-- 
Canada July Inflation Slows to 2.7% on Sales Tax, Mortgages

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-08-19T11:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/canada-july-inflation-slows-to-2-7-on-sales-tax-mortgages-1-.html
Canada ’s annual inflation rate
slowed for a second month in July as the impact of provincial
 sales tax  increases faded and mortgage interest costs declined.  The  consumer price index  increased 2.7 percent in July from
a year earlier,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa, slowing
from 3.1 percent in June and May’s 3.7 percent pace that was the
fastest since March 2003. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted a 2.8 percent reading according to the median of 23
responses. The inflation rate had been boosted over the past
year by sales-tax increases in Ontario and British Columbia.  The core inflation rate, which excludes eight volatile
items such as gasoline, quickened to a 1.6 percent pace from
June’s 1.3 percent, matching economist forecasts.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  testifies at a special
legislative hearing at 10 a.m. in Ottawa and may speak about the
economic impact of the U.S. debt-rating cut and increasing
concern that European governments may default on their bonds.
Last month, Carney kept the bank’s key interest rate at 1
percent while raising his inflation forecast and saying the
policy rate would rise as the economy recovered.  “There is a slowdown in the Canadian economy but a lot of
it is only temporary,” said  Rudy Narvas , senior economist with
Societe Generale SA in  New York . “Economic activity is still
pushing up inflation,” he said.  Prices Curbing Spending  Inflation stayed above Carney’s 2 percent target for an
eighth month in July, as gasoline prices rose 23.5 percent from
a year earlier and automobile insurance premiums rose 4.4
percent. Those price increases are curbing  consumer spending 
elsewhere according to Robert Dutton, Chief Executive Officer of
home-improvement retailer Rona Inc.  “Discretionary spending continued to be impacted by
inflation in gas, the intention to reduce the level of debt and
uncertainty about global economic conditions,” Dutton said on
an Aug. 10 investor call.  Besides the impact of sales tax increases dropping out of
this month’s report, inflation was slowed by a 1.9 percent
decline in mortgage interest costs and a 1 percent fall in new
automobile prices, Statistics Canada said.  The Bank of Canada raised its forecast for inflation July
20, saying consumer price increases will average 2.8 percent
from July through September and slow to 1.9 percent in the
second quarter of next year.  Currency Moves  The Canadian dollar reached the strongest in more than
three years before last month’s inflation report on speculation
the  Bank of Canada  would increase its policy interest rate this
year. The central bank’s statement at its July 19 rate
announcement dropped the word “eventually” from a phrase about
when policy makers will move.  The currency traded at 99.07 cents versus the U.S. currency
at 7:06 a.m. in Toronto, compared with 99.05 cents yesterday,
when it touched 99.39 cents, the weakest level since Aug. 11.
One Canadian dollar buys $1.0094.  Some investors are now betting on a rate cut at the next
policy meeting Sept. 7, according to a Credit Suisse calculation
based on trading in overnight index swaps contracts. Desjardins
Capital Markets economics strategist Jimmy Jean yesterday said
the Bank of Canada won’t raise  interest rates  until mid-2013, in
part because the U.S. Federal Reserve said it would likely keep
interest rates close to zero until that time.  Canada’s 30-year government yield fell below 3 percent
yesterday, matching a drop in U.S. Treasury yields to record
lows, in a sign that investors see slower growth and inflation.  On a monthly basis, overall consumer prices and the core
measure both rose 0.2 percent in July from June, today’s report
said, matching economist forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 