-- 
Canadian Currency Rises as Carney Reiterates Second-Half Growth Outlook

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-19T21:23:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/canadian-currency-rises-as-carney-reiterates-second-half-growth-outlook.html
Canada ’s dollar was little changed
versus the greenback as Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
reiterated that growth will accelerate in the second half of the
year.  The loonie, as the currency is also known, was mixed
against its most-traded counterparts tracked by Bloomberg after
crude oil pared losses and a government report showed a measure
of inflation increased in July. The yield on the 10-year
government bond rose from a record low touched yesterday.  “The market keyed on the fact that there was less talk of
potential easing, which the market seemed to have priced in,”
said Matt Perrier, director of currency sales at Bank of
Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit in Toronto. “Hikes aren’t
imminent, but there was no hint of easing.”  The Canadian dollar traded at 99.01 cents versus the U.S.
currency at 5:20 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 99.05 cents
yesterday, when it touched 99.39 cents, the weakest level since
Aug. 11. One Canadian dollar buys $1.010. The loonie lost 0.3
percent this week.  Government bonds  were little changed, with the yield on the
10-year bond rising less than one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.30 percent after falling yesterday to a
record low 2.25 percent. The price of the 3.25 percent security
maturing in June 2021 dropped 4 cents to C$108.26.  Carney said in his statement to the House of Commons
Finance Committee in Ottawa that growth will gain momentum in
the second half, “led by business investment and household
expenditures.”  Carney Outlook  “Governor Carney still expects domestic demand to propel a
bounce in the latter half of the year,” Peter Buchanan and
Emanuella Enenajor, economists at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit, wrote in a research report.
“So, absent a sudden deterioration in global activity exceeding
already downbeat expectations, a rate cut this year is likely
off the table.”  Carney said “several downside risks” have been realized
since his July 19 decision to keep the bank’s main lending rate
at 1 percent, including a deepening of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis and “the persistent strength of the Canadian dollar.”  Core inflation , which excludes eight volatile items
including gasoline, quickened last month to a 1.6 percent annual
pace, compared with 1.3 percent in June,  Statistics Canada  said
today. That matched economists’ forecast.  “There’s no doubt there’s a little bit of creeping
inflation in Canada,” Firas Askari, the head currency trader at
Bank of Montreal, said by phone from Toronto, referring to the
inflation data. “Generally it’s better for the Canadian
dollar.”  Bank of Canada policy makers have left their benchmark rate
at 1 percent since September. Canadian employers slowed their
pace of  job creation , cut back on wage increases and reduced
purchases in July, reports showed this month.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told lawmakers today strains
in the U.S. and Europe haven’t derailed a plan to balance the
budget by 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  