-- 
Canada Rebound After Weak Second Quarter Tops Agenda for Carney, Flaherty

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-08-19T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/canada-rebound-after-weak-second-quarter-tops-agenda-for-carney-flaherty.html
Canada ’s economic policy makers may
try to bolster investor confidence by telling lawmakers a global
slump and market turmoil won’t derail a recovery in the world’s
ninth-largest economy.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  and Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  will appear before a special parliamentary committee
hearing, starting at 9 a.m. New York time, on the potential
effects of the European debt crisis and U.S. fiscal woes.
Canadian stocks sank yesterday and  government bonds  rallied,
pushing yields to record lows, amid growing concern the global
economy is slowing.  While acknowledging Canada’s economy may have stalled in
the second quarter, Carney and Flaherty will likely cite
temporary factors for the slump and highlight the country’s
strengths, including spending by companies such as  Suncor Energy
Inc. (SU)  to develop the country’s oil reserves, said  Paul Ferley ,
assistant chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada.  “Do they still sound fairly confident about activity
bouncing back in the third quarter?” said Ferley. “My
assumption is they will.” He projects growth will recover to a
3.4 percent annualized pace in the July-September period,
following growth of 0.5 percent in the second quarter.  Commodity prices are “still historically high” even after
recent declines, which should support “stronger capital
expenditure relative to most other industrialized economies,”
Ferley said in a telephone interview from Toronto.  Investment Spending Higher  Calgary-based Suncor, the country’s largest energy company,
plans to spend C$6.7 billion ($6.8 billion) on investments this
year, up from C$5.8 billion in 2010, while  Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the second largest and also based in Calgary,
plans as much as C$6.6 billion of spending, up from C$5.3
billion last year, according to Bloomberg data.  Carney and Flaherty “are probably going to give a State of
the Union,” said Murray Mullen, chief executive officer of
Okotoks, Alberta-based Mullen Group Ltd., an oilfield services
and trucking company. “Here’s the reality, here’s the facts,
Canada is probably going to be okay.”  Lawmakers on the committee say they want Flaherty to
elaborate on comments made last weekend, when he said a
recession may lead him to consider adding additional stimulus.  “We’d like to hear from the minister and the governor of
the  Bank of Canada  what they think the impact is going to be,”
said Peggy Nash, the spokeswoman for the opposition  New
Democrats  on finance issues, by telephone. “Are there fiscal
projections going forward going to be changed? What alternatives
are they looking at to best buffer Canada?”  Risks ‘Intensified’  Carney hasn’t spoken publicly since July 20, when the
central bank issued  a forecast  that growth had slowed to 1.5
percent in the second quarter, before accelerating to 2.8
percent in the third quarter and 2.9 percent in the fourth
quarter. At the time, Carney said risks to the Canadian outlook
had “intensified,” including “sovereign debt concerns in
 Europe .”  U.S. jobless claims climbed by 9,000 yesterday to 408,000
in the week ended Aug. 13, the highest level in a month, while
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index plunged to minus 30.7, the lowest level since March 2009.
Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for global growth this year to
3.9 percent from 4.2 percent.  Carney won’t be “doom and gloom” today, said  Michael Gregory , senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto,
even though the central banker is likely to acknowledge some of
the risks he identified are materializing. “I think everyone
understands completely that the Canadian economy is performing
OK, despite everything.”  Stocks, Bond Yields Plunge  Investors may not be easily convinced. The benchmark
S&P/TSX composite index fell 3.1 percent yesterday on concerns
that global growth may be slowing more than anticipated, and
Canada’s 10- and 30-year bond yields touched record lows.  Economists had already been shaving their forecasts for
second-quarter growth after reports over the past month showed
Canada’s economy weakening from refinery shutdowns and supply
disruptions related to natural disasters in  Japan . The economy
expanded at a 0.2 percent annualized pace in the quarter, down
from 3.9 percent in the first quarter, according to the median
estimate of five economists surveyed this week by Bloomberg.
 Statistics Canada  reports gross domestic product for the second
quarter Aug. 31 at 8:30 a.m. New York time.  Temporary Slowdown  A temporary slowdown in company spending may exacerbate the
slump. Investments by companies that have reported earnings
since July 11 rose 22 percent in the latest quarter from a year
earlier, down from a 34 percent year-over-year rate the previous
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. Oil and
gas spending, which accounts for about half of the total,
increased 6 percent, down from 34 percent in the prior quarter.  Business investment, which makes up about 18 percent of
GDP, accounted for almost all of the country’s growth in the
first quarter, along with a build-up in inventories.  Spring breakup, when wet weather prevents rigs from working
in marshy western Canadian fields, lasted longer than usual this
year because of late snowfall. Wildfires also swept across
northern  Alberta , the biggest energy-producing province. That
may augur well for a stronger third quarter as companies rush to
make up for delays.  Some  capital spending  “was deferred because of the fires
and the floods slowing down access,” Jason Fleury, investor
relations manager at Calgary-based Penn West Petroleum Ltd.,
said in a telephone interview. “It delayed it somewhat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  