-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Rises After Market’s Low Prices Lure Buyers

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-08-19T19:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/canadian-natural-gas-rises-after-market-s-low-prices-lure-buyers.html
Canadian natural gas rose as traders
took advantage of earlier low prices triggered by forecasts for
low economic growth and weakening demand for air-conditioning
powered by the fuel.  Prices, which usually follow their U.S. counterparts on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , increased 1.6 percent as MDA
EarthSat Weather of Gaithersburg, Maryland, predicted
temperatures would be normal across the U.S. Northeast though
next week and over most of the country outside the Southwest by
month’s end.  “Right now what you see is just taking advantage of that
price,” Eric Bickel, an analyst at Summit Energy Services Inc.
in Louisville,  Kentucky , said in a telephone interview. The
longer term trend is for “the market staying pretty low” as
the weather cools and no large storms threaten production,
Bickel said.  Alberta gas for September delivery gained 5.25 cents to
C$3.425 per gigajoule ($3.28 per million British thermal units)
as of 3 p.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX , a Canadian
Internet market. October gas added 4.75 cents to $3.42. Gas
traded on the exchange goes to users in  Canada  and the U.S. and
is priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  In New York, natural gas for September delivery rose 4.8
cents to settle at $3.94 per million Btu.  Global Growth  Global economic growth will be 3.9 percent this year, below
the prior 4.2 percent estimate, Morgan Stanley said yesterday,
citing an “insufficient” policy response to  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  Power plants  use 30 percent of U.S. gas supplies, according
to the Energy Department.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.5 billion cubic
feet as of 1:30 p.m. in New York.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.81 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the  Chicago  area, the
daily flow rate was 2.01 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.39 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.36 billion cubic feet today, about 50
percent of its capacity of 2.58 billion.  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near Chicago
fell 0.6 cent, or 0.2 percent, to $4.0924 per million Btu as of
1:25 p.m. New York time on the Intercontinental Exchange.
Alliance is an express line that can carry 1.5 billion cubic
feet a day to the Midwest from western Canada.  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, gas declined 2.08 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $3.8168.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  