-- 
Capmark’s $4 Billion Reorganization Plan Wins Court Approval

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-08-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/capmark-financial-wins-approval-of-reorganization-plan-worth-4-billion.html
Capmark Financial Group Inc., the
commercial lender once a part of General Motors Corp., persuaded
a judge to let it exit bankruptcy by giving creditors cash,
stock and new debt worth a total of almost $4 billion.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross said he would sign an
order approving the plan next week after attorneys make minor
wording changes to the documents.  After almost two years in bankruptcy, the company will
reorganize around its Utah-based bank and will be owned by
creditors, including unsecured noteholders and lenders. Those
creditors voted overwhelmingly in favor of the plan, attorney
Thomas Moers Mayer, who represented the official committee of
unsecured creditors, said.  “Everyone is pleased with the result,” Capmark’s
bankruptcy attorney Michael P. Kessler said in an interview
after yesterday’s hearing in Wilmington,  Delaware . “It was an
extremely complicated case.”  Capmark, based in Horsham,  Pennsylvania , became partly
owned by affiliates of New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
when the bank and a group of investors bought 78 percent of
Capmark, then called GMAC Commercial Mortgage, in 2006 for $1.5
billion in cash and the repayment of $7.3 billion of debt.  Cash, New Debt  Under the plan, creditors will split $900 million in cash,
new debt securities of $1.25 billion and stock in the
reorganized company, estimated to be worth about $1.83 billion.
The company may implement the plan, and pay the creditors, by
Sept. 30, Kessler said.  While in bankruptcy, Capmark sold its loan-servicing unit
to  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and Leucadia
National Corp. in a deal valued at $468 million.  The creditors committee also battled with Goldman Sachs
over how to handle so-called insider preference claims --
lawsuits sometimes brought against company insiders, including
equity holders, accused of wrongly taking money from the company
in the months before the bankruptcy filing.  The right to file any insider claims passes to the new
company, under the plan.  “It was clear that it was an extremely intricate case,”
said Gross, who presided over the hearing because U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  wasn’t available.  The case is In re Capmark Financial Group Inc., 09-13684,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Farr  at   sfarr@bloomberg.net . 