-- 
Icahn Seeks to Join Clorox Board, Install 10 Directors After Bid Rejected

-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n
-- 
2011-08-19T14:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/carl-icahn-seeks-to-join-clorox-board-elect-10-others-after-bid-rejected.html
Carl Icahn , whose $10.7 billion
takeover bid for  Clorox Co. (CLX)  was rejected last month, is seeking
to install himself and 10 others on the company’s board.  Icahn, Clorox’s largest investor with a 9.4 percent stake,
said today in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission that he’ll appear at the Oakland, California-based
company’s annual meeting. Clorox hasn’t scheduled a date yet for
the meeting.  The billionaire investor raised his takeover offer on July
20 after the maker of the namesake bleach rejected his earlier
bid of about $10.2 billion. Icahn has urged Clorox to seek
offers from strategic buyers including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and
 Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  and said he may split up the company if he
completed an acquisition.  “What remains unclear is what Icahn proposes to improve
Clorox, and we encourage him to take every occasion to make that
abundantly clear if he truly wants shareholder support,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said today in
an e-mail. ” Dibadj, who is based in  New York , has a “market
perform” rating on the shares.  Clorox rose $1.06, or 1.7 percent, to $65.18 at 10:10 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had
gained 1.3 percent this year before today.  Icahn’s ‘Agenda’  “Mr. Icahn is nominating candidates solely to advance his
own agenda,” Clorox said today in a statement. “Clorox will
review Mr. Icahn’s nominations to ensure they comply with the
company’s governing documents and applicable law.”  This week, Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., under pressure
from Icahn to shift strategy, agreed to sell itself to Google
Inc. for $12.5 billion. Yesterday, Forest Laboratories Inc. won
the support of shareholders against Icahn’s attempt to
restructure the board at the drugmaker.  Clorox on July 18 adopted a shareholder rights plan against
a takeover. The company’s products include Glad trash bags,
Fresh Step cat litter, Burt’ Bees skin-care products, Kingsford
charcoal and Green Works natural cleansers.  To contact the reporter for this story:
James Callan at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 