-- 
Carney and Flaherty Still See Canada Growth After Stall in Second Quarter

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-08-19T17:25:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/carney-and-flaherty-still-see-canada-growth-after-stall-in-second-quarter.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
told lawmakers the Canadian economy stalled or shrank last
quarter, sharing with Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  the view
that growth will rebound without further government stimulus.  “Recent Canadian data has been consistent with minimal to
slightly negative growth in the second quarter,” Carney said
today in Ottawa, compared with his July 20 forecast that gross
domestic product grew at a 1.5 percent annual pace from April
through June. “The Bank continues to expect that growth will
accelerate in the second half of the year, led by business
investment and household expenditures.”  Flaherty said strains in the U.S. and Europe haven’t
derailed his fiscal projections for this year or a plan to
balance the budget by the fiscal year beginning April 2014,
adding that major new spending plans would be “precisely the
wrong direction” for  Canada  to go.  Canadian government bond yields reached record lows this
week and investors canceled bets that Carney would raise his
policy interest rate from 1 percent on signs that slower
European and U.S. growth will curb exports. Carney and Flaherty
spoke to a special session of the House of Commons Finance
Committee called after the U.S. lost its top  credit rating  and
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis deepened.  ‘Much Tamer Rebound’  “ Monetary policy  and fiscal policy can work together right
now in a way that it can’t in the U.S. and that keeps us
optimistic” about Canada’s recovery, said Stefane Marion, chief
economist at National Bank Financial Group in  Montreal . “It
will be a much tamer rebound” because of events abroad, said
Marion, who predicts Carney won’t raise  interest rates  until
mid-2012.  The Canadian dollar rose 0.5 percent to 98.56 cents versus
the U.S. currency at 12:33 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 99.05
cents yesterday, when it touched 99.39 cents, the weakest level
since Aug. 11. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0146. Bond prices
were modestly lower, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year
government bond rising 1 basis point to 2.31 percent, after
hitting a record low 2.25 percent yesterday.  While Flaherty didn’t give an estimate for second-quarter
economic growth, he said that strong business investment is
needed for a “sustainable” recovery.  Investments by companies that have reported earnings since
July 11 rose 22 percent in the latest quarter from a year
earlier, down from a 34 percent year-over-year rate the previous
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Spending Plans  Calgary-based  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , the country’s largest
energy company, plans to spend C$6.7 billion on investments this
year, up from C$5.8 billion in 2010, while Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd., the second-largest and also based in Calgary,
plans as much as C$6.6 billion of spending, up from C$5.3
billion last year, according to Bloomberg data.  Governments in the U.S. and Europe “will require difficult
and bold action,” Flaherty said, “to instill confidence in a
prolonged recovery.” Recent European calls for a tax on
financial transactions are a distraction from the need to
balance budgets and “Canada will continue to oppose” the idea,
Flaherty said.  Opposition members of Parliament focused their questions on
the need for new stimulus spending in Canada.  Scott Brison  of
the  Liberal Party  asked if Flaherty had a plan should the global
economy keep worsening and New Democratic Party lawmakers asked
if new spending on public works projects is needed now to create
jobs.  “We should at least lay out for Canadians the possibility
of recession in the U.S. and Europe, and lay out what the plan
for Canada would be in the event of that recession,” Brison
told reporters after the hearing.  No ‘Draconian’ Cuts  While rejecting major new spending plans, Flaherty told
lawmakers he won’t make “draconian” spending cuts.  “If we were to see the situation globally deteriorate in a
dramatic way, we would obviously do what is needed to protect
our jobs and economy and families in Canada,” Flaherty said.  Carney said the central bank continues to expect the U.S.
and European economies to keep growing. He didn’t say directly
if or when he would change the bank’s policy lending rate.  Carney said “several downside risks” have been realized
since his  July 19 decision  to keep the bank’s main lending rate
at 1 percent, including a deepening of  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis and “the persistent strength of the Canadian dollar.”  There are a “wide range of tools” available to support
growth and ensure market liquidity if needed, Carney said,
adding that the bank will also “take the necessary steps to
ensure that core funding markets remain liquid.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 