-- 
Centrica, Siemens Seek Loans for 1 Billion-Pound U.K. Wind Deal

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-08-19T13:32:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/centrica-siemens-seek-banks-for-1-7-billion-u-k-wind-financing.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) ,  Siemens AG (SIE)  and Dong
Energy A/S invited commercial banks to join a 1 billion-pound
($1.7 billion) financing plan to build an offshore U.K. wind
farm, the first deal of its kind in the country.  The figure includes a 550 million-pound  term loan  and a 250
million-pound facility to pay for a link to bring the power to
shore, according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News.  The companies’ use of commercial loans and their own funds,
instead of state financing, to construct the 270-megawatt Lincs
project off east  England  sets a precedent, said Jerome Guillet,
managing director of Green Giraffe Energy Bankers of Paris.  It would be the first time banks provided project finance
loans to build a U.K. offshore farm, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance research. The government is betting that the
technology will help the nation to meet a European Union goal of
generating 15 percent of energy from renewable sources by 2020.
Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ is an adviser on the transaction.  “Lincs is receiving pre-construction project finance,
rather than refinancing a seasoned asset,” Fraser Johnston, an
offshore wind analyst at New Energy Finance, said by e-mail.
“The banks therefore take on some of the construction risk.”  Centrica will offer a total of 333.3 million pounds for the
funding facilities and  Dong Energy  166.7 million pounds, while
Siemens plans to contribute 75 million pounds through its
 Siemens Financial Services Ltd.  arm. The companies invited banks
to provide the balance of the financing for the project, which
will power 200,000 U.K. homes a year.  Borrowing Costs  Centrica, based in Windsor, England, owns  50 percent  of the
park, with Siemens and  Denmark ’s Dong Energy dividing the rest.  “The main advantage for them in doing this is to reduce
the volume they need from the banking market,” Guillet said.
They will lend to the project using internal resources including
corporate borrowing, in addition to providing equity, he said.  “It will create a precedent for  project financing ,
including a fairly aggressive structure for the non-recourse
debt,” Guillet said by e-mail, referring to loans that banks
can recoup from the project’s cash flow but not the developers.  With the companies acting as “sponsor lenders,” the wind
farm won’t need to use funds from the  European Investment Bank 
or a guarantee facility from the EKF, Denmark’s export credit
agency, according to the term sheet.  Offshore wind projects, among the most expensive of the
renewable-energy technologies, are typically the domain of
utilities with balance sheets able to bear the cost.  Group of Eight  Corporate borrowing has become more attractive as its cost
falls faster than project finance, according to the term sheet.
The funding envisages six to eight banks loaning amounts of 50
million pounds or 75 million pounds, it said. The parties plan
to close the transaction in October, according to the terms,
which were revised from an earlier version released August 2010.  Siemens declined to comment on the financing plans in an e-
mailed reply to queries. Dong referred questions to Centrica,
which said only that the companies were “committed to funding
the full cost of the project even in the event that project
finance is not available,” while declining to elaborate.  Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi also wouldn’t comment.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  