-- 
Chelsea Willing to Spend $99 Million on Mata, Modric: Roundup

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-08-19T09:27:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/chelsea-willing-to-spend-99-million-on-mata-modric-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Double Swoop  Chelsea’s billionaire owner Roman Abramovich is willing to
spend 60 million pounds ($99 million) to sign Valencia winger
Juan Mata and Tottenham midfielder Luka Modric, the  Daily Mail 
 reported .  Chelsea has already had bids rejected for both players and
is now upping its initial 22 million-pound bid for Mata to 29
million pounds, the newspaper said. New manager Andre Villas- Boas has also persuaded Abramovich to “dig deep” for Modric,
the Mail added.  Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy in June said Modric is not
for sale “at any price” after Chelsea’s bid for the player
became public.  Diarra Deal  Tottenham is close to completing a deal for Real Madrid
midfielder Lassana Diarra, the  Daily Mail  said.  Diarra played under  Harry Redknapp  at Portsmouth and the
Spurs manager hopes to have the 26-year-old training with the
club within days, the Mail said.  A loan move is possible or Spurs may offer about 14 million
pounds, the newspaper said. Chairman  Daniel Levy  must also find
a way to meet Diarra’s wage demands, which are currently more
than 100,000 pounds per week, the Mail said.  Hargreaves Fitness  West Brom manager  Roy Hodgson  is confident former
Manchester United midfielder Owen Hargreaves would pass a full
medical if he were to agree to join the Midlands team, the
Guardian  reported .  Albion was the first team to get in touch with Hargeaves
after his release from United, where he was limited to 39
appearances in four years because of injuries.  “We believe he’s capable of playing top-flight football
again and we’re very interested in him,” Hodgson was quoted as
saying in the Guardian.  ‘Publicity Stunt’  West Ham has labelled QPR’s 4 million-pound offer for
midfielder  Scott Parker  a “cheap publicity stunt”, the  Sun 
 reported .  The Hammers won’t accept less than 8 million pounds for
Parker, last season’s Footballer of the Year.  “It’s ridiculously low,” The Sun quoted West Ham co-owner
 David Sullivan  saying. “We see it as a cheap publicity stunt.”  QPR announced Malaysian businessman  Tony Fernandes  as its
new majority owner yesterday. He pledged there would be funds
available for manager Neil Warnock to strengthen the squad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  