-- 
Chile Central Bank Drops Language on More Increases in Keeping 5.25% Rate

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-08-19T18:20:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/chile-drops-language-on-future-increase-in-keeping-5-25-rate.html
Chile’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for the second straight month
yesterday as inflation slows and the international economic
outlook deteriorates.  The five-member board, led by bank President Jose De Gregorio, held the overnight rate at 5.25 percent, matching the
forecast of all 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yesterday’s interest-rate pause was the third by the
central bank this year, leaving Chile with the second-highest
real interest rate among  Latin America ’s five major inflation-
targeting central banks after  Brazil . Policy makers omitted
language seen in their statement last month on the possibility
of raising borrowing costs, saying future rate changes will
depend on economic conditions.  “They are opening the door for rate cuts if the external
scenario continues to deteriorate further,” Alex Pigatto, a
trader at Nomura Securities Inc., wrote in an e-mailed note
after yesterday’s decision.  Dropping language on raising rates was a “very important”
signal, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain, a non-voting
participant of yesterday’s meeting, told reporters in Santiago.  “The statement changes the slant to neutral,” he said
today. “A reduction is as likely as an increase in the future
compared with the previous slant, which leaned toward an
increase.”  Interest-Rate Swaps  Chile ’s one-year interest-rate swap fell as low as 4.88
percent yesterday, the lowest level in more than five months,
from 5.62 percent on July 14 when policy makers last met. Swaps,
which were trading at 4.76 percent as of 1:47 p.m. New York time
today, reflect traders’ views on future rate decisions.  Since Banco Central de Chile’s meeting last month, the
worsening of the global economy has pushed commodity prices
lower, reducing inflationary pressures in the $200 billion
economy, Juan Pablo Castro, chief economist at  Banco Santander 
in Santiago, said Aug. 17 in a telephone interview.  “The bank already has done its job, basically raising
interest rates to relatively neutral levels,” said Castro, who
correctly forecast yesterday’s pause.  The central bank in yesterday’s statement noted an economic
slowdown in the U.S., lower global commodity prices and
heightened concern about financial risk in  Europe .  Global Climate  “We believe that the deterioration of global financial
markets was the main driver behind this change in stance,”
Marcelo Salomon, an economist at Barclays Plc, said in a note e-
mailed to investors about cutting language on raising rates.  The U.S. on Aug. 5 had its AAA credit rating downgraded for
the first time by  Standard & Poor’s , and the U.S. Federal
Reserve on Aug. 9 pledged to keep rates at a record low through
at least mid-2013 to revive a recovery that it said has been
“considerably slower” than anticipated. Investor concern has
also mounted over debt sustainability in Europe.  Chile’s benchmark stock index, the IPSA Index, plunged 6.9
percent from Aug. 5 to 3,784.65 on Aug. 8, the first day of
trading after S&P announced the downgrade. The IPSA was trading
down 0.7 percent at 4,127.94.  The peso this month has declined 2.3 percent, the third-
worst performance against the dollar among Latin America’s
seven-most traded currencies after  Mexico ’s peso and Brazil’s
real. The peso closed up 0.4 percent today to 468.39 per  U.S.
dollar .  Rates Survey  “Recent events will probably make the central bank less
eager to hike,” Florencia Vazquez, an economist with BNP
Paribas, said in an Aug. 17 note to investors.  Traders and investors in a central bank survey published
Aug. 10 forecast that the bank will pause at least through
August 2013 while inflation holds at 3 percent. Annual inflation
in July slowed to 2.9 percent, below the central bank’s target
of 3 percent for the first time since February.  Monthly inflation eased to 0.1 percent in July from 0.2
percent in June and 0.4 percent in May on a decline in clothing,
transport and communication prices.  Inflation expectations have shown a “significant”
decline, the central bank said yesterday.  Economists surveyed by the central bank on Aug. 9 lowered
their annual inflation estimates for year-end to 3.6 percent
from 4 percent in the July 11 survey.  “News on the international front -- principally the fall
in the price of oil -- and the significant adjustments in
interest rates led to a strong decline in different measures of
inflation expectations,” central bank economists said in a
report published Aug. 17.  Commodity Prices  The price of crude oil has declined 15 percent in the last
month while Bloomberg’s commodity index, which calculates the
mean of indexes including energy, grains, food and metals, has
slipped 1.6 percent.  South America ’s fifth-biggest economy is experiencing a
reduction of inflationary pressures because of a drop in global
prices, higher interest rates and government efforts to cut
planned spending, Larrain told a conference today.  The moderation in domestic output growth and demand has
been slower than estimated in a June quarterly review, when
policy makers forecast economic growth of 6 percent to 7 percent
in 2011, the bank said yesterday.  Chile’s gross domestic product, which decelerated to 6.8
percent growth in the second quarter from 10 percent in the
first, will slow further to 5.3 percent in the three months
through September, according to the median estimate of 65
economists in the central bank poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  