-- 
China’s Stocks Extend Losses to Fifth Week on Concern About Global Growth

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-19T07:39:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/china-s-stocks-extend-losses-to-fifth-week-on-concern-about-global-growth.html
China ’s stocks fell, capping a fifth
week of losses for the benchmark index, after U.S. equities
plunged on concern the global economic slowdown is deepening and
analysts speculated the central bank may raise interest rates.  Jiangxi Copper Co. and China Shenhua Energy Co., the
nation’s producers of copper and coal, led a retreat for
commodity stocks after oil and metal prices slid. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest listed
lender, slumped the most in almost two weeks. Maanshan Iron and
Steel Co. fell 1.6 percent after first-half earnings declined.  “There will be a knee-jerk reaction to the global rout,
prompting some panic selling,” said  Zhang Ling , general manager
at Shanghai River Fund Management Co. “On the other hand, that
may force China to change its growth model to domestic
consumption from exports but that’ll be a long and painful
process.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 25.11 points, or 1 percent, to
2,534.36 at the 3 p.m. close. It fell 2.3 percent this week,
extending the longest streak of weekly losses since December
2010, on concern a slowing economy will damp corporate earnings.
The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 0.9 percent to 2,807.66 today.  The Shanghai gauge has dropped 9.7 percent this year as the
central bank raised interest rates five times and ordered
lenders to set aside more cash as deposit reserves 12 times
since the start of 2010 to contain inflation that quickened to
the fastest pace in three years last month. The measure is
valued at 11.6 times estimated earnings, the lowest since
Bloomberg began to track the data in 2006, according to weekly
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tight Policies  The rising yields of bills sold by China’s central bank
this week may indicate the monetary authorities will maintain a
tight policy stance and closely watch future inflation trends
before raising  interest rates , China Securities Journal reported
today, citing unidentified analysts.  One-year bill yields were higher than the one-year deposit
rate for three months before the People’s Bank of China raised
interest rates in July, according to the newspaper, operated by
the official Xinhua News Agency.  The central bank may announce an increase in interest rates
over the next few weeks, Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd.
said in a report today.  Leading Indicator  Increases in one-year bill yields have proven a good
leading indicator of interest-rate increases in China, Hong
Kong-based economists Sun Mingchun, Kevin Lai and Fei Xue wrote
in the report. Since 2007, the central bank has always raised
rates when the one-year yield exceeds the one-year deposit rate,
the economists wrote.  ICBC lost 1.2 percent to 4.13 yuan, the most since Aug. 8.
 China Construction Bank Corp. (601939) , the second-biggest lender, slid
1.8 percent to 4.49 yuan. Bank of Communications Co., part-owned
by HSBC Holdings Plc, fell 1.3 percent to 4.64 yuan after it
left open the possibility of raising more capital to meet
stricter rules,  Asian stock markets slid today with benchmark indexes in
 Japan , South Korea and  Taiwan  falling at least 2 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 4.5 yesterday after a report
showed that the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general
economic index plunged to minus 30.7 this month, the lowest
since March 2009. Another report showed that more Americans than
forecast filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week,
while the National Association of Realtors said that sales of
U.S. previously owned homes unexpectedly dropped in July.  Commodities Drop  Jiangxi Copper lost 2.1 percent to 31.88 yuan. Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd., the listed unit of nation’s biggest maker
of the lightweight metal and also called Chalco, retreated 1.4
percent to 9.13 yuan. Shenhua dropped 1.8 percent to 25.59 yuan.  Crude oil for September delivery plunged 5.9 percent to
settle at $82.38 a barrel in  New York  yesterday. The London
Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial metals
including copper and aluminum retreated 2.4 percent. Gold
futures rose 1.6 percent to a record in New York.  Maanshan Steel slid 1.6 percent to 2.99 yuan. China’s
fourth-largest listed steelmaker said profit dropped 70 percent
to 310 million yuan ($48.5 million) in the first six months
because of higher raw material costs.  China’s stocks may rebound as the slowing global economy
will spur the government to ease its policy tightening stance,
according to Industrial Securities Co.  Policy Easing  The current situation isn’t a “falling-over-the-cliff”
economic crisis like in 2008, Li Yanlin, an analyst at the
brokerage, wrote in a report today. Signs of “targeted
loosening” are emerging as China’s State Council has already
approved the expansion of a pilot program for credit asset
securitization for small companies, according to the report.  Investors should prepare for a stocks rebound as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may announce “big policy
moves” at the Aug. 26 Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , conference
including U.S. bond purchases of more than $600 billion, direct
asset buying by the central bank as well as a jobs stimulus
program, according to Societe Generale SA.  Citing the effect on markets from the so-called Q2 bond-
buying plan,  Todd Martin , Asia equity strategist at the French
bank, said that investors should buy “cheap”  growth stocks  in
China,  India  and  South Korea  along with “defensive, high-
yielding” equities, according to a note to clients.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics are scheduled to
release preliminary data for this month’s purchasing managers’
index at 10:30 a.m. on Aug. 23. The PMI fell to 49.3 last month,
below the 50-level expansion threshold.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  