-- 
Church Gossips, Nasty Secrets Turn ‘Tricks’ Into Cliches: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-08-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/church-gossips-nasty-secrets-turn-tricks-into-cliches-review.html
There’s no stage curtain at the
Minetta Lane Theatre. What hits you before you’ve even taken
your seat is a vision of hell, West Texas style.  Eli Kaplan-Wildmann’s brilliant, economical set for
“Tricks the Devil Taught Me” includes a couch upholstered in
what appears to be fallow dirt; a jumble of two-by-fours and
walls painted in psychedelic hues of desert sunset. Lighting by
the excellent Scott Davis adds a golden pink shimmer.  It’s quite an eye-popping frame for playwright Tony
Georges. If only his people didn’t babble so much inside this
fine set.  They are Betty (Beth Grant, tough and gnarly) and Don
(Peter Bradbury, tougher and gnarlier), who have suffered 22
years of marriage after she got pregnant. They are not, sad to
say, the Betty and Don of “Mad Men.” Their existential crises
owe more to “Ode to Billy Joe” than the men in the gray
flannel suits.  All the good gruesome, dark stuff came out in the final
minutes and, as far as I could tell, it bore no connection to
what came before.  There are two poisonous church ladies and a pudgy loser
(played with great panache by Jodie Lynne McClintock) who sings
“The Battle Hymn of the Republic” and a Latina seductress
(bravely essayed by Desiree Rodriguez). Lively Julie Jesneck and
TJ Linnard play the young Don and Betty. They are artlessly
dressed (by the gifted Asa Benally), like the set, in taste-free
Americana.  “Tricks the Devil Taught Me” refers to Mephistopheles’
inclination to turn the tables on people just when everything
seems to going right. Since nothing ever goes right for any of
these characters, the title is as puzzling as everything else
here.  At 18 Minetta Lane. Information: +1-800-982-2787;
 http://www.ticketmaster.com . Rating: (no stars)  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 