-- 
Citigroup Leads Firms in Purchasing $4.5 Billion of Leveraged-Loan Funds

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-08-19T14:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/citigroup-leads-firms-in-purchasing-4-5-billion-of-clo-funds.html
A  Citigroup Inc. (C)  unit and at least 
two other firms have purchased contracts to manage $4.5 billion 
of collateralized loan obligations this month as prices of the 
debt fell by 6.1 percent.  Citi Capital Advisors this week acquired the right to
oversee $2 billion of CLOs from DiMaio Ahmad Capital LLC.
Private-equity firm  Carlyle Group  and Ares Management LLC are
amongst companies that have bought contracts to manage $54
billion of such funds since 2010, according to Barclays Plc
data.  CLO managers are buying smaller rivals to expand as issuance
of the securities is low. There have been $7 billion of funds
backed by widely syndicated loans arranged this year, compared
with $91.1 billion in 2007, according to Bloomberg and Morgan
Stanley data. CLOs may be subject to rules proposed by the Dodd-
Frank Act that could effectively shut down the market for the
debt and lead to more consolidation.  “You had large managers that weren’t issuing CLOs that
wanted to grow and were willing to deploy capital to take over
other managers and increase their scale,” Matt Natcharian, head
of the structured credit team at Babson Capital Management LLC,
said in a telephone interview.  Citi Capital Advisors said it had acquired four CLOs worth
$2 billion from investment manager DiMaio Ahmad, also known as
DA Capital, according to an Aug. 16 news release. Last week
Carlyle purchased a $500 million fund from  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s
Foothill Group Inc. unit and Ares Management bought Indicus
Advisors, which oversees more than $2 billion in assets in CLOs
and other credit funds in both the U.S. and  Europe . Apollo
Global Management LLC and Resource Capital Corp. have also made
acquisitions this year.  CLO Consolidation  With these purchases, the largest managers continue to get
bigger. There were $297.1 billion of U.S. CLOs as of Dec. 31,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. The top 10 managers held
$94 billion of those assets, according to a January report from
the ratings company. In 2007 at its peak there were 136 CLO
managers and that number has shrunk to 111 as of a July 14
report from Citigroup.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  New risk-retention rules proposed by the Dodd-Frank Act
would force lenders to hold at least a 5 percent stake in debt
they package or sell. If CLOs are subjected to this proposal the
market for the securities might shut down, according to the Loan
Syndications and Trading Association.  Ending ‘CLO Formation’  Speaking before the House Subcommittee on Capital Markets
in April, Bram Smith, the executive director of the New York-
based LSTA, said the rules could “basically end CLO formation
entirely.” The trade association contends that most CLOs are
independent investors and should be exempted from the provision.  “I think that for a long time managers were unwilling to
consider selling their firms because they believed that they
would be successful raising money during the crisis or after the
crisis,”  Christopher Allen , senior managing director and co-
founder of New York-based Apidos Capital Management LLC, said in
a telephone interview.  Apidos, a unit of Resource, is “routinely evaluating
situations in the market,” Allen said. He declined to comment
on any specific transactions.  ‘Self Interest’  In order to raise a fund in 2010, most managers were
required to provide the riskiest portion of debt, also known as
the equity slice, themselves, Allen said. A smaller manager not
associated with a larger firm was probably not able to do that
and wouldn’t have been able to raise a fund.  “Faced with this situation, a lot of managers realized it
was in their economic self interest to sell,” he said.  The new-issue CLO market has largely stayed closed to those
not among the largest managers, limiting the prospects for
future growth for other firms.  “If you don’t have committed equity, you are not going to
be a CLO issuer, it’s that simple,” Brad Rogoff, head of U.S.
credit strategy at  Barclays Capital , the investment banking unit
of Barclays, in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Banks issued more than $3.4 billion of CLOs backed by
widely syndicated loans in the U.S. last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That is more than double the $1.22
billion issued in 2009, according to Morgan Stanley data.  Growth Estimates  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said it maintains its estimate of $10
billion to $15 billion of CLO issuance this year, according to
an Aug. 12 report. “Given the current volatility it’s
increasingly unlikely the higher end of our forecast will be
reached,” analysts wrote.  Leveraged loan prices have been falling after  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. and the  Federal Reserve  said it is
prepared to use a range of policy tools to support the economy  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index, which tracks
the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans,
fell to 88.2 cents on the dollar on Aug. 11, which was the
lowest since July 13, 2010.  The measure was at 88.69 cents
yesterday.  The price of the slices of debt that make up CLOs have also
fallen, with BBB rated-debt hitting 68 cents Aug. 11 from a high
this year of 81 cents in February, according to Morgan Stanley
data. AAA rated-debt dropped to 93 cents Aug. 11 from 96 cents
in May and June, the highest level since December 2007,
according to the data.  “When the market was closed, you had some smaller managers
worried about their ability to grow their business and support a
full staff,” Babson’s Natcharian said. As credit has
deteriorated further “the prospects for future growth began to
fall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  