-- 
Citigroup’s Sharma Said to Be Planning Departure to Start Own Hedge Fund

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-08-20T00:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/citigroup-s-sharma-said-to-be-planning-departure-to-start-own-hedge-fund.html
Sutesh Sharma, who heads a team of
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  proprietary traders, intends to leave the company
and start a hedge fund, two people familiar with the plan said.  Sharma, 48, has held discussions with potential investors
about raising money for his own firm, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the information is private. Sharma,
who’s based in London and leads the bank’s Principal Strategies
unit, may be joined at the fund by members of his team, two
people briefed on the moves said.  Citigroup executives have been discussing what to do with
the company’s proprietary traders since last year, when the  U.S.
Congress  approved legislation that restricts banks from using
their own money to wager on securities and markets. The change,
which hasn’t yet taken effect, was advocated by  Paul Volcker .
The former Federal Reserve chairman said banks backed by U.S.
deposit insurance shouldn’t be allowed to speculate. Sharma’s
team manages about $2 billion, one of the people said.  “Even though the rule itself doesn’t go into effect for at
least another year, you’d be crazy not to start thinking about
moving elsewhere,” said Charles Whitehead, an associate
professor of law at Cornell Law School in Ithaca,  New York .  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, met
with Sharma this month to discuss his plans, one person said.
The New York-based bank was considering moving Sharma and his
team to a division that manages money mostly for outside
investors. Sharma decided he’d rather run his own multi-strategy
hedge fund, a choice the bank supports, one of the people said.
The fund would be started next year.  Toby Lingard  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment. Sharma didn’t respond to e-mails seeking
comment.  Sharma and Toby Lingard, who also works for Citigroup’s
Principal Strategies unit, registered a firm last month called
Portman Square Capital LLP, according to a July 14 filing with
the U.K.’s Companies House. Lingard, 36, declined to comment.  Sharma’s career has tracked Pandit’s for years, after they
joined Morgan Stanley in the 1980s and later worked together at
Pandit’s hedge fund, Old Lane Partners LP. At New York-based
Morgan Stanley, Sharma became head of global proprietary
trading, and Pandit rose to lead sales, trading and  investment
banking .  Pandit quit in 2005 following a dispute with Morgan
Stanley’s then-CEO, Philip Purcell, and formed Old Lane, a
multi-strategy fund. Citigroup bought the fund in 2007 for $800
million in a deal that eventually led to Pandit becoming CEO of
the bank in December 2007. Some of Sharma and Pandit’s other ex-
Morgan Stanley and Old Lane colleagues have also worked in the
Principal Strategies unit.  Traders Leaving  Traders have been leaving banks to start or join  hedge
funds  after U.S. lawmakers approved the Dodd-Frank Act last
year. The law, which includes the Volcker provision, increased
oversight of  Wall Street  in response to the worst economic slump
since the Great Depression.  Pierre-Henri Flamand stepped down in 2010 as head of a
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  unit that traded equities to start
Edoma Partners LLP. Karl Devine, Andrew Dausch and Brad Lord,
three traders who worked for Goldman Sachs’s global macro
proprietary desk, left this year to join Brevan Howard Asset
Management LP after the New York-based bank decided to shut down
the unit. London-based Brevan Howard is  Europe ’s second-biggest
hedge fund, with $32.6 billion under management.  The Fed said in February that banks would have two years to
comply once the rule takes effect.  Citigroup “has every incentive to go ahead and take it up
to the very last moment if they’re making great returns,”
Whitehead said. “But if you’re running the group, why would you
want to stick around until the very last second?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  