-- 
Colombia May Raise Rate for Seventh Month to Check Credit Surge

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-08-19T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/colombia-may-raise-rate-for-seventh-month-to-check-credit-surge.html
Colombia ’s central bank will likely
boost borrowing costs today for a seventh straight month as the
need to contain surging credit outweighs concern that global
market turmoil may spread to the Andean nation.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
will increase the overnight rate by a quarter point to 4.75
percent, according to 21 of 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Fourteen analysts expect the bank to pause. The bank will
announce its decision after 12 p.m. New York time.  Policy makers last month voiced concern that bank lending
was rising faster than the pace of economic expansion in “a
context of historically low real  interest rates .” At the same
time, growth in  South America ’s fourth-biggest economy jumped
the most since 2007 in the first quarter, leading the bank to
forecast 2011 growth of as much as 6.5 percent.  “The global market uncertainty will be taken into account
and may increase the prospect of a pause, but credit and
economy’s dynamism will be what the bank is really focusing
on,” said Diego Camacho, an economist at Bogota-based Acciones
de Colombia SA, who expects a rate increase this month and next.  Since the  board  met last month, global markets have
tumbled as the European debt crisis and  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of  U.S. debt  have shaken investor confidence in a
worldwide recovery. That has raised the possibility of a pause
this month, said Bank of America Merrill Lynch in a note to
investors Aug. 15 and  Barclays Capital  on Aug. 12.  “Any new significant event that could signal further
deterioration of the global economic situation could increase
the risk of a preventive pause in the tightening cycle,”
Barclays said.  Regional Response  Peru ’s central bank kept its benchmark rate unchanged for a
third month on Aug. 12, citing rising global risks, and Banco
Central de Chile held its benchmark rate at 5.25 percent last
night. Colombia’s policy makers have raised by 150 basis points
in 2011, the third most among the inflation targeting central
banks in  Latin America  after Chile and  Brazil .  While inflation in Colombia remains within the bank’s 2
percent to 4 percent target range, the annual rate rose to a
two-year high of 3.42 percent in July and the bulk of the
board’s members expressed concern about a rapid expansion of
domestic demand.  Gross domestic product expanded 5.1 percent in the first
quarter from the same period a year earlier, higher than the
median forecast of 4.8 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 27
economists. GDP last rose faster in the fourth quarter of 2007,
when the economy grew 8.1 percent year on year.  ‘Most Complex’ Decision  Economists covering the Colombian economy maintained their
2011 inflation forecast at 3.3 percent, according to a central
bank  survey  of 39 economists published last week. They expect
inflation to slow to 0.13 percent this month from 0.14 percent
in July.  The same survey also showed that economists expect policy
makers to raise the benchmark rate to 5 percent by year-end,
according to the average estimate in the survey.  Minutes  of the central bank’s July 29 meeting showed one
board member disagreed with the move to raise borrowing costs to
4.5 percent, noting that higher rates could lead to more dollar
inflows and a further expansion of credit.  “Without doubt, the bank’s decision will be one of the
most complex since it started its gradual removal of monetary
stimulus, considering the uncertainty in external markets,”
said Daniel Velandia, head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage
Correval SA, who expects the rate to be raised today.  The last two central bank meetings have resulted in split
decisions.  Inflows, Peso  One member of the board has pointed to the current U.S.-
Colombia yield gap as partly responsible for the increase in
external borrowing to an annual pace of 170 percent in May and
said additional rate increases would only attract more inflows.  Increased inflows into the economy have helped boost the
currency 7.4 percent this year, the best performance against the
dollar among the seven major Latin American currencies tracked
by Bloomberg, and Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry has
blamed “big” companies for the dollar flows as they borrow
abroad.  In an Aug. 8 interview with  Caracol Radio , Echeverry said
he telephoned companies to warn them that the stronger currency
is undermining the economy.  Some analysts expect the government to announce macro-
prudential measures that would help stem the flow of short-term
capital into the country. Exporters complain the strong currency
forces them to cut jobs as they receive fewer pesos for goods
such as flowers and coffee sold abroad.  Santos has echoed their concern, though he has ruled out
 capital controls  for now, instead calling for efforts to prevent
further strengthening.  Policy makers agreed to purchase “at least” $20 million
on the  spot market  through September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ; 