-- 
Colombia Unexpectedly Keeps 4.50% Interest Rate Amid Global Market Turmoil

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-08-19T21:47:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/colombia-unexpectedly-keeps-4-50-interest-rate-amid-global-market-turmoil.html
Colombia ’s central bank unexpectedly
kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged today for the first
time in seven months on concern that global market turmoil may
spread to the Andean nation.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
maintained the overnight rate at 4.50 percent, surprising 22 of
36 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Fourteen analysts had
expected the bank to pause. Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said the decision was unanimous after split decisions
in July and June.  “The board considered it prudent to pause in interest rate
increases, especially given the high uncertainty in
international financial markets and their potential negative
effect on the growth of the world economy in general, and
Colombia in particular,” Uribe  said  at the bank in Bogota.  Since the  board  met last month, global markets have tumbled
as the European debt crisis and  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of
 U.S. debt  shook investor confidence. Those developments raised
the possibility of a pause this month, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch and  Barclays Capital  said in notes to investors on Aug. 15
and Aug. 12 respectively. Both still expected a rate increase
today.  The central bank also maintained its economic growth
forecast for Colombia this year at 4.5 percent to 6.5 percent
and said inflation remains within in its target range.  ‘Preventive Pause’  Speaking after the bank’s decision, Uribe said Colombia’s
monetary policy is “flexible enough” to cope with fluctuations
in growth and inflation.  The U.S. on Aug. 5 had its AAA credit rating downgraded for
the first time by Standard & Poor’s, and the U.S. Federal
Reserve on Aug. 9 pledged to keep rates at a record low through
at least mid-2013 to revive a recovery that it said has been
“considerably slower” than anticipated. Investor concern has
also mounted over debt sustainability in  Europe .  Echeverry today said that a third round of quantitative
easing in U.S. would put further pressure on the peso. Uribe
said that the central bank isn’t happy with the strong peso and
would prefer a weaker peso.  “Today should not be considered the end of the tightening
cycle but simply a pause, giving more time for the Board to
assess the evolution of the global economic environment and its
consequences for the Colombian economy,” Paulo Leme, chief
Latin American economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in
an e-mailed research note..  Inflows  Minutes  of the central bank’s July 29 meeting showed one
board member disagreed with the move to raise borrowing costs to
4.5 percent, noting that higher rates could lead to more dollar
inflows and a further expansion of credit.  Banco Central de Reserva del  Peru  kept its benchmark rate
unchanged for a third month on Aug. 12, citing rising global
risks, and Banco Central de  Chile  held its benchmark rate at
5.25 percent last night.  Among  Latin America ’s six inflation-targeting central
banks, Chile’s 2 percentage-points of rate increases ranks as
the most while both Colombia and  Brazil  are a quarter point
behind at 1.75 percentage points.  Increased inflows into the economy have helped boost the
currency 7 percent this year, the best performance against the
dollar among the seven major Latin American currencies tracked
by Bloomberg, and Echeverry has blamed “big” companies for the
dollar flows as they borrow abroad.  Dutch Disease  In an Aug. 8 interview with  Caracol Radio , Echeverry said
he telephoned companies to warn them that the stronger currency
is undermining the economy.  Foreign mining and energy investment fuel the economy’s
expansion this year, according to the government, pressuring the
bank to keep inflation expectations anchored around its target.  Echeverry today said that while the “virus” of the so-
called Dutch disease -- when gains in the local currency driven
by a resource boom erode profits for exporters and make non-
commodity industries such as manufacturing less competitive --
was coming, Colombia “has the antidote.”  He said that all Colombian policies are aimed at countering
Dutch disease.  ‘Most Complex’ Decision  Some analysts expected the government to announce macro-
prudential measures that would help stem the flow of short-term
capital into the country. Exporters complain the strong currency
forces them to cut jobs as they receive fewer pesos for goods
such as flowers and coffee sold abroad.  Santos has echoed their concern, though he has ruled out
 capital controls  for now, instead calling for efforts to prevent
further strengthening.  Policy makers agreed to purchase “at least” $20 million
on the  spot market  through September. Uribe today reiterated
that the bank will continue the purchases through Sept. 30.  The peso weakened 0.3 percent to 1782.90 per dollar from
1777.00 yesterday.  One member of the bank’s board has pointed to the current
U.S.-Colombia yield gap as partly responsible for the increase
in external borrowing to an annual pace of 170 percent in May
and said additional rate increases would only attract more
inflows.  “People are spending so much money with credit at the
shopping centers,” said Diego Camacho, an economist at Bogota-
based Acciones de Colombia SA, who expected a rate increase
today and next month. “Credit and the economy’s dynamism is
what the bank is focusing on.”  ‘Context’  Economists covering the Colombian economy maintained their
2011 inflation forecast at 3.3 percent, according to a central
bank  survey  of 39 analysts published last week. They expect
inflation to slow to 0.13 percent this month from 0.14 percent
in July. Uribe today said that inflation will be close to 3
percent at year-end.  The same survey also showed that economists expect policy
makers to raise the benchmark rate to 5 percent by year-end,
according to the average estimate in the survey.  “Without doubt, the bank’s decision will be one of the
most complex since it started its gradual removal of monetary
stimulus, considering the uncertainty in external markets,”
said Velandia before today’s meeting.  Policy makers last month voiced concern that bank lending
was rising faster than economic growth in “a context of
historically low real  interest rates .”  Sales, Growth  At the same time,  South America ’s fourth-biggest economy
expanded at the fastest pace since 2007 in the first quarter,
leading the bank to forecast 2011 growth of as much as 6.5
percent.  Separately, the national statistics agency reported that
industrial output expanded 11.9 percent in June from a year
earlier, while retail sales rose 2.2 percent. It was the 14th
straight month that year-on-year sales rose 10 percent or more.  While inflation in Colombia remains within the bank’s 2
percent to 4 percent target range, the annual rate rose to a
two-year high of 3.42 percent in July and the bulk of the
board’s members expressed concern about a rapid expansion of
domestic demand.  Gross domestic product expanded 5.1 percent in the first
quarter from the same period a year earlier, higher than the
median forecast of 4.8 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 27
economists.  GDP last rose faster in the fourth quarter of 2007, when
the economy grew 8.1 percent year on year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ; 