-- 
Commodities Rebound, as Gold Climbs to a Record in New York, Nickel Gains

-- B y   S h a r o n   L i n d o r e s
-- 
2011-08-19T15:17:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/commodities-led-by-oil-head-for-fourth-weekly-drop-gold-rises-to-record.html
Commodities rebounded as silver,
copper and gasoline gained on speculation that growth in
 developing countries  will be strong enough to boost raw
materials demand. Gold advanced to a record as stocks fell.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities rose as
much as 1.5 percent, after plunging 3.3 percent yesterday.
Silver futures were up 2.9 percent at 10:46 a.m. in  New York ,
sugar rose 3.2 percent, and gasoline gained 1.7 percent. Copper
advanced for the third time this week, and gold rallied as much
as 3.3 percent to $1,881.40 an ounce, the highest ever.  Commodities are up 1.6 percent this year while the MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities tumbled 12 percent on
concern the sovereign-debt crisis is threatening global growth
and demand for raw materials. Consumption of oil shows no sign
of a recession, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “There is a lot of risk off in global financial markets,
and in that respect, commodities are in fact very resilient,”
said Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, the head of rates, foreign exchange
and commodities strategy at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen.
“Copper will still be a tight market even if there is lower
growth in the U.S. because of strong demand in  Asia  and still
weak supply.”  Citigroup Inc. cut its forecasts for U.S. growth after data
yesterday showed jobless claims rose and Philadelphia-area
manufacturing shrank by the most since 2009. The U.S. is the
largest oil consumer and second to  China  in use of copper.  ‘Critical Mass’  “The critical mass of bad news has clearly now been
reached,” Commerzbank AG said in a report today. “The
situation should only change on a lasting basis once the news
improves or governments and central banks do something to
restore more confidence on financial markets.”  Lars Frisell, the chief economist at  Sweden ’s financial
regulator, said it won’t take much for interbank lending to
freeze. The Wall Street Journal said regulators were
scrutinizing the U.S. operations of  Europe ’s largest lenders.  U.S. initial jobless claims climbed by 9,000 to 408,000 in
the week ended Aug. 13, topping the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg for a rise to 400,000. The Fed
Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index unexpectedly
plunged to minus 30.7, the lowest level since March 2009.  Brent Stuck  “Speculation about the debt burden in European countries
may trigger a new round of  risk aversion ,” said Thina Saltvedt,
a Nordea Bank AB analyst in Oslo, who predicts Brent crude oil
will be unable to rebound beyond $118 a barrel this quarter. The
price was up 1.4 percent at $108.52 today.  If oil resumes its slide, the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, including  Saudi Arabia , may begin
discussing reductions in output, Danske Bank’s Rasmussen said  Gold gained on mounting concern that governments will
struggle to repay rising debt and that slower growth has spurred
investors to seek the perceived safety of bullion.  “As long as the financial stress continues in equity
markets and the fixed-income market, we believe we’ll see gold
going higher,” Rasmussen said. “The once unthinkable $2,000 an
ounce is no longer impossible. It could easily hit it over the
next couple of weeks.”  Silver futures for December delivery advanced to $42.095 an
ounce on the Comex in New York, and platinum climbed 1.3 percent
to $1,871.40 an ounce on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
10th gain in a row.  Copper futures for December delivery rose 2.25 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $4.0085 a pound on the Comex, and gasoline
advanced to $2.8326 a gallon on the Nymex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Lindores in London at 
 slindores@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth in Chicago at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  