-- 
Conoco Alaska Pipeline to Spur Demand for Oil Leases, U.S. Says

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-08-19T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/conoco-alaska-pipeline-to-spur-demand-for-oil-leases-u-s-says.html
Oil-industry demand for Alaska
leases the Obama administration plans to offer on federal lands
depends on  ConocoPhillips (COP)  winning approval for a pipeline across
the remote region, the  Bureau of Land Management ’s chief said.  Conoco was  denied  a permit last year for a bridge and
pipeline linking its production site in the National Petroleum
Reserve with a production facility in Alpine, Alaska. Houston-
based Conoco appealed the decision by the U.S. Corps of
Engineers, and the administration is reconsidering the ruling.  “We’re hopeful that the  Army Corps  of Engineers will reach
some sort of the decision, and we hope that decision would allow
that pipeline to be built,” Robert Abbey, director of the
Interior Department unit, said in an interview yesterday in
Bloomberg’s Washington office. “I think once that approval is
granted that we would see a higher degree of interest in leasing
within” the reserve.  President  Barack Obama  wants to invite bids on oil
reservoirs in the Alaska reserve in December as a part of
efforts to increase domestic production and lower dependence on
imports from the  Middle East . The reserve on Alaska’s North
Slope, west of  Prudhoe Bay , may contain 896 million barrels of
oil and 53 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, according to the
 U.S. Geological Survey .  Conoco has sought a permit for its project since 2005,
spokeswoman Natalie Lowman said in an e-mail.  No Date  “The Corps of Engineers would like to finish this process
as soon as possible,” Pat Richardson, an Anchorage-based
spokeswoman for the agency, said in an interview. “We don’t
have a date.”  Using oil from the reserve is crucial for maintaining the
flow in the 34-year-old Trans Alaska Pipeline, Abbey said.  The 800-mile (1,287-kilometer) line, owned by  BP Plc (BP) ,
ConocoPhillips and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , runs from Prudhoe Bay to
Valdez, the northernmost ice-free port in the U.S.  The pipeline, which is scheduled to operate until 2035, may
close at some point after that as production declines from
currently producing fields, the Energy Information
Administration said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  