-- 
Duncan Says Education Law Reform Will Struggle to Pass Congress

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/duncan-says-education-law-reform-will-struggle-to-pass-congress.html
U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan
said getting a  renewed version  of the No Child Left Behind
education law passed by Congress will be an “uphill” struggle,
and defended his proposal to give states waivers to adopt school
reforms.  “We continue to hope if Congress can come together in a
bipartisan way behind anything, it has to be around education,”
Duncan said on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With
Al Hunt” airing this weekend.  Schools across the country have said that they’ll be unable
to reach the requirements in the almost 10-year-old No Child
Left Behind law for students to meet proficiency levels in math,
reading and writing by 2014. Duncan has announced plans to offer
waivers that would allow states to ignore the deadline if they
agree to raise academic standards and improve teacher
performance.  “Everything we’ve done has been at a very high bar,”
Duncan said. “And as we go out with this waiver package, we
will only give waivers to states that maintain that high bar.”  Education officials in at least five states have already
made preliminary applications for waivers which would allow
schools that fall short of the law’s thresholds to continue
receiving federal funds, according to  Justin Hamilton , a
department spokesman. Several more have announced plans to apply
for the waivers.  Montana State Targets  The department is in discussion with Montana officials to
adjust their state targets for math and reading so that schools
will continue to receive federal funding, Hamilton said.  Margaret Spellings, who was education secretary under
President  George W. Bush , said the Obama administration is
“throwing in the towel and admitting defeat” in education
reform by allowing states a way around meeting the deadline.
Spellings is a proponent of the law, which was passed in 2001
and signed by Bush the following year.  Criteria for getting the state waivers haven’t been
announced, so any suggestion that they can be obtained easily is
premature, Duncan said.  Representative  John Kline , the Minnesota Republican who is
chairman of the House education committee, has introduced a set
of bills to change the law, including a proposal to cut spending
by eliminating half of the federal education programs under the
current law.  Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat and Chairman of the
Senate education committee, is working to bring a bill reforming
No Child Left Behind to the panel “soon,” said Justine
Sessions, a spokeswoman from his office.  ‘Globally Competitive’  The secretary also said protecting the  Pell Grant  federal
education program -- that gives up to $5,550 to eligible U.S.
college students -- from budget cuts is key to the U.S. keeping
its educational lead over  China  and other countries seeking an
economic edge.  “These other countries are investing. They’re innovative,
they’re not scaling back,” Duncan said. “The jobs of the
future are going to go to the countries that are producing the
knowledge workers who can succeed in the globally competitive
economy.”  President  Barack Obama  cut a $1.8-billion feature of the
Pell Grant program that permitted some students to receive two
grants in one year. The program, called year-round Pell, was
designed to help students get degrees more quickly and was
widely used by for-profit college students.  Congress and state attorneys general have been
investigating recruiting practices and excessive student debt at
for-profit colleges, and the administration has put new
restrictions on federal aid for education companies, which makes
up as much as 90 percent of their revenue. Duncan said he wants
to see growth at for-profit colleges with high graduation rates
whose students get good jobs.  “The good for-profit actors, we want them to have more
students. We want them to continue to grow,” he said. “We’re
not challenging the sector. We’re challenging the bad actors.”  The Association of Private Sector Colleges & Universities,
a Washington-based trade group, sued the government in July to
block the package of funding restrictions, called “gainful
employment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  