-- 
Hedge Funds Acquire Ensco, Schlumberger While Stocks Slumped

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-08-19T14:23:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/hedge-funds-led-by-mhr-bought-ensco-schlumberger-during-slump.html
Hedge funds bought $1.6 billion of
shares in two oil-services companies in the second quarter as
analysts said a drilling boom in the U.S. may spread overseas,
helping reverse a slump in the companies’ stock prices.  Ensco Plc (ESV)  and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  received the most new
investment by hedge funds of all energy companies, beating
producers such as  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) , according to calculations
by Bloomberg from regulatory filings this week. MHR Fund
Management LLC, Vinik Asset Management LP and SAC Capital
Advisors LP topped the list of buyers.  Oil companies have to boost drilling in expanding areas of
the world such as in  Asia  and off the coasts of  Brazil  and West
Africa to meet growing energy demand. Drilling for crude and
natural gas in  North America  increased at five times the pace of
the rest of the world in the past year.  “International has yet to really inflect, but we’re
beginning to see some progress on that front,” said Bill Herbert, an analyst at Simmons & Co. in Houston, who has an
“overweight” rating on Schlumberger and Ensco. “You’re going
to see meaningful growth on international, deepwater and
exploration-related activity.”  New York-based MHR acquired $325 million of Ensco stock
based on June 30 prices, and Vinik of Boston added $137 million
of Schlumberger shares, the filings at the Securities and
Exchange Commission in  Washington  show.  MHR Managing Principal Hal Goldstein didn’t respond to a
phone message seeking comment. An executive at Vinik who asked
not to be named said the firm never comments to the media.  11% Weighting  Hedge funds  had 11 percent of their equity investments in
energy at the end of the quarter, the filings showed. Financial
stocks had the biggest allocation, 18 percent, while information
technology companies had 17 percent.  Schlumberger, the biggest oil services company, has more
exposure to international operations than its rivals, giving it
an advantage should growth shift from North America, Herbert
said. Ensco may add sales while the biggest offshore driller,
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , is tied up in litigation over the explosion of
its Deepwater Horizon rig in the  Gulf of Mexico  last year, which
triggered the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history.  Schlumberger today rebounded from a 1.9 percent decline and
traded up 0.3 percent at $74.66 at 10:15 a.m. New York time.
Ensco’s American depositary receipts climbed 1.1 percent to
$43.98.  Transocean and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the second-biggest oil
services firm, were among the energy companies that hedge funds
sold most, with about $284 million and $326 million of net sales
respectively, according to Bloomberg calculations made based on
information in the filings.  Ensco’s Growth  Kinder Morgan Inc. and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  were the most sold
energy stocks, the filings from 819 hedge funds with $1.2
trillion in holdings showed.  Ensco became the second-ranking offshore driller with the
acquisition of Pride International Inc. in May, which expanded
its presence in growing drilling markets such as Brazil and West
Africa.  “Ensco’s now the exciting new thing,” said Matt Beeby, an
analyst at Global Hunter Securities in Fort Worth, who rates the
shares a “buy.” “The market is looking for a go-to offshore
driller. It used to be Transocean.”  The purchases of Ensco and Schlumberger stock were made in
a quarter when they were relatively out of favor. Schlumberger
fell 7.4 percent in the period while Ensco’s ADRs declined 7.9
percent. They lost ground against the  Standard & Poor’s  500
index, which dropped 0.4 percent. Both extended their declines
in the following months.  Signs are beginning to emerge that international operations
may be set to increase, Herbert said. More rigs are being built,
and countries have approved more drilling projects.  Active Rigs  There were 1,150 oil and gas rigs active outside the U.S.
and  Canada  in July, close to the 24-year high of 1,189 posted in
February, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , a drilling service
company that tracks global rig use. North American operations
rose to 2,423 in August from 2,303 at the end of July.  Steven A. Cohen’s SAC Capital bought about $81 million of
Schlumberger stock, based on June 30 prices, and Viking Global
Investors LP, run by former Tiger Management LLC fund manager
Andreas Halvorsen, bought about $121 million.  A spokesman for SAC Capital Advisors declined to comment.
Calls to Halvorsen weren’t returned.  “They may be looking to increase their international
exposure as their risk appetite increases and the general market
looks to take risk off the table,” Brian Youngberg, an analyst
at  Edward Jones  in St. Louis said in an Aug. 15 telephone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net  