-- 
Medicare Bid Process for Medical Supplies to Expand, U.S. Says

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-08-19T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/medicare-bid-process-for-medical-supplies-to-expand-u-s-says.html
U.S. regulators plan to proceed with
a program requiring durable medical equipment suppliers led by
 Lincare Holdings Inc. (LNCR)  and Apria Healthcare Group Inc. to bid to
sell to Medicare beneficiaries.  A nine-city trial saved about $130 million in the first
half of the year, led to almost 100 retail stores opening and
hasn’t harmed patient care, the  Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services  said today in a briefing with reporters.  Expanding to 91 more  metropolitan areas  by July 2013 and
nationwide in 2016 will cut prices for wheelchairs, oxygen tanks
and diabetes-testing supplies, saving the U.S. $17 billion in a
decade, said Jonathan Blum, the deputy administrator overseeing
Medicare, the health program for the elderly and disabled.
Suppliers grew to 714 from 622, he said.  “This is a program that has led to direct savings for
taxpayers and our beneficiaries without compromising quality of
care,” he said. The Baltimore-based agency will begin accepting
bids in coming months for the added areas, including  New York ,
 Los Angeles  and Chicago, he said.  The effort will lead to business closings and access issues
for Medicare beneficiaries, according to Apria of Lakewood
Forest,  California , owned by New York-based  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
and Clearwater, Florida-based Lincare, as well as manufacturers
led by Elyria, Ohio-based  Invacare Corp. (IVC)  The companies are
trying to have competitive bidding scrapped.  Reduced Prices  The program reduced prices for nine types of equipment by
an average of 35 percent, Blum said. A review of claims data
didn’t uncover evidence that patients required additional care
at physician offices, hospitals or nursing homes, indicating the
bidding program hasn’t harmed their health, he said.  The agency received 45 complaints, contrasting with reports
from suppliers and the  American Association for Homecare  of more
than 500 from beneficiaries who couldn’t find a supplier, said
Tyler Wilson, the Arlington, Virginia-based group’s chief
executive officer.  Medicare officials are “dead wrong,” Wilson said by
telephone. “They’re mischaracterizing or turning a deaf ear to
problems in this system,” he said. Association members also are
reporting stores going out of business, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 