-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Post Fourth Weekly Decline on Global Growth Concern

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-08-19T20:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/emerging-market-stocks-set-for-fourth-weekly-slump-amid-global-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
second day, pushing the benchmark index to its longest streak of
weekly losses since May, as signs the global economy is slowing
drove investor outflows from riskier assets.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 2.5 percent to 970.16
at 4:30 p.m. in  New York , for its fourth straight week of
losses. Brazil’s Bovespa slipped 1.3 percent while Colombia’s
IGBC declined 0.8 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  sank 6.2
percent, the biggest drop since November 2008, while Taiwan’s
Taiex index plunged 3.6 percent.  “There’s nowhere to hide as exposure is being taken off
across most asset classes, driven by fears on developed-economy
growth and liquidity fears in the European banking system,”
said  Gavin Parry , managing director at Parry International
Trading Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  Emerging-market equity funds posted $2.8 billion of
outflows in the week ended Aug. 17, extending the biggest
withdrawals since 2008 the previous week at $7.7 billion,
Citigroup Inc. analysts led by Markus Rosgen said in a report
today, citing figures by EPFR Global. Analysts at Morgan Stanley
cut their forecasts for stock indexes in  Southeast Asia , after
economists from the brokerage lowered estimates for global
economic growth.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index plunged to minus 30.7 this month, the lowest since March
2009, from 3.2 in July. The August gauge exceeded the most
pessimistic projection in a Bloomberg News survey in which the
median estimate was 2.  Won, Lira  “Heightening fears about the fate of the global economy
after yesterday’s market sell-off and the very weak Philly Fed
survey have seen a further sell-off in risk,” analysts at RBC
Capital, including Robert Beange in London, wrote in an e-mailed
note.  Equities worldwide have plunged in the past four weeks on
concern the U.S. may enter a recession and as an intensifying
European debt crisis evoked memories of late 2008, when credit
markets froze after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.
Benchmark indexes in  China ,  Taiwan  and South Korea sank this
month to levels that were more than 20 percent below their
peaks, the level that signifies a bear market to some investors.  Brazil’s Bovespa posted its third week of losses in the
past four. Banks led declines today, with Itau Unibanco Holding
SA dropping 3.7 percent, after a government report showed that
inflation surpassed 7 percent for the first time since 2005.  The Korean won depreciated 1.3 percent against the dollar.
The lira dropped 0.1 percent on speculation that a global
slowdown will prompt the central bank to cut  interest rates  next
week.  Trading Halt  Morgan Stanley cut its estimate for the MSCI Indonesia
Index from a 13 percent advance by the year end to just 1
percent. The MSCI Thailand Index will advance 2 percent this
year, less than an earlier target of 3 percent, the analysts
said.  Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  retreated 4.4 percent
and the SET Index slid 1.8 percent in Bangkok.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index lost 2
percent for the lowest close since May 2010.  South Korea’s exchange said it halted program trading of
shares on the Kospi Index after futures tumbled. Program trading
was stopped for five minutes from 1:03 p.m. local time after
Kospi 200 futures fell more than 5 percent for more than a
minute, Korea Exchange Inc. said today in a regulatory filing.  South Korea’s Financial Supervisory Service Governor Kwon
Hyouk Se asked the nation’s insurance companies to expand
capital on concern the recent market rout may deteriorate their
finances.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell four basis points to 368,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  