-- 
Esprit Said to Explore Sale of U.S., Canadian Clothing Retail Operations

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-08-19T08:47:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/esprit-said-to-explore-sale-of-u-s-canadian-clothing-retail-operations.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the biggest
Hong Kong-listed clothier, is exploring the sale of its U.S.
and Canadian operations, according to three people familiar
with the matter.  Rothschild in  New York  has been hired to advise Esprit,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
process isn’t public. The assets are likely to be shown to a
number of private-equity funds, said one of the people.  Esprit’s sales in the North American countries, where it
directly manages more than 90 stores, grew 11 percent to HK$657
million ($84 million) in its fiscal first half ended December.
The retailer’s stock has plummeted 55 percent in the past year
amid slumping sales in  Europe , its biggest market.  “Selling may not be a bad idea,” said Gabriel Chan, a
Hong Kong-based consumer analyst for Credit Suisse Group AG
with a “neutral” rating on Esprit, said in a phone interview.
“The North America business just lacks scale.”  Same-store sales for the company’s directly managed North
American outlets fell 4.9 percent in the company’s fiscal first
half, compared with a 1.7 percent decline for Europe and a 0.6
percent increase for the Asia-Pacific region. Esprit added a
total of 13 retail stores in the U.S. and  Canada  in the period,
bringing the total to 95 at the end of December.  H&M, Zara  Comparable or same-store sales strip out the effect of
outlets that have been open for less than a year.  Patrick Lau, Esprit’s senior vice-president for finance
and head of  investor relations , declined to comment on the
matter. Chief Financial Officer Chew Fook Aun didn’t
immediately reply to phone messages and an e-mail. A
representative of Rothschild didn’t return a phone message
seeking comment.  Esprit fell 3.8 percent to HK$20.50 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading in Hong Kong trading as Asian stocks slumped amid signs
world economic growth is slowing and Europe’s debt crisis may
damage the banking system. The retailer’s shares are down 45
percent this year as it contends with higher materials costs
and competition from  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara.  Net income for Esprit slumped 21 percent to HK$2.14
billion in its first half, missing the HK$2.3 billion median
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. It was
the fifth consecutive six-month profit decline for the company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Not Material’  Esprit, which began in 1968 in  California , has more than
1,150 directly managed retail locations worldwide and more than
12,000 wholesale outlets, including franchises and “shops in
stores.” The North American division accounted for 3.7 percent
of Esprit’s HK$17.7 billion revenue in the six months through
December.  “Even if the North American business turns around, it
won’t move the needle for the entire company,” Chan said.
“From a business perspective, it’s not material.”  The company, with a market value of HK$26.5 billion, was
started by Susie and Doug Tompkins when they sold clothes out
of the back of a station wagon in  San Francisco , according to
the company’s  website .  The transformation into a global brand began three years
later, when the couple met Hong Kong businessman Michael Ying,
who was chairman from 1993 until 2006. The current chairman is
Hans-Joachim Koerber, the former chief executive officer of
 Germany ’s Metro AG, who took over from Heinz Krogner in
February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net 
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net  