-- 
Mets Owners Argue Madoff Trustee Has No Basis for $1 Billion Fraud Claims

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/mets-owners-argue-madoff-trustee-has-no-basis-for-1-billion-fraud-claims.html
A $1 billion lawsuit by the trustee
liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm against the owners of the  New
York Mets  should be dismissed, a lawyer for the baseball team’s
owners told a federal judge.  Karen Wagner, an attorney for owners  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz, argued to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff that the trustee,
 New York  lawyer  Irving Picard , has failed to show evidence they
ignored red flags that should have alerted them to Madoff’s
fraud.  Picard’s case “doesn’t plead anything amounting to willful
blindness,” Wagner said in a hearing in Manhattan yesterday.  The trustee, New York lawyer Irving Picard, claims Wilpon
and Katz must turn over the $300 million in profits for the
benefit of Madoff victims who lost more than they gained in the
fraud. Picard claims they can’t keep the $700 million principal
because they “turned a blind eye” to concerns Madoff was
running a fraudulent scheme.  Rakoff said he will rule on the request by the end of
September. He scheduled a two-week trial to begin March 5 if he
doesn’t dismiss the suit. Rakoff said he will permit the parties
to go forward with the exchange of evidence in the case.  Mario Cuomo   Former New York governor Mario Cuomo, who attended the
hearing, said it had given both sides additional information to
determine whether the case can be settled. Cuomo was appointed
by the bankruptcy court as a mediator in the case.  “This was a very helpful exercise,” Cuomo said after the
hearing. “Now both parties know more about their positions than
they did yesterday.”  David Sheehan , a lawyer representing Picard, argued in the
hearing that he has to show only that Wilpon and Katz had
information that should have prompted them to question Madoff
about his operations.  Sheehan said the trustee wants the case heard by a jury if
it goes to trial.  In December 2008, Madoff, 73, admitted that his firm,
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, was a multibillion-
dollar  Ponzi scheme , paying older investors money it gathered
from newer investors. He pleaded guilty in 2009 to running what
has been called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. Madoff is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in  North
Carolina .  ‘Dagger in the Heart’  Wilpon has said the news of Madoff’s confession was “like
a dagger in the heart.” The Sterling defendants claim they lost
$500 million in the fraud.  In December 2010, Picard sued Wilpon and Katz and their
real estate company, Sterling Equities Inc., along with dozens
of related family trusts and companies in bankruptcy court in
New York. Sterling Equities owns the Mets and a controlling
stake in the broadcaster SportsNet New York.  Rakoff agreed in July to review the case, saying there are
legal issues in the case that required it to be moved from
 bankruptcy court . He said yesterday he is convinced the case
should remain in his court.  Picard has sued about 1,000 investors, banks and others,
seeking a total of about $100 billion. He has raised more than
$8.6 billion, or almost half the $17.3 billion in principal he
calculates investors lost in the fraud, including a $1 billion
settlement with hedge-fund firm Tremont Group Holdings Inc.,
announced July 28.  Sheehan told Rakoff yesterday that only 60 of the 1,000
cases claim the investors knew or should have known of Madoff’s
fraud.  Appeals Decision  This week, Picard won a ruling from a federal appeals court
in New York approving his method of determining which investors
can claim money from the Securities Investor Protection Corp.
and from the funds he’s recovered for victims. Picard has said
he intends to pay “net losers,” investors who put more money
in their Madoff accounts than they withdrew, before “net
winner” investors, including the Sterling defendants, who took
out more than they put in.  Sheehan said the ruling lends support to Picard’s suit
against the Mets owners. Wagner told Rakoff it doesn’t apply.  The Sterling group first started investing with Madoff in
1985, according to court papers filed in the case. The Sterling
defendants said they cooperated with Picard’s investigation,
turning over almost 700,000 pages of documents over the course
of a year.  In opening yesterday’s hearing, Rakoff, a fan of the  New
York Yankees , greeted the lawyers by saying “Welcome to my
ballpark.” He said he was grateful they’d given him such
lengthy briefs to read.  “Otherwise I probably would have had to watch a Mets game,
which would have been a very painful process,” Rakoff said.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 