-- 
European Banks Fall for Third Day on Funding, Profit Concern

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-08-19T10:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/eu-banks-may-face-funding-earnings-risks-deutsche-bank-says.html
European banks tumbled, led by
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , on concern
firms will struggle to fund themselves and increase earnings as
the region’s sovereign debt crisis strangles economic growth.  Lloyds, Britain’s second-biggest government-assisted bank,
fell 6.2 percent in London trading, while Intesa slid 5.9
percent in Milan. The 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index tumbled 3 percent after dropping the
most in two years yesterday.  While “the chances of a genuine liquidity crisis as
experienced in 2008 are reasonably remote,” lenders may face a
“slower-moving, but still toxic, funding crisis,”  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  analyst Matt Spick said in a client note. Moreover,
“the weight of negative earnings momentum as we head into the
second half represents a major ongoing risk for the European
banks,” he said.  The Bloomberg European banks index tumbled 10 percent this
week on signs lenders are facing tougher funding conditions.
Banks’ sale of long-term debt fell behind again in July and
August, which may be the weakest month on record, and that could
force firms to further reduce leverage, bad news for banks and
the economy, Spick said in the note.  Funding Market  Earnings in the third quarter and beyond for European
banks, which are trading at the lowest levels since the first
quarter of 2009, may be hurt by capital market revenues that
“disappoint,” low  interest rates  and a slow economic recovery,
Spick said.  “The markets are concerned over sovereign debt -- there is
some evidence that dislocation has spilled over to the term
funding market for banks,” said  Gareth Hunt , an Investec
analyst in London. “It’s not just the U.K. We know European
banks have to raise quite a lot in the second half of the year.
That’s the ripple effect of sovereign on bank term funding.”  Hunt estimates Lloyds will have to raise about 8.5 billion
pounds ($14 billion) in the second half of the year and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , 5 billion pounds, from debt sales.
“We don’t know what rates they are going to get,” he said.
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  are
unlikely to need to secure any more funding for the year, he
said.  Widening Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to buy bank bonds instead
of benchmark government debt surged to 297 basis points on Aug.
18, or 2.97 percentage points, the highest since July 21, 2009,
data compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch show.  The cost of insuring that debt against default surged to a
record today. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior
debt of 25 European banks and insurers rose to 240 basis points.
The gauge was at 149 when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. folded
in September 2008, before peaking at 211 in March 2009.  The difference between the three-month euro interbank
offered rate, or Euribor, and the overnight indexed swap rate, a
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to each other, rose to 0.69
percentage point today, within 1 basis point of the widest
spread since May 2009.  Banks deposited 90.5 billion euros in the  European Central
Bank ’s overnight facility as of yesterday. That compares with an
average of about 36.7 billion euros deposited each night this
year. The ECB this week provided a bank with six-month dollar
funding for the first time since February.  Flashing Amber  “Our funding stress indicators continue to flash amber,”
Citigroup Inc. analysts led by Kinner Lakhani said in a note to
clients today. “Most indicators weakened yesterday, but remain
below the highest levels of last week.”  Overseas banks operating in the U.S. may have cut their
dollar holdings by about $339 billion in the past four weeks as
European banks face a squeeze on funding. The figure may have
dropped by about 38 percent to $550 billion in the period,  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency research at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  New York  said yesterday. Banks had an average
cash buffer of about $50 billion before the 2008 crisis and
about $400 billion in 2010, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  