-- 
EU Can’t Let Finn Collateral Derail Greek Rescue, Salgado Says

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-08-19T20:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/eu-can-t-let-finn-collateral-derail-greek-rescue-salgado-says.html
Euro-region governments can’t let
Finnish demands for collateral in return for Greek aid derail a
second rescue package for  Europe ’s most-indebted country,
Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said.  It’s not “reasonable” that a collateral agreement in
return for 109 billion euros ($157 billion) in new loans to
Greece would be offered to just one euro-region country, she
said. A voluntary formula, not necessarily based on the Finnish
plan, could be adopted for countries that want extra protection,
she said.  Spain  isn’t seeking collateral as it doesn’t think
it’s necessary, Salgado said.  “This is an open discussion,” Salgado said today in an
interview in Madrid. “We should all bear in mind that it
mustn’t stand in the way of a solution for Greece, and if we all
aim for that, I’m sure we will reach a solution.”  Finland demanded collateral as part of a July 21 agreement
by euro-area leaders to provide the new aid package to  Greece 
and grant broader powers to the region’s rescue fund. Finland
has since reached a bilateral collateral deal with Greece that
prompted  Austria , the Netherlands, Slovenia and Slovakia to say
they would seek similar guarantees, threatening to delay the
rescue package.  The flap over collateral contributed to a slump in Greek
bonds today, with the yield on the country’s two-year note
jumping 2.4 percentage points to top 37 percent for the first
time in a month.  Cash Deposit  Salgado said she was confident that both the Greek aid
package and the expanded powers for the euro-region rescue fund
would be approved by the end of September, as pledged by German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  The agreement between Finland and Athens requires Greece
to deposit cash in a state account that Finland will invest in
AAA-rated bonds. The deposit will be equal to 20 percent of the
collateral needed, Austria Finance Minister Maria Fekter said
yesterday.  “The Finnish formula shouldn’t be considered a done
deal,” Salgado said. “The discussions in the euro group are
open and it’s not the first time a country proposes something
and then changes its position slightly in the common
discussions.”  European Commission spokesman Amadeu Altafaj today warned
against introducing new conditions that would lead to
“excessive collateralization” regarding Greece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  