-- 
EU May Draft Legislation for Joint Eurobond

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-08-19T15:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/eu-may-draft-legislation-for-joint-euro-bond-issuance-rehn-says.html
European Union regulators may push
for joint bond sales by euro-area nations to help contain the
debt crisis, putting pressure on  Germany  to drop its opposition.  The European Commission said it may present draft
legislation on euro bonds when completing a report on the
feasibility of common debt sales. The commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm in Brussels, earlier this year opposed such a
step because of German-led objections.  “The report will, if appropriate, be accompanied by
legislative proposals,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in a written response to a European
Parliament question. “These euro securities would aim to
strengthen fiscal discipline and increase stability in the euro
area through markets.” He gave no timetable for either the
report or any related draft law.  The idea of jointly sold bonds by the euro area’s 17
nations remains alive because unprecedented bailouts by
governments and the  European Central Bank  have failed to stamp
out debt concerns that began in  Greece  almost two years ago and
rattled markets in AAA rated  France  last week.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel today reiterated her
opposition to euro bonds, telling members of her Christian
Democratic Union in Hameln, Germany, “we don’t want that.” AAA
rated Germany, Europe’s largest economy, would face extra costs
of 47 billion euros ($67.6 billion) a year through the alignment
of  interest rates  with nations that pay more to borrow, the
country’s Ifo institute said on Aug. 17.  Southern Liabilities  “The idea will not fly politically,”  Daniel Gros ,
director of the Centre for European Policy Studies in Brussels,
said by telephone. “Why should taxpayers in northern  Europe  pay
for the liabilities of countries in the south? There are also
serious economic problems with such a system.”  Supporters of euro bonds include southern nations such as
Greece and  Italy , federalist-leaning Luxembourg and  Belgium  and
leading members of the 27-nation EU Parliament.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy has taken a more neutral
position, saying on Aug. 16 that “we could imagine having euro
bonds one day, but at the end of a European integration process,
not at the beginning of an integration process.”  In this context, the commission under President  Jose Barroso  agreed last month to prepare a report on the feasibility
of euro bonds without specifying whether draft legislation would
be part of the exercise.  Blue-Red Plan  Rehn’s response to the Parliament question is dated Aug.
12. A legislative proposal would need the support of European
governments. In July, Rehn said the feasibility study on common
bond issuance would be ready “toward the end of the year.”  The best-known joint-issuance model is the so-called blue-
red one drafted by researchers at the Brussels-based Bruegel
institute. It foresees euro-area governments selling common
bonds to cover debt up to 60 percent of each country’s gross
domestic product, the level deemed “sustainable” by the euro’s
founding treaty.  That tranche of “blue” bonds would carry a common
interest rate. Debt over the treaty limit would be financed by
“red” bonds, sold by each country on its own at penalty rates
that provide an incentive to keep deficits down.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  