-- 
EU Won’t Let Finnish Collateral Demands Derail Greek Rescue, Salgado Says

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-08-19T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/eu-won-t-let-finnish-collateral-demands-derail-greek-rescue-salgado-says.html
Euro-region governments can’t let
Finnish demands for collateral derail a second rescue package
for  Greece , Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said, as she
predicted nations will approve the rescue in September.  Spain  doesn’t deem collateral “necessary,” and won’t seek
it, Salgado said in an interview last night in  Madrid . It’s not
“reasonable” that a collateral agreement in return for 109
billion euros ($157 billion) in new loans to Greece would be
offered to just one euro-region country, she said. A voluntary
formula, not necessarily based on the Finnish plan, could be
adopted for countries that want extra protection.  “This is an open discussion,” Salgado, 62, said. “We
should all bear in mind that it mustn’t stand in the way of a
solution for Greece, and if we all aim for that, I’m sure we
will reach a solution.”  Finland  demanded collateral as part of a July 21 agreement
by euro-area leaders to provide the new aid package to Greece
and grant broader powers to the region’s rescue fund. Finland
has since reached a bilateral collateral deal with Greece that
prompted  Austria , the Netherlands, Slovenia and Slovakia to say
they would seek similar guarantees, threatening to delay the
rescue package.  Greece’s Recession  The flap over collateral and signs that Greece’s recession
may be worse than forecast contributed to a slump in Greek bonds
yesterday. The yield on the country’s two-year note jumped 2.4
percentage points to top 37 percent for the first time in a
month.  The forecast for Greece’s economy to contract 3.8 percent
to 3.9 percent this year may prove “optimistic” because “the
external environment is worsening the situation,” Greek Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos said in an interview yesterday with
Athens-based Skai Radio.  Salgado said she was confident that both the Greek aid
package and the expanded powers for the euro-region rescue fund
would be approved by the end of September, as pledged by German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  The agreement between Finland and  Athens  requires Greece
to deposit cash in a state account that Finland will invest in
AAA-rated bonds. The deposit will be equal to 20 percent of the
collateral needed, Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said.  “The Finnish formula shouldn’t be considered a done
deal,” Salgado said. “The discussions in the euro group are
open and it’s not the first time a country proposes something
and then changes its position slightly in the common
discussions.”  Broader Deal  Salgado said a broader deal could offer the countries whose
banks had the least exposure to Greece more collateral
protection than those with greater holdings of the debt. That
echoed a proposal by Fekter, who said euro members whose banks
hold less Greek debt should have a greater right to collateral.  Finland is open to broadening a collateral deal it struck
with Greece, Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said Aug. 18.
Still, offering more collateral beyond Finland would further
reduce the firepower of the aid package. Finland was due to lend
only 1 billion of the 109 billion euros included in the new
plan, according to  Barclays Capital .  “If the euro area moves away from solidarity to permit
bilateral solutions, as happened at the July 21 summit, then all
countries are likely to want to have the same deal,”  Julian Callow , chief European economist at Barclays Capital in  London 
wrote in a note to investors yesterday. A euro-area collateral
deal “would restrict the amount of additional new financing
being provided in the second package.”  European Commission spokesman Amadeu Altafaj warned against
introducing new conditions that would lead to “excessive
collateralization” regarding Greece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  