-- 
Euro Banks Well Funded, Deutsche Bank’s Konstam Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-08-19T18:56:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/european-banks-are-well-funded-deutsche-bank-s-konstam-says-tom-keene.html
European banks have sufficient
capital and a freeze in funding for lenders is not imminent,
according to Dominic Konstam, the New York-based head of
interest-rate research at Deutsche Bank AG.  “Banks are still funded, they’re well funded,” Konstam
said during a Bloomberg Television interview on “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene . “I think the investors are more
worried about funding than the banks themselves are.”  The cost of protecting European financial debt surged to an
all-time high today. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of
credit-default swaps linked to senior debt of 25 banks and
insurers increased as much as 12 basis points to 243, a record
based on closing prices, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Speculation has increased this week that U.S. regulators
are stepping up scrutiny of local operations for  Europe ’s
largest banks on concern that the sovereign-debt crisis may lead
to funding problems. New York Fed President William C. Dudley
said yesterday that the central bank always keeps an eye on the
performance of U.S. and foreign banks, not monitoring one group
more than the other.  European lenders raised 50 billion euros ($72 billion) of
capital from January to April, the European Banking Authority
reported last month. Eight banks failed the EBA’s stress tests
July 15, with a combined shortfall of 2.5 billion euros. As many
as 16 more will need to bolster capital after their core Tier 1
ratio dropped below 6 percent, little more than the assessment’s
5 percent pass-mark, the EBA said.  The  Federal Reserve  lent  Switzerland ’s central bank $200
million in a program aimed at easing credit strains in Europe,
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  reported yesterday. The so-
called swap arrangement with the  Swiss National Bank  was
outstanding for the week ending Aug. 17. The transaction was the
first time the program has been used since March, when the
 European Central Bank  tapped $70 million.  “The central banks have the policy tool available to deal
with the liquidity crisis,” Konstam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  