-- 
European Stocks Drop for Fourth Week; Carlsberg Tumbles as Autonomy Soars

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-08-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/european-stocks-decline-for-fourth-week-carlsberg-shares-slump.html
European stocks declined for a
fourth week, led by banks and carmakers, as concern escalated
that the global economy is slowing and as the leaders of the
euro area failed to restore investor confidence.  Carlsberg A/S, the Nordic region’s largest brewer, sank 25
percent after reducing its full-year outlook. Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc dropped 22 percent as a gauge of European banks
slid to its lowest level since 2009. Autonomy Corp., the U.K.’s
second-largest software company, surged 53 percent after it
agreed to be bought by Hewlett-Packard Co. for $10.3 billion.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index dropped 6.1 percent to
223.13 this past week to its lowest level since July 2009. The
gauge has declined 23 percent from its peak in February as
concern mounted that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will spread
to the larger economies of  Italy  and  Spain  and that the U.S.
recovery will stall.  The slump has pushed down the Stoxx 600’s price-to-earnings
ratio to 9.2 times the estimated earnings of its constituent
companies, below the average multiple of 12.2 over the last five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2
percent from the first quarter, its slowest pace of growth since
the euro area emerged from recession in late 2009. Economists
had predicted that the economy would expand 0.3 percent,
according to the median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  European Economic Growth  “Despite attractive valuations at current earnings levels,
stocks saw a very large selloff this week,” said Emmanuel Hauptmann, senior equity fund manager and partner at Reyl Asset
Management SA in Geneva. “The GDP numbers in Europe show the
core of the  euro zone  stagnating in the second quarter, and with
signs of extremely weak U.S. manufacturing, the risk of a new
recession has increased.”  Germany ’s economy, Europe’s largest, almost stalled in the
second quarter. German gross domestic product climbed 0.1
percent, after jumping 1.3 percent in the first quarter, missing
the median economist projection of 0.5 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Morgan Stanley on Aug. 18 reduced its projection for global
growth this year, citing an “insufficient” policy response to
Europe’s debt crisis, weaker confidence and the prospect of
fiscal tightening. The bank predicted expansion of 3.9 percent,
down from a previous forecast of 4.2 percent.  The investment bank also cut its growth forecast for  China 
in 2012 and Deutsche Bank AG reduced its estimate for the
world’s second-largest economy for 2011 and 2012.  Global Economic Slowdown  “The combination of fear about a global economic slowdown
and the lack of confidence in policy makers has dragged the
stock markets lower this week,” said  Lars Knudsen , who manages
about $110 million at LGT Capital Management AG in Pfaeffikon,
 Switzerland . “I think investors’ global GDP numbers for 2012
are even lower than those of the analysts.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  on Aug. 17 agreed to press for closer euro-area
cooperation, tougher deficit rules and a harmonization of their
corporate tax rates, while rejecting an expansion of the 440
billion-euro ($634 billion) rescue fund.  “Investors don’t see what public remedy can be found,”
Hauptmann said. “The governments’ range of action seems limited
as the Sarkozy and Merkel summit disappointed, with no real
solution brought to the table.”  ‘Sell Into Rallies’  According to Exane BNP Paribas, investors should sell into
any short-term rebound in stocks after economic reports this
week indicated that the risk of a global recession and a further
selloff has risen.  “This week’s data have further increased the already high
probability of a recession,” said Lars Kreckel, an equity
strategist at Exane in  London . “Financial market turmoil
appears to be spilling over into the real economy.”  National benchmark indexes fell every western European
market except  Iceland  this week. Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  declined
8.6 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index dropped 5.2
percent.  France ’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  slid 6.1 percent.  Carlsberg slumped 25 percent after forecasting 2011
adjusted net income growth of 5 percent to 10 percent, compared
with a previous prediction of 20 percent. The company reported
second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes of 3.7 billion
kroner ($716 million), compared with the average estimate of
4.33 billion kroner in a Bloomberg News survey.  Banks Slide  A gauge of European banks was the biggest drag on the Stoxx
600 this week.  RBS led losses, dropping 22 percent and Barclays Plc fell
20 percent. Lloyds Banking declined 16 percent, while Danske
Bank A/S slid 15 percent. Swedbank AB retreated 11 percent and
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Sweden ’s biggest bank, lost 9.4 percent after
Lars Frisell, chief economist at the country’s financial
regulator, said “it won’t take much for the  interbank market  to
collapse.”  Deutsche Bank AG financial analyst, Matt Spick said in a
report to clients that European banks may have “negative
earnings momentum” in the second half of the year as capital
markets revenue “disappoints” and  interest rates  remain low.
He also warned that lenders may face a “slower moving, but
still toxic, funding crisis.”  Fiat, BMW, Daimler  Fiat SpA declined 20 percent as a gauge of auto-industry
shares posted the biggest decline in the Stoxx 600, trading at
an 11-month low.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest luxury
carmaker, fell 12 percent and Daimler AG plunged 11 percent.
Continental AG, Europe’s second-largest car-parts maker, slid 15
percent.  Terna Rete Elettrica Nazionale SpA retreated 15 percent and
 Enel SpA (ENEL) , Italy’s largest power producer, dropped 9.9 percent.
Italy approved a law that increased the tax on power generators
to 10.5 percent from 6.5 percent and extended the levy to
distribution and transmission companies.  Nobel Biocare AG slumped 16 percent to its lowest price
since October 2001 as rival Straumann Holding AG, which overtook
the company in 2010 to become the world’s largest maker of
dental implants, reported faster sales growth than Nobel in the
first half. Analysts at UBS AG lowered their stance on Nobel to
“neutral” from “buy.”  Autonomy surged 53 percent. Hewlett-Packard, the world’s
largest computer maker, agreed to buy the company for $10.3
billion in cash to increase sales of cloud services for
businesses, while lessening its reliance on personal computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  