-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Commodities Set for 4th Weekly Loss

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-08-19T07:23:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/europe-commodity-day-ahead-commodities-set-for-4th-weekly-loss.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  *T ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE REPORTS:  Metal Prices: ($/ton)  Other Markets:  TOP STORY:  Commodities Set for Fourth Weekly Loss as Gold Reaches Record  Commodities dropped, heading for a fourth weekly loss, as
oil and grains tumbled on concern slower economic growth will
weaken demand. Gold advanced to a record for the second day as
investors sought a haven.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Vietnam  May Release Rice Reserve to Cool Record Local Price (1)  Vietnam, the world’s second-largest rice exporter, may
release grain held in government stockpiles to cool the local
market after a surge in export demand helped to drive domestic
prices to a record.  Asian Agri Fund Eyes Peru Palm Oil as Malaysia Runs Out of Land  Asian Agri Capital, a Singapore private-equity firm that
focuses on early-stage plantations, is seeking to raise $100
million to invest in palm oil and other tropical commodities in
 Southeast Asia  and  Latin America .  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Gains as Chinese Investors Buy Amid Tight Global Supplies  Copper climbed in London as buyers in  China , the largest
consumer, took advantage of recent price declines to rebuild
stockpiles amid expectations for a global supply deficit.
Aluminum also gained.  Japan  Copper Cable Shipments Decline on Yen, Slowing Economy (1)  Japan’s copper wire and cable shipments slumped 7.5 percent
in July from a year earlier as the country’s economic growth
slowed and the strengthening yen weighed the outlook for
exports, an industry group said.  MINING:  Fortescue CEO Says Tight Credit ‘Cooling’ China Iron Ore Demand  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd.,  Australia ’s third-biggest
producer of iron ore, said tighter credit conditions in China
have slowed orders from  steel mills .  Vale to Spend $875 Million on Coking  Coal Mine  With Aquila (1)  Vale SA, the world’s biggest  iron ore  exporter, approved
spending $875 million to pay its share in the Eagle Downs coal
project in Queensland it owns with equal joint venture partner
Aquila Resources Ltd.  BHP Least Risky in Two Years as Profit Jumps: Australia Credit  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s credit-default swaps are Australia’s
best performers this year as slower growth at home and abroad
boosts the allure of a company forecast by analysts to report
record annual profit next week.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Jumps to Record, Set for Longest Weekly Rally Since 2007  Gold climbed to an all-time high and was poised for its
longest weekly winning streak since April 2007 as escalating
concern that the global economy is slowing sent equities and
commodities lower, spurring demand for a haven.  Spot Platinum, Platinum Futures Climb to Highest Since May  Spot platinum gained as much as 0.3 percent to $1,849.38 an
ounce, the highest price since May. October-delivery futures in
 New York  rose as much as 0.2 percent to $1,850.50 an ounce, also
the highest level since May.  AGRICULTURE:  Rubber Plunges Most in More Than One Week on Growth Concerns  Rubber declined for a fourth day, tumbling the most in more
than a week, amid concerns that a global economic slowdown may
reduce demand for the commodity used to make tires and gloves.  Palm Oil  Drops as Global Economic Growth Concern Weakens Demand  Palm oil declined, joining a slump in commodities from oil
to grains, on deepening concern that a slowing global economy
may reduce demand for the tropical commodity used in food and
fuel.  Japan Confirms First Case of Rice Contamination, Ministry Says  Brown rice from Ibaraki prefecture was found to contain 52
becquerels per kilogram of radioactive cesium, the first
discovery in Japan’s rice crop after the March earthquake and
tsunami crippled the Fukushima nuclear power plant, farm
ministry spokesman Yuichi Matsuda said today. The government’s
limit for cesium in grains is 500 becquerels per kilogram.  Vietnam May Release Rice Stockpiles to Cool Record Local Prices  Vietnam, the world’s second-largest rice exporter, may
release grain held in government stockpiles to cool the local
market after a surge in export demand helped to drive domestic
prices to a record.  Corn, Soybeans Drop on Growth Risk, Decline in U.S. Export Sales  Corn fell, extending its biggest decline yesterday in more
than a week, on concern that slowing economic growth would trim
demand and as U.S. exports fell from a year ago. Soybeans and
wheat dropped for a second day.  Palm Oil Drops as Global Economic Growth Concerns Weaken Demand  Palm oil declined, paring a weekly gain, on deepening
concern that a slowing global economy may reduce demand for the
tropical commodity used in food and fuel.  Indonesia  May Keep Palm Oil Shipment Tax at 15%, Halim Says  Indonesia may keep the  tax rate  on palm oil exports
unchanged at 15 percent in September and leave the base price
for calculating the levy unchanged at $1,017 per metric ton,
Steaven Halim, second secretary at the Indonesian Palm Oil
Association, said in an e-mail.  Corn, Soybeans Drop on Concern Slowing Economies May Cut Demand  Corn extended a decline by the most in more than a week on
concern that slowing global economic growth could trim demand
for the grain. Soybeans and wheat dropped for a second day.  ECONOMIES:  Hidden Money From  Hong Kong  Undermining Loan Curbs: China Credit  Chinese companies are borrowing record amounts from Hong
Kong’s banks as the central government tries to bring the
inflation rate down from a three-year high by reducing access to
credit.  Noda Pledges to Do His ‘Utmost’ to Alleviate Strong Yen Risk  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said currency-
market intervention needs to surprise and he’s ready to act to
stem gains in the yen that could derail an export-led recovery.  U.S. GDP Growth Estimates Cut at Citigroup on Fiscal Concern (1)  The  U.S. economy  may expand less than previously forecast
in 2011 and 2012 because of potential “political paralysis”
and fiscal tightening steps, Citigroup Inc. wrote in a report.  Italy,  Spain  Can ‘Probably’ Survive Crisis, Krugman Says (2)  Italy and Spain are at an increased risk of exiting the
euro as European leaders grapple with how to contain the
region’s sovereign debt crisis, Nobel economics laureate  Paul
Krugman  said.  OTHER MARKETS:  Asian Stocks, Oil Drop on Growth Concern; Treasuries, Gold Gain  Asian stocks slumped, dragging the region’s benchmark index
to a fourth weekly loss, while oil led commodities lower amid
concern the U.S. recovery is faltering and  Europe ’s debt crisis
will spread. Bonds and credit-default risk climbed, while gold
rallied to a record.  Dollar, Yen Gain on Slowing Growth, European Contagion Concern  The dollar and yen advanced against most of their major
counterparts as Asian stocks extended a worldwide rout in
equities amid speculation European banks lack sufficient
capital.  Oil Set for Fourth Weekly Drop as Brent Spread Widens to Record  Oil fell in New York, heading for a fourth weekly drop, as
investors bet fuel demand will falter amid signs of weaker
growth in the world’s biggest crude consumers. Brent traded at a
record premium to U.S. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  London  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  