-- 
Autonomy Sale Signals Software Boom as SAP May Be Targeted

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-08-19T15:53:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/europe-losing-autonomy-to-hp-signals-software-boom-as-sap-may-be-targeted.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s $10.3 billion
takeover of Autonomy Corp. bolstered valuations for European
software makers, highlighting their attraction compared with
hardware providers.  HP is paying about 24 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, a multiple that was last
matched by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s acquisition of Peoplesoft Inc. in
2003, according to data on comparable deals compiled by
Bloomberg.  SAP AG (SAP)  is seen as both a possible target, for
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  or  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , and as
a possible buyer, of companies such as Software AG and  Temenos
Group AG (TEMN) , analysts said.  As businesses seek to streamline IT departments, they’ve
been receptive to spending more on software that makes efficient
use of their hardware, resulting in reduced spending on physical
infrastructure. Meanwhile, consumers are spending less on
personal computers amid a growing market for tablet PCs.  “Simply put, hardware stinks and software is nirvana,”
said Sebastien Thevoux-Chabuel, an analyst at Oddo Securities. 
“The deal is a great reminder than software is the most 
strategic space in the IT market.”  HP Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  came from SAP, the
world’s largest maker of business-management software, based in
Walldorf, Germany.  SAP, which is 23.7 percent owned by founders including
Chairman  Hasso Plattner , could be a target, Theovoux-Chabuel
said.  ‘Strategic Asset’  “With some founders interested in selling their stakes at
a good price, SAP remains one of the most strategic assets for
Microsoft or IBM from an M&A standpoint,” he said.  At a similar valuation to that which HP is paying for
Cambridge, England-based Autonomy, SAP would cost about 100
euros per share compared with about 34 euros, Theovoux-Chabuel
said. He has a “buy” rating and 48 euros price target on SAP.  “We are in a very strong position with our portfolio and
innovation strategy to continue to grow organically or through
tuck-in acquisitions that bring value to our customers,”
spokesman Christoph Liedtke said in a telephone interview.  SAP closed unchanged at 34.26 euros in  Frankfurt  trading.  Josep Bori, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in  London , said
that for SAP the HP-Autonomy deal is a “missed opportunity.”  “This deal may rejuvenate the attractiveness of long-
rumored SAP targets  Software AG (SOW)  and Temenos,” Bori said in an
e-mail. He rates Software AG “outperform” with a 47 euros
price target and Temenos “outperform” with a 23-euro target.  Micro Focus   The Bloomberg EMEA Software Index jumped 5.4 percent today,
the biggest increase since March 2009, led by Autonomy, which
surged 72 percent to close at 24.52 pounds in London.  CEO Mike Lynch, who founded the Cambridge, England-based 
Autonomy in 1996, owns 8 percent of the company’s stock, 
according to Bloomberg data. At today's closing price, Lynch’s 
19.8 million shares of Autonomy are worth 485 million 
pounds, or $780 million. Lynch, speaking in a June interview, 
said U.K. software companies are cheaper than their U.S. 
counterparts.  “If you look at the numbers, then the U.K. software sector
looks undervalued relative to the U.S.,” Lynch said at the time.  Software AG rose 5.8 percent to 28.10 euros in Frankfurt,
while Temenos climbed 5.4 percent to 14.55 euros in Zurich.
 Misys Plc (MSY) , whose talks to be bought by  Fidelity National
Information Services Inc. (FIS)  fell through earlier this year,
advanced 6.1 percent to 249 pence in London.  Software AG  Software AG is interested in consolidating its own market,
spokesman Otmar Winzig said in a telephone interview today. “We
are acquisitive,” he said.  The company “wouldn’t expect a hostile takeover to work
with our current shareholder structure,” he said. Still, a
“win-win situation” in which a deal would enhance “the
technology leadership,” can’t be ruled out, Winzig said.  Another  software company  that may become a target is  Micro
Focus International Plc (MCRO) , Rajeev Bahl, a London-based analyst at
Matrix Corporate Capital LLP, said in an interview. Newbury,
England-based Micro Focus is “supremely cheap,” he said.  Sage
Group Plc (SGE) , the U.K.’s biggest software maker, is more likely to
be a buyer than a target at the moment,” he said.  “Tech is globally very cheap, the companies throw
absolutely bucketloads of cash off and the U.K is even
cheaper,” Tim Daniels, TMT strategist at Olivetree Securities,
said in an interview.  High Multiple  Micro Focus advanced 3.5 percent to 263 pence in London,
while Sage climbed 1.8 percent to 235.8 pence.  HP’s Autonomy offer is 64 percent more than Autonomy’s
close yesterday and 24 times trailing Ebitda, compared with a
median of 17 times Ebitda in 10 comparable deals, Bloomberg data
show.  “The timing is wrong and the takeover price is by far too
high,” said Heinz Steffen, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH & Co.
in Kronberg,  Germany . Apotheker should streamline HP’s
organization first before making a big software acquisition, he
said, calling yesterday’s announcement “desperate action” that
may have resulted from pressure from the market.  “Our focus on building a successful software business has
momentum,” Apotheker said on a conference call yesterday.
“We are focusing on what needs to be fixed, what needs to be
shut down, and what needs to be considered for separation.”  Temenos spokeswoman Petra Shuttlewood didn’t immediately
return a call for comment. David Shriver, a spokesman for Sage,
and Clare Thomas, a spokeswoman for Micro Focus, declined to
comment. A spokesman for ARM declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  