-- 
Teva Not Responsible for Hepatitis Outbreak, Lawyer Says

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-08-19T19:29:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/teva-not-responsible-for-nevada-hepatitis-outbreak-lawyer-tells-jurors.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s biggest generic-drug maker, isn’t responsible for a
2008 hepatitis outbreak in  Nevada  blamed on the misuse of vials
of the anesthetic  propofol , a lawyer for the company said.  Patients developed hepatitis C after receiving propofol
during colonoscopies, Mark Tully, a lawyer for Teva, told jurors
today in a trial of three lawsuits against the company. Doctors
and medical personnel who performed the procedures are to blame,
he said in opening statements.  “Whatever happened at the clinics happened solely at the
clinics,” Tully told jurors in state court in  Las Vegas . “What
went wrong had nothing to do with the bottles of propofol.”  Three Las Vegas residents contend that Teva, along with
drug distributors  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  and  McKesson Corp. (MCK) ,
sold propofol in “jumbo-sized” vials that encouraged doctors
to reuse the container in multiple procedures. The plaintiffs
contend the companies sold the vials knowing they could help
spread blood-borne diseases, such as hepatitis.  Teva faced almost 300 lawsuits stemming from the Nevada
hepatitis  outbreak , the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company said
in a regulatory filing last month. The trial of the first case
against Teva and Baxter last year resulted in a verdict of more
than $500 million in damages against the drugmakers.  Vials Reused?  Probes by Nevada health officials and the federal  Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention  blamed the reuse of propofol
vials for infecting patients with the incurable liver disease.
Propofol is an intravenous agent used for sedation or
anesthesia, according to Teva’s  website.   Last year, a state grand jury indicted Dr.  Dipak Desai , who
ran the Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada at the time of the
outbreak, on criminal charges. Desai’s case has been delayed
after a judge found him incompetent to stand trial. He also
faces federal charges over the outbreak.  Teva manufactures the generic version of the drug and San
Francisco-based McKesson is its current U.S. distributor.
Baxter, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , sold the drug for Teva
until 2009, according to court filings.  The drugmaker already agreed to resolve about one-third of
the hepatitis-related suits alleging patients received propofol
from reused containers, according to a July 28 filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Lawyers for Anne Arnold,  Richard Sacks  and Anthony Devito
told the Las Vegas jury yesterday that they will show Teva’s 50-
milliliter propofol containers aren’t designed as “single-use”
vials and the drugmaker didn’t properly warn doctors about the
dangers of “double-dipping” into the anesthetic.  Warning Labels  Teva contends propofol’s label warns doctors to only use
the container once and that any contamination is the fault of
medical personnel violating established practices, according to
court filings.  Tully, a Boston-based lawyer for Teva, told jurors today
that Arnold, Sacks and Devito may have contracted their
illnesses from dirty medical equipment, such as scopes and
syringes, rather than from reused propofol vials.  The lawyer said he would produce evidence showing that
colonoscopy scopes at the clinics “were not cleaned properly”
before they were reused. Tully also noted that state and federal
regulators hadn’t ruled out the possibility that the hepatitis
was transmitted by tainted equipment.  Teva, as a drug manufacturer, “doesn’t police clinics”
and can’t be held responsible for the actions of medical
providers using its products, Tully said.  The case is Sacks v. Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada
LLC, 08A572315, Clark County District Court (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  