-- 
HP Tumbles as Strategic Shift Leads to ‘Lost Confidence’

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-08-19T20:27:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/hewlett-packard-falls-most-in-31-years-after-plan-to-spin-off-pc-business.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  fell the most in
more than 23 years after issuing forecasts that missed analysts’
estimates and unveiling a set of strategic shifts that
undermined confidence in the company’s management.  Hewlett-Packard, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , dropped
$5.91, or 20 percent, to $23.60 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock
Exchange. The decline was the largest since October 19, 1987,
the market crash known as Black Monday. The drop erased $16.2
billion from Hewlett-Packard’s market value since Aug. 17, the
day before the company’s plans were made public.  Leo Apotheker  cut sales forecasts for the third time since
becoming CEO in November, citing tepid demand. He’s spinning off
the personal computer unit, dropping a five-month-old plan to
put the WebOS mobile software on devices and purchasing Autonomy
Corp. for $10.3 billion. While aimed at helping adding higher-
margin products, the shifts are costly and may be time
consuming, said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co.  “People just lost confidence in the company,” said
Marshall, who is based in  San Francisco  and has a “buy” rating
on the stock. “People are realizing the financial model is in
greater disarray than they previously thought.”  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service said they
may cut their credit ratings on Hewlett-Packard’s debt. S&P
gives the company its A rating and Moody’s ranks it A2, both the
sixth level of investment grade.  Investors may be concerned by the amount of time it will
take to execute the changes, Marshall said. Evaluation of
strategic options for the PC unit may take 12 to 18 months to
complete, the company said.  ‘Stretched Thin’  Hewlett-Packard yesterday also issued sales and profit
forecasts for the current quarter that missed analysts’
estimates. It will have to execute the strategic changes as it
competes against rivals such as  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)   At least six analysts slashed their ratings for the stock.
Deutsche Bank AG’s Christopher Whitmore lowered his rating to
“sell” from “hold” and said the stock is worth $20. Needham
& Co.’s Richard Kugele cut it to “underperform” from “buy.”  “We are worried that HPQ may be stretched thin trying to
do too many things at the same time,” said Shaw Wu, an analyst
at Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc., in a research note today. Wu,
based in San Francisco, downgraded the shares to “neutral.”  Apotheker is pushing a sweeping overhaul of the company
that hearkens back to his two-decade career at  SAP AG. (SAP)  With the
plans announced yesterday, Apotheker, 57, aims to make good on
pledges to expand in cloud computing and challenge Oracle and
IBM in more profitable products aimed at corporations. Business
software delivered a 19 percent operating margin last quarter,
more than triple the amount for the PC unit to be jettisoned.  ‘Repeatable Revenue’  The Autonomy purchase is Hewlett-Packard’s largest since
the $13.2 billion acquisition of Electronic Data Systems Corp.
in 2008 and Apotheker’s biggest deal since becoming CEO. In
February, he orchestrated the purchase of data-analysis company
Vertica for an undisclosed price.  Hewlett-Packard also said it’s discontinuing products that
run WebOS software, which it acquired last year in the $1.2
billion purchase of Palm Inc. The operating system, which powers
smartphones and tablet computers, fell short of “internal
milestones and financial targets,” Hewlett-Packard said
yesterday.  With the shift, Hewlett-Packard “separates out a lower-
return business from a higher-return business, and you’ll end up
with one that is a better business long-term,” said Don Yacktman, founder of Yacktman Asset Management Co. in Austin,
 Texas , which oversees $11 billion and holds Hewlett-Packard
shares. “Software is a more repeatable revenue stream.”  Apotheker’s Record  Apotheker, who hails from  Germany  and speaks five
languages, rose through SAP’s sales and marketing operations,
becoming sole CEO in 2009. He was ousted from Walldorf, Germany-
based SAP, the top maker of business-management software, in
February 2010.  His tenure as CEO was blemished by an attempted price
increase during the recession that rankled consumers and by a
clash with German unions on plans to cut jobs. He resigned after
presiding over the company’s first revenue decline since 2003 as
customers delayed software purchases.  He joined Hewlett-Packard after  Mark Hurd  departed as CEO
amid a scandal over a personal relationship with a company
contractor. Hurd now is a co-president at Oracle.  As he assumed control of Hewlett-Packard, the company faced
slowing revenue growth and increasing competition in cloud
computing, the delivery of software and storage over the
Internet.  Software Expansion  Apotheker vowed to buy more companies with software
expertise, improve product quality and boost spending on
research and development.  While Apotheker is following up on his software pledge,
he’s backtracking on efforts to make the WebOS operating system
a viable competitor to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   WebOS has been suffering, Hewlett-Packard said yesterday.
The business had an operating loss of $332 million in the fiscal
third quarter on sales of $266 million, chief financial officer
Cathie Lesjak said on a conference call. Losses would have
widened if the business continued, she said.  “We have better ways to use that capital,” than trying to
revive WebOS, Apotheker said in an interview yesterday. “Sales
of HP TouchPads were not meeting my expectations.”  In the PC business, competitors’ tablets have cut into
sales and consumers are changing how they compute, Apotheker
added. “We want to sharpen the focus of HP.”  Unwinnable War  Apotheker is exiting WebOS products just a month after the
company named Palm’s former CEO  Jon Rubinstein  to head of
product development and innovation for the personal systems
group, which includes PCs, tablets and smartphones.  Apotheker said in March that all of the company’s PCs will
feature WebOS, a shift away from machines that only run
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows operating system.  “He’s decided he just can’t win that war,” said Maribel Lopez, founder of Lopez Research in San Francisco. “If he’s not
going to be in devices on the PC side, it makes no sense to be
in devices on the phone side.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  