-- 
HP to Keep Supporting ‘Not Dead’ WebOS Software, Executive Says

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-08-20T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/hewlett-packard-webos-software-bought-with-palm-not-dead-dewitt-says.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  plans to keep
supporting and updating the WebOS software it acquired in last
year’s $1.2 billion purchase of Palm Inc., Senior Vice President
Stephen DeWitt said in an interview.  “The WebOS is not dead,” said DeWitt, who took charge of
WebOS last month. “We’re going to continue to evolve it, update
and support it. We stand by it.”  The comments came a day after Hewlett-Packard said it’s
weighing strategic options for the mobile operating system and
ending sales of devices running WebOS, including smartphones and
the TouchPad tablet. The company is considering partnerships and
licensing deals with manufacturers that may use the software in
their devices, DeWitt said. WebOS has an appeal beyond consumer
markets, and may be alluring to companies in finance,
transportation and retailing, he said.  “The whole world isn’t just about tablets and phones,”
DeWitt said yesterday. “There are going to be appliances of so
many different sizes and shapes in the future that are going to
require a human interface for data.”  Hewlett-Packard Chief Executive  Leo Apotheker  said this
week he’s abandoning a strategy he announced in March to land
WebOS on all of his company’s computers. The about-face came
after Hewlett-Packard failed to lure consumers to devices
running WebOS, once considered a potential rival to the mobile
software distributed by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google Inc.  Licensing Talks  Hewlett-Packard also struggled to get software developers
to build applications that would complement WebOS. DeWitt said
he hopes to lure more developers by emphasizing an “open”
strategy that will help apps attract users on many types of
devices rather than just one.  He contrasted that with Apple Inc.’s approach.  “If you want to jump into the Apple ecosystem and be one
of the gazillion in there and live by Apple’s rules, so be it,”
DeWitt said. “Our strategy is to be more open, to be a platform
that has extensibility to other environments -- not the closed
architecture.”  Exploring options for WebOS is part of a broader strategy
overhaul that includes spinning off the personal computer unit
and acquiring software maker Autonomy Corp. for $10.3 billion.  Hewlett-Packard has already held talks to license the WebOS
mobile software to other hardware makers, Apotheker said in an
interview earlier this year. Samsung discussed using WebOS in
its smartphones, three people with knowledge of the discussions
said in June.  Controlling Patents  Licensing WebOS, rather than selling the business, would
let Hewlett-Packard retain control of the technology’s
underlying patents. Companies are bulking up on patents to get
the cover they need to charge licensing fees on key technology
while protecting against infringement litigation.  Google announced a $12.5 billion bid to acquire Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc., holder of 17,000 patents and 7,500
patent applications., earlier this week. A group led by Apple
and Microsoft Corp. won an auction of patents owned by Nortel
Networks Corp. in June after bidding up the price to $4.5
billion, beating out Google.  Palm’s “patents will be worth a lot of money,” said
Rivette, who is managing partner at 3LP Advisors LLC in  Palo
Alto . Palm was “one of the originals on screen design and
interface design, even before Apple. They’ve got a lot of
history here, which is exactly the reason why everyone wanted
the Nortel patents and the Motorola patents.”  Sale Prospects  DeWitt didn’t rule out a potential sale of WebOS. The
software and its patents may be attractive to hardware makers
including  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,  HTC Corp. (2498) , Samsung Electronics Co. and  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570) , said Frank Gillett, analyst at  Forrester
Research Inc. (FORR)   “If Dell thought they had the chutzpah to jump in, this is
the time to do it,” said Gillett, who is based in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts . “For the Asian device makers who have been
trying to break out from making hardware for others to making
their own branded stuff, here’s the chance to buy their own
operating system.”  David Frink , a spokesman for  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell,
declined to comment on potential acquisitions, as did Winston Yung, chief financial officer for HTC, and  James Chung , a Seoul-
based spokesman for Samsung.  “It’s an interesting scenario, but we never had any
serious plans to acquire our own mobile operating system,” Ken
Hong, a Seoul-based spokesman for LG, said by telephone.  Compensating TouchPad Owners  With patents fetching such high sums, Hewlett-Packard could
more than make up for the $1.2 billion it paid for Palm, Michael
Morgan, an analyst at  ABI Research , wrote in a research note
this week.  Before selling to Hewlett-Packard, Palm’s board considered
a bid to acquire its patents for $800 million instead of selling
the entire business, according to a statement sent to Palm
shareholders last year. The board decided “the intellectual
property transaction was substantially less desirable to Palm’s
stockholders than an outright sale,” the statement said.  Hewlett-Packard may offer compensation to customers who
purchased a TouchPad, which the company released in July before
shutting operations on the tablet computer, DeWitt said.  “We’re going to obviously take care of every TouchPad
customer,” DeWitt said.  The WebOS business lost HP $332 million in the fiscal third
quarter on sales of $266 million, chief financial officer Cathie Lesjak said on a call with analysts on Aug. 18. Fourth quarter
results would have been even worse if the operation continued,
she said.  “WebOS itself is a fairly compelling platform,” said
 Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at Stamford, Connecticut-based
Gartner Inc. “It needs a good home, which is something that
it’s lacked.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  