-- 
Hewlett-Packard’s PC Unit May Lure Lenovo, Samsung Electronics as Suitors

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a ,   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   E d m o n d   L o c o c o
-- 
2011-08-19T09:30:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/hewlett-packard-s-pc-unit-may-lure-lenovo-samsung-as-bidders.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s plans to
unload its personal-computer business, the world’s biggest, may
attract  China ’s  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and  South Korea ’s Samsung
Electronics Co. as suitors, analysts said.  Lenovo, the Chinese company that bought International
Business Machines Corp.’s PC business in 2005, would be a
leading candidate, analysts at technology research firms Ovum
Ltd. and IDC said. Samsung may also be interested because the
purchase may complement its geographic and product mix, said
Carter Lusher, a researcher at Ovum.  Hewlett-Packard said yesterday it may shed the unit as
Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  plans to overhaul the 72-
year-old company to focus more on software and enterprise
customers. Credit Suisse Group AG estimates the division may be
worth $12 billion, which may make a sale the PC industry’s
biggest since Hewlett-Packard bought Compaq Computer Corp. in
2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The PC business is still going to be a huge business with
great opportunities for a company that can manage it
correctly,” Lusher said in a telephone interview. “The tablets
are hot new flavors, but remember hundreds of millions of PCs
are sold every year.”  The  Palo Alto , California-based company said yesterday it
plans to separate its PC division within 18 months, discontinue
making products that run WebOS software and purchase software-
maker Autonomy Corp. for $10.3 billion.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the second-
largest PC maker, also is focusing more on services, though PCs
still make up about half its sales.  Worldwide Leaders  Jay Chen, a Lenovo spokesman in Beijing, declined to
comment on whether his employer would be interested in the
Hewlett-Packard business.  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman
for Samsung, declined to comment on whether the company could
buy the business.  Samsung and Lenovo may pursue a purchase “to establish
themselves as worldwide leaders,” IDC said in a report today.
“Both companies have aggressive growth plans and, if executed,
would instantly reset the entire PC world.”  For Lenovo, the world’s third-largest PC vendor, buying the
Hewlett-Packard unit would help the company more than double its
share of global sales and vault past Dell, the No. 2 producer. A
purchase may also help the company benefit from the lower costs
associated with economies of scale, said  Steven Tseng , a Hong
Kong-based analyst with Samsung Securities Co.  “In a mature business, volume is everything,” Tseng said.
“From Lenovo’s perspective then, why not buy the brand and
expand market share? If they were to acquire HP, the difference
with other competitors would become huge.”  U.S. Market Share  Based on second-quarter shipments estimates by research
firm Gartner Inc., Lenovo’s market share would surge to 30
percent from 12 percent. That’s more than double the 13 percent
share held by No. 2 producer Dell and No. 4 Acer’s 11 percent.  A purchase may also help the Chinese company in overseas
markets, Tseng said. The maker of ThinkPad laptops, which gets
48 percent of its revenue at home, isn’t even among the top five
sellers in the U.S., according to estimates at Gartner.  Acquiring the Hewlett-Packard unit would help Samsung, the
world’s largest maker of memory chips, televisions and displays,
extend its lead as the biggest electronics manufacturer by
revenue. Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung aims to raise laptop
computer sales by 80 percent this year as it rolls out new high-
end models, the company said in February.  WebOS Attraction  Not everyone expects Samsung to be in the mix. Mark Newman,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said
Samsung may rather be interested in Hewlett-Packard’s WebOS than
the PC business as the Korean company competes against  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  in smartphones and tablets.  “They’re definitely interested in PC, but there’s little
to gain from buying a PC hardware business,” Newman said.
“WebOS would be a good asset for them to own if they could.”  Google Inc., maker of the Android operating system,
disclosed this week it agreed to buy Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. for $12.5 billion as it seeks to forestall patent
litigation and compete with Apple in the smartphone market.  Foxconn Technology Group, which makes PCs for Hewlett-
Packard, and  Taiwan ’s Acer may be also interested in the
Hewlett-Packard unit, Ovum’s Lusher said. Dell is unlikely to be
interested because the company, like Hewlett-Packard, aims to
reduce its reliance in PCs and focus more on software, services
and cloud computing, Tseng said.  Edmund Ding , a spokesman for Foxconn’s flagship Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co., didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone
or e-mails. Henry Wang, a spokesman for Acer, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation.  Global personal-computer shipments in the second quarter
rose less than forecast amid a sluggish economy and consumer
preference for smartphones and Apple’s iPad media tablet,
according to market-research firms.  Shipments climbed 2.6 percent, IDC said last month, shy of
the 2.9 percent increase the researcher had forecast. Gartner
said PC sales rose 2.3 percent from a year earlier, compared
with the 6.7 percent gain the firm predicted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  