-- 
FAA Imposes Stricter Rules for Flights in Icing Conditions

-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 
2011-08-19T19:42:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/faa-imposes-stricter-icing-rules-for-commuter-jets-to-eliminate-guesswork.html
Commuter-airline pilots must take
additional steps to combat ice buildup on wings under rules
released today by the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration .  Prompted by a series of incidents, the FAA will require
airlines flying planes weighing less than 60,000 pounds to
install sensors that detect ice and warn pilots, or tell their
pilots to automatically switch on anti-icing equipment sooner
than has been the case.  The FAA said in the  rule , which takes effect in 60 days,
that there has been a series of cases in which pilots didn’t
realize ice was forming on a plane’s wings and didn’t activate
anti-icing equipment. Even microscopic layers of ice crystals
can destroy wings’ ability to keep a plane aloft.  “This rule is meant to prevent that from happening again
by giving flightcrews a clear means of knowing when to activate
the airframe ice protection system,” the FAA said.  The rule will cost airlines $12.7 million while saving them
$27.2 million by preventing crashes and deaths, the agency said.  Regional jets such as the Bombardier CRJ-100 and the
Embraer ERJ-145 weigh less than 60,000 pounds. The majority of
the 2,500 planes flown by U.S. regional airlines will have to
comply with the rule, according to data from the Washington-
based Regional Airline Association, whose members include  AMR
Corp. (AMR) ’s American Eagle and  Great Lakes Aviation Ltd. (GLUX)   “We want pilots to have the best technology available to
detect icing conditions so they can take the steps necessary to
ensure passenger safety,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a statement.  American Eagle  The FAA said its research into icing hazards began after
the Oct. 31, 1994, crash of an American Eagle ATR-72 turboprop
plane in Roselawn,  Indiana , due to ice, killing all 68 people
aboard.  U.S. and European regulators had not done enough to protect
planes from ice, the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board
found in its investigation.  The NTSB, in correspondence between the two agencies,
praised the new standards while asking the FAA to broaden the
rule to larger planes such as Bombardier Inc.’s Q400 turboprop.
The FAA declined, saying there was no evidence that these planes
are susceptible to icing.  Larger jets made by Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  use hot air
from  jet engines  to melt ice off wings and have not been as
plagued by ice hazards as smaller turboprops, the FAA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  