-- 
Fed’s Pianalto Says Weak Growth Warrants Holding Rates Near Zero Until ’13

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-08-19T13:51:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/fed-s-pianalto-says-weak-growth-warrants-holding-rates-near-zero-until-13.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said weak economic growth warranted a
pledge to hold interest rates near zero until mid-2013.  “With my diminished outlook for economic growth, and my
outlook for inflation to soon fall back to 2 percent, I was in
favor of providing additional support to the recovery at last
week’s FOMC meeting,” Pianalto said today in a speech in
Columbus, Ohio.  “Under the circumstances, I think it made sense to take
the unprecedented step of including that conditional guidance in
our press statement,” Pianalto said at the Community Bankers
Association of Ohio Annual Convention.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  last week
pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at
least mid-2013 to revive a recovery that it said is
“considerably slower” than anticipated. The Fed made the rate
pledge after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. government’s
credit rating and  Europe ’s debt crisis worsened, roiling markets
worldwide.  Fed officials on Aug. 9 “discussed the range of policy
tools” available to boost growth and are “prepared to employ
those tools as appropriate,” the FOMC said. Three policy makers
dissented from the decision, the most since 1992.  That outlook could change as more economic data arrive,
according to Pianalto, who said in response to an audience
question that “it depends on how economic conditions evolve
before we would take actions and use these additional tools that
we have to provide further accommodation or begin to remove
accommodation.”  Economic Growth  “My latest forecast is for the economy to grow at a rate
of about 2 percent this year, and about 3 percent in each of the
next two years,” she said. “Our economy has to grow at about a
2 1/2 percent clip just to absorb new labor force entrants and
to keep the  unemployment rate  from rising.”  Pianalto said that banks are better positioned to weather a
weaker economy. “The condition of banks has improved,” she
said in response to an audience question. “We have seen asset
quality stabilize, loan losses stabilize and actually profits
have improved.”  Before the Fed’s meeting, the Commerce Department said the
economy grew at a 1.3 percent rate in the second quarter and 0.4
percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace since the second
quarter of 2009.  Pianalto said the report was a “lightning bolt” and that
“the new statistics gave us two critically important pieces of
information. First, we learned that the magnitude of the
recession was worse than we had thought, and second, we learned
that growth in the first half of this year was considerably
slower than we had expected.”  The Philadelphia Fed yesterday said its index of
manufacturing in the region plummeted to minus 30.7 in August,
the weakest reading since March 2009, when the economy was still
in recession. Stocks fell after the report. The  S&P 500 Index 
slumped 4.5 percent to close at 1,140.65 in New York trading
yesterday.  Spending Concern  “The recent volatility we have seen in equity markets is
both an expression of worry and yet another cause for worry
about  consumer spending ,” she said. “When I put all of these
facts together, I do not expect much of an economic boost from
consumer spending anytime soon.”  Pianalto, 57, became president of the Cleveland Fed in
2003. She is not a voting member of the FOMC this year and has
never dissented from a FOMC decision. Fed presidents rotate
voting on monetary policy, with Pianalto voting every other
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Columbus,  Ohio  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  