-- 
Fed’s Dudley Says U.S. Economic Performance ‘Mixed,’ Banks in Better Shape

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-08-19T14:42:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/fed-s-dudley-predicts-stronger-growth-in-second-half-of-2011.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said U.S. economic performance is
“at worst, mixed,” with negative news offset by loosening
credit, firmer retail sales and stronger bank balance sheets.  Banks are “in much better shape” than a year ago, with
“huge liquidity buffers compared to where they were in 2008,”
Dudley said today in response to an audience question after a
speech in Lyndhurst,  New Jersey . Real-estate financing is “a
little more available today than” 12 months ago.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  on Aug. 9
pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at
least mid-2013 to revive an economic recovery that’s
“considerably slower” than anticipated. Fed officials also
“discussed the range of policy tools” available to boost
growth and are “prepared to employ those tools as
appropriate,” the FOMC said.  Dudley said in a speech that he expects growth to
accelerate in the second half of the year as the impact of
“temporary factors” such as the earthquake in  Japan  and higher
commodity prices subsides.  “These restraining forces have abated and thus, we should
see stronger growth in the second half,” Dudley, 58, said in
Lyndhurst, New Jersey. “But it is clear that not all of the
weakness was due to these one-time factors -- and in light of
this, I have revised down my expectations for the pace of
recovery going forward.”  His remarks were similar to those given in  Newark , New
Jersey, yesterday, and in New York last week.  Biggest Two-Day Loss  Global stocks slid, dragging European shares to the biggest
two-day loss since 2009, amid growing concern the economic
recovery is faltering. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined
0.2 percent at 10:13 a.m. in New York, extending a fourth
straight weekly slump. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 1.1
percent after falling 4.8 percent yesterday.  More than $6 trillion has been erased from global equities
this month on signs the U.S. recovery is stumbling, while the
cost of insuring European sovereign debt is back to levels that
triggered the region’s central bank to buy Italian and Spanish
bonds on Aug. 8.  “Following the release of the FOMC’s statement, market
interest rates generally removed lower, which should help
provide some additional support for economic activity and
jobs,” Dudley said. “I would note, however, that conditions
remain unsettled and the equity market in particular has been
quite volatile recently.”  He reiterated that policy makers gave a “sober
assessment” of the outlook and that he has cut his forecast for
growth. He didn’t quantify his new forecast.  Rate Pledge  The Fed made the rate pledge after  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded the U.S. government’s credit rating and Europe’s debt
crisis worsened, roiling markets worldwide. The S&P 500 Index of
stocks tumbled 18 percent from the end of April through Aug. 8.  While the FOMC didn’t specify which tools it’s considering
using, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in July that if the
recovery weakens, the Fed may weigh beginning a third round of
bond purchases or pledge to keep its balance sheet at a record
high for a longer period of time. The Fed purchased $1.7
trillion of Treasury and mortgage debt from December 2008 to
March 2010, and another $600 billion of Treasuries from November
through June.  The economy grew at a weaker-than-projected 1.3 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, a July 29 government report
said. Growth in the prior quarter slowed to a 0.4 percent pace,
the weakest three-month period since the recovery began in June
2009.  The Fed is “committed” to controlling inflation and
“well-anchored” inflation expectations indicate that Americans
believe the central bank will do so, Dudley said in response to
an audience question.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  