-- 
Finland Open to Broadening Collateral Deal to More Countries

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-08-19T11:37:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/finland-open-to-broadening-collateral-deal.html
Finland  said it is open to
broadening a collateral deal it struck with  Greece  after another
four euro members said they wanted a similar arrangement in
return for backing more aid for Europe’s most-indebted country.  The deal was negotiated “between the two countries” and
Finland “sought to find a model that these two countries can
agree on,” Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said in an
interview yesterday in Helsinki. “Finland doesn’t oppose
extending collateral to other countries.”  Austria and the Netherlands, which both share a AAA credit
rating with Finland, and Slovenia and Slovakia will probably
pursue collateral arrangements after the northernmost euro
member was able to strike an agreement with Greece this week,
the countries said yesterday. Extending the deal could “blow
up” the rescue plan,  Austria ’s Finance Minister Maria Fekter
told press yesterday.  The collateral demands were included in a July 21 agreement
by euro-area leaders to provide a new 159 billion-euro ($229
billion) aid package for Greece and grant broader powers to the
region’s rescue fund. At the summit Finland fought for extra
assurances it won’t lose money on its backing for the European
Financial Stability Facility. The July 21 agreement needs to be
ratified nationally.  Bilateral Solutions  The Greek two-year yield climbed 200 basis points to 37.33
percent as of 12:30 a.m. in  London , breaching 37 percent for the
first time since July 21. The yield reached a record 40.46
percent on July 20. The 10-year yield rose 42 basis points to
16.42 percent.  Finland asked for the collateral deal after its April 17
parliamentary election showed voters were balking at the
prospect of contributing to more rescues. The euro-skeptic True
Finns became the country’s third-biggest party just behind the
 Social Democrats , which Urpilainen leads. Her popularity rose
after she pledged to fight for tougher terms for bailout
recipients.  “People showed in the parliamentary election that they
want tighter rules on bailouts and limits to Finland’s
liabilities,” Urpilainen said. “Finland has been very open
since the spring about the fact that it will only participate in
the next Greek program if collateral is forthcoming.”  Cash Deposit  The Aug. 16 agreement with the government in  Athens 
requires Greece to deposit cash in a state account that Finland
will invest in AAA rated bonds. The deposit will be equal to 20
percent of the collateral need, Austria’s Fekter said yesterday.
The interest generated will raise the amount, which has yet to
be disclosed, to cover Finland’s bailout contribution.  Collateral demands from all contributing euro members would
make the package “financially unviable,” Fekter said. “If
every country demanded 20 percent, the entire package would blow
up.”  Euro area ministers must approve the bilateral agreement,
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told Athens-based
Skai Radio today.  “The truth is we would have preferred if this public
announcement had come after the matter had been discussed first
at the level of euro-region members,” Venizelos said.
“Everything depends on the approval of the other euro-area
members.”  The European Commission spokesman Amadeu Altafaj today
warned against introducing new conditions that would lead to
“excessive collateralization” regarding Greece.  Seeking Transparency  “Finland has sought to be transparent in the process and
to inform other euro countries as openly as possible,”
Urpilainen said at a press briefing yesterday. “The next few
weeks will tell how others react to this.”  Greece won a second bailout after a previous 110 billion-
euro package failed to prevent the spread of  Europe ’s debt
crisis. The new plan includes 50 billion euros in contributions
from private investors through bond exchanges and buybacks to
cut Europe’s biggest debt load. The new plan won’t be completed
before October, according to Venizelos.  Finland is still working out how to invest the collateral
cash. “We haven’t drawn up the investment plan yet,”
Urpilainen said, when asked which bonds Finland is considering.
“The main thing is we have agreed on the model.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  