-- 
Fortescue CEO Says Tight Credit Crimps China Iron Ore Demand

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-08-19T06:27:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/fortescue-ceo-says-tight-credit-cooling-demand-for-iron-ore-in-china.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,
Australia’s third-biggest producer of iron ore, said tighter
credit conditions in  China  have slowed orders from  steel mills .  “There’s no question that the tightening of credit in
China has started to moderate demand in a small way,” Neville Power, chief executive officer of Perth-based Fortescue, told
reporters today on a conference call after reporting full-year
profit rose 76 percent.  Chinese policy makers have introduced loan quotas and
higher  reserve requirements  in their bid to curb inflation,
which quickened to 6.5 percent in July, compared with 3.6
percent in the U.S. and 2.5 percent in the euro region.
Citigroup Inc. this week lowered its three-month iron ore
forecast to $160 a metric ton.  “While we’ve not had any impact on a month-to-month basis,
we have seen perhaps a cooling off as you look forward in the
market,” Power said.  Fortescue fell 5 percent to A$5.75 at the 4:10 p.m. close
of Sydney trading, compared with a 8.4 percent drop in the
benchmark index. The stock has fallen 12 percent this year.  Iron ore  prices are set to stay at “elevated” levels
until at least 2015 because of short supply, forecaster Wood
Mackenzie Ltd. said last month. Fortescue, which sells almost
all of its ore to China, also expects iron ore markets to stay
strong in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  China Usage  “Looking at the next five years, the Chinese 12th, five-
year plan is still very intensive in steel consumption and
demand,” David Liu, Fortescue’s head of China sales and
marketing, said on the call. “So we still see underlying
requirement for steel to remain very, very strong.”  Demand in China, the biggest consumer of metals, will keep
iron ore markets in deficit this year and next year, even in the
event of zero growth in  Europe  and  North America , Macquarie Bank
Ltd. said yesterday in a note. The average price Fortescue got
for its ore in the year rose 68 percent to $149 a ton.  Fortescue’s net income rose 31 percent to $706 million in
the six months ended June 30, according to figures calculated by
Bloomberg and confirmed by the company. This compares with a
mean estimate of $777 million of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Full-year net income was $1.02 billion.  Annual profit missed analyst estimates because of a bigger
currency loss and res-estimation of the value of its unsecured
notes, Mike Harrowell, Sydney-based senior resources analyst at
BBY Ltd., said in an e-mailed statement.  The cost of sales rose 30 percent to $5.4 billion in the 12
months to June 30 with a cash balance of $2.7 billion, the
company said. It will pay a final dividend of 4 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  