-- 
G-20 Weakened by Failure to Coordinate Policy, South Africa’s Gordhan Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-08-19T09:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/g-20-weakened-by-failure-to-coordinate-policy-south-africa-s-gordhan-says.html
The Group of 20 has become less
effective in its role of managing financial crises just as the
world risks falling back into recession, South African Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  A lack of coordination on economic policy, including
exchange rates, has undermined the G-20 in the past 18 months to
two years, Gordhan said in a Bloomberg TV interview from
 Pretoria  yesterday.  “The G-20 hasn’t done well,” Gordhan said. “We haven’t
captured the opportunities we could have in order to engage in
more coordinated action.”  Gordhan’s comments follow an opinion piece he co-authored
with finance chiefs from  Singapore  and other G-20 members
Canada, U.K. and  Australia  in the Financial Times on Aug. 15
calling for “political courage” to help prevent the global
economic recovery stalling. Equity markets around the world have
slumped this month, while gold climbed to a record of $1,867.95
an ounce today as concern mounted that the world economy was
heading for another recession amid a debt crisis in the U.S. and
 Europe .  “The consensus around the world is that a key role needs
to be played by decision-makers,” Gordhan said. “We are going
to require bold leadership, we are going to require what Bank of
England’s  Mervyn King  once called a grand bargain between
different players across the world, in order that we can lay a
platform for a more successful decade for the global economy.”  Debt Crisis  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has lost 3.2 percent this
week and is down 16 percent from its April 29 high. South
Africa’s benchmark FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index slumped 7.3
percent this month, while the rand has dropped 7.2 percent
against the dollar.  Gordhan called for firmer action in Europe to deal with a
debt crisis that threatens to engulf Italy and  Spain . Europe
accounts for about a third of South African manufactured
exports.  “Whatever route they take, they need to be decisive, they
need to do it in the shortest possible time and they need to
create confidence around the world that the euro-region is back
on its feet,” Gordhan said.  South Africa lost 1 million jobs after the 2008 financial
crisis pushed the economy into its first recession in 17 years,
while the rand has surged 30 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of 2009 as  interest rates  near zero in the U.S.
and EU fueled demand for higher-yielding assets.  “There are many countries today, including the Swiss and
our own, whose manufacturing sectors are grappling with serious
challenges as a result partly because of the currency issue,”
Gordhan said. “We could have done a few things with a greater
sense of urgency.”  South Africa , one of 10 emerging markets represented in the
group, will aim to push G-20 members to better synchronize
policies at their next meeting in September, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  