-- 
Israel Strikes Gaza as Rockets Fall on South

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-19T16:52:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/gaza-launched-rockets-wound-two-in-israeli-city-in-second-day-of-violence.html
Israel said it hit weapons factories
and smuggling tunnels in the Hamas-controlled  Gaza Strip  as
rockets struck its south a day after attacks outside the resort
city of Eilat killed eight soldiers and civilians.  “We have a policy to make those who strike at us pay a
very heavy price and we are carrying it out,” Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu said in a text message to journalists today.
“We killed the leaders of the group who sent the terrorists.
This is only the initial response.”  An Israeli airstrike on Gaza yesterday killed six people,
including the two top commanders of the Popular Resistance
Committees, an  umbrella organization  for Gazan militant groups.
Two more Palestinians were killed in subsequent strikes, Gaza
health officials said.  The escalating violence, in which about 14 missiles hit
 Israel  and more than 10 strikes were launched on Gaza, is the
worst since April and raises the possibility of a more extensive
Israeli military operation in the seaside strip that Hamas has
controlled since 2007, after ousting forces loyal to Palestinian
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah faction. The group won
parliamentary elections the year earlier.  A senior officer in the army’s Southern Command, who
briefed reporters on condition of anonymity according to
regulation, said Israel was holding Hamas responsible for
yesterday’s attacks.  Egyptian Border  He said Israel believes that as many as 15 Palestinian
militants, armed with assault rifles, explosives, grenades and
machine guns, left Gaza for Sinai and then crossed into Israel
from the less-guarded Egyptian border.  Egypt’s North Sinai governor, Major General Al-Sayed Abdel-
Wahab Mabrouk, denied Israeli claims that the armed men who
carried out the attacks entered Israel from Egypt, the Egyptian
state-run Middle East  News Agency  said yesterday.  Two Israelis were wounded and buildings damaged in a rocket
attack today on the city of Ashdod, 40 kilometers (25 miles)
north of Gaza, police said in a statement. The army said at
least 14 rockets hit Israel since late yesterday, including one
near Beersheba, the largest southern city.  Two Gazans were killed today in Israeli strikes, Gaza
health official Adham Abu Selmeya said, bringing the total death
toll for the current round of violence to 23, including the
seven militants Israel said it killed yesterday.  Conflict in 2008  A three-week operation that Israel began in December 2008
to halt rocket fire from Gaza left more than 1,300 Palestinians
and 13 Israelis dead. Hamas, has denied any involvement in
yesterday’s attacks. The group, which has refused to negotiate
with Israel or recognize any agreements signed with it, is
considered a terrorist group by Israel, the U.S. and the
European Union.  The Popular Resistance Committees said in a statement
yesterday that they planned to avenge the deaths of their
members.  Chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat urged the
international community to step in to prevent an escalation and
said “such violence doesn’t advance the Palestinian cause for
freedom and independence.”  The Palestinians plan to ask the  United Nations  next month
to recognize their state in the absence of peace talks with
Israel. The negotiations fell apart in September after Netanyahu
refused to renew a 10-month partial freeze on settlement
construction in the  West Bank  and Abbas said he wouldn’t return
to talks without a total halt to the building.  Border Points  Israel’s army is reinforcing points on its borders and
boosting stockpiles of rubber bullets and tear gas to prepare
for possible unrest stemming from the planned Palestinian
initiative at the UN, a senior officer said on July 19.  A major military operation in Gaza “could bring about an
escalation that could spiral out of control as Israel heads
towards the difficult period in September,” said Yoram Meital,
chairman of Ben Gurion University’s Herzog Center for Middle
East Studies in Beersheva. “Hamas is not interested right now
in an escalation.”  The violence comes amid Israeli concerns that Egyptian
security forces have been losing control of the border area
since the February ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak .  Egyptian natural-gas supplies to Israel, which receives
about 40 percent of the fuel from  Egypt , were disrupted after
four attacks on the pipeline network between Feb. 5 and July 12.  Embassy Protest  Protesters outside the Israeli Embassy in Cairo called
today for the expulsion of the mission’s ambassador, Al Arabiya
television reported.  “Messages have been exchanged between Israel and Egypt at
the very top level,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor
said. “Coordination is very good.”  The military officer also said that meetings between
Egyptians and Israeli generals were continuing.  Three Egyptian security personnel were killed yesterday in
the violence, apparently by Israeli fire directed at suspects,
MENA said early today. The Egyptian government lodged an
official protest with Israel today and demanded an investigation
of the deaths of the three officers, Egyptian state television
said.  The Israeli army spokesman’s office said it was checking
into the report.  The officer who briefed journalists on condition of
anonymity said Israel was investigating the possibility that its
forces may have inadvertently killed Egyptian security personnel
while shooting at the attackers late yesterday.  Israeli Markets  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index closed down 3.8 percent
yesterday, the largest drop in 10 days. The shekel weakened 0.3
percent to 3.5707 per dollar by 10:46 a.m. in  New York  today.
The shekel has dropped 1 percent versus the dollar over the last
five days, the worst performer among 10 emerging-market
currencies in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa  tracked by
Bloomberg. The Israeli stock market is closed today.  Israel’s credit-default swaps, or the cost of insuring
government debt against non-payment for five years, rose two
basis points to 159, the highest level in a week, at 5 p.m. in
 Tel Aviv , according to London prices from CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The U.S. government condemned the attacks, which caused the
most Israeli fatalities in such an incident since March 2008,
when eight students were killed by an armed Palestinian who
opened fire in a  Jerusalem  religious school.  “The U.S. and Israel stand united against terror and we
hope those behind this attack will be brought to justice
swiftly,” according to a statement from President Barack Obama’s spokesman,  Jay Carney .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 