-- 
Greece’s Notes Slide on Collateral Demands; ECB Purchases Italian Bonds

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-19T15:32:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/german-bonds-rise-a-fifth-day-on-stock-slide-signs-global-growth-slowing.html
Greek two-year notes slumped after
some of the nation’s euro-region partners said they would seek
collateral in exchange for new loans, fueling concern attempts
to resolve the currency union’s debt crisis will be derailed.  Two-year Greek yields climbed above 37 percent for the
first time in almost a month.  Austria , the Netherlands, Slovenia
and Slovakia said yesterday they’d aim to emulate Finland’s deal
with  Greece , which was criticized by Austria’s finance minister
for risking the viability of a rescue. Italian two-year notes
erased losses as the  European Central Bank  was said to be buying
the securities. German 10-year bonds posted a weekly gain,
leaving yields near a record low, as stock markets tumbled.  The collateral issue “is something that goes against the
logic of the whole bailout package,” said Marius Daheim, a
senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in
Munich. “It has the scope to result in a conflict and to topple
the whole second bailout package. We’re trading off equities;
we’re in a risk-off environment.”  The Greek two-year yield climbed 214 basis points to 37.47
percent as of 4 p.m. in  London , breaching 37 percent for the
first time since July 21. The yield reached a record 40.46
percent on July 20. The 10-year yield rose 65 basis points to
16.65 percent. The Italian two-year yield was at 3.32 percent,
from 3.48 percent at the end of last week.  Ten-year German bund yields rose three basis points to 2.12
percent, after declining to 2.03 percent yesterday, the lowest
since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1989. The 3.25
percent security due July 2021 fell 0.320, or 3.20 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,442) face amount, to 109.935.  Negative Yields  The German yield fell 21 basis points this week, the most
since the five days through July 29. Two-year Swiss bond yields
stayed negative for a third day, showing investors are
sacrificing capital for the nation’s perceived safety.  Finland  reached an agreement on Aug. 16 with the Greek
government requiring Greece to deposit cash in a state account
that Finland will invest in AAA rated bonds. The bilateral
arrangement needs approval from other euro members, the
Helsinki-based  Finance Ministry  said.  “The Finns have negotiated with the Greeks that they get
20 percent of collateral in cash from the other member states,”
Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter told reporters in Vienna
yesterday. “If every country demanded 20 percent, the entire
package would blow up.”  Finnish ‘Exceptionalism’  Finland’s collateral demands were included in a July 21
agreement by euro-area leaders to provide a new 159 billion-euro
aid package for Greece and grant broader powers to the region’s
rescue fund. At the summit, AAA rated Finland fought for extra
assurances it won’t lose money on its backing for the European
Financial Stability Facility. The July 21 agreement needs to be
ratified nationally.  “The fear factor isn’t going away,” said  Marc Ostwald , a
fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London.
“Exceptionalism for Finland at this stage of proceedings -- in
other situations, if someone else did it at the private level,
you’d question their sanity.”  The ECB bought Italian government bonds today, according to
three people with knowledge of the transactions. A spokesman for
the central bank declined to comment. The Frankfurt-based ECB
said on Aug. 15 it settled purchases worth 22 billion euros in
the week through Aug. 12.  Investors are favoring the safest assets, propelling yields
in  Germany  and the U.S. to record lows amid evidence an economic
slowdown is spreading to the bigger economies.  German Spread  European stocks fell, dragging the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
down by 0.9 percent, adding to its 4.8 percent slide yesterday.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped 3 percent. The 46-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index tumbled as
much as 3.6 percent.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold 10-
year bunds instead of two-year German notes fell four basis
points to 146 basis points, the least since Aug. 3 based on
closing Bloomberg generic prices. That signals an investor
preference for longer-dated paper, which is more sensitive to
the outlook for inflation. Shorter-maturity notes are influenced
more by the outlook for monetary policy.  Investors reduced their inflation expectations, with the
German 10-year breakeven rate, which anticipates consumer-price
growth in the next decade, dropping to 1.71 percentage points.
That’s the least since December, based on closing prices. The
rate was 1.99 percentage points at the end of last week.
 France ’s equivalent rate was 1.82 percentage points.  ‘Flattening Pressure’  “With growth concerns, rather than any perception of  risk
premium , having become the dominant market driver, curves have
been placed under sustained bull flattening pressure,” Mikael Nilsson, a fixed-income strategist at  Barclays Capital  in
London, wrote in a client note today. “Expectations for rate
tightening have been completely eroded.”  U.S. stocks headed for a fourth week of losses after
Citigroup Inc. cut its forecasts for expansion in the world’s
largest economy. Reports yesterday showed U.S. jobless claims
rose and the Philadelphia Fed’s measure of manufacturing plunged
to the lowest level since March 2009.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a 2.8 percent
return this month, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
Greek bonds have lost 3.7 percent, pushing their decline this
year to 14.6 percent. Portuguese securities have dropped 16
percent in 2011, the indexes show. Bunds made 5.9 percent this
year, while Treasuries made 7.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  