-- 
Global Bank Capital Regime at Risk as Regulators Spar Over Rules

-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 
2011-08-20T14:49:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/global-bank-capital-regime-at-risk-as-regulators-spar-over-rules.html
Capital standards designed to
fortify the global financial system are eroding as European
officials, beset by a debt crisis, rewrite the regulations and
U.S. rulemaking stalls.  The 27 member-states of the  Basel  Committee on Banking
Supervision fought over the new regime, known as Basel III, for
more than a year before agreeing in December to require banks to
bolster capital and reduce reliance on borrowing. Now, as they
put the standards into effect in their own countries, European
Union lawmakers are revising definitions of capital, while the
U.S. is struggling to reconcile the Basel mandates with
financial reforms imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act.  “The game on the ground has changed in Europe and the
U.S.,” said V. Gerard Comizio, a former Treasury Department
lawyer who is now a senior partner at Paul Hastings Janofsky &
Walker LLP in Washington. “The realists in  Europe  realized that
their banks cannot raise the capital they’d need to comply. U.S.
banks have reversed course and are more assertively fighting
against it. The future of Basel III looks less certain now than
it did when it was agreed to.”  The Basel committee revised its capital standards and
outlined new rules on  liquidity  and leverage after the 2008
crisis exposed the vulnerability of the banking system. Credit
markets froze following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., sending the world economy into its first recession since
World War II. Basel III was meant to create “a much stronger
banking and financial system that is much more resilient to
financial crises,” said Mario Draghi, who will take over as
president of the  European Central Bank  in November.  Not Binding  Basel standards aren’t binding, so each country needs to
write its own rules putting the agreed-upon principles into
effect. The European Commission proposed regulations to
parliament last month that would translate Basel III into law. A
majority of EU governments also must endorse them. U.S.
regulators led by the  Federal Reserve  have to come up with their
own version, though they don’t need legislative approval.  The proposed EU rules, submitted by financial services
commissioner Michel Barnier, omitted a ratio designed to improve
banks’ cash positions, deferred decision on a rule to limit
borrowing, revised capital definitions and extended some
compliance dates. In the U.S., regulators are stymied because
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act bars the use in banking rules of credit
ratings, which Basel III relies on to determine risk.  “Implementation is a big concern in Europe and the U.S.,”
said  Karel Lannoo , head of the Centre for European Policy
Studies in Brussels. “The EU crisis isn’t over; the U.S. isn’t
safely out of its mess. If we can’t get the rules that were
supposed to protect the financial system from collapse, we won’t
have changed anything to help us the next time around.”  Bigger Buffers  While the Greek debt crisis damped enthusiasm for
tightening standards last year, the Basel committee managed to
develop reforms to reduce risks in the financial system,
according to Lannoo and other analysts. Increased capital
requirements will create bigger buffers against losses. New
liquidity rules will ensure banks have enough cash to deal with
panicky customers withdrawing funds.  Renewed concern this year that  Greece  may be unable to pay
its debts, and similar worries about larger EU members Italy and
 Spain , have darkened Basel’s prospects. The sputtering economic
recovery in the U.S. and Europe has hurt, too.  $600 Billion Hole  The European Commission estimates that the region’s banks
will have to raise about $600 billion to comply with the new
capital rules. Banks say that will harm their ability to lend at
a time when economies are flailing.  U.S. economic growth for the first quarter was revised down
to 0.4 percent, while the second quarter’s initial figure was
1.3 percent. In Europe, gross domestic product fell from 0.8
percent in the first three months of the year to 0.2 percent in
the second quarter.  Both the Bloomberg Europe 500 Banks and Financial Services
Index and the KBW Bank Index of U.S. bank stocks have fallen
about 30 percent this year. That wiped out more than $700
billion of market value on the two continents.  The European proposal alters the definition of capital that
Basel III aimed to tighten when the committee agreed not to
allow anything other than common shares to count toward the top-
quality bank capital regulators examine.  Silent Participations  During the 2010 negotiations,  Germany  sought to maintain
recognition of so-called silent participations -- hybrid
securities that act like debt and equity at the same time --
which some banks rely on for more than half their capital. While
Germany lost the battle to exempt silent participations last
year, the EU’s implementation proposal was written to allow the
securities to be included if they fulfill certain conditions,
according to an EU official who asked not to be identified
because he wasn’t authorized to speak.  At Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen, a state-owned lender based
in  Frankfurt  known as Helaba, silent participations account for
more than 50 percent of the bank’s 6 billion euros ($8.6
billion) of capital. Helaba withdrew from the Europe-wide stress
tests in July after regulators refused to count some of those
hybrid instruments as capital.  Italy fought during Basel talks last year to include
deferred tax assets -- future deductions from tax liabilities
resulting from current losses -- when calculating top-tier
capital. Basel III restricted use of these assets to no more
than 10 percent of a bank’s capital. The EU’s proposal would
allow unrestricted use of deferred tax assets if they comply
with certain requirements. Italy modified its tax laws in
February to enable the assets to meet those conditions.  Counting tax assets would raise the capital ratio at Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA, the oldest bank in the world and
Italy’s third-largest, by about 1 percentage point, according to
a February Mediobanca SpA report on the benefits of the tax-law
change to Italian banks.  Double Counting  Basel III also sought to put an end to the double counting
of capital in insurance subsidiaries, which many European
lenders do. The proposed EU rules don’t require banks to deduct
investments in these subsidiaries from their capital, which will
allow the double counting to continue, said analysts including
Andrew Stimpson at KBW Inc. in  London . That would benefit banks
such as  France ’s  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , whose insurance subsidiary
accounts for 10 percent of income.  “Each adjustment may be justified in each country’s case,
but when you put them all together, there will be differences
between how the EU implements Basel III and how others do,”
said Tobias Moerschen, a European bank analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service in  New York . “And if other countries feel
compelled to go down the same road, you’ll end up with a less
level playing field, and that is negative.”  Dimon, Ackermann  U.S. banks lobbying their regulators about the
implementation of Basel rules can use the EU proposal as
ammunition, Moerschen said. In March,  Jamie Dimon , 55, chairman
and chief executive officer of New York-based  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , said at a Chamber of Commerce event in Washington that it
would disadvantage U.S. banks if European lenders were allowed
to calculate capital ratios differently.  Josef Ackermann, the 63-year-old CEO of Frankfurt-based
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , fired a similar warning shot in a speech in
New Delhi the same month: Separate regulatory approaches “would
have severe consequences for financial markets and for the
global economy,” he said.  Ackerman and other European bankers have complained that
the U.S. never fully implemented  Basel II , which was approved by
the Basel committee in 2004. When community banks in the U.S.
realized the regulations would give the largest international
lenders the ability to lower their capital ratios, they lobbied
lawmakers to prevent adoption of the rules. U.S. regulators,
under pressure from Congress, delayed implementation.  Dodd-Frank Restrictions  Now the U.S. faces obstacles implementing Basel III because
of conflicts with Dodd-Frank. The law’s ban on credit ratings
was the result of criticism that Moody’s and other rating firms
gave mortgage-related securities investment-grade ratings they
didn’t deserve. That helped inflate a U.S. housing bubble as
trillions of dollars of home loans were packaged into bonds and
marketed to investors as safe.  While Basel III relies less on ratings than previous
regimes, it still uses them to calculate risk. An international
debate about what might replace external ratings has been as
inconclusive as the one in the U.S.  Officials from the Fed and the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency  told  a congressional oversight panel last month
that they have received numerous proposals and are still trying
to come up with a formula that doesn’t rely on ratings firms.  “If the U.S. agencies are unable to implement the Basel
committee changes that reference credit ratings, other
jurisdictions may infer a lessening of the U.S. commitment to
the Basel framework,” David Wilson, the OCC’s chief national
bank examiner, told the panel.  141 Rules  Bank regulators at the Fed and other U.S. agencies have
been busy implementing 141 rules mandated by Dodd-Frank,
according to a  tally  by New York-based law firm Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP. As of July 22, regulators had completed 20,
published proposals for an additional 24, missed 19 deadlines
and had 78 to write, according to the Davis Polk report.  While Basel has taken a back seat to Dodd-Frank, U.S.
regulators will be able to work around the ratings restrictions
and propose rules to implement Basel III this year, according to
two people involved in the discussions who asked not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak.  ‘Big Holes’  U.S. regulators may be tempted to skip Basel altogether,
said Karen Shaw Petrou, co-founder of Federal Financial
Analytics Inc., an advisory firm in  Washington .  “Dodd-Frank already takes care of the most important
elements of the financial crisis, so why should we try to
incorporate a set of rules into which big holes are already
being carved?” Petrou said.  One hole may be opening in Basel III’s global leverage
ratio. Unlike the capital ratio, which weights assets based on
riskiness, the leverage standard compares capital with total
assets without taking risk into account. The rule aims to limit
how big a bank can get by capping how much it can borrow in
relation to its common equity.  European banks had opposed a leverage ratio, arguing that
different accounting regimes make the balance sheets of U.S.
lenders smaller than those of their foreign counterparts and
that restricting leverage would unfairly punish non-U.S. firms.
While U.S. banks are subject to a leverage cap, Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles allow them to keep more assets
off their balance sheets and to net out derivatives more than
International Financial Reporting Standards do.  Liquidity Standards  The Basel committee addressed the issue by devising a
mechanism for adding total assets that puts aside different
accounting standards. Still, the EU proposal doesn’t commit to
implementing the ratio by 2018 as required by Basel III.
Instead, it asks for a five-year period to review the rule’s
effectiveness in curbing risk before deciding whether to make it
binding.  The EU proposal also softens Basel III’s liquidity
standards that would require banks to hold enough cash or easily
sellable assets to meet short- and long-term liabilities. It
omits the rule covering debt coming due in the next 12 months
and modifies the one for 30-day obligations to allow counting
covered bonds as liquid assets. Denmark, Sweden and Spain
lobbied for the modification because their banks have sizeable
holdings of those bonds, which are securities backed by the  cash
flow  from a pool of mortgage loans.  ‘Totally Faithful’  “The EU document is notable for its omissions of some key
Basel concepts,” said Stimpson, the KBW analyst. “There are
also tweaks in the capital definitions. I hope these don’t give
Americans the excuse to say, ‘We’re not implementing Basel
III.’”  Barnier, the financial services commissioner, and other EU
officials have said the changes they incorporated into the
implementation proposal are part of the natural process of
translating global rules into local practice.  “We are totally faithful to Basel’s spirit, letter and
level of ambition,” Barnier  said  in Brussels last month.  Different interpretations by national regulators emerged
during previous incarnations of the accords, known as Basel I
and II. Conflicts over Basel III could undermine the new regime
if more countries follow Europe’s example and come up with their
own versions of the rules, said Vishal Vedi, a London-based
partner at Deloitte LLP’s financial-advisory practice.  “There’s concern that divergences between the EU and the
U.S. on Basel III implementation will be bigger this time,”
Vedi said. “There’s a line when the spirit of Basel III is
tossed aside. I don’t think we’re there yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter at @Yalman_BN.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 