-- 
Google’s Motorola Deal Shows Need for Better Patent System: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-19T00:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/google-s-motorola-deal-shows-need-to-develop-better-patent-system-view.html
If members of Congress needed a
reminder that it’s high time to pass new patent legislation, the
multibillion-dollar flurry over mobile-phone patents should
concentrate their minds.  About a dozen of the world’s biggest companies are battling
for supremacy in the smartphone business. No single, brilliant
innovation defines these gadgets. Instead, countless individual
phone features might be subject to various narrow patents.
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  estimates that a single smartphone could be the
subject of 250,000 patent claims.  No one owns all the relevant patents. It’s unclear which
ones might hold up in court and which are duds. What’s
indisputable is that losing a big patent-infringement case would
be catastrophic. So every competitor wants to stockpile
thousands of patents, serving as both shield and club against
any rival tempted to start a court battle. The result is a
system that rewards lawyers and investment bankers far more than
inventors or consumers.  In June, six companies led by Apple Inc. beat Google in a
competitive auction, paying $4.5 billion for 6,000 patents that
had been owned by now-defunct Nortel Networks Inc. Not to be
outdone, Google this week agreed to buy Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. for $12.5 billion. Google justified the
acquisition chiefly as a way of gaining access to 17,000
Motorola patents.  Now  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) ’s stock has been rallying on news
that the company is exploring options for its more than 1,100
digital-image patents. As Bloomberg News reported this week,
some analysts and investment bankers say Kodak’s patents could
fetch $3 billion, nearly quadruple the ailing company’s current
market value.  Unproductive Arms Race  When a host of major players in an industry all feel
compelled to build comparable patent arsenals, we’re seeing
something akin to an unproductive Cold War arms race. Billions
of dollars are spent, merely to preserve a suspicious state of
detente.  And the arms are piling up. Last year U.S. officials
 approved  a record 244,341 patents, up 27 percent from 2009. Big
companies bombard the patent office with incremental claims. Too
many of these patents are duplicative or defensive; their
existence becomes a tax on innovation, rather than a reward.  A smarter system would reduce this clutter. Earlier this
year, both the House and Senate passed bills that encourage a
more orderly, judicious approach. There’s bipartisan support for
change: Democratic Senator  Patrick Leahy  of  Vermont  and
Republican Representative  Lamar Smith  of Texas are sponsoring
the two bills. The House version is due to be taken up by the
Senate next month, and it provides a good template for reform.  The House bill provides for a post-grant review of patents
and more extensive investigation of what technology is already
in place, so that fewer dubious patents come into being. Both
bills also bring the U.S. closer to other countries in terms of
resolving competing patent claims in favor of the first filer.
Small inventors have argued that they are better served by the
current U.S. standard of awarding patents on a first-to-invent
basis. But that standard is too murky and ambiguous to work
fairly.  Leahy and Smith  say  their new law could create 200,000
jobs. The calculations are debatable, but the case for fresh
approaches is compelling. Consider the rise of the open-source
 software industry , which operates largely without patents -- and
has created many thousands of jobs in the past decade.  Government officials in  China  and the European Union are
vowing to modernize their patent-granting systems, too. That
makes it all the more crucial that the U.S. establish a code
that promotes innovation, rather than an arms race.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 