-- 
Grassley-SEC, EU Bank Scrutiny, Aquino, German Steel Probe: Compliance

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-08-19T12:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/grassley-sec-eu-bank-scrutiny-german-steel-probe-compliance.html
U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley  asked
the Securities and Exchange Commission to answer allegations
that the agency destroyed files from initial investigations of
firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , SAC Capital Advisors
LP and Bernard Madoff Investment Securities LLC.  Grassley, the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary
Committee, made the request in a letter to SEC Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  dated Aug. 17, citing claims by an agency employee that
more than 9,000 such files have been purged. The Iowa lawmaker
asked Schapiro to explain whether the SEC routinely destroys
documents related to so-called matters under investigation that
don’t progress beyond the initial phase.  “It doesn’t make sense that an agency responsible for
investigations would want to get rid of potential evidence,”
Grassley said in a statement. “If these charges are true, the
agency needs to explain why it destroyed documents, how many
documents it destroyed over what timeframe, and to what extent
its actions were consistent with the law.”  Grassley said his request was prompted by a letter from
Darcy Flynn, a 13-year SEC employee who claimed the agency
destroyed documents including materials related to Goldman
Sachs’ trades of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  credit-
default swaps in 2009, insider-trading probes of  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and SAC Capital Advisors LP,
and investigations of possible financial fraud at  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and Bank of America Corp. in 2007 and 2008.  In a July 15 letter to Grassley, Aguirre claimed that the
SEC had illegally destroyed documents and that some officials
“concocted a false and misleading story” to cover it up.  “As a general matter, not every document that comes into
an agency’s possession in the course of its work must be
retained,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in an Aug. 17
statement, declining to respond specifically to Grassley’s
letter. “We do keep records of our MUI’s and they’re available
to our investigators to learn about previous work on matters
that have been reviewed.”  SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz said he is looking into
whether the agency followed federal guidelines and plans to
issue a report on the matter by the end of September.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Natural-Gas Fracking Rules Considered for Federal Lands  The U.S. is weighing whether to impose new rules on
hydraulic fracturing to extract natural gas on public lands.  Companies such as  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  of The
Woodlands, Texas, and Treasure Resources Inc. of Windsor,
Colorado, may be required to disclose chemicals used in the
drilling and adopt well-integrity standards as part of the
permit process, Robert Abbey, director of  the Bureau of Land
Management , said in an interview yesterday.  “We have the authority to move forward with our own rule-
making to require such a disclosure and other best-management
practices that we deem are feasible and appropriate,” Abbey
said. Such regulations are being “seriously entertained,” he
said.  In fracturing, or fracking, companies inject water, sand
and chemicals under high pressure thousands of feet underground
to break up shale-rock formations and release the gas trapped
there. The technique is used for more than 90 percent of wells
drilled on public lands, Abbey said.  Environmentalists and local officials have said the
technique can pollute water resources.  Abbey said the bureau had no evidence that fracking has
“adversely affected groundwater.”  The agency, part of  the Interior Department , will wait for
the final results of a  task force  set up by the Energy
Department to review the risks of hydraulic fracturing before
deciding whether to impose rules, he said.  Last week, the task force released a draft report that said
natural-gas companies risk causing serious environmental damage
unless they adhere to certain standards.  BOE’S Haldane Says Regulation May Have to Spur Risk-Taking  Andrew Haldane , the  Bank of England ’s executive director
for financial stability, said policy makers may have to use
regulation to help boost risk-taking if banks curtail lending
and hurt growth.  “As long as aversion to risk taking is causing financial
congestion, growth (like traffic) will remain sluggish,”
Haldane said in a  research paper  released yesterday by the
central bank in  London . “Macro-prudential policy may have a
role to play in shouldering the heavy burden of damaged balance
sheets and diminished risk appetites.”  Haldane’s comments come amid the U.K. government’s shake-up
of bank rules, which will invest the Bank of England with
control of financial regulation. The central bank’s interim
Financial Policy Committee recommended in June that banks take
the opportunity of periods of “strong earnings” to build up
capital. As well as helping institutions to weather losses, it
could also help them increase risk taking, Haldane said.  “The FPC, like the Monetary Policy Committee, needs to act
symmetrically in response to these developments,” he said.
“Its job is to cushion the fall as well as arrest the rise in
credit and debt.”  Aquino Invokes Eliot Ness in War on Graft to Lure Investors  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  has ordered his guards
to protect officials hunting tax evaders in an anti-corruption
drive to draw investors, saying “we’re going after very
entrenched and very vested interests,” in an interview in the
presidential palace in Manila.  Al Capone “got caught on tax evasion, not murder, not
corruption, by not paying his taxes, that amazed me,” said
Aquino, who recalled being inspired by Capone’s nemesis Eliot
Ness as portrayed in the 1959 series “ The Untouchables .”  Aquino campaigned on the slogan “If There’s No Corruption,
There’s No Poverty.” He has since filed more than 120
complaints against suspected smugglers, corrupt officials and
tax evaders, though he hasn’t secured any convictions yet in a
country that was ranked 134 out of 178 on Berlin-based
Transparency International’s  corruption perception  index in
2010.  Besides pursuing tax cheats, in his first year in office
Aquino has narrowed a record budget deficit and been rewarded
with higher credit scores by all three major ratings companies.  “The administration’s emphasis on good governance has
improved the business climate and should result in more
favorable assessments of institutional strength if that focus
can be sustained,” said Christian de Guzman, a Singapore-based
assistant vice president at Moody’s.  For more, click here.  South Africa Studies Tougher Mining Laws on Safety Concerns  South Africa may strengthen mining laws because companies
are compromising worker safety as they accelerate production
amid rising commodity prices, according to Mineral Resources
Minister Susan Shabangu.  “Where there’re more profits, there is an increase in
fatalities,” Shabangu said yesterday in an address to the Cape
Town Press Club. “We will not hesitate to stop unsafe mines in
order to save the lives of workers who inadvertently fall victim
to these lapses” in safety standards.  South Africa, where  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  operate, is the world’s largest
platinum producer and Africa’s biggest gold producer. Its mines
are among the world’s deepest, and labor-intensive methods have
made them some of the most dangerous. About 76 people died at
South African mines from Jan. 1 to Aug. 15, compared with 79 a
year earlier, government data show.  Separately, Shabangu announced a six-month extension to a
moratorium on issuing gas-exploration licenses in the Karoo
region, allowing the government more time to investigate the
implications of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. A government
task force is due to deliver a report to the Cabinet next month.  FAA Works ‘Aggressively’ on Rest Rule After Missed Deadline  The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration said it’s
“working aggressively” to complete a pilot fatigue rule after
missing an Aug. 1 deadline amid opposition from cargo carriers
and charter-flight operators.  After decades of inaction on rest rules, the FAA two years
ago brought together fatigue experts, pilot unions and airlines
to craft new fatigue restrictions. It proposed rules last year
that would give pilots longer rest periods between shifts and
reduce the maximum hours they can fly under conditions deemed
fatiguing.  Cargo airlines including  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and
 FedEx Corp. (FDX) , and charter operators, both types of carriers that
often fly overnight flights, opposed the FAA proposal. While
pilot fatigue has been increasingly cited as the cause of
accidents during the past decade and the National Transportation
Safety Board has made the issue one of its “Most Wanted”
safety improvements, attempts dating back to the 1990s to revamp
pilot work rules have stalled.  France  Eases Ban on Short Selling Before Index Futures Expire  France relaxed a ban on selling banks short, trying to calm
index-futures traders concerned the rule would keep them from
exchanging contracts when they expire today.  Investors who are short index futures that include bank
shares can replace the holdings with new contracts, according to
the AMF, France’s financial regulator. Speculation the ban would
prevent that may have contributed to volatility yesterday, when
European stocks plunged the most since March 2009.  “They really should have thought about that earlier,”
said Trung-Tin Nguyen, a hedge-fund manager at TTN AG in Zurich.
“If you want to change the rules of the game, then do it
right.”  In a short sale, speculators borrow shares and sell them,
betting they will be able to purchase them later at a lower
price. France prohibited new short positions on financial stocks
last week after  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, the nation’s second-biggest
bank, plunged the most since 2008.  Compliance Action  U.S. Steps Up Scrutiny of European Banks, WSJ Reports  U.S. regulators are stepping up scrutiny of local
operations for  Europe ’s largest banks on concern that the
region’s sovereign debt crisis may lead to funding problems, the
Wall Street Journal reported yesterday.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  has been holding talks
with the lenders and sought information about their access to
funds to maintain operations in the U.S., the Journal said,
citing people it didn’t identify. The regulator has also been
asking some lenders to overhaul their structure, it said.  Policy makers, who aim to avert a repeat of the 2008 global
financial crisis, are concerned that Europe’s debt problems may
curtail the banks’ ability to fund loans and meet their
obligations in the U.S., or lead them to siphon funds from the
U.S., the newspaper said. The problems haven’t yet escalated to
the level of previous crises, it said.  Overseas lenders that don’t have big branch networks in the
U.S. can borrow dollars from other lenders, the central bank or
money-market funds, or swap their domestic-market currencies,
the newspaper said. Those avenues of funding typically disappear
in a crisis, it said.  Former News of the World Reporter Said to Be Arrested  James Desborough, a former Hollywood reporter for the now-
shuttered News of the World newspaper, was arrested by London
police investigating phone-hacking, according to a person
familiar with the probe.  Desborough, 38, is the 13th person detained since police
renewed a probe this year to determine if the practice extended
beyond a former royal reporter and a private investigator who
were jailed in 2007 for intercepting voice mails. Desborough
started at the tabloid in 2005 and began a role as an editor in
the U.S. in April 2009, according to the person, who didn’t want
to be identified because they weren’t authorized to discuss the
matter publicly.  “We are fully cooperating with the police investigation
and we are unable to comment further on matters due to ongoing
police investigations,” News International, the New York-based
company’s U.K. newspapers unit, said in an e-mailed statement.  At least nine of the 13 people arrested in investigations
of phone hacking and bribes to police have ties to the News of
the World, including former editor Rebekah Brooks, who resigned
July 15 as chief executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News
International unit.  Andy Coulson , another former editor of the
tabloid, was arrested last month, after resigning in January as
British Prime Minister David Cameron’s spokesman.  For more, click here.  German Police Say 30 Companies Probed in Railway-Steel Case  German police have widened an investigation of possible
antitrust violations in the country’s railway-steel market to
include about 30 companies in a probe that already included
 ThyssenKrupp AG. (TKA)   Police raided the homes of two suspects and one witness in
the cities of Bochum, Essen and Dortmund, the Bochum police said
in an Aug. 17  statement . The probe concerns about 90 people.
Prosecutors said last month the investigation concerned about 10
companies and 30 suspects.  ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s largest steelmaker has “parted
company” with two employees since it launched an internal
inquiry in May, said a spokesman for the producer who declined
to be cited by name, in line with company policy. The Essen,
Germany-based steelmaker is helping police with its
investigations, he added.  Voestalpine AG (VOE) , Austria’s biggest steelmaker, was the
whistleblower in the investigation, which is being led by the
Bochum police force in collaboration with the German Federal
Cartel Office and the Bochum prosecutor’s office.  Police said the harm caused by the alleged antitrust
infractions was in the three-digit-millions of euros.  Boeing Said to Win Freighter Approval After Two-Year Delay  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new 747-8 jumbo jet, the biggest plane it’s
ever built, will be certified for cargo service today by the
U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, two people familiar with
the matter said.  FAA approval will cap a two-year delay to the jet’s entry
into service and put the 747-8 ahead of the 787 Dreamliner,
which has finished flight tests though it hasn’t yet been
certified. The jumbo jet was set back in part because engineers
were diverted to the 787.  Boeing expects to receive FAA certification of the 787 next
week, with a ceremony scheduled for Aug. 26, said a separate
person familiar with that matter who declined to be identified
because the plans haven’t yet been announced.  Luxembourg’s Cargolux Airlines International SA will
receive the first 747-8 freighter. The first delivery originally
was set for the third quarter of 2009. Flight trials continue on
the 747-8 Intercontinental passenger version, due to begin
service in early 2012 with  Deutsche Lufthansa AG. (LHA)   Turkey Regulator Conditionally Approves Mey Sale to Diageo  Turkey’s antitrust regulator “conditionally” approved the
3.3 billion liras ($1.8 billion) purchase of Mey Icki Sanayi &
Ticaret AS, an alcohol producer which is the biggest maker of
raki in Turkey, by Diageo Plc from TPG Capital and Actera.  Diageo will sell within a certain period Mey’s licenses and
assets related to gin brand Maestro and liqueur brand Hare to a
third party or parties to be approved by the regulator, the
Ankara-based competition board  said  on its website today. Diageo
will also sell Mey’s plant in Bilecik in northwestern Turkey
should the eligible investors want to buy it, the board said.  Courts  China  Minmetals, Sinosteel Price-Fixing Lawsuit Revived  China Minmetals Corp., China’s biggest state-owned metals
trader, and Sinosteel Corp. must face claims they conspired to
fix the price of magnesite sold in the U.S., a federal appeals
court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Philadelphia on Aug. 17
reversed a lower-court decision dismissing the lawsuit. The
lower court erred in ruling that it lacked jurisdiction to
decide the dispute based on a federal statute, the appeals panel
said, remanding the case for further proceedings.  Animal Science Products Inc. and Resco Products Inc., U.S.
buyers of magnesite, sued 17 Chinese companies in 2005 claiming
they conspired since at least April 2000 to fix the price of the
metal exported and sold in the U.S. Magnesite is mined from
magnesium deposits and used to melt steel, clean wastewater and
make cement, the appeals court said.  The appeals case involves only the China Minmetals and
Sinosteel defendants, who had argued that the dispute should be
arbitrated in China, according to court papers. Sinosteel is
China’s biggest iron-ore trader.  The case is Animal Science Products Inc. v. China Minmetals
Corp., 10-2288, 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(Philadelphia).  Hyundai Oilbank Loses Appeal Against 26.3 Billion Won Fine  Hyundai Oilbank Co., one of six liquefied petroleum gas
distributors fined by South Korea’s Fair Trade Commission for
price fixing, lost an appeal against the antitrust regulator’s
26.3 billion won ($24 million) penalty.  The Seoul High  Court  ruled that the commission’s fine was
appropriate as suppliers looked to implicitly reach an agreement
on fixing prices, Hyundai spokesman Koh In Soo said by phone
yesterday.  The commission imposed fines totaling 668.9 billion won
last year on companies including GS Caltex Corp.,  S-Oil Corp. (010950) ,
 E1 Corp. (017940)  and SK Gas Co. for fixing fuel prices for six years. SK
Energy Co. wasn’t required to pay its fine after being the first
company to admit wrongdoing.  Sandoz Sues Novo Nordisk to Head Off Generic-Drug Challenge  Sandoz Inc., a unit of the Swiss drug company  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,
filed a lawsuit seeking the court’s finding that its proposed
generic version of a Novo Nordisk A/S diabetes drug is non-
infringing.  Sandoz plans to market a lower-cost version of the Novo
Nordisk diabetes drug  Prandin , according to a federal complaint
filed Aug. 17 in Detroit. It has asked the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for permission to do so.  The FDA application puts Sandoz “at considerable risk of
being sued,” according to the company’s complaint, because it
would bring the drug to market before the expiration of a Novo
Nordisk-claimed patented element.  In January, Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo Nordisk lost a
U.S. court challenge to the patent in a lawsuit brought by
Detroit-based Caraco Pharmaceutical Laboratories Ltd. It
challenged that ruling on appeal.  Sandoz cited that finding of invalidity in its complaint.  The case is Sandoz Inc. v. Novo Nordisk Inc., 11cv13594,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  Interviews/Speeches  Fed’s Dudley Sees Growth Rebounding, Low Recession Risk  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William Dudley
speaks about the U.S. and  New Jersey  economies.  Dudley, 58, said yesterday in response to questions after a
speech in Newark, New Jersey, that “We very much still expect
the economy to recover.” Growth during the second half of 2011
will be “significantly firmer” than in the first six months,
and the risk of recession remains “quite low,” he said.  To listen to Dudley’s remarks, click here.  Comings and Goings  Davis Polk  Hires Former Federal Trade Commission Economist  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP said Howard A. Shelanski, a
former deputy director at the Federal Trade Commission, joined
the law firm’s Washington office to strengthen its antitrust and
regulatory business.  Shelanski, 47, was a law professor at the University of
California at Berkeley from 1997 to 2009, where he co-directed
the Berkeley Center for Law and Technology from 2000 to 2008,
Davis Polk said in a statement.  He also served as chief economist at the Federal
Communications Commission from 1999 to 2000, and from 1998 to
1999 was a senior economist to the President’s Council of
Economic Advisers, Davis Polk said. He was deputy director of
the FTC’s Bureau of Economics from 2009 until this year, where
he was responsible for the antitrust portfolio.  Davis Polk said it has been bolstering its Washington
office with lawyers with senior government experience during the
past three years, including Susan C. Ervin, former deputy
director and chief counsel of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, and Michael Sohn, former general counsel of the FTC.  Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board Names Polsky Chairman  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board appointed new
officers and board members including Alan D. Polsky, senior vice
president at investment firm Dougherty & Co. LLC, who will serve
as chairman of the MSRB, the board said in a statement
yesterday.  Robert A. Lamb, president of Lamont Financial Services
Corp., will serve as vice chairman, according to the statement.
Officer terms are for one year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 