-- 
Greek Arrears Give Drugmakers ‘Collateral Damage’

-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-08-19T09:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/greek-arrears-give-drugmakers-collateral-damage-correct-.html
(Corrects story published Aug. 17 to show in 11th
paragraph that costs relate to  Fresenius SE (FRE) , the largest
shareholder of Fresenius Medical Care AG.)  Greece’s unpaid hospital bills are
leaving drugmakers including  CSL Ltd. (CSL) , Australia’s largest, and
 Roche Holding AG (ROG)  to write down the value of bonds from the cash-
strapped government’s health-care system.  CSL posted a A$25 million ($26 million) charge against
earnings today because of declines in the value of securities
used to settle outstanding payments due from hospitals in
southern Europe, mostly from Greece.  “You would have to describe it as collateral damage,” CSL
Managing Director  Brian McNamee  said on a conference call today
to discuss the company’s full-year earnings. “We have been
selling important, arguably life-saving, medicines to the Greek
population through government-owned hospitals. They seem to have
a habit of not paying very rapidly.”  Greece , struggling under debt equal to almost 1 1/2 times
the size of its economy, announced a new drug-pricing plan last
year to cut costs, prompting companies including Novo Nordisk
A/S of Denmark to withdraw some products. The country  spent 2.4
percent  of gross domestic product in 2007 on pharmaceuticals,
the highest of among Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development countries.  Bad debts at state-owned hospitals in Greece will affect
the “entire pharmaceutical industry,” McNamee said.  Bonds for Receivables  Greece’s health ministry last year  said  it planned to use
about  5.4 billion euros  in zero-coupon bonds to settle health
care-related debts piled up from 2007 to 2009, the health
ministry last year.  “The pharmaceutical industry in Greece realizes how
critical the circumstances are,” Dionysis Filiotis, chairman of
the Hellenic Association of Pharmaceutical Companies, said in a
May  interview  posted on its website.  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, has said
its receivables arrears from Greece were converted into a bond,
which it sold.  “We had a discount of 26 percent, but we have now the
cash,” Roche Chief Financial Officer Alan Hippe said on a July
21 conference call. “And cash is what counts. We are monitoring
our exposure, especially in Southern  Europe  very, very
diligently.”  Eighty percent of drug products bought by the Greek
government from January 2010 to March 2011 were in arrears, Dow
Jones reported in June.  ‘Infamous Zero Bonds’  Fresenius SE, the largest shareholder of Fresenius Medical
Care AG, the world’s biggest kidney dialysis provider, and
 Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  have also reported costs on Greek debt
in their profit and loss statements in the past month.  “We have received these infamous zero bonds from the Greek
government,” Stephan Sturm, chief financial officer of  Bad
Homburg , Germany-based Fresenius SE, said on an Aug. 2
conference call with analysts and investors. “A good chunk of
that has been sold and the respective effect has gone through
the P&L.”  Baxter, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , took a charge in the
second quarter of last year to recognize the valuation on bonds
it received in lieu of payment, Robert J. Hombach, Baxter’s
chief financial officer, said on a July 21 conference call.  “Historically, while the governments have paid on a longer
timeline in Spain, Portugal, Greece and Italy, they have paid,”
Hombach said. “Greece I think is a bit more of an acute
situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  
 Nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale in  Singapore  at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 