-- 
Grupo Mexico Unit Must Pay Law Firm Baker Botts $122.4 Million in Fees

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-08-19T18:03:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/grupo-mexico-unit-must-pay-law-firm-baker-botts-122-4-million-in-fees.html
Grupo  Mexico  SAB’s U.S. mining unit
must pay $122.4 million in fees and $6.5 million in expenses to
the Houston law firm the Mexican copper producer spent six years
fighting in federal courts in  Texas .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Richard S. Schmidt in  Corpus Christi ,
Texas, yesterday ordered Asarco LLC to pay the fees and expenses
of Baker Botts LLP, which won a judgment potentially worth more
than $6 billion against Grupo Mexico in 2008 related to Asarco’s
bankruptcy. The case was settled when Grupo Mexico agreed to pay
creditors about $2.5 billion to bring Asarco out of bankruptcy.  “The results obtained in these cases are nothing short of
extraordinary,” Schmidt wrote, explaining why he thought the
fees were justified.  The judge credited Baker Botts with winning billions of
dollars for Asarco’s creditors, who included victims of asbestos
poisoning and governmental agencies responsible for cleaning up
mining pollution.  “Baker Botts performed at an exemplary level,” Schmidt
wrote in an opinion issued last month. The payment order was
issued yesterday.  Group Mexico, acting through a U.S. holding company, put
Asarco into bankruptcy in 2005 seeking protection from creditors
owed billions of dollars. At the start of the bankruptcy,
Asarco, a copper miner based in Tucson,  Arizona , was in danger
of being forced to liquidate, Schmidt wrote.  Grupo Mexico Suit  After the judge installed independent directors to run
Asarco, Baker Botts sued Grupo Mexico, accusing the Mexican
mining company of causing Asarco’s bankruptcy by stripping its
subsidiary of its most valuable assets and then abandoning it.  The victory over Grupo Mexico “is likely the largest
fraudulent transfer judgment in Chapter 11 history,” Schmidt
wrote. Chapter 11 refers to the section of the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code companies use to reorganize.  G. Irvin Terrell was Baker Botts’s lead attorney in the
fraudulent-transfer suit. Jack L. Kinzie was the lead lawyer in
the bankruptcy case before Grupo Mexico regained control of
Asarco and hired a new  law firm .  Asarco objected to the fees. The company’s new attorney,
 Marty L. Brimmage Jr.  of the law firm Haynes & Boone LLP.,
didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail requesting comment on the
fee decision.  The case is In re Asarco LLC, 05-21207,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of Texas (Corpus Christi).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Farr  at   sfarr@bloomberg.net . 