-- 
Libyan Rebels Claim to Advance on Tripoli

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-08-20T16:33:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/libya-rebels-say-refinery-captured-tripoli-environs-are-almost-surrounded.html
Libyan rebels say they are advancing
toward Tripoli after overcoming a force commanded by  Muammar Qaddafi ’s son Khamis to capture the western town of Zlitan.  Rebel units from the besieged city of Misrata attacked
Zlitan under an artillery barrage, linking up with other
opposition fighters inside the town, according to a statement
late yesterday from their military council in Misrata. The
rebels also approached Wadi Kam, a valley 140 kilometers (85
miles) west of Tripoli, the capital, it said. The fighting left
at least 31 rebels dead and 137 wounded, medics in Misrata said.  “Rebels are now controlling Zlitan, and they are located
near Wadi Kam,” said the council spokesman, Munir Mohammed.
There was no independent confirmation of the reports of the
rebel operation in the valley or in Zlitan, also about 140
kilometers from the capital.  The advance, if confirmed, adds pressure on Qaddafi after
the rebels said they have taken Zawiya, west of the capital, and
Ghariyan to the south. The claims of progress in the rebels’
attempt to isolate Tripoli come after weeks of stalemate in the
sixth month of the conflict. Qaddafi, who seized power in the
oil-rich North African nation in a 1969 coup, controls the
capital and has told his followers to keep fighting the rebels
and to resist the North Atlantic Treaty Organization airstrikes.  The NATO airstrikes on Tripoli killed 27 civilians, the
state-run JANA news agency said today, citing the government
spokesman, Moussa Ibrahim.  Oil Minister  With the rebels advancing toward the capital, Libyan Oil
Minister Omran Abu Kraa headed to  Tunisia  rather than returning
to his country after a trip to  Italy , the state-run Tunisian
news agency TAP said. Shokri Ghanem, Libya’s former top oil
official, defected to join the rebels, according to a June 1
statement from the rebel Transitional National Council.  The rebels announced late yesterday that they had control
of the  oil refinery  at Zawiya, had shut its supply to Tripoli
and almost encircled the outskirts of the capital. Rebels took
the main square in the city,  Associated Press  reported today.
Qaddafi’s forces remain in the eastern part of the city, the
news service said.  Libya’s biggest refinery, at Ras Lanuf, which can produce
220,000 barrels a day, has stopped operating because of the
fighting. Zawiya’s refinery, which supplies fuel to government
forces, has a capacity of 120,000 barrels of oil a day, almost a
third of  Libya ’s total.  Strikes on Headquarters  U.K. warplanes hit the intelligence and police headquarters
in central Tripoli yesterday as part of the NATO campaign, the
Royal Air Force said today in an e-mailed statement.  In a separate attack, British aircraft struck a compound in
the Abu Salim district that is thought to house the main
operations room of the Ministry of Interior’s security forces,
according to the statement.  The  International Organization  of Migration is working to
evacuate foreigners, many of them Egyptians, who want to leave
Tripoli and appealed for funds to carry out the operation,
according to a statement yesterday from the Geneva-based agency.
The agency has been using ships to evacuate migrants, most of
them North African, from Misrata, it said.  “A rapid response on this is critical to ensuring that in
the small window of opportunity we have to get people out of
Tripoli, we are not constrained by funding issues,” Pasquale
Lupoli, the IOM’s Cairo-based regional director for the  Middle
East  and North Africa, said in the statement.  Zawiya Refinery  Inside Zlitan, fighters battled soldiers who had holed up
inside houses, said the rebel military council, which claimed to
have captured Zlitan’s internal security chief, Ali Bin Saleem.
The council said Qaddafi’s forces fought back using tanks.  “It’s bad; it’s too much,” said Misrata’s health
director, Khalid Abu Falgha, as his hospital’s entrance hall
filled with wounded fighters. “How you can cope with these
casualties? The hospital is full.”  Outside the hospital gates, hundreds of Misratans arrived
to donate blood or search for news on the dead and missing.  Misrata radio stations broadcast statements throughout the
day urging Zlitan’s civilians to remain indoors, saying “stay
in your homes; you will not be harmed.”  Rebel fighters rescued civilians who had been trapped by
the fighting, according to the council.  “A number of families from Misrata caught in Zlitan, and
who have not been able to leave, have been freed,” the council
said. “We are trying to return them to Misrata.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Stephen in Misrata through the Dubai newsroom at 
   barden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 