-- 
Libya Rebels Say They Almost Surround Tripoli

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-08-19T12:34:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/libya-rebels-say-they-ve-taken-refinery-almost-surround-tripoli-outskirts.html
Rebels in the west of Libya say
they’ve captured the  oil terminal  that supplies fuel to Muammar Qaddafi’s forces and have almost encircled the outskirts of the
capital, Tripoli.  The announcement of the seizure of the facility outside the
town of Zawiya came late yesterday on the rebels’ radio station
in the city of Misrata, Libya Freedom Voice. There was no
independent confirmation of the report.  The opposition fighters battled government forces for
control of the refinery yesterday, and by noon local time held
three-quarters of it, said Colonel Ahmed Bani, the rebels’
defense spokesman. They stopped the flow of oil to the capital,
56 kilometers (35 miles) eastward along a coastal road, he said.  The claims of progress in the rebels’ attempt to isolate
Tripoli come after weeks of stalemate in the sixth month of the
conflict. Qaddafi, who seized power in the oil-rich North
African nation in a military coup in 1969, controls the capital
and has told his followers to keep fighting the rebels and to
resist the North Atlantic Treaty Organization airstrikes.  Libya ’s biggest refinery, at Ras Lanuf, which can produce
220,000 barrels a day, has stopped operating because of the
fighting. Zawiya has a refining capacity of 120,000 barrels of
oil a day, almost a third of Libya’s total.  Battle for Zlitan  Rebels based in Misrata are battling government forces for
control of Zlitan, a town 160 kilometers east of Tripoli, the
Misrata Military Council said in statement. Rebel units pushed
into Zlitan under the cover of an artillery bombardment during
the morning hours today, and government units responded with
tank fire, the council said.  Opposition forces captured Zlitan’s head of internal
security, Ali Bin Saleem, according to the statement.  Rebel fighters rescued civilians who had been trapped by
the fighting, according to the council.  “A number of families from Misrata caught in Zlitan, and
who have not been able to leave, have been freed,” the council
said. “We are trying to return them to Misrata.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Stephen in Misrata through the Dubai newsroom at 
   barden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 