-- 
Miles Davis’s Trademark Owners Sue New York’s Miles’ Cafe

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-08-19T21:12:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/miles-davis-trademark-owners-sue-new-york-s-miles-cafe-for-infringement.html
The owners of the late jazz
trumpeter  Miles Davis ’s trademarks sued the operators of a
Manhattan jazz club called Miles’ Cafe alleging infringement.  Miles Davis Properties LLC, which includes two of Davis’s
children and a nephew, said today the club and an owner, Satoru
“Miles” Kobayashi, violated registered trademarks including
one of a silhouette of the musician and composer playing his
trumpet, in a complaint in federal court in Manhattan.  “Defendants are intentionally free-riding off the goodwill
associated with the Miles Davis marks by using them to promote a
jazz club entitled Miles’ Cafe in a way that is likely to
mislead the public,” lawyers for the trademark owners said in
the complaint.  Kobayashi, a trumpeter, told a publication that Miles Davis
appeared to him in a dream and told him to change his first name
to Miles and open a cafe in his name, according to the
complaint.  No one answered the phone at the Miles’ Cafe on 52nd Street
in  Manhattan .  Davis, who died in 1991, released 67 studio albums and
51 live albums, court papers state. His 1959 album “‘Kind of
Blue” is the best-selling jazz album of all time, according to
the complaint. A pioneer in various styles of jazz including
cool, hard bop, modal and fusion, Davis received eight Grammy
awards and was inducted into the Rock ‘n’ Roll Hall of Fame.  Miles Davis Properties has not authorized any use of the
name for a jazz club or other entertainment venue, the complaint
states.  The case is Miles Davis Properties LLC v. Miles’ Cafe
Corp., 11-5816, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York 
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 