-- 
India May Turn Sugar Importer Like China on Food Demand

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-08-19T10:06:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/india-seen-emulating-china-as-sugar-buyer-on-surge-in-candy-cookie-demand.html
India, the biggest sugar user, may
produce less than it consumes as early as October 2012, possibly
spurring the first net imports in three years, said  ITC Ltd. (ITC)  
That would push up global prices, said Standard Chartered Plc.  “India is likely to become a structural importer” like
 China , said Somnath Chatterjee, ITC’s head of procurement, who
said the company was the third-biggest domestic sugar buyer
after  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and PepsiCo Inc. Rising demand for cookies
and candy will outstrip production curbed by low domestic prices,
he said in an interview yesterday.  Buying by India would add to demand from China, the second-
biggest user, and  Indonesia , draining global supplies. While
harvests may exceed demand by 4 million metric tons in the year
starting October this year, prices may stay high because of
importer demand to replenish stockpiles, the  International Sugar
Organization  said. Futures gained 48 percent in the past year.  “I think the market would probably move into a sustained
bull cycle” if India becomes a net importer, said  Abah Ofon , an
agricultural analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, in a phone
interview from Singapore.  Sugar for October delivery fell 1.3 percent to 28.75 cents
per pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  today, declining for
the second day. Futures gained 3.4 percent this week on concern
output may decline in  Brazil , the top producer and exporter.  Food Industry  The food industry’s share of sugar demand in India has
surged to 70 percent from 50 percent five years ago, Chatterjee
said. Demand may increase to 30 million tons by 2020 from 23
million tons in 2011-2012, he said.  Prices in parts of  India  have dropped below the cost of
production because of the high rates the government requires
millers to pay farmers for their cane, said Chatterjee of ITC, a
producer of cookies and candies and also the country’s biggest
cigarette maker.  The losses may mean millers are unable to pay farmers,
causing a decline in planting of the cane that’s crushed to make
sugar, he said in a phone interview from Bengaluru. Domestic
prices in India, the biggest producer after Brazil, are the
second-lowest in the world, Abinash Verma, director general of
the Indian Sugar Mills Association, said Aug. 14.  A bull-run in the sugar market will only end once an
exporter comes up with an additional 8 million tons to boost
global trade, said Ofon from  Standard Chartered . That’s how much
it would take to fill the gap created by the loss of India’s
exports and its potential import requirements, he said.  Shipments, Prices  India shipped a record 5.83 million tons in 2007-2008,
according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data, before it
became a net importer. The country resumed net exports this year.  The nation may boost output to 26 million tons in 2011-2012
from 24.2 million tons a year earlier, leading to a surplus of 4
million tons and creating the potential for “large quantities”
to be exported, Verma said Aug. 15. Exports would bolster local
prices that have fallen 8 percent this year, said the Cane
Committees’ Association, a growers’ group.  “The government should allow exports of the entire surplus
as our production is exceeding demand and we have comfortable
stockpiles,” said Awadhes Mishra, a former president of the
Association in the state of  Uttar Pradesh . “There is no need to
dump sugar in the country unnecessarily as production is also
going rise next year.”  Supplies may total 29.1 million tons in the year ending
Sept. 30 compared with demand of 21.1 million tons, according to
the food ministry. The government has allowed exports of 2.6
million tons since Oct. 1, it said.  -- Editors: Ovais Subhani, James Poole  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Cebu, via the  Singapore  newsroom at
   ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  