-- 
India Stocks Could Drop Further on Valuations, Blackstone Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-08-19T06:07:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/india-stocks-could-drop-further-on-valuations-blackstone-says.html
Punita Kumar Sinha, chief investment
officer at Blackstone Asia Advisors LLC., comments on the
outlook for Indian stocks. She spoke in an interview to
Bloomberg-UTV today.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index lost 321.62
points, or 2 percent, to 16,148.17 at 11:30 a.m. in Mumbai, set
for the lowest close since May 25, 2010. The gauge has dropped
23 percent from a Nov. 5 peak, exceeding the 20 percent level
marking a so-called  bear market  for some investors.  On the outlook for stocks:  “India will come out OK from the present crisis. It all
depends if we have a third round of quantitative easing in the
U.S. and commodities rally, or whether growth continues to be
weak and therefore commodity prices fall, which will help India.
I don’t know which way commodity prices will end up. We expect
markets to remain volatile for the next six months.  ‘‘All globally exposed Indian companies will face issues in
terms of earnings growth. The one-day Infosys fall is
surprising. There is a lot of panic-selling out there on the
back of growth fears. Current panic-selling will eventually
improve valuations.’’  On global concerns:  ‘‘I don’t think we could end up in a Lehman-like situation.
There could be potential defaults. The fiscal situation in the
U.S. and other countries is not so great. Banks are facing a lot
of concern on sovereign risks. We are not there yet on
valuations. We expect further stimulus measures in the West.
Tight liquidity issues remain a concern.  ‘‘There are not many attractive opportunities to invest.
This is a crisis of growth. Growth in emerging markets will be
affected. Right now we are seeing redemptions bringing down
valuations. At some point money will have to relook at growth
economies when valuations are attractive. This is not a long-
term problem.’’  On valuations:  ‘‘Valuations are near the lowest in the U.S.  India  is not
cheap at these levels. At 12 to 13 times, it is good. On a pure
valuation basis, India could see some more downside. We saw a
sharp slide in the U.S. despite the fact that valuations are so
low. Markets where valuations currently are more attractive are
the developed markets.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  