-- 
Indian Graft Crusader Hazare Challenges Singh With Delhi Hunger Strike

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-08-19T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/indian-anti-corruption-activist-released-from-jail-to-start-hunger-strike.html
Indian anti-corruption campaigner
Anna Hazare today enters the second day of a public hunger
strike, watched by supporters, in a challenge to a government
that has failed to douse criticism of its steps to curb graft.  “We will not leave this place” until stronger anti-
corruption legislation is brought before parliament, Hazare,
dressed in his trademark white tunic and cap, told the crowd
yesterday after he reached the Ramlila ground in New Delhi from
Tihar Jail, where he spent three nights.  Nationwide  protests  and candle-lit vigils over Hazare’s
earlier detention -- fueled by social media websites and 24-hour
coverage on television -- have put Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh ’s government on the defensive. While Hazare’s demands have
tapped widespread anger over bribe taking, his direct-action
tactics have been denounced by Singh as “totally
misconceived.”  Hazare, 74, was taken into custody Aug. 16 as he prepared
to break police restrictions and begin an indefinite hunger
strike to demand that the prime minister’s office, judges and
those bureaucrats omitted from the scope of the planned Lokpal,
or Ombudsman, Bill be included within its ambit.  While authorities said he was free to leave  Tihar  the same
day, Hazare refused to do so until conditions on his protest
were eased. He was later allowed by the authorities to hold his
protest for 15 days. He began fasting Aug. 16.  ‘Bend a Little’  “Aggression from both the sides is easing now,” said
 Sanjay Kumar , a New Delhi-based analyst at the  Centre for the
Study of Developing Societies . “They will try to engage in
dialogue, negotiate, bend a little bit and will work out some
compromise so that a new form of the bill can emerge. But it
will take some time.”  Singh’s administration, which has been embroiled by graft
charges since October, has seen its legislative agenda grind to
a halt amid the allegations, the biggest of which involves the
2008 sale of permits to run mobile-phone services that the
country’s auditor says may have cost the exchequer $31 billion.
Federal investigators and the courts have charged and jailed the
former telecommunications minister, a lawmaker and company
executives tied to the case as their trials continue.  In Mumbai, the city’s tiffin carriers, who transport
lunches every day, stopped work yesterday for the first time in
120 years to support Hazare.  ‘Crusade Against Corruption’  “We have to make our contribution in the crusade against
corruption because the rich are getting richer and poor are
getting poorer,” said Raghunath Medge, president of the Bombay
Tiffin Box Supply Charity Trust.  Amid demonstrations in large cities and charges of
arrogance from political opponents, Singh on Aug. 17 defended
the police decision to arrest Hazare, saying the protest
leader’s attempt to impose his ideas on legislators through
popular protest was “fraught with grave consequences for our
parliamentary democracy.”  Singh’s rivals, many of which have reservations over
Hazare’s demands to give sweeping powers to the proposed anti-
corruption agency, have rounded on a prime minister who has
twice this year had to publicly deny he’d become a lame-duck
leader as the graft allegations forced ministers to resign.  A hunger strike by Hazare in April first tapped nationwide
anger over graft cases, including alleged irregularities in
completing contracts for last year’s Commonwealth Games in  New
Delhi , and forced the government to invite social activists for
talks on framing new regulations to fight corruption.  The Lokpal legislation has now been referred to a panel of
lawmakers for scrutiny.  Singh’s government is considering introducing a Judicial
Standards and Accountability Bill that will make it easier to
remove judges accused of graft, and has proposals to bar
candidates standing for regional or national assemblies if they
face charges with a sentence of five years or more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  