-- 
Israel ‘Sorry’ for Egyptian Deaths Amid Attack

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-21T00:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/israel-gaza-violence-is-worst-since-april-after-attacks-near-eilat-resort.html
The  Arab League  will hold an
emergency meeting today after  Israel  stopped short of
apologizing for the deaths of three Egyptian policemen amid
attacks Aug. 18 near a southern Israeli resort town.  The meeting, being held in response to a Palestinian
request, is to discuss the “grave situation caused by the
continuous Israeli aggression on Gaza,”  Egypt ’s state-run
Middle East News Agency said, citing the Cairo-based group’s
deputy secretary-general, Ahmed Ben Heli.  “Israel is sorry for the deaths of Egyptian policemen
during the attack along the Egyptian-Israeli border,” Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said by phone that
“Israel expresses deep regret” for the Egyptian loss.  While Israel’s statement is a positive step, it doesn’t
meet the seriousness of the event or the anger of the Egyptian
people, Information Minister Osama Heikal said in a statement
early today after the Cabinet met in Cairo. Egypt earlier said
it was withdrawing its ambassador to Israel until an apology was
made.  Israeli officials have said the gunmen who killed eight
people near Eilat came from the  Gaza Strip  and entered Israel
from Egypt’s Sinai Peninsula. Israel is investigating the
possibility its forces inadvertently killed the Egyptians while
shooting at the attackers, said a military officer who declined
to be identified, citing regulations.  Strikes on Gaza  The Aug. 18 assaults have been followed by a round of
Israeli airstrikes on Gaza and rocket fire from Gaza into Israel.
The violence between the two sides is the worst since April and
has raised the possibility of a more extensive Israeli military
operation in the seaside strip controlled by Hamas. The Islamic
group has denied involvement in the attacks.  The death toll from Israeli strikes reached 14, according
to Gaza’s head of  emergency services , Adham Abu Selmeya. The
casualties came during what the Israeli military said was the
targeting of smuggling tunnels, weapons factories and squads
launching rockets. At least 55 rockets hit Israel yesterday,
wounding four people, damaging cars and buildings, the military
said.  Hamas ousted forces loyal to Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah faction in 2007 to gain control
of Gaza after winning parliamentary elections the year earlier.
A three-week operation that Israel began in December 2008 to
halt rocket fire from Gaza left more than 1,300 Palestinians and
13 Israelis dead.  No Negotiations  Hamas, which has refused to negotiate with Israel or
recognize any agreements signed with it, is considered a
terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European
Union.  The Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades, the armed wing of Hamas,
said it had fired four Grad rockets at the Israeli town of
Ofakim, where three people were injured, according to a text
message sent yesterday to journalists in Gaza. Islamic Jihad, a
smaller Gaza militant group, sent a text message to journalists
yesterday, claiming responsibility for firing 15 Soviet-designed
Grad rockets at Israel.  One Israeli died and at least seven were injured by a
rocket fired into the southern Israeli city of Beersheba,
according to Israeli Police Commander Yohanan Danino. The
Popular Resistance Committee, an umbrella group for Gaza
militants that isn’t affiliated with Hamas and is blamed by
Israel for the Aug. 18 attacks, said in a text message it had
fired the rocket.  Security Council   Abbas asked the Palestinians’ United Nations envoy,  Riyad Mansour , to demand an urgent Security Council session “to force
Israel to stop its attacks on Gaza,” the chief Palestinian
negotiator,  Saeb Erakat , said by phone yesterday.  The so-called Quartet on Middle East peace that includes
the U.S., the European Union, the UN and Russia called for
restraint from all sides and expressed concern about the
security situation in Sinai, according to an e-mailed statement.  The violence comes amid Israeli concern that Egyptian
security forces have been losing control of the border area
since the February ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak . Natural-
gas supplies to Israel, which receives about 40 percent of the
fuel from Egypt, were disrupted after four attacks on the
pipeline network between Feb. 5 and July 12.  Sinai Peninsula   The military officer from Israel’s Southern Command who
spoke anonymously told reporters the attack near Eilat was
carried out by about 15 Palestinians who traveled from Gaza into
Egypt’s Sinai Peninsula, from where they infiltrated into Israel.
There is less security along the border between Israel and Sinai
than between Gaza and Israel.  Egypt’s North Sinai governor, Major General Al-Sayed Abdel-
Wahab Mabrouk, denied Israeli claims that the men who carried
out the attacks entered Israel from Egypt, MENA said on Aug. 18.  Following the Egyptian Cabinet statement, Barak instructed
the army to conduct an investigation into the deaths of the
Egyptian policemen, and also carry out a joint inquiry with
Egyptian counterparts, according to the statement from his
office.  “The peace agreement between Israel and Egypt has great
importance and huge strategic value for the stability of the
 Middle East ,” Barak said.  The accord was signed in 1979 and called for Israel to
withdraw from Sinai, which it had seized in a 1967 war. The
withdrawal was completed in 1982.  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index closed down 3.8 percent on
Aug. 18, the largest drop in almost two weeks. Israel’s credit-
default swaps, or the cost of insuring government debt against
non-payment for five years, rose seven basis points Aug. 19 to
159, the highest level in a week, according to London prices
from CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 