-- 
Japan Calls for G-7 Coordination as Asian Officials Seek to Calm Investors

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s o n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-08-19T09:34:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/japan-says-g-7-eyeing-market-turmoil-as-china-urges-rebuilding-confidence.html
Japan  called on Group of Seven
nations to work closely to counter market turmoil and Asian
officials sought to calm investors as stocks slumped on concern
the U.S. recovery is faltering.  The G-7 needs “very close cooperation in coming weeks,”
Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said in Tokyo, where
the Topix index fell to a two-year low. Hong Kong financial
official K.C. Chan urged investors to “stay calm” and not be
“spooked by the market,” as the  Hang Seng Index  slumped 3.1
percent. In Beijing, Vice President Xi Jinping said his nation
will avoid an economic hard landing.  Plunging equity markets are crushing consumer and business
confidence, worsening the outlook for a global economy already
hampered by the debt burdens of developed nations. Speculation
that European banks may have insufficient capital and signs of
weakness in the  U.S. economy  are helping to drive a stock rout
that returned to  Asia  today.  “Business confidence is tailing off and global growth
slowing, and  Europe ’s debt situation appears to be getting worse
and worse without any coordinated policy response,” said Matt Riordan, who helps manage almost $6.6 billion in Sydney at
Paradice Investment Management Pty. “The worst case is that you
go back to a 2008-type financial crisis.”  In South Korea, the financial regulator urged insurers to
boost capital in preparation for a potential crisis, and the
benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI)  plunged 6.2 percent, the most since 2008.
South Korea’s exchange earlier said it temporarily halted
program trading of shares on the Kospi after futures tumbled.  ‘All Necessary Measures’  Asked how policy makers should respond to market turmoil,
Noda referred reporters to an Aug. 8 pledge by G-7 finance
ministers and central bank governors to “take all necessary
measures to support financial stability and growth.” He didn’t
specify any likely next step.  A past example of joint action is the intervention that
temporarily weakened Japan’s currency after the nation’s March
earthquake. Developed nations are hampered in stimulating their
economies because of their debt burdens, and have limited or no
room for interest-rate cuts after reductions that countered the
financial crisis of 2008.  In Beijing, Xi told U.S. counterpart Joe Biden and business
executives that global confidence must be rebuilt after
“destabilizing factors” intensified. Xi said Biden briefed him
on the steps America was taking to spur growth and tackle its
deficit, with the Chinese leader expressing confidence in the
U.S. economy’s resilience.  China ’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index closed 1 percent
lower, down about 10 percent for the year.  ‘Stay Calm’  In  Hong Kong , Chan, the secretary for financial services
and the Treasury, told Bloomberg Television that investors
should “stay calm” and not be “spooked by the market.”
Market volatility may persist as investors monitor the
sovereign-debt crisis and the risk of a “double-dip” recession
in the U.S., he said.  In Seoul, central bank official Min Sung Kee said that
investors seem “too nervous” and are reacting “more than what
I expected.” In a phone interview, Min, director general of the
financial markets department, said that officials are “watching
the markets 24 hours a day and we need to monitor the U.S.
market more closely tonight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net  