-- 
Federal Judge Won’t Issue Interim Order in Carl Lewis Election Case

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-19T21:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/judge-won-t-issue-interim-order-in-carl-lewis-new-jersey-election-case.html
A federal judge declined to issue an
interim ruling on a decision by  New Jersey ’s top election
official not to certify former Olympian Carl Lewis for the
state’s general election ballot in November.  While Secretary of State Kimberly Guadagno’s Aug. 15
decision may seem inconsistent with an interpretation of a
federal appeals court ruling, it was something “she felt was
her statutory obligation,” U.S. District Judge Noel Hillman
said during a hearing today in Camden, New Jersey. He also
denied Lewis’s request to depose Guadagno on her initial finding
that he was not qualified to run for senate in the state’s 8th
Legislative District.  “I’m not convinced that the decision of the secretary of
state calls for my immediate response,” Hillman said. “I make
no ruling or findings as it relates to any violation of the
court’s order.”  Lewis, a 49-year-old Democrat, persuaded the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Philadelphia to stay an April 26 ruling by Guadagno
that found him ineligible to run for office because of residency
requirements. The ruling temporarily allowed Lewis’s name on the
ballot for the June 7 primary election until Hillman could
decide the constitutionality of the state’s residency provision
as it was applied to the former athlete.  Lawyers for Lewis, who secured the Democratic nomination in
the uncontested primary, asked Hillman to address Guadagno’s
latest action and clarify that the status quo remains in the
case.  ‘Clear Message’  “The voters are entitled to a clear message,” William
Tambussi, an attorney for Lewis, said. “The voters are entitled
to some understanding of where we stand.”  Lewis, who grew up in New Jersey before moving to Texas and
 California , is fighting to represent a district that has
traditionally elected Republicans. Incumbent Dawn Marie Addiego,
a Republican, was appointed to fill the vacancy left by  Phil Haines , who was tapped for a judgeship.  The nine-time Olympic gold medalist argued that he bought a
home in New Jersey in 2005, which made him a state resident. He
got a state driver’s license in 2006 and became a volunteer
assistant track coach at Willingboro High School, his alma
mater, in 2007.  Guadagno, a Republican who is also the lieutenant governor,
said the record showed Lewis didn’t buy his current home until
Nov. 16, 2007, eight days after the cutoff. She also argued that
Lewis certified he was a California resident each time he voted
there in three elections in 2008 and one in 2009.  “There is no immediate harm to Mr. Lewis,” Donna Kelly,
an assistant attorney general said during the hearing. “We’re
not at a point of no return for this November election.”  Information on candidates for the November election must be
submitted by Sept. 8 in time for printing the ballots by Sept.
18, James T. Dugan, assistant county counsel for Atlantic
County, said after the hearing.  The federal case is Lewis v. Guadagno, 1:11-cv-02381, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  