-- 
Kenyan Central Bank Says It Will No Longer Display Discount Window Rate

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-19T11:56:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/kenyan-central-bank-says-it-will-no-longer-display-discount-window-rate.html
Kenya ’s central bank said it has
stopped publishing its overnight lending rate and will only
reveal the figure to borrowers when they are seeking funds.  The rate surged for the fourth consecutive day to 17.89
percent yesterday after the bank applied a penalty charge on its
overnight discount window to deter investors from using it as a
normal source of funds. The central bank had posted its discount
facility rate on the front page of its  website  every day
starting Aug. 15, when the rules came into force.  “The Central Bank of Kenya will share the discount rate
with the borrowing banks on a bilateral basis when they come to
borrow through the facility,” the Nairobi-based bank said today
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Previously, the bank applied its key lending rate,
currently set at 6.25 percent, to the loans. Under the new
formula, it adds 3 percentage points to the benchmark interest
rate or the previous day’s  interbank rate , whichever is higher.  The central bank may want to divert attention from the
increasing cost of borrowing to help  interest rates  stabilize,
said Kennedy Butiko, deputy head of treasury at Nairobi-based
Bank of Africa Ltd.  “The formula the central introduced has dragged the
interbank rate up, and it looked as if it would just keep going
and going,” Butiko said by phone. Rising lending rates had
“brought some panic to the market.”  The interbank rate was at 16.92 percent today, compared
with an average of  6.45 percent  for the week ending Aug. 10,
according to the bank’s website. Three-month borrowing costs
rose to a nine-year high of  9.258 percent  on Aug. 18.  “The overnight window was being used a source of liquidity
and that is not supposed to be the case,” central bank Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u said in an interview yesterday. “The best thing
was to slam a penalty on the window.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 