-- 
Kenya Central Bank Governor Sees Slower Inflation Once Somali Famine Eases

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-19T10:13:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/kenya-central-bank-governor-sees-slower-inflation-once-somali-famine-eases.html
Kenyan central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said he’s confident inflation will slow in coming months
after being pushed higher by surging demand for food from tens
of thousands of Somali refugees fleeing famine.  “We should see a significant decline in food prices by
October,” Ndung’u, 52, said in an interview yesterday in his
Nairobi office. The cost of corn,  Kenya ’s staple food, has begun
declining after the humanitarian crisis in the Horn of Africa
rekindled concern over food shortages and worsened the inflation
outlook, Ndung’u said. The drought in the region is the worst in
60 years, according to the  United Nations .  Kenya’s inflation accelerated for a ninth month in July, to
15.5 percent, driven by a 24 percent surge in food prices. The
jump in price growth has led to a 13 percent decline in the
shilling this year and a warning on Aug. 12 from Fitch Ratings
that a failure to lower inflation and stabilize the exchange
rate would bring downward pressure to bear on its  credit rating .  “A turnaround in inflation is expected in the next few
months,” according to notes provided by Ndung’u during the
interview.  The central bank aims to keep inflation within its 3 to 7
percent  target range . Growth in  East Africa ’s biggest economy is
expected to slow to 5.3 percent this year from 5.6 percent in
2010. That compares with a government target of boosting annual
growth to 10 percent and sustaining it through 2030.  Somali Refugees  Food prices in Kenya have risen as refugees fled Somalia to
the Dadaab refugee complex in northeastern Kenya, the world’s
biggest such facility with more than 400,000 people. The UN has
declared a famine in five regions of  Somalia  and predicted it
may spread across the country’s southern region and persist
until at least December.  “Food prices are coming down,” he said. “But even when they
are coming down, we have seen more hungry faces crossing the
border from Somalia and Kenya to compete for the already
constrained supply.”  The  Central Bank of Kenya  in March predicted inflation
would decelerate to 7.5 percent by year-end. Ndung’u wouldn’t
comment on what the bank’s current inflation forecast is. Food
costs in the domestic market may start declining as early as
September or more likely in October, he said.  Food Prices  Global food prices are close to the peak of 2008 and are
contributing to the humanitarian emergency in the Horn of
 Africa , the Washington-based  World Bank  said on Aug. 15. The
World Bank’s food-price index surged 33 percent in July as the
price of corn, sugar and wheat jumped.  Kenya’s food and fuel-price inflation may stay “elevated”
for the rest of the year, heightening wage demands, said Celeste Fauconnier, Africa analyst at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, who forecasts the overall rate may range between
13 percent and 15 percent through to October.  “Supply side factors are going to remain prevalent and we
also expect demand pressures to increase with minimum wage
demands,” Fauconnier said in a phone interview today. “Inflation
is a significant concern.”  Cyclical waves of inflation in Kenya are often triggered by
drought, and intensified by bad roads that make it difficult to
transport food from farms to the hungry, as well as the failure
to build up stockpiles during bumper harvests, Ndung’u said.  Rate Increases  Kenya’s central bank has increased the key lending rate
twice this year to head off inflation generated by rising global
 oil prices  and food costs. It left the benchmark rate unchanged
at its last meeting in July, saying that further rate increases
would do little to tame supply-side pressures.  The central bank tightened its policy again this week by
imposing a penalty on commercial banks borrowing from its
overnight discount window. That may reduce liquidity and lead to
a stronger shilling, Africa’s second-worst performing currency
this year, after neighboring  Uganda .  “The depreciation has supported tea and coffee earnings,
but raised the shilling cost of fuels and other inputs as well
as famine-related food imports,” Ndung’u said. “The depreciation
in the  exchange rate  could also ease balance-of-payment
pressures from rising imports.”  The shilling is expected to stabilize as tourism earnings
and remittances climb and Kenyan  interest rates  attract short-
term investment, Ndung’u said. Kenya’s three-month borrowing
costs rose to a nine-year high of 9.258 percent on Aug. 18.  Weaker Shilling  The shilling weakened 0.1 percent to 93.15 against the
dollar as of 12:03 in Nairobi today, compared with a close of
93.05 yesterday. On Aug. 9, the currency weakened to 95.10, its
lowest level since March 1994 when foreign-exchange controls
were removed.  “The importers are complaining about the exchange rate,”
Ndung’u said. “The exporters are so happy.”  Kenyan imports jumped 32 percent in June to 104.3 billion
shillings ($1.1 billion) from a year earlier, while exports grew
30 percent to 41.4 billion shillings, according to the Kenya
National Bureau of Statistics.  Under the rules introduced on Aug. 15, the central bank
applies a three-percentage point penalty to either the previous
day’s interbank rate or the benchmark lending rate, whichever is
higher.  The bank had previously applied its so-called Central Bank
Rate, currently at 6.25 percent. The overnight discount window
rate rose for the fourth straight day to 17.89 percent
yesterday, according to data on the central bank’s  website .  Fitch Ratings  as a B+ rating on Kenya’s long-term foreign-
currency debt, four levels below investment grade, with a stable
outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 