-- 
News Corp.’s Carey Holds Talks With Investors to Address Governance Issues

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-19T21:38:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/news-corp-s-carey-holds-talks-with-investors-to-address-governance-issues.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Chief Operating Officer
 Chase Carey , reacting to the scandal over phone hacking at the
News of the World tabloid, is holding discussions with some
large investors over governance and other concerns.  The California State Teachers’ Retirement System, which
held 3.86 million News Corp. Class A shares as of June 30, plans
to meet with top officials soon, said  Ricardo Duran , a
spokesman.  “Calstrs is involved in the engagement process, which
includes sending letters, holding conference calls and meetings,
with News Corp. management,” Duran said in an e-mail. “Because
this is delicate, we cannot say anything further about our
efforts.”  The outreach by News Corp., owner of Fox Broadcasting and
the Wall Street Journal, reflects investor concern over
succession plans for Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , the use of capital and family control of the company in
the wake of the scandal, two people with knowledge of the
situation said.  Carey, Murdoch’s second-in-command who also holds the title
of president, and David DeVoe, the company’s finance chief, are
conducting the briefings, according to a  fund manager  who
wouldn’t discuss the matter publicly and isn’t planning to take
part.  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based News
Corp., declined to comment.  Meeting Request  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , which
was aware of the discussions, won’t be participating, said  Brad Pacheco , a Calpers spokesman. The pension fund for state workers
owns 5 million Class A nonvoting and 1.38 million Class B voting
shares, according to Bloomberg data.  Last month, after the  Guardian newspaper  in the U.K.
reported News Corp.’s now-defunct News of the World tabloid had
hacked the voicemail of a murdered schoolgirl, the company hired
consultant Sard Verbinnen & Co. to survey investors.  Since then, executives including Murdoch and his son James,
News Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer, have faced
questions about the accuracy of testimony they gave to a British
Parliamentary panel investigating the hacking and the company’s
response to it.  Investors led by Glenview, Illinois-based Wespath
Investment Management, representing stockholders with 1.31
million News Corp. shares, requested a meeting with lead
independent board member Roderick Eddington in an Aug. 5 letter.  Anita Green, a spokeswoman for Wespath, declined to say
this week whether the investors would be meeting with management
of News Corp.  Succession, Acquisitions  In an earnings call on Aug. 10, News Corp. addressed some
of the investors’ concerns, including who might succeed Murdoch
as CEO. Murdoch controls the company through ownership of almost
40 percent of the voting stock.  “I hope that the job won’t be open in the near future,”
Murdoch said. “Chase is my partner. If anything happened to me,
I’m sure he’ll get it immediately if I went under a bus. But in
the end, succession’s a matter for the board.”  Carey, in turn, addressed possible acquisitions, saying the
company “will focus on modest investments, those in the tens or
hundreds of millions, not billions.”  Because of the scandal, News Corp. was forced to abandon
its 7.8-billion-pound ($12.8 billion) bid for the 61 percent of
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  it doesn’t own.  Share Drop  The British  law firm  Harbottle & Lewis released letters on
Aug. 16 that said Rupert Murdoch, 80, gave “inaccurate and
misleading” statements to Parliament explaining why News Corp.
had hired the law firm in 2007 to examine one phone-hacking
allegation. Two former News of the World executives said they
told  James Murdoch  in 2008 the practice was widespread,
contradicting the younger Murdoch’s testimony to the panel.  News Corp. fell 63 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $15.56 at 4
p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares have
declined 14 percent since the Guardian reported on July 4 that
News of the World accessed the voicemail of murdered teenager
Milly Dowler.  Bloomberg competes with News Corp. units in providing
financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  