-- 
Nigerian Banks Pare First Weekly Gain in Four on Global Growth Concern

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-08-19T12:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/nigerian-banks-pare-first-weekly-gain-in-four-on-global-growth-concern.html
Nigeria’s banking-stocks gauge
tumbled for the first day in seven, paring its first weekly gain
in four, as concern that global economic growth is faltering
outweighed domestic lenders’ earning reports.  The  Bloomberg NSE Banking (NGSEB10)  Index, which tracks the
performance of the 10 most capitalized lenders of  Africa ’s
biggest oil producer, snapped six days of increases, dropping
1.6 percent to 324.57 by 12:36 p.m. in Lagos. The decline pared
the measure’s advance this week to 0.6 percent.  Equities worldwide dropped after Citigroup cut its
forecasts for expansion in the U.S. after Morgan Stanley also
lowered its global growth projection to 3.9 percent from 4.2
percent and as an intensifying European debt crisis drove
investor outflows from riskier assets. This outweighed Nigerian
bank gains after  Access Bank Plc (ACCESS)  and  Guaranty Trust Bank Plc (GUARANTY) 
reported an increase in earnings.  “Even with the good news it’s not going to change the
whole picture with  risk aversion  globally,” Godfrey Mwanza, a
Johannesburg-based analyst at African Alliance Securities Ltd.,
said by phone today. “The fundamental story is continuing to
improve and there’s evidence that the market is appreciating
that a bit more, but it was pretty short lived.”  Guaranty Trust, the nation’s second-largest lender by
market capitalization, is on course to achieve a loan-growth
target of between 10 percent and 15 percent this year, Chief
Executive Officer Segun Agbaje, said Aug. 17. The Lagos-based
bank said Aug. 12 first-half net income rose 39 percent to 25.3
billion naira ($165 million).  Access Earnings  Access Bank’s operating profit for the six months to June
30 increased 15 percent to 15.5 billion naira and profit before
tax rose 6.1 percent to 10.4 billion naira, the Lagos-based
lender said Aug. 17. Access will pay a dividend of 20 kobo per
share for the period, it said.  The Central Bank of  Nigeria  injected 620 billion naira into
lenders in 2009 after loans to equity speculators contributed to
700 billion naira of non-performing debt. The central bank on
Aug. 6 nationalized Afribank Plc, Bank PHB Plc and Spring Bank
Plc on concern they won’t meet a Sept. 30 recapitalization
deadline. Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, set up by the
central bank to buy non-performing loans from the country’s
lenders, will supply the three banks with 679 billion naira.  Sterling Bank Plc of Nigeria agreed to acquire Equitorial
Trust Bank Plc, one of the bailed-out lenders, it said on Aug.
12.  Emerging-market equity funds posted $2.8 billion of
outflows in the week ended Aug. 17, extending the biggest
withdrawals since 2008 the previous week at $7.7 billion,
Citigroup Inc. analysts said in a report today, citing figures
by EPFR Global.  The withdrawal from global equity funds “seems pretty
extreme” and “the emerging-market guys will de-risk their
portfolios and they are the big sellers as far as Africa-focused
funds are concerned,” said Mwanza. “Even with the completion
of the nationalizations and positive earnings, I don’t think it
will be enough to change sentiment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  