-- 
Norilsk Nickel Offers to Acquire 15% Stake Held by Rusal for $8.75 Billion

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-08-19T16:06:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/norilsk-nickel-offers-to-buy-the-15-stake-held-by-rusal-for-8-75-billion.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel offered to
buy back a 15 percent stake held by United Co. Rusal for $8.75
billion as billionaires  Vladimir Potanin  and Oleg Deripaska
battle for control of the world’s largest nickel producer.  The offer to 25 percent-shareholder Rusal amounts to $306 a
share, a 20 percent premium to the six-month average, Moscow-
based Norilsk said in a statement posted today on its website.  Deripaska is chief executive officer of Rusal, the largest
aluminum producer, while Potanin’s Interros Holding controls
about 30 percent of Norilsk. Rusal has rejected three offers
since October 2010 to sell out of Norilsk. The last approach of
$12.8 billion for a 20 percent stake was rebuffed March 4, even
as billionaire Rusal investors  Mikhail Prokhorov  and  Viktor Vekselberg  backed a sale.  “This proposal is a no-go offer, made in a way that Rusal
will most likely to snub it,” said George Buzhenitsa, a Moscow-
based analyst at Deutsche Bank. “Rusal refused to sell the
larger stake at $335 per share in March. Why should it accept an
offer for only 15 percent at $306 per share?”  Rusal regards its Norilsk holding as a “strategic
investment,” the Moscow-based company said in an e-mailed
statement. “But, being a public company, we discuss all offers
in accordance with Rusal’s corporate procedures,” it said.  Bank Loans  Norilsk shares fell 0.3 percent to 6,486 rubles at the 6:50
p.m. close in Moscow. Rusal’s Russian depositary receipts fell
0.5 percent to 307.97 rubles, paring a slump of as much as 3.6
percent.  Fitch Ratings today cut Norilsk one level to BB+, one step
below investment grade, because of the dispute between Rusal and
Interros and a delay in posting its 2010 financial results.
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moodys Investors Service said this month
they are reviewing Norilsk for a possible downgrade.  The offer to Rusal is valid until Sept. 5, provided it’s
approved by Norilsk’s board on Aug. 24, and will be paid for by
a mix of the company’s own funds and loans, the nickel producer
said.  Norilsk may borrow $4.25 billion from banks to fund the
buyback, Interfax reported, citing a person it didn’t identify.
Maria Uvarova, spokeswoman for Norilsk, declined to comment.  Should Rusal snub the bid, Norilsk will make the offer to
the rest of its shareholders on the same terms, board member
Larisa Zelkova said in an Aug. 15 interview. An acceptance by
Rusal would mean no general offer, she said.  Norilsk’s Uvarova said she couldn’t comment on plans to
make the offer to other shareholders.  Potanin’s Stake  Norilsk and Rusal may be able to sign a shareholders’
agreement regarding the 10 percent stake Rusal would be left
with following a buyback, the nickel producer said in its
statement today.  Norilsk may cancel shares it buys back under the offer, 
Chairman Andrey Bugrov said in an interview on Aug. 12.  Russian rules allow a shareholder to skip making a
mandatory offer for a company, normally triggered when a stake
reaches 30 percent, if the threshold is breached because of a
share cancellation, Artur Rokhlin, a partner at Moscow law firm
UST, said at the time.  Regulations also permit a shareholder to sidestep the need
for approval from the Federal Antimonopoly Service until their 
holding increases to as much as 50 percent, Rokhlin said.  Should Rusal reject the latest offer, Potanin’s Interros
will likely sell a portion of its holding in Norilsk during the
buyback to benefit from the premium, said Buzhenitsa at Deutsche
Bank.  Potanin would be in a position to then build his stake in
Norilsk at a lower price following the buyback and share
cancellation by purchasing stock in the market, Buzhenitsa said.  Anton Muravyev, a spokesman for Interros, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  