-- 
NRC Staff Directed to Set Priorities for Japan Safety Proposals

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-08-19T16:03:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/nrc-staff-directed-to-set-priorities-for-japan-safety-proposals.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission directed its staff to choose which task-force safety
proposals should be adopted in the near term in response to the
 Japan  crisis, resolving a dispute over how to proceed.  Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  had pressed the commission to act
within 90 days on each of 12 recommendations the task force
offered in a July report. Several commissioners led by William Ostendorff urged more time to review the proposals.  “The plan we’ve established will require a dedicated
effort by our staff and stakeholders, and will require a
continued commitment by the commission to see that these
recommendations are promptly addressed,” Jaczko said today in a
statement.  The NRC panel was charged with developing safety steps
after an earthquake and tsunami in March crippled Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, the worst nuclear accident
since Chernobyl in 1986. A majority of the five-member
commission balked at Jaczko’s plan and Ostendorff said on July
28 he had “significant reservations” about swift action,
echoing the positions of Commissioners William Magwood and
Kristine Svinicki.  Under the plan today, the NRC staff has until Sept. 9 to
outline which recommendations the commission should implement
“without unnecessary delay,” according to the statement.  By Oct. 3, NRC officials must “lay out all agency actions
to be taken in responding to lessons learned from the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi accident,” and set priorities for acting on 11 of the
recommendations.  The staff has 18 months to consider the  task force ’s main
recommendation that the NRC’s overall regulatory approach be
revised, according to the statement.  The task force also recommended requiring plant owners to
have at least eight hours of backup power at reactors, provide
emergency systems to spray water into pools holding spent fuel
and install more reliable venting for reactors similar to those
that failed in Japan in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  