-- 
Obama, Allies Call on Assad to Leave

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-19T00:18:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/obama-allies-call-on-assad-to-leave-as-pressure-builds-on-syria.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  in
concert with European allies called on Syria President Bashar al-Assad to step down, adding momentum for United Nations action
to penalize the regime for its deadly crackdown on protests.  In a coordinated move with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel, Obama issued a statement yesterday saying the
Syrian people deserve to chart their own future.  The citizens of Syria “have braved ferocious brutality at
the hands of their government,” Obama said. “For the sake of
the Syrian people, the time has come for President Assad to step
aside.”  Obama’s declaration, his first explicit call for Assad to
leave power, comes more than five months after reports began
coming out of  Syria  of reprisals against anti-government
protesters. Human rights activists in the country estimate more
than 2,400 Syrians have been killed.  Obama also signed an executive order freezing any Syrian
government assets in the U.S. and banning import to the U.S. of
petroleum products of Syrian origin. The order denies Syria
access to the U.S. financial system and prohibits people in the
U.S. from doing business with Syria. The European Union also is
moving to broaden its sanctions on Assad’s regime.  UN Resolution  U.S. and Western powers in the Security Council will
introduce a draft resolution in the coming days that includes
measures to increase pressure on the government, U.K. Deputy
Ambassador Philip Parham said, without giving specifics. Miguel
Berger,  Germany ’s deputy ambassador, said it will include
sanctions.  A UN team will go to Syria this weekend on a four-day
mission to assess the humanitarian situation, emergency relief
coordinator Valerie Amos told reporters. She said the government
has pledged “full access” for the team.  Marc Ginsberg, a former U.S. ambassador to  Morocco , was
among experts on the region who said the U.S. action will do
little by itself to weaken Assad. Analysts and administration
officials said pressure will ramp up if coordinated sanctions
cut off enough Syrian oil exports to affect regime finances or
if other nations empower opponents inside Syria. About 90
percent of Syria’s oil exports go to Europe, according to the
U.S.  Assad has “basically thumbed his nose at us because what
the U.S. says or does is less important than what importers of
Syrian oil do, what the Turkish government does and whether
Assad has lost control of Damascus and Aleppo, which he has
not,” Ginsberg, who is president of Layalina Television and
senior vice president at APCO Worldwide in  Washington , said.  Experience in  Libya   Ginsberg, who has criticized Obama as moving too slowly
against Syria, said the administration was “spooked” that
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has held on to power long after
Obama’s call for him to go and the NATO military action there.  Administration officials said the U.S. wanted to make sure
that further steps against Assad were coordinated with other
nations. “In the whole of this process, the president has been
committed to working with nations around the world to present a
united front and isolate the Assad regime,” White House
spokesman  Josh Earnest  said.  Anthony Cordesman, a military analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies policy group in Washington,
said Obama’s choices since the violence began have been limited
by “how complicated and uncertain” the situation is in Syria,
Russia and  China ’s resistance to sanctions and how  Iran  or
terrorists could react.  End Game  “It’s all very easy to say, ‘Why didn’t the president make
strong, strident statements early on?’” Cordesman said. “The
question is to what end?”  A direct intervention by the U.S. likely would have forced
Arab and Muslim states to support Assad, he said. “You would
see it be popular in the  United States  and  Israel , but it would
not have achieved any meaningful strategic effect.”  Even now, Cordesman said, Assad “doesn’t care what people
around him or countries around him think,” and he could hold on
to power for another year or more.  “We have absolutely no idea of what will happen if Assad
goes,” he said.  In his statement, Obama said, “It is time for the Syrian
people to determine their own destiny, and we will continue to
stand firmly on their side.”  Still, he said, the U.S. “cannot and will not impose this
transition” for the Syrian people, who have expressed “their
strong desire that there not be foreign intervention in their
movement.”  Turning Point  Assad’s attacks on protesters during Ramadan served as a
turning point in pulling together an international coalition,
said another administration official at the briefing.  As violence in Syria continued, Obama discussed a
coordinated response with Sarkozy and Merkel on Aug. 5, Turkish
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Aug. 11 and Cameron on
Aug. 13, the official said.  Pressure has been mounting this month for bolder steps
against Assad after  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait ,  Bahrain  and  Tunisia 
withdrew their ambassadors from Damascus. Regional criticism has
increasingly isolated Assad, leaving Iran as his only unwavering
ally in the region.  Faced with the most serious threat to his family’s 40-year
rule, Assad has deployed tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and
helicopters to crush the uprising that began after revolts
ousted the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and sparked a conflict
in Libya.  Human Rights  Syria’s government has engaged in a “pattern of human
rights violations that constitutes widespread or systematic
attacks against the civilian population, which may amount to
crimes against humanity,” a fact-finding mission report for the
Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council said yesterday.  The Human Rights Council should urge the  Security Council 
to consider referring the situation in Syria to the
International Criminal Court, the report said.  The UN report may add to a European-led push to overcome
Russian and Chinese resistance to firmer UN action against
Assad.  Patrick Seale, a biographer of Bashar’s late father, former
President Hafez al-Assad, said the Syrian leader will be
difficult to topple as long as the army and security forces
remain loyal.  “His main asset is that no foreign country has any
appetite for a military intervention, and the Russians and the
Chinese will certainly veto any attempt to condemn him at the UN
Security Council,” Seale said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  