-- 
Obama Must Get Bold, Tell Republicans ‘It’s On’: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-08-19T00:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/obama-must-get-bold-tell-republicans-it-s-on-jonathan-alter.html
As he golfs and bikes on  Martha’s
Vineyard , President  Barack Obama  will have plenty of time to
think about how to get his presidency back on track.  Some aides are calling the major speech he plans to deliver
after Labor Day a “reset” of his administration. That may
understate its political importance.  Obama prides himself on being a clutch player. Although the
election is still 15 months away, the speech is like a critical
third-and-long in football. Victory doesn’t depend on
conversion, but it sure would help. If fall brings no better
news than summer, the president could enter 2012 trailing Texas
Governor  Rick Perry , a guy who thinks Social Security is a
“ Ponzi scheme ” and that the chairman of the  Federal Reserve  is a
traitor.  Obama must work on two tracks -- one idealistic, the other
practical. The moment calls for him to offer a big vision for
how to fix the economy, even if it doesn’t have a prayer of
passage. Then he should unveil smaller actions that could win
congressional approval, plus a few imaginative executive orders
that might let him move the needle on employment unilaterally.  The big revelation this week about the president’s strategy
is that he will be specific about where he thinks the new
special congressional committee should find the additional $1.5
trillion in deficit reduction called for in the debt-ceiling
deal. I’m told by the White House that contrary to House Speaker
 John Boehner ’s claims, Obama did send Boehner a short paper that
detailed trillions in savings during their unsuccessful “grand
bargain” negotiations in July, but it was never released
publicly. This plan will be.  ‘Jobs First’ Agenda  Most significantly, it will specify savings beyond the $1.5
trillion and use those extra billions for job creation. That
would mean the president would “pay for” every dime of new
stimulus. He won’t label it stimulus, of course. Stimulus has
been stigmatized. If he’s smart he’ll call it a Jobs First
agenda, or something else that shows he’s in touch with the
average household.  At least the president is on task. After headlines about a
pivot to jobs in December 2009, September 2010, January 2011,
May 2011 and July 2011, he’s finally shifting the conversation
to what Americans truly care about.  That is, if no crisis intervenes. Obama’s failure to drive
home a jobs agenda is partly his fault (he thought until June
that the economy was improving) and partly the consequence of
the country’s attention being drawn to other stories, such as
the Gulf oil spill and the Arab Spring.  This week’s bus tour across three Midwestern states seemed
to refresh the president and improve his presentation. He began
talking about “rebuilding America” instead of his old
professorial references to an “infrastructure bank,” which is
a good idea but tone deaf politically considering that many
voters don’t really know what infrastructure means and despise
banks.  Truman-Style Campaign  More important, Obama began sticking it to Congress, laying
the groundwork for a 1948 Harry Truman-style campaign. Rebooting
his presidency will require a bold plan that says to an
obstructionist opposition: “It’s on, guys!”  The conventional wisdom in  Washington  is that nothing will
pass because Republicans are committed above all else to
depriving the president of any victories. They’ve flip-flopped
on everything from the creation of a debt commission to
comprehensive immigration reform to extending the payroll-tax
holiday (tax cuts, for crying out loud!) just to stick it to
him.  But polls that show Tea Party Republicans are currently
 less popular  than atheists or Muslims could change their
political calculation. Swaggering Republican honchos may find
that they need to be seen as getting a few things done, even if
it means the president gets a little credit, too.  Big Ideas  The specifics of Obama’s speech are secret, and many
haven’t been worked out. But I hear that it will contain more
than simple pleas to Congress to pass the economic agenda the
president began offering this summer, which includes extending
the payroll-tax holiday, approving public-works spending,
enacting a patent bill, ratifying trade deals and extending
 unemployment insurance .  Don’t be surprised to see him also propose a major tax
credit for hiring new workers, construction money for schools,
an ambitious youth employment program (if he doesn’t hold a high
percentage of the youth vote, he loses the election) and a few
of the other job-creation ideas he’s been demanding his Cabinet
and staff cook up. Some of these ideas can be implemented
without Congress, like providing debt relief for strapped
homeowners.  I’m hoping he’ll also explore creative ideas like one
offered by Cliff Sloan, a veteran of the Clinton White House.
Under Sloan’s plan, the president would sign an executive order
requiring that all new (or renewed) contracts with the federal
government contain a  job-creation  clause requiring that in
exchange for the privilege of doing business with  Uncle Sam ,
corporations (which have plenty of cash on hand) must agree to a
net increase in payroll of at least one percent for the duration
of the contract. With thousands of new contracts signed every
week, this would have an immediate effect even if compliance was
spotty.  One good speech -- or a hundred -- will not solve the jobs
crisis. But boldly confronting the Republicans with popular
ideas that are hard to vote against will at least tell the
country what Obama stands for, and it may even have the
practical effect of putting some Americans back to work.  ( Jonathan Alter , a Bloomberg View columnist, is the author
of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 