-- 
Oil-Lease Minimum Price Doubled by U.S. in Gulf Plan

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-08-19T19:51:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/oil-lease-minimum-price-doubled-in-gulf-under-u-s-plan-1-.html
(Corrects spelling of Baton Rouge in fifth paragraph.)  The U.S. will more than double the
minimum bid on oil leases in the western Gulf of Mexico to take
advantage of pent-up demand as the administration seeks to
reduce the federal  budget deficit .  The Obama administration will offer the leases on Dec. 14,
in the first auction of Gulf leases since the  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill
last year, the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement  said today in a statement.  “Having a firm date now gives a greater assurance that the
sale will indeed take place,” Randall Luthi, president of the
National Ocean Industries Association in Washington, said in an
e-mail. “This sale marks a key step toward restoring American
jobs.”  The Interior Department  proposes to increase the minimum
bid to $100 per acre from $37.50 for blocks in waters deeper
than 1,312 feet (400 meters). Leases with bids less than $100
had little or no exploration or development, the agency said,
citing a review of 15 years of auction results.  “It’s an increase, but I don’t think it will discourage
exploration,” Don Briggs, president of the Louisiana Oil and
Gas Association in  Baton Rouge , said in an interview. “This is
another way to gather additional revenues to cover some of the
increased costs they have, all the new inspectors and all the
new costs they created.”  Added Inspections  The agency introduced requirements for more inspections and
equipment for blowout prevention and spill containment, and
added staff to oversee the industry, after the explosion of the
Deepwater Horizon rig leased by BP in April 2010 killed 11
people and spewed crude for 87 days.  The U.S. will seek bidders for all available unleased areas
in the Western Gulf off the Texas coast, in depths from 16 feet
to more than 10,975 feet. Oil companies may be able to produce
222 million to 423 million barrels of oil from reservoirs in the
area, according to the statement.  BP, based in London, is the top leaseholder in the Gulf,
followed by  San Ramon , California-based  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Irving,
Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  of The
Hague.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  