-- 
Tom Colicchio, Julianne Moore Boost Hunger Program in Hamptons

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-08-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/tom-colicchio-julianne-moore-boost-united-way-s-hunger-fight-in-hamptons.html
For today’s  United Way of New York
City  fundraiser in Sagaponack, New York, chef  Tom Colicchio 
called on Julianne Moore and Vanity Fair editor Graydon Carter
to give him a hand with the hosting.  The benefit -- titled “What’s on the Table?” -- is tied
to a United Way initiative to use social media in teaching the
public about nutrition and fighting hunger. The nonprofit also
wants to increase funding and technical assistance for the food
banks it supports, which serve New York’s hungry.  “The visibility I have for doing ‘Top Chef’ helps me ...
bring people into the tent,” Colicchio said by phone. “And
this is a time when people need food more than ever.”  Colicchio, the lead judge on the Bravo network program, is
chef and owner of the Craft and Colicchio & Sons restaurants in
 New York . He and his wife, filmmaker  Lori Silverbush , also put
together the event’s host committee, which includes actor Ed Burns and his wife, model Christy Turlington; hedge-fund manager
Scott Bommer, president of SAB Capital Management LP; and Paul Kanavos, founder and chairman of luxury resort operator Flag
Luxury Properties LLC, and a friend of Colicchio’s.  The more than 200 guests will get to taste small plates
featuring locally produced meats and vegetables prepared by
Colicchio’s chefs.  ‘Hunger in America’  Guests also will view a clip from Silverbush’s documentary
 “Hungry in America,”  which is currently in post-production.
The film, financed by  Participant Media  (“Waiting for
Superman”), is scheduled for release in 2013.  United Way of  New York City  has seen a 30 percent increase
in those seeking food at the more than 500 pantries and soup
kitchens it supports in the area.  “A larger percentage of these people are working
families,” Kevin Taylor, the nonprofit’s senior vice president
for institutional advancement, said by phone. They’re “having
to decide whether to pay the rent or put food on the table.”  (“What’s on the Table?: An Event to Combat Hunger” for
the United Way of New York City is today from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m.
at a private residence in Sagaponack, New York. Tickets are
$250. Information:  mmatheson@uwnyc.org .)  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 