-- 
London Office Developers Decline Following BofA Merrill Lynch Downgrade

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-08-19T15:43:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/london-office-developers-drop-after-bofa-merrill-lynch-downgrade.html
Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) ,  Great
Portland Estates Plc (GPOR)  and  Derwent London Plc (DLN)  fell in London
trading after BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research downgraded each
of the U.K. property developers.  Land Securities, the country’s largest real estate
investment trust by market value, dropped 3.9 percent, Great
Portland declined 2.9 percent and Derwent lost 2.5 percent.  “It may be appropriate for the sector to trade at a
premium in anticipation of growth,” a team at BofA Merrill
Lynch led by Bernd Stahli wrote in a note to investors today.
“However, in the current economic environment, where growth is
absent, we believe a premium is hard to justify.”  In June, commercial real-estate values in the U.K. rose 0.1
percent from the previous month, the smallest gain since the
market started recovering from a slump two years ago, Investment
Property Databank Ltd. said Aug. 12. The slowdown may prompt
Great Portland to delay three  London  developments, the BofA
Merrill Lynch analysts said.  The projects are at Fetter Lane, 100 Bishopsgate and
Blackfriars Road. Charlotte Whitley, a spokeswoman for Great
Portland, declined to comment.  The FTSE 350 Real Estate Investment Trust Index of 11
stocks including the three developers was down 1.87 percent at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The FTSE 100 Index fell 1.01
percent, extending yesterday’s 4.5 percent decline, the biggest
since March 2009.  Dissipating Market  Growth in the London office market appears to be
dissipating and “retail is unlikely to drive much performance
going forward,” according to the BofA Merrill Lynch report.  It would “probably be prudent” to make projects such as
London-based Land Securities’ 37-story tower at 20 Fenchurch
Street, known as the Walkie Talkie, conditional on the company
having tenants in place, Stahli and his team said.  The tower, scheduled to be completed in 2014, is a so-
called speculative build, meaning no one has yet agreed to lease
space in it.  While Derwent’s balance sheet is solid and management has a
strong track record, the downgrade is warranted as capital
growth in London offices is expected to stall and rental growth
to decline, the BofA Merrill Lynch team said.  The firm downgraded its rating for Land Securities to
“neutral” from “buy” and changed its ratings for Great
Portland and Derwent to “underperform” from “neutral.”  Derwent spokeswoman Bridget Walker and Lesley Van Dijk, a
spokeswoman for Land Securities, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 