-- 
Hong Kong Tells Investors to ‘Stay Calm’ as Equity Markets Sink

-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-08-19T01:38:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/hong-kong-tells-investors-to-stay-calm-as-equity-markets-sink.html
Hong Kong financial official K.C. Chan told investors to “stay calm” as equity markets slump on
concern that global growth is faltering and  Europe ’s debt crisis
is out of control.  “I ask investors to stay calm, look at the numbers, and
look at exactly how it will affect their own economy, and not to
be spooked by the market that easily,” Chan, the secretary for
financial services and the Treasury, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Hong Kong today.  Declines in equity markets are crushing consumer and
business confidence, worsening the outlook for a global economy
already hampered by the debt burdens of developed economies.
Asian stocks extended today the rout in the U.S. and Europe
yesterday, with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average falling 2.3 percent
as of 10:35 a.m. in  Tokyo .  In  Seoul , central bank official Min Sung Kee said that
investors seem “too nervous” and are reacting “more than what
I expected.” In a phone interview, Min, director general of the
financial markets department, said that officials are “watching
the markets 24 hours a day and we need to monitor the U.S.
market more closely tonight.”  Yields on 10-year Treasuries hit the lowest level in a
decade yesterday as investors sought a refuge amid speculation
that European banks may lack sufficient capital.  The  U.S. economy  may expand less than previously forecast
in 2011 and 2012 because of potential “political paralysis” and
fiscal tightening, Citigroup Inc. said. Citigroup cut its 2011
growth forecast to 1.6 percent from 1.7 percent and lowered a
2012 estimate to 2.1 percent from 2.7 percent, according to a
report dated yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net  