-- 
Hong Kong’s Chan Hopes for Higher 2012 China Corporate Dim Sum Sale Target

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-08-19T04:35:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/hong-kong-s-chan-hopes-for-higher-2012-china-dim-sum-target.html
Hong Kong hopes  China  will raise the
50 billion yuan ($7.8 billion) target for yuan-denominated bond
sales by mainland companies next year and sees no signs of a
crackdown on issuance, the city’s treasury secretary said.  While Chinese regulators will “always have some sort of
target in mind” for how much companies can borrow in the city,
the so-called dim sum debt market should sustain its pace of
expansion, K. C. Chan, secretary for financial services and the
treasury, said in an interview in Hong Kong today. Initiatives
announced this week by China’s Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  will
support the market, Chan said.  “We have a new policy which allows non-financial companies
to access our  bond market ,” said Chan. “It starts with 50
billion yuan, financial and non-financial, but we always knew it
would start with this number. Next year, that number should
continue, and hopefully a higher number. Definitely we see this
as a very positive sign.”  Credit Agricole CIB wrote in a report this month that China
is likely to restrict remittances of yuan raised beyond its
borders to fight “hot money inflows” and this may lead to
reduced issuance of dim sum debt. The government limits capital
inflows to curb gains in the yuan, which rose 3.2 percent
against the dollar this year.  The People’s Bank of China suspended applications from
domestic companies to borrow yuan overseas for purposes other
than trade financing in mid-July, the Shanghai Securities News
reported on Aug. 2. The  Hong Kong  Monetary Authority said the
report was “incorrect” as mainland companies have never been
allowed to get direct yuan funding from banks outside China
except for trade-related projects.  More Transparent  The funds raised in dim sum bond issues need approval when
companies want to repatriate them, “so you know where the money
goes, and there’s no question about it,” Chan said. The sales
are absorbing yuan that is held offshore and displacing foreign-
currency debt issuance, he said.  Chinese regulators will likely be careful in allowing
companies to issue yuan bonds in Hong Kong, particularly in
property and heavy manufacturing, said Ju Wang, a fixed-income
strategist for Asian emerging markets at  Barclays Capital .  “What’s the point of tightening onshore and letting these
guys borrow cheap offshore?,” said Singapore-based Wang.
“Otherwise their monetary policy won’t work.”  Inflation in the mainland accelerated to 6.5 percent last
month, the most since June 2008. The People’s Bank of China has
increased  interest rates  five times since September and raised
major lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios to a record 21.5
percent, from 17 percent.  Sales Slow  Vice Premier Li outlined the target for Chinese company
bond sales during a visit to Hong Kong this week and said China
will support the use of yuan for foreign direct investment in
the nation, a reference to new regulations.  Sales of dim sum bonds dropped to a four-month low of 9.4
billion yuan ($1.5 billion) in July as Moody’s Investors Service
warned of governance concerns at Chinese companies and  Europe ’s
debt crisis cooled demand for emerging-market assets. Issuance
this year has swelled to 110 billion yuan from 36 billion yuan
last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I expect the growth rate will continue, continuing to be
very good,” Chan said. “Once the FDI rules are clear, it’s
easier for the various ministries in the mainland to approve the
projects. Because they understand what are the procedures and
what are the control measures.”  The average yield on dim sum bonds was at 3.14 percent
yesterday and reached a record 3.21 percent on Aug. 9, according
to the HSBC Offshore Renminbi Bond Index. That’s up from 1.96
percent at the end of March.  ‘Stay Calm’  An exchange-traded fund for Chinese investors to invest in
Hong Kong may be ready to start in a few months, Chan said.
Volatility in the stock markets will last for some time given
investors’ concern about the  U.S. economy  and the Europe
sovereign debt crisis, he said.  “I ask investors to stay calm, look at the numbers, and
look at exactly how it will affect their own economy, and not to
be spooked by the market that easily,” Chan said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net 
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 