-- 
Top-Rated States' Yields Steady as Potential Downgrades Loom: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-08-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/top-rated-states-yields-steady-as-potential-downgrades-loom-muni-credit.html
Top-graded states shrugged off the
U.S. downgrade and a threat from rating companies to lower their
credit scores as investors continued buying tax-exempt bonds.  Standard & Poor’s Aug. 5 cut the U.S. to AA+ as it believes
 Washington  hasn’t done enough to curb spending or raise revenue
to tackle record budget deficits. Yesterday the company said it
may lower municipal credits after a bipartisan panel’s proposals
in November to reduce expenditures. Moody’s Investors Service on
July 19 put five AAA states on its watchlist for potential
rating cuts because of dependency on federal funding.  Since then, demand for tax-exempt debt and Treasuries has
soared as investors opt for safer assets amid market turmoil.
Ten-year Treasury yields yesterday fell as low as 1.97 percent
as rates on similar-maturity Canadian and British debt also
reached all-time lows. Yields on 10-year U.S. top-rated tax-
exempt bonds fell to 2.2 percent yesterday, the lowest since
Sept. 6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We didn’t see much negative reaction to the downgrade of
the U.S. credit, so there wasn’t much whiplash from that event -
- which was a positive,”  said Jason Hannon, a trader at Arbor
Research & Trading Inc. in  New York , referring to Moody’s
warning about the five states. “Furthermore, buyers of munis
still saw the strengths of these state credits.”  Yields on top-rated 10-year tax-exempt bonds have fallen by
22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, since Aug. 5. The
drop for 10-year Treasuries was 50 basis points.  No Impact  Moody’s is reviewing Maryland,  New Mexico ,  South Carolina ,
 Tennessee  and Virginia to determine how much risk federal
spending cutbacks may present and whether to remove their AAA
ratings. Trading of their long-term tax-exempt debt hasn’t
altered significantly, said Eric Zurla, a trader at Butler
Larsen Pierce & Co. Inc. in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  “I haven’t seen much ramifications from that, Zurla said.
”The market has absorbed it because there’s not a lot of supply
in any of those states. I don’t see much sell off in those names
at all. With the way the overall market has performed over the
last few weeks and rates keep pushing lower, these bonds are
still doing pretty well.’’  A  Maryland  general-obligation bond issued in July 2010 and
maturing August 2021 changed hands yesterday, the most recent
trade, with an average yield of 2.23 percent, which is 4 basis
points above an index of top-rated 10-year tax-exempt debt,
Bloomberg data show. That compares with a trade on July 11,
before Moody’s placed the state on review, when the bonds
yielded 2.62 percent, 11 basis points below the index.  Credit Default Swaps  The cost of protecting $10 million of the state’s debt
decreased to $81,700 a year on Aug. 18, after reaching $84.86 on
Aug. 3, according to credit-default prices from CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. The year’s high was on Jan. 3 when the
cost was $106.01.  A  Virginia  general-obligation bond issued in November 2008
and maturing in June 2026 last traded Aug.3 to yield 3.16
percent, 8 basis points below an index of top-rated 15-year tax-
exempt securities. That’s compared with 19 basis points below
the index on June 3.  The difference between top-ranked states and those with AA+
ratings is “insignificant” because “buyers are telling the
market and issuers that these high-quality states have full
reception,” said Chip Peebles, head of retail trading at Morgan
Keegan Inc. in  Memphis , Tennessee.  State debt is attractive because governors must match
revenue with spending every year, unlike the federal government,
which can rely on Treasury bonds to make up the difference, he
said.  Balance the Budget  “Unlike the U.S. government, states are constitutionally
required to balance their budgets,” Peebles said. “So if they
receive less funding from the federal government, then they will
have to cut elsewhere to balance their budgets. The federal
government doesn’t have that requirement for now, so states will
be forced to live smaller than they currently are, because of
their constitutional constraints.”  Treasury yields have fallen faster than those for
municipals. Tax-exempt yields represented about 106 percent of
Treasuries, yesterday compared with an average of 91.5 percent
in 2011, Bloomberg data show. Municipals and Treasuries became
more expensive as investors dropped stocks after a U.S. credit-
rating downgrade and economic data showing a slowing recovery.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  KING COUNTY,  WASHINGTON , which encompasses  Seattle , will
sell $403 million of revenue bonds as soon as next week to help
refund debt and finance improvements to the sewer system. The
bonds are rated AA+, S&P’s second-highest grade. JPMorgan Chase
& Co. will lead a syndicate of banks on the deal. (Added Aug.
19)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  