-- 
Motorola Mobility, Ranbaxy, Kellogg: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-19T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/motorola-mobility-ranbaxy-icahn-wiley-intellectual-property.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., the
mobile-phone maker that agreed to be bought this week for $12.5
billion by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , cannot solicit other offers, according
to terms of the merger agreement published yesterday.  All employees and directors of the company as well as
outside advisers and legal counsel had to stop any solicitation
of other proposals as of Aug. 15, the document states. Still,
Motorola’s board has a fiduciary duty to consider any
unsolicited superior proposal it may receive, according to the
agreement.  Google, the world’s largest maker of smartphone software,
is buying Motorola Mobility to gain mobile patents and expanding
in the hardware business. Both boards have approved the
takeover, which provides Motorola Mobility shareholders a 63
percent premium over the stock’s closing price on the trading
day preceding the offer.  Google has agreed to pay Motorola Mobility $2.5 billion if
the deal falls through, the contract states. Motorola Mobility
would pay $375 million if it decided not to sell to Google,
according to the agreement.  Lipitor Generic Rights May Be Sold If FDA Approval Delayed  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  may sell rights to make a generic
version of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor, the world’s best-selling
medicine, should it fail to win timely U.S. approval for the
cholesterol pill, Credit Suisse AG said.  A legal settlement with Pfizer gave Ranbaxy six months’
exclusivity to market generic Lipitor in the U.S. Delays in Food
and Drug Administration approval may prevent the Indian company
from selling its copies as planned from Nov. 30, Credit Suisse
equity analysts Edward J. Kelly and Rajat Suri said Aug. 17.  Lipitor is the highest-selling drug of all time, generating
$10.7 billion last year. An FDA investigation into quality
standards at two Ranbaxy manufacturing plants and a federal
investigation into its testing practices have delayed approval
of the drug copy. Federal prosecutors are negotiating a dispute
settlement that may cost Ranbaxy more than $1 billion, Fortune
Magazine reported in May.  “We believe the most likely outcome will involve Ranbaxy
paying a hefty fine to the FDA, which would subsequently clear
the path for Lipitor approval,” Kelly and Suri said in a
report. “The company and most industry experts remain confident
a resolution will be reached in time for Ranbaxy to launch on
Nov. 30.”  Ranbaxy said it can’t comment “at this stage” in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Ranbaxy, based in Gurgaon near New Delhi, is in discussions
with the FDA to get approval by November and the “negotiations
are progressing well,” Managing Director Arun Sawhney said in
an Aug. 5 conference call.  “Delays in the resolution of the matter will weigh on
sentiment as the date for a generic Lipitor launch approaches,”
Vihari Purushothaman and Dhruva Sabharwal of Tata Securities
Ltd. in Mumbai, wrote in an Aug. 5 report.  Ranbaxy’s stock has dropped 21 percent this year, compared
with a 20 percent decline in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  Generic Lipitor would be a key growth driver for Ranbaxy,
Deepak Malik and Ashish Thavkar of Emkay Global Financial
Services Ltd. in Mumbai wrote in an Aug. 6 report. The copy may
contribute $400 million to $500 million in revenue, they wrote.  “However, this gain will largely be off-set by the penalty
imposed on Ranbaxy by the U.S. FDA,” Malik and Thavkar said.  If the Nov. 30 deadline isn’t met, Ranbaxy may postpone the
release of its copycat Lipitor, the Credit Suisse report said.
This would also delay the timeline for other generic
manufacturers wanting to sell their own copies, as Ranbaxy’s
180-day exclusivity period does not start until it begins
commercial marketing, it said.  This would benefit Parsippany, New Jersey-based  Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , which negotiated with Pfizer to begin
selling a so-called authorized generic by Nov. 30.  Alternatively, Ranbaxy may waive exclusivity in exchange
for payment from a rival generic-drug maker, Credit Suisse said.  “If Ranbaxy anticipates a lengthy delay, it may allow
other generic manufacturers to accelerate their launches for a
one-time payment or a revenue sharing agreement,” Kelly and
Suri said.  Ranbaxy, 64 percent owned by Tokyo-based Daiichi Sankyo
Co., received a one-time payment from Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
last year for relinquishing its 180-day exclusivity on the
Flomax prostate treatment under similar circumstances, the
analysts wrote.  “Daiichi Sankyo is not in a position to speculate or
comment whether Ranbaxy will get approval for its Lipitor
generic,” Masaya Tamae, a spokesman at the Tokyo-based Daiichi
Sankyo said yesterday by telephone.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Icahn Settles Tropicana Las Vegas Trademark Suit Over Name  Carl Icahn and the Tropicana Las Vegas hotel and casino
settled a trademark lawsuit over the right to the name
Tropicana, with each allowed to use it depending on the
location.  The accord between the owner of the hotel and several Icahn
companies needs approval by the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Delaware, according to an Aug. 15 filing in that court. The
action arose out of the hotel’s Chapter 11 case.  Icahn, the billionaire investor whose companies include
Tropicana Entertainment Inc., operates the Tropicana Casino &
Resort in Atlantic City,  New Jersey . Under the terms of the
settlement,  Tropicana Las Vegas  will have rights to the name in
Las Vegas within 50 miles of the casino. Icahn will have rights
in New Jersey and other areas.  Tropicana Entertainment LLC, the Las Vegas hotel operator,
filed for Chapter 11 creditor protection in May 2008. Two plans
of reorganization were filed and approved by the bankruptcy
court. Each group filing a plan claimed trademark rights.  Ramada of  Nevada  is listed along with Tropicana Las Vegas
as a defendant in the suit.  The lawsuit is Icahn Agency Services LLC v. Tropicana Las
Vegas Inc., 10-ap-52489, and the bankruptcy case is In re:
Tropicana Entertainment LLC, 08-10856, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Tavern on the Green Rights Get $1.3 Million Opening Bid  A potential buyer agreed to start the bidding for limited
rights to the name Tavern on the Green at $1.3 million in an
auction in  Manhattan  bankruptcy court.  Tavern International LLC will be the opening bidder, known
as the stalking horse, at the auction,  Streambank LLC , the firm
hired to find a buyer, said yesterday in a statement  Tavern on the Green LP filed for bankruptcy protection in
September 2009 after losing its lease to operate the namesake
restaurant in  New York ’s Central Park.  The company lost a fight with  New York City  for rights to
the trademark. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in April
approved a settlement between the city and the Chapter 7 trustee
for the company, Jil Mazer-Marino.  The terms of that accord allowed the trustee to sell the
name for restaurants outside New York, New Jersey,  Connecticut 
and part of  Pennsylvania  and for food products. Proceeds are to
go to creditors.  A hearing to approve bidding procedures will be Aug. 31,
according to a court filing. If the rights are sold to another
company, the stalking-horse bidder is to receive a breakup fee
of $65,000, the filing states.  The Chapter 7 case is Tavern on the Green LP, 09-15450,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Kellogg Told Its Toucan Trademark Isn’t Infringed by Non-Profit  Kellogg Co. (K) , maker of Cocoa Puffs, Froot Loops and Rice
Krispies cereals, has told a non-governmental group involved
with the protection of the Guatemalan biosphere to quit using a
toucan as a logo.  The Battle Creek, Michigan-based cereal company uses an
image of the Toucan Sam character with his multicolor beak on
its boxes of rainbow-hued  Froot Loops . The  Maya Archeology
Initiative ’s  toucan is shown in front of a Mayan pyramid  on t-
shirts, refrigerator magnets, coffee mugs and baseball hats it
gives as a premium to its donors.  The San Ramon, California-based non-profit said in a
 statement  that it doesn’t infringe the Kellogg trademark.  Sarah
D. Mott , legal counsel for the non-profit, said the two
trademarks don’t look alike and the two entities don’t compete.  “MAI’s trademark is made up of iconic images,” she said.
“Its toucan is based upon a realistic toucan endemic to
Mesoamerica. Kellogg provides sugary cereal and entertainment
through Toucan Sam, his cousins and a make-believe world that
pretends to reflect something real.”  She also said that there is no Mayan imagery associated
with Kellogg’s toucan.  MAI is focused on foster education for Maya children,
protecting antiquities and defending biodiversity in the
Guatemalan rainforest.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  John Wiley Victorious in Appeal Involving First Sale Doctrine  John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A) , a publisher of scientific and
technical books, convinced an appeals court that books produced
abroad aren’t covered by a section of copyright law permitting
sale of non-infringing items.  The case arose from the actions of a student from  Thailand 
who had family members buy foreign editions of John Wiley’s
books and send them to him for resale in the U.S. Supap
Kirtsaeng had argued that because the books were produced
lawfully in foreign countries he couldn’t be accused of
copyright infringement.  According to court papers, the overseas edition of the
Wiley books had thinner paper; different bindings, covers and
jacket designs; fewer internal ink colors, and lower quality
photographs and graphics. Such books are also marked with a
legend designating the countries in which they may be sold.  Kirtsaeng was subsidizing the cost of his education by
selling the books he imported on  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s auction website and
other commercial sites. He consulted Google Inc.’s Google
Answer’s website for advice about whether his actions were
legal, according to the opinion.  Wiley sued Kirtsaeng for copyright infringement in federal
court in Manhattan in September 2008. At trial he argued that
copyright law’s “first sale doctrine” was a defense against
the infringement allegations. The trial court rejected that
defense, and the jury found he had infringed the Wiley
copyrights and ordered him to pay damages of $75,000 for each of
the eight works at issue.  In his appeal Kirtsaeng said the trial court mistakenly
barred the first-sale defense.  In its Aug. 18 opinion, the appeals court said that the
trial court correctly barred Kirtsaeng’s defense. The section of
copyright law he tried to invoke referred to works “lawfully
made” in terms of U.S. copyright law. This section, the appeals
court said, “refers specifically and exclusively to works that
are made in territories in which the Copyright Act is law, and
not to foreign-manufactured works.”  The case is John Wiley & Sons Inc., v. Supap Kirtsaeng, 09-
4896-CV, U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals. The lower court
case is John Wiley & Sons Inc., v. Supap Kirtsaeng, 1:08-cv-
07834-DVP, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  IIPI Names  Mexico ’s Jorge Amigo Castenada Vice Chairman  The  International Intellectual Property Institute  hired
Jorge H. Amigo Castenada, the  Washington  based non-profit
economic development group said in an e-mailed statement.  Amigo, who will serve as the group’s vice chairman,
previously headed the Mexican Institute of Intellectual
Property, an organization he founded in 1994. He was appointed
to that post by then-President  Ernesto Zedillo , with the mission
of expanding that nation’s patent and trademark authority.  He headed the Mexican delegation for the investment chapter
of the North American Free Trade Agreement. He was Mexico’s
chief coordinator for the 2010 Anticounterfeiting Trade
Agreement.  A non-lawyer, Amigo has worked in banking and private
industries as well as holding a variety of posts within Mexico’s
Ministry of Commerce.  He has an undergraduate degree in economics from Anajuac
University and a master’s degree in economics from the
University of the Americas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 