-- 
OTP Bank Second-Quarter Profit Up 36%, Risk Costs to Rise

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-08-19T09:39:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/otp-bank-second-quarter-profit-up-36-risk-costs-to-rise-1-.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, said profit growth is likely to suffer from the
deteriorating global economic environment and provisions against
risks may rise.  “The slowdown in the global economic backdrop means that
the outlook for OTP’s short- and medium-term profitability
hasn’t improved,” Laszlo Bencsik, deputy chief executive
officer, said at a media conference in Budapest. The weakening
of the Hungarian forint against the Swiss franc will boost risk-
related expenses for OTP’s Hungarian business, he said.  OTP maintained its guidance for risk costs in 2011 at below
last year’s level in 2011 even after “the recent increase in
uncertainties,” Bencsik said.  Second-quarter net income surged 36 percent to 37.3 billion
forint ($195 million) as provisions for bad loans fell and after
a one-time writedown a year earlier, the bank reported today.
That compared with the 40.3 billion-forint mean estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.uncertanties,’’ Bencsik said.  Excluding Hungary’s tax on banks and other one-off items,
net income rose 5 percent to 44.6 billion forint, as OTP units
in central  Europe  boosted profit, led primarily by the Russian
subsidiary. Profit from foreign units accounted for 35 percent
of adjusted net income.  OTP, which has subsidiaries in nine countries in central
and eastern Europe, saw profit set back as the economic crisis
pushed most economies in the region into recession, increasing
the percentage of non-performing loans. Bad loans rose by 54
billion forint from the previous three months to 15.4 percent of
total credit at the end of the quarter, up from 15 percent at
the end of the first quarter.  Bad Loans  The volume of bad loans is set to rise in Hungary, Bencsik
said, as the stronger Swiss franc increases the risk of defaults
on franc-denominated mortgages. Provisions for bad loans dropped
40 percent from a year earlier to 50 billion forint in the
second-quarter and were 12 percent lower than in the first three
months of the year, the bank said.  The forint has weakened 12 percent against the Swiss franc
in the quarter to date, swelling households’ mortgage repayment
obligations. Sixty-four percent of Hungarian household mortgages
were denominated in foreign currencies, most of them in the
franc, according to central bank data as of June 30.  OTP’s net-interest income, the difference between what OTP
pays on deposits and charges for loans, rose 1 percent to 151
billion forint. Total loans adjusted for foreign-currency
changes decreased 0.5 percent in the second-quarter.  Outstanding loans may rise in the second half as regional
economies are growing, albeit at a slower pace than anticipated,
Bencsik said. The performance of the Russian subsidiary likely
will improve and the unit should post stronger results in the
second half, he said.  OTP plunged as much as 7 percent to 3,700 forint today,
falling for a fourth day and reaching the lowest level since
July 2009. OTP shares declined 23.8 percent this year, compared
with a 39.5 percent decline for Austrian peer  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG. (RBI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  