-- 
Louboutin Red-Soled Shoe Ruling Held Up by Judge in Yves St. Laurent Case

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-08-19T16:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/louboutin-red-soled-shoe-ruling-held-up-by-judge-in-yves-st-laurent-case.html
A judge will decide later whether to
cancel Christian Louboutin SA’s trademark for high-fashion red-
soled women’s shoes in the company’s lawsuit against Yves Saint
Laurent America.  Louboutin’s lawyers urged U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in  New York  not to convert his earlier refusal to bar
Yves Saint Laurent from selling its own red-soled shoes into an
outright cancellation of the U.S. trademark. The judge said
today he will delay a ruling while Louboutin appeals his
decision.  “The better course is to simply allow the appeal to
proceed and halt any further proceedings till we get guidance”
from the New York-based federal circuit court, Marrero said.  The judge on Aug. 10 rejected closely held Louboutin’s
request for a preliminary injunction to protect the trademark
while the case proceeds, saying it’s not likely to win its fight
for a trademark for a color.  “Color serves ornamental and aesthetic functions vital to
robust competition,” the judge said, and “Louboutin is
unlikely to be able to prove that its red outsole brand is
entitled to trademark protection.”  Louboutin, a Paris-based fashion company, said in the
lawsuit, filed in April, that  Yves Saint Laurent ’s red-soled
shoes “threaten to mislead the public.”  YSL’s Red Soles  Yves Saint Laurent, a unit of Paris-based PPR named for the
designer who died in 2008, began selling shoes with red outsoles
“long before Mr. Louboutin began using them,” David Bernstein,
a lawyer for the company, said at a hearing last month.  Lee C. Bromberg, a lawyer for Louboutin, argued today that
the company needed more time to show why the trademark shouldn’t
be canceled.  “We need an additional opportunity to marshal evidence,”
Bromberg told the judge. He said he seeks evidence on how the
fashion industry operates, how designers select colors and
whether Louboutin’s trademark would be a “hindrance to
competition,” as the judge indicated in his ruling.  Jyotin Hamid, a lawyer for Yves Saint Laurent, argued that
a search for evidence would be time-consuming and costly.  “The fundamental fact that color serves a function in
fashion is not in dispute,” Hamid said. “The facts are not
going to change as a result of reviewing e-mails in  France .”  Christian Louboutin, the designer for whom the company is
named, got the idea for the red soles when he painted red nail
polish on the black soles of a pair of women’s shoes.  All Red-Soled  All of Louboutin’s luxury shoes have had red soles since
their introduction in 1992, according to court papers.
“Louboutin is only in the shoe business,” Bromberg said.  Louboutin’s high-heeled shoes are priced from $535 to
$4,645 a pair on the website of department store  Barneys . They
have been popularized by actresses such as Sarah Jessica Parker
in the television show “Sex and the City.”  The  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office  awarded Louboutin a
trademark for the red sole in 2008, according to the company’s
complaint.  Paris-based  PPR (PP)  also owns luxury brands including Gucci.
PPR fell 1.05 euro, or 1 percent, to 105.3 euros in Paris.  The case is Christian Louboutin SA v. Yves Saint Laurent
America Inc., 11-2381, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  