-- 
RBS, Lloyds Falls Take Government Loss to 39.1 Billion Pounds

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-08-19T16:14:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/lloyds-rbs-falls-take-government-s-loss-to-40-billion-pounds.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  led U.K. banks lower in London trading,
bringing the paper loss on the government’s holdings in the two
lenders to 39.1 billion pounds ($65 billion).  RBS fell 1.18 pence, or 5.4 percent, to 20.77 pence in
London. Lloyds fell 1.425 pence, or 4.8 percent, to 28.38 pence.  The declines pare the value of the U.K.’s holdings in the
two part-nationalized banks to 26.7 billion pounds, 59 percent
less than the government’s 65.8 billion-pound investment.  “It’s difficult to see how the government can achieve a
sell-down on Lloyds and RBS until we see clarity and finality on
regulation,” said  Gareth Hunt , an Investec Securities analyst
in  London .  The U.K. invested 45.5 billion-pounds in RBS and 20.3
billion pounds in Lloyds to bolster their capital during the
2008 and 2009 banking crisis. Before the slide in the shares,
the government was considering selling part of the stakes next
year to create a one-time budget windfall before the next
election, four people familiar with the matter said in March.  The U.K. government-sponsored Independent Commission on
Banking will on Sept. 12 publish its final report on whether to
recommend Lloyds should sell more assets than the 632 branches
demanded by the European Commission, and whether banks should
erect firewalls around their consumer operations.  “We need clarity and finality from the regulator so that
the banks can then adjust their business models to get to a
acceptable level of return on equity,” a measure of
profitability, said Hunt.  Curtail Lending  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said in June he
backs Vickers’s proposals for fire-breaks, even as lenders
including RBS,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said the plans
might harm their business and that the ICB should consider
delaying implementation.  Policy makers need to use regulation to boost risk-taking
if banks curtail lending and hurt growth,  Andrew Haldane , the
Bank of England’s executive director for financial stability,
said yesterday.  “As long as aversion to risk taking is causing financial
congestion, growth -- like traffic -- will remain sluggish,”
Haldane said in a research paper released by the central bank in
London. “Macro-prudential policy may have a role to play in
shouldering the heavy burden of damaged balance sheets and
diminished risk appetites.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  