-- 
Toyota’s Lexus Readies New GS to Win Sales Lost to BMW, Mercedes

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-08-19T02:27:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/toyota-s-lexus-revamps-gs-to-regain-sales-lost-to-bmw-mercedes.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus , set to
lose its position as the top-selling U.S. luxury car brand after
11 years, is revamping its line to regain sales lost to  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW.  The 2013 Lexus GS 350 goes on sale in February with a new
look, larger interior, and better handling and acceleration,
 Mark Templin , head of U.S. Lexus sales, said in a phone
interview from Pebble Beach,  California , after the sedan’s debut
there yesterday. The car has a 306-horsepower V-6 engine, with
optional “F Sport” high-performance and hybrid versions also
due next year, he said.  “It’s the first of many models that will change the game
for Lexus,” Templin said. The new GS has sportier performance
than past versions and “is leading us into a whole new
territory,” he said.  Toyota is struggling to restock U.S. Lexus dealers left
short of inventory following  Japan ’s record earthquake and
tsunami in March. That contributed to a 19 percent drop in sales
for Lexus this year through July, putting it behind BMW and
Mercedes. Lexus probably won’t be the top-selling luxury car
brand in the U.S. this year, a position it held from 2000 to
2010, Templin has said.  Deliveries of Lexus cars and light trucks in the U.S.
totaled 102,549 so far this year. BMW’s sales rose 13 percent to
135,114 in the same period, and Mercedes rose 7.3 percent to
129,932, according to figures the companies reported this month.  Best, Not Biggest  “Our vision is that Lexus becomes the best, not the
biggest, the best, most innovative, progressive luxury brand
that delights customers from all around the world,”  Akio Toyoda ,
Toyota’s president and chief executive officer, said in a
webcast speech from Pebble Beach.  Including the GS, Lexus will release nine new or refreshed
models in 2012, Toyoda said. The GS, a rear-wheel-drive model
that competes with BMW’s 5-Series, “had to be improved much
more,” Toyoda said.  “It needed to be designed, engineered and manufactured
without compromise,” he said. “I told our engineers that we
are not moving ahead unless we do it right from the start.”  Toyoda, the grandson of the company’s founder, said he is
personally overseeing development Lexus models.  While U.S. dealers aren’t yet fully restocked, they will
have “really healthy inventory” in the final three months of
2011, Templin said. As a result of increased vehicle supplies
and new models, “we expect 2012 to be a very good year,” he
said, without elaborating.  Lexus didn’t immediately provide pricing or volume goals
for the GS. U.S. operations for Lexus are based in Torrance,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  