-- 
HP Considered Buying Tibco, Teradata

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-08-19T23:06:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/hp-considered-buying-tibco-teradata.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  considered
buying  Tibco Software Inc. (TIBX)  and  Teradata Corp. (TDC)  before pursuing
the U.K.’s Autonomy Corp., said people with direct knowledge of
the situation.  Hewlett-Packard approached Tibco this year, indicating it
could make a per-share offer in the high $30s, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the details aren’t
public. Tibco Chief Executive Officer Vivek Ranadive held out
for a higher bid, telling the board he could get the stock to
the proposed price range without a takeover, the person said.  Tibco, which sells software to companies that connect
applications, had sales of $216.4 million in the second quarter
ended in May, up 25 percent from a year earlier. Net income grew
64 percent to $21 million at the  Palo Alto , California-based
company. The stock slipped 58 cents, or 3 percent, to $18.49 as
of 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Hewlett-Packard also examined Dayton, Ohio-based software
maker Teradata before approaching Autonomy in April, said some
of the people. Teradata, which provides data warehousing
technologies and services, had $581 million in sales in the
second quarter ended in June, up 24 percent from
the previous year. Profits rose 39 percent to $103 million.  Yesterday, Hewlett-Packard announced it agreed to buy
Cambridge, England-based Autonomy for $10.3 billion. Autonomy
CEO  Michael Lynch , who has known Hewlett-Packard chief Leo Apotheker since his days at the helm of SAP AG, entered talks
with the company without seeking competing bids because it had
performed well independently, lessening the need for a sale, the
people said.  U.S., Europe Woes  Bill Wohl , a spokesman for Hewlett-Packard, declined to
comment. David Patterson, a spokesman for Teradata, and
Autonomy’s U.S.-based spokeswoman Winifred Shum also declined to
comment.  Hewlett-Packard had hesitated about whether to pursue the
Autonomy deal after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the U.S.’s credit
rating this month and global markets declined amid the widening
European sovereign-debt crisis, the people said.  The Palo Alto, California-based company declined $5.91, or
20 percent, to $23.60 as of 4 p.m. on the New York Stock
Exchange, the steepest decline in more than 23 years. Teradata
dropped $2.07, or 4.6 percent, to $43.35.  Hewlett-Packard, whose debt financing for the deal was
arranged by Barclays Plc, is using part of its cash abroad for
the acquisition, said the people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  