-- 
Hewlett-Packard’s PC Spinoff Would ‘Reinvent’ Company With Return to Roots

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-08-19T20:19:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/hp-s-pc-spinoff-would-reinvent-company-with-return-to-roots.html
By spinning off  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s
personal-computer business, Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  is shedding a unit the founders never liked anyway.  David Packard only reluctantly agreed to focus on PCs in
the early 1990s. And Walter Hewlett, a board member and son of
co-founder Bill Hewlett, mounted an unsuccessful campaign to
block the 2002 acquisition of Compaq Computer Corp., a deal that
vaulted Hewlett-Packard to the top of the PC industry.  From Hewlett-Packard’s  beginnings  in 1939, the company’s
founders set out to invent one-of-a-kind products and tools for
engineers. They never intended to become the biggest provider of
a commodity product, said Michael Cusumano, a professor at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology ’s  Sloan School of
Management . Now that PC profits are waning amid competition from
Asian rivals, Apotheker is poised to return to that philosophy.  “Their DNA never included being a commodity consumer
products manufacturer, which is what the PC has become,”
Cusumano said. “It’s certainly not where the action and
innovation is in the business these days. They can reinvent
themselves. They may have the capability to do it.”  While the PC unit accounted for 30 percent of sales last
quarter, it only generated a 5.9 percent operating margin.
That’s less than at any other division in the company.  Hewlett-Packard, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , dropped
$5.91, or 20 percent, to $23.60 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock
Exchange, the biggest decline since October 1987.  IBM’s Deal  Hewlett-Packard’s move mirrors a broader shift among U.S.
technology companies, with fewer of them designing and selling
PCs -- a trend that began when  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  offloaded its PC unit to  China ’s Lenovo Group Ltd. in
2005.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the second-largest PC maker, also is focusing
more on services, though PCs still make up about half its sales.  The U.S. and European PC markets declined last quarter,
while Asia Pacific, excluding  Japan , grew more than 12 percent,
according to research firm IDC. Local manufacturers benefited
more from that growth than Hewlett-Packard. Its shipments grew 3
percent in the quarter, compared with 23 percent growth for
Lenovo and 6 percent for Asustek Computer Inc., the Taiwanese
maker of low-cost computers.  “All the PC vendors in the U.S. are now more focused on
services,” said Pat Becker Jr., a  fund manager  at  Portland ,
Oregon-based Becker Capital Management Inc. His firm holds
Hewlett-Packard shares as part of the $2.2 billion it oversees.
“You look at the margin structure of the PC business and the
cyclicality, and it’s best led by somebody outside our
borders.”  Steve Wozniak  Hewlett-Packard was a reluctant and relatively late entrant
to the personal-computer market, which IBM turned into a
mainstream product with  the release  of its first PC in 1981.
Years before, Hewlett-Packard had turned down a proposal by one
of its engineers to buy the design for a home computer he
invented. The employee, Steve Wozniak, turned the idea into the
Apple I in the 1970s. Still, Packard never expressed regret for
the decision.  Packard agreed to let the company begin selling PCs in the
early 1990s, so that they could be used to access Hewlett-
Packard’s more sophisticated Unix machines. Packard never cared
for computers in general, preferring other kinds of electronic
equipment, according to “Perfect Enough,” a 2003 book by
George Anders, who is now a Bloomberg columnist.  Packard, who died in 1996, wasn’t around to see CEO Carly Fiorina bet the company on PCs. Both Hewlett and Packard’s
foundations voted against the $18.9 billion deal, which was
completed in May 2002. Hewlett died the year before.  Fiorina’s Fight  Walter Hewlett, the co-founder’s son and a board member,
budgeted $32 million to fight the deal, out of concern about the
impact of the low-margin PC business. When Fiorina won the four-
month proxy battle, Hewlett sued Hewlett-Packard in Delaware
chancery court, prompting Fiorina and the board to kick him off.  The acquisition has helped the company grow over the last
decade, said Dan Olds, an analyst at Gabriel Consulting in
Beaverton,  Oregon .  “HP became a dominant player in PCs, so I don’t know if I
would call this the revenge of Walter,” Olds said.  Now Apotheker, who took the reins of Hewlett-Packard in
November, may turn his back on the PC business.  The move would put pressure on the company to improve its
other businesses, including corporate software, services,
security, storage and networking, Cusumano said. It also will
have to do what IBM did and acquire more software companies.
Apotheker made a move in that direction yesterday, agreeing to
buy the search-software maker Autonomy Corp. for $10.3 billion.  Autonomy, based in Cambridge,  England , jumped 74 percent to
24.90 pounds ($41.29) as of 2:41 p.m. in  London . Before today,
the stock had declined 5.1 percent this year.  “Giving up a third of your revenue, even if you end up
being more profitable, it’s still a big chunk,” Cusumano said.
“As the biggest PC manufacturer, they were in a lot of people’s
homes as well as offices. They will lose that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  