-- 
Payrolls Climb in 31 States, Led by New York, Texas; Nevada Is at Bottom

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-19T20:26:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/payrolls-increased-in-31-u-s-states-in-july-led-by-new-york.html
Payrolls climbed in 31 U.S. states
in July, led by  New York  and Texas, while the jobless rate
increased in 28, painting a mixed employment picture the month
before global stock markets slumped.  Employers in New York boosted staff by 29,400 workers,
while those in Texas added 29,300, figures from the Labor
Department showed today in Washington. Joblessness increased by
0.4 percentage point in Illinois,  Michigan ,  Minnesota  and  South
Carolina . Nevada continued to lead the nation in unemployment
with a rate of 12.9 percent.  Widespread job growth is needed to shore up incomes after
spending among consumers ground to a halt in the second quarter,
raising concern the world’s largest economy was stalling. A
Labor Department report on Aug. 5 showed employers added 117,000
workers to payrolls last month and the jobless rate fell to 9.1
percent.  “The overall labor market was doing better than previous
months but the bigger point is that it’s a lot weaker than
earlier in the year,”  Paul Dales , senior U.S. economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. In Toronto, said before the report.
“That’s a concern given that any data from July won’t reflect
the market turmoil in the last couple of weeks that really could
have prompted some businesses to postpone or cancel any hiring
plans.”  Shares Climb  Stocks dropped, extending the fourth straight weekly slump
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The gauge fell 1.5 percent
to 1,123.53 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. Treasury securities
were little changed.  After Nevada, the jobless rate was highest in  California  at
12 percent and Michigan and South Carolina, both at 10.9
percent.  Michigan and Tennessee rounded out the top four states
showing the biggest increases in payrolls with gains of 23,000
and 14,300, respectively.  The biggest job losses last month occurred in  Illinois ,
where employers cut payrolls by 24,900, and in  Florida , which
saw a 22,100 decrease.  Over the past 12 months, six states lost jobs, including
Indiana, Nevada, Kansas, Alabama, Georgia and Delaware.  The jobless rate in North Dakota, the lowest in U.S.,
increased to 3.3 percent from 3.2 percent in June.  Smaller Job Gains  While payroll growth picked up in July, employment
prospects for Americans have dimmed compared with earlier in the
year. Employers added 216,000 workers from May to July, compared
with 646,000 in the prior three month period.  “Indicators suggest a deterioration in overall labor
market conditions in recent months,” the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said in a statement on Aug. 9. “The  unemployment rate 
will decline only gradually toward levels that the Committee
judges to be consistent with its dual mandate” of maximum
employment and price stability.  With an economy that’s growing “considerably slower” than
expected, the Federal Reserve policy makers pledged for the
first time to keep the benchmark  interest rate  at a record low
at least through mid-2013.  The risk of a recession has risen to 30 percent from 14
percent in July, according to the median of the 39 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. A 14 percent drop in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index since the beginning of July through yesterday,
government fiscal austerity and a lack of jobs will hurt U.S.
growth, which slowed to a 0.9 percent pace in the first half of
2011, the economists said.  Cutting Staff  Banks have been among companies announcing they will cut
jobs in coming weeks. Bank of America Corp. Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  told managers at the biggest U.S.
lender in a memo yesterday to expect 3,500 job cuts this
quarter. Some employees have already been informed of the
firings, which are in addition to 2,500 reductions made this
year, Moynihan said.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  