-- 
Perry Made More Than a Million on Real Estate While in Office

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-08-19T04:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/perry-made-more-than-a-million-on-real-estate-while-in-office.html
Texas Governor Rick Perry, who has
never been paid a government salary of more than $150,000,
became a millionaire while in public office through well-timed
sales in the Texas real estate market.  The Republican presidential hopeful bought property from
friends and political allies and sold to Texas businessmen, such
as computer magnate  Michael Dell , and in the process made more
than $1 million. Perry’s income also was supplemented by stock
sales, according to his tax returns and county land and tax
records.  The transactions have drawn criticism from Democrats and
ethics experts because, at times, they involved people who would
benefit from their ties to the governor and because Perry always
came out on top in the real estate deals.  “Public officials have a responsibility around conflicts
of interest to avoid even the appearance of impropriety,” said
Thomas Donaldson, a University of Pennsylvania Wharton School
business ethics professor who hasn’t reviewed the transactions
in detail.  “Every piece of land that the governor has bought has been
scrutinized and has been reported properly,” Mark Miner, a
Perry spokesman, said.  Not all of Perry’s dealings in the stock market were
winners. In 2009, at the height of the financial crisis, he
reported capital losses of $564,000, suggesting he or his
trustee sold stocks when the market collapsed.  Land Transactions  Still, the governor’s land transactions produced about $1.2
million in profits and he managed to build enough wealth to be
ranked today among the millionaire candidates in the 2012
Republican presidential field.  Perry’s most lucrative land deal involved property he
bought three months before he took over the Texas governorship
in 2000 from  George W. Bush , who stepped down after defeating
Democratic nominee and former Vice President  Al Gore  in the
presidential election.  In September 2000, Perry bought a home lot in a resort
community known as Horseshoe Bay. The lot had 173 feet of
waterfront property in the “Peninsula,” which is situated on
the shore of Lake Lyndon B. Johnson northwest of Austin.  The then-lieutenant governor bought the tract from then-
state Representative Troy Fraser, now a Republican state
senator, for $314,000, according to Perry’s tax returns and
county records.  Seven Years Later  Perry never built on the land and sold it seven years
later, while he was governor, for $1.14 million, claiming a gain
of $824,000, records show.  “ Rick Perry  really gives a new meaning to the phrase
’living off the land,’” said Jeff Rotkoff, a consultant with the
Back to Basics PAC, a political group that tracks Perry’s
business deals.  The governor’s ride on the real estate and housing market
boom of the 1990s and early 2000s coincides with his political
career.  After his first statewide election in 1990 to the office of
agriculture commissioner, Perry sold his home for $116,000,
claiming a $18,000 gain. The following year he bought a new home
for $169,000.  Two years later, he purchased undeveloped land near  Austin 
for $55,288, according to his tax returns. In 1994, Perry sold
the land, which was described in tax records simply as “lots-
Austin,” for $125,000.  Bigger Payoff  A year later, the governor saw an even bigger real estate
payoff when a lot he purchased in August 1993 was sold for a
gain of $343,000, according to his tax returns. Mike Toomey, a
former Republican state representative, was given power of
attorney to complete Perry’s purchase of the land. Toomey served
as Perry’s chief of staff from 2002 to 2004 and is now a Texas
lobbyist.  The property was sold to Dell, the chief executive officer
of Dell Computers, who needed the land to access public sewer
lines for his adjacent property.  Perry’s spokesman declined to comment specifically on the
Dell transaction. Dell Inc. spokesman  David Frink  referred
Bloomberg to Michael Dell’s personal financial advisers at MSD
Capital. The company didn’t respond to requests for comment on
the transaction.  According to Perry’s tax records, the governor also
generated extra income through the stock market. His 2005 and
2006 tax returns showed dozens of share trades generating short-
and long-term  capital gains .  Kinetic Concepts  In 1996 he earned $39,000 when he sold a stake in  Kinetic
Concepts Inc. (KCI) , a health care company founded by James Leininger,
a longtime political supporter. Leininger and his wife have
given $239,233 to Perry’s campaigns in the last 10 years,
according to state campaign disclosure reports.  By 2007, Perry had put all his assets into a blind trust,
tax records show. The full value of Perry’s wealth is unknown.
He has 60 days to file his presidential financial disclosure
report after jumping into the race on Aug. 13.  Perry’s wealth isn’t expected to match that of rival  Mitt Romney , who reported assets worth between $190 million and $240
million, according to his financial disclosures.  Michele Bachmann , the Minnesota congresswomen who last week
won the Republican Iowa Straw Poll, reported in her disclosures
that she had an interest in a family farm worth as much as $1
million, and that her husband’s psychotherapy practice was worth
as much as $1.25 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  