-- 
Ackman to Raise J.C. Penney Stake in Long-Term Commitment to U.S. Retailer

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-08-19T20:37:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/pershing-square-s-ackman-to-raise-j-c-penney-economic-stake-up-to-26-1-.html
William Ackman ’s Pershing Square
Capital Management LP hedge fund plans to raise its stake in
J.C. Penney Co., signaling the activist investor’s confidence in
the retailer’s long-term prospects. J.C. Penney shares rose.  Pershing Square and affiliates plan to acquire a “synthetic
long position” to make its exposure to the retailer equal to as
much as 26.1 percent of its outstanding common stock, according
to a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing today.  Ackman, who was named to J.C. Penney’s board earlier this
year, holds an 18.3 percent stake in the company, according to a
filing today. The retailer in January decided to shut its
catalog business and related outlets after talks with Ackman,
45, about improving results.  “It shows his conviction and the potential of the
business,”  Joe Feldman , an analyst for Telsey Advisory Group in
 New York , said in a telephone interview. “He is putting his
money behind it.”  Ackman didn’t immediately return a telephone message
seeking comment.  J.C. Penney rose 57 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $24.38 at
4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading after
earlier declining as much as 1.6 percent. The shares had dropped
26 percent this year before today.  Stock Agreement  Under the agreement signed today, Ackman will reduce his
voting rights to 15 percent of shares outstanding, said Darcie
Brossart, a J.C. Penney spokeswoman. The agreement also bars
Ackman from increasing the number of shares he holds without
prior written consent from Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney.  “Pershing wanted to increase its investment, and that is
why they went into negotiations with the board,” Brossart said
today in a telephone interview. “Obviously, he sees J.C. Penney
stock as an attractive investment opportunity.”  Ackman often invests in public companies by both purchasing
their stock and by entering into total return swaps. A synthetic
long position typically refers to a derivative contract, such as
a total return swap, in which the investor receives cash
payments should a company’s shares rise without actually holding
the stock and the related  voting rights .  In March, Ackman teamed up with former associate  Richard McGuire  of Marcato Capital Management LLC to buy a 9.9 percent
stake in Alexander & Baldwin, a Honolulu-based container ship
and land company. They spent $168.8 million to purchase 4.1
million common shares and used total return swaps to gain an
economic interest in an additional 372,900 common shares,
according to an  SEC filing .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net  