-- 
PG&E Pipeline Defense Led by CEO Tested by Northeast Blackout

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-08-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/pg-e-pipeline-defense-led-by-ceo-tested-by-northeast-blackout.html
Ninety minutes after the 2003
blackout began with the lights flickering out in Anthony Earley’s Detroit office, the power company executive was
standing in front of television cameras in his building’s
parking lot.  Earley held seven news conferences in three days during the
historic blackout that stretched across eight U.S. states and
into  Canada , using his position as chief executive officer of
 DTE Energy Co. (DTE)  to become the calming voice of the industry.  “The goal was to give the public a message: We have a
plan,” he said, recalling that day in an Aug. 11 interview with
Bloomberg Government.  Now Earley, 62, is crafting another plan to rescue a
company in crisis. Almost a year after a  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  natural-gas
pipeline exploded, killing eight people and destroying 38 homes
in the San Francisco suburb of San Bruno, Earley has been named
CEO, charged with restoring the California utility’s credibility
with customers, regulators and officials.  The company faces a criminal probe, regulatory scrutiny
over pipeline safety and customer backlash against an initiative
to track electricity usage more precisely.  “It probably is the most difficult job in the industry
right now,” said Earley, who begins his new job Sept. 13. It’s
also “a once-in-a-career opportunity.”  In his 26 years in the power industry, Earley has guided
utilities through battles over nuclear plants, controversial
rate increases and new power competition laws. As chairman of
the Edison Electric Institute, the Washington-based utility
industry group, he wrestled with Congress over climate change
legislation.  ‘Ah Ha Moment’  His handling of the 2003 blackout captured the attention of
interim PG&E chairman and CEO Lee Cox, who stepped in after
chairman and CEO Peter Darbee resigned in April in the aftermath
of the pipeline blast.  When Earley described his decision to immediately begin
communicating with the public during the crisis, “it was one of
those ‘ah ha’ moments,” Cox said. “This man had instincts as
well as textbook learning. ”  Earley, born in Queens, New York, earned a degree in
physics at the University of  Notre Dame  in  South Bend ,  Indiana ,
in 1971, then went on to get advanced degrees in law and
engineering from Notre Dame in 1979, according to DTE.  Earley says he learned to stay calm under pressure as a
naval officer monitoring Soviet nuclear torpedo exercises on a
submarine in the Western Pacific in the early 1970s. With 100
men under his command, he says he realized, “If I screw up,
this is going to be a very serious incident.”  Nuclear Battle  He cut his teeth in the utility industry in the early 1980s
as an attorney representing Long Island Lighting Co. in a fight
to open a nuclear plant about 75 miles (120 kilometers) from  New
York  City. A population boom brought affluent neighbors who
opposed the plant, Earley said. Ultimately, the company sold the
facility to the city’s Long Island Power Authority, which
mothballed it.  “That was a fairly bruising political battle,” Earley
recalled. Soon after, he was elevated to chief operating officer
and became the face of the company in television commercials
that tried to restore its reputation with customers by promising
to freeze electricity bills.  Earley was pressed into relationship-repair duty again at
Detroit-based DTE, which he joined as chief operating officer in
1994. He was promoted to CEO in 1998.  “His predecessor was an old-style, hard-line guy,” said
Robert Nelson, a  Michigan  Public Service Commissioner from 1999
through 2005.  Detroit  Revitalization  Earley won favor with business and city leaders by raising
money to rebuild Detroit’s downtown riverfront neighborhood,
said Doug Rothwell, CEO of Business Leaders for Michigan, an
economic-development organization.  “When people were on the cusp of trying to decide whether
it was a good idea to make millions of investments in downtown,
Tony led the effort to build private-sector confidence,”
Rothwell said in a telephone interview.  Earley intervened personally in 1999 when the state’s
utility commission held hearings about service problems caused
by aging equipment at its subsidiary, Detroit Edison.  The utility commission fined the company a total of $1.36
million during Earley’s 12-year tenure as CEO for violations
including a failure to comply with pipeline safety standards,
according to commission data. The largest fine was for $975,000
for “anti-competitive behavior” in 2005 when the company was
deemed too slow in responding to customers’ requests to change
their power supplier, according to the data.  Customer Complaints  In 2002, regulators told DTE Energy to overhaul its
customer service and billing departments after an investigation
into customer complaints about billing errors and alleged
overcharging.  It was a rough period for Earley, Laura Chappelle, former
chairman of the Commission, said in a telephone interview. “No
one was happy” about the utility’s behavior.  When Akron, Ohio-based  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) ’s high-voltage
lines overheated in August 2003, triggering the historic
blackout, Earley had been CEO for five years. On the way to the
parking lot for the first news conference, S. Martin Taylor, the
company’s public-affairs chief, tried to ease Earley’s nerves,
quipping that “No one’s going to see you; no one has any
electricity,” Earley recalled.  Overseeing Cleanup  Three years ago, Earley was in the public eye again after a
bad summer storm knocked out power in the Detroit area and the
CEO went out into neighborhoods to oversee cleanup himself, said
Orjiakor Isiogu, chairman of the Michigan Public Service
Commission.  “He could have easily just sent somebody else,” Isiogu
said in a telephone interview.  Earley stepped down as CEO last year, continuing as DTE’s
chairman to lobby on  energy policy  in  Washington . Earley said
PG&E approached him in May as a CEO candidate.  He’ll have more than relationships to fix at PG&E. The
company froze its dividend this year and cut its profit forecast
by 5 percent, partially due to costs that may top $1 billion to
test and repair parts of its 5,700-mile gas pipeline system.  Earley said his focus will be on restoring operational
excellence. Once that’s accomplished, he said, “you’ll see the
trust and the confidence of the public start to improve.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Mark Chediak in  San
Francisco  at   mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Susan Warren
at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 