-- 
Poles Should Work Longer for Pension, Labor Minister Says

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-08-19T13:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/poles-should-work-longer-for-their-pensions-to-aid-budget-minister-says.html
Poles should work longer to help the
government trim public spending and narrow the fiscal deficit to
within the European Union’s limit next year, Labor Minister
Jolanta Fedak said.  Poland’s  retirement age  is 60 for women and 65 for men,
higher than some other EU countries, though many Poles stop
working earlier. About 65 percent of the workforce is employed,
below the EU average, while only 35 percent of those aged
between 55 and 64 are in legal employment, compared with an EU
average of 51 percent, according to the  World Bank .  “I’m in favor of people who are able to work doing so for
as long as they can,” said Fedak in an interview. “There are a
number of professions in Poland that allow you to retire after
15 years of work. That should change, those people should work
longer.” Army employees, police and miners are among the groups
with the right to retire earlier.  While  Poland  was the only member of the 27-nation bloc to
avoid a recession in 2009, it has struggled to improve its
public finances. The general government deficit has more than
quadrupled since 2007 and exceeded the EU’s 3 percent of
economic output limit for a third year in 2010.  Deficit Concerns  Concern about Poland’s deficit increased the cost of
insuring the country’s debt against default amid the sovereign-
debt crisis in western  Europe . Poland’s five-year credit-default
swaps, used to speculate on a borrower’s ability to repay debt
or hedge against losses, rose to 214 basis points today compared
with 85 basis points in March 2010, according to figures from
data provider CMA.  The zloty rose to 4.1733 against the euro as of 3:53 p.m.
in Warsaw from 4.1860 at yesterday’s close.  The solution to the problem in the labor market is to help
people set up their own businesses or give financial incentives
to continue working instead of increasing the retirement age or
evening out the age that men or women retire, as some  EU states 
including the U.K. and  Italy  have decided, she said.  “What we need in Poland is to encourage people to stay in
work until they reach the retirement age, not raise the age
limit itself,” Fedak, 50, said. “Legislative changes that
equalize the retirement age of men and women don’t make sense.
What is the point of telling a 60-year-old woman she has to work
another five years if there’s no job for her?”  Labor Market  The situation on Poland’s labor market is not as bad as in
countries like  Spain , which has the highest jobless rate in the
EU, she said. The rate is unlikely to fall to the government
forecast of 10.9 percent at the end of this year, she added.  Employment grew 3.3 percent in July, below expectations and
the lowest rate this year. If economic growth falls below around
3.5 percent, “redundancies will begin,” Fedak said.  Poland’s currency has weakened and the benchmark WIG20
Index has slumped as euro region leaders struggle to contain a
sovereign-debt crisis that threatens to spread. While economic
growth will probably be in line with the government’s 4 percent
estimate this year, next year’s performance is “anyone’s
guess” because of the turmoil’s possible impact, Fedak said.  General Elections  Fedak, who is deputy leader of the Polish Peasants’ Party,
made her comments as the government faces a general election on
October 9. While Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s ruling Civic
Platform tops opinion polls, the Peasants’ Party, a junior
coalition partner, is hovering around the 5 percent threshold
needed for parliamentary representation.  The stability of the current coalition, the first to stay
in power for the duration of the four-year parliamentary term
since the collapse of communism, means its continuation after
the election would be the best guarantee that Poland will push
through the changes necessary to cut the  budget deficit  and
boost economic growth.  “I wouldn’t rule out cooperation with any party, we have
to respect the will of the voters, but to be honest, I would
prefer to carry on the coalition we have at present ” she said.
“The finance minister and I are from different political
parties and, you could say, from different planets, but we get
on very well. As far as economic policy goes, we’re absolutely
in agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  