-- 
Caisse de Depot Posts 3.6% Return on Private-Equity, Real Estate Gains

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-08-19T16:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/quebec-s-caisse-de-depot-posts-3-6-return-in-first-half-on-private-equity.html
Caisse de Depot et Placement du
Quebec,  Canada ’s biggest pension- fund manager , posted a 3.6
percent investment return in the first half of the year, fueled
by gains in private equity, real estate and infrastructure.  The Caisse had C$5.3 billion ($5.38 billion) in investment
income in the first six months of 2011 with further net
contributions of C$900 million, the Montreal-based fund manager
said today in a statement. Net assets rose to C$157.9 billion as
of June 30, up from C$151.7 billion on Dec. 31 and C$135.8
billion a year earlier.  The results compared with the 2.2 percent average increase
of Canadian pension funds for the first half of 2011, as
estimated in a July report by RBC Dexia Investor Services.  “These solid returns in the first half of the year were
achieved in a climate characterized by gradual market
deterioration,” Chief Executive Officer  Michael Sabia  said in
the statement.  The Caisse’s returns were primarily driven by gains in
private-equity, real estate and infrastructure holdings, which
generated C$2.8 billion of the investment income, the fund
manager said. Bonds and equities added C$2 billion.  Inflation-sensitive investments, which include real-return
bonds, infrastructure and real estate, had a 5.3 percent return
in the half, compared with 3 percent for equity and 2.9 percent
for fixed income, the fund manager said. Equities represented 47
percent of the fund’s overall portfolio, compared with 37
percent in fixed income and 15 percent in inflation-sensitive
assets.  Cuts Global Forecast  The Caisse cut its global growth forecast a few weeks ago,
Sabia told reporters today on a conference call without
disclosing details. Sabia called the global economic situation
“highly uncertain” and noted that fund is not immune to market
turmoil.  “Clearly there’s a very high degree of turbulence and
anxiety in the markets,” Sabia said in the conference call.
“To put it mildly, growth is anemic. I can’t put enough
emphasis on the importance of generating growth in this
environment. The challenge is where that growth is going to come
from.”  The Caisse had a 14 percent return on investments in 2010,
with gains in private equity, infrastructure, stocks and fixed
income amid a rebound in global markets.  The Caisse oversees pensions for retirees in the French-
speaking province of  Quebec .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  