-- 
Rand Reverses Losses, Heads for First Weekly Gain in Three as Stocks Rally

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-19T14:39:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/rand-heads-for-third-weekly-decline-versus-dollar-on-growth-debt-concerns.html
The rand gained versus the dollar,
headed for its first weekly advance in three, as stocks erased
losses and the euro rallied on speculation the region will sell
joint bonds to halt the debt crisis.  South Africa ’s currency gained as much as 1.1 percent to
7.1394 per dollar and traded at 7.1416 as of 4:28 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The rand has gained 0.6 percent this week after
declining 6.8 percent in the preceding two weeks.  The dollar declined versus most of its major counterparts
including the euro as U.S. stocks erased losses and gold
declined from a record. European Union regulators said they will
present proposals for euro bonds, putting pressure on  Germany  to
drop its opposition. South Africa’s benchmark stock index erased
a decline to the lowest level in a week.  “The dollar has lost some steam against the euro, and that
has helped the rand,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief dealer at
Bidvest Bank in Johannesburg, which runs South Africa’s largest
chain of moneychangers, said by phone. “Equity markets have
recovered a bit, and that should stabilize riskier assets such
as the rand.”  The rand often trades in tandem with the euro, the currency
of 45 percent of the nation’s exports, with a statistical
correlation of 0.57 over the past year. A value of 1 would mean
they moved in lock step.  The rand extended its advance as exporters took advantage
of the currency’s earlier decline to the lowest in a week to
convert dollar earnings to rand.  “Local exporters will be using rand weakness to lock in
favorable forward rates, which could cap” rand weakness,
Tradition Analytics strategists led by Johannesburg-based
Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  