-- 
South Africa Rand, the Worst Major Currency, to Slip 7.9%, Citigroup Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-19T15:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/rand-worst-major-currency-to-weaken-7-on-growth-concern-citigroup-says.html
The rand, the worst-performing major
currency worldwide this year, may extend losses by as much as
7.9 percent from current levels over the next year as global
growth concerns damp demand for riskier assets, Citigroup Inc.
said.  South Africa ’s currency may decline to 7.75 per dollar over
the next six to 12 months, Citigroup analysts led by London-
based Jeremy Hale wrote in a research note. Citigroup previously
forecast the rand would weaken to 7.20. The currency of  Africa ’s
biggest economy gained 1.1 percent to 7.1377 per dollar by 4:31
p.m. in Johannesburg, paring its loss this year to 7.1 percent,
the only one of 16 major currencies monitored by Bloomberg to
decline versus the greenback.  The rand pared a 31 percent advance since the beginning of
2009 as  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis prompted investors to
exit riskier, emerging-market assets and on concern slowing
global growth will reduce demand for the country’s commodity
exports. South Africa’s budget shortfall and current-account
deficit also put pressure on the rand, the analysts wrote.  “The rand has been hit particularly hard by the spike in
global  risk aversion ,” they wrote. “Fundamental overvaluation
and twin deficits haven’t helped.”  South Africa’s budget shortfall in the current financial
year will be 5.3 percent of gross domestic product, the National
Treasury estimated on Feb. 23. The current-account gap widened
to 3.1 percent of GDP in the first quarter, from 1 percent the
quarter before, and may swell to 4.2 percent for the year, the
Treasury estimated.  Nationalization Concern  A debate sparked by  Julius Malema , leader of the ruling
 African National Congress ’ youth wing, about nationalization of
mines and banks also soured investor sentiment towards the rand,
while strikes for higher wages in industries ranging from mining
and energy have damped growth prospects, the Citigroup analysts
wrote.  “Pressure on the currency is likely to remain in the run
up to the ANC policy conference next year”, where Malema’s
nationalization proposals will be debated, the Citigroup
analysts wrote. Flows into the nation’s bond and stock markets
and foreign direct investments may “prevent a more severe sell-
off in the rand,” they added.  Foreign investors have been net buyers of 56.3 billion rand
($7.8 billion) of South African bonds this year, offsetting 5.57
billion rand net sales of equities, according to JSE Ltd. data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  