-- 
Rapaport Group Plans $100 Million-Plus Diamond Fund as Gem Prices Climb

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-08-19T15:31:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/rapaport-plans-diamond-fund-exceeding-100-million-as-gem-prices-increase.html
Rapaport Group, which operates a
diamond-pricing service, plans to start a fund that allows
investors to bet on rising demand in China and  India .  The Rapaport Diamond Fund, which will buy and hold polished
diamonds, will start up in the first half of next year, Chairman
Martin Rapaport said yesterday in a telephone interview from
company offices in  Ramat Gan ,  Israel . The fund will initially
only be open to institutional investors and begin with more than
$10 million before increasing in size to more than $100 million,
Rapaport said, declining to provide further details.  Martin Rapaport forecasts global demand outstripping supply
by at least 75 million carats by 2025 as producers struggle to
find deposits that can be mined commercially and buying
increases in  Asia . The average price for internally flawless or
very slightly flawed one-carat diamonds climbed 38 percent in
the 12 months through Aug. 15 to $11,013, according to the
Rapaport Diamond Trade Index.  “Diamonds are going to track exponential growth of wealth
in developing markets,” Rapaport said. “Chinese demand for
diamonds is simply fantastic, so is Indian.”  Global consumption of diamonds will continue to rise even
as slowing economic growth in the U.S. and  Europe  affects demand
in developed countries, Rapaport said. The decline of the  U.S.
dollar  creates further opportunity for investors who use
commodities such as gold or diamonds as a haven asset, Rapaport
said.  ‘Markets Are Weird’  “The financial markets are weird and people are looking
for alternatives to holding the dollar,” Rapaport said. “In
that kind of environment, diamond prices are going to do very
well.”  The first diamond investment trust, set up by Thomson
McKinnon Securities Inc. in the 1980s, was wound up after a
slump in the market, according to reports by the New York Times
and Reuters.  Diamond Circle Capital Plc (DIAM) , the first publicly
listed fund to invest in the stones, is unchanged in the past 12
months and has declined 55 percent since it began trading in
June 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 