-- 
Rapture, Freud’s Fatso, Batali’s Beer, Gandhara: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-08-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/rapture-freud-s-33-6-million-fatso-gandharan-baby-eater-n-y-weekend.html
For some cheeky fun tonight, attend
the New York premiere of “Renard” choreographed by Mark Morris. With evocative Russian melodies, Stravinsky’s music
provides humor and drama for the age-old story of the fox in the
henhouse.  Set and costumes are by the clever Maira Kalman, so hens
appear in poodle skirts a la 1955, with ID t-shirts for the fox,
cock, cat and goat.  Part of the Mostly Mozart Festival, at the Rose Theater in
the Time Warner Center, Broadway and 60th St. 7:30 p.m.  Another festival choice this evening is Nelson Freire
playing Beethoven’s serenely beautiful Fourth Piano Concerto.  Stravinsky’s classical Symphony in C rounds out the
program, with Louis Langree conducting the Mostly Mozart
Festival Orchestra.  Arrive at 7 p.m. for a pre-concert Brahms recital by the
Katz-Shteinberg Duo.  Avery Fisher Hall ,  Lincoln Center , at 8 p.m. Information:
+1-212-721-6500;  http://mostlymozart.org .  Saturday  After a break-down in U.S.-Pakistani relations, the
treasures almost didn’t make it out of Lahore and Karachi, but
now 75 Buddhist Gandharan works are on view at the  Asia Society .  The trade routes made this a cosmopolitan place 2,000 years
ago. Look for the winsome gold figurine of Aphrodite, a brooch
showing Eros reclining on a blossom and a statue of the fearsome
infant-gobbling goddess Hariti.  Don’t miss the magnificent fourth-century relief “Vision
of a Buddha’s Paradise.” His hands in the gesture of teaching,
the enlightened one sits in the center, surrounded by a host of
bodhisattvas and worshippers.  Runs through Oct. 30 at 725 Park Avenue. Information: +1-
212-288-6400;  http://asiasociety.org .  Saturday Matinee  Simon Russell Beale is London cabbie Jimmy MacNeill, who
listens to the stories of his drunken and neurotic passengers.  Everything changes when he picks up his estranged wife,
Clare.  This is the American premiere of “Bluebird,” savvy
British playwright Simon Stephens’s earliest work.  By the way, the title refers not to the bird, but to the
cab in which the action takes place.  In previews at the Atlantic Theater Company, Stage 2, 330
W. 16th St., opening Aug. 22. Information: +1-212-279-4200;
 http://www.atlantictheater.org .  For refreshment, head up to Birreria, the roof-top beer
garden and brewery at  Mario Batali ’s Eataly.  Order an unfiltered, unpasteurized, naturally carbonated
cask ale and a Biroldo sausage. Enjoy the view of the Empire
State Building.  200 Fifth Ave. at 23rd St. Information: +1-212-937-8910.  Saturday Night  With their single, “How Deep Is Your Love,” leading the
pack for best of the year, the Rapture have been stoking their
audience into anticipatory sweats and hip-thrusts.  Lead man Luke Jenner and company play the  Music Hall  of
Williamsburg tonight, debuting material from their first album
in five years, “In the Grace of Your Love.”  Masters of dance-rock, the trio has shifted gears this time
with disco-inflected rhythms and squalling sax solos. Jenner’s
plaintive tenor still beckons you to the floor, so expect to
leave the hall soaked.  Bring your own cowbell -- you’ll need it.  66 N. 6th St.,  Brooklyn . Information: +1-718-486-5400;
 http://www.musichallofwilliamsburg.com .  Sunday  Revel in the flesh at the  Metropolitan Museum ’s “Homage to
 Lucian Freud ,” where 17 of the master’s paintings are
installed, most from anonymous collections.  There’s the Met’s own “Naked Man, Back View” (1991-92), a
portrait of the large performance artist Leigh Bowery. “And the
Bridegroom” (1993) shows a pale and naked young girl sleeping
next to Bowery.  And of course there’s Sue Tilley, the even larger female
benefits supervisor. Her portrait sold for $33.6 million at
auction in 2008, the highest price ever for a work by a living
artist.  The grandson of  Sigmund Freud , with a reputation as a rake
and gambler, the artist died last month at 88.  Runs through Dec. 31 at the Met, 1000 Fifth Ave.
Information: +1-212-535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  Sunday Afternoon & Evening  Feel like hearing James Joyce-inspired popular songs?
You’re in luck -- “Araby,” by Church of Betty founder
Christopher Rael, is part of this year’s New York International
Fringe Festival.  Accompanied by a chamber ensemble and video projections,
Joyce’s Dubliners sing about life, love and angst.  Noon at the Ellen Stewart Theatre @ La Mama, 74A E. 4th St.  Feel like a musical comedy based on “The Brady Bunch,”
“The Partridge Family” and the works of Shakespeare? Stick
around for “The Bardy Bunch,” by Stephen Garvey.  Set in the summer of 1974, the show features the two sit-
com families singing, dancing and killing one another off in
dramatic style.  Ellen Stewart Theatre @ La MaMa at 8:45 p.m., 74A E. 4th
St.  The Festival runs through Aug. 28 with more than 200 events
at venues around town. All tickets are $15 in advance and $18 at
the door. Good luck! Information:  http://fringenyc.org .  (With assistance from Jacob Henkoff. Zinta Lundborg is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 