-- 
Clyfford Still Sale Leaves Christie’s Fuming Over $15 Million

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-08-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/rare-clyfford-still-sale-leaves-christie-s-fuming-over-lost-15-million.html
The chance to sell four paintings by
the late painter Clyfford Still, whose fanatical control of his
work made sales rare, has favored one of the two major auction
houses and left the other angry.  The city of Denver, where the Clyfford Still Museum is
opening on Nov. 18, selected  Sotheby’s (BID)  to place the four works
through either a private sale or public auction this fall. The
proceeds would benefit the museum’s endowment. The auction house
guaranteed the museum more than $25 million and could earn as
much as $15 million in commission.  The city rejected the offer of Christie’s International
Plc, which sold a large Still canvas in 2006 for $21.3 million.  “Christie’s made a clear, detailed and timely offer to the
Clyfford Still Museum and city of Denver, and want to be sure
that it is given due consideration,” the company said in a
statement. Christie’s hasn’t filed a formal complaint.  “It was a competitive process that was fair and followed
the city’s contracting procedures,” said Jan Brennan, with the
Denver office of cultural affairs and one of the nine members of
the selection committee.  Still (1904-1980) was an Abstract Expressionist in his
painting and crystal clear in how he wanted his works treated.
He sold very little and frequently rejected exhibition
opportunities. His will stipulated that the estate be given in
its entirety to a U.S. city willing to establish a permanent
museum housing his work alone.  Denver Chosen  In 2004, his wife, Patricia, selected Denver. The city
received Still’s 2,400-piece collection, including 825
paintings. The following year she bequeathed to the city her own
estate, which included her husband’s complete archives.  Sotheby’s and Christie’s pounced on the chance to sell the
four works, which include three completed in the 1940s, one in
1976. The largest painting is about 8 feet by 7 feet. Each
auction house submitted a proposal, outlining “financial terms,
qualification and expertise, the proposed sales approach,
experience with fine-arts sales and with the municipal
entities,” said Brennan.  “This is a unique situation,” she said. “Of course the
financial terms were an important element of the selection
process, but there were other considerations as well.”  The contract will have to be approved by the City Council
in a process starting Aug. 22 that should conclude by the end of
the month, Brennan said.  If a private sale doesn’t take place by Sept. 19, the works
will be included in Sotheby’s Nov. 9 contemporary-art auction
where they can be sold individually, according to the contract.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 