-- 
Treasury 30-Year Yields Poised for Biggest 5-Day Drop Since 2008

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-19T21:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/treasuries-soar-on-signs-of-slower-growth-10-year-yield-nears-record-low.html
Treasury 30-year bond yields had
their biggest weekly drop since the depths of the financial
crisis in December 2008 on concern the U.S. economic recovery is
stalling and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is getting worse.  Yields on five-, seven- and 10-year notes fluctuated a day
after plunging to historic lows.  Government bonds  have rallied
since the  Federal Reserve  pledged this month to keep its target
lending rate at virtually zero until at least mid-2013 and
 Standard & Poor’s  lowered the top U.S. credit rating for the
first time.  “The pace at which the money keeps flowing into the back
end is alarming,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader in New York at
 Societe Generale , one of the 20 primary dealers that trade
directly with the Fed. “It’s the volatility, uncertainty and
comments made by the Fed that rates will be on hold.”  The yield on the 10-year note was unchanged at 2.062
percent at 5:14 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2.125 percent securities due in August 2021
remained at 100 18/32, the same price as yesterday. The yields
dropped as much as six basis points and rose as much as seven
basis points after sliding yesterday to a record low 1.9735
percent.  Treasuries have returned 2.2 percent since S&P lowered the
U.S. credit rating for the first time on Aug. 5 and are up 3.3
percent this month, the most since December 2008, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Treasury Master Index. The
firm’s Global Government Bond Index, which excludes the U.S.,
has increased 2.2 percent in August.  Treasury Yields  A gain in 30-year bonds pushed yields down three basis
points to 3.39 percent. They had a weekly drop of 34 basis
points, the most since tumbling 49 basis points during the five
days ended Dec. 19, 2008. Yields on five- and seven-year notes
were little changed today after falling yesterday to record lows
of 0.79 percent and 1.31 percent.  The Treasury will sell $35 billion in two-year notes, the
same amount of five-year debt and $29 billion of seven-year
notes in auctions beginning Aug. 23. The amounts are the same as
last month’s offerings.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings in Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter
options maturing in two- to 30 years, rose to 100.30, up from
87.80 on Aug. 17.  “It’s a choppy market,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government
bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
 Connecticut . “There’s been a fair amount of price volatility
overnight with little information expected today to guide
trading direction.”  Fourth Weekly Gain  Benchmark 10-year notes had a fourth weekly gain after
reports yesterday showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region unexpectedly contracted in August by the most in more
than two years and consumer prices excluding food and energy
rose last month at the slowest pace since April.  U.S. regulators are stepping up scrutiny of American
operations of Europe’s largest banks on concern the euro
region’s sovereign-debt crisis may lead to funding problems, the
Wall Street Journal reported yesterday. The New York Fed has
been holding talks with the lenders and sought information about
their access to funds, said the newspaper, citing people it
didn’t identify.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley said in response
to audience questions yesterday after an address in Newark,  New
Jersey , that the central bank always keeps an eye on the
performance of U.S. and foreign banks, not monitoring one group
more than the other.  ‘At Worst, Mixed’  Dudley said today in remarks in Lyndhurst, New Jersey, that
America’s economic performance is “at worst, mixed,” with
negative news offset by loosening credit, firmer retail sales
and stronger bank balance sheets.  Cleveland Fed President  Sandra Pianalto  said today in
Columbus,  Ohio , that weak economic growth warranted a pledge to
hold the target rate for overnight lending between banks at zero
to 0.25 percent until at least the middle of 2013.  “My latest forecast is for the economy to grow at a rate
of about 2 percent this year, and about 3 percent in each of the
next two years,” she said. “Our economy has to grow at about a
2 1/2 percent clip just to absorb new labor force entrants and
to keep the  unemployment rate  from rising.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks at an economic
conference next week in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  The European Commission said it may present draft
legislation on euro bonds to help contain the debt crisis when
completing a report on the feasibility of common debt sales. The
commission, the EU’s regulatory arm in Brussels, earlier this
year opposed such a step because of German-led objections.  European Proposals  “The report will, if appropriate, be accompanied by
legislative proposals,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in a written response to a European
Parliament question.  The previous record low for the 10-year note yield was set
on Aug. 9 as the Fed committed to leaving benchmark rates
unchanged after S&P cut the U.S. credit rating to AA+ from AAA
four days earlier, citing the political failure to cut U.S.
deficits. Before that, the 10-year yield slid to a record in
December 2008 amid the worst economy since World War II, credit-
market losses exceeding $1 trillion and the biggest drop in the
 S&P 500 Index  since 1931.  A 3.3 percent return on Treasuries in August would be the
biggest since  U.S. debt  increased 3.5 percent during the
financial crisis in December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  