-- 
Russia’s Renaissance Capital Plans Expansion in East Africa as IPOs Rise

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-08-19T10:52:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/renaissance-capital-plans-rwanda-office-as-initial-public-offerings-grow.html
Renaissance Capital, the Russian
brokerage half-owned by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , said it
will open an office in  Rwanda  as the number of initial public
offerings in the East African nation increases.  RenCap, as the Moscow-based company is known, was a
transaction adviser in the December IPO of Brassieries et
Limonaderies du Rwanda SA, the Rwandan unit of  Heineken NV (HEIA) , and
the sale of shares by Bank of Kigali Ltd., Rwanda’s biggest
lender by assets, which closed last month.  “We are bound to see more in the next few months,”
Patrick Mweheire, RenCap’s chief executive officer for  East
Africa , said in an interview yesterday in Nairobi, the Kenyan
capital. “We are going to open an office in Kigali by the end
of this year; we are already looking for space.”  Rwanda’s government plans to sell shares in six companies
over the next three years as part of a plan to attract foreign
investors, the country’s regulator, the Capital Market Advisory
Council, said in April. Among the companies preparing to list
are MTN Rwanda, a unit of  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,  Africa ’s biggest
mobile-phone company; Commercial Bank of Rwanda; Sonarwa
Insurance and other businesses partly owned by the government.  The three companies that trade on the Rwanda Stock Exchange
are Bralirwa, as the Heinken unit is known,  Nation Media Group
Ltd. (NMG) , East Africa’s biggest media company, and KCB Rwanda Ltd.,
a unit of  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB)  The latter two were cross-
listed from the  Nairobi Stock Exchange  in November 2010 and June
2009 respectively.  Economic Growth  Rwanda doubled the size of its economy in the nine years to
2010 as it recovers from a genocide in which 800,000 mainly
ethnic Tutsis died in 1994. Growth this year may exceed the
government’s 7 percent forecast because of improved grain output
and rising export revenue, central bank Governor Claver Gatete
said Aug. 9.  “So far everything is very predictable in Rwanda, mostly
because of the political system put in place by President Paul Kagame,” Ben Nyamweya, an analyst at Nairobi-based Isis  Kenya 
Investment Management Ltd. said in a phone interview today.
Still, the lack of a clear successor and the threat of a global
economic slowdown do pose risks, he said.  Regional Expansion  RenCap, whose East African headquarters is in Nairobi,
became the third-biggest investment bank by value of
transactions in Kenya in the first half of this year, compared
with 13th a year earlier, Mweheire said. Net income grew to 173
million shillings ($1.86 million), compared with a loss of 34
million shillings a year earlier, as brokerage revenue surged 80
percent, he said.  “We have made a concerted effort to build our brokerage
business,” Mweheire said. “On the investment banking side,
there hasn’t been an IPO in Kenya since 2008 so we made an
effort to build a regional business.”  The company is considering opening an office in Kampala,
the capital of neighboring  Uganda , next year, he said.  Renaissance bid 251 million shillings for a Kenyan stock-
broking license in August 2007. The permit was previously owned
by Francis Thuo & Partners Ltd., a Kenyan brokerage declared
insolvent in March 2007.  RenCap is a transaction adviser for the initial public
offering of Onatel, the state-owned Burundian fixed-line and
mobile-phone company, and the sale of shares in a bank in the
Democratic Republic of Congo, Mweheire said. He didn’t provide
further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 