-- 
Renny Harlin’s Russian Baddies; John Sayles’s ‘Amigo’: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/renny-harlin-s-russian-baddies-john-sayles-s-amigo-movies.html
The phony Russian accents in “ 5
Days of War ” sound like bad imitations of Boris and Natasha,
the Cold War villains in the old Rocky & Bullwinkle cartoons.  Authenticity isn’t foremost in Renny Harlin’s silly,
simpleminded film about journalists covering the 2008 Russia-
Georgia war who try to reunite a stranded Georgian teacher
(Emmanuelle Chriqui) with her family.  Harlin, director of “Die Hard 2,”knows how to blow things
up, but he and screenwriters Mikko Alanne and David Battle don’t
do people with anything approaching subtlety.  All the journalists -- including a fearless TV reporter
(Rupert Friend), his resourceful cameraman (Richard Coyle) and a
wily correspondent (a portly Val Kilmer) -- are stock figures
straight from a “Front Page” newsroom.  The rival combatants are, for the most part, neatly divided
into good and evil. Captain Rezo Avaliani (Johnathan Schaech) is
a selfless Georgian fighting for his country’s freedom, while
Colonel Alexandr Demidov (Rade Sherbedgia) is a ruthless Russian
whose troops shoot villagers and steal their animals. (The mercy
he shows at the end of the film is highly implausible.)  Then there’s Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili, a
slick U.S.-style politician played by Andy Garcia. I don’t know
what’s more ridiculous, Garcia’s stilted accent or the hokey
scenes with his American political adviser.  The war was much more complicated than the version depicted
in the movie, which was shot in  Georgia  and has a heavy pro-
Georgia slant. Human-rights groups concluded that both sides
committed atrocities against civilians.  The subject deserves a serious dramatic treatment.  “5 Days of War,” from Anchor Bay Films, has opened in  New
York . Rating: *  ‘Amigo’  John Sayles, who has made movies about the 1919 Black Sox
scandal and a 1920 shootout between coal miners and union
busters in  West Virginia , tackles another historic event from
the early 20th century in “ Amigo .”  Set during the Philippine-U.S. war in 1900, it’s the story
of Rafael, a village mayor (Joel Torre) pressured by U.S. forces
to help track down guerrilla fighters led by his brother Simon
(Ronnie Lazaro).  “Amigo” is a bold film, and not just because Sayles
sympathizes with the Filipinos. It’s also rare for a U.S.
director to make a film with mostly Spanish dialogue.  Chris Cooper , who made his feature debut in Sayles’s
“Matewan,” plays a hard-nosed U.S. colonel whose soldiers
torture the mayor with an old form of waterboarding to make him
reveal the rebels’ hideout. Garret Dillahunt portrays a more
sympathetic American officer, and Yu Vazquez is a conniving
Spanish friar.  Like most of Sayles’s films, “Amigo” requires patience
and concentration. It moves slowly (bordering on lethargic at
times) and refuses to glorify violence. But if you’re in the
mood for an intelligent drama about an overlooked war, “Amigo”
shows what “5 Days of War” might have been.  “Amigo,” from Variance Films, has opened inin New York,
 Los Angeles ,  San Francisco ,  San Diego  and  Seattle . Rating: **1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 