-- 
Retailers, Restaurants Raise Prices to Offset U.S. Labor Costs

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-08-19T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/retailers-restaurants-raise-prices-to-offset-u-s-labor-costs.html
Retailers and restaurants are
raising consumer prices to help compensate for higher labor
costs, which increased the most in almost three years during the
second quarter.  Fifty-three percent of these companies with annual sales of
$10 million to $500 million have lifted prices during the last
12 months, up from 32 percent a year ago, according to a
quarterly survey by  Barlow Research Associates . This comes as
U.S. inflation excluding food and energy costs accelerated at an
annual pace of 1.8 percent in July, the biggest such gain in
more than a year, according to Labor Department data released
yesterday.  Unit labor costs for nonfarm businesses rose 1.3 percent in
the quarter ended June 30 compared with a year ago, as hourly
compensation rose while productivity fell, Bureau of Labor
Statistics data show.  “This is an early sign that even with high unemployment,
labor costs are starting to pick up, giving companies an
incentive to raise prices,” said Peter Newland, an economist at
Barclays Capital Inc. in  New York . Labor costs are the biggest
component of business expenses, he said.  Sixty-one percent of the 149 public and private retailers
and restaurants in the Barlow survey said they plan more price
increases during the next 12 months. This indicates a
“significant change” in attitude from the previous year, when
41 percent had such plans, according to John Barlow, president
and founder of the Minneapolis-based business.  “Middle-market companies have been aggressive in
increasing prices because they’re trying to protect profit
margins,” he said.  Highest Level  The average hourly earnings of all U.S. private-sector
employees rose 2.3 percent in July from a year ago, the highest
level since October 2009, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. While the  unemployment rate  fell to 9.1 percent in
July from 9.2 percent in June, it has remained above 9 percent
for 25 of the past 27 months.  Christopher & Banks Corp. (CBK)  raised prices by about 20 percent
in May and June, while  Casual Male Retail Group Inc. (CMRG)  bumped
prices up 5 percent in the first quarter and made more changes
in the second, according to the companies. Meanwhile, diners at
 BJ’s Restaurants Inc. (BJRI)  and  Famous Dave’s of America Inc. (DAVE)  will pay
about 2 percent more for some menu items, the companies said.  Federal Reserve policy makers have acknowledged the recent
acceleration in consumer prices. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  has  lifted  its forecast for core personal consumption
expenditure inflation, the Fed’s preferred measure, to about 1.7
percent from about 1.2 percent in January. The annual rate in
June was 1.3 percent.  ‘Seen Acceptance’  Even with higher costs for labor and commodities, Plymouth,
Minnesota-based Christopher & Banks has “seen acceptance” of
its higher-priced women’s apparel, President and Chief Executive
Officer Larry Barenbaum said on a June 30 conference call.  BJ’s Restaurants intentionally kept most of its pricing
power “in reserve” during the past few years before
introducing increases of 2 percent in June 2010, Gerald Deitchle, chairman, president and chief executive officer, said
on a July 21 conference call. The  Huntington Beach , California-
based chain is boosting prices by 2 percent for the period
ending Sept. 27 and may make further changes in the fall.  “We do have the ability” to raise prices and have them
“accepted by our guests,” Deitchle said.  Smaller retailers and restaurants, with annual sales
between $100,000 and $10 million, also are lifting prices,
though their plans are less aggressive than their middle-market
peers, Barlow said.  Pricing Plans  Thirty-nine percent of the 243 smaller companies in the
survey have boosted prices in the past four quarters, while 44
percent plan to do so in the next 12 months, according to Barlow
data. This compares with 40 percent and 36 percent,
respectively, a year ago. Barlow conducted its surveys in July
for the quarter ending Sept. 30.  Small companies tend to be “price followers,”
particularly if their goods or services aren’t very
differentiated, according to Lawrence Creatura, a Rochester, New
York-based portfolio manager at Federated Investors Inc.  “Small firms tend to observe market prices before changing
them, and there is somewhat of a lag effect,” said Creatura,
who manages the Federated Clover Small Value Fund. “It doesn’t
mean they won’t increase prices, they will just do it later.”  Cache Inc. (CACH)  “selectively” raised prices on women’s apparel
styles that are unique to the New York-based company and set it
apart from its competition, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Reinckens said on a July 28 conference call. The company is
planning “slightly higher” increases in the second half of the
year, he said.  No ‘Material Push-Backs’  The changes so far “have not met with material push-backs
from our customers,” Reinckens said.  That may not be the case at  Kirkland’s Inc. (KIRK) , which sells
home accessories and gifts. The Nashville, Tennessee-based
retailer plans to raise prices in the next year, though it must
balance these changes with a “reluctant customer,” President
and Chief Executive Officer Robert Alderson said on a May 20
conference call. “I think we’re trying to be very selective, if
we do have price increases,” he said.  Other companies also may face resistance from consumers who
are weary from continued high unemployment, Newland said.
Personal consumption adjusted for inflation slowed to an annual
rate of 1.8 percent in June, down from 3.2 percent in November
2010, according to data from the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  Falling Confidence  Meanwhile,  consumer confidence  fell in August to the lowest
level since March 2009, during the 18-month recession, which
could further hamper spending. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index’s monthly expectations gauge dropped to minus 34 from
minus 22 in July.  The success of price increases also depends on
circumstances that may be out of the companies’ control,
including discounting by competitors, Barlow said.  Even so, retailers and restaurants are beginning to turn
the corner in addressing the cost pressures of the past few
years, according to Newland.  “We’re now in an environment in which firms are able to
push up prices even though the growth environment remains
moderate at best,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloombert.net 
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  