-- 
RIM Gains 100% in Sale Value on Google-Motorola Tie: Real M&A

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r ,   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-08-19T20:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/rim-rallies-100-in-sale-value-as-google-motorola-lures-samsung-real-m-a.html
The biggest wave of deals for
mobile-phone assets in more than a decade may help  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s shareholders almost double their money in a sale.  Led by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s takeover of Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. and Nortel Networks’ patent auction, acquisitions of
wireless and telecommunications equipment makers may top $27
billion this year and approach the record in 1999, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. After Google agreed this month to
pay a dot-com era premium for Motorola and its patents, RIM,
maker of the BlackBerry, may now be worth almost $25 billion, an
estimate from Morgan Keegan & Co. showed. The shares surged as
much as 8.1 percent today.  Once valued at $83 billion, RIM fell 83 percent through
yesterday as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and Google’s Android platform
lured away smartphone customers. With Google gaining Motorola’s
handset business, RIM may now attract interest from Samsung
Electronics Co. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Stewart Capital said. A
buyer would get a smartphone maker that is still dominant among
corporate clients, runs its own operating system and offers
greater security with its own e-mail servers. Paying twice RIM’s
value of $13.5 billion would still be a discount to rivals.  “It gives a potential acquirer scale and share in a market
that’s rapidly being dominated by Google and Apple,” said
 Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1 billion as chief investment
officer at Stewart Capital in Indiana,  Pennsylvania . Buying RIM
makes sense for Samsung because “Google all of a sudden has
become a competitor,” he said.  “It might be valuable for someone like Microsoft that’s
trying to make inroads into the handheld space,” he said.  Relative Value  Titus Kim, a spokesman at Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung,
declined to comment on whether it would consider buying RIM.  Peter Wootton, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, said the company doesn’t comment on rumor or
speculation. Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman at Waterloo, Ontario-
based RIM, also said it doesn’t comment on rumor or speculation.  RIM’s shares rose 3.6 percent to $26.69 after climbing as
high as $27.85. The gain was the third largest in the Nasdaq-100
Index even as U.S. stocks fell for a fourth straight week.  Since peaking in June 2008, RIM’s market value plummeted
almost $70 billion through yesterday. The decline in the stock
is the biggest among communications-equipment providers worth at
least $10 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Over the same span, Cupertino, California-based Apple has
doubled to become the world’s second-largest company with a
market capitalization of $339 billion, the data show.  RIM, which introduced a new lineup of BlackBerry phones
this month, a year after its last new devices, is losing out as
consumers spurn its aging models for iPhones and handsets
running Android software.  Android Platform  Cheaper Android phones are also making inroads in  Latin
America ,  Asia  and  Europe , threatening the popularity of RIM’s
less expensive BlackBerry models such as the Curve.  RIM’s share of  the global smartphone market  fell to 12
percent in the second quarter from 19 percent a year earlier,
according to Gartner Inc. Google’s Android became the leading
mobile-phone operating system in the same period, rising to 43
percent, while Apple climbed to 18 percent.  About two years ago, RIM controlled more than half the
North American market, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  While Jim Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis, RIM’s co-chief
executive officers, said in June that their commitment to RIM is
“stronger than ever,”  Mountain View , California-based Google’s
$12.5 billion deal for Motorola may bolster RIM’s value to
potential bidders.  Highest Premium  Google agreed to buy Motorola for $40 a share, or 73
percent more than the Libertyville, Illinois-based company’s 20-
day trading average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the
highest premium for a wireless-equipment takeover greater than
$500 million since 1999, the data show.  A group led by Apple paid $4.5 billion for Nortel’s patents
in June. The auction ended after 19 rounds with a price that was
five times more than Google’s bid before the process began.  With wireless technologies becoming more complex and
smartphone sales forecast to double by 2015, takeovers and asset
sales in the industry have increased as handset makers try to
gain leverage over their competitors.  The value of deals in the wireless and telecommunications
equipment industry is on pace to reach the highest level since
$30.2 billion in transactions were announced in 1999, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Based on the implied revenue
multiple Google paid for Motorola’s smartphone business, RIM
could be worth $47 a share, or an 82 percent premium, said  Tavis McCourt , an analyst at Morgan Keegan in Nashville,  Tennessee .  William Blair & Co.’s Anil Doradla says RIM could get even
more in a takeover because of the Google-Motorola deal.  ‘100 Percent Premium’  “Giving RIM even a 100 percent premium over the market cap
shouldn’t be too much of a problem,” Doradla, an analyst in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  At $52 a share, about double RIM’s price yesterday, the
company would be valued at more than $27 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. At that level, RIM would sell for 10.2 times
next year’s earnings, less than the average communications
equipment provider, which trades at 11 times profit.  RIM’s patents alone could be worth as much as $5 billion,
based on what Apple and Google each paid for patents owned by
Nortel and Motorola, respectively, according to Shaw Wu, an
analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  San Francisco .  “It’s got to the point that you have two titans” in Apple
and Google, he said in a telephone interview. RIM is “almost
fighting the impossible war. The best outcome for RIM
shareholders is to get acquired,” he said.  Samsung, Microsoft  Analysts at Morgan Keegan, William Blair and Detwiler
Fenton & Co. say that Samsung, the maker of Galaxy smartphones,
would be the company most likely to buy RIM.  Samsung, which has struggled to sell handsets based on its
own software, uses Google’s Android platform in its mobile
phones. The Google-Motorola deal may increase Samsung’s concern
Google will become a competitor in the handset business and give
Motorola earlier access to the newest Android technology,
according to Morgan Keegan’s McCourt.  “The only way to get you out of this game of being
completely beholden to operating system vendors is to own your
own operating system,” he said. “There is only one company in
the world left that has its own operating system with enough
users to be relevant and that’s RIM.”  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, could buy
RIM to build its smartphone share and gain a device to
complement its Windows Phone 7 platform, said Paul Taylor,
Toronto-based chief investment officer at BMO Harris Private
Banking, which oversees $14.5 billion and owns RIM shares.  Market Share  Microsoft’s share of mobile operating systems fell more
than half to 1.6 percent in the second quarter from 4.9 percent
a year earlier, according to Gartner. The slump came after
Microsoft already failed with its Kin smartphone, scrapping the
model last year after less than two months on the market.  “It would make sense for Microsoft if they want to really
move their operating system forward,”  Michael Yoshikami , chief
executive officer and founder of YCMNet Advisors, which manages
$1.1 billion in Walnut Creek,  California , said in a telephone
interview. “Windows 7 is losing market share.”  Still,  Matt McCormick , a  money manager  at Cincinnati-based
Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which oversees $4 billion, said buyers may
not be willing to pay a significant premium for RIM.  “The real variable is what are you getting and what are
you paying for it,” he said in a telephone interview. “You
could see someone like a Samsung or Microsoft take a look at it,
but if you equate it to housing -- you have a mansion that’s
come under disrepair in a neighborhood that’s very volatile.”  Vested Interests  “If RIM is going to sell, it’s because they’re feeling
forced to do it and those sales never go well for the seller,”
McCormick said.  Microsoft also has a partnership to provide Espoo, Finland-
based  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones by
volume, with its Window Phone 7 software. That makes it unlikely
Microsoft would buy RIM, according to Stephen Patel, an analyst
at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco.  Any takeover may need the approval of Canadian regulators.
Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s government in November rejected
Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion hostile takeover
of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
after the province said the sale would cut jobs and tax revenue.  RIM’s co-CEOs are also the company’s biggest shareholders,
with Balsillie holding a 5.9 percent stake and Lazaridis
controlling 5.4 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘A Better Omelet’  “Our commitment to RIM is stronger than ever and we know
what we have to do jointly to accomplish and take RIM to the
next stage of growth and success,” Lazaridis said on a June
conference call. “While I can’t promise that there won’t be
bumps in the road ahead, I can assure you that Jim and I have
never been more committed to the business and that our interests
remain closely aligned with those of our shareholders.”  Lazaridis, who invented the BlackBerry to handle mobile e-
mail, has shared the role of CEO with Balsillie since 1992. They
are also both co-chairmen of RIM.  For Ronald Gruia, an analyst at Frost & Sullivan, RIM still
makes for an attractive takeover target.  “Maybe you could do a better omelet with the ingredients
RIM has,” he said in a telephone interview. “They are still a
player to beat in the enterprise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at +1-212-617-7884 or  pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 