-- 
Inflation May Embolden Opponents of Fed’s Moves to Spur Growth

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a ,   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-08-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/rising-prices-may-embolden-fed-dissenters-in-opposing-moves-to-spur-growth.html
Signs that consumer prices are
rising even as the  U.S. economy  slows may delay additional moves
by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to spur growth.  The Fed chairman, who is scheduled to speak at a  Jackson
Hole , Wyoming, conference on Aug. 26, used the annual gathering
of economists last year to hint at a second round of so-called
quantitative easing, in which the Fed purchased $600 billion of
Treasuries from November 2010 to June.  Investors, such as  Barton Biggs , managing partner and co-
founder of Traxis Partners LP, have called for the Fed to embark
on a new round of asset purchases. Yesterday’s announcement that
the  consumer price index  rose 0.5 percent from June, more than
twice the 0.2 percent median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, may embolden Fed policy makers who oppose
further such measures.  “It’s hard to say we have stagflation, but we do have
inflation too high for the Fed to do QE3,” said  Marc Chandler ,
global head of currency strategy for Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York.  The economy’s need for additional help was underscored by
the Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index dropping to minus
30.7 this month, the lowest since March 2009, when the economy
was in a recession.  Told Congress  Bernanke on July 13 told Congress the Fed is prepared to
take additional action, including buying more government bonds,
if the economy appeared in danger of stalling or if deflation
pressures emerged. The Fed on Aug. 9 cracked the door wider to
such action when it offered a much more downbeat assessment of
the economy. That same day, the Fed pledged to hold a key
 interest rate  at a record low near zero through mid-2013 to help
bolster the recovery.  Rising inflation may intensify debate among policy makers
after three regional Fed bank presidents voted against last
week’s decision, the most dissent in almost 19 years. The
dissenters were Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser ,
Dallas Fed chief Richard Fisher and Narayana Kocherlakota of
Minneapolis.  Paul Dales , senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics Ltd.
in Toronto, said the inflation picture will likely stay the
Fed’s hand. The core CPI was 0.9 percent on the eve of the
Jackson Hole meeting last year and was expected to decline,
Dales said. Now, it stands at an annualized 1.8 percent and may
continue rising, he added.  “We probably won’t get any more significant policy
stimulus this year, but early next year once it becomes clear
that core inflation begins to fall back, then QE3 could well be
on the table again,” he said.  Recession Fears  Fears of a new recession may prove overstated. Chandler
said he expects the economy to grow at a faster rate in the
current quarter than it did in the previous three months, when
it rose at an annual rate of 1.3 percent.  New York  Fed President  William Dudley  said in a speech in
Newark,  New Jersey , the risk of a renewed recession remains
“quite low.” And Biggs told Bloomberg Television: “We’re in a
stagnant but not collapsing economy.”  Another report showed fewer Americans on average filed
claims for  unemployment benefits  over the past month, indicating
the job market is holding up for now.  Reports yesterday also showed the residential real-estate
market continues to stagnate and consumers’ economic
expectations plunged. Additionally, the index of leading
indicators climbed, boosted by an increase in  money supply  that
may reflect a flight to safety.  Figures from the Labor Department yesterday showed the
average number of workers filing applications for jobless
benefits over the past four weeks dropped to 402,500, the lowest
since April 16. The weekly readings, which tend to be more
volatile, showed claims climbed by 9,000 to 408,000 in the
period ended Aug. 13, the highest in a month.  ‘Not Recession Material’  These data are “not recession material,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd., in New York. The plunge in stocks in recent weeks
“could start to worry businesses enough for them to lay off
workers,” Rupkey said. Nonetheless, claims show “this is not
happening yet, but we need to watch closely for the next couple
of weeks.”  Consumer prices were pushed higher by rising costs for fuel
that have since retreated, and by an increase in food expenses.  Excluding energy and food costs, which are usually more
volatile, the so-called core gauge rose over the past year to
the greater-than-projected 1.8 percent. It was the biggest 12-
month gain in more than a year.  The Fed’s informal target range for longer-term  core
inflation  is 1.7 percent to 2 percent as measured by a Commerce
Department gauge tied to consumer spending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
David Lynch at 
 Dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  