-- 
Roche Seeks $6.8 Billion Win on Heart Pill Where Pfizer Failed

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-08-19T07:05:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/roche-seeks-6-8-billion-win-on-heart-pill-where-pfizer-failed.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  may get the first
signs at a cardiology conference this month that the Swiss
drugmaker can garner $6.8 billion in sales with a pill to combat
 heart disease  by raising so-called good cholesterol.  The drug, dalcetrapib, may reap that much in annual revenue
by 2020 if it works in patients who have had heart attacks,
estimates  Gbola Amusa , a UBS AG analyst in  London . He gives the
pill a one-in-four chance of succeeding.  That’s by no means a sure thing. Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche, known for cancer medicines such as Avastin and Herceptin,
is venturing into a new area. The basic concept was dealt a
setback in May when a study found an  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  drug to
raise good cholesterol didn’t prevent heart attacks.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
had to scrap its version in 2006 after patients died.  “There’s excitement,” said Chris Cannon, a cardiologist
at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in  Boston , in a telephone
interview. “We’ve been thinking about this for decades. On the
other hand, there’s renewed caution and realization that it’s
hard to make things work.”  Roche will present results at the  European Society of
Cardiology  conference in Paris from a pair of trials that look
at the drug’s effect on blood vessel function and see whether it
can shrink artery-clogging plaque.  Called  dal-Vessel  and dal-Plaque, respectively, the two
trials won’t answer the more pressing question of whether
Roche’s drug helps keep patients alive and blocks heart attacks
and strokes, Cannon said. That’s being addressed in a bigger
study known as dal-Outcomes.  Results in 2012  Interim results from the 15,800-patient trial are expected
early next year, with a first set of final results by December
2012, Pascal Soriot, Roche’s pharmaceutical unit head, said in a
conference call with analysts on July 21.  Still, Cannon said, “if plaque shrinks, that is a huge win
and very exciting, and everyone is going to be jumping up and
down saying, ‘Hurray, this class works.’” An abstract of data
for the dal-Plaque study is scheduled to be posted on the
conference website tomorrow. Dal-Vessel is due to be presented
in an oral session on Aug. 28.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , based in Indianapolis, and Merck & Co. of
New York have similar drugs in development aimed at increasing
good cholesterol, or HDL, in the bloodstream.  HDL flushes fat deposits from arteries to the liver to be
eliminated from the body. By contrast, statins such as
simvastatin and Pfizer’s Lipitor, the best-selling drug in the
world, decrease levels of bad cholesterol, or LDL, which blocks
arteries and leads to heart attacks.  Multiple Blockbusters  If both smaller Roche dalcetrapib trials are successful,
they could increase the probability of success in the larger
study, UBS’s Amusa said in a telephone interview. If the best
case occurs, and HDL-raising drugs prove as successful as
statins in larger studies, the market could rival the size of
that for cholesterol-lowering medicines and produce multiple
drugs with sales of more than $1 billion a year, he said.  “It’s very difficult for this drug to be anything but
either an outright failure or a mega-blockbuster,” he said. He
has a “neutral” rating on Roche’s shares. Peak sales may be
higher than his forecast if the medicine sees use in the bigger
pool of high-risk patients who haven’t had a heart attack yet,
Amusa said.  Interest is higher in this month’s results from the smaller
trials because of the Pfizer history, Roche Chief Executive
Officer Severin Schwan said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in July.  ‘Rewriting the Textbooks’  “It’s a high-risk project, because what we want to know is
that HDL has a positive effect,” Schwan said. “Nobody has
proven this yet. I always say dalcetrapib is the biggest proof-
of-concept study we ever did.”  In a conference call with analysts in 2010, Schwan said the
drug had the potential of “rewriting the textbooks in
cardiovascular medicine” and named the pill among a group of
medicines with potential for more than 5 billion francs ($6.3
billion) in sales, according to the call transcript. He declined
in July to elaborate on the sales potential for the drug.  Roche may have good reason to be cautious. Pfizer abandoned
its pill to raise HDL, torcetrapib, five years ago after it
unexpectedly raised increased death rates even as it raised
levels of good cholesterol. The  New York  drugmaker had invested
$1 billion in the drug to stem the loss of revenue when Lipitor
loses patent protection this year. Since then Pfizer has cut
jobs, closed research labs and bought Wyeth for $68 billion in
2009 to help plug the gap to be left by Lipitor.  ‘Real Concern’  Roche decided to continue with dalcetrapib after Pfizer’s
failure because of experiments showing the two drugs don’t work
the same way and don’t share the same toxicity, Alexander Klauser, a spokesman for Roche, said in an e-mail.  “Step one with your drug is to make sure it doesn’t kill
anyone, and with this class, given the experience with
torcetrapib, safety’s been a real concern,” said Jack Scannell,
a London-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  Meanwhile, in May the  National Institutes of Health  stopped
a study of another HDL-raising drug, Abbott’s Niaspan, after it
was linked to strokes and failed to reduce heart attacks.
Niaspan works to raise good cholesterol in a different way than
the Roche and Merck drugs, and it has different side effects,
said Graeme Green, a London-based analyst for Decision
Resources, in a telephone interview.  Roche helped alleviate some concerns by saying in July that
the Outcomes trial had continued after an initial interim safety
analysis had been completed, Bernstein’s Scannell said. He rates
Roche shares “market perform.”  Merck’s Drug  Cannon, the Brigham and Women’s cardiologist, agreed. The
dalcetrapib trial set some safety concerns to rest by
progressing further than  Illuminate , the torcetrapib trial
Pfizer had to abandon in 2006, he said. Cannon is involved in
studies of Merck’s good-cholesterol pill anacetrapib.  A study presented in November at the American Heart
Association meeting in  Chicago  showed the Merck drug raised HDL,
lowered LDL and left patients with fewer heart complications.
The study numbers were small though, with just 1,623 patients.  Doctors have “great hope, but we simply have to wait and
see what the trials show,” Cannon said.  Many drugs have looked good in earlier trials and then
failed in the final studies needed to get approval, said  Steven Nissen , the Cleveland Clinic head of cardiology who helped test
Pfizer’s unsuccessful good-cholesterol pill.  “The graveyard of drugs is littered with examples,” said
Nissen, who’s now working on Lilly’s HDL drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  