-- 
Clemens Should Face Retrial on Perjury Charges, U.S. Prosecutors Argue

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-08-19T20:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/roger-clemens-should-face-retrial-on-perjury-charges-u-s-prosecutor-says.html
Former Major League Baseball pitcher
 Roger Clemens  should be tried again on charges that he lied to
Congress, U.S. prosecutors argued, saying government conduct
that led to a mistrial was simply a mistake.  Prosecutors in  Washington  today asked U.S. District Judge
 Reggie Walton  to reject Clemens’s bid to have the indictment
against him dismissed. Walton ended the first trial on July 14
after prosecutors showed jurors a video clip containing
information he had ruled couldn’t be part of the government’s
perjury and obstruction case.  “The government accepts responsibility for its oversight,
and regrets the burdens that error has placed on this court and
defendant,” U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr. wrote in a
brief. “There was no intention to run afoul of any court
ruling.”  Clemens, 49, in a motion filed last month argued that under
the U.S. Constitution he can’t face a jury twice for the same
crime. His lawyer,  Rusty Hardin , alleged that the experienced
prosecutors on the case intentionally provoked the mistrial
after setbacks cast doubt on whether Clemens could be convicted.  “The record refutes the defendant’s claim,” prosecutors
said in today’s filing. “The government’s case was -- and is --
strong. Nothing had happened thus far at trial that would have
provided the government with any motive to cause a mistrial.”  Mistake Not Misconduct  The presentation of the barred evidence was a mistake, not
misconduct, prosecutors said.  Walton raised the possibility that the government might not
be able to bring the former New York Yankees pitcher before a
new jury when he stopped the trial. He said at the time that he
would have to assess whether the government, “having
precipitated this mistrial,” could retry Clemens or whether
“re-prosecution is barred by double jeopardy.”  “Because the video clip disclosure reflected an oversight,
the double jeopardy bar does not apply,” Machen wrote. He also
said the defense team is partly to blame, because they had the
video clips “days prior” and “had not reviewed them.”  Walton scheduled a Sept. 2 hearing to decide whether the
seven-time Cy Young Award winner will be tried again.  Clemens is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury in connection with a
congressional probe of ballplayers’ alleged use of performance-
enhancing drugs. If convicted on all charges, he faces as long
as 30 years in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  House Statements  The charges stem from Clemens’s statements to the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in February 2008,
in an interview with committee staff and later at a public
hearing. Clemens, under oath, denied ever using anabolic
steroids or human growth hormone, according to the indictment.  Walton said that prosecutors violated a court order when
they showed the jury of 10 women and two men a video clip of a
2008 congressional hearing where the wife of government witness
 Andy Pettitte  was discussed. Walton ruled earlier that no
references to Laura Pettitte, or an affidavit she gave Congress,
could be made during the government’s case.  At the start of the trial, prosecutors said that Andy Pettitte, a former teammate, would testify about his close
relationship with Clemens and how Clemens told him in 1999 or
2000 that he had used human growth hormone. Clemens told
Congress that Pettitte misheard the conversation.  Limited Evidence  Walton had limited the evidence from other players and
Laura Pettitte, and then prosecutors found themselves unprepared
to address newly discovered evidence that undermined the
credibility of the government’s key witness, Clemens’s former
trainer,  Brian McNamee , Hardin said.  In addition, Walton’s questions about the way Clemens had
been charged led prosecutors to revise their opening statement
to leave out any discussion of what had been “a prominent
alleged obstructive act in the indictment,” Hardin wrote.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 