-- 
Rubber Plunges Most in More Than One Week on Growth Concerns

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-08-19T08:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/rubber-plunges-most-in-more-than-one-week-on-growth-concerns.html
Rubber declined for a fourth day,
tumbling the most in more than a week, amid concerns that a
global economic slowdown may reduce demand for the commodity
used to make tires and gloves.  The January-delivery contract plunged as much as 2.8
percent to 352 yen a kilogram ($4,606 a metric ton), the lowest
level since Aug. 9, before closing at 352.3 yen on the  Tokyo 
Commodity Exchange.  Asian stocks slumped, dragging the region’s benchmark index
to a fourth weekly loss, while oil led commodities lower amid
concern that the U.S. recovery is faltering and  Europe ’s debt
crisis will spread.  “The breakdown of stocks and  oil prices  put pressure on
rubber market,” Gu Jiong, an analyst at commodity broker Yutaka
Shoji Co., said by phone from Tokyo. A downward revision of
global economic growth raised concern that demand for rubber may
weaken, he said.  Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for global growth this
year, citing an “insufficient” response to Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis, weakened confidence and the prospect of fiscal
tightening. The bank predicted an expansion of 3.9 percent, down
from a previous forecast of 4.2 percent. It cut its  China  growth
forecast for next year to 8.7 percent from 9 percent.  China will expand 8.9 percent this year, down from an
earlier forecast of 9.1 percent, Deutsche Bank AG said in a
report dated Aug. 17, citing the “shock” of a U.S. and
European Union slowdown. It lowered its 2012 estimate to 8.3
percent from 8.6 percent.  In  Shanghai , rubber for January delivery dropped 0.8
percent to close at 33,490 yuan ($5,236) a ton on the Shanghai
Futures Exchange.  China  “Worries of an economic slowdown in China continue putting
pressure on rubber prices,” the Rubber Research Institute of
 Thailand  said on its website today. The downside was limited by
a decline in production in the Thai south as rains covered 60
percent of the area, disrupting latex tapping, it said. The
south produces about 80 percent of the country’s supply.  China is battling inflation that accelerated at the fastest
pace in three years last month, Zhao Cheng, an analyst at
Zhongcai Futures Co., said in a report today. “Most Chinese
manufacturers are saddled with high-priced inventory while
having to deal with tight  cash flow , expensive labor and higher
taxes,” he said.  The cash price of Thai rubber declined 0.5 percent to
138.05 baht ($4.62) a kilogram today, according to the Thai
institute.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  