-- 
Seattle Genetics Wins FDA Approval for Lymphoma Treatment

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-08-19T20:45:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/seattle-genetics-wins-fda-approval-for-lymphoma-treatment.html
Seattle Genetics Inc. (SGEN)  won U.S.
approval to sell the first new drug for Hodgkin lymphoma in more
than 30 years.  The drug, Adcetris, also was cleared by the  Food and Drug
Administration  for a rarer cancer known as systemic anaplastic
large cell lymphoma or  ALCL , the agency said today in a
statement. The company said it plans to make the drug available
next week.  The medicine, also known as brentuximab, will be Bothell,
Washington-based Seattle Genetics’ first commercialized drug. It
combines a cancer-targeting antibody with the cell-killing
effects of chemotherapy. The drug is the first approved in the
U.S. for Hodgkin lymphoma since 1977, the agency said.  “Early clinical data suggest that patients who received
Adcetris for Hodgkin lymphoma and systemic anaplastic lymphoma
experienced a significant response to the therapy,”  Richard Pazdur , director of the Office of Oncology Drug Products in the
FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in the
statement.  Sales of the drug may reach $200 million in two years, said
 Jason Kantor , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  San
Francisco . He called that a conservative estimate and said the
market opportunity could be “much bigger.”  “We’re telling people this is a tremendous buying
opportunity,” Kantor said today in a telephone interview.  Seattle Genetics gained $1.09, or 7.8 percent, to $15.04 at
4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.
The shares have gained less than 1 percent this year.  Hodgkin Symptoms  Hodgkin lymphoma will be diagnosed in an estimated 8,830
U.S. patients this year and will cause the death of about 1,300
people, according to the  National Cancer Institute  in Bethesda,
 Maryland . The disease begins in the white-blood cells and most
commonly strikes people from ages 15 to 35 and older than 55.
Symptoms include  weight loss , fever and chronic weakness or
fatigue.  Adcetris uses so-called antibody-drug conjugate technology
developed by Seattle Genetics that targets tumor cells by
attaching monoclonal antibodies to cell killing agents.  “The approval of Adcetris is a result of more than a
decade of research and development by talented scientists and
physicians,” Clay Siegall, Seattle Genetics’ president and
chief executive officer, said today in a statement.  The drug’s approval, 11 days ahead of the FDA’s target
date, is a surprise to investors who were concerned that
negotiations over the drug’s label and postmarketing studies
might delay the FDA’s decision, Kantor said.  ‘Best-Case Scenario’  “People were expecting a very restricted label for who
could use the drug,” he said. “The label that they got is, I
think, a best-case scenario. This is going to be widely
available for relapsed Hodgkin lymphoma and ALCL.”  Systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma accounts for about
3 percent of all non-Hodgkin lymphoma cases in adults and up to
30 percent in children, according to the nonprofit  Lymphoma
Research Foundation  in  New York . The disease can occur in the
skin, lymph nodes or organs throughout the body.  The medicine is approved for Hodgkin lymphoma and ALCL
patients who have failed previous treatments.  Seattle Genetics has exclusive North American marketing
rights to the drug. Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. can sell the drug
elsewhere. They share development costs, except in  Japan  where
Takeda has full responsibility.  The FDA evaluated Adcetris under a six-month priority
review and aimed to make a decision by Aug. 30. While the FDA
typically takes at least 10 months to rule on drug applications,
it grants  priority status  to therapies that may provide major
advances in treatment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  