-- 
SEC’s Document Purging Wasn’t Authorized, Archives Agency Says

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-08-19T14:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/sec-s-document-purging-wasn-t-authorized-archives-agency-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission didn’t have authority to dispose of investigation
documents the agency had been routinely purging since 1993, the
 National Archives and Records Administration  said.  NARA, the Washington-based agency that oversees federal
record-keeping, opened an investigation last year after an SEC
employee claimed the agency was illegally destroying files
pertaining to so-called matters under inquiry, NARA said in a
statement yesterday. The SEC, which NARA said has since halted
the practice, destroyed the documents without approval,
according to the statement.  “While the  National Archives  is satisfied that the
destruction has stopped, NARA remains concerned that the SEC has
been slow in creating records schedules for review and
approval,” NARA said. The inquiry will continue until archives
authorities have approved a plan for treating MUI documents,
Paul Wester, chief records officer for the U.S., said in a
separate Aug. 1 letter to an SEC official.  The allegations originated with Darcy Flynn, a 13-year SEC
veteran, who claimed that the SEC illegally purged more than
9,000 documents from initial probes that never became formal
investigations. Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican,
this week asked SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to respond to Flynn’s
claims by the end of this month.  “We maintain records of our inquiries and they are
available to investigators across the agency,”  John Nester , an
SEC spokesman, said in a statement. “As NARA notes, it works
with federal agencies on a regular basis to resolve allegations
and we are committed to that process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  