-- 
Shell Says Divers Closed Relief Valve in North Sea Oil Leak

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-08-19T15:41:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/shell-says-divers-closed-relief-valve-in-north-sea-oil-leak-2-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  said divers
closed a relief valve at its Gannet Alpha platform off Scotland
that was leaking oil into the  North Sea  from a flow pipe in the
U.K.’s largest spill in 11 years.  Oil had been seeping a rate of less than a barrel a day,
Shell said in an e-mailed statement. The company will monitor
the flowline to ensure it remains sealed, it said.  The company spotted the leak after seeing a sheen on the
water on Aug. 10. About 218 metric tons, or 1,300 barrels, of
oil has leaked from the flow line, according to Shell. That
would make it the biggest U.K. spill since 2000, when about 524
tons were recorded, government data available up to 2009 show.  “Closing the valve is a key step,” said Glen Cayley, an
Aberdeen, Scotland-based technical director of Shell’s
exploration and production activities. “It was a careful and
complex operation conducted by skilled divers, with support from
our technical teams onshore. But we will be watching the line
closely over the next 24 hours and beyond.”  Shell is investigating the cause of the leak and will
cooperate with authorities in their investigations, it said.
Surveys so far indicate no impact from the leak on the
environment, Shell said.  “Our work to monitor the impact of the spill on our marine
wildlife continues,”  Scotland ’s Environment Secretary Richard
Lochhead said in a statement. “Initial sensory tests carried
out on fish samples obtained by Marine Scotland’s Scotia vessel
have proved clear and further scientific analysis is now being
carried out. Initial results of the bird survey have also given
no cause for concern.”  The platform, which continues to operate, produced 175,760
tons of oil in 2009, or 3,500 barrels a day, according to the
Department of Energy and Climate Change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  