-- 
SinoTech Energy Sued by Investor in U.S. After Shares Plunge 42% in Week

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/sinotech-investor-sues-in-u-s-after-shares-plummet-42-1-.html
SinoTech Energy Ltd. (CTE) , a provider of
equipment to boost oilfield production, was sued in the U.S. by
an investor claiming securities violations after its shares
plummeted.  Investor Bhushan Athale alleges that Beijing-based
SinoTech’s financial reports were “inaccurate because the
nature, size and scope of the company’s business was materially
exaggerated,” according to a complaint filed yesterday in
 Manhattan  federal court. Athale is seeking to sue on behalf of
buyers of the company’s American depositary shares since its
November initial public offering.  SinoTech plunged 42 percent to $2.35 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market on Aug. 16 after Alfredlittle.com published a short-
seller’s note saying the company’s largest customers were
probably “nothing more than empty shells” and that it’s worth
less than 63 cents a share. SinoTech called the note
“inaccurate and defamatory.”  Trading has been halted in the shares and the company said
in a statement yesterday that it intends to “cooperate fully”
with  Nasdaq  to address the stock market’s concerns. The trading
halt has rendered the ADS “essentially worthless,” Athale said
in the complaint.  Rebecca Guo, a spokeswoman for the company in Beijing,
didn’t return a phone call or respond to an e-mail placed to her
office outside business hours in  China  seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  In an Aug. 17 statement, the company said it wasn’t aware
of material omissions in its financial statements and that it
had appointed an independent committee to investigate.  “We are outraged by this blatantly self-interested,
mercenary attempt to profiteer at the expense of SinoTech and
its shareholders,” Chief Executive Officer Xin Guoqiang said in
the Aug. 17 statement.  The case is Athale v. SinoTech Energy Ltd., 11-CV-5831,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  