-- 
Solar Millennium Sinks for Fourth Day on Losses, Financing Delay

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-08-19T11:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/solar-millennium-postpones-financial-close-for-blythe-plant.html
Solar Millennium AG (S2M) , a German
developer of solar thermal power plants, fell the most in six
years in  Frankfurt  after it forecast full-year losses and
postponed the financial close of its biggest project to 2012.  The shares sank as much as 59 percent to their lowest since
the July 2005 listing after the company reported half-year
results. They were down 46 percent to 4.20 euros at 1:23 p.m.
local time after falling 29 percent yesterday.  Solar Millennium, which has projects in several countries
using solar thermal technology, said it will seek financing for
the initial 500 megawatts of its Blythe project in California
next year through the capital markets after adjusting its U.S.
strategy. It will forgo the $2.1 billion in U.S. Department of
Energy loan guarantees for this phase of project.  The company yesterday said it will switch to using
photovoltaic technology for at least half of the 1,000 megawatts
planned at the site, the world’s largest solar project. The loan
guarantees were expected to cover 75 percent of the construction
costs for two initial 250-megawatt phases.  “The decision to use photovoltaics in Blythe does not mean
the company is turning away from its core technology of solar-
thermal  power plants ,” Christoph Wolff, chief executive of
Solar Millennium, said today in a statement. The U.S. market is
now focused on peak load demand, which is suitable for
photovoltaics, though other regions will still be interested in
the stable output of solar thermal, according to Wolff.  Parabolic Mirrors  The Erlangen-based company said it will focus on
photovoltaics in the U.S. as the technology has “far more”
profitable prospects for plants that do not require storage. The
group has plans for more than 2,000 megawatts in the U.S. and
Spain using solar thermal technology involving parabolic mirrors
that heat liquids to drive steam turbines.  Solar Millennium reported a 32.6 million-euro loss before
interest and tax for the half-year to April 30 compared with a
25.1 million loss a year ago. The company said the loss was
expected as financing deals for both its 50-megawatt Ibersol
project in  Spain  and Blythe were forecast for the second half.  With the deal for the Blythe plant scheduled for 2012, the
company now expects a “negative” result for the full year.  Solar Millennium has fallen for four straight days,
bringing its decline this year to 79 percent and reducing its
market value to about 53 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  