-- 
Solvay Unit Wins Renewal of European Tariffs on Chinese Chemical

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-08-19T08:14:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/solvay-unit-wins-renewal-of-european-tariffs-on-chinese-chemical.html
The European Union renewed tariffs
on a chemical from China used in bricks, giving a German unit of
 Belgium ’s  Solvay SA (SOLB)  five more years of trade protection.  The EU re-imposed the duties as high as 56.40 euros
($80.71) a metric ton on barium carbonate, also used in the
tiles, ceramics and ferrite industries. The EU introduced the
levies in July 2005 to punish Chinese exporters such as Guizhou
Red Star Developing Co. for selling barium carbonate in  Europe 
below cost, a practice known as dumping.  “There is no reason to believe the Chinese exporting
producers will not continue to dump and undercut Union industry
prices in the future,” the 27-nation EU said in a decision
published today in the  Official Journal  and due to take effect
tomorrow. “If measures were repealed, there would be a
likelihood of a significant increase in dumped imports.”  China ’s share of the EU market for barium carbonate
expanded to 63.6 percent in the 12 months through June 2010 from
61.9 percent in 2007, according to the decision in Brussels by
the bloc’s governments. EU consumption of barium carbonate fell
38 percent to 76,560 tons in that period, according to the bloc.  Solvay & CPC Barium Strontium GmbH , the EU’s sole producer
of barium carbonate, made a request in April 2010 for longer
trade protection. The Hanover-based company said that letting
the trade protection lapse would probably result in a
continuation of dumping by Chinese exporters and of injury to
the EU industry, according to the bloc.  That led the European Commission, the EU’s trade authority,
to open a probe in July 2010 into whether the levies should be
prolonged. The five-year renewal is the outcome of that inquiry,
during which the duties stayed in place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  