-- 
Woori Sale Abandoned for Second Time as South Korea Receives Solitary Bid

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-08-19T06:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/south-korea-abandons-second-attempt-to-sell-woori-after-receiving-solo-bid.html
South Korea  abandoned its second
attempt to sell Woori Finance Holdings Co. after only one group
bid for the country’s biggest financial firm by assets.  The Public Fund Oversight Committee decided to halt the
current sale process because the solo bid doesn’t fulfill the
government’s “valid competition” criteria, it said in an e-
mailed statement after meeting today.  President  Lee Myung Bak , who aims to privatize companies
bailed out more than a decade ago, failed to attract more
investors even after Woori slumped more than 20 percent this
year. Lawmakers rejected a plan in June that would have eased
rules for rival financial holding companies seeking the stake,
while interest from buyout firms has drawn public opposition.  “It’ll be difficult to resume the sale in the near
future,” Shim Kyu Sun, an analyst at Seoul-based Hanwha
Securities Co. “The privatization is likely to drag on for a
long time.”  A group led by Seoul-based MBK Partners Ltd. and  Korean
Federation of Community Credit Cooperatives  submitted the
solitary offer for the nation’s largest financial company by
assets, state-run Korea Deposit Insurance Corp. said after the
deadline for applications passed on Aug. 17.  Shares Fall  Shares of Seoul-based Woori, whose businesses include banks,
a brokerage and an insurer, fell 7 percent to 11,300 won at 2:49
p.m. local time, valuing the government’s 57 percent stake at
5.2 trillion won ($4.8 billion). Today’s drop extends the
stock’s losses to 27 percent this year, more than the benchmark
Kospi index’s 15 percent decline.  South Korean private-equity funds MBK, TStone Corp. and
Vogo Fund showed interest in Woori in June, a person with direct
knowledge of the auction said at the time. Vogo said on Aug. 17
that it didn’t bid because of recent financial-market volatility
and a failure to line up partners. TStone cited the equity rout
and concerns about opposition to its bid.  Korea abandoned a previous attempt to sell the stake in
December due to lack of interest from buyers.  The Public Fund Oversight Committee will resume Woori sale
discussions once new members join the committee after Aug. 30,
the committee’s secretary general Kim Yongbeom told reporters
today. The terms of some members are due to end on that day.  Woori was created in 2001 as a holding company for banks
that the government rescued following the Asian financial crisis
in 1997-1998, as part of a push to make the banking industry
more competitive. The government spent 12.8 trillion won to aid
Woori and has recouped 5.4 trillion won so far through block
sales of shares.  Daewoo Securities Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Samsung
Securities Co. were hired in September to help Korea Deposit
sell at least 30 percent of the company. The firm on Aug. 17
didn’t disclose how much MBK and its partners bid for the asset.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  