-- 
South African Bonds Have Best Week in Three Years on Demand for Lower Risk

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-19T14:49:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/south-african-bonds-have-best-week-in-three-years-on-demand-for-lower-risk.html
South African bonds headed for the
best weekly return in almost three years as reduced inflation
concerns and a global stock-market rout boosted investor
appetite for fixed-income securities.  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 gained 63 cents to
93.90 rand, driving the yield down 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 7.66 percent as of 4:23 p.m. in
Johannesburg, the lowest on a closing basis since January 2009.
The bonds have gained 3.3 percent this week, the most since the
week ending Nov. 28, 2008, according to pricing on Bloomberg.  Emerging-market stocks fell for third week, prices of
industrial metals slumped and gold soared to a record amid signs
the  U.S. economy  is slowing and  Europe ’s debt crisis may cause
funding problems for banks. South  Africa ’s benchmark stock index
headed for its fourth weekly decline in five, dragged down by
losses for mining companies including Anglo American Plc and BHP
Billiton Ltd.  “The story of global bonds as the safe haven in a world of
volatile equity markets continues, with the local yield curve
even flattening today as demand for the higher-yielding longer
stocks outweighed any concerns regarding inflation or
issuance,” Rand Merchant Bank analysts led by Theuns de Wet
wrote in a research note.  Bond Purchases  Foreign investors bought a net 4.05 billion rand ($561.6
million) of South African bonds yesterday, the most in a day
since June 8, according to JSE Ltd. data on Bloomberg.
Foreigners have bought a net 56.3 billion of South African debt
this year, attracted by inflation within the central bank’s
target range, low sovereign-debt levels compared with some
developed countries, and relatively high yields. The country’s
four-year debt yields 6.675 percent compared with 0.572 percent
for U.S. notes with similar maturity.  “ South Africa  offers good carry, and the fiscal situation
is positive,”  Murat Toprak , an emerging-markets strategist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in  London , said by phone. “Also importantly,
it has a high level of liquidity in the emerging-market Europe
and Africa space. It is the most liquid  bond market  in that
space.”  The extra yield investors receive for buying South Africa’s
ten-year bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped 10 basis
points today to 5.56 percentage points, 103 basis points more
than this year’s low of 4.53 percentage points reached on Jan. 5  Investors favored 10-year and 15-year debt over shorter-
maturity notes, with the yield on notes due 2026, known as the
R186, falling below 8 percent for the first time since November
2010. Investors are betting the central bank will delay an
interest-rate increase to support growth in Africa’s biggest
economy.  Rate-Cut Bets  “Investors increased the duration of their portfolios and
the longer-dated R186 outperformed other bonds,” BNP Paribas SA
analysts led by London-based Paul Mortimer-Lee wrote in an e-
mailed research note. “This trend is likely to continue as rate
hike expectations are priced out and eventually reversed to rate
cuts.”  The  Reserve Bank  has kept its benchmark rate unchanged at
5.5 percent this year, after lowering it three times in 2010,
even as inflation climbed to a 15-month high of 5 percent in
July.  Standard Bank Group Ltd., Rand Merchant Bank and Nedbank
Group Ltd. have pushed back the likely date for a rate increase,
and money-market traders have pared bets for an advance in the
next 12 months, forward-rate agreements show.  Three-month forward-rate agreements starting in May next
year dropped 14 basis points today to 5.43 percent, the lowest
in at least 10 years, according to prices on Bloomberg. The rate
has declined from 6.63 percent on May 16, the highest in a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  