-- 
Malema May Face Suspension From South Africa’s ANC After Botswana Comments

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-19T15:26:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/south-africa-s-ruling-anc-charges-malema-with-violating-party-constitution.html
Julius Malema , youth leader of South
Africa’s  African National Congress , may face suspension from the
ruling party after the ANC said it will take disciplinary action
against him for a second time in two years.  Malema and Floyd Shivambu, a spokesman for the ANC Youth
League, are alleged to have undermined the party through their
statements calling for the government in Botswana to be ousted,
the party said in an e-mailed statement today. They have also
been accused of “sowing divisions in the ranks of the ANC.”  Malema, 30, who has been pushing the government to
nationalize mines, said on July 30 that Botswana posed a threat
to regional security because of its close ties to the U.S. The
ANC described those remarks as a serious transgression that
“crossed the political line.”  “Malema has left the party with no other choice but to
discipline him,” and he could face expulsion or suspension,
Zwelethu Jolobe, a politics lecturer at the University of  Cape
Town , said in a telephone interview today. “It’s hard to see
now how he will bounce back from this.”  Shivambu didn’t answer his mobile phone and it did not
revert to voice mail. Calls to Malema’s mobile phone did not
connect.  ‘Enthusiasm For Nationalization’  “The move against Malema will increase the likelihood of a
more reasoned approach to structuring the state’s relationship
with the  mining industry ,” Mungo Soggot, a political analyst at
London-based advisory service Risk Analysis, said in e-mailed
comments.  “However Malema’s career is not over yet, and there are
other elements in the ANC alliance which have also indicated
their enthusiasm for nationalization after Malema let the genie
out of the bottle,” he said.  In May last year, Malema admitted to violating party rules
by dividing the ANC and “undermining the stature” of President
 Jacob Zuma . He was forced to apologize, seek anger-management
help and agreed to pay a 10,000 rand ($1,387) fine. He was also
warned that he risked suspension from the party if he committed
a similar infraction in the next two years.  “When it comes to the ANC Youth League, we have had many
incidents that show the desire to undermine the ANC
leadership,”  Gwede Mantashe , the party’s secretary-general,
said in an e-mailed statement on Aug. 3.  Zuma Support  The youth league played a key role in helping Zuma take
control of the ANC from  Thabo Mbeki  in 2007. The party is due to
hold leadership elections in December next year, and local
newspapers have reported that the league will shift its support
for Zuma in favor of Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe.  The case against the two youth leaders will be held Aug.
30-31, Derek Hanekom, chairman of the ANC’s national
disciplinary committee, said today in an interview with the
Johannesburg-based eNews television station.  “We will be looking at better ways of promoting the core
values of the ANC” including the need for unity, honesty,
discipline and mutual respect, Zuma said in a party newsletter
distributed via e-mail. “The leadership has to ensure effective
implementation” of these values, he said.  The office of  South Africa ’s graft ombudsman said in an e-
mailed response to questions that it is investigating whether
proper procedures were followed when a company with links to
Malema secured state contracts and whether any laws had been
violated.  The Mail & Guardian reported on Aug. 3 that Malema held
shares in On-Point Engineering, which awarded contracts to
Malema’s cousin, his friend and former driver, and business
associates.  Malema told the Johannesburg-based newspaper that while he
was involved in the company, he didn’t influence contractual
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 