-- 
Sprint Said to Talk With Cable Companies on Clearwire Buyout

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-19T20:21:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/sprint-said-in-talks-about-clearwire-buyout.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  is talking with
cable companies about a possible investment that may lead to an
acquisition of partner  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , according to three
people familiar with the talks. Clearwire shares soared.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless operator, is
discussing the investment with companies including  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) , said the people, who wouldn’t be identified because the
talks aren’t public. Under one scenario being discussed, Sprint
would use the money to buy the equity in Clearwire it doesn’t
own. Talks are preliminary and no deal is imminent, they said.  Sprint and Comcast, which are already investors in
Clearwire along with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and Bright House
Networks LLC, are discussing ways to provide funding to the
money-losing company so it can build out its high-speed wireless
network. Kirkland, Washington-based Clearwire plans to spend
about $600 million to upgrade its network to so-called long-term
evolution, or LTE, technology, to compete against  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 Verizon Wireless , the company said this month.  “The cable companies are interested in maintaining a
strong third player in the market, so they want to make sure
Sprint continues to exist,” said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  Clearwire rose 70 cents, or 30 percent, to $3.01 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the biggest one-day
gain since July 2007. The stock has lost 42 percent this year.  Sprint, based in  Overland Park , Kansas, fell 7 cents to
$3.42 on the New York Stock exchange and has dropped 19 percent
this year.  Sprint Investment  The size and timing of the investment in Sprint haven’t yet
been determined, the people said. The discussions involve
various scenarios, including a Clearwire buyout or an investment
in the company through Sprint, the people said. Cox
Communications Inc. and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  have also been
in discussions with Sprint, two of the people said.  Another scenario involves Comcast and Time Warner Cable
selling their Clearwire shares and so-called Advanced Wireless
Services spectrum to Sprint in exchange for equity in Sprint,
according to two of the people. The cable companies are also
negotiating about providing so-called backhaul services for
Clearwire towers, the people said.  Sprint held 454.3 million Class B Clearwire shares with a
voting stake of just under 50 percent at the end of June,
according to a regulatory filing. Comcast owns Class B shares
with 9.7 percent voting interest and Time Warner Cable owns a
5.1 percent voting interest, according to the filing.  Quadruple Play  “The cable guys have this stake in Clearwire that they’re
not doing anything with, they’ve got this spectrum they’re not
doing anything with, they’ve got this relationship with Sprint
they’re not doing anything with, and they don’t have a wireless
strategy,” said Jonathan Chaplin, an analyst at Credit Suisse
AG in New York. “For Sprint, anything that shows more
commitment from cable is really positive.”  A deal with Sprint may help cable companies compete more
effectively against telephone rivals in offering high-speed
wireless service. AT&T and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  can offer
a so-called quadruple play of landline, wireless, Internet and
pay-television service to customers in some regions.  Cable-company backing would also bolster Sprint as it
struggles to compete against its larger rivals. The company,
which in July reported its 15th consecutive quarterly loss, will
lose ground to AT&T if that company completes its proposed
acquisition of  T-Mobile USA . The deal would allow AT&T to
surpass Verizon Wireless as the country’s largest wireless
operator.  Cable Reluctance  Cable companies may be unwilling to commit cash to another
wireless company after losing money on their Clearwire
investments, Moffett said. If Sprint increases its stake in
Clearwire or buys the company, it’s unclear where it will get
enough money to build out Clearwire’s 4G network, Moffett said.  “It’s going to take eight times as much square mileage to
build the second half of Clearwire’s network as it did the first
half, because the  U.S. population  is so spread out,” said
Moffett. “Sprint can’t live without the rest of Clearwire,
there’s no plan B, but Sprint doesn’t have enough money to fund
it once they’ve got it.”  Bill White , a spokesman for Sprint, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation.  Susan Johnston , a spokeswoman for Clearwire; Charlie
Douglas, a Comcast spokesman; Alex Dudley, a Time Warner Cable
spokesman; Todd Smith, a spokesman for Cox; and  Jim Maiella , a
spokesman for Cablevision, all declined to comment.  Lorelie Johnson, a spokeswoman for Bright House, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  