-- 
Swedish Policy Makers Rush to Stamp Out Concerns About Banks’ Liquidity

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-08-19T13:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/swedish-bank-liquidity-situation-is-very-good-.html
Swedish policy makers rushed to ease
concerns the nation’s banking industry was at danger from a loss
of international funding after shares plunged yesterday.  Riksbank Deputy Governor Lars Nyberg said in an interview
today that the banks have “no difficulties obtaining their
international funding,” while Finance Minister Anders Borg said
at a press briefing that lenders “are better capitalized than
before” and have “greater stability.”  Shares of Stockholm-based  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest
Nordic lender, plunged 7.4 percent yesterday as financial stocks
across the region slumped. Lars Frisell, chief economist at the
country’s financial regulator, said earlier this week that
lenders need to do more to shore up funding to prepare for the 
next potential crisis in bank lending markets.  Swedish banks, whose combined assets are four times the
size of the largest Nordic economy, continued to slide today.
Nordea declined 3.1 percent at 3:01 p.m. in Stockholm, after
earlier trading down as much as 5.2 percent.  “Comments from  Sweden ’s FSA yesterday would normally be
ignored and to some degree are also expected by regulators, but
unfortunately found an open door which the Riksbank is now
rushing to shut by reassuring markets on Swedish bank funding,”
Nick Anderson, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London , said in
an e-mail today.  Interbank High  The three-month Stockholm interbank lending rate reached
2.59 percent on Aug. 17, the highest since December 2008. It was
at 2.58 percent today. The rate rose to more than 5 percent in
2008 as the market froze following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holding Inc.  The share declines don’t reflect the banks’ capital buffers
or the healthy economic environment in which they operate,
according to analysts and officials. While cautioning lenders to
prepare for a possible deepening of the crisis, Frisell said
Swedish banks are in a “good condition” and less dependent on
short-term dollar funding than they were before the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers .  Borg said that pressure on Swedish banks is caused by the
situation in other parts of  Europe . There’s no “primary risk”
in the Swedish financial system, such as the difficulties the
industry had with loan losses in the Baltics during the
financial crisis, he said.  Borg and other policy makers such as central bank Governor
Stefan Ingves have argued that the largest Nordic economy should
take a global lead in tightening  capital requirements  as
regulators across the world look for ways to prevent a re-run of
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Over Reaction  The sell-off was an over-reaction and “Swedish banks would
be the ones that fail last” in the event of a second liquidity
crisis in Europe, Nyberg said. “Investors have access to money
and they will lend it to banks that look really good in
countries that look really good. Sweden looks very good in that
context,” Nyberg said.  Sweden’s biggest lenders, which also include Swedbank AB,
 Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and SEB AB, all passed the European
Banking Authority’s stress test on July 15 with a core Tier 1
capital ratio, a key measure of financial strength, of at least
8.6 percent under an adverse scenario. The minimum requirement
is a ratio of 5 percent.  Swedbank, the biggest lender in the Baltics, recouped 324
million kronor in bad-loan provisions in the second quarter,
following impairments of 963 million kronor a year earlier amid
an economic recovery in the Baltic region. The bank in 2009
posted a full-year loss as the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia
and  Lithuania  suffered the European Union’s worst recessions.  Still Functioning  “We share the view of the Riksbank,” Thomas Backteman, a
spokesman at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , said today by phone. “The funding
market is still functioning and we’re continuing to utilize our
funding strategy as planned.”  Swedish policy makers have been pressing for the nation’s
lenders to seek more permanent, longer-term funding after the
financial crisis in 2008. Following the collapse of Lehman,
Sweden’s central bank provided liquidity peaking at $30 billion
because the country’s banks weren’t able to borrow in the U.S.
currency to repay short-term loans.  “It won’t take much for the  interbank market  to
collapse,” Frisell, who is also a member of the Basel Committee
for Banking Supervision, said in an Aug. 17 interview. “It’s
not that serious at the moment but it feels like it could very
easily become that way and that everything will freeze.”  Credit default swaps on Nordea jumped 10 basis points
yesterday to 133.5, while Sweden’s benchmark OMX Index of stocks
slumped 6.7 percent.  The move may be unwarranted, analysts said.  “We can see a number of reasons why funding costs should
continue to be available at reasonable prices,” Henrik Schmidt
and Alice Timperley, analysts at Morgan Stanley in London, wrote
in a note today. The Nordic banks have “very high”  capital
ratios , the macroeconomic situation remains “relatively
benign” and Sweden, Norway and  Denmark  are not in the euro
area, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net 
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 