-- 
Sweden Bonds, Yielding Less Than Germany’s, Gain for 4th Week

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-19T15:59:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/sweden-bonds-yielding-less-than-germany-s-gain-for-4th-week.html
Swedish bonds gained for a fourth
week, and yields stayed below those of German bunds, as
investors sought a haven on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen and the  U.S. economy  is faltering.  The krona appreciated against all of its 16 major peers as
central bank Deputy Governor Lars Nyberg said today the
country’s lenders don’t face a liquidity shortage and have ready
access to international funding. The yield on 10-year Swedish
securities, rated AAA, fell 19 basis points this week. It
climbed five basis points today.  “It’s all about the search for quality in global bond
markets,” said Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, chief analyst at Danske
Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “There’s safe-haven flow into
Scandinavian bond markets, which have quite healthy balances and
the risk of downgrade is quite small.”  The 3.50 percent Swedish bond due in June 2022 rose to 1.99
percent as of 4:54 in  London . It slid 22 basis points yesterday
to 1.93, the lowest since Bloomberg began collecting the data in
1990. Two-year yields rose five basis points to 1.39 percent.  Sweden ’s 10-year bonds yield 12 basis points less than
similar-maturity German bunds, after rates dropped below the
German level at the end of March and have stayed there for most
of the past five months.  Greek two-year notes slumped today after some of the
nation’s euro-region partners said they would seek collateral in
exchange for new loans, fuelling concern attempts to resolve the
currency union’s debt crisis will be derailed.  Beating Peers  Swedish bonds beat their peers from top-rated euro region
countries including  Germany ,  France , and  Austria  this month,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. They handed
investors a 3.5 percent return, compared with 2.8 percent from
German and French bonds, and 3 percent from Austrian debt.  Sweden’s Riksbank raised interest rates in July for a
seventh time over the past year, and signaled two more increases
to 2.5 percent in 2011 after the economy grew at the fastest
pace in 40 years in 2010 and inflation quickened to above its 2
percent target. The bank’s next announcement is on Sept. 7.  The krona appreciated 1.1 percent to 6.3708 per dollar, and
strengthened 0.6 percent to 9.1758 per euro.  Sweden’s currency rose 3.1 percent over the past year versus
a basket of 10 developed-nation currencies, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Swedish banks must do more to prepare for a deterioration
in Europe’s debt crisis that could freeze interbank markets and
cut off funding,  Lars Frisell , chief economist at the country’s
financial regulator, said this week.  ‘Collapse’ Possible  “It won’t take much for the interbank market to
collapse,” Frisell, who is also a member of the Basel Committee
for Banking Supervision, said Aug. 17 in an interview in
 Stockholm . “It’s not that serious at the moment but it feels
like it could very easily become that way and that everything
will freeze.”  Sweden, which relies on exports for half its economic
output, will cut growth forecasts as market turmoil threatens to
derail a global recovery, Finance Minister Anders Borg said last
week. Nordea Bank AB, the largest Nordic bank, forecast this
week that the central bank will refrain from its planned rate
increases this year.  “It’s a great safe-haven trade,” said  John Stopford , the
head of fixed income at Investec Asset Management in London.
Sweden and other Scandinavian countries “are fiscally much
sounder than their peers. They enjoy decent growth, and they
have room to cut  interest rates  in the event that things
deteriorate,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  