-- 
Franc Gains for Third Day Versus Euro as Stock Slide Increases Safety Bid

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-08-19T15:36:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/swiss-franc-extends-its-gains-versus-euro-and-dollar-on-safety-demand.html
Switzerland ’s franc strengthened for
a third day versus the euro and advanced against the dollar as a
slide in stocks and concern the global economy is stalling
boosted demand for the safest assets.  The franc rose against all but one of its 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg even after the central bank said this week
it may take further steps to curb the currency’s strength. Two-
year Swiss bond yields stayed negative for a third day as
investors sacrificed capital for the perceived safety of the
nation’s assets.  “The nervousness did not change the fact that the franc
remains in demand as a safe haven,” Commerzbank AG currency
analysts including Antje Praefcke in  Frankfurt , wrote in a note
to clients. “There is no end in sight to the depressed mood on
the markets. The franc is likely to remain under appreciation
pressure.”  Switzerland’s currency strengthened 0.6 percent to 1.1310
per euro at 4:33 p.m. in London, having risen 2.2 percent since
falling to a three-week low on Aug. 17. The currency climbed 1.1
percent to 78.57 centimes per dollar and gained 0.8 percent
0.6 percent to 97.17 yen.  The franc has appreciated 14 percent this year, making it
the best performer among a basket of 10 developed-market
currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes.  Swiss Bonds  Swiss bonds declined for the first time in five days. The
10-year yields climbed four basis points to 0.91 percent, after
sliding yesterday to a record low of 0.853 percent.  Ten-year bonds yield 120 basis points less than German
bonds. The spread has widened from 114 basis points at the start
of the month, as investors preferred Swiss bonds because the
country doesn’t have to contribute to the bailing out of
fiscally troubled neighbors.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 1.6 percent, after
earlier sliding as much as 3.6 percent. More than $6 trillion
has been erased from the value of global equities this month on
signs the U.S. recovery is losing momentum, while the cost of
insuring European sovereign debt is back to levels that
triggered the region’s central bank to buy Italian and Spanish
bonds on Aug. 8.  The franc’s gain in the past three days failed to erase its
weekly decline against the euro as investors were mindful that
the  Swiss National Bank  may introduce new measures to damp
demand for the franc, whose 9.3 percent appreciation against the
euro and 16 percent gain versus the dollar this year are making
Swiss goods expensive abroad.  Weekly Decline  SNB Vice President Thomas Jordan has said the central bank
is assessing “a whole range of options” to prevent the franc
from rising excessively.  The currency has declined 2 percent against the euro this
week, and fell 1 percent against the dollar.  The rate to exchange fixed- for floating-interest rate
payments denominated in francs turned negative for the first
time on Aug. 17 as the SNB battled a surge in the currency. The
measure rose to 13 basis points after falling into negative
territory over the past two days.  The rate banks charge to lend to each other in francs for
three months, or Libor, dropped to a record low of 0.00833
percent today from 0.01333 yesterday, the  British Bankers
Association  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  