-- 
Syria Kills 32 Protesters After Obama Calls on Assad to Quit

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-19T18:17:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/syria-arrests-hundreds-as-obama-european-allies-call-on-assad-to-resign.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least 32 protesters and arrested more than 300 people after U.S.
President  Barack Obama , in concert with European allies, called
on Bashar al-Assad to step down.  At least 27 people died today in a suburb of the capital,
Damascus, the Homs governorate and Daraa, where the revolt
against Syria’s president began in mid-March, said Ammar Qurabi
of the National Organization for Human Rights in Syria. Five
were killed yesterday at rallies in the Damascus suburbs and
across the country, according to Qurabi and Mahmoud Merhi, head
of the Arab Organization for Human Rights. State media said four
security forces members were killed by militants in Daraa.  Western calls on Assad to step down “will certainly have
an impact,” Merhi said by phone from Damascus. “They will
embolden people and strengthen the momentum of the rallies.”  In a coordinated move yesterday with U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron , French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, Obama issued a statement saying the
Syrian people deserve to chart their own future.  The European Union said today it reached an agreement to
broaden sanctions against the Syrian regime, including preparing
for an embargo on Syrian crude oil into the bloc.  Added Pressure  The measure by Western governments may add to pressure for
United Nations action to penalize the government for the
crackdown that Merhi and Qurabi say has killed more than 2,400
people. About 500 members of the security forces have died
during that time, the government has said.  Faced with the most serious threat to his family’s 40-year
rule, Assad has deployed tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and
helicopters to crush the uprising that began after revolts
ousted the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and sparked a conflict
in Libya.  Today’s crackdown left several people injured in Daraa, a
southern area, and the city of Aleppo, Merhi said.  Security was tight as Muslims attended the midday Friday
prayers, which have been followed by weekly protests during the
five months of unrest. Forces prevented those under 55 from
attending prayers today in Daraa, Al Arabiya television said,
citing unidentified activists.  The citizens of Syria “have braved ferocious brutality at
the hands of their government,” Obama said. “For the sake of
the Syrian people, the time has come for President Assad to step
aside.”  U.S. Sanctions  Obama’s declaration was his first explicit call for Assad
to give up power since the uprising started. He also signed an
executive order freezing any Syrian government assets in the
U.S. and banning import to the U.S. of petroleum products of
Syrian origin. The order prohibits people in the U.S. from doing
business with Syria.  The EU is adding 20 Syrian individuals or entities to those
targeted for an asset freeze and travel ban. A proposal is being
prepared for consideration by the council next week for an
embargo on Syrian  crude oil  and suspension of technical
assistance of the European Investment Bank.  “The European Union continues to aim at putting an end to
the brutal repression and assisting the Syrian people to achieve
their legitimate aspirations,” EU foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton  said in the statement.  UN Action  U.S. and Western powers in the UN Security Council will
introduce a draft resolution in the coming days that includes
measures to increase pressure on the government, U.K. Deputy
Ambassador Philip Parham said, without giving specifics. Miguel Berger,  Germany ’s deputy ambassador, said it will include
sanctions.  A UN team will go to Syria this weekend on a four-day
mission to assess the humanitarian situation, emergency relief
coordinator Valerie Amos told reporters. She said the government
has pledged “full access” for the team.  Marc Ginsberg, a former U.S. ambassador to  Morocco , was
among experts on the region who said the U.S. action will do
little by itself to weaken Assad. Analysts and administration
officials said pressure will increase if coordinated sanctions
cut off enough Syrian oil exports to affect government finances
or if other nations empower opponents inside  Syria . About 90
percent of its oil exports go to Europe, according to the U.S.  Declining Production  Syria, whose output is declining, produces about 385,000
barrels of crude a day and has the  Middle East ’s ninth-largest
reserves, according to data from BP Plc.  Further sanctions at the UN level may be hindered by
Russian resistance.  Russia  opposes calls on Assad to step down,
the Foreign Ministry in Moscow said today on its website. Assad
needs time to implement promised changes in Syria, the ministry
said, while calling for a halt to all violence in the country.  “We don’t share the point of view of the U.S. and EU about
President Assad and will continue to follow our consistent and
principled line on Syria,” the ministry said.  “Russia has been a longstanding ally of Syria and is no
hurry to see the regime fall,” said  Chris Phillips , an analyst
at the Economist Intelligence Unit in  London .  In addition to wanting to defend the right of states to
deal with internal problems without outside interference, Russia
and  China  “feel quite betrayed over what happened in  Libya  and
believe the Western states have overstepped their mandate with
helping the rebels,” Phillips said.  “Russia has been building a base in Syria for its navy in
the Mediterranean and the Syrian regime in many ways is Russia’s
closest ally, serving a key strategic purpose,” he added.  Limited Options  Obama’s choices since the violence began have been limited
by “how complicated and uncertain” the situation is in Syria,
Russia and China’s resistance to sanctions and how Iran or
terrorists could react, said Anthony Cordesman, a military
analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
 Washington .  Direct intervention by the U.S. would risk forcing Arab and
other Muslim states to support Assad, he said. “You would see
it be popular in the  United States  and  Israel , but it would not
have achieved any meaningful strategic effect.”  Even now, Cordesman said, Assad “doesn’t care what people
around him or countries around him think,” and he could hold on
to power for another year or more. “We have absolutely no idea
of what will happen if Assad goes,” he said.  In his statement, Obama said the U.S. “cannot and will not
impose this transition” for the Syrian people, who have
expressed “their strong desire that there not be foreign
intervention in their movement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut  at 
 mberhally@bloomberg.net .
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 