-- 
U.K. Lawmakers Seek Answers From News Corp.’s Ex-Law Firm

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-19T15:19:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/u-k-lawmakers-seek-answers-from-news-corp-s-ex-law-firm.html
British lawmakers investigating
phone-hacking at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World tabloid have
turned their attention to the criminal defense firm hired by the
company’s U.K. unit in 2006 to conduct an internal probe.  Members of Parliament sent a letter seeking evidence from
London-based  BCL Burton Copeland  after receiving new testimony
from News Corp. Deputy Chief Operating Officer  James Murdoch  and
several former executives, Britain’s Culture, Media and Sport
Committee said in an Aug. 16 statement. The company claims the
law firm’s investigation found no evidence of widespread phone
hacking -- a determination that has since been debunked.  Andy Coulson , the tabloid’s former editor who was arrested
last month, told the committee in 2009 that Burton Copeland had
been hired to find out “what the hell had gone on” after the
tabloid’s royal reporter  Clive Goodman  was arrested for phone
hacking, according to a transcript. “There was nothing that
they asked for that they were not given,” he said.  Earlier government probes into phone-hacking ended when
lawmakers and police reached dead ends in their queries. The
Metropolitan Police reopened the case in January after
celebrities’ civil lawsuits revealed evidence the crime went
beyond Goodman. Since then, 13 people have been arrested and
News Corp. was forced to shutter the 168-year-old tabloid to
contain public anger.  Calls and e-mails to Burton Copeland founder and senior
partner Ian Burton weren’t returned.  Widespread Hacking  Lawmakers have suggested News International should have
become aware earlier that hacking was widespread, with police
saying at least 4,000 phones may have been targeted, allegedly
including those of members of Parliament.  Burton Copeland reviewed e-mails and financial records for
nine months in 2006 and 2007, the tabloid’s former legal
manager, Tom Crone, told the committee in 2009. It didn’t
uncover evidence that phone hacking extended beyond Goodman and
 Glenn Mulcaire , the private investigator jailed for intercepting
messages for members of the British royal family, he said.  “Burton Copeland were in the office virtually every day or
in contact with the office every day,” Crone said at the 2009
hearing. “They were given absolutely free range to ask whatever
they wanted to ask.”  In testimony to the committee last month, News Corp.
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  sought to shift blame for the company’s
ignorance onto another London law firm, Harbottle & Lewis, which
conducted a separate internal probe related to phone hacking in
2007.  Harbottle, in a letter to Parliament, disputed Murdoch’s
claim, saying he was “confused for misinformed” about the
nature of the probe, which it says was limited to an employment
dispute over Goodman’s firing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  