-- 
U.K. Wheat Farmers ‘Pleasantly Surprised’ by Crop, Gleadell Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-19T16:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/u-k-wheat-farmers-pleasantly-surprised-by-crop-gleadell-says.html
U.K. wheat output is set to exceed
estimates this year after rainfall starting in July boosted crop
prospects, said Jonathan Lane, trading manager at Gleadell
Agriculture Ltd.  The harvest may come to between 14.6 million and 14.8
million metric tons, more than about 13 million tons expected by
growers and brokers in the spring, Lane said. The quality of
grain collected before recent rains also was better than
expected, he said. Gainsborough, England-based Gleadell says
it’s the third-largest buyer of grains in the U.K.  “Certainly there have been some terrible crops as forecast
in the late spring and early summer, but as a general rule,
farmers have been pleasantly surprised with what they have,”
Lane said by phone. “They are generally better than the
pessimistic outlook people had. The quality of what was cut
prior to recent rains was some of the best we’ve seen in
years.”  Gleadell, founded in 1880, is jointly owned by Hamburg,
Germany-based grain trader Alfred C. Toepfer International GmbH
and InVivo, located in Paris.  Rainfall that’s slowing collection of U.K. wheat may now be
affecting the quality of the grain, Lane said.  “We now need to see how the recent wet weather affects the
balance of wheat left in the fields,” he said. “Wheat we’ve
seen from the northern parts of the U.K. appears to be holding
out well. Now we need farmers to get into fields in the south
and see how that’s going.”  Wheat for November delivery on NYSE Liffe in  London  gained
0.7 percent to 163.55 pounds ($270.63) a metric ton today. Wheat
for December delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade, the world
benchmark, rose 3 percent to $7.615 a bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  