-- 
Gilts Fall on Speculation  Rally That Sent Yields to Record Low Overdone

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-19T16:20:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/u-k-s-pound-headed-for-weekly-gain-as-stock-declines-boost-safety-demand.html
Ten-year gilts declined for the
first time in three days on speculation a rally that sent yields
to a record low yesterday was overdone as European stock markets
pared losses.  Gilts trimmed a fourth weekly advance as the Stoxx  Europe 
600 Index retraced today’s decline to 1.6 percent from as much
as 3.6 percent.  Government bonds  gained this week while stocks
slumped amid concern the U.S. economic recovery is faltering and
Europe’s debt crisis is getting worse. Sterling gained versus
the dollar as Britain posted a smaller budget deficit last month
than economists forecast, boosted by higher  tax revenue .  “Towards the end of the week, it’s maybe a bit of profit
taking and a reassessment of how rich gilts are,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit in London. “The slight stabilization of
risky asset markets and the gyrations of the last couple of days
look like they might be finally finding some stability.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt rose seven basis points to
2.39 percent at 5:15 p.m. in  London , up from a record low 2.237
percent reached yesterday, which was the least since Bloomberg
began compiling the data in 1989. The 10-year yield dropped 14
basis points this week. Two-year yields rose two basis points to
0.60 percent.  Seeking Safety  Ten-year gilt yields have slid 111 basis points, or 1.11
percentage point, this year as concern the euro-area debt crisis
is spreading to larger economies in the region stoked demand for
the perceived safety of U.K. government debt. Yields have also
fallen as the deepest government spending cuts since World War
II crimped prospects for economic growth, prompting investors to
push back expectations for higher  interest rates .  “There’s plenty of cash in the U.K., which is going into
the gilt market for want of a better place,” said Adam McCormack, head of gilt sales at Barclays Plc in London. “Data
around the world has been weak, but the U.K. has the benefit of
having a flexible currency and a government that is taking
proactive steps to reduce its  budget deficit .”  The pound rose 0.3 percent to $1.6558, set for a weekly
advance of 1.7 percent, the most since the five days ended May
27. Britain’s currency traded 0.2 percent stronger at 86.93
pence per euro from 86.78 yesterday, giving it a weekly gain of
0.7 percent.  Sterling has strengthened 1.2 percent in the past five days
against a basket of nine other developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  ‘Fleeing the Euro’  “Part of sterling’s outperformance is driven by the so-
called safe-haven inflows from investors fleeing the euro and
the dollar,” said  Valentin Marinov , a London-based currency
strategist, at Citigroup Inc. “There is the strong political
will to implement ambitious fiscal austerity plans agreed upon
already last year. This likely underpinned the fiscal
creditworthiness of the U.K. sovereign and explains some of the
attractiveness of sterling.”  Dissident Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee members
 Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  ended their push to raise the
benchmark rate from a record low 0.5 percent, according to
minutes of the central bank’s most recent policy meeting
released Aug. 17.  Adam Posen  renewed his call to lift the bank’s
200 billion-pound bond purchase plan by 50 billion pounds.  “The critical point for the gilt market has been the shift
in the MPC,” Barclays’s McCormack said. “There’s more
speculation now that more people might join Adam Posen in voting
for further quantitative easing.”  A Credit Suisse AG index based on swaps that in February
was predicting a 92 basis point increase in the Bank of
England’s benchmark over the next 12 months, is now estimating a
reduction of four basis points over the coming year.  Morgan Stanley yesterday reduced its forecast for global
growth this year to 3.9 percent, down from its previous estimate
of 4.2 percent. “The upward revision to the pound forecast is
not a reflection of any improvement in U.K. fundamentals, but
rather a deterioration of the picture elsewhere, leaving
sterling appearing relatively attractive as a safe haven,”
wrote strategists including Gabriel De Kock, head of U.S.
foreign-exchange strategy in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Ballard in London at 
 eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  