-- 
U.K. Posts Smaller-Than-Forecast Budget Deficit

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-08-19T08:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/u-k-posts-smaller-than-forecast-budget-deficit.html
Britain posted a smaller budget
deficit in July than economists expected as revenue jumped,
boosted by taxes on company profits and a new bank levy.  The 20 million-pound ($33 million) deficit, which excludes
government support for banks, compares with a 3.5 billion pound
shortfall a year earlier, the Office for National Statistics
said in  London  today. A deficit of 2.4 billion pounds was
predicted, based on the median of 12 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey. Tax revenue rose 5.6 percent and spending gained
1.9 percent.  The figures provide a boost for Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  at a time when he is facing questions about
whether he can meet his deficit-reduction target as economic
growth slows.  “Revenues could get better over the rest of the year, but
the slowing recovery is the big thing,” Samuel Tombs, an
economist at  Capital Economics  in London, said before the
report. “The slowing economic recovery is weighing on growth in
tax receipts.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has staked his reputation on
carrying out the deepest budget cuts in peacetime Britain after
inheriting a deficit of 11 percent of gross domestic product
when his Conservative-led government took office in May 2010.  Osborne says record-low U.K. government bond yields prove
his 80 billion-pound program of spending cuts is shielding
Britain from the debt crisis engulfing the euro region and
protecting its top  credit rating  after the U.S. downgrade.  The opposition  Labour Party  has called for emergency tax
cuts to boost growth, saying the austerity drive is damaging the
economy and hitting the tax revenue Osborne needs to reduce
borrowing.  In the first four months of the fiscal year, the budget gap
was 40.1 billion pounds compared with 43.1 billion pounds in the
same period of 2010.  July is one of the biggest tax-collection months of the
year as companies make their first quarterly payments of tax on
their 2011 profits. Revenue growth was boosted last month by
 corporation tax  and a new levy on bank balance sheets that
contributed 660 million pounds. The levy is expected to bring in
a total of 2.4 billion pounds, the statistics office said.  The  budget surplus  including government support for banks
was 2 billion pounds. The cash measure of the deficit was in
surplus by 5.6 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  