-- 
U.K. Posts Smaller-Than-Forecast Budget Deficit as Bank Levy Lifts Revenue

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-08-19T10:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/u-k-posts-smaller-than-forecast-budget-deficit-as-bank-levy-lifts-revenue.html
Britain posted a smaller budget
deficit in July than economists forecast as taxes on company
profits and a new bank levy boosted government revenue.  The 20 million-pound ($33 million) deficit, which excludes
government support for banks, compares with a 3.5 billion-pound
shortfall a year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics 
said in London today. A deficit of 2.4 billion pounds was
predicted, based on the median of 12 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Tax revenue  rose 5.6 percent and spending gained
1.9 percent.  The figures provide a boost for Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  at a time when he is facing questions
about whether he can meet his  deficit-reduction  target this year
as economic growth slows. The economy expanded by just 0.2
percent in the second quarter after stagnating over the previous
six months.  “It’s an encouraging bit of news, but obviously there are
more severe headwinds coming,” said  Ross Walker , chief U.K.
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.
“Although the deterioration in the growth picture means there
are clear upside risks for borrowing in the remainder of the
year, at least our starting point is better than had been
expected.”  The pound was trading at $1.6500 as of 11:11 a.m. in
 London , down 0.1 percent on the day. The yield on the 10-year
gilt rose six basis points to 2.37 percent as the bond fell for
the first time in three days on speculation that a rally that
sent yields to a record low yesterday was overdone.  Record Cuts  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has staked his reputation on
carrying out the deepest budget cuts in peacetime Britain after
inheriting a deficit of 11 percent of gross domestic product
when his Conservative-led government took office in May 2010.  Osborne says U.K. government bond yields close to record
lows prove his 80 billion-pound program of spending cuts is
shielding Britain from the debt crisis engulfing the euro region
and protecting its top  credit rating  after the U.S. downgrade.  Today’s figures show deficit reduction is taking effect and
the recent market turmoil underlines the need for the government
to stick to its plan to eliminate the structural deficit by
2015, the Treasury said in an e-mailed statement today.  The opposition  Labour Party  has called for emergency tax
cuts to boost growth, saying the austerity drive is damaging the
economy and hitting the tax revenue Osborne needs to reduce
borrowing.  Open Question  The  Office for Budget Responsibility , which oversees
forecasting for the Treasury, predicted in March that the
deficit would narrow to 122 billion pounds in the fiscal year
that began in April, a drop of 21 billion pounds from the
previous year.  Economists said today’s figures leave open the question of
whether Osborne can meet the target. The average of independent
forecasts compiled by the Treasury earlier this month was for a
shortfall of 125 billion pounds.  In the first four months of the fiscal year, the budget gap
was 40.1 billion pounds compared with 43.1 billion pounds in the
same period of 2010. The year-earlier deficit was flattered by
3.5 billion pounds of receipts from a one-time tax on bank
bonuses introduced by the previous Labour government.  Revenue rose 4.3 percent, behind the 7.2 percent forecast
for the full fiscal year by the OBR, although the pace of growth
is expected to be boosted later this year by taxes on oil
profits and the delayed effect of the 50 percent tax rate on
incomes over 150,000 pounds. Spending rose 3.2 percent, slower
than the OBR’s 3.6 percent forecast.  Bank Levy  July is one of the biggest tax-collection months of the
year as companies make their first quarterly payments of tax on
their 2011 profits.  Revenue growth was boosted last month by a 1.4 percent
increase in corporation-tax receipts and a new levy on bank
balance sheets that contributed 660 million pounds. The levy is
expected to bring in a total of 2.4 billion pounds in the
current fiscal year, the statistics office said. There was also
a 22 percent increase in value-added tax, although this was due
to a rise in the sales-tax rate to 20 percent from 17.5 percent
in January.  In addition, there was evidence that bank bonuses withheld
in the aftermath of the financial crisis were paid this year,
boosting income-tax receipts this month, the statistics office
said. Overall self-assessment receipts relating to income tax
and capital tax were 1.2 billion pounds lower in July than a
year earlier, suggesting the impact of slower growth is being
felt.  Local government posted a surplus of 1.1 billion pounds
last month, compared with a 1 billion-pound deficit a year
earlier as some authorities retained cash grants. This effect
will prove temporary as the money is spent, the statistics
office said.  The  budget surplus  including government support for banks
was 2 billion pounds. The cash measure of the deficit was in
surplus by 5.6 billion pounds. Net debt in July was at 940.1
billion pounds, equivalent to 61.4 percent of the U.K.’s GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  