-- 
Growth Forecasts for U.S. Cut at Citigroup, JPMorgan Amid Global Slowdown

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-19T12:27:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/u-s-growth-forecasts-lowered-at-citigroup-jpmorgan-amid-global-slowdown.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  cut their U.S. growth forecasts as the global economy slows
and officials struggle to stem Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Gross domestic product will grow 1 percent in the fourth
quarter rather than the 2.5 percent previously forecast and 0.5
percent in the first quarter of 2012 instead of 1.5 percent,
JPMorgan said in a note e-mailed to clients today. Citigroup cut
its 2011 growth forecast to 1.6 percent from 1.7 percent and
lowered its projection for next year to 2.1 percent from 2.7
percent, according to a note to clients dated yesterday.  Global stocks dropped today, European shares suffered their
biggest two-day slump since 2008 and oil sank below $80 a barrel
on concern the recovery in the world’s largest economy is
faltering and  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen. Morgan Stanley
this week cut its forecast for global growth in 2011 and said
the U.S. and Europe are “dangerously close to recession.”  “The next four quarters we don’t see growth that is much
faster than the growth that took place in the first half of this
year,” said  Michael Feroli , JPMorgan’s chief U.S. economist in
 New York . “Global growth has disappointed and foreign growth
forecasts have been taken lower. Risks of a recession are
clearly elevated.”  More than $6 trillion has been erased from the value of
global equities this month on signs of a slowing U.S. economy
and speculation that European banks lack sufficient capital.
Regulators from the U.S.,  South Korea  and  Sweden  said the market
turmoil posed further risks to growth, after reports yesterday
showed American jobless claims rose and Philadelphia-area
manufacturing shrank in August by the most since 2009.  ‘Political Paralysis’  Citigroup economists Steven Wieting and Shawn Snyder wrote
that they were lowering their forecasts because of potential
“political paralysis” in the U.S. and fiscal tightening steps.
They also trimmed their estimates for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index’s earnings-per-share this year to $97 from $98 and to $101
from $105 next year.  The positioning of the economy and pace of recovery so far
“do not suggest a new cyclical recession, rather an inability
to mount a full recovery,” they wrote. “We see corporate
profits growing at a quite low single-digit pace in coming years
even with the assumption of continued economic expansion.”  JPMorgan reduced its growth forecasts for the next two
quarters because consumer sentiment has “tumbled” and “the
housing market shows little sign of lifting,” Feroli said.  Still, “declining energy prices should help to cushion
some of the weakness in the economy, and the still-low levels of
cyclically sensitive spending could reduce the chances of
getting a negative GDP quarter,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  