-- 
Ukraine to Allow Hryvnia to Fluctuate as Much as 5% a Year

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-08-19T14:36:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/ukraine-to-allow-hryvnia-to-fluctuate-as-much-as-5-a-year-1-.html
Ukraine will allow the hryvnia to
fluctuate as much as 5 percent annually to comply with
 International Monetary Fund  demands, First Deputy Central Bank
Governor Yuriy Kolobov said  “We have certain obligations to the IMF to increase the
amplitude of the hryvnia fluctuation,” Kolobov said today at a
press conference in Kiev. “There are no grounds for sharp
revaluation or devaluation.” The bank didn’t see any reason for
the hryvnia to fluctuate annually either way by more than 2
percent to 5 percent, he added.  Ukraine’s central bank controls the hryvnia exchange rate
by buying and selling foreign currency on the  interbank market .
In July, the bank bought $837.8 million and sold $1.1 billion,
allowing the hryvnia to depreciate 0.16 percent, according to
Bloomberg data. The hryvnia rose less than 0.1 percent to 7.9985
as of 5:32 p.m. in Kiev from 8.0000 yesterday.  Ukraine has $38.2 billion in gold and foreign currency
reserves, Kolobov said. The nation’s central bank hopes to reach
an agreement with the IMF to unlock lending frozen for the sixth
month, Kolobov said, adding that the Washington-based
multilateral lending agency “doesn’t’ have any questions for
the central bank.”  An IMF mission will visit Ukraine to review government
policies from Aug. 29 till Sept. 9 as the country seeks $3
billion in assistance by the end of next month, Deputy Prime
Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said June 22.  Second Bailout  Ukraine obtained its second IMF bailout in three years last
July after the global recession cut demand for exports and the
budget deficit swelled. The country has so far received two
payments totaling $3.4 billion. A third, expected in March, was
delayed after the government failed to raise the retirement age
and increase household energy prices to help balance the budget,
conditions set by the IMF.  “We followed our state budget agreements with the IMF, we
set up a special regulator that is responsible for utility
tariffs, we adopted a pension law,” said Anatoliya Myarkovskyi,
first deputy finance minister, at the same press conference. The
financial situation at the state-run energy company NAK Naftogaz
Ukrainy is the “hottest” topic in current discussions with the
IMF, he said.  The IMF wanted Ukraine’s government to raise natural gas
prices for households to eliminate Naftogaz’s  budget deficit  so
it doesn’t put pressure on the state budget.  Myarkovskyi said the government’s budget deficit reached
8.6 billion hryvnia ($1.1 billion) in the first seven months of
the year, more than three times less than in the same period a
year earlier. Inflation will reach around 10 percent this year
before slowing to 7 percent to 8 percent next year, Kolobov
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  