-- 
Forint Slump Drags Hungarian Stocks to Longest Losing Streak Since 2003

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-08-19T08:44:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/hungarian-stocks-head-for-longest-weekly-losing-run-since-2003.html
The forint tumbled against the Swiss
franc for a third day, dragging shares toward the longest streak
of weekly losses in eight years on concern the banks will face
increased defaults on foreign-currency mortgages.  The forint depreciated 0.9 percent to 242.599 per franc at
10:20 a.m. in Budapest, headed for the weakest level since Aug.
12. Against the euro, the forint slumped 0.4 percent. The
benchmark BUX index of shares retreated for a second day,
sliding 3.1 percent to 17,547.56, with OTP dropping 4.1 percent
toward the lowest level since July 2009.  OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest lender, said the
weakening forint may force the lender to set aside more cash to
cover bad loans for its operations in the country, the most-
indebted eastern member of the of the European Union. The bank’s
short- and medium-term profitability outlook “hasn’t
improved,” the lender said in a presentation distributed to
reporters today.  “Should the Swiss franc stay at these levels, OTP’s risk
costs associated with its Hungarian operations will rise,”
Laszlo Bencsik, OTP’s deputy chief executive, told reporters
today after the lender posted a 36 percent increase in second-
quarter net income.  OTP is among central European banks most at risk from the
forint’s and zloty’s weakness versus the Swiss currency,
according to ING Groep NV. A doubling of non-performing loans
denominated in the franc could cut OTP’s profit by about 20
percent, the Dutch bank wrote in a report on Aug. 9.  The depreciation of the forint against the franc and the
euro since the second quarter may put increasing pressure on
OTP’s loan portfolio in the next few quarters, Zoltan Reczey and
Zsigmond Gelencser, analysts at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt. wrote
in a research report today.  ‘Cannot Grow’  The forint has retreated 8.2 percent this year versus the
franc.  “Partly because of the unfavorable macroeconomic
environment, the loan portfolio cannot grow substantially,” the
Buda-Cash analysts added.  Citigroup Inc. cut its forecasts for expansion in the
world’s largest economy, while Morgan Stanley lowered targets
for stock indexes in Indonesia and  Singapore . Regulators from
the U.S.,  South Korea  and  Sweden  said the market turmoil posed
further risks to growth, after data yesterday showed American
jobless claims rose and a measure of manufacturing contracted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  