-- 
US Airways, Pilots Union Spar Over Alleged Work Slowdown in Court Hearing

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r k   K e m p
-- 
2011-08-19T23:46:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/us-airways-pilots-union-spar-over-alleged-work-slowdown-in-court-hearing.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and its pilots
union will return to federal court on Aug. 22 for more arguments
on the carrier’s bid for an order to end what it claims is a
work slowdown.  U.S. District Judge Robert J. Conrad Jr. today heard from
lawyers and witnesses on each side as he weighs competing
explanations for flight delays and cancellations experienced by
the country’s fifth-biggest airline. The hearing in  Charlotte ,
North Carolina, where  US Airways  has its largest airport
operations, will resume next week.  The airline’s attorney, Robert Siegel, told the judge there
is proof that the 5,200-member US Airline Pilots  Association 
“instigated a concerted action and failed to take reasonable
steps to stop it.”  The pilots’ lawyer, Brian O’Dwyer, argued that the
disruptions stem from safety concerns created by the company’s
“relentless” desire for more revenue above all else.  “In the end, this union is willing, ready and able to
cooperate,” O’Dwyer said. “What it’s not willing, ready and able
to do is compromise the safety of its members and customers.”  The airline, based in Tempe,  Arizona , has been unable to
reach a unified labor contract for its pilots since the 2005
merger of US Airways and America West Holdings Corp. because of
a dispute over how to combine the seniority lists from the two
carriers. The two pilots’ groups work under different pay scales
and rules.  US Airways sued the union last month, claiming the slowdown
violated federal labor laws and was aimed at boosting the
union’s leverage in contract talks. By that time, the union was
already pursuing its own federal labor law claims against the
airline in federal court in  Brooklyn ,  New York .  The airline’s case is US Airways v. US Airline Pilots
Association, 11-00371, U.S. District Court, Western District of
 North Carolina  (Charlotte). The union’s case is US Airline
Pilots Association v. US Airways Inc., 11-cv-2579, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Kemp at the U.S. courthouse in Charlotte, North Carolina at
   opted1@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  