-- 
Venezuela’s Debt Rating Cut by S&P on `Arbitrary Laws,' Chavez's Health

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-08-19T19:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/venezuela-s-debt-rating-is-downgaded-to-b-from-bb-by-standard-poor-s.html
Venezuela had its credit ratings cut
for the first time since 2006 by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited
concern over the country’s “changing and arbitrary laws” as
well as the health of President  Hugo Chavez .  S&P cut Venezuela’s credit rating one level to B+, or four
steps below investment grade, according to a statement that said
the company is now giving more weight to political risk in its
evaluations. The downgrade comes after Chavez ordered the
central bank to repatriate as much as $11 billion of  gold
reserves  as he battles with an undisclosed type of cancer.  “If you think about the context of gold prices, it’s not
easy to understand why you would bring them back,” Roberto
Sifon Arevalo, an S&P analyst in New York, said in a phone
interview.  Venezuela ’s international reserves held abroad were
“a strength of the rating, and with this movement that
situation is going to change, which adds extra uncertainty.”  Venezuela,  South America ’s largest oil producer, has the
highest borrowing costs of major emerging-market economies
because of nationalizations, a lack of transparency in
government finances and billions of dollars in debt issuance a
year. Chavez, who has led the OPEC nation since 1999, has said
he will seek another six-year term in presidential elections in
2012 as questions about his health mount.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Venezuelan
 government bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1229 at 3:20 p.m. New York
time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data. Ecuadorean debt
has a spread of 900 basis points, while  Mexico ’s is 180.  Domestic Economy  Venezuela’s “changing and arbitrary” laws, price controls
and other factors have hurt its domestic economy, S&P said. The
outlook for the rating is stable.  Chavez, 57, had surgery in Cuba on June 20 to remove a
“baseball-sized” cancerous tumor. He has since received two
phases of chemotherapy treatment on the Caribbean island.  Arevalo said Chavez’s decision to repatriate the gold
reserves will make it more difficult for Venezuela to sell the
metal for cash if needed.  An official at the  Finance Ministry  said he was unable to
immediately comment, and an official at the Information Ministry
declined to comment on the downgrade.  Yields on the government’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 fell nine basis points to 13.99 percent at 2:30
p.m. in  New York , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
price rose 0.45 cent on the dollar to 69.93 cents.  Venezuela joins Bolivia, Paraguay and Suriname as Latin
American nations with the B+ rating. Moody’s assigns Venezuela a
B2 grade, while Fitch also gives Venezuela a B+.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  