-- 
Vietnam May Free Rice Stockpiles to Cool Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-19T02:10:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/vietnam-may-free-rice-stockpiles-to-cool-prices.html
Vietnam , the world’s second-largest
rice exporter, may release grain held in government stockpiles
to cool the local market after a surge in export demand helped
to drive domestic prices to a record.  “We are ready and will immediately sell the national rice
stockpile, which is more than 1 million tons, to cool domestic
rice prices if there is any sign of food-price fever,” Diep Kinh Tan, deputy minister of agriculture and rural development,
said by phone yesterday. The ministry hadn’t seen signs that
such a move is necessary yet, he said.  Thailand, the biggest shipper and Vietnam’s main rival, is
bringing back a policy of buying rice from farmers at above-
market prices to boost rural incomes, pushing Thai export rates
to the highest level since February 2010. Costlier rice, staple
for half the world, boosts food costs and helps fan inflation
even amid signs that global economic growth may be faltering.  “In the last two weeks, we’ve seen a 10 percent increase
in prices in Vietnam, compared to say 2 percent or 3 percent
elsewhere,” said Darren Cooper, London-based senior economist
at the  International Grains Council . Given the developments in
 Thailand , as well an export ban on some Indian rice grades,
“everybody’s been looking at Vietnam as the obvious supplier.”  Rough-rice on the Chicago Board of Trade, which traded at
$17.12 per 100 pounds at 8:23 a.m. in  Singapore , has rallied 55
percent in the past year, beating wheat and soybeans. The price
of 100 percent grade-B Thai rice, the export benchmark, was $582
per metric ton on Aug. 17, 22 percent higher than a year ago.  Food Crisis  India , the second-biggest grower, banned private companies
from exporting non-basmati rice in April 2008 to bolster local
supplies amid a global food crisis. The country may consider
allowing extra exports, Food Minister K.V. Thomas said Aug. 17.  Worldwide food costs reached an all-time high in February
and remained within 2 percent of that peak in June, according to
a 55-item gauge from the Food & Agriculture Organization. Global
food prices remain close to their peak and low stockpiles may
contribute to higher prices, the  World Bank  said on Aug. 15.  Vietnamese domestic unmilled rice was 7,100 dong (34 cents)
to 7,200 dong per kilogram this week, a record, according to Cao
Thi Ngoc Hoa, deputy head of  Vietnam Southern Food Corp ., one of
the country’s two biggest state-owned food companies. Prices
were about 6,500 dong in the week to July 28, according to data
on the website of the Vietnam Food Association’s, or VFA.  “Some companies signed more forward contracts this year on
anticipation that domestic prices would fall, which usually
happens when the harvest begins,” Hoa said by phone on Aug. 17.
“Prices didn’t drop, they rose instead, so those companies had
to buy in a hurry and that pushed up prices even more.”  Chinese Demand  Demand for Vietnamese rice has increased in traditional and
new markets this year, the VFA said on July 15.  China  has
started buying from Vietnam after bad weather hurt its crop,
Deputy Agriculture Minister Tan said the same day.  Vietnam, which exported a record 6.75 million tons last
year, according to the VFA, is targeting 7.4 million tons of
exports this year, and will try to ship more given good crops
and prices, Tan told Bloomberg last month. Exports in the first
seven months of 2011 were estimated at 4.7 million tons, 9
percent higher than a year earlier, according to figures from
the General Statistics Office in Hanoi released on July 22.  The country has so far signed contracts to export about 6.3
million tons in 2011, Huynh Minh Hue, the VFA’s general-
secretary, said Aug. 17. About 1.5 million tons of that total
have yet to be shipped, which may sustain high prices, he said.  Increased Output  Prices have risen even as the country expects production to
be higher this year than in 2010. Output of unmilled rice may
increase 4 percent to 41.6 million tons, according to an Aug. 16
statement on the Vietnamese  government website  that cited a
Ministry of Agriculture and  Rural Development  forecast.  “Prices are so high because export demand exceeded
available supply,” the VFA’s Hue said in an e-mailed response
to Bloomberg questions. Prices may remain “firm” until the
first quarter of 2012, depending on Thai rates and whether India
resumes exports, he said.  Vietnamese exporters delayed shipments after prices climbed,
according to Chookiat Ophaswongse, honorary president of the
Thai Rice Exporters Association, prompting African, Indonesian
and Philippine buyers to switch purchases to Thailand. Thai
exporters may receive orders for as much as 100,000 tons as a
result, Chookiat said by telephone from Bangkok yesterday.  As of Aug. 15, Vietnamese 5-percent broken rice for export
was $568 a ton, compared to $549 a ton for Thai 5-percent broken
rice, according to International Grains Council data. At the
start of the month, the Vietnamese grade was priced at a $22
discount. Thai grades typically trade at a $20 to $40 premium to
their Vietnamese equivalents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  