-- 
Postrel: Where is the Next Steve Jobs?

-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 
2011-08-19T00:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/want-to-be-like-apple-lose-the-bafflegab-commentary-by-virginia-postrel.html
Everybody, it seems, wants to be
like Apple Inc.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is buying Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc., many observers say, so it can integrate hardware and
software to be like Apple (and to enlarge its patent pool).  Last week,  Joel Ewanick , the global chief marketing officer
at General Motors,  declared  that “it’s time to clearly
differentiate our brand and align closer to a true global brand
like Apple.” Translation: We want to be like Apple.  Apple has topped Fortune magazine’s list of “Most Admired
Companies” four years running. This month it was briefly the
most valuable company in the world. Even holding the No. 2
market capitalization is pretty amazing for a company that
almost died in 1997, when it was valued at less than $3 billion.  To many people, Apple’s success seems like magic. Others
attribute it to cool products, good marketing, and  Steve Jobs ’s
charisma or presentation skills. Critics credit the Apple co-
founder’s ability to project a “ reality distortion field .”  In his new book “Good Strategy, Bad Strategy: The
Difference and Why It Matters,”  Richard P. Rumelt , a strategy
professor at UCLA’s Anderson School of Management, offers
another explanation: the ruthless execution of good strategy.  Strategy is not what many people think it is. It is not a
fill-in-the-blanks mission statement blathering about how XYZ
Corp. will ethically serve its stakeholders by implementing
best-in-class integrated sustainable practices to grow as a
global leader while maximizing shareholder value. Such bafflegab
is  “Dilbert“-fodder  that generates cynicism and contempt. It
is, at best, a big waste of time.  Neither is strategy a declaration that the ABC Co. will
increase sales by 20 percent a year for the next five years,
with a profit margin of at least 20 percent. Strategy is not the
resolve to hunker down and try harder -- what Kenichi Ohmae of
McKinsey criticized in a 1989 Harvard Business Review  article  as
“do more better.” Effort is not strategy. Neither are
financial projections. And neither are wishes.  A strategy “is a way of dealing with a high-stakes
challenge,” Rumelt told me in an interview. “It’s a way around
the obstacles or problems in a difficult situation.”  Every good strategy, he writes, includes what he calls the
kernel: a “diagnosis” of the challenge (“What’s going on
here?”), a “guiding policy” for dealing with that challenge
(the core idea often called a strategy), and a set of “coherent
actions” to carry out that policy (the implementation).  For his friend Stephanie’s corner grocery, Rumelt writes,
the diagnosis was competition from a large 24-hour supermarket,
the guiding policy was “to serve the busy professional who has
little time to cook,” and the coherent actions included
stocking more prepared meals and opening an extra checkout stand
at 5:00 p.m.  This strategy not only told Stephanie what to do but what
she had to stop doing. Selling more prepared meals meant taking
space away from the munchies for her many student customers. To
focus labor expenses on the peak times for her professional
customers, she closed earlier, meaning no sales from late-night
study breaks. “Strategy is scarcity’s child and to have a
strategy, rather than vague aspirations, is to choose one path
and eschew others,” writes Rumelt.  A strategy is not a goal like maximizing  shareholder value 
or keeping America safe from terrorism. It’s not even a plan. It
is a design -- a coherent approach to defining and solving a
particular problem, in which the different elements have to work
together.  In this analysis, Steve Jobs is not only a connoisseur and
sponsor of good design. He is himself a successful designer --
not of products but of business strategies.  Apple’s recent success has made people forget not only how
close the company came to failing but also what Jobs did to turn
it around when he returned as chief executive in 1997. He
diagnosed Apple’s problem: It was hemorrhaging cash and its
product lineup was too diverse, confusing and expensive.  In response, Rumelt explains, Jobs “redesigned the whole
business logic around a simplified product line sold through a
limited set of outlets.” He cut product offerings down to two:
a desktop and a laptop, and no peripherals. He moved most
manufacturing to  Taiwan , cut software development, and
eliminated all but one national retailer, opening a Web store to
sell directly to consumers.  And, yes, Jobs also got  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to invest $150
million in Apple and to commit to continuing to make Mac
versions of key software. But that agreement wouldn’t have
helped much without the rest of the strategy. “I don’t know how
he learned that ruthlessness,” Rumelt says. But it worked.  What Jobs did not do, the book suggests, is equally
telling. He avoided all the management responses that masquerade
as strategies. “He did not announce ambitious revenue or profit
goals; he did not indulge in messianic visions of the future,”
Rumelt writes. “And he did not just cut in a blind ax-wielding
frenzy.”  The organization’s new, coherent design bought the company
time and gave it a clear identity on which to build. Apple’s
gutsy decision to open its own retail stores in 2001 made sense
only in the context of its new strategy.  Rumelt, who is a business consultant as well as one of the
most-cited scholars in his field, met Jobs in 1998, while
working for  Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)  Rumelt congratulated Jobs on the
turnaround but expressed skepticism about Apple’s chances of
overcoming the Windows-Intel lock on personal computers. “What
are you going to do in the longer term?” Rumelt asked. “What’s
the strategy?”  Jobs, he recalls, “just smiled and said, ‘I am going to
wait for the next big thing.’”  Jobs recognized that Apple couldn’t change the realities of
the PC business. It needed a change in the environment that
would make possible a new strategy, oriented toward growth this
time rather than survival. He found that opportunity with the
iPod and online music.  “Strategy is not a magic potion for overcoming any
obstacle,” says Rumelt. “The part that’s hard to write about,
that people reject, that they don’t want to hear me say, is that
you may be facing an obstacle you can’t deal with. Choose a
different obstacle. Play games you can win.”  Rumelt says he was motivated to write his book in part
because he believes “bad strategy” -- or, perhaps more
accurately, pseudo-strategy or even anti-strategy -- has become
increasingly pervasive, not only in business but in all sorts of
non-commercial organizations. Feeling obliged to articulate a
“strategy” (or compelled to by orders from the board or
Congress), people cook up statements that lack the clear-eyed
analysis, real choices and coherent actions that good strategy
demands.  For example, in 2008 the  Los Angeles Unified School
District  adopted seven  “key strategies,”  including to “build
school and District leadership teams that share common beliefs,
values and high expectations for all adults and students and
that support a cycle of continuous improvement to ensure high-
quality instruction in their schools.”  That is a hope, a goal, or perhaps a prescription for North
Korean-style totalitarian conformity. Whatever it is, the
statement is not a strategy. It offers no guide to action. It is
all too typical of “strategy” -- in the private sector as well
as the government, in huge multinational corporations and small
local charities.  Bad strategy, Rumelt writes, goes wrong in four common
ways. Many bad strategies are just superficial nonsense
expressed in big words, which Rumelt very politely calls
“fluff.” Others fail to define the challenge. Some mistake
goals or wishes, for strategy. And some set impossible
objectives rather than focusing on modest but achievable ones.  Even when it doesn’t lead to bad decision-making, Rumelt
argues, formulating bad strategy hurts organizations. “You use
up the psychological and intellectual resources that could be
used for figuring out what we should actually be doing around
here, creating these things,” he told me. “If the very top
management of the company puts together a retreat for the top 50
executives and what they come out with is a financial forecast,
that’s a misuse of the knowledge and energy in the group.”  So if you really want to be like Apple, drop the fluff-
filled vision statements and magical wishes. Pretend your
company’s existence is at stake, coldly evaluate the
environment, and make choices. Stop thinking of strategy as
meaningless verbiage or financial goals and treat it as a
serious design challenge.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 