-- 
Wheat Prices Rise, Cap Fourth Straight Weekly Gain, on Winter-Crop Concern

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-08-19T19:50:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/wheat-rises-most-in-a-week-as-dry-u-s-plains-may-cut-winter-crop-output.html
Wheat futures rose, capping the
fourth straight weekly gain, on speculation that U.S. production
will decline as dry weather in the southern Great Plains hinders
winter-crop seeding in the next two months.  Southern  Kansas ,  Oklahoma  and  Texas  will be mostly dry in
the next six to 10 days, with only “a few light showers” and
temperatures “above to well-above normal” in the west and
south, Telvent DTN said in a report. Many areas had half of
normal rain this year, according to the  National Weather
Service . Planting of the winter variety usually starts in
September.  “You hold out hope, but after nine or 10 months of below-
normal rainfall, you start to wonder if it’s ever going to
rain,”  Jason Britt , the president of Central States Commodities
Inc., a broker in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , said in a telephone
interview. “As each week goes by, I think we’ll ratchet up a
little more weather premium” in prices, he said.  Wheat futures for December delivery rose 22 cents, or 3
percent, to settle at $7.6125 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, capping the biggest gain for a most-
active contract since Aug. 2. The commodity, up 4 percent this
week, has climbed 10 percent since July 22.  Winter wheat goes dormant after planting until February or
March and is harvested beginning in June. Hard, red-winter
wheat, the most common variety in the U.S., is used to make
bread.  National Australia Bank Ltd. cut its forecast for
Australian wheat output to 21.8 million metric tons in the year
beginning Oct. 1, or 12 percent below its estimate in April. Dry
weather in the east may lower yields, the bank said.  The Australian government’s crop  projection  is 26.2 million
tons.  The U.S. is the world’s biggest wheat exporter. The grain
is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $13 billion in 2010,
behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  