-- 
Taliban Kill Eight People in Bombing at British Cultural Center in Kabul

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-08-20T00:17:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/two-explosions-strike-british-council-cultural-center-in-afghan-capital.html
Taliban guerrillas disguised as
women attacked a British cultural center in Kabul, killing eight
people and injuring 22, as Afghans marked their country’s full
independence from Britain.  Two early morning car bomb explosions jolted Kabul
yesterday and raised a column of black smoke from the compound
of the  British Council , a U.K. government-backed cultural and
educational organization. The attack was the deadliest in Kabul
since Taliban guerrillas killed 12 people in a five-hour
commando assault on the  Hotel Intercontinental  on June 29.  Four Afghan police, along with two Afghan and two foreign
security guards employed by the center, were killed in the
attack, the Afghan Interior Ministry said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. None of the three British nationals involved
were hurt, the U.K. Foreign Office said.  “Some insurgents managed to enter the compound after the
first bomber detonated a small truck packed with explosives in
the entrance gate,” Interior Ministry spokesman Sediq Siddiqi
said in a phone interview. A second explosion occurred as police
surrounded the compound.  A  New Zealand  special forces soldier died on his way to the
hospital after being shot in the chest by an insurgent while
attempting to free people trapped in the council buildings
following the attack, Chief of Defence Force Lieutenant General
Rhys Jones told reporters in Auckland today.  British Targeted  The four men were dressed in Burqas and wearing suicide
vests and a gun battle started as they entered the compound, the
ministry said. The attackers barricaded themselves inside the
building and two were shot dead and two others blew themselves
up after an extended firefight. The two other members of the
six-strong insurgent team died when they detonated the car
bombs.  The  Taliban movement  “targeted the British Council to mark
our independence day,” Taliban spokesman  Zabihullah Mujahed 
said in a phone interview. The attack came on the day that
Afghans commemorate a 1919 treaty in which the British empire
recognized the full independence of Afghanistan’s kings, after
years of having taken a role in Afghan political affairs.  “This was a particularly vicious and cowardly attack but
it’s an attack that hasn’t succeeded,” U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  told reporters yesterday. “It won’t deflect us
from the vital work we’re doing in Afghanistan.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  also condemned the
violence, saying in a statement that “brutal attacks such as
these will not lessen our resolve or our commitment to
 Afghanistan  and the region.”  New Zealand Prime Minister  New Zealand Prime Minister John Key told reporters in
Auckland today that “it’s not my view that we should reconsider
our commitment in Afghanistan.” New Zealand’s soldiers in the
country “should remain on task and on track,” he said.  The New Zealand soldier’s death is first in Afghanistan for
New Zealand’s special forces, Lieutenant Rhys Jones said. He is
also the nation’s third combat death in Afghanistan since
August, 2010, according to the New Zealand Herald newspaper.  The bombs shattered windows hundreds of yards away in
Kabul’s Kart-e-Parwan district, including at the home of a
former foreign minister and presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah, said Ali Farhad Howaida, an aide to Abdullah.  ‘Complete Surprise’  Two British female English language teachers were in the
building with their bodyguard and locked themselves in a secure
room, Martin Davidson, chief executive of the British Council,
told reporters in  London . Davidson said the Council, which had
been taken by “complete surprise” by the attack, will continue
with its educational work in Afghanistan.  “All British nationals affected are now safe,” Foreign
Office Minister Alistair Burt said in a statement released in
London. “It is a sad fact that once again an attack aimed at
the international community has killed Afghans.  ‘‘This attack, against people working to help build a
better future for Afghanistan, will not lessen the U.K.’s
resolve to support the Afghan people,’’ Burt said. The British
Council in Afghanistan runs programs to train teachers and
develop curricula in Afghan schools, according to  its Website .  The previous Taliban commando attack, against the Hotel
Intercontinental, targeted foreign and Afghan officials who had
gathered for meetings. The hotel is unaffiliated with the
InterContinental Hotels Group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  