-- 
Yen Climbs to Postwar Record Amid Global Slowdown Concern; Franc Advances

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-19T21:24:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/yen-rises-to-record-versus-dollar.html
The yen rallied to the strongest
level since World War II versus the dollar as the U.S. economic
slowdown and  Europe ’s debt crisis stoked concern global growth
is slumping, bolstering the refuge appeal of Japan’s currency.  The franc gained against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts even after the  Swiss National Bank  said this week
it may take further steps to curb the currency’s strength. The
euro erased losses versus the dollar and yen on speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will consider measures to help ease financial-
market turmoil. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks at an
economic conference next week in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  “We’re not seeing a jump in risk-seeking in the currency
world; the safe havens are still favored,” said Brian Kim, a
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit in  Stamford , Connecticut. “The market is pretty
wary after the last couple of days. We’ve seen people paring
down expectations for the global outlook and people want to play
it cautious until Bernanke speaks next Friday.”  The yen touched 75.95 per dollar, the strongest postwar
level, before trading at 76.55 at 5 p.m. in New York, compared
with 76.58 yesterday. The currency gained 0.2 percent on the
week. It had slid to 80.24 on Aug 4, the weakest since July 12,
after the  Bank of Japan  sold yen. The euro rose 0.5 percent to
$1.4397, after touching a three-week high of $1.4518 on Aug. 17,
and gained 0.4 percent to 110.20 yen.  ‘Surprise’ Intervention  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  signaled he’s
ready to do another “surprise” intervention in markets to curb
yen gains. Noda said yesterday he “will keep monitoring markets
carefully” and that intervention “is a measure of last resort
-- it would be meaningless if it were not a surprise.”  Takehiko Nakao,  Japan ’s vice finance minister for
international affairs, said he discussed “the yen and global
financial markets” with Bank of Japan Executive Director
Hiroshi Nakaso at the bank’s headquarters in  Tokyo  yesterday.  “We are more cautious on dollar-yen, with latest comments
from MoF vice-minister for international affairs Nakao seen
adding to the risk that we are close to a fresh burst of
intervention from the BOJ,” analysts led by Ray Attrill, head
of currency strategy for BNP Paribas SA in New York, wrote to
clients. “The temptation to sell into intervention-inspired
rallies is nevertheless likely to prove quite overwhelming.”  The yen has risen beyond the level that prompted Japan to
unilaterally sell the currency on Aug. 4, its first intervention
in  currency markets  since March. Central banks intervene by
selling or buying currencies to influence prices.  The Japanese currency gained 5.6 percent over the past
three months, making it the second-best performer among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. The franc, the biggest gainer, rose
12 percent, while the dollar is down 1.7 percent.  Franc Strengthens  The franc advanced 0.7 percent to 1.1303 per euro, from
1.1380 yesterday. The Swiss currency climbed 1.2 percent to
78.51 centimes per dollar, from 79.41 centimes.  The yen and franc tend to strengthen during economic and
financial turmoil because Japan’s and Switzerland’s current
account surpluses makes them less reliant on foreign capital.  Gold rose to a record above $1,880 an ounce in  New York ,
while equities fell. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was down
1.5 percent, while the MSCI World Index dropped 1.6 percent.  ‘Global Slowdown’  “The global slowdown led by that in the U.S. and the
European sovereign-debt crisis have been weighing on global
stock markets and contributing to yen strength,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group in
Greenwich, Connecticut. “It’s not an independently strong yen.
There are so many factors.”  Speculation increased this week that U.S. regulators are
stepping up scrutiny of local operations for Europe’s largest
banks on concern that the sovereign debt crisis may lead to
funding problems. New York Fed President William C. Dudley said
yesterday the central bank always keeps an eye on the
performance of U.S. and foreign banks, not monitoring one group
more than the other.  Bernanke may announce policy intentions at the Kansas City
Fed’s economic conference in  Jackson Hole  on Aug. 26, according
to  Marc Faber , publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report, on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt
and  Tom Keene . The Fed will extend its debt-purchasing, he said.  Last year at the event Bernanke foreshadowed a second round
of bond purchases. The central bank bought $600 billion in
Treasuries from November through June.  South Korea’s won was the biggest loser against the dollar
today after Financial Supervisory Service Governor Kwon Hyouk Se
asked insurers to refrain from paying dividends and boost
capital in preparation for a potential crisis.  The won fell 1.3 percent versus the dollar to 1,087.55,
from 1,074 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  