-- 
Yields Slip to Nine-Month Low as Inflation Bets, Stocks Fall: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-08-19T04:32:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/yields-slip-to-nine-month-low-as-inflation-bets-stocks-fall-japan-credit.html
Japan ’s bonds are back where they
were nine months ago as prospects for inflation evaporated and a
plunge in the stock market sent investors to the haven of
government debt.  The 10-year yield set a new low for the year today, and its
spread with the two-year note narrowed to 84 basis points, the
least since Nov. 12. The gains in Japanese bonds have lagged
behind a global rally as signs of slowing growth in the U.S. and
Europe sparked a surge in overseas debt.  Japanese debt maturing in more than a year has returned 1.1
percent in 2011, the smallest gain among the 26 bond indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. It’s still better than how investors have
fared with Japanese shares. The Topix Index has dived 16 percent
so far this year, set for its worst performance in three years,
compared with a 11 percent slide in the MSCI World Index of
shares.  “Bond yields are expressed in  risk premium , expectations
for inflation and economic growth, and such expectations for
Japan had been already low,” limiting declines in yields, said
Toru Suehiro, a market analyst in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities
Co., one of the 25 primary dealers obliged to bid at the
government’s debt sales. “The coupon rates are substantially
lower, too.”  Treasuries due in more than a year have risen 7.8 percent,
according to the EFFAS indexes, while the bonds of Greece and
Portugal have fallen more than 13 percent.  ‘Global Slowdown’  The yield on Japan’s benchmark 10-year note reached 0.970
percent today, the least since November. The rate on the two-
year security slid half a basis point to 0.14 percent. Ten-year
debt yields 4.94 percent in  Italy , 10.2 percent for Portugal and
15.6 percent for  Greece .  “Japan’s bonds are different from Greece and Italian bonds
because Japan’s debt is largely held by domestic investors,”
said Tomohisa Fujiki, an interest-rate strategist in Tokyo at a
unit of BNP Paribas SA. “Japan’s yields may move downward again
if a global slowdown pushes equities lower. Fiscal risk and
concerns about additional bond issuance could prevent such a
drop in the yields to some extent.”  Yields on U.S. Treasuries tumbled to a record low this
month after the  Federal Reserve  said it will leave its key
 interest rates  near zero for two years to sustain the economy.
Demand for the safety of  government bonds  was also bolstered
worldwide as stocks slumped amid signs  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen.  World’s Lowest Yields  The  Bank of Japan , the pioneer of so-called quantitative
easing, has more than quadrupled monthly purchases of government
bonds since March 2001 to spur growth. The nation’s economy has
barely grown on a nominal basis for the past two decades, while
entrenched deflation enhanced the value of the fixed payments
from debt, keeping its bond yields at the world’s lowest levels.  Japan’s breakeven rate, or the difference between yields on
five-year notes and inflation-linked debt, fell to negative 0.47
percent today, the most deflationary since April, from a peak of
minus 0.15 in June. The nation’s consumer prices excluding fresh
food have declined every month since March 2009.  The Fed has undertaken two rounds of quantitative easing
since the global financial crisis struck in 2008. U.S. gross
domestic product grew at a less-than-estimated 1.3 percent pace
in the second quarter.  ‘No Prescription’  “I don’t think quantitative easing is a prescription for
economic recovery,” said Daisuke Uno, Tokyo-based chief
strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., which manages $965
billion in customer deposits. The U.S. experience “has
confirmed that.”  The 10-year Treasury yield sank to a record 1.9735 percent
yesterday. The extra yield it offers over same-maturity Japanese
notes fell to 1.04 percentage points today, the least since
January 2009. A lower spread reduces the attractiveness of
dollar-denominated assets relative to Japan’s, putting upward
pressure on the yen.  The dollar fell to 76.30 yen on Aug. 1, approaching the
postwar record of 76.25 reached on March 17. It traded at 76.54
yen as of 12:53 p.m. in  Tokyo  today.  Japan intervened in  currency markets  on Aug. 4 to weaken
the yen, the third time it has done so in the past 12 months.
Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said yesterday
intervention needs to surprise and he’s ready to act to stem
gains in the yen that could derail an export-led recovery.  Gains in the yen have made Japanese debt a better
investment for overseas investors. Japanese government bonds
returned 11.7 percent in the past 12 months in dollar terms,
compared with 5.5 percent from Treasuries, indexes compiled by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch showed.  ‘More Attractive’  Japan’s debt “becomes significantly more attractive than
U.S. Treasuries” if investors swap it into foreign currencies,
said Christian Carrillo, head of Asia-Pacific interest-rate
strategy in Tokyo at Societe Generale SA, another primary
dealer.  Japanese government debt reached 200 percent of gross
domestic product last year, according to data from the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The ratio
was less than 150 percent for Greece, Italy and  Portugal .  The debt burden may further increase as Japanese lawmakers
are planning to introduce a third spending package for
rebuilding after a record earthquake and subsequent tsunami in
March. The expenditure will be about 10 trillion yen ($131
billion),  Katsuya Okada , secretary-general of the ruling
 Democratic Party  of Japan, said last month.  Domestic Holders  Domestic investors owned 95 percent of Japan’s debt as of
March 31, according to a  report  from the Ministry of Finance.  Credit-default swaps for Japanese government debt, used to
speculate on  credit quality , rose to 108.75 basis points on Aug.
11, the highest since March 16, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices in the
privately negotiated market. The swaps traded at 104.4 basis
points yesterday.  While Japan’s debt lags behind its global peers in terms of
returns, its low volatility appeals to some overseas investors,
said Mizuho’s Suehiro. The historical volatility of the nation’s
10-year bonds was 26 based on 60-day reading, about half that
for Treasuries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  