-- 
Thyroid Radiation Exposure Found in Children Near Tepco Plant

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-08-19T09:49:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/thyroid-radiation-exposure-found-in-children-near-tepco-plant.html
Medical tests on children living in
three towns near the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant
found 45 percent of those surveyed suffered low-level thyroid
 radiation exposure ,  Japan ’s government said in a statement.  While the statement didn’t comment on the source of the
contamination, the announcement follows reports of radioactive
material found in food after radiation leaks from the meltdown
of three reactors at the Tokyo Electric Power Co. plant.  The tests covered 1,080 children aged up to 15 in three
towns, Iwaki, Kawamata and Iitate, between 38 to 47 kilometers
from the reactors. The tests between March 24 and 30 showed none
of the children’s thyroid glands exceeded the safety threshold
of 0.2 microsievert per hour set by the Nuclear Safety
Commission of Japan, according to the Aug. 17 statement.  At least one child had 0.1 microsievert per hour, the
highest level observed, while more than half of those exposed
absorbed 0.01 microsievert per hour, the statement said.
Children are susceptible to poisoning from radioactive iodine,
which can accumulate in the thyroid and cause cancer,
according to the  World Health Organization .  On June 6, Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency
said the reactor meltdowns at the plant released about 770,000
tera becquerels of radioactive material into the air between
March 11 and March 16, doubling an earlier estimate.  Chernobyl  That’s about 14 percent of the radiation emitted in the
Chernobyl disaster in modern-day Ukraine. About 2 million people
in Ukraine are under permanent medical monitoring 25 years after
the accident, according to the nation’s embassy in Tokyo.  A becquerel represents one radioactive decay per second,
which involves the release of atomic energy that can damage
human cells and DNA, with prolonged exposure causing leukemia
and other forms of cancer, according to the  World Nuclear
Association .  While 203 people were hospitalized and 31 died after the
explosion at Chernobyl, about 400,000 children are considered to
have received significant doses of radiation to their thyroid
that merit monitoring, the embassy said.  Cases of thyroid cancer in  Belarus , which neighbors
Ukraine, increased for at least 10 years after 1986 in children
younger than 14 and for almost 20 years among 20-24 year olds,
according to research by Shunichi Yamashita of Nagasaki
University, who was appointed as an adviser to Fukushima
prefecture on radiation exposure.  Food Tests  Japan has no centralized system to check for radiation
contamination of food, leaving local authorities and farmers
conducting voluntary tests.  Products such as spinach, tea, milk, and fish have been
found contaminated with cesium and iodine as far as 360
kilometers (224 miles) from the plant.  Adding to the concern, officials confirmed today rice from
Hokota City, about 150 kilometers from Dai-Ichi, was found to
contain low levels or cesium. It was the first confirmation of
rice contamination since the March 11 accident.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  