-- 
Hyundai Heavy, Korea Shipyards Fall as Europe Debt Concerns May Hit Orders

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-08-19T06:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/hyundai-heavy-korea-shipyards-fall-as-europe-debt-concerns-may-hit-orders.html
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the
world’s biggest shipyard, fell the most in almost three years in
 Seoul  trading as Korean shipbuilders tumbled on concerns that an
economic slowdown and European debt crisis may sap orders.  The shipbuilder dropped 11 percent, the biggest decline
since Nov. 20, 2008, at close in Seoul. Daewoo Shipbuilding &
Marine Engineering Co. fell 14 percent and Hanjin Heavy
Industries & Construction Co. declined by the daily 15 percent
limit, the worst performer on the MSCI AC Asia Pacific Index.  Ship orders may slow this year because of concerns about
world trade and a possible tightening of credit by European
lenders, among the biggest financiers of new ships, said Cho In Karp, head of research at Heungkuk Securities Co. in Seoul. Lars
Frisell, chief economist at  Sweden ’s financial regulator, said
this week it won’t take much for interbank lending to freeze and
the Wall Street Journal reported that regulators are
scrutinizing the U.S. operations of  Europe ’s biggest banks.  “There’s panic in the market,” Cho said. “Concerns about
an economic slowdown could drastically cut orders for new
vessels for this year.”  Morgan Stanley reduced its forecast for global growth this
year, citing an “insufficient” policy response to Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis, weaker confidence and the prospect of
fiscal tightening.  Samsung Heavy Industries Co., the world’s second-largest
shipyard, dropped 11 percent and  Hyundai Mipo Dockyard (010620)  Co., a
unit of Hyundai Heavy, fell 6.6 percent.  Global ship orders fell 44 percent to 43 million deadweight
tons in the first seven months of the year, according to
 Clarkson Plc , the world’s largest shipbroker.  Hyundai Heavy, based in Ulsan,  South Korea , separately said
it had won an order to build two liquefied-natural gas carriers
from Dynagas Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  