-- Ackmans Pledge $10 Million to Support Human Rights Watch
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-05-24T17:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/ackmans-pledge-10-million-to-support-human-rights-watch.html
Bill Ackman , chief executive officer
of Pershing Square Capital Management LP, and his wife, Karen,
have pledged $10 million to the New York-based  Human Rights
Watch  Inc.  The Ackmans’  Pershing Square Foundation  will give $2
million a year during the next five years to the nonprofit. The
money will be used to expand its advocacy to countries including
 Brazil ,  India  and  South Africa  and increase its research
capabilities in the 90 nations it currently monitors, said
Executive Director Ken Roth in a phone interview.  “I’m extremely supportive of Human Rights Watch’s
expansion of its global mandate,” Bill Ackman, 46, said in a
phone interview. “Independence and free speech are issues that
are very important to me.”  The hedge-fund manager said he is impressed with Roth’s
leadership of the organization and the commitment of his staff.  “Bill sees parallels in the methodology of Human Rights
Watch and his own methodology,” Roth said. “Each of us uses
public pressure to improve the target organization’s
performance.”  The Ackmans began giving to HRW in 2003 after a friend
invited him to one of its dinners, he said. Karen Ackman joined
the board in 2009 and now serves on its  Africa  and Women’s
Rights advisory committees. They are among the top five donors
to the nonprofit.  (Philanthropist  George Soros  became the largest donor to
Human Rights Watch when he pledged $100 million in 2010.)  Donations Top $140 Million  Since starting their Pershing Square Foundation in December
2006, the Ackmans have given more than $140 million in grants to
education, human rights, health care, economic empowerment and
the arts. In January, they gave $25 million to New York’s
nonprofit  Signature Theatre  Co.  About two years ago, they pledged $25 million to the
Newark, New Jersey, school system. Karen Ackman, a landscape
architect, serves on the board of  Friends of the High Line , a
nonprofit that helps maintain the public park built on an
elevated freight rail line on Manhattan’s West Side.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at
   pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 