-- Rubber Shippers Buy to Halt 51% Price Slump That Helped Goodyear
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-05-24T09:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/thai-rubber-exporters-begin-buying-in-tokyo-shanghai-1-.html
Rubber exporters from Thailand, the
world’s largest producer, have started purchases on the Tokyo
and  Shanghai  exchanges to shore up prices, according to the Thai 
Rubber Association.  “Exporters have bought the rubber on the exchanges as it
is cheap,” President Prapas Euanontat said by phone from the
southern province of Nakhon Si Thammarat. He declined to specify
the amount. Shippers will continue buying on overseas bourses
“until local prices climb to 120 baht ($3.79) a kilogram, the
level the government would like to see.”  Futures have plunged 51 percent from a record in February
2011, cutting costs for tire makers such as  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) ,
 Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  and  Michelin & Cie. (ML)  Prices slumped as
China, the biggest user, expanded last quarter at its slowest
pace in almost three years and  Europe  struggled to contain its
debt crisis. Chinese vehicle sales dropped 1.3 percent in the
first four months, the worst performance since 1998, said the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  Thailand announced plans last week to buy more than 10,000
metric tons in Tokyo and Shanghai and to continue purchases from
local farmers at above-market rates to drive prices higher. The
country will work with Indonesia and  Malaysia  to tackle the
slump, said deputy farm minister  Nattawut Saikuar . The three
nations represent about 70 percent of global supply.  Price Slumps  “At current prices, producers in Malaysia and Indonesia
don’t want to plant new trees,” said Pongsak Kerdvongbundit,
the group’s honorary president. “Currently there is no
shortage. But when the world economy recovers there won’t be
extra supply to fill any gap,” he said yesterday at the 2012
World Rubber Summit in  Singapore .  Rubber for delivery in October lost 1.7 percent to end at
265 yen kilogram ($3,338 a metric ton), the lowest settlement
price for the most-active contract since Dec. 30, on the  Tokyo 
Commodity Exchange.  Global natural rubber consumption is set to expand 3.4
percent to 11.3 million tons this year, while production climbs
3.2 percent also to 11.3 million tons, the  International Rubber
Study Group  said. The Chinese economy will expand 7.9 percent
this quarter from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg
survey. That would be the sixth quarterly deceleration after an
8.1 percent expansion in the first three months.  Chinese Demand  “Prices will react negatively to lower demand,” according
to Chris Pardey, chief executive officer of RCMA Commodities
Asia, a Singapore-based trading company. Output may top demand
by 400,000 tons in the six months to December after a deficit of
150,000 tons in the first half.  China ’s consumption may be
unchanged from last year at 3.8 million tons, he said this week,
lowering an earlier forecast for 2 percent to 3 percent growth.  Consumption may grow 7.2 percent to 7.4 million tons this
year from 6.9 million tons in 2011, Mary Xu, deputy secretary
general of the China Rubber Industry Association said today. Of
the total, 4 million tons will be synthetic and 3.4 million tons
natural, she said. The government’s commitment to bolster growth
and its focus on “the development of the automobile industry”
will help boost demand for rubber, Xu said.  Exports of passenger- car  tires gained 5.7 percent to
338,000 tons in the three months to March, while truck tire
shipments surged 15 percent to 504,000 tons, Xu said. Tire
output may rise 5.9 percent to 483 million pieces this year.  China will take steps to “expand demand and to create a
favorable policy environment for stable and relatively fast
economic growth,” the government said yesterday. The statement
builds on Premier Wen Jiabao’s comments published May 20,
showing a bigger focus on spurring growth.  Thai Supplies  Thai production this year may total around 3.5 million tons
as rains in the south, which represents 80 percent of local
supplies, have disrupted tapping, Prapas said. The country
produced 3.57 million tons last year, according to the  Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand .  Additional supplies are expected to slow as trees planted
in the northeastern provinces, which are mature enough to be
tapped, will generate low yields, said Pongsak.  Thailand  started
plantations in the region about seven years ago, expanding from
traditional planting areas in the south. Output from the
northeast accounts for less than 10 percent of total output,
Pongsak said. “In the south, we can only replant, as there’s no
available land for new plantations.”  Labor Shortages  Thai rubber plantations will face labor shortages as
workers from Myanmar leave for home, Pongsak said. “The most
important issue in Thailand now is labor - the majority, a large
percentage, of rubber workers in Thailand is from Myanmar. Now
Myanmar opened up its country so we are afraid workers will
return to their country,” he said.  Labor shortages, shrinking acreage and low yields are
threatening production in Malaysia, said Aliasak Ambia,
president of the National Association of Smallholders.
Plantations area has shrunk to slightly less than one million
hectares (2.5 million acres) from about 1.7 million hectares 10
years ago, Ambia said. Farmers have been shifting to oil palm,
which takes a shorter time to produce yields, compared with the
seven years before a rubber tree can be tapped, he said. Yields
are low for small growers, he said.  Indonesia  will produce 2.95 million tons this year from 3
million tons in 2011 because of a prolonged rainy season, said
Asril Sultan Amir, chairman of the Rubber Association of
Indonesia. The country exported about 2.5 million tons of rubber
last year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net 
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  