-- AIG Says Countrywide Ruling Preserves $10 Billion Claim
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-24T21:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/aig-can-t-pursue-some-countrywide-claims-in-10-billion-case-1-.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
said a ruling in its lawsuit against  Bank of America Corp .’s
Countrywide unit over losses from residential mortgage-backed
securities preserves its $10 billion damage claim.  U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los Angeles
yesterday dismissed AIG’s federal law claims because they were
filed too late, more than three years after the bonds were first
sold. The judge also said some state-law claims by AIG units in
 Arizona ,  California ,  Texas  and  Tennessee  were time barred.  “The ruling allows AIG’s common law fraud claims, which
total more than $10 billion, to proceed,” James Ankner, a
spokesman for New York-based AIG, said today in a statement.
“The claims that were dismissed amounted to $40 million, less
than one half of one percent of AIG’s total claim.”  The claims against Countrywide are part of a complaint AIG
filed in  New York  state court last year, alleging the insurer
was the victim of a “massive fraud.” The claims against
Countrywide were moved to federal court in Los Angeles, where
Pfaelzer is presiding over a group of consolidated lawsuits by
investors in Countrywide’s mortgage-backed securities.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, declined
to comment on Pfaelzer’s ruling and on AIG’s assertion that the
ruling leaves the $10 billion damages claim intact.  AIG alleges it was misled into believing that loans
underlying its investment were issued according to certain
underwriting guidelines that in fact had been “long
abandoned,” according to the complaint. The only measure of
whether a loan would be approved was whether it could be
packaged into bonds and sold to investors such as AIG, the
company said.  AIG to Proceed  The insurer said that it wasn’t surprised that Pfaelzer had
barred its federal claims because she had previously rejected
similar securities-law claims by other investors in
Countrywide’s mortgage-backed securities for the same reason.
Some of those rulings are now being appealed before the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco .  The judge said in the ruling that she only asked AIG and
Countrywide to address the timeliness of AIG’s claims, with all
additional grounds for dismissal to be taken up later.  Pfaelzer agreed with AIG that its subsidiaries that are
incorporated in Delaware and have principal places of business
in New York should be treated as residents of New York, which
allows them to take advantage of that state’s six-year statute
of limitations.  “At this stage the court accepts, as it must, plaintiffs’
allegations regarding their principal places of business,”
Pfaelzer said. “The court will revisit this issue at summary
judgment should the factual record warrant it.”  AIG’s claims against  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank
of America and Merrill Lynch, which were part of the original
suit, are in federal court in New York.  The case is AIG v. Countrywide, 11-10549, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 