-- Air France Slims European Business Into Three Units to Cut Costs
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-05-24T17:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/air-france-presents-plan-for-short-haul-network-revamp-to-unions.html
Air France (AF)  plans to slim down its
European business into three units in a push to slash costs at
the perennially unprofitable short-haul operation.  Brit Air, Regional and Airlinair, which serve smaller
cities, will become a single division, while a leisure arm will
be established around discount unit Transavia and Air  France ’s
own short-haul brand will introduce a new no-frills class.  “Air France needs to renovate its organization and increase
productivity by 20 percent,” Alexandre de Juniac, the French
unit’s chief executive officer, said in a briefing, describing
the objectives as “ambitious but feasible” and adding that the
company also needs to tackle an issue of “excess staff.”  Jean Cyril Spinetta, recalled as CEO of Air France-KLM
Group last year after a profit drop forced the exit of Pierre- Henri Gourgeon, said in January he’s seeking more than 2 billion
euros ($2.5 billion) in annual savings to secure the long-term
future and must reach an accord with unions by the end of June.  The revamped regional unit, to be run by Lionel Guerin,
founder and CEO of Airlinair, should achieve sales of about 1
billion euros in the year after next, Juniac said at the
briefing in a Paris suburb following an all-day briefing with
the Air France Central Works Council.  ‘Lighter, Cheaper’  Transavia, originally part of Dutch division KLM, will be
focused chiefly at the secondary hub of Paris Orly, a base for
holiday flights, and will increase its fleet to as many as 22
planes by 2015 or 2016 from eight today, Air France said. The
operation has a revenue target of 420 million euros for 2014.  The company’s main short-haul unit, operating from its
 Charles de Gaulle  hub, will provide a “lighter and cheaper
offering” as an alternative to an all-inclusive product, Juniac
said, adding that this shouldn’t affect perceptions of the
brand. The business is aiming for  sales of 4.5 billion euros .  Aircraft utilization will also be improved across the
board, replicating principles pioneered at bases in southern
France, the carrier said, with the result that 34 aircraft are
likely to be cut from the short- and medium-range fleet by 2014
while maintaining previous levels of overall capacity.  Air France will continue with short- and mid-range routes
as a whole, including services to Charles de Gaulle which feed
more lucrative long-haul flights, only if employees agree to
“drastic” cost reductions, the carrier said last month.  New Routes  Europe ’s biggest airline group also aims to boost
productivity in the inter-continental arm, making new
destinations viable, it said in a statement, while routes that
have no prospect of profitability will be suspended.  The company’s long-haul operation will also seek to improve
standards to the level of some Persian Gulf carriers. Customer
service will become “more personalized” in first and business
class and the cabins of  Boeing Co. (BA)  777 and  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A380
aircraft will be “improved” from 2014.  The number of surplus staff will be indicated in the second
half of next month, depending on the outcome of ongoing labor
talks on the wider Transform savings plan, Juniac said, adding
that “avoiding layoffs remains an objective.”  Air France-KLM’s operating loss widened to 597 million
euros in the first quarter and the company is headed for its
fourth straight annual deficit, according to analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg News.  Lufthansa Cuts  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline,
said May 3 it will scrap about 3,500 administrative jobs, or 20
percent of the total, in a 1.5 billion-euro savings push.  As part of the plan, the Frankfurt-based company has frozen
capacity at its main brand and is consolidating operations
between its short-haul outfit and Germanwings, a low-cost
division that narrowed its losses in the first quarter.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , the No. 3, is
seeking a return to profit at its Spanish division through the
transfer of domestic and short-haul flights to a new unit,
Iberia Express, which plans to bring down the break-even point
by offering less-generous contracts.  Iberia aims to cut pilot pay by 62 million euros, or one
fifth, while improving productivity by 25 percent as it seeks to
match profitability levels at sister company British Airways.  Air France-KLM closed 0.3 percent higher at 3.40 euros in
Paris. The stock has declined 14 percent this year, the second-
worst performance on the seven-member Bloomberg EMEA Airlines
Index, valuing the company at 1.02 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  