-- Airbus CEO Says Wing Cracks Show Risk of Technology Leaps
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-05-24T16:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/airbus-ceo-says-wing-cracks-show-risk-of-technology-leaps-1-.html
The cracked wings of the Airbus A380
double-decker airliner are the result of new technologies mixed
with insufficient design controls that are now causing spiraling
repair costs, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  said.  “This is something that wasn’t on our radar screen,”
Enders said of the period 10 years ago when aircraft designers
sought to make A380 wings lighter by mixing carbon fiber and
metal. “We thought we understood the properties of the
materials and the interface between carbon fiber and metal and
found out the wrong way we didn’t know everything.”  The cracks have forced Airbus to take more than a quarter
of a billion euros repair charges, and the company said this
month that fixing its flagship airliner will occupy Airbus for
years to come. Airbus is reviewing its delivery schedule for
this year, and said that handing over 30 of the world’s largest
passenger jet this year will be a challenge.  While taking risks with new materials and programs is a
requirement in the airliner business, Airbus didn’t have the
necessary controls to anticipate potential missteps, Enders told
journalists today at a briefing in Toulouse in southwestern
 France , where Airbus is based.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., the parent of
Airbus,  said last week that charges in 2012 alone for a
permanent fix for existing A380 wings would total 260 million
euros, and that Airbus will take further charges in future years
as it assumes the costs of repairing A380 wingsets.  Choice of Metal  Airbus has traced the cause of the cracks to the choice of
a less flexible aluminum alloy used to make the wing brackets,
as well as the way in which fasteners are put through holes, and
the stresses involved in fitting portions of the wing together.  A short-term fix that takes about five days has been
applied to about a third of the 74 A380s in service today. That
solution will be applied to other operating A380s as the number
of landings and takeoffs reaches a threshold mandated by
regulators that requires the fix.  Airbus has worked out a re-design of the wing that would
eliminate future cracks and the company is working with the
European Aviation Safety Agency to gain approval.  The new design wouldn’t work its way into wing structures
being built in Broughton,  Wales , until mid 2013, meaning the
first A380s to come off the final assembly line in Toulouse with
the improved wing would be early 2014, said  Tom Williams , the
head of programs at Airbus.  Until a permanent re-design is incorporated into future
planes, those A380s flying today and entering service before
2014 will need fixes made to wings that are far more complex and
time-consuming than the rapid change, Williams said.  Those fixes can either be done after planes are fully built
and not yet delivered, or after delivery, with the fixes
scheduled to occur during maintenance visits after two and four
years, Williams said. The scheduling for such fixes is now the
subject of negotiations with airlines, he said.  “I’m quite sure the A380 will survive this, as other
aircraft programs have in the past, but it costs the company
dearly in money, and I’m afraid also in reputation,” Enders
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  