-- Malaysian Airline Fits A380s With Widest Seats in the Sky
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-05-25T11:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/malaysian-airline-fits-a380s-with-widest-seats-in-the-sky.html
Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  has
taken a 5-inch lead over Singapore Airlines Ltd.  That’s how much wider the carrier’s first-class seats will
be than Singapore Air’s when it starts flying the Airbus SAS
A380 in July. In total, passengers will have more space than on
a single-bed mattress, with seats measuring 40 inches by 87
inches.  The new seats, costing about $9,000 for a round trip to
London, will spearhead Malaysian Air’s push to win corporate and
long-haul travelers after higher fuel prices and competition
from budget carrier  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  led to a 2.5 billion ringgit
($795 million)  loss  last year.  Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI) 
will also get its first A380s this year, adding a further
challenge for  Singapore  Air.  “Malaysian Air has to improve on their premium services in
order to be able to compete,” said Joshua Ng, an analyst at RHB
Research Institute Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur. “There is a bit of
national pride involved as well -- especially when you’re
talking about competing with Singapore Air.”  The carrier, the eighth A380 operator, will start flights
with the plane on July 1 with a trip to London. Daily services
on the route will begin Aug. 25. Flights to  Australia  and
another country will be added as more of the planes enter
service, Anbarasu Sundram, a spokesman for the airline based in
Subang outside Kuala Lumpur, said by phone. The last is due to
arrive in February.  Widest Seats  Malaysian Air, controlled by state investment fund Khazanah
Nasional Bhd., will fit its  A380s  with 494 seats. The eight
first-class units, which will be on the lower deck, are wider
than any seats listed on comparison website  seatguru.com . The
planes will also have 66 business-class seats on their upper
floors and 420 coach seats divided between the two decks.  Yields, a measure of average ticket prices, are typically
5.5 times higher in first class than coach, compared with
business-class’s 3.6 ratio, according to aviation consultant
 Rigan Doganis . The seats are also important in terms of
marketing and for maintaining the loyalty of business travelers
through potential upgrades.  “First-class is retained for prestige and brand, and as an
incentive in the frequent flier-program,” said Andrew Wong,
London-based regional director for  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP) ’s flights
division, which owns seatguru.com. Few first-class passengers
buy tickets themselves, he said.  Asian and Middle East carriers have kept first-class cabins,
which have been largely eliminated by North American carriers,
because of their greater focus on long-haul routes, he said.
Emirates Airline, the largest A380 operator, has fitted showers
in the premium cabins of its superjumbos.  Thai Air A380s  Thai Air’s A380s will accommodate 507 passengers, including
12 in first, 60 in business and 435 in economy. The first-class
seats will be 26.5 inches wide and offer an 83-inch pitch, a
measure of legroom, according to the carrier’s  website . The
first superjumbo will arrive by early October and six will be in
service by the end of next year. Routes could include  Hong Kong ,
 Frankfurt ,  London , Tokyo, Paris and Copenhagen, outgoing-
President Piyasvasti Amranand said last month.  Thai Air and Malaysian Air are adding A380s in a bid to win
premium travelers as higher fuel prices and economic concerns in
Europe damp demand. Singapore Air posted a loss in the quarter
ended March, while  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  has forecast
“disappointing” first-half earnings and pared growth.  “The business-travel market isn’t really looking up at the
moment,” said Tushar Mohata, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  Flight Cuts  Malaysian Air has already cut flights because of the
slowdown and losses. It also said this week it’s in talks with
the government on a sale-and-leaseback deal involving the A380s
under a program to restore its finances. The airline narrowed
its loss in the first quarter.  The  carrier  rose 1 percent to 1.06 ringgit in  Kuala Lumpur 
trading today, while the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index gained 0.2 percent. The  airline  has fallen 33 percent in
the past year, compared with a 27 percent decline for Singapore
Air in Singapore.  The first-class seats’ pitch will be 89 inches on Malaysian
Air’s  A380s , surpassing those on Emirates’ and Singapore Air’s,
according to seatguru.com data. Passengers will also have an
individual 23-inch inflight-entertainment screen, a personal
closet and the ability to pre-order meals. The seats reach their
widest when converted into a bed with one armrest down.  Singapore Air Suites  The first-class suites on Singapore Air’s A380s, which took
five years to develop, have a seat that’s 35.3 inches wide with
its armrests folded away, and a separate bed measuring 27 inches
by 78 inches, spokesman  Nicholas Ionides  said by e-mail. A
standalone bed increases comfort for passengers, he said.  “Competition has always been there and it will always be
there,” Singapore Air’s Chief Executive Officer Goh Choon Phong
said earlier this month when asked about the new A380 operators.
“As new aircraft come out, we would have to expect other people
will purchase them.” The carrier was the first operator of the
superjumbo in 2007.  Singapore Air also still has the advantage of being based
in Singapore, which is a more likely destination for premium
passengers, such as bankers and lawyers, than Kuala Lumpur. The
city-state is the most competitive city in the Asia-Pacific
region, according to an Economist Intelligence Unit  report  this
year. The Malaysian capital ranked 11th.  Budget Destination  “Malaysia is predominately a budget travelers’ market, not
business like in Singapore and Hong Kong,” said RHB’s Ng.
Malaysian Air will struggle for premium flyers until Kuala
Lumpur becomes a financial hub and “that’s not going to happen
anytime soon,” he said.  Seats in first class are usually custom-designed, with
individual units costing as much as $150,000 to make, said Chris
Pirie, business development manager at Seattle-based Teague
Design Inc., which has worked with  Boeing (BA)  on plane interiors
since the 1940s. Malaysian Air’s Sundram didn’t comment on the
cost of the carrier’s units.  The investment will be worth it if the seats boost
Malaysian Air’s reputation and allow it to sell more tickets at
higher fares across its fleet, said Nomura’s Mohata.  “Malaysian Air wants to shift the airline’s whole image
upmarket,” he said. “Whether it succeeds depends on their
product and their ticket prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  