-- Half of Detroit’s Streetlights May Go Out as City Shrinks
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-05-24T16:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/half-of-detroit-s-streetlights-may-go-out-as-city-shrinks.html
Detroit , whose 139 square miles
contain 60 percent fewer residents than in 1950, will try to
nudge them into a smaller living space by eliminating almost
half its streetlights.  As it is, 40 percent of the 88,000 streetlights are broken
and the city, whose finances are to be overseen by an appointed
board, can’t afford to fix them. Mayor Dave Bing’s plan would
create an authority to borrow $160 million to upgrade and reduce
the number of streetlights to 46,000. Maintenance would be
contracted out, saving the city $10 million a year.  Other U.S. cities have gone partially dark to save money,
among them Colorado Springs;  Santa Rosa ,  California ; and
Rockford,  Illinois . Detroit’s plan goes further: It would leave
sparsely populated swaths unlit in a community of 713,000 that
covers more area than  Boston , Buffalo and  San Francisco 
combined. Vacant property and parks account for 37 square miles
(96 square kilometers), according to city planners.  “You have to identify those neighborhoods where you want
to concentrate your population,” said  Chris Brown , Detroit’s
chief operating officer. “We’re not going to light distressed
areas like we light other areas.”  Detroit’s dwindling income and property-tax revenue have
required residents to endure unreliable buses and strained
police services throughout the city. Because streetlights are
basic to urban life, deciding what areas to illuminate will
reshape the city, said Kirk Cheyfitz, co-founder of a project
called Detroit143 -- named for the 139 square miles of land,
plus water -- that publicizes neighborhood issues.  Rethinking Detroit  “It touches kids going to school in the dark,” said
Cheyfitz, chief executive of Story Worldwide Ltd., a  New York 
marketing company. “It touches midnight Mass at a church. It
touches businesses that want to stay open past 9 p.m.”  Bing in 2010 began an independent project called Detroit
Works to sort ideas on how to reconfigure the city for
residences, businesses, green space and even agriculture, a plan
due in August.  Meantime, Brown said, the city will fix broken streetlights
in certain places even as it discontinues such services as
street and sidewalk repairs in “distressed” areas -- those
with a high degree of blight and little or no commercial
activity.  Bing’s plan requires state legislation to create the
lighting authority. Governor  Rick Snyder  supports the plan, said
his senior policy adviser, Valerie Brader.  Dark Portents  There’s already experience snuffing out streetlights within
Detroit’s borders.  Highland Park , a 3-square-mile city encircled
by its larger neighbor, removed 1,100 of 1,600 streetlights last
year, after piling up a $4 million debt to DTE Energy. The move
saves $45,000 a month, said Alejandro Bodipo-Memba, a spokesman
for the company.  Only major streets and intersections remain lit in the city
of 12,000, once home to Chrysler Group LLC’s namesake car
manufacturer and  Henry Ford ’s first moving assembly line. Mayor
DeAndre Windom, 45, said residents at first complained, though
few do now. He’s considering grants and private funding to
relight darkened streets  Colorado Springs  pulled the plug on 9,000 of its 25,600
lights in 2010 to save $1.3 million, said David Krauth, a city
traffic engineer. Some were relit as revenue improved, though
3,500 remain dark, saving about $500,000 a year, he said.  In Detroit, some streets have no working lights. Many
appear dim or are blocked by trees. And some areas with mostly
vacant lots are well-lit.  Night Terrors  A single, broken streetlight on the northeast side brings
fear to Cynthia Perry, 55. It hasn’t worked for six years, Perry
said in an interview on the darkened sidewalk where she walks
from her garage to her house entrance.  “I’m afraid coming in at night,” she said. “I’m not
going to seclude myself in the house and never go anywhere.”  In southwest Detroit, businesses on West Vernor Highway, a
main commercial thoroughfare, have sought $4 million in private
grants to fix the situation themselves. The state would pay $2.5
million, said Kathy Wendler, president of the Southwest Detroit
Business Association.  Jamahl Makled, 40, said he’s owned businesses in southwest
Detroit for about two decades, most recently cell-phone stores.
He said they’ve have been burglarized more than a dozen times.  “In the dark, criminals are comfortable,” Makled said.
“It’s not good for the economy and the safety of the
residents.”  Antique Lamps  North of there, on a stretch of West Grand Boulevard, the
bases of light poles show where thieves tore out the wiring.  As many as 15,000 Detroit streetlights use 1920s
technology, according to a 2010 study by McKinsey & Co.
Upgrading the system would cost $140 million to $200 million,
and $5 million more to operate than the $23 million now spent
annually, the report said.  Besides streetlights, the Detroit lighting department
provides electricity to 144 customers that include Detroit
schools,  Wayne State University  and local government offices.
Almost 22 percent of the city’s electric bills were unpaid, the
McKinsey report said.  That’s just one reason Detroit is digging out of a $265
million deficit and saddled with more than $12 billion in long-
term debt. To avoid a state takeover, Detroit agreed in April to
have its finances overseen by a nine-member board appointed by
the city and the state.  Civic Obligations  Delivering services to a thinly spread population is
expensive. Some 20 neighborhoods, each a square mile or more,
are only 10 to 15 percent occupied, said John Mogk, a law
professor at Wayne State University who specializes in urban law
and policy. He said the city can’t force residents to move, and
it’s almost impossible under Michigan law for the city to seize
properties for development.  Mogk said landowners can demand many times what property
would fetch on the open market.  “There are tremendous political, administrative, financial
and, to some degree, legal obstacles,” Mogk said. “Unless you
phase out a neighborhood altogether, you still need lighting,
and waste pickup and police and fire protection.”  As Detroit’s streets go dark, some of those neighborhoods
may fade away with the dying light.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Merelman at  