-- Mali Junta Supporters Back Sanogo as Interim President
-- B y   D i a k a r i d i a   D e m b e l e   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-05-24T14:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/mali-junta-supporters-back-sanogo-as-interim-president-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of country in headline.)  A group that backs  Mali ’s military
junta said it wants coup leader Captain Amadou Sanogo to head a
transitional government after the country’s interim president
was injured by protesters demanding his resignation.  “He will be informed of his appointment as president by
the national convention and he will be invested” tomorrow,
Mohamed Taboure, a spokesman for the group known by its French
acronym Copam, told reporters yesterday in Bamako, the capital.  Interim leader Dioncounda Traore was flown out of the
country yesterday to receive treatment in  France  for injuries he
sustained when protesters stormed his office on May 21 to demand
he step down. The demonstration, which was called by Copam, came
a day after a deal was reached between Sanogo and the Economic
Community of West African States under which the army captain
stepped down and Traore’s position as head of the transitional
government was extended from 40 days to one year.  “Whether people agree with the Ecowas accord or not, the
political process must be respected so that the government can
get to work,”  Gilles Yabi , West Africa director at Brussels-
based  International Crisis Group , said by phone from Dakar.  Sanogo will earn benefits as a former head of state under
the Ecowas deal,  Burkina Faso ’s Foreign Affairs Minister Djibril
Bassole said on May 21.  Political Game  “It is not difficult to see that Sanogo is playing a deft
political game, extracting considerable concessions for
himself,” Hannah Waddilove, sub-Saharan Africa analyst at
London-based risk-advisory group AKE Ltd., said in an e-mailed
response to questions today.  The assault on Traore, a former leader of the national
assembly, shows “the fragility of the transition process and
his personal mandate,” said Waddilove. “More specifically it
proved that the security forces are not willing to protect him,
which has wider security implications and makes members of the
civilian transition vulnerable.”  Mali, which ranks alongside Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-
biggest gold producer, has been in political crisis since March
22, when soldiers ousted President Amadou Toure amid discontent
about the resources the government was dedicating to fight
Touareg rebels in the nation’s northern region. The insurgents
took advantage of the instability to declare independence in the
north on April 6.  “Prime Minister Modibo Diarra is responsible for the
transitional government and charged with finding a solution for
the crisis in the north,” Yabi said. “He does not have a lot
of political experience and we should give him some time to get
started.”  Diarra’s cabinet held its second official meeting late
yesterday, approving a loan for an irrigation project and
appointments to the youth ministry, according to a government
statement published on the news website Journal du Mali.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diakaridia Dembele in Bamako via Accra at 
 ddembele@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  