-- Man. City to Bid $39 Million for Bilbao’s Javi Martinez: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-24T08:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/man-city-to-bid-39-million-for-bilbao-s-javi-martinez-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  City Target  Premier League champion Manchester City will try to sign
Athletic Bilbao defender Javi Martinez for about 25 million
pounds ($39.2 million) and is expected to send scouts to watch
him in tomorrow’s Spanish Cup final, the  Daily Mail reported .  Martinez, who is also wanted by  Manchester United ,
Barcelona and Real Madrid, can play as a holding midfielder too,
though City is said to want to pair him with  Vincent Kompany  in
the center of defense, the newspaper added.  Drogba Offer  Italian champion Juventus offered striker Didier Drogba,
who’s a free agent next month after helping Chelsea win the
 Champions League , a two-year contract worth 80,000 pounds a
week, the  Sun reported .  Although Chinese club Shanghai Shenhua is the favorite to
sign Drogba, Juventus is tempting the Ivorian with top-flight
soccer and a 10 million-pound signing bonus, the paper added.  Chelsea Departures  Chelsea will release two more members of its Champions
League-winning team after deciding not to retain defender  Jose Bosingwa  and striker Salomon Kalou, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Contract talks with Frank Lampard,  Florent Malouda ,  Michael Essien  and Paulo Ferreira are yet to be scheduled pending the
appointment of the club’s permanent manager, the Mirror added.  Chelsea Chief Executive Officer Ron Gourlay wants Lampard,
Essien and Malouda signed to long-term deals by mid-September,
the  Daily Mail reported .  Interest Cools  Liverpool owner Fenway Sports Group has cooled its interest
in hiring Andre Villas-Boas, who was fired by Chelsea in March,
as manager, the  Guardian reported .  The Portuguese coach has been a frontrunner for the vacancy
following Kenny Dalglish’s firing last week, though hasn’t been
approached for an interview, the Guardian added.  Bye Bye Ba?  Newcastle United risks losing striker Demba Ba for 7
million pounds by refusing to renegotiate his contract, the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  The Magpies could have tried to remove a release clause,
the existence of which was leaked to other Premier League teams
before the January transfer window, by offering the Senegal
international an increase in his weekly wage of 50,000 pounds,
the Telegraph said.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  