-- Angola to Hold General Elections on Aug. 31, Dos Santos Says
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-05-24T20:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/angola-to-hold-general-elections-on-aug-31-dos-santos-says-1-.html
Angola , sub-Saharan Africa’s second-
biggest oil producer, will hold general elections on Aug. 31,
according to a statement from the office of President Jose Eduardo dos Santos.  The elections will be the second Angolan ballot since the
end of a 27-year civil conflict in 2002, and the first for a
president in 20 years. Voters will choose “to fill the position
of president and members of the National Assembly” in a single
poll, according to the statement e-mailed today.  The southern African country pumped about 1.8 million
barrels of oil a day from wells drilled by companies such as
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA. (FP)  Angola
supplied 2.6 percent of U.S. oil imports in February, according
to Energy Department data. China imported 15 percent of its
crude from Angola in March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Dos Santos  is expected to run and win handily, while his
choice of a successor remains a mystery, according to Alex Vines, head of the Africa program at Chatham House in London.  “The greatest issue of uncertainty is the succession of
dos Santos in Angolan politics,” Vines said this month in a
telephone interview. “That is the one thing we don’t know.”  Dos Santos said last year elections would be held by Sept.
5 and that he was “available” to extend his 32-year rule. He
has not formally announced his candidacy, nor a list of
candidates that would include a potential successor to the 69-
year-old. Dos Santos is  Africa ’s second-longest-serving ruler
after Equatorial Guinea President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo.  The governing Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola
won the last parliamentary election in 2008 with 82 percent of
the votes. The MPLA has 181 of the legislature’s 220 seats
compared with 16 held by the largest opposition group, the Union
for the Total Independence of Angola, a former rebel group.  Unita may suffer at the polls because former leader Abel Chivukuvuku, 54, broke with Unita leader Isaias Samakuva and set
up his own party in March, Vines said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  