-- Apple CEO to Forgo $75 Million Dividend From Stock Awards
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-05-24T23:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/apple-ceo-to-forgo-75-million-dividend-from-stock-awards.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Cook  will forgo about $75 million in dividend
payments he would otherwise receive for the 1.125 million stock
awards he’s slated to receive over the next decade.  Apple made the announcement in a  regulatory filing  that
also says other employees will be eligible to collect the $2.65-
a-share quarterly  dividend  on restricted stock, the same payout
that was announced in March for shareholders of the  Cupertino,
California-based company.  The decision to let employees collect the equivalent of a
dividend on stock awards that haven’t vested is unusual, in part
because many technology companies don’t pay a dividend, said
Glenn Borromeo, a senior consultant at Meridian Compensation
Partners LLC, which advises Silicon Valley companies on
compensation. Fewer than half of the companies on the  Nasdaq-100
Index (NDX)  pay a dividend.  “It’s giving a little bit of extra compensation,”
Borromeo said. “It’s a little bit unusual, but obviously they
have enough money so they can and it’s a little kicker for the
equity compensation that’s not yet vested.”  Cook, who guided the company while late co-founder  Steve Jobs  was on three medical leaves and took over as CEO last year,
was awarded 1 million restricted shares last year that will vest
over the next decade. The grants, worth $565.3 million based on
today’s stock price, rank among the largest awards given to a
company executive. Apple announced in March that Cook would
forgo the dividends.  Other members of Apple’s executive team are eligible for
the dividends. Software executive  Scott Forstall , hardware
manager Bob Mansfield, Chief Financial Officer Peter Oppenheimer, marketing chief Phil Schiller, general counsel
Bruce Sewell and operation manager Jeff Williams in November
each received 150,000 restricted shares, which vest between 2013
and 2016, according to regulatory filings. Eddy Cue, who handles
Internet software, has received 200,000 shares since his
promotion last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  