-- Cocoa Heads for Longest Slide in Six Weeks; Sugar Rises
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-24T18:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/arabica-coffee-gains-on-speculation-prices-fell-too-far.html
Cocoa futures fell, capping the
longest decline in six weeks, on speculation that favorable
weather will boost crops in West Africa, the world’s top
producing region. Sugar rose, while coffee was unchanged.  West Africa has had widespread rains in the past week, with
similar conditions expected this week, Kyle Tapley, a
meteorologist with Gaithersburg, Maryland-based MDA Information
Systems Inc. said today in an e-mail. While causing some “minor
slowdowns” in gathering the mid-crop -- the smaller of the
region’s two annual harvests that usually starts in April -- the
precipitation will favor development of the region’s bigger,
main crop, he said.  “The recent run of good weather across West Africa,” has
been putting pressure on prices, Drew Geraghty, a commodity
broker with ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , said
today in an e-mailed report.  Cocoa for July delivery slid 0.9 percent to settle at
$2,105 a metric ton at 12:03 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, after reaching $2,094, the lowest for a most-active
contract since April 12. Today marks the fourth straight decline
and the longest slump since April 4.  Raw-sugar futures for July delivery increased 0.4 percent
to 19.58 cents a pound on ICE. The sweetener is still down 7.3
percent in May.  While “prices are likely to fall somewhat further in the
short term in view of current  market sentiment , we expect them
to return soon to above the 20-cent mark,”  Carsten Fritsch , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , wrote in a report e-
mailed today.  Arabica-coffee futures for July delivery closed unchanged
at $1.669 a pound on ICE, after slumping 4.4 percent yesterday.  In London futures trading, cocoa slid on NYSE Liffe.
Refined sugar and robusta coffee gained.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  