-- Ariba Investor Sues Company Over $4.3 Billion Sale to SAP
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-05-24T19:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/ariba-shareholder-sues-company-over-4-3-billion-sale-to-sap.html
Ariba Inc., a California cloud-
computing applications maker, was sued by a shareholder claiming
 SAP AG (SAP) ’s $4.3 billion takeover offer undervalues the company.  Herbert Silverberg, who owns more than 2,000 shares, sued
Ariba and its executives arguing that the proposed transaction
shortchanges investors and asking that it be blocked. The
complaint in the proposed class-action suit was filed today in
Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  “Ariba is an attractive acquisition candidate with
tremendous future prospects,” lawyers for Silverberg wrote in
court documents. “Ariba’s business as of late has been on a
positive trajectory, indicating that its value in an acquisition
is worth more than what is being offered.”  Karen Master, a spokeswoman for Ariba, didn’t immediately
reply to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment on the lawsuit.  SAP, the largest maker of enterprise-applications software,
agreed to pay $45 a share for the Sunnyvale, California-based
company to expand its cloud presence in a challenge to Oracle
Corp. The offer represents a 20 percent premium to Ariba’s
closing price May 21, the day before the deal was announced.  In more than 60 enterprise software takeovers since 2002,
the median multiple buyers paid was about 16 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with Walldorf,
Germany-based SAP’s offer of about 106 times Ariba’s trailing
12-month Ebitda of about $40.9 million, the data show.  Cloud Computing  Cloud-computing allows users to perform tasks, run
applications and store content in the internet that would
traditionally be confined to a computer.  Ariba’s global trading network connects and automates more
than $319 billion in commercial transactions, collaborations,
and intelligence among more than 730,000 companies, according to
SAP’s statement.  The case is Silverberg v.  Ariba Inc. (ARBA) , CA7565, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in  New York 
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 