-- Harper’s Labor Hardline No Boon for Business
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-05-24T16:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/harper-s-labor-hardline-no-boon-for-business.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen
Harper ’s hardline approach to labor disputes may help bring a
quick end to a strike at  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  It may
also keep the company from cutting labor costs.  Lisa Raitt, Harper’s labor minister, said yesterday that
while her preference is for a negotiated settlement, she has
given notice she may introduce a bill to end the strike when
Parliament returns from break on May 28.  Canadian Pacific may become the third company where Raitt,
citing concerns about a weak recovery, has intervened in labor
disputes since the  Conservative Party  won a majority last May, a
practice labor relations experts say can hamper the corporate
restructurings needed to bolster productivity in an economy that
has seen unit labor costs in U.S.-dollar terms almost  double 
over the past decade as the Canadian dollar has surged.  The track record of imposed resolutions shows they do not
achieve the kind of change that is required, said  George Smith ,
who teaches labor relations at Queen’s University in Kingston,
Ontario and was a director of employee relations at Air Canada
from 1982 to 1992.  “If they can’t freely negotiate the terms and conditions
of their labor agreements in such a way that they can be
competitive, then you are going to have a long term
competitiveness problem,” Smith said.  Walk Off Job  The Teamsters union, representing 4,800 workers, walked off
their jobs yesterday and snarled cargo shipments nationwide in a
strike where the major dispute is over pension liabilities. The
company said it will lay off more than 2,000 other employees
because their work won’t be necessary while the railroad isn’t
operating,  Canadian Pacific  said in an e-mailed statement.  In March, Raitt blocked Air Canada from locking out its
pilots, who are working under the terms of their last accord
which expired in March 2011. She has also barred the airline’s
mechanics and flight attendants from striking.  The governing Conservatives passed legislation last June
ending a work stoppage at Canada Post, after the country’s
postal agency was unable to reach a contract for about 48,000
letter carriers.  The number of worker days lost to stoppages has averaged an
annual 795,101 since Harper first took power in 2006, compared
to an average 1.98 million in the previous decade, according to
data on the labor department’s  website  based on disputes
involving more than 500 workers. While Harper has governed since
2006, his Conservatives won their first electoral majority only
last year.  The opposition  New Democratic Party  has accused the
government of siding with companies in the disputes.  Relieves Employer Pressure  “With back to work legislation threat, it removes a lot of
pressure for the employer,” Alexandre Boulerice, the lawmaker
for the NDP responsible for labor issues, said in an interview.
“What is the incentive to negotiate?”  Ken Georgetti, president of the Canadian Labour Congress,
which represents 3.3 million Canadian workers, said the
government is “is flagrantly taking away people’s right to
strike in an aggressive and biased approach to labour
relations.”  Georgetti urged Raitt to allow the Teamsters and Canadian
Pacific to come to a negotiated settlement. “Publicly talking
about back-to-work legislation only serves to give the employer
an advantage and has far reaching negative implications for
future labor relations between the parties at CP Rail, and in
other federally regulated sectors as it sends a signal to every
federally regulated employer that they need not bargain,” he
said in a statement.  Labor relations experts say government intervention may not
work in companies’ favor.  Direct Connection  The new board at Canadian Pacific “has a mandate to come
in and improve costs, of course they will look at all areas, but
labor is one of them,” said  Anil Verma , a professor of
industrial relations at the University of Toronto’s Rotman
School of Management. “There’s a direct connection between what
happens in collective bargaining and the industry position of
CP.”  The labor action complicates CP’s operations as the
railroad searches for a new chief executive officer following a
months-long proxy fight. The Teamsters contract talks began in
October and the union first threatened to strike in April.  The Teamsters resisted what they described as a 40 percent
cut in post-retirement benefits, while Canadian Pacific said
pensions helped push expense margins higher than those of its
peers.  Expense Margins  Those margins were criticized by activist investor  William Ackman  during his campaign to install new directors and
management. That drive culminated last week in the departure of
CEO  Fred Green  and five other board members hours before a
shareholder vote.  While the walkout may damp second-quarter volumes at
Canadian Pacific, “we believe it’s important for CP to maintain
its position and leverage with its unions by taking a strike,”
Chris Wetherbee, a Citigroup Inc. analyst, wrote in a note to
clients.  “The longer-term payoff of lower pension contributions can
be a driver of margin” improvement, said Wetherbee, who has a
“buy” rating on the shares.  The government estimates that cargo shipment disruptions
could end up costing the Canadian economy C$540 million (527
million) in lost output every week if the strike is prolonged,
Raitt told reporters yesterday in Ottawa.  Economic Impact  “We’re putting on notice that we have the ability to
introduce legislation should we need to do so,” Raitt said.
“We want to make sure that the effect on the economy is being
brought to people’s attention and we are keeping it in mind as
it proceeds.”  Raitt said there is no immediate risk to the economy
because companies can turn to  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , the
country’s largest railway, and trucking as alternatives. She
also said the two sides are “very close” to an agreement.
Ashley Kelahear, a spokesman for Raitt, said in an e-mail today
the two sides are still negotiating and the minister is
“optimistic.”  “We want to make sure the parties have some room to freely
collective bargain because we believe they should be able to
achieve a deal themselves,” Raitt said. “But if they can’t, we
will act in the best interests of the economy.”  A decision by the union two days ago to keep operating
commuter trains may give the two sides more time before the
government steps in, the  University of Toronto ’s Verma said.  Use Time Wisely  “Because the union has judiciously chosen not to affect
passenger rail service, it’s entirely possible that the
government may go more slowly on this issue,” Verma said.  Smith at Queen’s University, said the two side should use
the next few days wisely.  “If you are on either side of that bargaining table at CP
I would think you would want to take advantage of at least 5
days grace that have been given to you to try and sort things
out yourself,” he said. “They’ve intervened in virtually every
labor dispute that has occurred during their first year in
office” as a majority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  