-- Asia Stocks Decline on Europe, China Manufacturing Survey
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-05-24T10:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/asian-stocks-fall-as-european-leaders-discuss-crisis.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index dropping for a second day, as European leaders
meeting in Brussels clashed over how to fight the region’s debt
crisis and a survey showed  China ’s manufacturing may shrink for
a seventh month.  Nintendo Co., a maker of video-game consoles that depends
on Europe for a third of its sales, fell 1.7 percent in  Osaka .
Citic Pacific Ltd., a Hong Kong-based steelmaker with operations
in iron-ore mining and property development in China, slid 1.4
percent on concern China needs to do more to support growth.
Shopping center developer Renhe Commercial Holdings Co. plunged
21 percent in Hong Kong after Mizuho Securities Co. it’s target
prices.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.1 percent to 111.93 as
of 7:01 p.m. in Tokyo with five of its 10 industry groups
dropping. About as many shares gained as fell on the measure
after it swung between gains and losses at least 12 times.  The  gauge  has dropped 13 percent from this year’s high on
Feb. 29 amid investor concerns that  Greece  may abandon the euro
and put other debt-stricken nations such as Italy and Spain at
risk. Greece is scheduled to hold a second election on June 17
following an inconclusive ballot this month.  “The market is right now confused and obviously worried
about whether Greece will end up leaving the euro or not,” said
Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages almost $100 billion.
“The market is pretty convinced Greece will leave at some stage,
but the big difference is if their exit will be orderly or
disorderly, and an orderly exit has already been priced into the
market.”  Nikkei Rises  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.1 percent with
volume 5.7 percent above the 30-day average. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 dropped 0.3 percent, while South Korea’s Kospi Index gained
0.3 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index fell 0.6 percent, while the
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland stocks dropped 0.3
percent. The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the larger
of China’s stock exchanges, lost 0.5 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  added 0.2 percent in  New
York  yesterday. Futures on the gauge gained 0.3 percent today as
European leaders debated joint bond sales to contain the debt
crisis at a European Union summit in Brussels. They also called
on Greece to stick with austerity measures needed to stay in the
euro.  Exporters to Europe fell. Nintendo lost 1.7 percent to
8,950 yen in Osaka.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s biggest camera maker
that gets 31 percent of its revenue in  Europe , slid 2.2 percent
to 3,160 yen in Tokyo.  China Manufacturing  China’s manufacturing may shrink for a seventh month in May,
a private survey showed, reinforcing the need for stimulus as
Premier  Wen Jiabao  accelerates a shift in policy to support
growth. The 48.7 preliminary reading for a purchasing managers’
index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today
compares with a final 49.3 for April.  The Chinese government yesterday signaled a commitment to
boosting the economy, saying it must use policy tools for
“stable and relatively fast economic growth.” The statement
builds on Premier Wen’s comments on May 20 pledging a bigger
focus on growth.  “They need to do more to keep the economy from going into
a hard-landing scenario,” said Daniel So, a strategist at Sun
Hung Kai Securities in Hong Kong. “China is already behind the
curve with its monetary policy. They have to add before it is
too late, given that the external market is very fragile and the
European debt crisis is looming.” He spoke in a Bloomberg TV
interview with Rishaad Salamat.  Hanwha Housing Deal  Citic Pacific fell 1.4 percent to HK$11.06 in Hong Kong,
while  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (914)  gained 2.7 percent to HK$22.50.  Renhe Commercial Holdings Co. plunged 21 percent to 39.5
Hong Kong cents after Mizuho Securities analyst Alan Jin cut the
target price and reiterated its “underperform” investment
rating.  Hanwha Corp., a trader of petrochemicals and machinery,
rose 4 percent to 28,300 won in  Seoul  after its construction
unit won an $8 billion contract to build housing in  Iraq .  Stocks in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index are valued at 1.2
times book value, compared with 2.08 times for the S&P 500 and
1.31 times for the Stoxx Europe 600, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 