-- Asmussen Says Euro Area Needs Both Growth and Austerity Policies
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-24T16:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/asmussen-says-euro-area-needs-both-growth-and-austerity-policies.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said budget cuts and economic-growth plans
are not mutually exclusive and policies to deal with both are
needed in the euro area.  “The debate is not about austerity versus growth,”
Asmussen said at an event today in Sopot,  Poland . “Instead it
is about austerity and growth. We need both.”  European leaders clashed yesterday in Brussels over joint
debt sales as they urged  Greece  to make the budget cuts needed
to stay in the single currency. Asmussen said that while “no
one is against growth,” officials must find ways to increase
“growth potential” rather than introduce “short-sighted
initiatives.”  “Fiscal consolidation is not an end in itself. Rather, it
is a pre-condition for achieving sustainable growth,” he said.
“The only alternative would be to fight debt with more debt.
This is no solution.”  Asmussen, who said the “bulk of responsibility” for
resolving the debt crisis lies with politicians, advocated bonds
targeted at specific growth-inducing projects and the full
implementation of a European Union directive on freeing up
 service industries .  “Up to 1.8 percent in additional growth could be unleashed
for the EU with the full implementation of the Services
Directive,” he said.  “Financial instruments of the  European
Investment Bank  could be used, for example, for project bonds to
support infrastructure projects.”  Inflation Risks  Responding to criticism that the ECB’s liquidity policies
are stoking  inflation , Asmussen said there is “no reason to
question our commitment to  price stability .” He said inflation
will probably average 2.3 percent this year before easing and
remaining “close to, or slightly below, 2 percent for the
foreseeable future.”  “If inflationary risks were to emerge, we would take the
necessary action to prevent these risks from materializing and
withdraw any excess liquidity,” he said.  Asmussen also said that the ECB, which has injected more
than 1 trillion euros ($1.26 trillion) into the financial system
since December, has a greater role in crisis-fighting “than I
would actually like.”  “Any member of a currency union has to treat its economic
policies as a matter of common concern,” Asmussen said. “The
euro area is already much closer to a political union than many
of us realize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Sopot at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  