-- MasterCard Loses Court Challenge Over Cross-Border Card Fees
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-24T16:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/mastercard-loses-eu-court-challenge-over-cross-border-card-fees.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA)  lost a court
challenge seeking to overturn a European Union decision that the
company’s cross-border card fees violated antitrust rules.  The EU’s General Court today  backed  the European
Commission’s decision that MasterCard unfairly inflated the
transaction fees paid by retailers for processing payments.  MasterCard’s “approach tends to overestimate the costs
borne by the issuing banks and, moreover, inadequately to assess
the advantages which merchants derive from that form of
payment,” the Luxembourg-based tribunal said in the ruling.  The second-biggest card network, supported by banks
including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc , argued the so-called multilateral  interchange fees  were
crucial for sharing the costs of debit and credit card payments.
The case tested whether such levies are unfair to retailers and
customers and could be a road-map for national regulators to
pursue their own complaints.  Without the fees, “merchants would be able to exert
greater competitive pressure on the amount of costs they are
charged for the use of payment cards,” the court said.  MasterCard said it will appeal the ruling to the EU’s
highest court. Today’s decision “will ultimately make payments
more expensive for consumers” by upsetting a system that shares
costs between banks, retailers and shoppers, the Purchase, New
York-based company said in an e-mailed statement.  How to Comply  Regulators expect MasterCard to contact them “to explain
how they intend to comply with the ruling”confirming the 2007
order to pull the fees under threat of a penalty of 3.5 percent
of daily sales, said Antoine Colombani, a commission spokesman.  Visa Europe  Ltd. and MasterCard are invited “to consider
carefully how to bring their multilateral interchange fees in
the EU in line with competition rules,” EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in a statement.  Visa  Europe  is also under review by EU regulators for its
cross-border credit-card and deferred-debit transaction fees.
Almunia said last year he planned to send it a formal antitrust
complaint. Visa Europe, operator of the largest payment-card
network in the 27-nation EU, reduced similar fees for  debit
cards  last year to settle a 2009 EU complaint.  Visa Europe “would like to reach a commercially acceptable
agreement on an appropriate methodology for setting” the fees,
said Amanda Kamin, a spokeswoman for Visa Europe in London. The
company has split from  Visa Inc. (V)   National Investigations  Today’s ruling may also affect court cases and antitrust
inquiries in EU member states because it confirmed that banks
“cannot restrict competition” by using a card payment network,
the commission’s Colombani said.  The verdict makes the EU’s decision “a blueprint for
agencies such as the  Office of Fair Trading ” probing domestic
interchange fees, said Emanuela Lecchi, a lawyer at Watson,
Farley & Williams LLP in London. MasterCard makes most of its
revenue on domestic transactions; cross-border sales covered in
the EU case are a small part of earnings.  “There is a lot less work for the national authorities
because this European decision can be easily replicated,”
Lecchi said in a telephone interview. “The court has
effectively said that the multilateral interchange fee system is
not necessary for the system to operate.”  The U.K’s OFT is “reviewing the judgment and its
implications for our own investigations into MasterCard and Visa
U.K.’s multilateral interchange fee arrangements and will
provide an update in due course,” said Frank Shepherd, a
spokesman for the regulator in  London .  Retailer Complaints  Retailers have long complained about the costs. Unlike for
checks, banks charge interchange fees to process debit- and
credit-card payments. Card operators set the amounts, own the
payment networks and pass the money to the lenders. The
retailer’s bank pays the fees to the customer’s card issuer.  Five U.K. retailers, including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda,
have filed separate lawsuits in London against Mastercard this
week, according to court documents dated May 23.  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc, the smallest of the top
four U.K. grocers, is studying the decision to see “whether to
take matters further,” said Julian Bailey, a spokesman.  Nick Agarwal, a Leeds-based spokesman for Asda, confirmed
its suit and declined to comment. Clothing seller Next Retail
Ltd. declined to comment on its lawsuit, a spokesman said.  MasterCard didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment on the U.K. lawsuits.  ‘Very Good News’  The decision could also enable government limits on
interchange fees, said Brendan Doyle, chief executive officer of
CMS Payments Intelligence, which advises retailers including
Arcadia Group Plc and BP Plc. U.K. rules could save them as much
as 700 million pounds ($1.1 billion) a year, he said.  “Given the very thin operating margins and the high
insolvency rate of shops, this is very good news for
retailers,” Doyle said in a statement.  EuroCommerce called the fees an “unseen and non-negotiable
burden for merchants” costing retailers about 25 billion euros
($31 billion) a year, EuroCommerce said in an e-mailed
statement. The group, which represents Tesco Plc and  Carrefour
SA (CA) , trusts “national competition authorities will now follow”
the EU court in saying the fees are illegal.  Javier Perez, president of MasterCard Europe, said in a
telephone interview national regulators’ moves against
interchange fees may force networks to increase annual card fees
and cut benefits such as air miles or cash-back incentives.  The ruling also means MasterCard’s 2009 deal with the
commission to cap cross-border interchange fees “expires
today,” Perez said. The company would voluntarily keep fees at
the agreed levels of 0.3 percent of a transaction’s cost for
credit cards and 0.2 percent for debit cards, he said.  The case is: T-111/08, MasterCard and others v. European
Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Luxembourg at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  