-- Austria Convicts Hypo Alpe Managers over 2004 Share Deal
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-05-24T15:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/austrian-court-convicts-hypo-alpe-s-kulterer-apa-says-correct-.html
Wolfgang Kulterer, a former head of
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG, was found guilty by an
Austrian court of misusing funds by lending investors the money
to buy preference shares in a unit of the bank.  Kulterer and a fellow board member, Guenter Striedinger,
were sentenced to three-and-a-half and four years in jail,
respectively, by the court based in Klagenfurt in southern
 Austria , today, spokesman judge Christian Liebhauser-Karl said.
A lawyer and a tax consultant were also convicted for abetting
the crime in 2004, he said.  “It was shown that the accused tried to generate funds
because the bank was short of capital,” Liebhauser-Karl said
by telephone about the reasons for the verdict. “In an economic
sense it wasn’t capital that was created,” he said.  Kulterer and Striedinger were found guilty of having
arranged loans by the bank to companies in Liechtenstein who
used it to buy stakes in Hypo Alpe’s leasing subsidiary. That
was a misuse of their authority to manage Hypo Alpe’s funds as
well as violating capital rules in Austrian banking law,
according to the court’s findings.  Kulterer’s lawyer Ferdinand Lanker and Striedinger’s lawyer
Norbert Wess didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment. The defendants will all appeal today’s rulings at
Austria’s highest court, Austria Press Agency reported.  When Kulterer was in charge, the Klagenfurt-based bank was
controlled by the southern Austrian province of Carinthia,
governed by the late populist politician Joerg Haider. The
bank’s balance sheet ballooned to 30 billion euros ($38 billion)
under Kulterer’s watch. He has already pleaded guilty in 2008 of
false accounting to hide losses Hypo Alpe made with swaps while
he was CEO.  Majority Stake  Carinthia sold a majority stake in Hypo Alpe to  Bayerische
Landesbank  in 2007. The investment in Hypo led to writedowns at
BayernLB of about 3.7 billion euros. When BayernLB withdrew its
support in 2009, Hypo Alpe was rescued and nationalized by
Austria, which has since sought to bring those responsible for
the near-collapse to court.  Kulterer and two other Hypo Alpe managers were acquitted in
a separate criminal case last year, which will be retried this
year. A similar share deal to the one that was ruled on today
happened in 2006 and may be brought to court as well,
prosecutors have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  