-- Law Firms Lose Ruling in Fight Over Coudert Brothers Bankruptcy
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-24T22:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/law-firms-lose-ruling-in-fight-over-coudert-brothers-bankruptcy.html
Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP,
 Jones Day  and Dechert LLP are among 10 law firms that must
account for profits they made from Coudert Brothers LLP’s
unfinished business, a judge ruled.  Coudert filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in September 2006.
The plan administrator sued the firms in 2008 in  bankruptcy
court  claiming they were liable for any profits derived from
completing client matters that former Coudert partners brought
to their new homes. The firms argued that the doctrine didn’t
apply as the matters were billed hourly and not taken on
contingency. U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  disagreed and
denied the firms’ motion to dismiss.  “Although the New York Court of Appeals has not addressed
this precise issue, I believe that it would conclude that the
method by which the client matters were billed does not alter
the nature of Coudert’s property interest in them,” McMahon
said in a 54-page ruling today.  Coudert, founded in 1853, had more than 600 lawyers in 15
countries when it filed for bankruptcy to avoid posting bonds
related to two legal malpractice suits it lost. The law firm
began winding down in 2005. Today’s ruling could affect similar
claims in the case of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, which has retained a
restructuring company to lead its wind-down efforts. Dewey’s
equity partners, a group that numbered about 190, could be
subject to such claims, lawyers said.  McMahon ruled that former Coudert partners are obligated to
account for any profits they earned while winding down the
client matters at the firms.  “The rights and duties of the parties will be finally
settled in an accounting -- the traditional remedy for resolving
monetary disputes among former partners,” McMahon said.  Beth Huffman, a spokeswoman for Dechert, declined to
comment on the ruling. Dave Petrou, a spokesman for Jones Day,
didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment. Ben
Harris, a spokesman for Akin Gump, had no immediate comment.  The case is In Re Coudert Brothers LLP 11-cv-05994, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  