-- Balrampur Says Mills Losing Money on Controls: Corporate India
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-05-25T04:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/balrampur-says-mills-losing-money-on-controls-corporate-india.html
Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. (BRCM) ,  India ’s
best-performing sugar producer, says the industry will continue
to lose money as state controls increase costs and a slump in
global prices cuts margins on exports.  Prospects of falling profits have turned analysts the most
bearish in at least nine months on Balrampur and  Bajaj
Hindusthan Ltd. (BJH) , the country’s biggest maker of the sweetener,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The federal government
sets quarterly limits on sales by each mill to cap prices, while
state administrations fix cane rates to help about 50 million
farmers, a powerful voting bloc, earn more.  “Companies are making losses because of  government
regulation ,” Vivek Saraogi, Balrampur’s managing director, said
in an interview. “Until policy is reformed, companies will
continue making losses.”  Balrampur, which reported losses in three quarters through
December, may say profit in the three months ended March 31
 plunge d 75 percent from a year earlier to 283 million rupees
($5.1 million), according to the median estimate of three
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The Kolkata-based company is due
to announce its earnings on May 28. A slump in  New York  futures
to a 21-month low this week has reduced incentives for Indian
sugar exporters, Saraogi said.  Shielding the Poor  Producers must also sell 10 percent of their output
typically below market rates to the government for resale to the
poor at a subsidized cost. Policy makers use such controls on
essential commodities to cap  inflation , a politically sensitive
issue in India where the  World Bank  says about 75 percent of the
population lives on less than $2 a day.  Rising cane prices and surplus sugar for a second year will
also crimp earnings, said Manish Mahawar, an analyst at
Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai.  Cane prices set by state governments rose as much as 19
percent in the past year, leaving the country’s mills struggling
to pay farmers. Producers owed growers 102 billion rupees in
arrears as of March 15, Food Minister K.V. Thomas told
parliament on April 30. Mills are losing as much as 4 rupees on
every kilogram (2.2 pounds) of sugar produced in the northern
state of  Uttar Pradesh , the country’s biggest cane grower,
according to the Indian Sugar Mills Association.  ‘Negative Stance’  Production of the sweetener in the season starting Oct. 1
will probably match this year’s output of 25 million tons to
25.5 million tons, exceeding demand in the world’s biggest
consuming nation, Thomas said last month.  “We are reiterating our negative  stance  on the sugar
sector considering a surplus sugar year and higher cane cost
leading to incremental burden on companies’ financials,
primarily domestic-focus players like Balrampur Chini,”
Prabhudas’s Mahawar, wrote in an e-mail.  The consensus analyst rating for Balrampur is 3.2, the
 lowest  since September 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rating for Bajaj is 1.89, the lowest since
September. The consensus rating is the average within a range of
one to five, with five being the highest.  Balrampur, which has rallied 47 percent this year in
Mumbai, may decline to 44 rupees in a year, Mahawar, who has a
“reduce” rating on the stock, said in a report dated April 16.
The shares fell as much as 3.1 percent to 48.15 rupees before
trading at 49.40 rupees at 10:01 a.m. in Mumbai today. Bajaj
climbed 0.4 percent to 26.40 rupees, extending this year’s gains
to 12 percent.  Not Attractive  “Domestic prices will be under pressure until and unless
exports take place in a big way,” Sanjeev Singh, a Mumbai-based
analyst at Centrum Broking Pvt., said in a phone interview.  Producers are being allowed to export an unlimited amount
without prior approvals from the food ministry under a
government decision announced on May 2. Shipments reached about
1.7 million tons so far this year, the Indian Sugar Mills
Association estimates.  The government in January formed a panel headed by
Chakravarthy Rangarajan, the top economic adviser to Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh , to study demands for ending state
controls. The group will give its report in six months,
Rangarajan said Feb. 27.  “The government is running a huge subsidy budget and the
sugar industry is put into forced losses” Saraogi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  