-- Banco de Guayaquil Seeks Acquisitions in Andean Region
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-05-24T17:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/banco-de-guayaquil-seeks-acquisitions-in-andean-region-1-.html
Banco de Guayaquil SA ,  Ecuador ’s
second-biggest publicly traded bank, is seeking acquisitions in
the Andean region after the sale of its insurance unit boosted
cash holdings, Vice President of Finance Miguel Macias said.  The bank is looking for a lender to buy in Ecuador,
Colombia or Peru after booking a profit from the asset sale that
swelled its earnings more than two-fold last year, Macias said
yesterday. Zurich-based Ace Ltd. paid $55 million for the
insurance unit, which Banco de Guayaquil was forced to sell
after a change in government regulations.  “We’d like to buy something, but we haven’t found any
sellers,” Macias said in an interview at the bank’s
headquarters in Guayaquil. “Last year we opened the doors to
look in international markets.”  The bank joins Andean competitors seeking to expand
regional operations after economic growth surged to an average
6.9 percent in Colombia,  Peru  and Ecuador last year.
Acquisitions of Andean region financial firms worth $7.6 billion
were announced last year, compared with $1.2 billion the
previous year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banco de Guayaquil forecasts loans will increase 15 percent
this year while earnings climb 10 percent after excluding last
year’s extraordinary profits from the asset sale, Macias said.
The bank is looking to provide deposit accounts to Ecuadoreans
who have never kept their money at a bank before, a step toward
giving them consumer loans, he said.  Maximum Rates  Consumer lending is the most profitable loan segment amid
government-controlled  interest rates , Macias said. Ecuador,
which uses the  U.S. dollar  as its currency, stripped the central
bank of its autonomy in a 2008 constitutional referendum.  Lenders are allowed to charge as much as 16.3 percent on
consumer loans, 9.33 percent for corporate credit and 11.33
percent on mortgages, according to the central bank.  Windfall oil profits have allowed Ecuador, a member of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, to boost
 government spending  on public works projects, helping create
jobs and lift wages.  “The country has become an economy of consumption,”
Macias, 31, said. “With the controlled rates, consumer loans
have rates that are quite higher than the others.”  Banco de Guayaquil shares fell 0.6 percent to $1.54 at
12:08 p.m. local time, according to data from the Guayaquil
securities exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  