-- Banco do Brasil Is No. 1 for First Time on Equity Sales
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-05-24T16:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/banco-do-brasil-is-no-1-for-first-time-on-equity-sales.html
Banco do Brasil SA  took the No. 1
spot among equity underwriters for the nation’s share sales this
year for the first time after almost doubling assets in three
years and opening brokerages in Singapore and  New York .  The federally controlled bank,  Latin America ’s biggest by
assets, helped arrange three offerings totaling $488.6 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ’s
Bradesco BBI unit ranks second with two transactions totaling
$454.2 million.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ’s wholesale arm, Itau
BBA, which led for 2011, slumped to sixth place with five deals
and $350.4 million.  Banco do Brasil’s total assets rose to 1 trillion reais
($492 billion) at the end of the first quarter from 591.9
billion reais three years ago, Osvaldo Cervi, head of  investment
banking  and capital markets for the Brasilia-based company, said
in an interview in Sao Paulo. The bank also invested in
distribution, opening a brokerage in  Singapore  in 2011 and one
in New York in 2010, he said.  “We are partners of the companies, important lenders in
the production chain, the biggest wholesale bank in the
country,” Cervi said. “After all the investment we have made
in the area, the companies can’t explain anymore why we aren’t
one of the underwriters in their equity transactions.”  Banco do Brasil helped Banco BTG Pactual SA and its
shareholders raise 3.66 billion reais in the world’s biggest
investment-banking initial public offering in two years last
month. The firm also in April managed the 313.9 million reais
IPO of car-rental company Cia. de Locacao das Americas and
Fibria Celulose SA’s 1.44 billion reais follow-on stock sale.  Singapore, New York  Cervi has run the division since January, when the bank
started including  capital markets  and investment banking under
the wholesale arm. The business has about 250 people, including
five at the Singapore brokerage and 14 each in the New York and
London brokerages.  Renato Ejnisman, managing director of Bradesco BBI, said
his company has been “growing our stake in the equity market
last year and this year. Our revenues for the investment-banking
area as a whole are growing, even with the market in a bad
mood.”  Officials at Itau didn’t return calls for comment.  Banco do Brasil’s highest ranking for equity underwriting
at this point in the year was seventh in 2007 and 2011. It
ranked second for the first six months of 2009, the data show.  Greece, China  Share offerings in Brazil have declined 60 percent this
year from a year earlier amid the debt and political crisis in
 Greece  and a slowdown in  China . Stock sales totaled $3.3 billion
this year through May 23, with seven offerings. The volume and
the number of transactions is the lowest for the period since
2009. In the same period of 2011, companies raised $8.2 billion
in 20 issues, with Itau BBA leading the list with 15 offerings,
the data show.  “The equity market in Brazil is weak this year because of
the debt crisis in Greece and the political instability in the
countries in the  euro zone , which has been reducing the presence
of the international investor in the Brazilian markets,” Cervi
said. “The international investor is the one who buys most of
the equity offerings in  Brazil .”  Locamericas’ April 20 sale, the first IPO in Brazil since
July, sold at 9 reais each, or 36 percent below the upper end of
the target range. Investors agreed to pay 14 reais for share of
furniture maker Unicasa Industria de Moveis SA on April 26,
compared with an expected price range of 16.50 reais to 20.50
reais.  Unfavorable Conditions  Brasil Travel Turismo & Participacoes SA canceled its
offering in February, citing “unfavorable” market conditions.  Locamerica has dropped 11 percent since the IPO through
yesterday, while BTG, which was sold at the mid-point of the
28.75 reais to 33.75 reais range price, declined 16 percent.
Unicasa gained 9 percent.  Brazil’s stock regulator, known as CVM, has six companies
ready to sell shares. Banco do Brasil is working on three of the
six, none as the lead underwriter.  The bank has nine offerings waiting for better market
conditions, Cervi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  