-- Banks Urge EU Lawmakers to Back Derivatives Competition Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-05-24T15:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/banks-urge-eu-lawmakers-to-back-derivatives-competition-plan.html
Banks in the European Union are
urging lawmakers to drop their opposition to plans for boosting
competition in the clearing of derivatives trades, saying the
proposals would spur economic growth.  “Choice and efficiency in clearing services is essential
to support Europe’s economic growth,” Werner Frey, a managing
director at the Association for Financial Markets in Europe,
said in an e-mail. AFME represents international lenders
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP Paribas SA. (BNP)   Members of the European Parliament’s  Christian Democrat ,
Socialist and Liberal groups have said they intend to fight
proposals from Michel Barnier, the bloc’s financial services
chief, to force exchanges to share trade data with rival
clearinghouses, amid fears the move would threaten market
stability. This has brought them into conflict with
lenders, who are urging the assembly to support the draft law.  EU antitrust officials vetoed merger plans by Deutsche
Boerse and NYSE Euronext in February after concluding that the
combination could threaten competition for trading in some
derivatives. Barnier urged  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust
chief, to take the competition-boosting effect of the draft law
into account when deciding whether the merger should be
permitted.  “Open access is a key element to enable choice and
competition in this marketplace,” AFME’s Frey said.  The legislators’ push to remove the data access provisions
from the draft law is backed by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , which warned
yesterday that Barnier’s plans will endanger market integrity.  “Only rare circumstances justify restricting competition
and transparency,”  Richard Portes , professor of economics at
the London Business School, said in an e-mail.  “Of course incumbents lobby politicians for such
restrictions, but Deutsche Boerse’s claims are self-serving and
do not make a convincing case,” Portes said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  