-- Barnes Art Plopped Into Bloated Mausoleum: Lance Esplund
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-05-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/barnes-art-plopped-into-bloated-mausoleum-lance-esplund.html
The creation of the new $150 million
 Barnes Foundation  is the greatest preventable cultural tragedy
of our era. And taxpayers footed one third of the bill for this
bloated and inferior institution now located in downtown
Philadelphia.  In 1922 the medical doctor, chemist and passionate
collector Albert Coombs Barnes (1872-1951) created his
foundation, a school for the appreciation of art, philosophy and
horticulture.  He commissioned Paul Philippe Cret to design a refined,
two-story Italianate villa adorned with sculptures by Jacques
Lipchitz on a 12-acre arboretum in Merion, Pennsylvania, 5 miles
from Center City.  Its intimate suite of 24 interconnected galleries housed
Barnes’s unmatched, multibillion dollar collection of
Impressionist, Post-Impressionist and early Modern art.  Among the hundreds of works are 181 Renoirs, 69 Cezannes,
59 Matisses and 46 Picassos.  But the collection, which ironically was initially
dismissed by the Philadelphia elite, is much greater than the
sum of its masterpieces.  Barnes arranged his Modern artworks salon-style and
interspersed them with works by European  Old Masters , Egyptian
carvings, African masks, ironwork, textiles, furniture, Native
American, Greco-Roman and folk art.  Courbet Nude  The revolutionary installation allowed the art of different
cultures to speak individually and, further, to open up one
another, to sing in chorus.  A splayed, flayed rabbit by Soutine was answered by the
figure of Christ in a Gerard David crucifixion, which, in turn,
was echoed in the extended arms of an early American spinning
wheel.  An inscribed, painted heart on a Pennsylvania-German chest
of drawers was mirrored by the heart-shaped buttocks of a
Courbet nude who seductively opens her legs as she adjusts her
stocking. Flanking andirons transform her exposed sex into a
glowing hearth.  One of the most spectacular art installations in the world,
the Foundation was sui generis, timeless.  Barnes stated in his will that he wished for the artworks
never to be loaned or moved, not even an inch.  In 2004, a judge ruled otherwise, stipulating that the
collection could move but that the galleries must be more or
less replicated.  Strong-Arm Tactics  Gross mismanagement, propaganda and strong-arm tactics
combined to wrench Barnes’s art from its perfectly workable and
accessible home and move it to a new building downtown.  Think of it as a form of looting. Just because it was in
some way legal doesn’t mean it was ethical.  Nearly everything is wrong. There’s now a “supporting”
collection of tasteless, inappropriate contemporary artworks and
light fixtures, textured-pizzeria walls and ceilings and
intense, even light.  Taken together, the new Barnes is a worst-case example of
philistinism, provincialism and avarice masquerading as public
service and community outreach.  If you have experienced the old Barnes, you will be shocked
by how disembodied and already outdated the new place feels.  Crowding Galleries  Visitors, crowding galleries the size of small bedrooms,
are expected to increase fourfold.  An intrusive indoor garden and classroom with an LCD screen
have been inserted between galleries. These new spaces disrupt
the original flow and destroy Barnes’s orchestrated sightlines
between rooms and artworks.  In the main gallery, track lighting interferes with viewing
Matisse’s monumental, site-specific mural “The Dance” (1932-
33), which is ill-fitting, over-lit and no longer anchored by
Merion’s crown molding.  Below Matisse’s mural, instead of Merion’s gardens, windows
reveal cars whizzing by on the Benjamin Franklin Parkway.  Many have praised the new galleries’ state-of-the-art
lighting system, which automatically regulates its combination
of natural and artificial light. Indeed, the galleries are much
brighter now.  No one bothers to mention that for years at the old Barnes,
which was outfitted with new windows, the blinds and curtains
were almost always closed.  I visited the new Barnes on a cloudy morning and found the
lighting distracting, overbearing and uniform. Rather than
allowing colors to breathe, at times it completely washed out
the paintings.  Oversize Mausoleum  Just getting into the place is dispiriting. Crossing a
darkened moat and entering the somber, stone building designed
by Manhattan firm  Tod Williams Billie Tsien  is like moving ever-
deeper into an oversize mausoleum where the collection feels not
installed but entombed.  After a series of confusing twists and turns that culminate
in a vast, diagonal trek across the Walter and Lenore Annenberg
Court, you enter through a set of ugly bronze doors into a tiny
foyer -- a constricted wasteland occupied by a lone, nonworking
grandfather clock.  The enormous Annenberg Court, which dwarfs the galleries,
is a vacuous space added for crowd control whose other function
will be to accommodate parties for the wealthy. Let’s recall
that the Annenbergs and Dr. Barnes despised one another.  Barnes’s gift was not limited to his masterpieces. It was
an organic whole that included the buildings, grounds and
gardens.  Cherry-Picking Art  Crying “sustainability,” improved “access” and
“education,” the Philadelphia establishment,  Pennsylvania 
politicians, the  Lenfest  and  Annenberg Foundation s and the  Pew
Charitable Trusts  led the charge to uproot the Barnes, cherry-
picking the artworks and literally leaving everything else
behind.  Still protesting outside the day I visited were members of
the  Friends of the Barnes Foundation , a group that fought to
keep the collection in Merion. One held up a sign: “R.I.P.
Donor Intent.”  It’s true. Nothing legitimizes this assault on a
benefactor’s wishes and the unforgivable breach of historic
preservation: Embedded now in at least one wall in every gallery
-- intermingling with the Cezannes, Matisses and Renoirs -- is a
large, glowing red “Exit” sign, the new Barnes’s most
consistent and prominent feature.  Matisse remarked that the old Barnes was “the only sane”
place to view art in America. For Barnes, the Matisse mural,
like a “rose window,” transformed his Foundation into a
cathedral.  Soulless Shell  A vestige of its former self, the Barnes has been reduced
to artificial period rooms housing a great group of pictures.
Comparatively, it is a repackaged and rebranded commodity, a
soulless shell.  Walking through the galleries, I became increasingly
bereft.  Gone forever, the Barnes Foundation deserves a eulogy.  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  theater  and  movie  reviews.  To contact the writer on the story: Lance Esplund in  New York  at
 lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 