-- BBVA Studies Sale of Latin American Pensions Operations
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-05-24T08:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/bbva-to-study-selling-its-latin-american-pensions-businesses.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  is
considering selling all or part of its pensions units in Chile,
Colombia, Peru and  Mexico  as Spanish banks step up sales of
assets in  Latin America .  BBVA is planning the sale because there isn’t a big enough
overlap between its pensions unit and its consumer-banking
operations in those countries,  Spain ’s second-biggest lender
said in a filing to regulators today. Any sale probably won’t
happen this year, the Bilbao-based company said.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest lender, has also been
selling assets in Latin America as it prepares an offering of
shares in its Mexican bank later this year. It follows the sale
of its lender in Colombia and insurance businesses and stakes in
its Brazilian and Chilean units. Spanish banks are under
pressure to raise capital as the government makes them recognize
more losses on real estate piled up on balance sheets during the
country’s real estate boom.  “BBVA maintains its strategic commitment for the Latin
American market and shall continue to invest in the region,”
the bank said in the statement.  BBVA’s Latin American pensions business that may be sold
has assets under management of 55 billion euros ($69 billion)
and posted 183 million euros of profit in 2011.  ING Groep NV last July announced the sale of most of its
Latin American insurance operations to  Colombia ’s Grupo de
Inversiones Suramericana for about 2.7 billion euros in a
transaction that valued the business at about 16 times earnings.
Applying the same multiple to a possible BBVA sale would value
the units at about 3 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
SAN SM <Equity>
INGA NA <Equity>
BBVA SM <Equity> 