-- Belarus to Audit Credexbank Amid U.S. Money Laundering Claims
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 2012-05-24T10:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/belarus-to-audit-credexbank-amid-u-s-money-laundering-claims.html
Belarus will perform an unscheduled
audit of Credexbank, a small, private Minsk-based lender which
the U.S. Treasury Department accused of  money laundering , the
eastern European nation’s central bank said.  “The need for further measures will be considered based on
the results of the audit,” the central bank  said  today on its
website. Credexbank has denied any wrongdoing.  The Treasury on May 22 proposed  prohibiting  American
financial institutions from working with Credexbank amid
suspicions the bank is “of prime money-laundering concern.”  The bank may have been  laundering  money since at least 2006
and wired more than $1 billion in a two-month period of 2010 to
hundreds of shell corporations, as well as transferring about
$10 million to the U.S. using “nested accounts” via European
banks and money service businesses in a span of over a year,
according to a report published on the Treasury Department’s
website.  “Credexbank ascertains the groundlessness of judgments by
the U.S. Treasury Department with regard to the bank’s
operations, as well as in regard of the very possibility of a
minor Belorussian bank playing a role of a key money laundering
hub on a worldwide scale,” the lender  said  in a statement
published on its website on May 23.  Credexbank is the 22nd largest of Belarus’s 31 commercial
banks by  assets . It is  owned  by the Fribourg, Switzerland-based
company Vicpart Holding SA, has a branch office in the  Czech
Republic  and operates a network of five automated tellers,
according to information on the bank’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  