-- Bharti Buys 49% Stake in Qualcomm India Broadband Unit
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-05-24T13:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/bharti-airtel-buys-49-stake-in-qualcomm-s-india-broadband-unit.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s largest
mobile operator, bought 49 percent of  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s fourth-
generation wireless venture that will expand coverage of high-
speed services to include the nation’s two biggest cities.  Bharti paid $165 million to purchase the stake in
Qualcomm’s India unit, which owns licenses and spectrum to
operate in four telecommunications zones, according to an e-mail
statement today. Bharti will buy the rest of Qualcomm’s stake by
the end of 2014, according to the statement.  Qualcomm, the biggest maker of mobile-phone chips, bought
the licenses at an auction two years ago with the goal of
propagating 4G technology known as long-term evolution, or LTE,
in India and then selling them to a local operator. The deal
doubles Bharti’s area for high-speed data coverage in the
world’s second-largest market for mobile-phone services.  The spectrum, which allows operators to provide higher-cost
services such as video downloads and streaming media, is coveted
in India because call rates have fallen to as low as a penny a
minute. The deal, including assumed debt, at completion in 2014
will be worth as much as $1.2 billion, according to a person
familiar with the deal.  Qualcomm, based in  San Diego , bought licenses for Mumbai
and the states of Delhi, Kerala and Haryana in a government
auction in June 2010, paying 49.1 billion rupees ($882 million)
for the rights. About 80 percent of the purchase was financed
with debt, two people familiar with the matter said.  Local Partners  Bharti bought Qualcomm’s local partners  Tulip Telecom Ltd. (TTSL) 
and Global Holding Corp., which each held 13 percent of the
joint venture. Tulip and Global each received about $40 million
in cash from Bharti, one of the people said. Barclays Plc
advised Qualcomm on the deal.  Raza Khan, a spokesman for Bharti, and Ramakrishna Bellam,
a spokesman for Global Holding, declined to comment. Tulip
Chairman Hardeep Singh Bedi also declined to comment.  Bharti, based in  New Delhi , also participated in the 4G
auction in 2010, agreeing to pay 33.1 billion rupees for permits
in the states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Punjab and Kolkata.  India, which divides the nation into 22 telecommunication
zones, auctioned the licenses individually.  Infotel Broadband Services Ltd., now a unit of billionaire
 Mukesh Ambani ’s  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , was the only company
that secured 4G licenses in all 22 zones.  Shares of Tulip rose 2.7 percent to 75.45 rupees at close
in Mumbai. Bharti surged 5.6 percent to 297.80 rupees, the most
since Feb. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  