-- MBIA Tells Court Restructuring Protects All Policyholders
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-24T22:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/mbia-restructuring-protects-all-policyholders-lawyer-says-1-.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI) ’s 2009 restructuring was
approved by  New York  regulators because it protected all
policyholders, including the banks challenging the decision, a
lawyer for the bond insurer told a trial judge.  Banks suing MBIA can’t prove their argument that the
approval of the restructuring was “arbitrary and capricious,”
 Marc Kasowitz , an attorney with  Kasowitz Benson Torres &
Friedman LLP  representing Armonk, New York-based MBIA, told a
state judge today in  Manhattan .  “The banks are throwing as much money as they can at the
wall in the hope that something will stick,” Kasowitz said.  Justice Barbara Kapnick of state  Supreme Court  is hearing a
nonjury trial on claims by  Bank of America Corp.  and  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  that the February 2009 approval of MBIA’s proposal
by then-Superintendent  Eric Dinallo  was based on inaccurate and
incomplete information and should be annulled.  More than a dozen financial institutions sued MBIA and the
state insurance department in 2009 over the restructuring. Bank
of America and Societe Generale are the only banks left in the
litigation after JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley, UBS AG
and other banks dropped out.  The banks claim the restructuring exposed them to losses as
policyholders by transferring $5 billion in assets out of an
MBIA unit that insured risky mortgage debt.  Another Lawsuit  The case being tried by Kapnick is a challenge to the
approval brought under the state’s Article 78 law, which allows
challenges of administrative decisions. Bank of America and
 Societe Generale  have another lawsuit pending against MBIA, and
MBIA is suing Bank of America over mortgage loans.  David Holgado, a lawyer in state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office, earlier this week asked Kapnick to
dismiss the lawsuit, saying the approval was rational and based
on an “extraordinary” analysis by a former Insurance
Department official, Jack Buchmiller.  The banks have argued that Buchmiller’s analysis was rushed
and based on inaccurate and incomplete information provided by
the company.  Kasowitz said the approval was based on a yearlong state
investigation that included weeks of on-site review at MBIA’s
headquarters by Buchmiller and other department officials, who
had so much access to the company that they were given internal
e-mail addresses.  ‘Unfettered Access’  “These people who were reviewing MBIA’s financials had
close and unfettered access,” Kasowitz said.  The banks’ arguments that the restructuring was a “secret
plan” about which they weren’t notified conflicts with
statements issued in February 2008 after MBIA announced the
proposal, including a Bank of America equity research note that
said it was “feasible and reasonable,” Kasowitz said.  “This secrecy argument turns out to be absolutely false,”
Kasowitz said. “The banks knew all along about the proposed
transformation.”  The trial began May 15 and is expected to last two to four
weeks. Lawyers for the banks made their opening statements last
week, and attorneys for the state completed theirs earlier this
week. Kasowitz is scheduled to continue his arguments when the
proceedings resume on May 29.  Documents Access  Separately, MBIA won access to documents the bond insurer
is seeking in its lawsuit against Bank of America and its
Countrywide Financial unit over  mortgage loans . MBIA says the
information is relevant to claims that it insured loans that
were riskier than promised.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten
ordered Countrywide to produce materials about fraud
investigations by a former employee who was fired and
accusations by an ex-employee of fraud in Countrywide’s loan
origination process, according to a decision filed today and
dated May 15. The judge also ordered the production of meeting
minutes of three Countrywide senior management committees.  The cases are  ABN Amro  Bank v. Dinallo, 601846-2009; ABN
Amro v. MBIA, 601475/2009; and MBIA Insurance v. Countrywide,
602825/2008; New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 