-- BlackRock’s Fink Says Buyback Shows Stocks Are Cheap
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-05-24T15:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/blackrock-s-fink-says-buyback-shows-stocks-are-cheap.html
Laurence D. Fink, chairman and chief
executive officer of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said the money manager’s
repurchase of stock from Barclays Plc demonstrates his belief
that equities are cheap compared with bonds.  “These are scary times, I’m not trying to suggest they’re
not, but I think because they’re scary times, it’s a good entry
level to be a long-term investor,” Fink said today at the
company’s annual meeting in New York. BlackRock’s buy back of
shares valued at $1 billion from Barclays is “a very good
example of the relative cheapness of equities versus  interest
rates ,” he said.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, said
this week it was selling its entire 19.6 percent stake in
BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager, for proceeds of
about $5.5 billion ahead of regulations that would force the
lender to set aside capital to cushion itself against a decline
in the holding. As part of the transaction, BlackRock will buy
back 6.38 million shares at $156.80 a share, about 8.8 percent
less than the stock’s 171.90 close on May 18, the last trading
day before the deal was announced.  BlackRock, based in  New York , issued $1.5 billion of bonds
at its lowest coupons on record to help fund the share
repurchase. The firm sold $750 million each of 1.375 percent,
three-year notes and 3.375 percent, 10-year debt at 165 basis
points.  “At the price we were able to buy our stock back, our
dividend was three and three-quarters percent,” said Fink, 59.  BlackRock’s shares rose 0.62 percent to $168.54 at 10:20
a.m. in New York. The stock fell to near a six-month low of
$163.37 on May 22.  Less Volatile  Investors who buy a diversified portfolio of multinational
companies with at least a 3 percent dividend that are also
poised for growth could expect to see returns from 7 percent to
8 percent over a 10-year cycle, Fink said. The benefit of
dividend stocks is that they’re also less volatile, he said.  BlackRock in February started a “new world” campaign to
tell clients how to invest in an uncertain market. Four-page
inserts appeared in publications including the Wall Street
Journal and the Financial Times as part of the branding
initiative. Fink and other BlackRock executives have spoken
publicly about how investors can be harmed by staying in cash-
like products and focusing on short-term investing.  Barclays became a BlackRock shareholder after the asset
manager acquired the lender’s  Barclays Global Investors  unit in
December 2009. The transaction allowed BlackRock to add passive
strategies such as exchange-traded funds to its actively managed
stock and bond funds and  hedge funds , giving it the broadest
array of products among money managers. The firm managed $3.68
trillion in assets as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  