-- BMW Fined $163 Million by Swiss Competition Regulator
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 2012-05-24T10:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/bmw-fined-163-million-by-swiss-competition-regulator.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  was fined
156 million Swiss francs ($163 million), the largest levy
against a carmaker by the country’s competition authorities, for
blocking Swiss customers from buying autos elsewhere in  Europe .  The penalty was imposed on the world’s biggest maker of
 luxury vehicles  for “impeding direct and parallel imports,”
the Swiss Competition Commission said today in a statement. BMW
said it plans to challenge the fine in Swiss courts.  “The fine is surprisingly high, considering how small the
Swiss market is,” said  Daniel Schwarz , a Frankfurt-based
analyst with Commerzbank. “It reflects Switzerland’s problem of
trying to protect its domestic market from the appreciation of
its currency.”  Swiss residents looked for bargains outside the country as
the debt crisis caused the Swiss franc to rise about 20 percent
against the euro over the past two years, making products in
neighboring  France  and  Germany  cheaper. The BMW 316d costs
43,610 Swiss francs ($45,530), while the same model in Germany
costs 30,600 euros ($38,370), according to BMW’s website. A
total of 319,000 cars were sold in Switzerland last year,
compared with 3.2 million in Germany.  BMW  shares  rose as much as 77 cents, or 1.3 percent, to
62.58 euros and were up 0.4 percent as of 12:12 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading. The stock has gained 20 percent this year,
valuing the company at 39.6 billion euros.  BMW’s Appeal  The fine is the third largest sought by the regulator. The
competition commission ordered  Swisscom AG (SCMN)  to pay 333 million
francs in 2007, though that fine was overturned in an appeal.
BMW is hoping for the same outcome.  “We categorically reject the proceedings,” said Sandra
Schillmoeller, a BMW spokeswoman in Munich. “The charges are
incomprehensible and unfounded. We will appeal.”  The antitrust agency said today that BMW and the company’s
Mini brand should change distribution contracts to allow dealers
to export cars to  Switzerland . The regulator got “numerous”
complaints from consumers who couldn’t buy cars in the second
half of 2010, when the franc’s gain against the euro increased
the price difference of cars in Switzerland and neighboring
countries, it said.  ‘Proportionate Fine’  “The fine is high, but we believe it’s proportionate,”
Vincent Martenet, the commission’s president, said in an
interview in Bern, adding that there were no further
investigations planned in the car industry.  BMW said “several hundred cars” were imported directly to
Switzerland during the time under investigation and the country
wasn’t shut off. The company said prices reflect differences in
configurations and local services and costs.  Swiss regulators said Oct. 26, 2010, they had information
suggesting BMW branches were barring sales to Swiss citizens in
the European Economic Area, which includes the 27 members of the
European Union, as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein and  Norway . At
the time, BMW was selling the 5-Series sedan in Switzerland for
about 24 percent more than the German version.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  