-- BofA May Turn Profit on Mortgage Buybacks, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-05-24T20:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/bofa-may-turn-profit-on-mortgage-buybacks-credit-suisse-says.html
Freddie Mac’s decision to force  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  to repurchase $330 million of mortgages from
its securities may result in a profit for the lender while
triggering investor losses, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The bank broke Freddie Mac rules by using computer programs
instead of appraisers to value certain properties. With the
bonds trading at large premiums to face value because of the
high interest rates on the underlying loans being purchased
by Bank of America at par, investor losses probably exceed $20
million, based on characteristics of about $100 million of debt
identified, said  Mahesh Swaminathan , a Credit Suisse analyst.  Bank of America may be able to get loans “re-pooled”
after manual appraisals into new  Freddie Mac  bonds that trade at
similar values, Swaminathan wrote today in a report. It’s also
possible the government-supported firm could accept the debt
while charging higher guarantee fees, he said in a telephone
interview. The lender also may be able to avoid losses on at
least some of the loans through sales to other banks, he said.  “Some investors have questioned whether this would result
in a profit for BoA at the expense of the investor,” wrote
Swaminathan, head of Credit Suisse’s residential mortgage-bond
strategy. “This is a legitimate concern, though” the buyouts
may have been unavoidable as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae face
recent restrictions from their regulator on how they deal with
faulty loans.  ‘Not Eligible’  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America, declined to comment on its plans for the
mortgages, whose repurchases at par were disclosed May 22.  “These loans are not eligible for resale through Freddie
Mac’s flow business and we have no intention of buying them back
through any other channel,”  Brad German , a spokesman for the
McLean, Virginia-based company, said in an e-mailed statement.  The “vast majority” of the debt being repurchased isn’t
delinquent, Frahm said. Under Freddie Mac’s rules, mortgage
servicers typically must buy loans out of bonds while retaining
the firm’s guarantees once borrowers fall more than 120 days
behind to rework debt or manage foreclosures.  Homeowner credit scores for the loans that Bank of America
is repurchasing are “very good,” though the debt generally
includes “high” loan-to-value ratios and a sizable amount of
property investors, Morgan Stanley analysts Vipul Jain and
Janaki Rao said yesterday in a report, based on the disclosed
pools that showed the mortgages made at least as early as July
2009 and through last year.  Defective Loans  Much of the debt may have been originated under Freddie
Mac’s version of the federal Home Affordable Refinance Program
for current borrowers with less than 20 percent home equity,
according to analysts at Credit Suisse, Morgan Stanley and
Nomura Securities International. Until a revamp last year,
Freddie Mac was more accepting of automated valuation models
under HARP than  Fannie Mae .  Bank of America has booked more than $42 billion in costs
tied to defective home loans and servicing, mainly from forced
buybacks of soured debt made by Countrywide Financial Corp.
whose underwriting failed to match its promise. The bank bought
Countrywide, then the biggest U.S. home lender, in 2008.  In January 2011, Freddie Mac and the bank reached a $1.28
billion settlement over Countrywide loans sold through 2008.  The inspector general for the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , the regulator for Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, criticized
that deal in a September  report , leading to an expansion of the
amount of loan files reviewed. Bank of America’s new repurchases
weren’t tied “to any revised loan sampling methodology,”
German said yesterday. “We believe the contract violations that
triggered it constituted a one-time occurrence.”  ‘One-Time Occurrence’  Bank of America’s “error” that allowed the use of
computer appraisals on properties such as two-to-four unit and
manufactured housing “has been corrected,” with the
repurchases a “one-time occurrence,” Frahm said.  A freeze on Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae cash settlements
with lenders instituted by the FHFA in the wake of the report
may have helped create some of the buyouts, Credit Suisse’s
Swaminathan said. Freddie Mac also sometimes has a lender
indemnify it for losses without repurchases, securities filings
show. German declined to comment on the company’s approach.  Buyouts may have been inevitable if different property
 valuation  techniques would have shown loans to be ineligible for
the types of Freddie Mac securities into which they were
packaged, Swaminathan said.  The weighted average  interest rate  on loans in the
securities listed in a Freddie Mac statement as most affected by
the buybacks is 5.91 percent, compared with typical rates on new
loans of less than 4 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The loans to be repurchased account for 52 percent of the
collateral for those bonds, which traded at almost 110 cents on
the dollar, according to Bloomberg Valuation prices. Investors
will be paid off at par, or 100 cents, and lose the above-market
rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  