-- Bovespa Falls as B2W Sinks on Growth Concern; Homebuilders Rise
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-05-24T21:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/bovespa-stock-index-futures-decline-on-global-growth-concern.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index fell for a
third day as online retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  led
consumer stocks lower on mounting concern that a deeper global
slowdown will curb growth in Brazil.  Consumer product maker Hypermarcas SA tumbled to a four-
month low. Banco Santander Brasil SA dropped the most in a month
after newspaper O Estado de S.Paulo reported President  Dilma Rousseff  blocked the purchase of a minority stake in the lender
by state-run competitor  Banco do Brasil SA . Homebuilders
rebounded after a report showed the country’s unemployment rate
fell.  The Bovespa declined 1 percent to 54,063 at the close in
Sao Paulo. Forty-seven stocks retreated on the gauge while
seventeen advanced. The real strengthened 0.2 percent to 2.0292
per dollar after the central bank offered currency swap
contracts at auction for a fourth day in a week.  “We’re seeing weak economic data all around the world,
which adds to concern that Brazil will have more difficulties
boosting domestic growth,” said  Pedro Galdi , the head analyst
at SLW Corretora brokerage. “The government announced some
stimulus measures this week, but it’s not very clear if it will
be enough to sustain a stronger recovery.”  European manufacturing and services output dropped in May,
German business confidence declined and Britain’s first-quarter
contraction was deeper than previously estimated, separate
reports showed today.  China ’s biggest banks may fall short of
loan targets for the first time in at least seven years as an
economic slowdown crimps demand for credit, three bank officials
with knowledge of the matter said.  B2W, Hypermarcas  B2W fell 6.1 percent to 6 reais, the lowest since March
2005. Hypermarcas, a maker of more than 190 consumer products,
retreated 2.6 percent to 10.28 reais, the lowest in four months.
Tobacco company Souza Cruz SA declined 1.8 percent to 25.85
reais.  Brazil  earlier this week lowered banks’ reserve
requirements and cut taxes for consumers buying new cars in an
attempt to shore up growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  A report from the national statistics agency today showed
Brazil’s unemployment rate fell to 6 percent in April, from 6.2
percent in March. The rate was below the median forecast of 6.2
percent from 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  BM&F Bovespa Real Estate Index (IMOBBV)  advanced 0.9 percent,
paring this month’s decline to 12 percent.  “As these companies have fallen so much in the past weeks,
investors began to look for bargains in the real estate sector,
and data showing unemployment is stable help the outlook for
homebuilders,” Luis Gustavo Pereira, an analyst at Futura
Corretora, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  PDG, Rossi  PDG Realty (PDGR3) , Brazil’s biggest home builder by revenue,
rallied 11 percent to 3.41 reais, the biggest gain on the
Bovespa, cutting this month decline to 24 percent. Rossi
Residencial SA gained 5.1 percent to 5.57 reais.  Santander Brasil tumbled 4.9 percent to 15.80 reais.
Rousseff blocked a purchase by  Banco do Brasil  of a minority
stake in the lender to avoid more concentration in the banking
industry, Estado reported today, without saying where it got the
information. Santander, Banco do Brasil and Rousseff’s press
office declined to comment.  Banco do Brasil gained 0.5 percent to 20.62 reais after
earlier rising as much as 3.1 percent.  Bear Market  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  on May 17 after tumbling
21 percent from this year’s high on March 13 through that day.
The gauge trades at 8.9 times analysts’ earnings estimates for
the next four quarters, which compares with the 9.6 ratio for
MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Stocks seem to be nearing a bottom,” Jason Vieira, an
analyst at Cruzeiro do Sul Corretora, said by phone from  Sao
Paulo . “Even considering that there is concern about growth in
Brazil and the external outlook is worrisome, the market’s
reaction to these problems seems a bit exaggerated.”  Trading volume was 7.12 billion reais ($3.51 billion) in
stocks in Sao Paulo today, data compiled by Bloomberg say. That
compares with a daily average of 7.29 billion reais this year
through May 23, according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in  New York  at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  