-- Brazil’s Klein Family Said to Use Citi on Via Varejo Deal
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-05-24T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/brazil-s-klein-family-said-to-use-citi-on-via-varejo-deal.html
Brazil’s billionaire Klein family
hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Arion Capital to advise on a plan to
buy out  Cia Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar  in
retailer  Via Varejo SA (VVAR3)  for as much as 3.5 billion reais ($1.71
billion), two people familiar with the matter said.  Samuel Klein and his son Michael have a 47 percent stake in
Sao Caetano do Sul-based Via Varejo, which has a market value of
6.2 billion reais, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Kleins have informed Pao de Acucar of their plan to make an
offer for its 52 percent stake in Via Varejo, said one of the
people, who asked to not be named because the plans haven’t been
announced.  Booming consumer demand in  Brazil  has made billionaires of
Samuel Klein, a Polish immigrant and Holocaust survivor, and his
son. In 2010, Samuel Klein sold a stake in his chain of home-
appliance stores, Casas Bahia Comercial Ltda., to Pao de Acucar.
The combination resulted in Via Varejo.  The Kleins are considering making an offer for Via Varejo
after  France ’s  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  exercises its option
to became the sole controlling shareholder of Pao de Acucar on
June 22, one of people said.  Michael Klein  has spoken with Pao de Acucar Chairman Abilio Diniz and Casino about the acquisition, Veja magazine reported
on May 12.  A representative for Klein in Sao Paulo who asked not to be
named said no talks are under way. Officials at Citigroup, Sao
Paulo-based Arion and Saint-Etienne-based Casino declined to
comment. Pao de Acucar hasn’t been notified about the Kleins’
plan, according to a company official who asked not to be named.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  