-- Brazilian Stock Movers: LLX, Santander Brasil and Via Varejo
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-05-24T20:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/brazilian-stock-movers-llx-santander-brasil-and-via-varejo.html
The following companies had  unusual 
price changes in  Sao Paulo  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of the close. Preferred shares
are usually the most-traded class of stock.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index fell 1 percent to 54,063.  Banco Santander Brasil SA (BSBR)  (SANB11 BS) dropped 4.9 percent
to 15.80 reais, the most in six weeks. Newspaper O Estado de S.
Paulo reported today that President  Dilma Rousseff  blocked a
purchase of a minority stake by  Banco do Brasil SA . The
president blocked the deal to avoid more concentration in the
banking industry, Estado reported, without saying where it got
the information. Banco do Brasil and Banco Santander Brasil’s
press offices declined to comment. Rousseff’s press office
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Banco do
Brasil  (BBAS3 BS) gained 0.5 percent to 20.62 reais.  Via Varejo SA (VVAR3)  (VVAR3 BS), a Brazilian retailer of household
appliances and electronics, fell 4 percent to 19.20 reais, the
lowest in three months.  Brazil ’s billionaire Klein family hired
Citigroup Inc. and Arion Capital to advise on a plan to buy out
 Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar ’s stake in
the company for as much as 3.5 billion reais ($1.7 billion), two
people familiar with the matter said. Samuel Klein and his son
Michael have a 47 percent stake in Sao Caetano do Sul-based Via
Varejo.  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  (LLXL3 BS) fell 0.4 percent to 2.36 reais,
after earlier climbing as much as 4.2 percent and dropping as
much as 3.8 percent. The logistics unit of billionaire  Eike Batista ’s group said Flexibras Tubos Flexiveis Ltda., or Technip
Brasil, received an environmental license to build a plant at
its Acu port complex in the Brazilian state of  Rio de Janeiro .
The factory is expected to start operations in 2013, LLX said in
a regulatory filing today.  Cia. Energetica do Ceara  (COCE3 BS) fell 0.6 percent to
32.68 reais. The Brazilian power distributor controlled by
 Endesa SA (ELE)  said its board authorized the company, known as
Coelce, to get a loan of as much as 310 million reais from
Brazil’s state-controlled development bank, BNDES.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  