-- Brazil’s Unemployment Rate Unexpectedly Fell to 6% in April
-- B y   J o s h   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-05-24T14:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/brazil-s-unemployment-rate-unexpectedly-fell-to-6-in-april-2-.html
Brazil ’s  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly declined in April, adding to evidence that the
labor market remains tight and may limit the room for more
interest rate cuts.  Joblessness fell to 6 percent in April from 6.2 percent the
month before, the national statistics agency said today in a
report distributed in Rio de Janeiro. The number was the lowest
ever for April and below the 6.2 percent  median  forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 38 analysts.  Yields on interest rate futures rose as traders increased
bets policy makers will have to reverse course and raise rates
early next year after reducing borrowing costs to a record low.
Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said this week that
record low unemployment and wage increases, along with credit
growth, are helping sustain domestic demand even as economic
growth slowed.  “The labor market remains tight,”  Newton Rosa , chief
economist at SulAmerica Investimentos, said in a phone interview
from  Sao Paulo . Rising wages “may keep the pressure on service
prices, limiting a drop in the inflation rate. This may limit
the room for bigger interest rate cuts.”  The yield on the interest rate future contracts maturing in
January 2014 rose 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to
8.46 percent at 11:38 a.m. local time. The real declined 0.9
percent to 2.0509 per dollar.  Rising Wages  Workers’ average income in April rose 6.2 percent from a
year ago to 1,719.50 reais ($846) a month, today’s report
showed. Compared with March, income declined 1.2 percent.  Economic recovery in Brazil has been slower than expected
even as the government cut  interest rates  close to a record low,
reduced taxes and increased subsidized credit to businesses.
Traders are wagering that Tombini will cut the benchmark Selic
rate for a seventh straight meeting next week to provide further
support for the economy amid the  European debt crisis  and a
slowdown in  China .  Even as the economy has slowed, unemployment has remained
at levels that stoke inflation, due to strong demand for labor-
intensive services, said Flavio Serrano, a senior economist at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  Retail sales  rose 12.5 percent
in March from a year earlier, while industrial output fell 2.1
percent. The economy unexpectedly contracted in March, according
to the central bank’s economic activity index, after falling in
January and February.  Service Industries  Contax Participacoes SA (CTAX3) , Brazil’s biggest publicly traded
call-center company, plans to hire 12,000 new employees this
year to expand its business in  Latin America . More than half of
those hires will be in Brazil, the Rio de Janeiro-based company
says.  “The services sector is likely to remain strong, and due
to that we do not see the  unemployment rate  climbing in a strong
way,” Serrano said in a telephone interview before the report
was published. “In a few months, all of this monetary stimulus
is likely to provide a further boost for the Brazilian
economy.”  Serrano estimates that the so-called NAIRU, or non-
accelerating inflation rate of unemployment, is 6.5 percent.
Unemployment reached a record low of 4.7 percent in December.  Consumer prices climbed 5.05 percent in mid-May from a year
earlier, the slowest pace in 19 months. Economists forecast
inflation of 5.21 percent this year and 5.6 percent in 2013,
according to the most recent central bank survey. Brazil targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Brazil has cut borrowing costs 350 basis points, to 9
percent, since August, more than any other country in the Group
of 20 nations. Traders expect Tombini to reduce the Selic rate
to a record low of 8.5 percent next week, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate futures contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 