-- Brazil’s Batista Seeks Stamp of Approval With EBX Sale
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-05-24T14:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/brazil-s-batista-seeks-stamp-of-approval-with-ebx-sale.html
Eike Batista ,  Brazil ’s richest man,
is selling stakes in his holding company to international
investors to help bolster confidence after shares of his largest
unit  slumped  to the lowest in seven months.  Batista, who agreed to sell a $300 million stake in his EBX
Group Co. to  General Electric Co. (GE) , is looking to offer another
$500 million stake by September, he said yesterday. The deal
with GE follows the sale of a $2 billion stake in EBX to
Mubadala Development Co. last month and shares of units to EON
AG and to International Business Machines Corp. earlier this
year.  Batista, 55, is raising money to diversify into industries
from precious metals to entertainment, while investing in his
existing oil, iron-ore, coal, shipping and power-generation
companies.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , the
billionaire’s oil company, fell last week to the lowest since
October after reserve estimates missed investor expectations.  “Having a large, well known investor come in and share the
risk would give credibility to the long term outcome of these
projects,” said  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage $35 billion in
assets at Van Eck Associates in  New York . “It seems like a very
smart strategy on his part.”  GE will take a 0.8 percent stake in Centennial Asset
Brazilian Equity LLC and other EBX holding companies as part of
the deal, GE said in a statement distributed by  Business Wire 
today.  Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth fund Mubadala bought 5.63
percent of EBX last month. Batista agreed in January to sell 10
percent of his power company  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3)  to Dusseldorf-based
EON for 850 million reais ($414.5 million) and in April he sold
20 percent of technology unit SIX Automacao to Armonk,  New York- 
based IBM.  ‘Extra Stamp’  Selling EBX stakes is about making the group stronger and
“has nothing to do” with the fall in OGX’s share price,
Batista told reporters late yesterday in  Rio de Janeiro .  “We just wanted to have maybe an extra stamp,” Batista
said April 30. “We like to have the structure audited and when
somebody like Mubadala comes in, the world knows how deeply they
go into the auditing process.”  Batista’s main holdings are five publicly traded companies:
OGX, MPX, iron-ore producer MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA,
shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  and  LLX Logistica SA. (LLXL3)  The letter ‘X’
in the company names symbolizes wealth multiplication, he says.  The billionaire, who is seeking to become the world’s
richest person, first said March 26 he was in talks with
sovereign-wealth funds to sell an additional $1 billion stake in
EBX, saying on April 30 that the buyer may be an industrial
partner. Batista said May 11 he was in talks with groups from
the U.S. and  Asia  for the sale.  Ninth Richest  Batista’s net worth has surged 21 percent in 2012 to $27.3
billion, making him the world’s ninth richest person, according
to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  daily ranking. He has
increased his net worth the most this year among the top 20
richest people tracked by the list.  “By bringing brand-name investors he adds a certain
legitimacy and soundness to the investment and sends a message
to the world that his business plan inspires confidence,” said
Laurence Balter, who oversees $100 million including OGX shares
for Fox Island, Washington-based Oracle Investment Research.
“The stocks of the EBX Group of companies are under tremendous
pressure given the market volatility.”  Share Slump  OGX slumped to 10.97 reais on May 17, the lowest level
since Oct. 5. Before today the stock declined 13 percent this
month compared with state oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR) ’s
9.7 percent decline and a 5.3 percent drop by  Colombia ’s
Ecopetrol SA. OGX fell 2.8 percent to 11.19 reais at 11:10 a.m.
in Sao Paulo, while MMX lost 4.9 percent to 6.62 reais.  Analysts covering EBX’s shipbuilding and oil units reduced
earnings estimates in the past four weeks by 55 percent and 47
percent, respectively, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the biggest decrease among major Brazilian stocks after
pulp producer Suzano Papel e Celulose SA, the data show.  The son of a former Vale SA chief executive officer,
Batista became Brazil’s wealthiest man selling shares in a
series of interlinking commodity startups. The five publicly-
traded units are leaving the pre-operational stage. OGX, MPX and
MMX are expected to start generating dividends for shareholders
by 2015, he told reporters May 22.  Batista will have a sixth company listed in  Sao Paulo  when
his coal unit CCX Carvao da Colombia SA starts trading in Sao
Paulo tomorrow after being spun off from MPX. He said he will
consider floating his gold unit AUX after completing the
certification of reserves as early as September.  Bear Market  Selling an EBX stake may also protect Batista from a  bear
market  in Brazilian stocks by increasing his cash position, Auro Rozenbaum, an analyst at Banco Bradesco BBI SA, said. Brazil’s
benchmark index entered a bear market on May 17 after tumbling
21 percent from this year’s high on March 13 through that day.  “The crisis we’re seeing may lead to companies needing a
bit more financial security,” Rozenbaum said by telephone from
Sao Paulo yesterday. “I’d expect him to attract big partners to
give more comfort to investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  