-- Brazil Rate Futures Yields Increase on Jobs Report; Real Rises
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-05-24T21:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/brazil-rate-future-yields-rise-as-jobless-rate-drops-real-falls.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures rose after a report showed unemployment unexpectedly
fell in April, fueling speculation the central bank will slow
the pace of cuts in borrowing costs.  “Worker income will stay at high levels and could keep
pressure on prices of services, limiting the expected fall in
inflation,”  Newton Rosa , the chief economist at SulAmerica
Investimentos, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .  The central bank sold swap contracts at an auction to
support the real. Brazil’s currency rallied the most in seven
months yesterday and  Mexico ’s peso pared losses after policy
makers in both countries propped up their currencies as European
debt turmoil prompted a selloff in emerging-market assets.  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2014 rose 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage
point, to 8.62 percent at the close in Sao Paulo after touching
a record low 8.05 percent on May 18. The real gained 0.2 percent
to 2.0292 per dollar after earlier declining 1 percent.  The central bank auctioned 11,300 out of the 40,000
currency swap contracts it offered today, according to a
statement. The currency touched 2.1062 yesterday, the weakest
level since May 2009, before rallying 2.9 percent, the most
since October.  Policy makers are concerned with excess volatility, not any
particular  exchange rate , because the real suffers from an
“aversion to risk,” Carlos Hamilton, the Brazilian central
bank’s director of economic policy, said yesterday.  Swap Auctions  The bank’s swap auctions, aimed at bolstering the real, are
a reversal from last month’s policy of stepped-up dollar
purchases aimed at weakening the currency to help exporters.
Policy makers bought $7.2 billion in the  spot market  in April,
the most since $8.4 billion in March 2011.  “The market keeps testing the central bank, and that’s a
dangerous game because the bank has many instruments it can
use,” said  Vladimir Caramaschi , chief strategist at  Credit
Agricole (ACA)  Brasil SA, in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “The
bank has space to place more swaps. It has the whole apparatus
of measures that can be pulled out if necessary, and it’s
sitting on a mountain of reserves.”  Interest-rate futures yields rose as the national
statistics agency said today in a report that  Brazil ’s
unemployment rate fell to 6 percent last month from 6.2 percent
in March. The median estimate of 38 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for the jobless rate to hold steady.  Average Income  Workers’ average income in April rose 6.2 percent from a
year ago to 1,719.50 reais ($840) a month, the report showed.
Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said this week that
near-record low unemployment is helping sustain domestic demand.  Gross domestic product will rise 3.09 percent this year,
down from a forecast of 3.20 percent the week before, according
to a weekly central bank survey of about 100 economists at
financial institutions, released this week. The economy grew 2.7
percent last year, down from 7.5 percent in 2010.  Annual service-sector prices rose 9.10 percent from a year
earlier in April, compared with a 5.10 percent increase in
consumer prices, Brazil’s statistics agency reported May 9.  Traders are wagering that policy makers will cut the target
lending rate for a seventh straight meeting next week to provide
further support for the economy as  Europe  struggles to resolve
its debt crisis and  China ’s growth slows. Brazil has reduced the
benchmark Selic by 350 basis points to 9 percent since August,
more than any other nation in the Group of 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  