-- British Airways Pensions to Fund London Oxford Street Build
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-05-24T16:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/british-airways-pensions-to-fund-london-oxford-street-project.html
British Airways Pension Trustees Ltd. 
plans to finance the development of shops and offices on
London’s Oxford Street, the U.K.’s busiest shopping district.  The 6,100 square-meter (66,000 square-foot) development at
61-67 Oxford Street and 11-14 Soho Street will also include six
apartments, according to a  filing  to Westminster Council. The
plan was submitted to the local government body by London-based
developer Dukelease Properties Ltd.  Pension funds and insurance companies are increasing
lending for real estate, which provides greater returns than
bonds. The average margin on loans secured by prime office
property in the U.K. increased to about 3 percent from 2.3
percent last year, according to a December survey by De Montfort
University.  The airline’s pension trustees bought the Oxford Street
site for 18 million pounds in November 2009, according to a Land
Registry filing. The development would include a single 3,700
square-meter retail space, about 1,560 square meters offices and
873 square meters of residential space, according to the filing.
Dukelease projects director Paul Cook did not return calls
seeking comment yesterday and the pension trustees declined to
comment.  The building is at the eastern end of Oxford Street, where
a Crossrail train station will open in 2018. Developers
including Derwent  London  Plc and Great Portland Estates Plc are
investing in land in the area, betting that the station will
make it more attractive to customers.  “The introduction of a large single-tenant retail space
here will contribute greatly to the regeneration of this end of
Oxford Street,” according to documents submitted by broker CBRE
Group Inc. on behalf of Dukelease.  Primark Stores Ltd. has already agreed to open a store at
that end of street and “there is a clear need for further
flagship stores” there, such as the one planned by Dukelease,
CBRE said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 