-- Bryant Makes 10th All-NBA Team; Anthony and Chandler Make Third
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-24T19:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/bryant-makes-10th-all-nba-team-anthony-and-chandler-make-third.html
Kobe Bryant  of the Los Angeles Lakers
was selected to the All-National Basketball Association first
team for the 10th time, the most among active players and second
in league history behind Karl Malone.  Bryant, 33, who is fifth on the NBA’s career scoring list,
is joined on the first team by  LeBron James  of the Miami Heat,
 Kevin Durant  of the Oklahoma City Thunder, Dwight Howard of the
Orlando Magic and Chris Paul of the Los Angeles Clippers.  The New York Knicks placed forward Carmelo Anthony and
center Tyson Chandler on the third team.  Bryant is on the first team for the seventh straight
season, and ties Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Elgin Baylor, Bob Cousy,
 Michael Jordan , Bob Pettit and Jerry West at 10 for a career.
Malone was selected 11 times in voting by a panel of
sportswriters and broadcasters throughout the U.S. and Canada.  James, who won this year’s Most Valuable Player Award, was
selected to the first team for the sixth time, receiving 118 of
a possible 120 votes.  Durant earned his third first-team selection after leading
the league in scoring for the third straight year, while Howard
made it for the fifth consecutive season and Paul for the second
time.  The second team consists of guards  Tony Parker  of the San
Antonio Spurs and Russell Westbrook of the Thunder, forwards
Blake Griffin of the Clippers and Kevin Love of the Minnesota
Timberwolves, and center Andrew Bynum of the Lakers.  The third team has guards Dwyane Wade of the Heat and Rajon
Rondo of the Boston Celtics, forwards Anthony of the Knicks and
Dirk Nowitzki of the Dallas Mavericks, and Chandler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  