-- Bubble in Austerity Shows Europe Is Ignoring 1997
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-05-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/bubble-in-austerity-shows-europe-is-ignoring-1997.html
As Greece burns, European officials
fiddle and Asia braces for another global crisis, my thoughts
are on  Thailand .  This summer marks the 15th anniversary of the baht
devaluation that ignited one of history’s worst meltdowns.
Thailand’s plunge ricocheted from Indonesia to  South Korea  to
Malaysia before heading west. The pain went global with the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  plunging more than 500 points in a
single trading day,  hedge funds  blowing up and giant bailouts
becoming a norm.  Fifteen years on, the world finds itself upside down. In
1997, Asia sent contagion to the West; since 2008,  Europe  and
the U.S. have returned the favor by sending turmoil eastward.
Now, Europe is looking to deep-pocketed Asian nations for help.
It should be doing something else: learning the lessons from
Asia’s collapse and impressive revival.  Asia showed the world the danger of ill-timed austerity,
denial and slavish devotion to conventional economic policies
amid very unconventional circumstances. Why, then, is Europe
resorting to a crisis-response toolbox that Asia clearly
demonstrated doesn’t work?  Europe is still putting politics ahead of economics. In
doing so, it’s missing two things  Asians (MXAP)  long ago accepted and
internalized. One, the nature of the global financial system is
shifting faster than summits and communiques can follow. Two, we
live in a world without reliable economic engines.  Austerity Obsession  The former problem can be seen in the austerity obsession
emanating primarily from Berlin. It’s one that can be traced
back to the flawed advice that officials in  Washington  doled out
to Asia in 1997. Back then, the U.S. Treasury and the
 International Monetary Fund  demanded that Asia keep  interest
rates  high to support currencies and cut  government spending  and
debt.  Of course, even the U.S. blew off these suggestions, and
more, after the 2008 failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. --
just as Asians had 10 years earlier. Once officials in Bangkok,
Jakarta and  Seoul (KOSPI)  replaced belt tightening with more nuanced
policies, growth returned and investors rushed back to the
region. Today, it’s outperforming economies in Europe and the
U.S. by a wide margin.  The latter problem -- the unreliability of global economic
engines -- means that Europe’s need for stimulus is greater than
Asia’s was in the late 1990s. At that time, the U.S. was indeed
an “oasis of prosperity,” as then Federal Reserve Chairman
Alan Greenspan called it. Today, Europe is looking at a vastly
different global environment. And yet the region is experiencing
what can best be described as a bubble in austerity.  China’s Ambitions  The  U.S. economy  is limping along, Japan’s deflation is
deepening and  China  is slowing. Next week is expected to bring
news that China’s manufacturing shrank for a seventh month in
May. So much for China riding to Europe’s rescue with its vast
state wealth and even bigger ambitions.  Just three months ago, the chatter was about Asia’s biggest
economy becoming Europe’s sugar daddy. Europe is imploding.
China has $3.3 trillion of currency reserves. What better way to
deploy those riches, many mused, than to save the  euro zone  and
capitalism in one fell swoop? That was until Europe’s mess
boomeranged on China.  Nowhere are these worries more on display than in  Hong
Kong . The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has  slumped  14 percent from
this year’s peak on Feb. 29 as investors fret about how Europe
will affect China. Far from reassuring markets, European leaders
are clashing over how to contain their crisis. They can’t, and
Hong Kong’s tycoons are looking at a difficult second half to
2012.  Greek Futility  Each Greek bailout only highlights the futility of
political solutions to a flawed economic union. Denial has
delayed the inevitable departure of Greece and now speculators
have a much bigger target in their sights -- Spain, the 12th-
biggest economy.  That was roughly Korea’s global ranking in 1997, when its
entrapment by Asia’s crisis turned a regional problem into a
global one. Europe is forgetting that the quicker you deal with
the root of financial problems, however painful that may be, the
quicker you can recover from them. To do that, you need growth.
You also need to be bold.  Korea’s Example  Korea  came clean rapidly about the true magnitude of its
public and private indebtedness, retooled its economy and
improved competitiveness. Greece has done little heavy lifting,
be it restructuring debt, defaulting or leaving the euro. Denial
and delay are setting the euro zone back.  Seoul’s post-1997 reforms are paying big dividends 15 years
later. Today, when the nation tosses around the marketing slogan
“Dynamic Korea,” no one is laughing. Samsung Electronics Co.
is gobbling up market share and thrusting Sony Corp. toward
irrelevance. Hyundai Motor Co. has Toyota Motor Corp. looking
over its shoulder.  And Thailand, for all its political upheaval in recent
years, boasts a jobless rate of 0.7 percent. The Bank of
Thailand predicts growth of 6 percent this year.  Where will Spain be in, say, 2027? Will it be a top 14
economy, as Korea is today? Will its consumers be using euros or
pesetas? It’s anyone’s guess. Europe’s failure to heed  Asia ’s
lessons doesn’t leave me optimistic.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  eradicating polio  and
 Obama’s military strategy ; Stephen L. Carter on  Romney and
Harvard’s faculty lounge ;  Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan Chase’s odd
disclosure ; Michael Kinsley on  China’s capitalist confusion ;
Matthew Bryza on why  Azerbaijan deserves a song contest ; Andrew
Katzenstein and Scott Bowman on  Eduardo Saverin’s tax
implications .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  