-- Buffett Says Free News Unsustainable, May Add More Papers
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-24T20:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/buffett-says-free-news-unsustainable-may-add-more-papers.html
Warren Buffett , whose  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  struck a deal this month to acquire 63 newspapers,
said he may buy more publications as the industry rethinks
whether to offer free content on the Internet.  “This is an unsustainable model and certain of our papers
are already making progress in moving to something that makes
more sense,” Buffett wrote in a letter to editors and
publishers of Berkshire’s daily newspapers. “We want your best
thinking as we work out the blend of digital and print that will
attract both the audience and the revenue we need.”  Buffett is adding to Berkshire’s newspaper holdings with
the $142 million deal announced May 17 for  Media General Inc. (MEG) 
publications including the Richmond Times-Dispatch of Virginia.
The billionaire, who bought the Buffalo News in 1977 and said in
2009 that newspapers have the potential for unending losses, is
now betting that papers with a community focus can profit as
they change their models.  While circulation may slip, papers only fail when there are
dailies competing in the same town, a publication forfeits its
position as the primary source of locally important information
or the market doesn’t have a sense of identity, he said.  “We don’t face those problems,” Buffett, 81, wrote in the
letter dated yesterday and  posted  on the website of Berkshire’s
Omaha World-Herald, which is in the Nebraska town where
Buffett’s company is based. “Berkshire will probably purchase
more papers in the next few years. We will favor towns and
cities with a strong sense of community.”  Media General  Berkshire is the largest shareholder of  Washington Post Co. (WPO) 
and purchased the World-Herald last year. Buffett said the
company’s newspapers won’t “move the needle in terms of
Berkshire’s economic value” in yesterday’s letter.  In the Media General deal, Berkshire also gave the
Richmond-based company a $400 million  term loan  with an interest
rate of 10.5 percent and received warrants for about 4.6 million
Class A shares. Media General retained its television stations
and said it’s selling the Tampa, Florida, group separately.  Media General has  declined  more than 90 percent since the
end of 2003. The company fell 3.8 percent to $3.51 at 4:04 p.m.
in New York. Berkshire slipped 0.2 percent.  The newspaper industry, suffering drops in print
advertising, has recently embraced digital subscription plans.
The  New York Times (NYT)  Media Group began charging readers to access
its news stories online last year, attracting about 454,000
paying subscribers as of March. The so-called paywall is
estimated to bring in $125 million next year for Times Co.,
according to Douglas Arthur, an analyst at  Evercore Partners
Inc. (EVR)   Newspaper Paywalls  Gannett Co. (GCI) , owner of 82 daily newspapers, said this year
it would begin charging readers to access news content online,
except for flagship  USA Today .  Press+, a startup that sells online subscription
technology, is used by more than 300 publications, including
some owned by MediaNews Group Inc., Tribune Co.,  GateHouse Media
Inc. (GHSE) ,  McClatchy Co. (MNI)  and Lee Enterprises Inc. Press+, based in
New York, was founded by former Wall Street Journal publisher L. Gordon Crovitz, along with Steven Brill and  Leo Hindery  in 2010.  The World-Herald and 17 of the Media General papers
Berkshire is buying also use Press+, Crovitz said in an e-mail.  Buffett, a supporter of President  Barack Obama  and an
advocate of higher taxes on the wealthy, said the newspapers
would remain independent in their coverage of public policy.  ‘Strong Political Views’  “I have some strong political views, but Berkshire owns
the paper -- I don’t,” Buffett wrote in the letter. “And
Berkshire will always be non-political.”  The billionaire investor said that editors should focus on
making the papers “indispensable” to local communities.  “Our future depends on remaining the primary source of
information in certain subjects of great importance to our
readers,” Buffett wrote. “Technological change has caused us
to lose primacy in various key areas, including national news,
national sports, stock quotations and employment opportunities.
So be it. Our job is to reign supreme in matters of local
importance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  