-- California Expands Net Metering Program for Solar-Power Sales
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-05-24T23:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/california-expands-net-metering-program-for-solar-power-sales.html
California  regulators expanded a
program that forces utilities to buy solar electricity generated
by homeowners and businesses.  The practice, known as net metering, formerly was subject
to a cap equivalent to 5 percent of utilities’ “aggregate
customer peak demand,” according to a statement from the
California Public Utilities Commission.  Today’s ruling by the commission, reached in a 5-0 vote,
changes the way the cap is calculated and as a result doubles
the amount of eligible solar power, the commission said.  The prior net metering cap in California would have been
met after about 2.4 gigawatts of installations, and today’s
decision raises it to about 5 gigawatts, Ben Higgins,
legislative director at REC Solar Inc., said today by telephone.  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s Pacific Gas & Electric Co. estimated that,
under the prior rule, the cap would have gone into effect in its
service territory as soon as 2013, according to the statement.  PG&E and California utilities owned by  Edison International (EIX) 
and  Sempra Energy (SRE)  were critical of the proposal. The utilities
are concerned about cost shifting that may occur if customers
who don’t use net metering absorb more grid maintenance costs,
Lynsey Paulo, a PG&E spokeswoman, said.  “We are interested in these impacts on non-solar
customers,” Paulo said today by telephone. The rule “could
be” challenged in court by utilities or other organizations,
she said.  The Utility Reform Network , a consumer advocacy group, said
prior to today’s vote that the new rule would be “legally
deficient,” according to  comments  filed May 6.  Solar panel prices have  fallen  53 percent since the end of
2010, and companies such as SolarCity Corp. and Sunrun Inc.
allow customers to install panels without any upfront cost.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  