-- Canada Dollar Falls to Four-Month Low on Europe, U.S. Prospects
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-05-24T21:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/canadian-dollar-fluctuates-as-u-s-jobless-claims-little-changed.html
Canada ’s dollar slid to the weakest
level since January versus its American counterpart amid bets
 Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen and concern economic growth is
slowing in the U.S., the nation’s largest trade partner.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
bird on the C$1 coin, fell for a third day as risk appetite
cooled after three banking officials said China’s biggest banks
may fall short of loan targets amid a slowdown. Euro-area
leaders clashed yesterday over how to stem the crisis that began
in Greece.  “The market is still very unsettled by what’s going on in
Europe,” said  Steve Butler , managing director in Toronto at
Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s Scotia Capital unit. “The fundamentals in
Canada are still OK, and are certainly less worse than a lot of
other places. In spite of all of that, the U.S. dollar remains
supreme given the flight-to-quality trade.”  Canada’s currency depreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0269 per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after gaining as much as 0.3
percent earlier. It touched C$1.0296, matching yesterday’s low,
the weakest level since Jan. 9. One Canadian dollar buys 97.38
U.S. cents.  The 14-day relative-strength index for the Canadian dollar
versus the greenback fell to 28, suggesting the loonie is headed
for a reversal of recent losses. A reading below 30 signals a
currency is oversold and may be poised for a correction.  Bonds Rise  Government bonds  rose, erasing earlier losses and pushing
yields on benchmark  10-year notes  down one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.87 percent. Two-year note yields
decreased one basis point to 1.14 percent.  Canada will auction C$700 million ($681 million) of real-
return bonds on May 30, according to a statement today on a
central-bank website. The 1.5 percent inflation-linked
securities mature in December 2044.  The loonie weakened yesterday versus its U.S. counterpart
on concern Europe’s crisis would worsen even after Canada’s
 retail sales  rose more than forecast in March. They gained 0.4
percent to C$39.1 billion following a 0.2 percent drop the prior
month. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast an
increase of 0.3 percent.  Other reports in May have suggested domestic demand will
boost Canada’s economic growth, including gains in wholesale
trade and the biggest two-month job gain in three decades.  The Canadian currency was little changed over the past week
against nine developed-nation peers monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  strengthened 0.9
percent, and the yen gained 04 percent, on refuge demand amid
the European crisis. The euro fell 0.6 percent.  ‘On the Defensive’  “The bias has been for a generally weaker Canadian dollar,
as the general backdrop isn’t very constructive for the Canadian
dollar as there is no good option in Europe,”  Shaun Osborne ,
chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “We
are seeing consolidation near these levels as the market is
waiting for direction. Until then, the Canadian dollar will be
on the defensive.”  Canada’s currency has lost 4.5 percent against its U.S.
counterpart since reaching a 2012 high of 98 cents on April 27.  The greenback will probably pause in its advance against
the loonie and may undergo a “modest correction,” according to
a client note by Osborne and TD strategist  Greg Moore  citing
technical analysis. The weakness will be an opportunity to buy
the U.S. currency, which shows no signs of a longer-term change
in the upward pattern that began last month, they wrote.  China Slowdown  The loonie fell today after three officials said  China ’s
biggest banks may fall short of loan targets for the first time
in at least seven years. A decline in lending in April and May
means the banks’ total new loans for 2012 will probably be about
7 trillion  yuan  ($1.1 trillion), less than the government goal
of 8 trillion yuan to 8.5 trillion yuan, said one of the
officials, declining to be identified because the person isn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  The greenback rose against most of its major peers. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank as much as 0.6 percent before
erasing losses.  Concern about an economic slowdown in China added to
speculation on a worsening in Europe’s debt crisis. European
leaders disagreed at a summit yesterday over joint debt sales as
they called on  Greece  to stick with the budget cuts needed to
stay in the euro and offered no immediate relief for recession-
wracked  Spain .  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said today in an
interview on Italian television La7 that a majority of leaders
at the summit backed joint European bonds and that Greece won’t
leave the euro.  U.S. Economy  The loonie was little changed earlier after Commerce
Department data showed  orders  for American computers, machinery
and other capital equipment dropped in April for a second month,
pointing to a slowdown in U.S. business investment.  U.S. manufacturing grew in May at the slowest pace in three
months, according to an index based on a survey of  purchasing
managers , London-based Markit Economics said today. It fell to
53.9 from 56 in April, the report showed. A reading above 50
signals expansion.  S&P’s GSCI Index of 24  raw materials  rose as much as 1.1
percent before trimming the advance to 0.4 percent. Crude oil
for July delivery increased 1 percent to $90.80 a barrel in  New
York . Raw materials account for about half of Canada’s export
revenue, and crude is the nation’s biggest export.  To contact the reporter on this story:|
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 