-- Canadian Stocks Little Changed on Commodity Rally, China
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-05-24T21:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/canadian-stocks-pare-gains-on-concern-over-china-slowdown.html
Canadian stocks  were little changed
as commodity companies rallied and banks pared losses in the
final 40 minutes of trading, erasing a 0.6 percent decline in
the  S&P/TSX Composite Index. (SPTSX)   Equities rebounded after Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti
said Greece is likely to stay in the euro and that a majority of
the region’s leaders support issuing a joint bond to fight the
debt crisis. Gold producers posted their longest winning streak
since July.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  slumped 3.4 percent to the
lowest level since December 2003 after  Patrick Spence  resigned
as head of global sales.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and  Bank of
Montreal (BMO)  fell at least 1.8 percent.  The S&P/TSX Composite Index increased 1.27 points, or less
than 0.1 percent, to 11,566.07. It ranged between a loss of 0.8
percent and a gain of 0.5 percent.  “The market is taking a little bit of a breather,” Sadiq Adatia, chief investment officer at Sun Life Global Investments
in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. The unit of Sun Life
Financial Inc. oversees about C$4.7 billion ($4.6 billion) for
clients. “The market isn’t way ahead of itself because people
still aren’t very confident, but there are some cheap valuations
out there.”  The market had declined earlier after three bank officials
with knowledge of the matter said  China ’s biggest banks may fall
short of loan targets for the first time in at least seven years
as an economic slowdown reduces demand for credit.  China Concern  China is the world’s biggest consumer of metals and energy.
According to data provided by  Statistics Canada , it received 4.2
percent of  Canada ’s total exports in March. Canada recorded
C$16.8 billion of exports to China in 2011. Commodities
companies make up 43 percent of the S&P/TSX’s value, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s economy  may grow in 2012 at its slowest pace in 13
years, a Bloomberg News survey showed last week, as Europe’s
debt crisis curbs exports, manufacturing shrinks and demand for
new homes wanes.  Materials shares in the benchmark gauge rose a third
consecutive day. Gold rose the most in a week as central banks
increased their holdings. Central banks, the world’s biggest
holders of gold, continued to buy bullion in April as Turkey
raised its reserves by 29.7 metric tons and Ukraine, Mexico and
Kazakhstan boosted their holdings, International Monetary Fund
data show.  Gold Shares  Eldorado Gold Corp. (ELD) , a Vancouver-based mining company,
climbed 2.4 percent to C$11.96.  Kinross Gold Corp. (K) , Canada’s
fourth-largest producer of the precious metal, gained 2 percent
to C$8.65. Agnico-Eagle Mines, a gold producer that operates in
Canada, Mexico and Finland, increased 1.2 percent to C$40.67.  Banks in the S&P/TSX fell for the first time in three days
amid the news of a potential Chinese economic slowdown. Royal
Bank of Canada, the nation’s biggest lender, slipped 2.9 percent
to C$51.38. Bank of Montreal, Canada’s fourth-biggest lender by
assets, declined 1.8 percent to C$55.08.  RIM slumped 3.4 percent to C$10.98, its lowest closing
price since December 2003, after Spence resigned as head of
global sales to take a job in a different industry following 14
years at the company. The company, which three years ago made up
3.8 percent of the S&P/TSX’s value, now represents 0.4 percent.  “RIM is becoming a forgotten story now,” Adatia said.
“When news comes out it doesn’t really impact the market
because nobody’s following it much anymore. Unless it starts to
have some exceptional results or you see some takeover talk,
you’re not going to see it affect the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  