-- Canadian Pacific Strike Leaves Containers Piled at Port
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-05-24T20:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/canadian-pacific-strike-leaves-containers-piled-at-port.html
A Teamsters strike that shut down
 Canadian Pacific  Railway Ltd. freight lines in the country has
left incoming container shipments piling up at the Port of
 Montreal , where the railroad handles more than half of all
traffic.  Containers began amassing yesterday at the port,  Canada ’s
second-busiest, as Canadian Pacific halted freight operations,
said Yves Gilson, a spokesman for the Montreal Port Authority.
The site accounts for about 28 percent of Canada’s international
container traffic.  The Teamsters, Canadian Pacific’s biggest union, walked off
jobs after contract talks stalled over proposed pension-plan
cuts and work-fatigue rules. The work stoppage constricted the
flow of supplies to mines as well as deliveries of wheat and
oilseed, prompting the government to consider introducing a bill
to end the labor action.  “We currently believe that the strike will be short-lived,
owing to either a favorable resolution with the union or back-
to-work legislation,” Madhav Hari, a Toronto-based credit
analyst with Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, said in a
report.  Canadian Pacific  climbed  3 percent to C$77.25 at the close
in Toronto. The shares have gained 12 percent this year.  Chrysler Group LLC, which uses Canadian Pacific for
shipments of parts and finished vehicles, is “actively working
to mitigate any impact” from the strike on operations, Lou Ann
Gosselin, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “We encourage a quick resolution to this issue,” she
said.  The strike complicates Canadian Pacific’s operations during
its search for a new chief executive officer after investor
 William Ackman ’s months-long proxy fight to replace former CEO
 Fred Green .  Debt Ratings  If the labor action, which began yesterday, is prolonged,
it “could materially hurt CP’s profitability and lead to share
erosion to rivals in certain segments,” Hari wrote. In that
case, S&P “could consider taking a negative rating action.”  The railroad’s  long-term debt  is rated BBB-, the lowest
investment-grade score, by S&P.  Contract talks between the Teamsters, which represents more
than 4,000 of the Calgary-based railroad’s workers, and the
company started in October, and the union first threatened to
strike in April.  The Teamster Canada Rail Conference resisted what it
described as a 40 percent cut in post-retirement benefits, while
Canadian Pacific said the pensions helped push its expense
margins higher than those of its peers. The disparity was
criticized by Ackman during the proxy campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  