-- Canada First Quarter Financial Statistics Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-05-24T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/canada-first-quarter-financial-statistics-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s financial statistics report for the first quarter
released by  Statistics Canada .  Operating profits for Canadian corporations amounted to
$75.2 billion in the first quarter, virtually unchanged from the
fourth quarter of 2011. Gains in the financial sector were
largely offset by declines in the non-financial sector.  In the first quarter, 11 of 22 industries reported higher
profits.  In the non-financial sector, operating profits in the first
quarter decreased 5.9% to $54.4 billion, following the 6.4% gain
in the previous quarter. Much of this decrease came from the
manufacturing and the information and cultural industries.
Partially offsetting this decline were gains in transportation
and warehousing, construction and retail trade.  In the financial sector, operating profits increased 20.3%
to $20.7 billion, following a 9.6% gain in the fourth quarter.
Most of the first-quarter growth came from the insurance and
depository credit intermediation industries.  On a year-over-year basis, operating profits for Canadian
corporations were 4.6% higher in the first quarter than in the
same quarter of 2011. Profits increased 3.1% in the non-
financial sector and 8.7% in the financial sector.  Non-financial sector  Manufacturing profits decreased 16.2% to $13.5 billion in
the first quarter as 8 of 13 manufacturing industries reported
lower profits. Computer and electronic product manufacturers,
 motor vehicle  and parts manufacturers and air, rail and ship
products manufacturers led the decline.  Profits for computer and electronic product manufacturers
were down 96.7% to $32 million compared with the previous
quarter.  Profits for motor vehicles and parts manufacturers dropped
50.6% to $812 million, while profits for air, rail and ship
products manufacturers fell 58.9% to $269 million.  Profits for information and cultural industries declined
22.7% to $4.0 billion, with telecommunications accounting for
most of this decline. Profits for telecommunications fell 33.0%
to $2.6 billion.  Profits for the transportation and warehousing industry
were up 17.8% to $2.9 billion. Most of the growth came from
transportation, where profits rose 38.1% to $1.5 billion.  For construction, profits rose 11.8% to $3.9 billion in the
first quarter primarily on the strength of residential building
construction, particularly of condominiums.  Retailers’ profits increased 7.5% to $4.3 billion, while
wholesalers’ profits decreased 4.9% to $5.4 billion.  Profits for the oil and gas industry were up 8.2% to $3.7
billion. Mining profits declined 10.4% to $2.1 billion.  Financial sector  Profits in the financial sector amounted to $20.7 billion
in the first quarter, the highest level since the $20.9 billion
recorded in the third quarter of 2007.  Most of the first-quarter growth came from the  insurance
industry , where profits increased by $2.6 billion to $3.0
billion. The increase was led by life insurers, who experienced
lower actuarial liabilities adjustments.  Profits for depository credit intermediaries, mainly
chartered banks, rose 11.7% to $10.6 billion. This increase came
from higher net interest revenue reported by chartered banks
that have also transitioned to International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS).  Note to readers  Quarterly financial statistics are compiled using financial
information provided by enterprises that derive this data from
their financial statements. Starting on January 1, 2011,
Canadian publicly accountable enterprises are required to
replace Canadian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(CGAAP) with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
when preparing their financial statements for fiscal years
starting on or after January 1, 2011. Canadian private
enterprises are required to replace CGAAP by Accounting
Standards for Private Enterprises or IFRS. The adoption of new
accounting standards by some enterprises since the beginning of
2011 may affect comparability with prior periods.  Quarterly profit numbers referred to in this release are
seasonally adjusted and are in current dollars. The quarterly
financial data for the period covering the first quarter of 2009
to the fourth quarter of 2011 inclusive have been revised
following reconciliation to the 2009 and 2010 annual series. In
addition, seasonally adjusted data have been revised back to
2009.  Quarterly financial statistics for enterprises are based
upon a sample survey and represent the activities of all
corporations in  Canada , except those that are government
controlled or not-for-profit. An enterprise can be a single
corporation or a family of corporations under common ownership
or control, for which consolidated financial statements are
produced.  Profits referred to in this analysis are operating profits
earned from normal business activities. For non-financial
industries, operating profits exclude interest and dividend
revenue and capital gains/losses whereas, for financial
industries, these are included, along with interest paid on
deposits.  Operating profits differ from net profits, which represent
the after-tax profits earned by corporations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  