-- McDonald’s Bonds Tie Higher-Rated IBM Record: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-05-24T15:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/mcdonald-s-bonds-tie-higher-rated-ibm-record-corporate-finance.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , whose shares have
fallen 8 percent this year as sales growth decelerated, is
finding more success in the  bond market .  The world’s biggest restaurant chain issued $400 million of
1.875 percent, seven-year debt yesterday to equal the coupon
higher-rated International Business Machines Corp. paid on $600
million of similar-maturity bonds May 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The two-part sale, which also included
$500 million of 0.75 percent, three-year notes raises a measure
of the company’s debt load to the most in five years, the data
show.  Investors accepted below-average relative yields from
McDonald’s as concern mounted that  Greece  would exit the euro
and disrupt global financial markets, stoking demand for safer
securities. The  Oak Brook , Illinois-based company is seeking to
expand international operations even with world economic growth
projected to remain below 3 percent this year and next.  “It’s international, so if Greece blows up, it’s not like
McDonald’s is going to come out and say, ‘Our quarter’s shot,’”
 Andrew Feltus , who helps oversee about $11 billion of high-yield
debt at Pioneer Investment Management Inc., said in a telephone
interview from  Boston . “It’s not highly cyclical, it’s a
franchise business so margins are extremely high.”  Bond Records  McDonald’s is the most profitable of U.S. fast-food chains
having a market value of more than $10 billion, with a net
profit margin of 19.4 percent, Bloomberg data show. Its offering
yesterday boosts the company’s  ratio of debt  to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 1.35, the most
since 2007 and the highest of the fast-food group, though that
measure should fall to 1.29 as $638 million of bonds  come due 
this year.  While McDonald’s shares cost less  relative to earnings  than
competitors Yum! Brands Inc., Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. and
Starbucks Corp., its bonds have set records this year.  The restaurant owner claimed the lowest yield on 30-year
debt on Feb. 2, and yesterday matched the record coupon set by
IBM on May 8 even after the extra yield investors demand to hold
investment-grade debt instead of  government securities  increased
23 basis points to 2.25 percentage points, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Its 1.875 percent notes, which sold at 99.05 cents on the
dollar yesterday, traded at 99.15 cents at 10:26 a.m. in New
York to yield 2.01 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The three-year bonds traded at 100.2 cents to yield 0.68
percent.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 and above by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- or more at  Standard & Poor’s .  Lower Than IBM  McDonald’s  is rated  A2 by Moody’s and an equivalent A by
S&P, the sixth-highest grade. IBM is ranked two levels higher by
Moody’s and one more by S&P, Bloomberg data show.  Borrowing costs for high-grade  U.S. debt , at 3.47 percent,
are still 43 basis points lower than at the end of last year,
the data show.  “This is part of our normal course of business, and we
take advantage of favorable market conditions when possible,”
Steve Mazeika, a spokesman at McDonald’s, said in an e-mail
message.  McDonald’s sold the new debt as it plans to hire 70,000
people in  China  this year, almost doubling its workforce there,
and accelerates store openings there to compete with Yum!
Brands’s KFC and  Pizza Hut .  “It’s a high-quality credit,” Mark Pibl, head of credit
strategy at broker-dealer Cortview Capital Securities LLC, said
in a telephone interview. “People are coming out of high-
yield” amid  Europe ’s debt crisis, making McDonald’s “a safe,
stable upgrade trade,” he said.  Tighter Spreads  McDonald’s 0.75 percent notes maturing in 2015 yielded 45
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, compared
with an average 126 basis-point spread for investment-grade
issues of three-year bonds this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The seven-year notes had a spread of 88 basis
points versus a 221 basis-point average for equal-maturity
issues.  High-yield U.S. bonds have lost 1.3 percent this month,
while investment-grade corporate debt is unchanged, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  McDonald’s, which generates 68 percent of its  sales  outside
the U.S., is also continuing its decade-long plan to boost
revenue by renovating restaurants and expanding its menu to
increase visits, according to Bryan Elliott, an analyst at
Raymond James Financial Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . The
chain has gained consumers in the hours between meals by
improving its coffee and adding smoothies and snacks, he said.  ‘Distanced Themselves’  “They’ve distanced themselves markedly from the rest of
the competition,” said Elliott, who has an outperform rating on
McDonald’s, meaning the shares will rise more than  S&P 500 Index 
over the next 12-18 months.  McDonald’s will spend about $1.45 billion to remodel about
2,400 stores this year while opening 1,300 restaurants to give
it about 35,000  locations  worldwide.  The chain increased profit 4.8 percent to $1.27 billion, or
$1.23 a share, in the first quarter, its slowest growth since
December 2010. Comparable-store sales increased 7.3 percent
globally in the same period, topping analysts’ estimates.  McDonald’s will also soon be under new leadership after
naming 22-year company veteran  Don Thompson  as chief executive
officer in March. The current chief operating officer will
replace the retiring Jim Skinner, who led the company for seven
years, on July 1.  The company, which has about $11.6 billion of bonds and
term loans outstanding, is scheduled to repay 300 million euros
($378 million) of 6.25 percent notes in July and 250 million
Swiss francs ($262 million) of 3.25 percent bonds in December,
Bloomberg data show.  “MCD is far from desperate in its need to refinance, but
it does have substantial maturities this year,” Carol Levenson
of Chicago-based Gimme Credit LLC wrote in an e-mail message.
Management has probably “observed the recent spread volatility
even among high quality corporates and it’s always wise to get
the annual refinancing done sooner rather than later.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  