-- Check Point Says Anti-Cybercrime Network Attracts Clients
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   E l l i o t t   G o t k i n e
-- 2012-05-24T14:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/check-point-says-anti-cybercrime-network-attracts-clients.html
Check Point Software Technologies
Ltd. (CHKP)  was “surprised” by government and corporate interest in
its collaborative anti-cybercrime network, which has “huge
potential,” Chief Executive Officer Gil Shwed said.  Governments, financial institutions and corporations have
said they will participate in Threat Cloud, a network that will
feed real-time information on security breaches to companies and
governments, to prevent attacks from snowballing.  “We thought some governments would be interested in us
building infrastructure and were surprised to see that people
generally said you deal with it and we will be happy to
collaborate and share information and be part of that network,”
Shwed said in an interview in  Tel Aviv  yesterday. “We were also
pleasantly surprised to see financial organizations weren’t
afraid to share information.”  Threat Cloud, announced this week, “is still small in
business size but huge in potential,” Shwed said, adding that
talks with governments, financial institutions and corporations
were in the “early stages.”  “In Threat Cloud we create a service where our sensors,
that are part of every gateway in the world, will report every
attack they see and in real time push these updates and prevent
the attack from repeating itself,” Shwed said.  First-quarter adjusted earnings, announced on April 23,
were 74 cents share, beating the 72-cent median estimate of 27
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The  company  reaffirmed its
forecast for the year and predicted second-quarter revenue of as
much as $336 million compared with $300.6 million a year
earlier.  “This product doesn’t move the needle from the top line,
but shows  Check Point  has the right product strategy to benefit
from the security spending,” said  Daniel Ives , an analyst at
FBR Capital Markets & Co. in  New York .  Check Point shares fell 1.8 percent to $53.55 at 9:55 a.m.
in New York. They have gained 1.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Elliott Gotkine in London at 
 egotkine@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  