-- Chesapeake Energy Says June Annual Meeting Should Proceed
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-05-24T20:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/chesapeake-energy-s-annual-meeting-should-proceed-company-says.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  investors
already have a wealth of data about Chief Executive Officer
 Aubrey McClendon ’s financial dealings, so the natural-gas
producer’s annual meeting shouldn’t be delayed, the company said
in a court filing.  Chesapeake has disclosed in proxy filings details of
McClendon’s compensation and loans he arranged to cover his
costs in a company-backed well-ownership program, lawyers for
the energy firm contend in the federal-court  filing  in  Oklahoma 
City. Disgruntled investors can’t show they’ll be “irreparably
harmed” if the June 8 meeting goes forward, the attorneys said.  “The suggestion that shareholders have not been provided
sufficient information cannot withstand even superficial
scrutiny,” the lawyers wrote.  Chesapeake, the second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer,
sent a letter to shareholders yesterday disputing criticism of
McClendon’s compensation package and financial dealings by New
York City Comptroller  John Liu . The city’s pension fund owns
1.9 million Chesapeake shares.  U.S. District Judge Vicki Miles-LaGrange is slated to hear
investors’ request to put Chesapeake’s June 8 shareholders
meeting on hold while they investigate whether McClendon’s loans
created conflicting interests.  Board Elections  Two members of Chesapeake’s nine-person board are seeking
re-election at the annual meeting. Shareholders must have owned
their stock on April 10 to vote.  The Oklahoma City-based  company’s shares  dropped 50 percent
in the past year. The effect of falling gas prices has been
compounded by media reports that McClendon was using personal
stakes in the company’s wells to obtain loans. Chesapeake today
rose 49 cents, or 3.25 percent, to $15.58 in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading.  As of Dec. 31, McClendon, 52, had $846 million in loans
covering his well-ownership costs. The program, which allowed
him to own as much as 2.5 percent of almost every well the
company drilled, required the CEO to pay development costs
proportionate to his stake.  McClendon’s compensation package also has drawn criticism
from investors. The natural-gas companies cut McClendon’s pay
15 percent last year to $17.86 million in response to concerns
that it was excessive.  Stock, Bonus  The reduced compensation included $13.6 million in stock
awards, a $1.95 million bonus and $975,000 in salary, according
to an April filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Earlier this month, Chesapeake officials cut directors’ pay
by 20 percent and halted their personal use of corporate
airplanes amid criticism of the company’s management.  Shareholders are seeking to gather more data on the loans,
made by EIG Global Energy Partners LLC, Union Bank and TCW Asset
Management, to see if they create any conflicts of interest,
according to court filings.  Chesapeake’s lawyers said in their court filings that
McClendon’s well loans aren’t on the agenda for shareholders’
consideration June 8 and the CEO’s dealings in connection with
the financings already has been disclosed in proxy filings.  “No one attempted to hide the fact that Mr. McClendon
used” his interests in the wells “as collateral in financing
transactions,” the lawyers said.  Since the loans aren’t relevant, delaying the meeting while
investors gather information about them “would serve no useful
purpose,” the lawyers added.  The case is Deborah G. Mallow IRA SEP Investment Plan v.
McClendon, 12-cv-436, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Oklahoma ( Oklahoma City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  