-- Chesapeake Conflict of Interest Seen in Thunder Playoffs
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-05-25T22:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/chesapeake-conflict-of-interest-seen-in-thunder-playoffs.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , whose top
executive invested in the Oklahoma City Thunder, almost doubled
its spending on the professional basketball team during the past
four years buying tickets, luxury box seats and naming rights
for the home arena.  Chesapeake directors are under pressure to investigate
conflicts between Aubrey McClendon’s duties as chief executive
officer and his personal finances, which include a 19.2 percent
stake in the Thunder. New York City pension funds, which own 1.9
million Chesapeake shares, complained this month about the
company’s spending on the National Basketball Association squad.  While the $8 million expenditure so far this year on the
team is less than half of what Chesapeake spends drilling for
oil and gas in an average day, it underscores how the company’s
board hasn’t always erred on the side of caution while
overseeing McClendon’s potential conflicts of interest. On May
27, the Thunder will add to Chesapeake’s bill when it enters a
third round of playoff games against the  San Antonio Spurs .  “I’m a basketball fan too and believe that everyone has
the right to invest in their local team,” New York City
Comptroller John C. Liu, who oversees the pension fund
investments, said in an e-mailed statement this week. “But as
long-term Chesapeake shareowners, we have a real problem with a
board that allows the use of the corporate treasury to support
personal investments.”  ‘Oversight Failures’  As Chesapeake traded at about half its  year-ago price , Liu
chided Chesapeake directors in a May 17 letter for “costly
oversight failures,” including the company’s “multi-million
dollar deals” with the sports team partly owned by McClendon.  Chesapeake’s May 23 statement responding to Liu’s criticism
did not mention the Oklahoma City Thunder.  Chesapeake expects to benefit from the team’s success on
the court, Jim Gipson, a company spokesman, said yesterday in an
e-mail.  “The success of any professional sports team significantly
increases the value of an arena naming agreement,” he said.
“Our naming agreement and sponsorship are valuable
investments.”  The shares rose 1.5 percent to $15.81 at the close in  New
York .  Chesapeake’s spending this year is up 72 percent from the
$4.7 million it spent after joining four other corporate
sponsors during the Thunder’s inaugural 2008-2009 season, a
Bloomberg review of federal filings show.  Playoff Tickets  The company also has committed to buy an undisclosed number
of tickets for all playoff home games; the Thunder are making a
second-consecutive appearance in the Western Conference Finals
in a best-of-seven series with the San Antonio Spurs. Last
year’s playoff spending added $1.4 million, triple the year-
earlier playoff spending of $400,000, according to filings.  “Our season tickets are used for our business partners,
potential partners, customers and by our employees,” Gipson
said. “We do not resell tickets.”  McClendon has been a fixture at Thunder home games during
the playoffs, sitting a couple of rows back from courtside in
Chesapeake Energy Arena. As television cameras followed the
action up and down the court during the Thunder’s May 21
elimination of the  Los Angeles Lakers , McClendon was seen decked
out in a blue t-shirt with the team’s “Let’s Go” logo pulled
over his office attire.  Chesapeake employees are a big part of the scenery at every
game, said Royce Young, an Oklahoma City-based NBA reporter for
CBSSports.com who also writes Daily Thunder, a blog for ESPN.  Chesapeake Fans  “Chesapeake buys an ungodly amount of tickets to the
games, and people go,” Young said.  Dan Mahoney, a spokesman for the Oklahoma City Thunder,
didn’t return e-mail and telephone messages.  In a 2011 filing, Chesapeake said McClendon’s ownership was
not “a determining factor” in the company’s sponsorship of the
team. Chesapeake’s support of the Thunder and other local sports
teams is part of its commitment to the community, it said in the
filing.  “In addition, we make game tickets available to our
employees as a way to thank them for their hard work and
dedication,” the company said.  In a filing last month, the board’s audit committee wrote
that it had reviewed and approved the company’s financial
support of the Thunder “in accordance with its policy on
transactions with related persons.”  Cash Shortfall  Chesapeake is facing a cash-flow shortfall that Fitch
Ratings estimates will reach $10 billion this year. Chesapeake
has taken a new $4 billion loan and plans to sell as much as $14
billion in assets this year to help close the cash-flow gap. The
company’s stock plunged 30 percent this year as gas prices hit a
10-year low and the company and federal agencies said they would
review McClendon’s personal loans with companies also doing
business with Chesapeake.  The company’s 6.775 percent notes due in March 2019 fell
0.25 cent on the dollar to 93 cents on the dollar at 9:42 a.m.
today in New York, according to Trace prices for trades of at
least $1 million. At that price, the notes yield about 696 basis
points more than a benchmark government security of similar
maturity, up from the 562 basis-point spread at which the $1.3
billion of bonds were issued in February this year, according to
Bloomberg bond trader prices.  The board said last month it will strip McClendon of his
chairmanship and call an early end to a program that allowed the
CEO to own 2.5 percent of almost every well the company drills.
The well stakes served as collateral for McClendon’s loans.  Team Owners  There are other examples of business executives who own
part of the home-town team providing financial support through
their companies, including buying stadium naming rights. The
 Detroit Lions  signed a $50 million, 25-year naming rights deal
with  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in 2002 when William Clay Ford Sr., the
team’s majority owner, was still a director. William Clay Ford Jr., the manufacturer’s executive chairman, also is a minority
owner in the team.  McClendon was part of a group of Oklahoma City businessmen
who bought the team in 2006 from Starbucks Corp. Chairman  Howard Schultz  when the club was known as the  Seattle SuperSonics . The
Thunder investor group’s chairman is Clayton I. Bennett.  Tom Ward , who co-founded Chesapeake with McClendon and now
is CEO of  SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD) , also has a 19.2 percent stake
in the team. SandRidge spends about $3.5 million a year on the
basketball team, according to federal filings.  ‘Starting Five’  Other members of the Thunder’s “Starting Five”
sponsorship group were  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) , MidFirst Bank, and
The Oklahoma Publishing Co.  The oil and gas industry is one of the most active users of
sports games to entertain customers, said Tony Knopp, chief
executive officer of Calabasas, California-based Spotlight
Ticket Management. The company counts  Plains Exploration &
Production Co. (PXP)  and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  among its clients, and
doesn’t do business with Chesapeake, he said.  “Sports tickets are a significant way of oil and gas
companies driving business,” said Knopp, whose firm advises
executives on how and when to use their game tickets for
entertaining clients.  Playoff games between the Thunder and the Los Angeles
Lakers were the four most-watched programs on U.S. cable
television the week of May 14, according to Nielsen Co. data.
The fourth game of the series reached 7.4 million households.  Naming Rights  In 2011, Chesapeake broke from its history of successive
one-year sponsorship agreements with the Thunder and signed a
pair of 12-year advertising deals that each pay the team about
$3 million a year, plus an additional commitment to buy $3
million worth of game tickets for the regular season that ended
last month.  One of the 12-year contracts concerned naming rights to the
arena. Under the terms of that arrangement, McClendon will
donate to Oklahoma schools the portion he personally receives
from the arena naming-rights deal for at least the next two
years, according to an April 20 federal filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  