-- Chevy Chase Gets Second Chance With Networks’ DVR Fridays
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-05-24T15:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/chevy-chase-gets-second-chance-with-networks-dvr-fridays.html
Major TV networks are moving little-
watched shows with big DVR audiences to Fridays, testing whether
the technology can help programs like “Community” make it on a
night with few viewers.  “Community,” the half-hour NBC comedy with Joel McHale
and  Chevy Chase , shifts to Fridays in September. With the show
ranked 141st in viewers and digital-video recorders boosting the
audience by half, NBC has little to lose. Fox is moving  Kiefer Sutherland ’s drama “Touch,” and ABC is switching  Tim Allen ’s
“Last Man Standing.”  Fridays offer networks a chance to turn the commercial-
skipping DVR to their advantage. They get paid for ads that are
viewed on DVRs, even partly, within three days of the airdate. A
day later they get nothing. The idea with the schedule shift is
that viewers, especially the younger ones marketers like, catch
up on shows on the weekend, providing a ratings and revenue
boost to shows that air on Friday.  “The ratings may not look impressive Saturday morning, but
those numbers just grow and grow and grow over the next several
days,”  Kevin Reilly , entertainment president at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox network, said in an interview last week in New York.  Studies indicate people replaying shows watch a majority of
commercials, compared with live broadcasts when some viewers get
a snack or flip channels, said Brian Hughes, senior vice
president of audience analysis at the advertising company
MagnaGlobal, part of Interpublic Group of Cos. And most, 88
percent, watch within the 72-hour cutoff, he said.  “The networks are constantly trying to make Friday more
visible, not just a dumping ground for shows in decline,”
Hughes said in an interview.  Weekend Catchup  The Fox drama “Touch,” featuring Sutherland as a father
of an emotionally challenged son, is one such example. Through
late April, the show averaged 7.2 million viewers a night,
according to Nielsen data. When DVR viewing within seven days is
counted, that figure jumped 42 percent to 10.3 million.  With spare time on the weekend, viewers have more
opportunity to catch up on shows sooner, according to Greg
DePalma, vice president of audience Insights for  TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , the
company that pioneered the DVR.  “Shows like ‘Friday Night Lights,’ which had a cult
following, get picked up over the weekend,” DePalma said.  “Community,” the quirky comedy about community college
students, attracted 2.75 million viewers a night this season
through April, according to Nielsen data. Including DVR users,
the figure jumped to 4.12 million.  The ratings for “Community” are already “as low as you
can go,”  Robert Greenblatt , NBC’s entertainment chairman, said
in an interview last week in New York. The postmodern comedy’s
devoted audience will follow it wherever it moves in the
schedule, he said, and will be sure to “complain once it’s off
the air.”  Case of the Mondays  Networks once saw DVRs as a threat. The devices let viewers
record shows, watch them later and skip the commercials that
give broadcasters most of their income. The pay-TV service  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  underscored the threat this month, angering the
networks when it began offering Auto Hop, which automatically
skips ads in shows subscribers have recorded.  Moving low-rated shows to Fridays, while not solving those
problems, offers some advantages. It frees up more-valuable
midweek slots for new programs or series with larger real-time
audiences. Shows with large DVR viewership may have a higher
chance of survival on Fridays, the night of the week with the
second smallest prime-time audience after Saturday.  “Monday night shows suffer for the same reason that Friday
night shows gain from DVR viewing,” DePalma said. “Anything
you’ve recorded that’s older than three days won’t be
captured.”  ‘Fringe’ Element  Of the shows with the highest DVR increases in percentage
terms, two air on Fridays.  The audience for “Fringe” on Fox almost doubles to 4.26
million viewers when playback over seven days is added, making
it No. 1 in DVR use, according to Nielsen data. The show,
heading into its last season, is ranked 132nd overall. The
audience for 85th ranked “Grimm” on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC jumps
about 67 percent to 6.47 million, Nielsen data show.  “These are shows with smaller but extremely loyal viewers,
and that’s attractive,” Hughes said.  At least two new programs will make their debuts on Fridays
when the new television season starts in September:  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s
drama “Made in Jersey” and the comedy “Malibu Country” on
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC.  DVR Popularity  DVR use is climbing. In September 2007, 19 percent of U.S.
homes with TVs had a recorder, according to a May 9 report from
Horizon Media Inc., a New York-based advertising company. By
April 2012, 44 percent of the 114.7 million U.S. TV homes had
the device. DVR use represents 8 percent of all TV watching
today, compared with 1.6 percent in 2007, Horizon said.  The median age of people watching shows on DVRs is lower
than the average audience watching shows live, providing more of
the people marketers target, Horizon said. The median age of a
DVR user is 42 compared with 48 for Fox, 52 for NBC, 53 for ABC
and 57 for CBS, Horizon said.  Based on viewing data, advertisers worry more about new
distractions, such as mobile phones and iPads.  “That’s the bigger threat,” Hughes said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  