-- Chilean Peso Little Changed as Stock Retreat Offsets Copper Gain
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-05-24T17:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/chilean-peso-little-changed-as-stock-retreat-offsets-copper-gain.html
Chile ’s peso was little changed as a
rebound in the price of copper, the country’s main export, was
countered by declines in U.S. stocks on concern that  China ’s
biggest banks may fall short of loan targets.  The currency traded to 508.88 per  U.S. dollar  at 12:57 p.m.
Santiago time from yesterday’s closing price of 508.45. It
earlier gained 0.7 percent and fell as much as 0.2 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell for the first time
this week after three officials said China’s biggest banks may
fall short of loan targets for the first time in at least seven
years as an economic slowdown crimps demand for credit. Copper,
which accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports, gained
after a report from London-based metals analyst  Max Layton 
showed a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. index of Chinese copper usage
at the second-highest level on record in April.  “We have a pessimistic view of global markets,” said
Cristian Donoso, a trader at Banchile Inversiones in Santiago.
“We see dollar declines as a buying opportunity. Today the
dollar fell to 505.5 pesos which was a clear support level. The
market believed it and started to buy dollars.”  The buying of dollars offset sales from mining companies
that typically use Thursdays to buy pesos for use in meeting
payroll and other local obligations, Donoso said. The peso may
weaken as far as 525, he said.  The Chilean peso has depreciated less in the last month
than Brazil’s real and Mexico’s peso and strategists including
 Mike Moran  at Standard Chartered Plc and  Diego Donadio  at BNP
Paribas SA have forecast it may weaken against peers.  Europe Risk  Copper for July delivery rose 1 percent to $3.429 a pound
on the Comex in  New York  after closing yesterday below $3.4 a
pound for the first time this year.  Chile’s central bank sees the European sovereign debt
crisis as a significant risk to the Andean nation, bank
President Rodrigo Vergara told a business forum today when asked
whether Europe or inflation were a bigger concern to policy
makers.  The forwards market for unidades de fomento, Chile’s
inflation-linked accounting unit, today priced in 0.2 percent
monthly inflation in May and an annual rate of 3.5 percent,
slowing to 2.75 percent inflation at the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  