-- China May Begin Buying Argentinian Corn Soon: Minister
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-24T13:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/china-may-begin-buying-argentinian-corn-soon-minister.html
China , the world’s biggest grain
consumer, may begin buying corn from Argentina soon, Norberto
Yauhar, the South American nation’s agriculture minister, said.  “We believe issues with genetically modified seeds can be
resolved in the next 60 days” because Premier  Wen Jiabao  will
visit Argentina next month, accompanied by his agriculture
minister and the director of the State Administration of Grain,
Yauhar said at a press conference in Beijing today.  Argentina and Laos were  listed  as approved suppliers, the
Beijing-based quality watchdog General Administration of Quality
Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine said on April 28. The
agreement, first announced by Argentina in February, generated
speculation that Argentina, tied with Ukraine as the second-
biggest exporter, may displace some purchases from the U.S., the
top shipper.  Corn for July delivery rose 0.2 percent to $6.0475 a bushel
in  Chicago  at 5:13 p.m. in Beijing.  Corn imports by China may advance 35 percent as a rapid
increase in meat demand boosts consumption of grains to feed
chickens and pigs, the  United Nations  said May 3. Corn
consumption jumped 53 percent in the past decade as demand grew
41 percent for poultry and 27 percent for pork, according to the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Argentina’s Ministry of Agriculture has requirements to
meet on genetically modified corn, Chairman  Li Qiang  of
researcher Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. said May 3.  Exporters such as large grain companies need to demonstrate
to China that their genetically modified corn is sourced from
approved varieties, Martin Fraguio, head of Argentina’s corn
growers’ association Maizar, said by phone on May 5. “This, in
practice, shouldn’t be difficult,” he said.  Shipments of corn to China may be limited as Argentina’s
output has been reduced by drought this year, Yauhar said today.  Argentina’s corn harvest may shrink to about 21.5 million
metric tons in the year that ends Sept. 30 from 23.6 million
tons a year earlier, while exports will slide to 14 million tons
from 16 million tons, the USDA said April 10.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  