-- China Manufacturing Contraction May Speed Stimulus
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-24T07:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/china-manufacturing-may-shrink-for-seventh-month.html
China’s manufacturing may shrink for
a seventh month in May, a private survey showed, reinforcing the
need for stimulus as Premier  Wen Jiabao  accelerates a shift in
policy to support growth.  The 48.7 preliminary reading for a purchasing managers’
index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today
compares with a final 49.3 for April. If confirmed on June 1, it
would mark the longest run of below-50 readings since the global
financial crisis.  Today’s report, along with worse-than-forecast data from
 Japan  and  Taiwan  yesterday, add to concerns that growth in  Asia 
is in danger as the world grapples with the threat of  Greece ’s
exit from the euro. China will increase the intensity of policy
“fine-tuning” amid rising “downside risks” facing the
economy, the State Council, or Cabinet, said yesterday.  “This calls for more aggressive policy easing, as
inflation continues to slow,”  Qu Hongbin , Hong Kong-based chief
China economist for HSBC, said in a statement. “Beijing policy
makers have been and will step up easing efforts to stabilize
growth, as indicated by a slew of measures to boost liquidity,
public housing and infrastructure investment and consumption.”  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks reversed
gains, declining 0.5 percent as of 3:01 p.m. local time. The
 yuan  weakened against the dollar for a second day, dropping 0.1
percent to 6.3403.  The manufacturing index stayed below 50 for eight months
through March 2009. The new orders, export orders and employment
components of the gauge all showed a contraction for May, while
output expanded, according to the preliminary readings.  ‘Proactively’ Expand Demand  The government “must proactively take policies and
measures to expand demand and to create a favorable policy
environment for stable and relatively fast economic growth,”
according to a statement on its website yesterday summarizing a
meeting of the State Council.  Leaders pledged to maintain a “prudent” monetary policy
while also increasing the degree of “fine-tuning” as the
Economy faces “increasing pressure of a downward movement,”
according to the statement.  The comments build on Wen’s remarks published May 20 that
policy makers should “put stabilizing growth in a more
important position.”  The State Council meeting “confirms stimulus will come,”
Zhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-based chief China economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said in a note yesterday. Implementation of
policies will happen in June and will “secure growth” in the
second half of the year, he said.  Deteriorating Growth  China’s economic growth will probably deteriorate this
quarter and the odds are increasing that  interest rates  will be
cut for the first time in more than three years, an Asian
Development Bank senior economist said. Expansion may
“approach” 7.5 percent in the three months through June from a
year earlier, following the first quarter’s 8.1 percent, Zhuang Jian said in an interview in Beijing yesterday.  China’s banks can borrow from one another at the lowest
interest rates in 13 months as the economic slowdown stifles
demand for loans, leaving lenders flush with cash. The three-
month Shanghai interbank offered rate has fallen every day since
March 27, sliding in that time to 4.33 percent yesterday from
4.95 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today’s preliminary reading, called the Flash PMI, is based
on 85 percent to 90 percent of responses to a survey of more
than 420 companies, according to HSBC.  New Zealand Surplus  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  New Zealand ’s
government today projected a narrower  budget surplus  in 2015,
the first in seven years, and indicated that a disorderly exit
by Greece from the euro heightens the risk of achieving that
goal.  Vietnam ’s inflation in May eased to less than 10 percent
for the first time in 19 months on declining bank lending and
moderating food prices, a report today showed. The  Bank of Japan 
said in a monthly report that it’s “increasingly evident that
Japan’s economy is shifting toward a pick-up phase, although its
economic activity has remained more or less flat.”  In  Europe , a report today may show German business
confidence fell for the first time in seven months. The Ifo
institute’s business climate index, based on a survey of 7,000
executives, will drop to 109.4 from 109.9 in April, according to
the median forecast of 37 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The U.S. Commerce Department may say today orders for
durable goods rose 0.2 percent in April from the prior month,
while a Labor Department report may say initial jobless claims
for the week ended May 19 were unchanged at 370,000, Bloomberg
surveys showed.  Infrastructure Projects  Chinese authorities “should speed up the implementation of
key infrastructure projects” if growth keeps weakening in the
second quarter, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said in a semi-annual report on the global economy
released this week.  The OECD said Europe’s debt crisis risks spiraling and
seriously damaging the world economy. The group pared its 2012
 China  growth forecast to 8.2 percent from 8.5 percent, joining
financial institutions including Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. that cut estimates this month.  “As long as the easing measures filter through, China will
secure a soft landing in the coming quarters,” HSBC’s Qu said.  China’s  economy  will expand 7.9 percent this quarter,
according to a Bloomberg News survey May 14-15. That would be
the sixth quarterly deceleration after an 8.1 percent pace in
the first three months of this year.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. swung to a loss in the first
quarter and may be unprofitable in the first half because of
weak prices and higher fuel costs, the nation’s biggest producer
of the metal said in a Shanghai Stock Exchange filing last month.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Sunil Jagtiani in  New Delhi 
and Shamim Adam in  Singapore . Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  