-- China Banks May Miss Loan Target for 2012, Officials Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-25T08:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/china-banks-may-miss-loan-target-for-2012-officials-say.html
China’s biggest banks may fall short
of loan targets for the first time in at least seven years as an
economic slowdown crimps demand for credit, three bank officials
with knowledge of the matter said.  A decline in lending in April and May means it’s likely the
banks’ total  new loans  for 2012 will be about 7 trillion  yuan 
($1.1 trillion), less than an estimated government goal of 8
trillion yuan to 8.5 trillion yuan, said one of the officials,
declining to be identified because the person isn’t authorized
to speak publicly. Banks are relying on small and mid-sized
companies for loan growth after demand from the biggest state-
owned borrowers dropped, the people said.  The drying up of loan demand attests to the severity of
China’s slowdown and may add pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao  to
cut interest rates and expand stimulus measures. The economy may
grow in 2012 at its slowest pace in 13 years, a Bloomberg News
survey showed last week, as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs exports,
manufacturing shrinks and demand for new homes wanes.  “The authorities are on the case of slowing growth and we
expect them to continue to roll out fine-tuning stimulus
measures,”  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist for ING Financial
Markets in  Singapore , said in a note to clients today. The one-
year lending rate in China may be cut by 25 basis points, he
forecast.  Stocks Slide  Asian stocks fell, with the benchmark MSCI Asia Pacific
Index declining 0.2 percent as of 5:19 p.m. in  Tokyo , heading
for a fourth weekly loss.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. , the country’s largest bank, slipped 0.2 percent to close
at HK$4.62 in  Hong Kong  after dropping as much as 1.9 percent.
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  declined 1.6 percent to HK$3.11.  Press officials at the three largest lenders -- ICBC,  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  -- declined to
comment. Press officials at Agricultural Bank  weren’t
immediately available.  New bank loans  last month dropped 33 percent from March to
681.8 billion yuan, missing the 780 billion yuan median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A third of April’s new
credit was also so-called discounted bills, or short-term loans
often used by banks to pad the total figure.  Getting Worse  This month may be worse. The four biggest banks -- which
account for about 40 percent of lending -- had advanced only 34
billion yuan as of May 20,  Liu Yuhui , a director at the
government-backed  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , said in an
interview this week, without saying where he got the data. The
lenders may rush to boost credit in the last few days, mainly
through short-term notes, he said.  China  hasn’t officially announced the quotas set for each
bank or the total loan target for 2012.  Still, as recently as last month, policy makers were
indicating the target was 7.5 trillion yuan to 8 trillion yuan.
Lenders in China’s eastern province of Zhejiang, for instance,
will aim to increase new loans to about 670 billion yuan,
accounting for 8.4 to 8.9 percent of the nation’s total
increase, the government-backed Securities Times newspaper
reported on April 26, citing Liu Renwu, head of the PBOC’s
Hangzhou branch.  Failing to meet the annual loan target would mark a turning
point for Chinese banks, which have reached or exceeded the
central bank’s goal every year that such quotas have been in
place since at least 2006.  The banks are also grappling with the fallout from a record
credit expansion in 2009 and 2010. That loan growth, a key part
of the government’s economic stimulus measures,  fueled
inflation and triggered concern that local governments’
financing vehicles will be unable to repay debts.  Understated Bad Loans  Bad loans  at Chinese banks rose by 10.3 billion yuan in the
first three months to 438.2 billion yuan as of March 31, the
nation’s banking regulator said this month.  Fitch Ratings  warned
last week that China’s non-performing debt and special-mention
loans were “vastly understated” and banks’ cushions are
“thinning as deposit growth slows and forbearance reduced loan
repayments.”  The lending slowdown this year reflects the faltering
economy. China’s  gross domestic product expansion , which dropped
to 8.1 percent in the first quarter, may further slip to 7.9
percent in the three months ending in June, according to a
Bloomberg News survey last week. That would be the sixth
quarterly deceleration.  April’s weak trade and  industrial-output data  prompted the
central bank on May 12 to announce the third cut in the amount
that banks must set aside as reserves since November.  ‘Fine Tuning’  The Chinese government this week signaled a bigger focus on
bolstering growth, saying in a statement it will intensify
“fine-tuning” of policies “for stable and relatively fast
economic growth.”  The nation will start a series of “key infrastructure
projects that are vital to the overall economy and can
facilitate growth,” and speed up construction of existing
railway, environmental protection and rural projects, the
government said on May 23, summarizing a meeting of the State
Council, or Cabinet.  Still, Morgan Stanley this week joined banks including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in lowering its estimate for China’s
economic growth for the year. The annual GDP forecast was cut to
8.5 percent, from an earlier 9 percent goal, to “reflect the
worse-than-expected slowdown” in the first four months, chief
economist Helen Qiao said in a note to clients on May 21.  Interest Rates  “Since the policy constraints on credit easing have
remained in place for too long, loan demand has been weakening
further,” Hong Kong-based Qiao wrote that day. “The low volume
of bank loans now reflects weak demand and lack of policy
support from government-driven projects.”  Policy makers in China may cut  interest rates  twice this
year and further reduce the  reserve requirements  for banks, Qiao
forecast.  The waning demand for loans is also reflected in the three-
month  Shanghai interbank offered rate , or the rate at which
Chinese banks say they can borrow from one another. The so-
called Shibor has fallen every day since March 27, sliding 68
basis points to 4.27 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The outlook for  China’s economy  may be even worse if Greece
exits the euro and local policy makers don’t increase the
stimulus, China Investment Capital Corp., the nation’s biggest
investment bank, forecast this week. Economic expansion may drop
to 6.4 percent in 2012 in that case, Beijing-based Peng Wensheng, CICC’s chief economist, said in a May 23 report.  That would be the worst performance for China since 1990,
the year after the Tiananmen Square protests.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  