-- China’s Top Fund Manager Sees Stock Gains on Growth Policy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-25T08:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/china-s-top-fund-manager-sees-stock-gains-on-pro-growth-policy.html
China ’s best-performing fund manager
says the government’s pro-growth policies and pledge to compel
state-owned companies to increase dividend yields will boost the
nation’s  stocks  in the second half of the year.  Yinhua Fund Management Co.’s Wang Qi said he has turned
optimistic on yuan-denominated shares, on prospects for further
monetary policy easing after April data signaled a deepening
slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy. His outlook is a
change from mid-2011, when he said in the fund’s semi-annual
report that stocks would trade “range-bound,” and comes as the
government said this month during economic talks with the U.S.
that state-owned firms will lift  dividend  payout ratios.  “The stock market is at the bottom now and may rise with
monetary policies being eased,” Wang said in an e-mailed
interview from Beijing yesterday, declining to give a target for
equities. “If mandatory rules on dividend payments can be
implemented, we’ll be able to see shares with high dividend
yields and that’ll make stock investment attractive.”  Wang’s  Yinhua CSI Equal Weight 90 Xinli Fund (150031) , with assets
of 3.82 billion  yuan  ($603 million) in the first quarter,
returned 33 percent this year, ranking first among 693 mutual
funds in its peer group, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.7 percent to 2,333.55
at the close and is down 5.2 percent from this year’s high set
on March 2 on concern a slowdown in the Chinese economy is
accelerating. A report from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics yesterday showed a preliminary reading of 48.7 for
their purchasing managers’ index, indicating China’s
manufacturing may shrink for a seventh month in May.  Positive Outlook  Stocks in the  Shanghai gauge , which has risen 6.1 percent
this year, are valued at 10.1 times estimated earnings, compared
with the five-year average multiple of 18, according to weekly
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  MSCI Emerging-Markets Index (MXEF) 
trades at 9.7 times profit.  “We have turned optimistic about the A-share market this
year because valuations are already at relatively low levels and
the government has the ability to deliver steady economic growth
and maintain economic stability,” Wang said.  In his fund’s semi-annual report last year, Wang said
China’s stocks would be “range-bound” in the second half of
2011 because of liquidity and earnings concerns. The Shanghai
Composite dropped 20 percent during that period. Wang’s new
outlook is shared by Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities and Guotai
Junan Securities Co., which have said China’s longest bear
market since 2005 is set to end as government efforts to bolster
the economy spur a rally in stocks.  Growth Policies  Wang’s top  holdings  in the first three months of this year
included rare earth producers Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-
Earth Hi-Tech Co. and Inner Mongolian Baotou Steel Union Co.,
according to the fund’s quarterly report. Rare-Earth Hi-Tech has
jumped 131 percent this year. Steel Union rose 50 percent.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the government will focus more on
bolstering economic growth, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported May 20, without saying what measures may be introduced.
China will start a series of “key infrastructure projects that
are vital to the overall economy and can facilitate growth” and
speed up construction of railway, environmental protection and
rural projects, the government said on its website on May 23.  The central bank has lowered banks’ reserve-requirement
ratios three times since November to spur lending to small
companies. An interest-rate cut can’t be ruled out if data for
May indicate a further slowdown in growth, the China Securities
Journal reported May 23, citing unidentified people. Borrowing
costs haven’t been reduced since 2008.  Below Targets  Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank
of America Corp. and UBS AG pared their 2012 economic growth
forecasts for China this month after April data showed
industrial output climbed at the slowest pace since 2009 and new
yuan loans missed estimates. Inflation rose 3.4 percent in
April, the third month that it was below the government’s annual
target of 4 percent.  “Pro-growth policies will stand until inflation comes
back,” said Wang, who worked as an investment manager for  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  before joining Yinhua Fund in 2010. He
holds a doctorate from the post-graduate department of the
People’s Bank of China.  China’s full-year growth may be below 7 percent unless the
government introduces more stimulus measures, the Wall Street
Journal reported on its Chinese-language website on May 23,
citing  Chen Dongqi , the deputy head of the National Development
and Reform Commission’s macroeconomic research institute. The
government is targeting 7.5 percent growth this year.  Boosting Dividends  Deutsche Bank AG is recommending investors hold fewer
Chinese shares than are represented in benchmark indexes because
the economy is undergoing a “messy transition.” While the
nation’s equities appear cheap and may rebound in the “short
term,” industrial overcapacity may hurt corporate earnings,
John-Paul Smith, Deutsche Bank’s London-based emerging-market
strategist, wrote in a May 15 report.  Higher dividend yields are “crucial” in boosting interest
in the stock market, Wang said.  Guo Shuqing , who was named as
chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission in
October, is keen on reversing the Shanghai Composite’s combined
33 percent loss in 2010 and 2011 by taking measures to bolster
stock demand and compelling companies to pay more dividends.  The nation’s corporate dividends are the lowest among the
world’s 10 largest markets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The dividend yield on the Shanghai Composite, or cash
companies pay to shareholders as a percentage of stock prices,
is 2.04 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with an average of 3.10 percent for companies on the
MSCI Emerging-Markets Index.  ‘New Run-Up’  The government agreed in a May 4 joint statement with the
U.S. to “steadily” boost the dividend payout ratio of state-
owned companies. The CSRC will also “guide” publicly traded
companies in setting sustainable and transparent dividend
payment policies, the  Securities Times  reported on March 23,
citing Guo.  Gauges of telecommunications, utility, technology and
healthcare stocks in the CSI 300 have the lowest dividend yields
of 10 industry groups, with returns of not more than 2.6
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The four indexes are the  worst performing  in the CSI 300 in
2012 with gains of not more than 3 percent, compared with 11
percent for the broader index. Banks pay the most dividends with
the 14 lenders in the Shanghai Composite offering an average
yield of 4.21 percent, the data show.  “The implementation of these policies is crucial to the
development of the stock market in the medium and long term,”
said Wang. “It’ll lead to a new run-up for stocks.”  --Zhang Shidong. Editor: Allen Wan, Darren Boey.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  