-- China Projects Skirt Price Floor, Avoid Carbon Supply Cuts
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-05-25T16:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/china-projects-skirt-around-price-floor-avoid-co2-supply-cuts.html
Chinese carbon-cutting projects are
skirting around the nation’s unofficial floor price for carbon
credits, according to the former head of an emissions trading
lobby group. That would indicate the country is less likely to
show supply restraint, said a  Stanford University  researcher.  Some Chinese projects get paid at a floor price of about 8
euros ($10.06) a metric ton and then send fees back to the buyer
for consultancy services in a second transaction, according to
 Henry Derwent , former president of the International Emissions
Trading Association, the Geneva-based lobby group. EU factories,
power stations and airlines can use the offsets to cut the cost
of complying with the bloc’s greenhouse-gas laws by 48 percent.  China, the biggest exporter of carbon credits since the
Clean Development Mechanism started supply in 2005, installed
the floor by refusing to approve projects that proposed in their
applications to sell offsets at lower prices, said Laurent Segalen, the London-based managing director of ECMF, a
Luxembourg fund. Certified Emission Reductions, or CERs, for
December in the secondary market broke though the limit in
September last year and reached a record 3.27 euros on April 4.  “The government has a difficult time enforcing price
controls when they conflict with basic economic incentives,”
said Richard Morse, a researcher specializing in carbon and coal
markets at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International
Studies at Stanford University. The nation may be struggling to
make rules stick, as it does in its coal market, Morse said.  ‘Notoriously Hard’  “Beijing’s price caps in coal are notoriously hard to
enforce once you get out into the provinces where oversight is
thinner and there is money to be made by transacting at market-
based prices instead of government-dictated prices,” Morse
said.  Wang Shu, an official in the department of  climate change 
in the National Development and Reform Commission in Beijing,
declined to comment or say whether China may lower its floor
price, when contacted by phone. Yang Zongjie, another official
in that department, said China was approving emission credits
for supply out to 2019 and also declined to comment on the
floor. The NDRC acts as China’s regulator for United Nations
carbon credits.  China’s consumption of coal was 1.7 billion tons of oil
equivalent in 2010, 2.5 times the level in 1997, when the world
agreed the  Kyoto Protocol , according to statistics from  BP Plc. (BP/) 
The nation is the world’s biggest emitter of  greenhouse gases 
blamed by scientists for climate change.  ‘Sensitive Topics’  Camco International Ltd. (CAO)  on May 22 reported a loss for 2011
of 29.3 million euros after writing down the value of its CERs,
including those in China. The credits have plunged 71 percent in
the past year on an oversupply in  Europe . The contract for
December rose 1 cent today to 3.61 euros a ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London as of 4:50 p.m.  Scott McGregor , Camco’s chief executive officer, declined
to comment on Chinese  government regulation  in a phone interview
from London on May 22. “These are very sensitive topics,” he
said.  McGregor declined to say how Camco renegotiated the
company’s contracts to buy carbon credits from China to ones
linked to market prices instead of based on fixed prices above
those currently in the secondary market.  Camco’s renegotiation indicates sellers including those in
 China  are willing to accept lower prices, said Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  ‘Tangible Evidence’  It’s unclear how widespread the consultancy services
payments are to China carbon-reduction projects, Derwent said
May 4.  The world’s most populous nation is establishing pilot
carbon markets as its seeks more ambitious greenhouse-gas
reductions from developed nations including the U.S. That may
not slow its exports anytime soon, Stanford’s Morse said.  “I would be very skeptical of the idea that China is going
to be holding back supply for its own non-existent market,”
Morse said. “I think it’s wishful thinking.”  China may become a buyer of offsets sometime after 2015,
Derwent said.  “They are grappling with the transition to the buy side
from the sell side,” he said.  ‘Subliminal Discussion’  China may never officially repeal its floor because it was
always a “subliminal discussion,” said ECMF’s Segalen, who was
a commodities managing director at Nomura Holdings Inc. ECMF
invests in energy assets and carbon contracts.  “What was never written down, doesn’t have to be
repealed,” he said.  Supply from China may help drive emission credit prices to
record lows because the EU has set a maximum usage through 2020
of about 1.8 billion tons, Segalen said. About 3.9 billion tons
of credits may compete to fill that quota, including offsets
from China, Russia and Ukraine, according to data from the UN
Environment Program’s Risoe Centre on Energy, Climate &
 Sustainable Development  in Roskilde,  Denmark  and Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in  London .  “When you have a market that has a wall, it tends to go
near zero,” Segalen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  