-- China Says U.S. Renewable Subsidies Violate Trade Rules
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-05-24T18:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/china-says-u-s-renewable-subsidies-violate-trade-rules.html
U.S. renewable-energy subsidies in
five states violate free-trade rules, China’s Ministry of
Commerce said today.  The ministry identified programs supporting renewable
power, including wind and solar, in  California ,  New Jersey ,
 Massachusetts ,  Ohio  and California that violate World Trade
Organization policies and trade treaties, according to a
preliminary  finding  on the agency’s website today.  The finding comes a week after the U.S. Commerce Department
announced tariffs as high as 250 percent on Chinese solar cells
and is the latest salvo in a renewable-energy trade dispute,
according to  Theodore O’Neill , an analyst at Wunderlich
Securities Inc. in New York.  “It’s a long, slow escalation of trade and currency wars
as we race to the bottom,” O’Neill said today in an interview.  Chinese solar companies have criticized Commerce’s
preliminary decision May 18 that they improperly benefit from
government subsidies and sell solar cells below cost. At least
four U.S. solar manufacturers filed for bankruptcy in the past
year.  Fourteen Chinese solar panel companies formed a group to
develop a response to the U.S. tariffs, the  China  Chamber of
Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery of Electronic
Products said today.  China initiated the investigation into U.S. subsidies in
November, a month after seven U.S. solar manufacturers filed a
complaint with the U.S. International Trade Commission and
Commerce.  ‘Economic Warfare’  All countries offer subsidies to certain industries, Hari Chandra Polavarapu, an analyst at Auriga USA LLC in New York,
said in a telephone interview.  “The absurdity is the scope and depth of the subsidies in
China,” Polavarapu said. “You’re competing against a sovereign
when you’re talking about the Chinese solar industry. It’s
economic warfare.”  The Commerce Department said a final determination on the
solar tariffs would be made in early October. U.S. customs
agents will collect a deposit or bond on solar cells made in
China in the 90 days before last week’s decision. Duties range
from 31 percent to 250 percent for different manufacturers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  