-- China’s Stocks Drop for Second Day as PMI Signals Contraction
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-24T07:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/china-stock-futures-rise-on-government-pledges-to-favor-growth.html
China’s stocks  fell for a second day
as a private survey showing the nation’s manufacturing may
shrink for a seventh month overshadowed a government pledge to
boost infrastructure spending.  PetroChina Co. (601857)  and Aluminum Corp. of  China  Ltd. paced
losses by commodity producers after the preliminary reading by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to 48.7 from the
previous month. Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co. slid to a
four-month low after the 21st Century Business Herald said the
company was given notice of a regulatory probe, contradicting a
company denial.  China Railway Erju Co. (600528)  jumped 4.1 percent after
the government said it will speed up building railways.  “The slowing economy and  Europe ’s debt crisis are still
the issues that needs to be overcome,” Dai Ming, a  fund manager 
at Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management & Consulting Co., said
by phone today.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 12.46 points, or 0.5
percent, to 2,350.97 at the close, reversing an earlier 0.4
percent gain. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  sank 0.8 percent to 2,595.26.
The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 0.1 percent in  New York 
yesterday.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai composite was at
15.11 today, near the lowest in a week. About 8.5 billion shares
changed hands in the gauge yesterday, 5.5 percent lower than the
daily average this year.  Flash PMI  The Shanghai index has fallen 4.5 percent from this year’s
high on March 2 on concern the slowdown in the world’s second-
largest economy is deepening. Stocks in the gauge are valued at
10.1 times estimated earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9
times on Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The 48.7 reading for the purchasing managers’ index
released by HSBC and Markit Economics today compares with a
final 49.3 for April. If confirmed on June 1, it would mark the
longest run of below-50 readings since the financial crisis.  PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil company, fell 0.5
percent to 9.51 yuan. Chalco, the listed unit of nation’s
biggest maker of the lightweight metal, slipped 0.4 percent to
6.78 yuan.  Huludao Zinc Industry Co. (000751) , China’s second-largest
zinc producer, lost 2.2 percent to 3.58 yuan.  Concerns over Europe also weighed on commodity producers
and shipping lines. European leaders clashed over joint debt
sales as they called on  Greece  to stick with the budget cuts
needed to stay in the euro. Germany has “huge difficulties”
with France’s call for joint borrowing by euro governments,
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters in Brussels early today
after six hours of talks.  Trade Concern  China Shipping Container Lines Co. (601866) , the country’s second-
largest carrier of sea-cargo boxes, fell 1.7 percent to 2.92
yuan. China Cosco Holdings Co., the world’s largest operator of
dry-bulk ships, slipped 1 percent to 4.92  yuan .  Europe is China’s biggest export market, accounting for
about 18 percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according
to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Shanghai Pharma, China’s second-largest drug distributor,
lost 0.7 percent to 10.67 yuan after plunging by the 10 percent
daily limit yesterday.  A written notice will be given once the investigation, by
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and the China Securities Regulatory
Commission, is almost complete, the 21st Century Business Herald
reported today, citing an unidentified high-level executive at
Shanghai Pharma. The drug seller said late yesterday it hadn’t
received any notice from either regulatory body, in response to
a report by the same newspaper that it was being probed.  Industrial Companies  Lu Di, an official with Shanghai Pharma’s board office,
declined to comment on today’s report when reached by telephone.
The company has nothing to add to the statement issued last
night, Lu said.  A measure of industrial stocks in the CSI 300 added 0.2
percent today, the second-biggest gain among the 10 industry
groups. China Railway Erju surged 4.1 percent to 6.67 yuan.
 China Railway Construction Corp. (601186) , builder of more than half the
nation’s rail links since 1949, advanced 1.1 percent to 4.53
yuan.  The nation “must intensify precautionary adjustment and
fine-tuning of policies according to changes in conditions,”
the government said on its website yesterday, summarizing a
meeting of the State Council, or Cabinet.  China will start a series of “key infrastructure projects
that are vital to the overall economy and can facilitate
growth” and speed up construction of existing railway,
environmental protection and rural projects, it said.  The statement builds on Premier Wen Jiabao’s comments
published May 20 showing a bigger focus on bolstering growth,
which spurred speculation the government will step up efforts to
combat a slowdown after April trade and industrial output were
below forecasts. Authorities this month cut banks’ required
 reserves  for the third time since November.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost, Ravil Shirodkar  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  