-- Christie Deflects Revenue Shortfall Criticism With Attack
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-05-24T15:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/christie-turns-to-name-calling-on-n-j-revenue-report-shortfall.html
As New Jersey’s nonpartisan budget
analyst testified before Assembly lawmakers about a $1.3 billion
revenue shortfall, Republican Governor  Chris Christie  offered
his own analysis of the speaker.  “Why would anyone with a functioning brain believe this
guy?” Christie said yesterday, referring to  David Rosen , who
reported that the governor’s budget overestimates revenue
collections through June 2013.  He’s “a joke,” a “handmaiden” for Democrats who control
the Senate and the Assembly, Christie said. “The Dr. Kevorkian
of the numbers.”  The comparison between Rosen, whose work in the Office of
Legislative Services is overseen by a bipartisan commission, and
a physician who assisted suicides in the 1990s was the latest in
a litany of insults from the governor. His targets say that when
the facts don’t favor him, Christie resorts to calling critics
“jerk,” “idiot,” “numbnuts” and the like.  “This is yet another example of the governor’s
reprehensible use of name-calling whenever things don’t break
his way,” said Assembly Majority Leader Louis Greenwald.  Rosen, 65, declined to comment on the governor’s remarks.
The budget and finance chief, who isn’t answerable to Christie,
has a doctorate in political science from  Rutgers University  and
has worked on state spending plans since 1991.  YouTube Moment  Christie’s criticism was memorialized on video and
distributed by his office hours later. Aides have posted
comments about other detractors on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, the
video-sharing website. The governor’s personal channel, which
has helped make him a national political figure, has attracted
more than 4.8 million views.  Christie, 49, has called union leaders “political thugs.”
A Navy veteran who argued with him at a town-hall meeting was an
“idiot.” Last year, he urged reporters to “take the bat out”
on a 76-year-old senator for collecting both a public pension
and a paycheck as a legislator while knocking others for similar
practices.  This time, Christie was in “full-fledged panic mode,
lashing out at anyone who dares question him and present facts
that show his so-called New Jersey Comeback is a cruel myth,”
Greenwald, a Democrat from  Cherry Hill , said in a statement.  ‘Jersey Comeback’  Christie has traveled the state to promote his “Jersey
Comeback,” a turnaround he has said will let the state raise
spending while cutting income taxes by 10 percent over three
years. The $32.1 billion budget for fiscal 2013 that he proposed
in February hinges on a 7.3 percent revenue gain, the most since
before the recession that began in December 2007.  Revenue may trail Christie’s targets by $668 million in the
year ending June 30 and by $635 million in the next year, Rosen
told lawmakers yesterday.  The shortfall over the two year-period is more than twice
the $537 million that Rosen projected in March.  New Jersey 
revenue is increasing at a pace that is “a good deal more
modest than had been anticipated” in the budget, Rosen said.  Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff told lawmakers the two-
year shortfall will be $676 million, about half of what Rosen
estimated. Christie’s tax cut won’t be abandoned because of the
lower collections, Sidamon-Eristoff said.  California Revenue  Christie’s smaller revenue echoes the situation in
 California , where Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, had to cut
deeper into his fiscal 2013 spending plan as  tax revenue  came up
short, swelling a projected deficit to almost $16 billion. Brown
is seeking to temporarily raise sales and income taxes while
cutting state payrolls and services to the needy.  Moody’s Investors Service warned that New Jersey’s missed
revenue targets are a “credit negative” after Sidamon-Eristoff
said last week that April receipts from income and corporate
taxes were $230 million less than projected.  Standard & Poor’s 
said in February that Christie’s budget is “structurally
unbalanced” because it’s built on “optimistic” revenue
assumptions.  “The governor may not like the budget projections, but
that’s not Dr. Rosen’s fault,” Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver,
a Democrat from  East Orange , said in a statement. “The governor
has apparently lost control of himself. It is not acceptable for
the governor of the state of New Jersey to act this way.”  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for Christie, said the comments
by Oliver and Greenwald were “silliness.”  Day Two  Rosen is presenting his revenue outlook today to the Senate
Budget Committee, followed by Sidamon-Eristoff. Senator  Paul Sarlo , chairman of the panel, opened the hearing with empathy
for Rosen. Neither Democrats nor Republicans in the Legislature
agree with the substance of Christie’s attack, Sarlo said.  “Your experience and credibility stand for itself,” Sarlo
said to Rosen, who didn’t speak about the incident.  Christie didn’t directly address the lack of revenue in a
speech to business leaders in Trenton yesterday. He said
Sidamon-Eristoff would give the “measured, professional
testimony he’s given for every year since I’ve been governor.”  “By the way, he’s been right,” Christie said. “And when
he’s wrong, you know how he’s been wrong? He’s underestimated
revenues. Each year we’ve had more money than we thought we were
going to have when I’ve been governor.”  Residents are due some tax relief, the governor said.  “If taxes do not get cut this year, it is the
responsibility of one set of people, and that’s the legislative
Democrats,” he said.  Patrick Murray , director of the Monmouth Polling Institute
at  Monmouth University  in  West Long Branch , said the attack on
Rosen may make even fellow Republicans “a little
uncomfortable.”  “Everything is kind of crashing down on his ability to
push this  tax cut  through, which was going to be his hallmark
going into the 2013 election campaign,” Murray said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  