-- Christie Advances Sports-Betting Plan in Face of Federal Ban
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-05-24T21:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/christie-advances-sports-betting-plan-in-face-of-federal-ban.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie
said he’ll move ahead with plans to legalize sports betting at
casinos and racetracks by November even as he faces a possible
legal challenge from the federal government.  Christie, 49, a first-term Republican, told reporters today
in  Atlantic City  that his administration will propose
regulations next week authorizing sports-book wagering in
Atlantic City and at horse tracks.  Allowing casinos to take bets on professional and college
sports, as they do in  Las Vegas , would provide Atlantic City
with a new option to lure customers, Christie said. The city’s
gambling houses have suffered as increased competition from
neighboring  Pennsylvania  saps its base.  “It will be another exciting way to add to the experience
here in Atlantic City, and I know this is something people have
been waiting for for a long time,” Christie said today on the
Atlantic City boardwalk. “We’ll be ready to go, I hope, this
fall with a whole new phase of gaming.”  The federal government has outlawed the expansion of sports
wagering under a 1992 moratorium that restricted it to  Nevada ,
Delaware, Montana and Oregon. Christie signed a bill in January
allowing the state to move ahead with the plan.  “We intend to go forward and allow sports gambling to
happen,” Christie said. “If someone wants to stop us, then
they’ll have to take action to try and stop us.”  In November, New Jersey voters passed a ballot measure
supporting sports betting at casinos and tracks, 64 percent to
36 percent. Professional leagues such as the  National Basketball
Association  have traditionally opposed legalizing sports
wagering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  