-- Segui Says Clemens Trainer Kept Needles to Get Life Back
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-24T22:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/clemens-prosecutors-call-segui-to-back-mcnamee-drug-testimony.html
Roger Clemens ’s former trainer
disclosed as early as 2001 that he saved the “darts” he used
to inject ballplayers, ex- Major League Baseball  player David Segui testified.  Prosecutors called Segui to the witness stand today to
bolster trainer  Brian McNamee ’s testimony about drug use by
Clemens, who is on trial for perjury in federal court in
Washington. McNamee has testified that he injected Clemens with
steroids and kept the needle in a beer can.  Segui, who met McNamee while the two worked for the  Toronto
Blue Jays , testified that the trainer told him he saved the so-
called darts at the behest of his wife. McNamee didn’t say the
darts had been used on Clemens or identify any players by name,
according to Segui.  “He said he had kept the darts to get his life back,”
Segui said.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  permitted the government
to question Segui in front of the jury to rebut a defense
suggestion that McNamee was motivated to start lying about
Clemens in 2007 after he was contacted by investigators probing
the use of steroids in Major League Baseball.  Congressional Probe  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to a House panel
investigating the drug issue. He faces as long as 21 months in
prison if convicted. Clemens denies having used performance-
enhancing drugs.  Segui, who spent about an hour on the stand, talked about
training with McNamee on the Blue Jays and how the two remained
friends after Segui left the team. He said the dart conversation
occurred on the telephone in 2001 while McNamee was the
assistant strength coach for the Yankees.  “He was frustrated and stressed out,” Segui said. “He
was having problems with his wife.”  Segui, who signed with the  Baltimore Orioles  in 1987 and
played for six other teams during his Major League career, said
the problems had to do with the amount of time McNamee was
spending with Clemens.  ‘Keeping Evidence’  “He said she had raised the idea of keeping evidence,”
Segui said.  Segui said he never played on the same team as Clemens. He
said the two never socialized and he doesn’t recall ever having
a conversation with Clemens.  One of the jurors, who submitted a question to Walton,
asked Segui to describe “exactly” what McNamee said his
problems were with his wife in the 2001 conversation.  Segui said it had to do with McNamee’s relationship with
Clemens. That he was always “coming and going,” being away for
long periods of time and “lack of compensation.”  Clemens’s lawyer, Michael Attanasio, then asked Segui to
explain the compensation issue. McNamee earlier testified that
Clemens paid him about $5,000 a month.  “Sometimes he got paid and sometimes he didn’t,” Segui
said.  The government’s evidence includes a needle and cotton with
Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for anabolic steroids,
prosecutors said. That material came from McNamee, who said he
saved needles, gauze and vials from one of the injections in
2001. He told jurors he kept some of the items in a Miller Lite
beer can that he took from the recycling bin in Clemens’s
apartment.  McNamee’s Testimony  McNamee has testified that he gave the ballplayer
injections of steroids and HGH during the 1998, 2000 and 2001
baseball seasons while both men worked for the  Blue Jays  and the
Yankees.  The jury today heard from three other witnesses. Two
testified about the chemical and scientific analysis done on the
medical waste and other materials provided to the government by
McNamee. Both said steroids were found on some of the material.
One said the tests didn’t turn up evidence of vitamin B12 or the
anesthetic lidocaine.  Clemens testified to Congress that McNamee injected him
with B12 and lidocaine.  Prosecutors, who ended the day with testimony from a DNA
expert, told Walton that they have about three more witnesses
and may finish their case tomorrow.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story: Tom Schoenberg in
 Washington  at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Hytha
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  