-- Clemens Judge Allows U.S. to Call Segui to Back McNamee
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-24T15:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/clemens-judge-allows-u-s-to-call-witnesses-backing-mcnamee.html
Prosecutors in the perjury trial of
ex-New York Yankees pitcher  Roger Clemens  can call witnesses to
give testimony that the U.S. says will back drug accusations by
Clemens’s former trainer,  Brian McNamee , a judge decided.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton , ruling from the bench
today in  Washington , agreed with the government’s contention
that the defense had suggested McNamee was motivated to lie when
contacted by investigators as part of a probe into the use of
steroids in Major League Baseball. The witnesses may be able to
rebut the defense’s argument.  The defense has claimed that McNamee started implicating
Clemens in 2007 because he thought he faced prosecution and
wanted to use allegations against Clemens as a bargaining chip,
the U.S. said. Prosecutors say the two witnesses, including
former ballplayer David Segui, can show that McNamee began
telling people no later than 2004 that Clemens used drugs
including human growth hormone.  “The thrust of the examination in this trial on cross-
examination was that the motive to fabricate came when Mr.
McNamee was under investigation by federal authorities,” Walton
said today. “That was the most prominent position the defense
took for a motive to fabricate.”  Denies Drug Use  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to a House panel
investigating the use of steroids in baseball. He faces as long
as 21 months in prison if convicted. Clemens has denied having
used performance-enhancing drugs.  The witnesses the government wants to put on the stand are
Anthony Corso and Segui, a former  Major League Baseball  player.
The defense said in a filing that Corso is a former client of
McNamee.  McNamee told Corso at some point from 2002 to 2004 that
Clemens used human growth hormone “regularly to recover from
vigorous workouts,” according to a court filing by the
government. In 2005, McNamee told Corso that he had saved some
of the needles he had used to inject Clemens, the prosecutors
said in the filing.  Beer Can Evidence  The government’s evidence includes a needle and cotton with
Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for anabolic steroids,
prosecutors said. That material came from McNamee, who said he
saved needles, gauze and vials from one of the injections in
2001. He told jurors he kept some of the items in a Miller Lite
beer can that he took from the recycling bin in Clemens’s
apartment.  In 2001, McNamee told Segui that he had saved “darts”
from players he had injected “in order to placate his wife,”
according to the filing.  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, argued the testimony
shouldn’t be allowed because the defense alleges McNamee had
motive to fabricate evidence against Clemens as far back as 2001
when he was fired as assistant strength coach from the Yankees.  The government didn’t say when the witnesses would be
called. Yesterday, prosecutors told Walton that Segui, who
played for the  Baltimore Orioles  and six other teams during a
15-year major league career, didn’t want to testify.  “Tell him, if he’s under subpoena he better be here,”
Walton said yesterday. “If he’s not here he better be on the
run because the marshals will be looking for him.”  Today, prosecutors called to the stand a chemist with the
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation who examined the medical waste
McNamee turned over to investigators.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story: Tom Schoenberg in
Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Hytha
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  