-- Clinton Hits ‘Black Helicopters’ Crowd to Push Sea Treaty
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/clinton-hits-black-helicopters-crowd-to-push-sea-treaty.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
took on conservative forces that twice have blocked ratification
of the United Nations  Law of the Sea treaty , calling it crucial
to U.S. economic and strategic interests in the Pacific and
elsewhere.  The top American diplomat said some of the arguments
against the treaty “cannot even be taken with a straight
face.” These, she said, include claims that the U.S. would have
to pay a “UN tax,” that it would give the UN power over the
U.S. Navy and that it would erode U.S. sovereignty.  “Honestly, I don’t know where these people make these
things up,” Clinton told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
yesterday. She chided critics who object to the U.S. joining any
UN treaty saying, “Of course, that means the black helicopters
are on their way,” a reference to conspiracy theories about a
world government.  Republican critics of the treaty bristled. “I hope you
weren’t scoffing at us,” Idaho Senator Jim Risch told Clinton.
“There’s some good stuff in here, but if we give up one
scintilla of sovereignty that this country has fought for, bled
for, have given up our treasure and the best that America has, I
can’t vote for it,” Risch said.  The Law of the Sea treaty sets out rules for the commercial
use and environmental management of the world’s marine resources
and sets boundaries for different countries laying claim to
assets under the sea floor, including oil, gas and the rare
earth minerals used to make mobile phones and flat-screen TVs.  Security Argument  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, Army General Martin Dempsey, joined
Clinton. While Clinton stressed the economic case for ratifying
the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, the two men said
becoming party to the treaty is vital to national security.  “This convention is absolutely essential to strengthening
our position in the world,” Panetta said.  The officials appeared before a committee that was largely
friendly, with a few notable exceptions. Senator  Jim DeMint , the
South Carolina Republican who has led opposition to the treaty,
warned that “we could put ourselves at a disadvantage” by
ratifying.  After Clinton said opposition to the treaty was “based in
ideology and mythology, not in facts, evidence, or the
consequences of our continuing failure to accede to the
treaty,” Senator  Mike Lee  objected.  “My concerns are rooted in something more than mythology,
rooted in something more than an editorial page,” the Utah
Republican said.  ‘The Most Absurd Argument’  He and DeMint cited articles and subsections of the treaty
as they questioned the impact it would have on U.S. sovereignty
and on control of the Navy.  Clinton dismissed those questions by saying, “None of us
would be sitting here if there were even a chance that you could
make the most absurd argument that could possibly lead to that
conclusion.”  Senator  James Inhofe , an Oklahoma Republican, questioned
the requirement that the U.S. pay royalties to the International
Seabed Authority, which allocates mining concessions in areas of
the seabed beyond any nation’s control.  At that point, Senator  John Kerry , the Massachusetts
Democrat who chairs the Senate panel, jumped in to say that U.S.
business supports ratification because it cannot establish
claims to seabed mines beyond the 200-mile territorial limit if
the U.S. isn’t part of the convention. No bilateral treaty can
cover these areas of the seabed, Kerry said.  Navigation Rights  “You’re here protecting companies from paying a royalty
that they want to pay,” Kerry told Inhofe. “They’d rather have
93 percent of something” than get nothing.  Dempsey argued that the treaty protects navigation rights
and that ratifying it would help the U.S. challenge countries
intent on imposing their interpretations of customary
international law.  Clashing claims over the oil-rich South  China  Sea between
China and its smaller neighbors have brought that issue to the
fore recently. The Arctic is another area of potential tension,
and the U.S. Coast Guard also has welcomed ratification of the
treaty.  “The Law of the Sea Convention is a huge building block
for not only the establishment of U.S. interests in the Arctic,
but it provides a framework through which the Coast Guard can
meet its responsibilities,” James Loy, who is with the Cohen
Group, a Washington-based consulting firm, said in a phone
interview. Loy was deputy secretary of the Department of
Homeland Security from 2003 to 2005 and commandant of the Coast
Guard from 1998 to 2002.  Seat at the Table  Joining the 160 countries that already are party to the 30-
year-old treaty would give the U.S. a seat at the table as
decisions are made about how the Law of the Sea is interpreted,
Panetta said. It would secure global access for military and
commercial ships, aircraft and undersea fiber-optic cables.  Kerry framed the issue as an energy security concern.
Ratifying the treaty would allow the U.S. to reap gains in the
Arctic as waters warm, allowing for more exploration of what the
Department of  Homeland Security  and the  U.S. Geological Survey 
have estimated is  at least $1 trillion  in Arctic  oil and gas ,
manganese, copper, nickel, cobalt and coal.  Russia  is about to send its fifth mission to the region
this summer, said Kerry. He added that “the Chinese are
currently laying claims that may, in fact, impinge on U.S.
interests and claims.”  Panetta dismissed claims that the treaty would limit the
ability of U.S. spy agencies to collect intelligence, saying
“nothing could be further from the truth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  