-- Clive Capital Hedge Fund Rebounds on Energy Price Bet
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-06-08T07:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/clive-capital-hedge-fund-rebounds-on-falling-energy-prices-bet.html
(Corrects year of loss in 11th paragraph in story
published May 25.)  Chris Levett ’s Clive Capital LLP
gained as much as $230 million in May after betting oil, power
and coal prices would fall as oil tumbled as much as 12 percent,
two people with knowledge of the fund said.  The $3.3 billion hedge fund rose about 7 percent in the
first three weeks of the month, erasing its loss for the year,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
company’s performance is confidential. Clive’s Class B shares
had declined 4.8 percent in the first four months of 2012,
according to a report to clients obtained by Bloomberg News.  Brent crude , the benchmark for more than half of the
world’s oil, dropped 11 percent in the month through yesterday,
the biggest decline since May 2010, and 10 percent in the first
three weeks, as slowing economic growth in China and Europe’s
escalating debt crisis cut demand, while concern that  Iran  will
disrupt shipments from the  Middle East  eased. U.K. month-ahead
gas fell 12 percent, European 2013 coal slipped 7.1 percent and
German next-year power lost 3.2 percent this month.  “Given our softer economic outlook, we are very happy to
continue to run our negative-bias energy positions in oil, coal
and European gas and power,” Clive said in the report, which
was sent to investors this month. The fund added to bets that
oil will decline and ended wagers that U.S. natural gas will
drop, according to the report.  U.S. gas for next-month delivery has climbed 37 percent
since reaching a 10-year low of $1.902 per million British
thermal units on April 19. It traded today at $2.536.  Elizabeth Holstein, who oversees  investor relations  at
London-based Clive, declined to comment on the returns.  ‘Good’ Supply  Oil will fall because of “good” supply from the U.S.,
 Saudi Arabia , Russia and Iraq, while demand around the world
appears “weak,” according to Clive’s letter. Global oil supply
increased by 0.6 million barrels a day to a record 91 million in
April, the  International Energy Agency  said in its most recent
monthly oil market report on May 11.  Oil rebounded yesterday from a seven-month low as talks to
ensure  Iran’s nuclear program  is peaceful stalled. Brent crude
rose 0.3 percent to $106.85 a barrel at 5:23 p.m. London time.  Crude won’t fall much further, because the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries will cut production if it
approaches $100 per barrel, according to Carsten Fritsch, an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  Iran Premium  “The nuclear talks yesterday didn’t produce any meaningful
results,” he said in a telephone interview today. “That will
add risk premium.”  Commodity  hedge funds , which dropped 3.6 percent last year,
climbed 1.6 percent in the first four months of 2012, according
to the Newedge Commodity Trading Index. Clive fell 10 percent in
2011, its first losing year since Levett, 42, started the firm
in 2007. He was formerly a trader at Moore Capital Management
LLC, the $15 billion hedge fund founded by Louis Moore Bacon.  Hedge funds focused on commodities have been closing as the
firms fail to make money for clients and lawmakers in the U.S.
impose stricter regulations on energy traders.  Fortress Investment Group LLC said this month it would
liquidate a $500 million commodities fund after it lost almost
13 percent in the past four months. Billionaire trader  John Arnold  told investors on May 2 he would shut his Centaurus
Energy Fund, while BlueGold Capital Management, a $1 billion
fund in  London , decided in April to close after tumbling 34
percent in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  