-- CME-ICE ‘Systemic,’ Chipotle Probe, Facebook: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-24T13:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/cme-ice-systemic-chipotle-probe-facebook-suit-compliance.html
Derivatives clearinghouses owned by
 CME Group Inc. (CME)  and Intercontinental Exchange Inc. have been
designated systemically important by U.S. regulators, moving
them closer to heightened supervision under the Dodd-Frank Act.  ICE Clear Credit, the world’s largest clearinghouse for
credit-default swaps, and CME Inc., a unit of the biggest
futures exchange, got designations from the Financial Stability
Oversight Council, a panel of regulators created by the 2010
regulatory law. The moves were confirmed by  Kelly Loeffler , a
spokeswoman for Atlanta-based Intercontinental Exchange, and
 Michael Shore , a spokesman for Chicago-based CME Group.  The designations were approved this week by FSOC as part of
an initial set of so-called financial market utilities that
require increased oversight by regulators including the Federal
Reserve. The designations, subject to appeal, may be completed
“as early as this summer,” according to Anthony Coley, a U.S.
Treasury Department spokesman.  Dodd-Frank, U.S. lawmakers’ response to the 2008 credit
crisis, requires most swaps to be guaranteed by clearinghouses
that stand between buyers and sellers to reduce risk in the
financial system. The systemic designation will be the FSOC’s
first delineation of which companies aside from banks would
threaten the broader economy if they collapse.  The Clearing House Payments Co. LLC, which operates a
cross-border and domestic wire-transfer system, also received a
letter of designation, according to Erica Hurtt, vice president
for communications at the Clearing House.  Compliance Policy  Derivatives Competition Plan May Be Scrapped by EU Lawmakers  Deutsche Boerse AG (DBK)  may win a reprieve from draft European
Union proposals to force exchanges to open up their derivatives
clearing services to competition.  Some members of the  European Parliament  are seeking to
scrap part of the proposals by Michel Barnier, the bloc’s
financial services chief, amid fears they would threaten market
stability, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg news.  The legislators are concerned that Barnier’s plans to boost
competition will “fragment liquidity in trading platforms,”
which “played a vital role in promoting stability during the
financial crisis,” according to the document that lists
proposed amendments to Barnier’s draft law.  The parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee is
scheduled to vote on its opinion on the draft law on July 9,
according to the assembly’s website. The legislation must be
approved by the parliament and by the EU’s national governments
before it can come into effect.  For more, click here.  Fitch Wavers Over Plans to Loosen Derivatives Rules for Banks  Fitch Ratings is wavering on part of its plan to loosen
rules for banks that sell derivatives contained in
securitizations and covered bonds.  The company is readying a series of adjustments to its
guidelines for transactions that rely on counterparties in the
$700 trillion derivatives market. Swaps can be used to turn
mortgages in one currency into securities in another or to
create floating-rate bonds out of fixed car loans.  The ratings firm said in a March  report  that as part of the
overhaul it may expand the types of assets that downgraded
counterparties can post as collateral to maintain grades on
securitized or covered bonds, or that lower-rated banks can use
with new deals. Eligible collateral, which now includes only
cash and government debt rated at least AA-, may extend to
corporate notes, covered bonds and securitized debt.  Debt from the more than $4 trillion securitization market
such as mortgage bonds can be harder to trade and tougher to
value. In 2007 and 2008 those characteristics roiled financial
firms, funds and so-called structured investment vehicles, whose
top-rated debt then formed a $400 billion market before often
losing most of its value.  The revised protocols should be finished this month with
otherwise minor adjustments, the London-based analysts said last
week in a telephone interview.  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Copper ETF Plan Seen Creating Havoc by Merchant Groups  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s plan to introduce an exchange-traded
fund linked to copper will “severely disrupt” the market, a
group of industrial copper users told the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Funds backed by copper would leave less of the metal
available for manufacturers, creating shortages and driving up
prices, according to a  letter  filed to securities regulator by
Vandenberg & Feliu, a New York-based law firm representing a
major copper-merchant company and several copper fabricators.  NYSE Arca Inc., the electronic platform of NYSE Euronext,
filed with the SEC to list and trade JPM XF Physical Copper
Trust, according to an April 2 document.  JPMorgan’s offering initially calls for the removal from
the market of as much as 61,800 metric tons of copper, or the
withdrawal of more than 30 percent of the supplies available for
immediate delivery worldwide, the merchants group said in its
letter.  “JPM’s offering will therefore result in a substantial
artificially-induced rise in near-term copper prices on the
London Metal Exchange, which will severely disrupt the world
market for the trading of such copper,” the group said in the
letter, dated May 9.  The Financial Times reported the copper group’s letter to
the SEC earlier.  Japan’s FSA Plans Auditing Rules to Detect Fraud, Nikkei Says  The Financial Services Authority, Japan’s financial
watchdog, plans to implement revisions to auditing rules to
detect fraud in the fiscal year ending March 2014. The new rules
follow cases that have arisen, including hidden losses at
Olympus, the Nikkei newspaper reported, citing an unidentified
senior official at the agency.  The agency is to provide procedures for identifying
deceptive accounting, and will consider rules for handing over
information to new auditors, according to Nikkei.  UAE Wants to Revamp Financial Regulation, WAM Reports  A United Arab Emirates government committee headed by the
finance minister proposed that the central bank and bourse
regulator be given joint duties to regulate the financial
industry and safeguard it from global crises.  The committee also recommended that a comprehensive
financial law be considered by the Cabinet along with amendments
to legislation governing financial companies and banks, the
official WAM news agency reported.  The panel proposed that the  Securities and Commodities
Authority  be renamed the Emirates Financial Services Authority.
The purpose of the changes would be to help avoid “falling
into” any global financial crisis.  Special Section:  Facebook IPO   Senate Banking Committee Looking Into Facebook IPO, Aide Says  The U.S. Senate’s banking committee is probing  Facebook
Inc.’s (FB)  initial public offering, said Sean Oblack, a committee
spokesman.  The committee, led by Senator Tim Johnson, a South Dakota
Democrat, will have staff-level briefings with Facebook
officials, regulators and other stakeholders, Oblack said.  Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Sued Over Facebook Stock Sale  Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. were sued along with other underwriters and Facebook Inc.
by investors who claimed they were misled in the purchase of the
social network firm’s stock.  The investors said the members of a proposed class action,
or group lawsuit, have lost more than $2.5 billion since the
initial public offering last week, in a complaint filed
yesterday in Manhattan federal court. They claimed Facebook and
the banks didn’t disclose lower revenue estimates.  Also sued were units of  Bank of America Corp.  and  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and Facebook’s top executives and directors, according to
the filing.  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Menlo Park,  California-based
Facebook , said in an e-mail: “We believe the lawsuit is without
merit and will defend ourselves vigorously.” Pen Pendleton,
Michael DuVally and Mark Lane, spokesmen for  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
Goldman Sachs and Barclays, respectively, declined to comment.
Representatives of JP Morgan and Bank of America didn’t
immediately return calls for comment.  Also named as defendants in yesterday’s suit are Facebook’s
co-founder and chief executive,  Mark Zuckerberg , and its chief
financial officer, David Ebersman.  The underwriter case is Brian Roffe Profit Sharing Plan v.
Facebook, 12-04081, and the Nasdaq case is Goldberg v. Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc., 12-cv-04054, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Separately, Facebook Inc. may fall more than 42 percent
below its initial public offering price by the end of the year,
according to bets by structured-product investors.  The most actively traded structured products tied to
Facebook since its IPO have been so-called put warrants, whose
buyers profit if the shares drop below a pre-defined level, in
some cases as low as $22, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  UBS
AG (UBSN) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  are among lenders
that listed 1,504 warrants and certificates in Europe linked to
shares of the social networking site that were offered at $38.  Put warrants give investors a cash payment depending on how
far a stock falls below a set level.  For more, click here.  Facebook Suit Shows Rules Need Updating, Lopresti Says  Marc Lopresti, an attorney at Tagliaferro & Lopresti LLP,
discussed the lawsuit filed against Facebook Inc. and various
underwriters including Morgan Stanley,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  He spoke with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s
“Money Moves.” Bloomberg’s Serena Saitto also spoke.  For the video, click here.  Compliance Action  Chipotle Says Worker Investigations May Continue for Two Years  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) , the eatery that fired workers
after an immigration probe began, said investigations by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Department of
Justice may continue for as long as two more years.  Federal prosecutors are investigating possible criminal
securities-law violations, the Denver-based company said in a
filing with the SEC May 22. Last week, the SEC subpoenaed
Chipotle regarding work authorizations.  The investigations into Chipotle employees are part of
President  Barack Obama ’s efforts to crack down on illegal
immigrants working in the U.S.  The 1,260-store burrito chain fired about 450 workers after
an immigration investigation began in 2010 in Minnesota. It has
since spread to other U.S. cities including Washington, where it
let go about 50 workers last year.  Chipotle has been using the government’s E-Verify system to
validate the identity of all of its employees since March 2011,
Chris Arnold, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. Chipotle
had about 30,940 employees, including 2,570 salaried and 28,370
hourly workers, as of Dec. 31, according to a company filing.  Adidas Says Indian Authorities to Examine Criminal Complaint  Adidas AG (ADS) , which said last month that it discovered
irregularities at the Indian arm of its Reebok unit, filed a
criminal complaint and is working with Indian authorities
investigating the matter.  The complaint has been registered for investigation by
Indian law enforcement authorities, Adidas, based in
Herzogenaurach, Germany, said yesterday in a statement.  Police are investigating two former executives of Reebok
India after the company made allegations of fraudulent practices
worth as much as 8.7 billion rupees ($160 million), according to
one person involved in the inquiry, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private.  Adidas spokeswoman Katja Schreiber declined to comment on
the details of the complaint.  For more, click here.  Interviews  JPMorgan Loss Is Bad Risk Management, U.K. FSA’s Bailey Says  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s, trading loss in its London unit is
an example of “bad risk management,”  Andrew Bailey , head of
banking supervision at the U.K. Financial Services Authority,
told reporters today.  Bailey said he didn’t “see a conduct issue for the
moment” in the U.K. for the bank.  “It’s a very salutary lesson about the use of models and
the dangers of over-reliance on single models,” Bailey said.  Schapiro Says SEC’s JPMorgan Review Focused on VAR Models  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary
Schapiro said the agency is “very focused” on determining
whether JPMorgan Chase & Co. appropriately disclosed changes it
made during the first quarter to a complex risk calculation.  She made the remarks May 22 during an appearance before the
 Senate Banking Committee  in Washington.  Schapiro’s comments were the most extensive she has made
since the biggest U.S. bank announced a $2 billion trading loss
on May 10. The remarks indicated that the SEC is examining how
JPMorgan measured its “value at risk,” or VaR,  which is a
measure of how much the company estimates it could lose on
securities on 95 percent of days.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon told investors
on May 10 that the company used a new model, which later proved
to be “inadequate,” to calculate VaR some time during the
first quarter. The change ended up cutting the unit’s estimated
risk profile by about half.  JPMorgan spokesman Joseph Evangelisti declined to comment
on Schapiro’s remarks. The bank did disclose the change in an
official financial statement filed on May 10, though not in the
earlier earnings release.  For more, click here.  FDIC Warns Investors of Potential Risks in Derivative-Tied CDs  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. warned investors of the
potential risks involved in certificates of deposit that use
derivatives for customized bets, which are currently being
marketed “aggressively” to investors.  The investments can have longer maturities than fixed-rate
CDs, higher penalties for early withdrawal and could earn zero
interest with buyers on the hook to pay taxes on income they
didn’t earn, the regulator said. While the products may offer
higher returns than traditional CDs, the formula for calculating
the potential return may be “extremely complex” and the CDs
also may not track the underlying index closely.  Meron Wondwosen, an FDIC Consumer Affairs Specialist, made
the statement in a  May 18 article  that appeared in the Spring
2012 issue of “FDIC Consumer News.”  The warning follows record sales of the investments last
year. Demand for the so-called “structured CDs” has increased
as interest rates on traditional deposits fall to record lows
and after Congress approved a permanent expansion of FDIC
coverage of bank deposits in July 2010.  Comings and Goings  U.S. Prosecutor Patrick Fitzgerald in Chicago to Step Down  U.S. Attorney Patrick J. Fitzgerald in Chicago, the chief
federal prosecutor in the Northern District of Illinois since
Sept. 1, 2001, said he will step down effective June 30.  During his decade-long tenure, the appointee of Republican
President George W. Bush won convictions of two Illinois
governors, Republican George Ryan and Democrat Rod Blagojevich,
newspaper publisher Conrad Black, and Bush White House aide I.
Lewis “Scooter” Libby.  Fitzgerald, 51, who scheduled a press conference for today,
has no immediate employment plans and “will take time off this
summer before considering career options,” according to a
Justice Department statement.  His northeastern Illinois territory encompassed Chicago,
the third-most populous U.S. city, as well as its surrounding
Cook County and 17 other counties, according to the government
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 