-- CME Parries ICE With First Contract on East European Crop
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g ,   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a   a n d   T o n y   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-05-24T16:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/cme-group-opens-its-first-futures-contract-on-east-european-crop.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s decision to spend a
year-and-a-half developing its first futures contract on an
Eastern European crop began with a newspaper article.  Leo Melamed  couldn’t believe it when he read that  Vladimir Putin 
wished there was a way to insure a wheat harvest after Russia’s
disastrous 2010 drought.  “I said, ‘Wait, I know how to insure a crop,’” says
Melamed, the chairman emeritus of the world’s largest futures
exchange who’s known as the father of financial futures for his
role in creating currency contracts in the early 1970s,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its May 28 issue.  When negotiations stalled with Russia, the world’s third-
largest wheat exporter, CME Group shifted its efforts to
Ukraine. In May 2011, the exchange signed memorandums of
understanding with the Ukrainian government and the Ukraine
Futures Exchange. “The Ukrainians wanted to be first,” Melamed
says. “They were ready to move.”  On June 6, Chicago-based CME Group will start trading in a
 Black Sea  wheat contract on its electronic network, giving
investors, producers and companies that buy grain a chance to
lock in prices or speculate on them.  With the new contract, CME Group, whose predecessors
introduced commodity futures to the world in 1848, is expanding
its reach and playing some defense against its much younger
rival,  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , the nation’s second-
largest futures market. Intercontinental, known as ICE, began
trading corn, wheat, soybeans and soy-oil contracts on May 14.  ‘A Little Crazy’  While it might seem a quixotic effort -- CME Group accounts
for 98 percent of all U.S. futures trading -- ICE has beat
daunting odds before. In 2006 it took 30 percent of the U.S. oil
futures market from the  New York Mercantile Exchange . CME Group
bought Nymex in 2008.  “We think we’re in as good a position as any to be
successful,” says Benjamin Jackson, the chief operating officer
of ICE Futures U.S., ICE’s New York exchange, where the grain
contracts trade. “At a minimum, we’re responding to what our
customers want, and if it doesn’t work, they owe us one.”  CME Group is not dismissing the challenge. “We take
everything seriously as a competitive issue, even though I don’t
think they will succeed,” says Melamed, who adds a note of
skepticism: “This is a little crazy.”  Marlboro Cigarettes  Melamed has a long history in the  Black Sea region . He fled
the Nazis with his parents across the  Soviet Union  in 1939. Half
a century later, in 1990, he got a call from  Mikhail Gorbachev ,
during the waning days of the Soviet Union. The leader persuaded
Melamed to help the Russians set up the Moscow Commodity
Exchange, which was meant to show the world that the country was
changing.  After Melamed cut the ribbon to open the market, the first
trade was 1 million Marlboro cigarettes in exchange for a
computer, he recalls. “It was not free-market at all, it was
just a prearranged trade, which I explained to them is not
exactly what I had in mind,” he says. “We laughed all the way
home.”  Ukraine will export 23 million tons of wheat and other
grain in the 12 months through June, making it the world’s
eighth-largest seller of the grain. So CME Group’s interest in a
futures contract is understandable, says Rodion Rybchinsky, head
of business projects at agriculture consulting firm APK-Inform
in the Ukrainian city of Dnipropetrovsk. Yet he wonders whether
it will take hold. “There are very few market players who are
familiar with futures” in the region, he says.  Local Corruption  Producers and traders will be wary of futures because local
corruption could block possession of grain bought via the
contracts, according to two grain merchants in Ukraine who asked
not to be named for fear of government reprisal.  Ukraine also has a long history of government intervention
in the grain industry, which discourages customers, says  Terry Reilly , an analyst at Citigroup Global Markets in  Chicago . “How
it starts out will determine if it’s going to be successful,”
he says. “Is there going be enough trading volume? Are
investors willing to bear risks that local government could
intervene and set export restrictions?”  Authorities in Ukraine imposed limits on shipments of corn,
wheat and barley in October of 2010 in a bid to limit domestic
price increases after drought damaged crops, reducing production
by 19 percent from a year earlier. The quotas were lifted eight
months later.  Drought Restrictions  Ukraine Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov ’s government in
February asked grain traders to restrict wheat exports after
weeks of freezing temperatures aggravated drought damage to
winter plantings. The government later said it had no plans to
impose restrictions this year.  Some traders in  Egypt , the world’s biggest importer of
wheat, also are skeptical. “In the beginning, it’s going to be
a bit difficult to get buyers using this contract,” says Amr
Kassem, the owner and general manager of East Med Commodities
Trading LLC, a brokerage in Cairo.  At the same time, the new contract could get the attention
of buyers who already use Black Sea grain priced with CME’s soft
red wheat contract as a proxy, Kassem says. “Buyers who are
doing this will switch definitely to the Black Sea wheat
contract.”  To reassure customers, CME Group is planning as many as
four delivery points. When contracts expire, customers who wish
to take delivery will be able to pick up their grain in  Russia ,
Ukraine and  Romania , CME Group has said. And it may add a port
in Varna,  Bulgaria , according to David Lehman, the managing
director of commodity research and product development, who
spent the last year and a half traveling monthly to Ukraine to
set up the contract. “There’s always a risk when you design a
new contract,” he says.  The expansion to the Black Sea also fits with CME Group’s
larger strategy of partnering with international markets in
Brazil and  China . “The potential is enormous, and that includes
Russia and it includes  Kazakhstan ” as well as  Poland , Melamed
says. “They all want to become important market economies, and
we are part of that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Anastasia Ustinova in Chicago at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  