-- Codelco Says Hernandez Resigns as CEO of Top Copper Miner
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-05-25T13:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/codelco-says-hernandez-resigns-as-ceo-of-top-copper-miner.html
Codelco, engaged in a dispute with
Anglo American Plc over the world’s fifth-largest copper mine,
said its chief executive resigned in the same week as the
companies resumed talks to seek an out-of-court settlement.  Diego Hernandez , a former  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  executive, will
leave Codelco after two years in the job for personal reasons,
the state-owned company said in a statement on the Chilean
securities regulator’s website yesterday. Chief Financial
Officer  Thomas Keller  will replace Hernandez.  The announcement comes two days after Anglo and Codelco
halted legal proceedings to seek an agreement over terms of a
2002 contract that gave Codelco an option to buy a stake in
Anglo assets at a below-market price. Mining Minister Hernan de Solminihac said Hernandez’s departure won’t affect negotiations.  “Even with this change, the board remains intact and the
person who’s taking over is someone who was in the
administration and was brought in by Diego Hernandez,” de
Solminihac said in an interview with state television station
TVN. “The same strategy will be employed moving forward.”  In his two years at Codelco’s helm, Hernandez stepped up
investments in a bid to lift output at the state-owned company’s
aging mines in  Chile . He replaced mine managers, cut workers and
recruited Keller, formerly a managing director at Toronto-based
 Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM)  Codelco is the world’s biggest
copper producer.  Rising Costs  Hernandez faced rising costs to revamp mines including
century-old Chuquicamata. Codelco’s production will slump to
800,000 metric tons from about 1.7 million tons if it doesn’t
spend more than $20 billion over a decade, he said April 17.  Codelco hands over all profits to the government and
presents an investment proposal each year to reinvest profits.  “They’ve got a lot of projects they’re looking to develop
but in Chile it’s pretty hard to do with government pressures
and industry pressures,” said Anna Kassianos, resources analyst
at Platypus Asset Management Ltd in Sydney.  In naming Keller, “continuity of the company’s management
is ensured,” according to the regulatory filing.  Hernandez surprised investors in October by announcing
plans to exercise the option to buy 49 percent of the Anglo Sur
unit for about $6 billion after reaching a funding arrangement
with  Mitsui & Co Ltd. (8031)   Legal Battle  Anglo, whose shares plunged 4.7 percent the day after the
announcement, said Codelco had breached terms by attempting to
take up the option prematurely. London-based Anglo unveiled in
November an agreement to sell 24.5 percent of the unit to
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  for $5.39 billion, in a deal Codelco said was
designed to block its option.  The two companies’ ensuing legal battle was halted May 22
for a month. Anglo Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll 
welcomed the opportunity to “re-engage,” the company said in a
statement at the time.  Hernandez told reporters May 23 that while trying to find a
solution was “an alternative,” Codelco has a good legal case.
The two sides last held talks Jan. 29, Hernandez said, adding he
didn’t speak with Carroll at a recent conference in Miami. The
state-owned company rejected an offer from  Anglo (AAL)  last year to
tear up the option contract for a $1 billion payment, Hernandez
said in an April 18 interview.  ‘Far Apart’  “The two companies’ expectations have been very far
apart,” he said May 23. “Let’s see if they’re any closer.”  Sur includes Los Bronces, where Anglo completed last year a
$2.8 billion expansion, and two of the world’s best undeveloped
copper deposits, according to  John MacKenzie , head of copper at
Anglo. Codelco owns the Andina copper mine adjacent to Los
Bronces in the Andean foothills near the Chilean capital
Santiago.  A Chilean court rejected a petition by Codelco last month
to freeze 49 percent of dividends paid by the division.  Keller, 55, has a commercial engineering degree from
Chile’s Adolfo Ibanez University and a Master of Business
Administration from the  University of Chicago . He was previously
executive president of the Collahuasi copper mine, which is
owned by Anglo and  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   Boost Output  Codelco plans to spend at least $20 billion this decade to
replace falling output and boost annual production to more than
2 million metric tons from less than 1.8 million tons now.  The mining minister told TVN yesterday that he doesn’t have
details on why Hernandez resigned.  Neither Hernandez nor Keller was available to comment, a
Codelco official said by telephone, declining to be named citing
company policy. Hernandez’s resignation isn’t related to the
Anglo dispute, the official said.  Anglo isn’t commenting on Hernandez’s resignation, Marcelo Esquivel, a Santiago-based spokesman, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  