-- Commercial-Property Recovery Slowed in March, Moody’s Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-05-24T17:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/commercial-property-recovery-slowed-in-march-moody-s-says-1-.html
U.S. commercial-property price gains
slowed in the past three months as concern over  Europe ’s debt
crisis reduced the availability of financing for real estate
transactions, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The Moody’s/RCA national all-property composite index was
little changed in March from February and up 12 percent from a
year earlier, Moody’s said in a report today. Price advances
have slowed, with the measure gaining 1.8 percent from the end
of 2011.  Demand for commercial property has increased since the U.S.
real estate slump, with values recovering 28 percent since the
market bottomed in January 2010, according to New York-based
Moody’s. Multifamily buildings have led price gains as consumers
shunned buying homes and opted for renting apartments. Suburban
offices performed the worst in March, with prices falling 3.5
percent from February.  “The increased cost and decreased availability of capital-
markets debt in the wake of ongoing euro-area sovereign stress
has filtered its way into the prices of recently closed
transactions,” Moody’s said. “Apartment prices in major
markets have shown the strongest recovery.”  Multifamily building prices rose 18 percent in the 12
months through March, the strongest performance for the year
among all index components, according to the report. Apartment
properties in major markets have recovered 87 percent of the
value lost since their trough in December 2009, Moody’s said.  Index Changes  The report was the first on the Moody’s/RCA index, which is
calculated using sales data from Real Capital Analytics Inc., a
New York-based research firm. Moody’s ceased publication of its
previous index in November.  The new measure places greater weight on transactions in
major markets that have less property distress and more
liquidity, according to the companies. Data will be released
monthly for the composite gauge and 20 subindexes, some of which
were previously reported quarterly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  