-- Commercial Paper Market Rises to Most This Year, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-05-24T15:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/commercial-paper-market-rises-to-most-this-year-fed-says-1-.html
The market for corporate borrowing
via  commercial paper  increased to more than $1 trillion
outstanding for the first time this year, as investors bought
financial institutions’ short-term IOUs even as concern mounts
that  Europe ’s fiscal and currency turmoil may spread.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
rose $14.9 billion to $1.009 trillion in the week ended
yesterday, the  Federal Reserve  said today on its website. That’s
the highest level since $1.03 trillion on Sept. 21, while the
fourth straight weekly increase is the longest streak since the
period ended Feb. 8.  As demand from money-market funds, among the biggest
investors in the market, has been curbed by concern that
Europe’s fiscal crisis will infect bank balance sheets globally,
other buyers have entered the market.  “The growth in commercial paper outstanding continues to
coexist with a shrinkage in money-market mutual fund assets,”
 Howard Simons , a strategist at Bianco Research LLC in  Chicago ,
wrote in an e-mail. “This suggests corporate treasurers
continue to use very short-term commercial paper as a
replacement for institutional money-market funds.”  Commercial paper sold by non-U.S. financial institutions 
climbed for a third week, increasing $5.6 billion to $189
billion, the highest level since Sept. 28, while the  amount
issued by U.S.-based banks  expanded for a fourth week, rising
$2.1 billion to $291 billion, according to the Fed.  ‘Over-Protected’  Investors are buying short-term obligations from financial
institutions because government backing supports many big banks,
Simons said. “The banking system is over-reserved and over-
protected,” he said.  In an effort to make their holdings safer, investors are
shifting into shorter-term maturities within the market for
commercial paper, which typically matures in 270 days or less
and corporations sell to fund everyday activities such as rent
and salaries.  “The average maturity for CP contracted to the shortest of
the year this week, as funding stresses in Europe have
reemerged, causing money funds to return a preference for
liquidity,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by Ira Jersey
wrote in a research report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  