-- Conoco, Origin Get $8.5 Billion for LNG Project in Australia
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-05-24T06:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/conoco-origin-get-8-5-billion-for-lng-project-in-australia-2-.html
ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Origin Energy
Ltd. (ORG) , partners in a $20 billion liquefied natural gas project in
the Australian state of Queensland, obtained $8.5 billion in
loans from banks and  export credit agencies .  The  Australia  Pacific LNG project reached agreements with
the Export-Import Bank of the U.S., the Export-Import Bank of
 China  and a group of Australian and international banks, Sydney-
based Origin said today in a statement. The funding depends on
the partners approving the second phase of the project, a
decision expected by mid-2012, Origin said.  “It represents one of the largest project finance
facilities in Australia,” Karen Moses, Origin’s executive
director of finance and strategy, said in the statement.  The venture is among $170 billion of LNG projects being
built in Australia to meet rising Asian demand for the fuel.
 Japan ’s  Inpex Corp. (1605)  planned to start marketing loans of as much
as $20 billion to banks last month for its Ichthys LNG project
in Australia, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Costs to build Australian LNG developments are rising, with
 BG Group Plc (BG/)  saying May 3 the bill for its LNG venture jumped 36
percent because of Australian dollar gains, rising labor and
material costs and higher regulatory expenses. Origin said today
that its project is on schedule and budget.  Shares of Origin  rose 0.7 percent to A$12.91 in Sydney,
while the benchmark index slipped 0.3 percent.  Origin and Conoco, the largest U.S. independent oil and gas
producer by market value, approved the first stage of the
venture in July. Shipments from the initial unit, or train,
estimated to cost $14 billion, are scheduled to begin in 2015.  ANZ, Bank of China  “We see this as a step to both lower the cost of funding
and also reduce refinancing risk faced by Origin,” Macquarie
Group Ltd. said today in a note to clients.  Origin had A$5.5 billion of cash and undrawn debt at the
end of last year, the company said in February.  The 15 banks providing the financing include  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) ,  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  and the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. The banks
and U.S. export credit agency signed finance agreements for
terms of 16 years and 17 years, respectively, Origin said.  China Petrochemical Corp., or Sinopec Group, agreed earlier
this year to pay $1.1 billion to increase its stake in the
Conoco and Origin development to 25 percent from 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  