-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Hovered Near Four-Month Low Last Week
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-24T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-hovered-near-four-month-low-last-week.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
improved last week for the first time in a month as falling
gasoline prices helped stem dismay over household finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 42 in the
seven days ended May 20 after an almost four-month low of minus
43.6 the prior period. The measure, which has a margin of error
of 3 percentage points, slumped 12.2 points over the previous
four weeks, wiping out almost the entire gain for the year.  The cheapest  gasoline  in three months, a slowdown in
firings and a more stable housing market may be blunting the
influence of falling stock prices that reflect growing concern
over the  European debt crisis . Bigger gains in employment and
wages will be needed to further spur consumer sentiment and
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  “A slower pace of initial jobless claims and falling
gasoline prices modestly bolstered confidence,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. At
the same time, the survey “continues to point to widespread
discontent among the American public.”  The number of Americans filing first-time  claims  for
unemployment insurance payments was little changed last week,
adding to evidence the labor market recovery may have paused,
another report showed today. Applications for jobless benefits
decreased by 2,000 to 370,000 in the week ended May 19,
according to the Labor Department.  Also today, Commerce Department data showed orders for
computers, machinery and other non-military capital equipment
dropped in April for a second month, pointing to a slowdown in
business investment.  Investment Slowdown  Bookings for such non-defense goods excluding aircraft
decreased 1.9 percent after falling 2.2 percent in March, the
first back-to-back decline in a year, data from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington. Demand for all  durable
goods , those meant to last at least three years, rose 0.2
percent, matching the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Stocks were little changed as a rally in shares of Hewlett-
Packard Co. helped offset the disappointing numbers on the
economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was at 1,318.3 at 9:40
a.m. in  New York , down less than 0.1 percent from yesterday’s
close.  Readings lower than minus 40 for the comfort measure are
correlated with “severe economic discontent,” according to
 Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New
York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg. Since its
inception in December 1985, the gauge has averaged minus 15.3.  Four-Year High  The comfort index began 2012 at minus 44.8 and reached a
four-year high of minus 31.4 in the week ended April 15.  Payroll gains that averaged 267,000 workers a month in
January and February have given way to average increases of
135,000 over the past two months, according to data from the
Labor Department.  “Improving employment encouraged that rally” earlier in
the year, Langer said in a statement today. “Underwhelming news
on the job front since has clipped its wings.”  The advance in the comfort index from January through mid-
April predated similar gains in other surveys. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary gauge of consumer
sentiment rose in May to the  highest level  in four years, a
report showed on May 11.  Between 1996 and the first quarter of 2012, the consumer
comfort buying-climate index explained 69 percent of the
quarterly variation in inflation-adjusted  consumer spending ,
according to calculations by Brusuelas.  Spending Outlook  The 14-point drop in the gauge from early April through the
week of May 12 “does not bode well for real household spending
in the current quarter following the 2.9 percent increase
through the first three months of the year,” Brusuelas said.  All three components of the comfort index improved. A
measure of views on the  state of the economy  advanced to minus
68.7 from minus 69.6, the report showed. An index of the  buying
climate  increased to minus 46.5 from minus 48.2, and a gauge of
 personal finances  rose to minus 10.8 from minus 12.9.  Less expensive fuel is providing some respite to consumers.
The average price of a gallon of gasoline fell to $3.68 on May
23 and is down 26 cents from a peak this year of $3.94 in early
April, according to AAA, the nation’s largest auto group.  One bright spot in the survey was the ninth consecutive
positive reading among Americans earning  more than $100,000 .
Sentiment for most other income categories worsened last week.  Regional Breakdown  Consumer comfort climbed in three regions and declined in
the West. Confidence also improved for Americans with full-time
jobs and those working part-time, while moods worsened for the
unemployed.  Among independents, a key swing group in this year’s
presidential election, the comfort gauge advanced to minus 44.4
from minus 48.6 the prior week. The measure worsened a bit for
Democrats and was little changed for Republicans.  Companies noting the uneven nature of gains and losses in
confidence include  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S.
discount retailer. Consumers were more confident in their
financial situations in the first quarter, then sentiment waned,
executives said. Target raised its full-year earnings forecast
and projected same-store sales will rise 3 percent this quarter.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  