-- Copper Traders Extend Bearish Streak as Prices Drop
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-05-25T15:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/copper-traders-extend-bearish-streak-as-prices-drop-commodities.html
Copper traders are bearish for a
second week after mounting concern that slowing growth in China
and  Europe  would curb demand drove prices to a four-month low.  Nine of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the metal
to drop next week and three were neutral, the first consecutive
negative outlook since April 6.  Hedge funds  and other money
managers cut their wagers on higher prices by 69 percent in the
week ended May 15, the most in a month, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show.  Raw materials  slid to a five-month low this week and more
than $4.3 trillion was erased from the value of global equities
this month on concern that  Greece  will exit the euro as the
region’s debt crisis deepens. Manufacturing in the 17-nation
euro area slumped to the weakest in almost three years this
month and may shrink for a seventh month in  China , which
accounts for about 40 percent of global copper consumption.  “Copper tends to be a reasonably good signal of what’s
going on in the real world,” said Guy Wolf, a strategist at
Marex Spectron Group in London. “Europe has become a more
immediate concern. Most people in the copper market were already
concerned about the outlook in China. We’re looking for prices
to find a floor at lower levels in the next couple of months.”  Copper gained 0.7 percent to $7,654 a metric ton this year
on the London Metal Exchange and traded at $7,503 on May 23, the
lowest since Jan. 10. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities slid 3.7 percent this year and the MSCI All-Country
World  Index (MXWD)  of equities rose 0.4 percent. Treasuries returned
1.2 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Shortage Narrowing  The metal’s third consecutive annual shortage is narrowing,
with demand expected to outpace supply by 158,000 tons this
year, compared with 213,000 tons in 2011, according to Barclays
Plc. Copper will be in a surplus next year and in 2014, Tiberius
Asset Management AG said in a report e-mailed May 18.  While stockpiles monitored by the LME dropped 40 percent
this year, some of the metal may be going into bonded warehouses
in China that are exempt from a value-added tax and import
duties. Inventories in those warehouses are about 600,000 tons,
 Standard Chartered  Plc said in a report April 26. The total
including refined and semi-finished metal probably climbed to a
record of about 1 million tons, the bank’s analysts said.  China’s refined copper imports slid 21 percent in April
from a month earlier, customs data show. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. still expects Chinese demand to drive prices to $9,000 in
three months. The bank’s copper consumption indicator, tracking
consumer appliance and auto demand in the nation, was at the
second-highest level ever last month, the bank’s analysts said
in a May 23 report. The gauge will climb about 3 percent this
year and about 8 percent next year, they forecast.  Global Expansion  The global economy will expand 3.5 percent this year and
4.1 percent next year, the International Monetary Fund
estimates. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said over the weekend that
the nation will focus more on spurring growth.  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, will consider all ideas on bolstering the euro
area, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said May 21.  Potential production losses may help sustain a supply
shortage. BHP Billiton Ltd. and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s
biggest and third-biggest mining companies by sales, said this
month they’ll ration  capital spending  because of costs. Codelco,
the largest copper producer, produced 10 percent less metal in
the first quarter as ore-grades decreased.  Manufacturing Falls  A gauge of euro-area manufacturing decreased to 45 in May
from 45.9 in April, the lowest in 35 months, London-based Markit
Economics said yesterday. A 48.7 preliminary reading for a
purchasing managers’ index in China released by HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit yesterday compares with 49.3 for April. If
confirmed on June 1, it would mark the longest run of below-50
readings since the global recession.  Thirteen of 26 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
said gold would advance next week and three were neutral.
Futures on the Comex exchange in  New York  is little changed at
$1,567.60 an ounce since the start of January after climbing the
previous 11 years.  Six of 11 people surveyed expect raw-sugar prices to
decline next week and two were neutral. It slipped 15 percent to
19.71 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York this year.  Thirteen of 23 people surveyed anticipate higher corn
prices next week, while 11 of 25 said soybeans will advance and
six predicted little change. Corn dropped 9.9 percent to $5.825
a bushel this year as soybeans advanced 14 percent to $13.81 a
bushel in Chicago trading.  “All the problems in Europe are starting to have an effect
on the real economy,” said  Dan Smith , a commodities analyst at
Standard Chartered in  London . “Countries like China will start
to re-accelerate as the government pumps more money into the
system. We’re quite optimistic things will turn up in the second
half of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  