-- Copper Rises on China Demand Speculation, Producers’ Struggles
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-05-24T17:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/copper-rises-on-china-demand-speculation-producers-struggles.html
Copper rose in  New York , rebounding
from the biggest drop in seven weeks, on renewed concern that
the world’s mines will fail to keep pace with demand in  China ,
the largest global buyer of the metal.  China’s government signaled a commitment to growth for the
second time in four days. A measure of Chinese copper use was at
the second-highest on record in April,  Max Layton , a Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. analyst, said in a report. Mine output at
Codelco, the largest producer, fell 10 percent in the first
quarter because of lower ore grades. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index of 24 raw materials rose for the first time in three
days.  “We’re seeing a respite from selling across the board,”
 Matthew Zeman , a strategist at Kingsview Financial in  Chicago ,
said in a telephone interview. “The thinking is that China will
continue to ease, and that’s helping buoy markets. Output and
inventory issues are also going to help keep a floor under
copper prices.”  Copper futures for July delivery rose 1 percent to settle
at $3.4285 a pound at 1:11 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
Yesterday, prices slid 2.6 percent, the most since April 4.  China’s leaders pledged to intensify “fine-tuning” of
policies, indicating a commitment to growth as domestic demand
slows and the euro-area debt crisis escalates. Manufacturing in
the country may shrink for a seventh month in May, a private
survey showed, reinforcing the need for stimulus.  Copper  stockpiles  monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange,
down 40 percent this year, fell 0.7 percent to 224,075 metric
tons, daily exchange figures showed.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months rose 1
percent to $7,610 a metric ton ($3.45 a pound).  Nickel, aluminum, zinc, tin and lead rose in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  