-- Costco Profit Tops Estimates as Margins Widen
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-05-24T20:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/costco-third-quarter-profit-tops-estimates-as-margins-improve.html
Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest
U.S. warehouse-club chain, posted third-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates as margins improved for the first
time in more than a year.  Net income  in the quarter ended May 6 rose to $386 million,
or 88 cents a share, from $324 million, or 73 cents, a year
earlier, the Issaquah, Washington-based company said today in a
statement. Excluding some items, profit was 89 cents a share.
Analysts projected 87 cents, the average of 24 estimates.  Chief Executive Officer Craig Jelinek has been luring
customers with low prices on everything from baked goods to
gasoline. The chain has also added more service areas, such as
pharmacies and vision centers, to its locations to claim more of
its members’ spending.  “We are particularly encouraged by the gross margin
expansion,” Sean Naughton, an analyst for Piper Jaffray & Co.
in  Minneapolis , wrote in a note to clients. There are more
opportunities for margins to increase, he said.  Costco rose 1.4 percent to $84.48 at the close in New York.
The shares were little changed this year through yesterday.  The retailer’s in-store gross margin, or the percentage of
store sales left after subtracting the cost of goods sold,
widened to 10.55 percent from 10.51 percent a year earlier. That
marked the first year-over-year gain in five quarters.  Same-store sales, a key metric for retailers because only
established locations are counted, rose 5 percent, excluding
changes in  gas prices  and currency rates. Net sales gained 8.2
percent to $21.8 billion, and revenue from membership fees
advanced 9.2 percent to $475 million.  The increase in same-store sales was slower than the 7
percent gain in Costco’s previous two quarters. That
decelerating growth and reduced traffic at its gas pumps raises
concerns that sales won’t rebound this year, Daniel Binder, an
analyst for Jefferies & Co. in  New York , wrote in a note to
clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  