-- Craigslist Prostitution Ads Resurface in Some Places, Study Says
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/craigslist-prostitution-ads-resurface-in-some-places-study-says.html
Prostitution ads are back on
Craigslist, according to a new report.  Craigslist, the online-classified ad site, eliminated a
category dedicated to adult services in 2010 and shut down
erotic services section a year earlier amid pressure from U.S.
state attorneys general.  That hasn’t stopped prostitution ads from showing up in the
“casual encounters” and “therapeutic massage” sections of
the site in some markets, consulting firm AIM Group LLC said in
a report cited by Bloomberg.com’s  Tech Blog . While there are
fewer ads than when Craigslist offered its “erotic/adult
services” categories, ads that appear to be for paid sex work
are posted regularly in some markets, the report said.  “A quick check shows the ads are frequently and quickly
flagged by  the ‘community’ or perhaps competitors,” the report
said. “Craigslist seems to take the ads down when they are
posted, but some slip through.’The most salacious ads are often
taken down within 10 minutes to an  hour, said the report.  Craigslist did not respond to a request for comment.  AIM Group, a market research firm focused on the
classified-advertising industry, also discovered ads or listings
for escorts, body rubs and even call girls on sites including
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  New York Times Co. (NYT) ’s About.com.  ‘‘Some ads or listings are extremely explicit; some are
just suggestive,” the report said. “Some are paid; many are
free; still others are pay-per-click.”  ‘Trusted Environment’  Facebook said it gives users the ability to provide
immediate feedback on its ads and site, and encourages people to
report anything they find offensive or misleading. The  Menlo
Park , California-based company, which last week sold shares in
the largest technology IPO, also has a team dedicated to
investigating these complaints, and content that violates the
rules is removed.  “Facebook strives to create a trusted environment for
everyone that  uses our service,” Fred Wolens, a spokesman for
Facebook, said in an  e-mail.  Kristin Mason, a spokeswoman for the About Group, said
these links to third-party sites are placed by independent
contract writers who “are free to write and link to any site
they deem useful to readers of that topic.”  “About.com derives no revenue from links to external sites
or resources,” Mason said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  