-- DBS-Danamon Deal Seen Imperiled by Ownership Rules: Real M&A
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-05-25T10:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/dbs-danamon-deal-seen-imperiled-by-ownership-rules-real-m-a.html
Southeast Asia ’s largest banking
takeover is turning into the emerging-market deal that traders
bet is the most likely to unravel, as  Indonesia  considers
restricting foreign ownership of its lenders.  Shares of Jakarta-based  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  closed
yesterday 21 percent below a 7,000 rupiah per share offer from
 Singapore ’s  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , the biggest discount since
the 66 trillion rupiah ($7 billion) takeover was announced last
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap is the
widest for a pending deal of more than $1 billion in any
developing nation, indicating arbitragers are convinced the
transaction is the least likely to be completed, the data show.  While Danamon had closed about 8 percent below DBS’s offer
price at one point last month, potential regulations from  Bank
Indonesia  to limit foreign ownership of financial firms may now
cause the deal to fall apart,  ABN Amro  Private Banking said.
Indonesia is also using the deal as leverage to gain better
access to Singapore for the country’s lenders as they plan their
own overseas expansion, according to Vriens & Partners Pte.  “The likelihood is that the tender offer won’t happen, so
the decline in the share price is natural,” said Syaiful Adrian, a Jakarta-based analyst for PT Ciptadana Securities.
“For the deal to happen, it must have Bank Indonesia’s
approval. Bank Indonesia objects to the deal and wants to
tighten regulation. Foreigners can expand so easily in our
banking industry whereas it’s very difficult for us to open a
branch overseas.”  Falling Margins  After dropping as much as  7.2 percent , Danamon ended down
6.3 percent at 5,200 rupiah today. The closing price is
Danamon’s lowest since March 30, before the takeover was
announced, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. DBS lost 0.4
percent to S$13.17.  “Bank Indonesia has yet to make any formal announcement
and we would be unable to comment,” said Karen Ngui, a
spokeswoman at DBS. “We are waiting for Bank Indonesia’s
regulation,” said Zsa Zsa Yusharyahya, Danamon’s spokeswoman.  With the takeover of Danamon, DBS would gain a 3,000 branch
network of 6 million customers, more than the entire  population 
of Singapore. Southeast Asia’s largest bank, DBS generates 81
percent of its profit from its home city and  Hong Kong , where
low  interest rates  have squeezed income from lending, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  DBS posted a net interest margin of 1.77 percent in 2011,
marking a fifth year of declines for that measure of
profitability from lending. While Danamon doesn’t report its net
interest margin, according to data compiled by Bloomberg it was
 8.95 percent  in 2011.  Indonesia’s economy grew 6.46 percent last year, its
fastest rate since the Asian financial crisis began in 1997.  Temasek Holdings  Saying the purchase would improve its growth profile, DBS
announced on April 2 that it would acquire Danamon in two
transactions, with the first involving swapping its shares for
the  67 percent stake  in Danamon that is owned by Singapore’s
state backed investment fund Temasek Holdings Pte. The company
will then pay 7,000 rupiah a share for another 32 percent, for a
total value of more than $7 billion.  That would make it the largest takeover of a Southeast
Asian bank, exceeding Singapore-based  United Overseas Bank
Ltd. (UOB) ’s $5.5 billion acquisition of Overseas Union Bank Ltd. in
2001, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Temasek, which has owned a stake in Danamon since 2003, is
also DBS’s  largest shareholder , with an almost 30 percent stake
in the Singapore bank that would rise to 40 percent if the
Danamon purchase closes. Temasek declined to comment on how new
bank ownership rules may affect the sale.  National Identity  On April 11, Bank Indonesia, the nation’s central bank,
said it had sent a letter to its counterpart in Singapore
seeking equal access for Indonesian lenders looking to expand in
Singapore. The central bank didn’t specify what kind of access
it was asking for.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore yesterday referred to a
previous statement that its dealings with other regulators are
confidential. Difi Johansyah, a spokesman at Bank Indonesia,
declined to comment on the talks with Singapore or coming change
in ownership rules.  Currently only one Indonesian lender,  PT Bank Negara
Indonesia (BBNI) , has a full bank license in Singapore that allows it
to take deposits, make loans, and offer financial advisory
services and insurance broking, among other businesses, data
from the Monetary Authority of Singapore show.  The deal also faces a political backlash. A week after Bank
Indonesia raised its demands, Indonesia’s Deputy Finance
Minister Mahendra Siregar said the country’s banks risked losing
their national identity to foreign owners.  “We are concerned that Indonesian institutions only become
the branches of foreign banks,” he said on April 19. DBS
responded the following day that it planned to retain the
Danamon brand after the takeover.  ‘Very Frustrated’  DBS’s bid for Danamon came as Indonesian banks seek greater
access to Singapore to profit from cross-border trade between
the two countries and the opportunity to manage assets for
wealthy individuals, according to Hans W. Vriens, managing
partner at Vriens & Partners Pte, a Singapore-based public
policy and political risk adviser.  Singapore is  Asia ’s largest wealth-management center, with
$512 billion in offshore wealth-management assets in 2010,
according to Boston-based  Boston Consulting Group . Indonesia was
Singapore’s third-largest trading partner in 2011 with total
trade amounting to  $61 billion , according to International
Enterprise Singapore, a government agency.  Indonesian regulators “are very frustrated that Indonesian
banks are restricted in their development in Singapore,” said
Vriens. “They’ve been pushing for reciprocity for some time,
but now they are using this deal as a lever to put pressure on
Singapore and push more forcefully.”  Asian Financial Crisis  Indonesia currently allows foreigners to own 99 percent of
a bank, a legacy of the Asian financial crisis when the nation’s
economy shrank 13 percent in 1998. The country was forced to
accept a $43 billion International Monetary Fund bailout as its
currency slumped, companies defaulted on debt and more than 80
banks failed or were nationalized or recapitalized.  “During the Asian financial crisis, when the Indonesian
banking sector went belly up, they were mostly sold off to
foreign banks,” said Vriens. “Now their own banks are trying
to expand overseas, but they are somewhat less welcome in other
countries.”  Bank Indonesia said on April 27 that it wouldn’t review
DBS’s bid until after it unveils new ownership rules for banks
and also reaches an agreement on access to Singapore. That
helped send Danamon’s shares to a two-day, 11 percent decline as
investors speculated the new regulations would cap ownership
stakes for foreign banks and scuttle the deal.  Majority Stake  Foreign banks and other investors from highly regulated
industries will still be able to own a majority stake in
Indonesia’s banks, central bank Governor Darmin Nasution said
last month. Nasution didn’t specify how high the ownership limit
may go.  Investors are projecting that foreign owners may be limited
to a maximum stake of about 50 percent, said  Daphne Roth ,
Singapore-based head of Asian equity research at ABN Amro. That
would mean DBS cannot make a tender offer for Danamon shares
Temasek doesn’t own, or even buy all of Temasek’s stake, Roth
said.  At  5,550 rupiah , the shares ended 21 percent below DBS’s
offer yesterday, the widest spread of any deal worth more than
$1 billion in the world’s  emerging markets , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Ownership by foreign financial institutions may be capped
at 40 percent,  Bisnis Indonesia  reported on May 23, without
saying where it obtained the information. Discussion of the
regulation is ongoing, Bank Indonesia’s Johansyah said, without
elaborating.  Currency Risk  Even if the deal is eventually approved, the risk that it
may take longer than originally projected has scared off some
foreign investors, who also face the risk of currency volatility
while they wait, said  Sam Hilton , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Asia Ltd. DBS has said it expects the
deal to close later this year. The rupiah has fallen 1.3 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  since the deal was announced.  “People are expecting pragmatism at the regulator level,
but the timing is so uncertain,” he said. “There is a
meaningful risk that it could get delayed beyond the second half
of this year.”  Another would-be acquirer of an Indonesian bank,  Malaysia ’s
 RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) , has been awaiting Bank Indonesia’s approval on
its 3.1 trillion rupiah takeover of PT Bank Mestika Dharma since
October 2009. Last month RHB said it expects a decision by June.  ‘Go Back Again’  Indonesia and Singapore have clashed over investments in
the past. In 2007, Indonesian competition regulators said
Temasek breached antitrust laws by using indirect stakes in PT
Telekomunikasi Selular, known as Telkomsel, and PT Indosat, the
country’s top two mobile-phone service providers, to fix prices.
It ordered Temasek to sell either stake within two years and the
fund paid a 150 billion rupiah fine.  For now, investors are betting DBS’s tender offer for
Danamon won’t proceed either, said Aldo Perkasa, who helps
manage about $2.3 billion at PT Mandiri Manajemen Investasi in
Jakarta.  “If the regulation is implemented and the tender offer
doesn’t go through, you go back again to holding the stock based
on its  fundamentals ,” he said. “That’s why the shares have
fallen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 