-- Delphi Open to More After Buying Supplier for $1 Billion
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-05-25T20:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/delphi-negotiating-to-buy-unit-from-bain-for-957-million.html
Delphi Automotive Plc (DLPH) , the former
parts unit of General Motors Co., said it is open to more
acquisitions after announcing yesterday it has entered
“exclusive talks” to acquire a unit of FCI Group from  Bain
Capital  for about 764 million euro ($958 million).  Chief Executive Officer Rodney O’Neal had said Delphi was
willing to spend as much as $1 billion on an acquisition, and
yesterday he didn’t rule out further deals. He’s also looking at
paying dividends, buying back shares and funding the growth of
the business, he said by telephone interview. Delphi had $1.4
billion of cash on hand at the end of March.  “We’ll look at a multitude of ways to get cash and value
back to the shareholders and acquisitions are just one,” O’Neal
said. “That’s still possible but there is nothing currently on
the radar screen. It’s possible, but unlikely.”  Delphi said the acquisition of the unit, which makes
electrical connectors, should add 24 cents a share to 2013
earnings, excluding acquisition-related costs. The unit, called
Motorized Vehicles Division, had revenue of 692 million euro and
would become part of Delphi’s electrical and electronic
architecture unit, which had revenue of $2.93 billion last year.  Acquiring the FCI Group unit would make Delphi a “strong
No. 2” in what is a fragmented market for connectors, O’Neal
said yesterday on a conference call with analysts and investors.
Delphi said it expects savings from the acquisition of $50
million next year, $70 million in 2014 and $80 million by 2015.  “This is a rare opportunity,” O’Neal said on the call.
“You don’t catch assets like this in this space.”  Back From Bankruptcy  Delphi, based in Troy,  Michigan , returned to profitability
in 2010 after cutting costs in bankruptcy and focusing on
selling fuel-injection systems and other car parts in faster-
growing countries such as  China . The Asia Pacific region
accounted for $2.46 billion of the company’s $16 billion in
sales last year, according to a regulatory filing.  Delphi may seek companies and technologies to augment its
powertrain, electronics and electrical connectors businesses,
O’Neal told reporters last month, when he said the company may
spend $1 billion on an acquisition.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services on March 16 raised its
corporate  credit rating  on Delphi to BB+, the highest non-
investment grade. Kevin Clark, Delphi’s chief financial officer,
said last month it may earn an investment-grade rating by next
April.  The company, registered in Gillingham, U.K., rose 2.7
percent to $28.45 at the close in  New York . The shares have
risen 32 percent this year.  Delphi has authorized a $300 million share buyback. As of
yesterday, the company said it had repurchased 3.6 million
shares for $105 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  