-- Demand for Business Equipment in U.S. Declines in April
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-24T20:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/demand-for-business-equipment-in-u-s-falls-for-second-month.html
Companies placed fewer orders for
computers, machinery and other capital equipment in April for a
second month, indicating manufacturing in the U.S. is cooling.  Bookings for non-military goods excluding aircraft fell 1.9
percent after dropping 2.2 percent in March, the first back-to-
back decline in a year, the Commerce Department said today in
 Washington . Other reports showed claims for jobless benefits
were little changed last week and consumer confidence hovered
near a four-month low.  “We can’t seem to really gather any steam,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in
New York. “From  consumer spending  to hiring to manufacturing
activity, everything is kind of moderate and OK but not
particularly spectacular or satisfying.”  Slowdowns in  Europe  and parts of  Asia  combined with a
cooling in business spending in the U.S. after the reduction of
a government tax credit this year may restrain manufacturing. At
the same time, Americans are buying cars at the fastest pace in
four years, creating a rebound in auto making that is rippling
through the economy.  Applications for jobless benefits decreased by 2,000 to
370,000 in the week ended May 19, in line with the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, according to
data from the Labor Department.  Confidence Improves  Consumer confidence  improved last week for the first time
in a month as falling gasoline prices helped stem dismay over
household finances, another report showed. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index was minus 42 in the seven days ended May
20 compared with a four-month low of minus 43.6 the prior
period. The measure slumped 12.2 points over the previous four
weeks, wiping out almost the entire gain for the year.  Stocks rose as Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said
 Greece  is likely to stay in the euro, and a majority of the
region’s leaders support issuing a joint bond to fight the debt
crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.1 percent to
1,320.68 at the close in  New York .  Even with a slowdown, the U.S. factories stand out as a
source of strength among global producers. Euro-area
manufacturing slumped to a 35-month low, while factories in
 China  contracted for a seventh straight time in May, according
to separate data today. Business confidence in  Germany  declined,
while Britain’s economic contraction in the first quarter was
deeper than previously estimated, other reports showed.  Durable Goods  Demand for all U.S.  durable goods , those meant to last at
least three years, rose 0.2 percent, today’s report showed,
matching the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Estimates of
the 75 economists surveyed ranged from a drop of 2.8 percent to
a 4.2 percent gain. The Commerce Department revised the March
reading to a 3.7 percent decline from a previously estimated 3.9
percent drop.  Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft
are considered a proxy for future business investment in items
such as computers, engines and communications gear.  Today’s report showed  shipments  of such goods, used in
calculating gross domestic product, decreased 1.4 percent in
April after rising 1.9 percent the previous month.  Economists at Morgan Stanley in New York reduced their
estimate for growth this quarter to a 2.4 percent annual rate
from 2.7 percent previously based on the slowdown in shipments
combined with figures showing a smaller-than-expected gain in
inventories.  Tax Benefit  The expiration at the end of 2011 of a tax incentive
allowing 100 percent depreciation on equipment purchases may
have prompted a slowdown in investments this year. The allowance
for 2012 is 50 percent.  Demand for transportation equipment climbed 2.1 percent,
reflecting a 5.6 percent increase in automobiles and parts,
today’s report showed.  The report also showed unfilled orders for durable goods
decreased 0.1 percent last month, while inventories climbed 0.3
percent.  The recovery in manufacturing will be slow, said  Mike
DeWalt , director of investor relations of  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the
largest maker of construction and mining equipment.  “Based on how poor 2009 was, how deep the recession was,
what happened in the relatively modest improvements in 2010 and
2011, there is a lot of recovery that needs to happen,” DeWalt
said at a May 23 conference. “It could be a quite extended
recovery, but maybe not as strong as in the past. But our
business as a signal has been actually positive.”  Purchasers’ Index  Manufacturing expanded in May at the slowest pace in three
months, another report today showed. An index based on a survey
of factory purchasing managers fell to 53.9 from 56 in April,
London-based Markit Economics said in a preliminary estimate
today. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. The report showed
production, orders and factory employment expanded at slower
rates this month.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  earlier this month reported fourth-
quarter sales projections that missed analysts’ estimates.  John
Chambers , chief executive officer of the computer-networking
equipment maker, said orders from bigger companies declined in
the period ended April 28 and it’s taking longer to sign large
deals with corporate customers.  “We are seeing a hesitant spending environment,” Chambers
said on a May 9 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  