-- Deutsche Telekom CEO Says T-Mobile USA Merger Is Option
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-05-24T14:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/deutsche-telekom-says-complete-sale-of-t-mobile-usa-unlikely-1-.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  Chief Executive
Officer  Rene Obermann  said a merger of the  T-Mobile USA  division
is an option, while ruling out revisiting a complete sale after
its fallout with  AT&T Inc. (T)  last year.  “We do not exclude any option for the T-Mobile unit in the
U.S., also not a merger,” Obermann told shareholers today at an
annual meeting in Cologne, Germany. “A complete sale is
unlikely. You understand that I can’t say more in public on T-
Mobile USA.”  The comments are the clearest yet on Deutsche Telekom’s
plan to hold onto the asset -- at least partially -- five months
after the $39 billion proposed sale of T-Mobile to AT&T
collapsed because of regulatory resistance. Deutsche Telekom  is
discussing a merger of T-Mobile with  MetroPCS Communications
Inc. (PCS) , with other options including an initial public offering,
people familiar with the matter said this month.  “We don’t see any value creation by T-Mobile USA if it
stays as a stand-alone company,” said Alexandre Iatrides, an
analyst at Oddo & Cie. in Paris. “The alternatives would be a
merger or some kind of network-sharing agreement with MetroPCS
or Sprint Nextel.”  Deutsche Telekom rose 1.1 percent to 8.80 euros in
Frankfurt as of 4:23 p.m., valuing the company at 38 billion
euros ($48 billion). Before today, the stock had declined 1.8
percent this year. MetroPCS fell 1.1 percent to $6.36 in  New
York . Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, added 1.2
percent to $2.49.  Capital Investment  Verizon Wireless and AT&T serve about 60 percent of U.S.
wireless subscribers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
T-Mobile accounts for 9.5 percent, and MetroPCS has 2.7 percent.
A combination of T-Mobile and AT&T would have created the
largest U.S. mobile-phone operator.  “The failed sale of Deutsche Telekom’s U.S. subsidiary is
a harsh setback in the attempt to clean up the pile of broken
glass of the failed expansion in foreign countries.”, Klaus
Kaldemorgen of DWS Investment GmbH, a unit of Deutsche Bank AG,
said at the Deutsche Telekom’s shareholders meeting today in
Cologne,  Germany .“One cannot discern a plan B for the U.S.
business.”  The uncertainty about T-Mobile’s future has affected the
unit’s business, Obermann said today.  Job Cuts  “We must find other ways to increase the return on our
capital, or to reduce our  capital investment ,” he said.
“Believe me, we are really working very hard on this, but we
are not going to make a snapshot.”  In the first quarter, T-Mobile increased profit as prepaid
clients helped offset the loss of 510,000 contract customers. T-
Mobile has announced at least 2,800 jobs in the past months as
it closes some  call centers  and reorganizes departments across
the company.  Deutsche Telekom is considering a stock-swap transaction
with MetroPCS Communications that would give the Bonn-based
company control over the combined entity, which would be
publicly listed, people familiar with the matter said this
month.  The German company also has hired bankers, including TAP
Advisors LLC, to sell a large portion of its network towers and
has said it will spend $4 billion over two years on the
construction of an LTE wireless network.  “We are investing in modernizing the networks and are now
developing an LTE network,” Obermann said today.  The CEO also wants to boost the German company’s sales in
strategic growth areas. Revenue from offerings such as mobile
data and services connecting home appliances will rise to 29
billion euros “in the coming years” from 15 billion euros in
2009, the company said.  Deutsche Telekom, with 58.7 billion euros in 2011 revenue,
last year lost its position as  Europe ’s biggest former phone
monopoly to  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA. (TEF)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  