-- Dewey’s Downfall Took Weeks; Clean-Up Looms for Years
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-24T17:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/dewey-s-downfall-took-weeks-clean-up-looms-for-years.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, a  law firm  with
103 years of history, collapsed in a matter of weeks. Cleaning
up the debris may take years.  A trickle of partner defections in March turned into a
torrent, with at least 250 of Dewey’s 304 partners having now
found new jobs. All five senior partners named to a new
chairman’s office in March have left, and the firm faces a
criminal probe. The staff at the firm’s Manhattan offices has
been gone for more than a week. Joff Mitchell of Zolfo Cooper, a
restructuring company, is running things.  Mitchell’s task is to wind the firm down while dunning
former clients for bills they have little incentive to pay in
full. That’s bad news for the firm’s creditors, including bank
lenders owed at least $75 million and bondholders owed $125
million or more. Other creditors range from partners who got pay
guarantees worth about $100 million to the firm’s janitors, who
have sued for about $300,000 in unpaid bills.  “The Dewey debacle has all the orderly progression of the
Great Chicago Fire,” said Ed Reeser, a former managing partner
for the Los Angeles office of Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal LLP,
who’s now a consultant. Including a bankruptcy, he said, “I
wouldn’t be surprised if the wind-down took a minimum of six to
seven years. It could take 10.”  2007 Merger  Dewey & LeBoeuf was the result of a 2007 merger between
 Dewey Ballantine , a firm dating from 1909 whose most famous
partner was two-time Republican presidential candidate Thomas E.
Dewey, and LeBoeuf Lamb Greene & MacRae. Created to enter the
club of powerhouse international law firms, Dewey collapsed amid
a culture characterized by a lack of disclosure and controls
where an inner circle of partners reaped most of the rewards.  “The combination of outsized debt and widely spread pay
guarantees divorced from performance put the firm in a situation
with almost zero margin for error,” said Bruce MacEwen, a
lawyer and law-firm consultant at Adam Smith Esq. LLC in  New
York . “Markets have a habit of punishing firms in that
posture.”  Dewey, which at the time of the merger had 1,300 lawyers,
offices in 25 cities and revenue of more than $900 million, is
the biggest U.S. law firm to fail, Reeser said. Other firms that
have collapsed in the past, including Brobeck, Phleger &
Harrison LLP in 2003 and Heller Ehrman LLP in 2008, are still
unwinding their debts and obligations, Reeser said.  Lawyers Hire Lawyer  More than 50 former Dewey partners have hired lawyer Mark Zauderer of Flemming Zulack Williamson Zauderer LLP to protect
their interests, he said. He’ll do such things as sue former
managers or defend his clients from lawsuits to claw back pay
they received, according to a person familiar with his hiring.  Since Dewey’s legal bills secure its bank loans, lenders
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  didn’t
immediately put Dewey in bankruptcy involuntarily because they
saw more chance of collecting the bills outside of court,
according to a person familiar with the firm’s finances. Bankers
now think a bankruptcy is needed to establish the pecking order
for creditors, the person said.  JPMorgan and Citigroup declined to comment on Dewey’s
financial position.  Dewey might have about $227 million of receivables
outstanding to pay its secured debt of $200 million or more,
MacEwan said. Trouble is, such receivable are only worth about
40 cents on the dollar, or in this case about $91 million, he
said.  “On a reasonable estimate, they don’t have enough to pay
their hard debts,” he said. Legal bills “are never worth 100
cents on the dollar, and they take a severe haircut if a firm is
failing, because clients don’t want to pay all of it.”  Bondholders  Dewey’s bondholders are mainly insurance companies,
including London-based Aviva Plc’s U.S. subsidiary, which owned
$35 million in Dewey bonds at the end of last year, said Aviva
spokesman Kevin Waetke. Aviva’s holding bonds was the biggest on
a list of insurance companies disclosing the investment in the
U.S., according to SNL Financial LC, which provides data to
financial companies. Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.
owned about $20 million of Dewey bonds, SNL said. Hartford has
since sold its bonds, said Thomas Hambrick, a spokesman for
Hartford.  Dewey’s privately placed bonds, which trade sparsely, were
quoted at 45 cents to 55 cents on the dollar earlier this month,
according to a May 3 report by CRT Capital Group LLC, which buys
and sells distressed debt, including Dewey’s.  Pay Guarantees  Some of Dewey’s former partners were the beneficiaries of
pay guarantees that totaled about $100 million a year for about
100 partners, including as much as $6 million a year for a
select few, said people familiar with Dewey’s finances. Those
guarantees are now worth no more than 8 cents on the dollar, if
anything.  For example, Dewey’s executive director, Stephen DiCarmine,
had a deal putting his salary and bonus at $2 million a year,
said a person who wasn’t authorized to comment on these matters
and didn’t want to be identified.  In a liquidation, partners with guaranteed pay become
unsecured creditors, ranking equal to, or below trade creditors,
said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy law professor at  Seton Hall
University  in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  Vendor Claims  Vendor claims against Dewey, also known as trade paper, are
being quoted at 5 cents to 8 cents on the dollar, said Joseph Sarachek, managing director of claims trading at CRT. That
category includes a unit of ABM Industries, which provided
janitorial services at Dewey’s offices at 1301 Avenue of the
Americas in New York, and sued the firm for about $300,000 in
unpaid bills, according to a complaint filed in New York State
Supreme Court in Manhattan.  The firm laid off 533 non-union workers at its Manhattan
building on May 15, according to a notice on the New York State
Department of Labor website. A lawsuit filed earlier by Vittoria
Conn, a former document specialist, claims Dewey fired workers
without giving them adequate notice required by federal and
state laws. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. sued the firm on
May 14 to take over pension plans covering 1,776 lawyers and
staff.  In a bankruptcy, Dewey partners could be sued for pay taken
when the firm was already insolvent, or for taking work begun at
Dewey to other firms, lawyers said.  Defections  Defections at Dewey reached around 50 in early April,
topping 120 in May. The five-man chairman’s office, announced on
March 26, featured the heads of the firm’s most profitable
groups, including  Martin Bienenstock , Rich Shutran,  Jeffrey Kessler  and Charles Landgraf. All four have now quit. A fifth
member,  Steven Davis , was ousted on April 29 after  Manhattan 
District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. started a probe into possible
wrongdoing at Dewey, according to an internal Dewey memo
obtained by Bloomberg.  Kessler went to Winston & Strawn LLP with about 20 other
Dewey litigation partners; Shutran, head of the corporate group,
took four partners to  O’Melveny & Myers LLP ; Proskauer Rose LLP
took Bienenstock, who ran the restructuring group, with five
colleagues, and Landgraf, known as a Washington lobbyist, joined
Arnold & Porter LLP.  Dewey was doomed as soon as partners, its main assets,
started walking out of the doors this year, said Chip Bowles, a
bankruptcy lawyer with Bingham Greenebaum Doll LLP in
Louisville,  Kentucky .  “When a law firm fails, it’s like a dam bursting,” Bowles
said. “It starts with a trickle of partners leaving, and what’s
coming in isn’t enough to cover expenses, and the trickle speeds
up,” he said. Soon, “the leaders start leaving and it bursts
and floods.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 