-- Djokovic Must Overcome Nadal for Dream of Matching Laver
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-25T14:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/djokovic-must-overcome-nadal-to-fulfill-dream-of-matching-laver.html
In his dreams, Novak Djokovic has
already lifted the French Open trophy to make it four major
tennis titles in a row. In reality, the No. 1-ranked player in
the world has to overcome six-time champion  Rafael Nadal  on his
favorite clay courts.  Djokovic didn’t lose in 2011 until June, took three major
titles and rose to the top of the sport. The Wimbledon, U.S.
Open and Australian Open champion from Serbia needs to win the
French Open, which starts May 27 on the clay courts of Roland
Garros in Paris, to become the first man to hold all four majors
since Australia’s  Rod Laver  swept the titles in 1969. Laver, who
also achieved the feat in 1962, and American  Don Budge  in 1938
are the only men to win four in a row in one calendar year.
 Serena Williams  held four majors at the same time by winning in
 Melbourne  in 2003.  “In my dream, I never looked at the scoreboard, but I did
remember myself lifting the trophy,” Djokovic, 25, said in an
interview at the Rome Masters. “I feel confident, I feel that I
have enough qualities to win against anybody on this surface on
a given day.”  Nadal is the 5-6 favorite at U.K. bookmaker  William Hill .
That means a successful $6 bet brings in $5 plus the original
wager. Djokovic is 2-1 and third-ranked  Roger Federer  is 8-1.  ‘Toughest Part’  “The toughest part is the very end, the back end of it,”
Federer, the winner of a men’s record 16 Grand Slam singles
titles, told reporters today at  Roland Garros . “It’s an amazing
achievement in itself to win three in a row.  Four in a row is
just another amazing step. I’ve been there twice. I was twice in
the finals, twice a couple sets away.”  Today at Roland Garros, Djokovic was drawn in the same half
as Federer, meaning he could meet the Swiss player in the semi-
finals. The Serb plays his opening round against  Italy ’s Potito Starace, while Federer drew  Germany ’s Tobias Kamke. Nadal faces
Simone Bolelli, also of Italy. The Spaniard may play  Andy Murray 
in the last four. The fourth-ranked Briton starts against
 Japan ’s Tatsuma Ito.  Djokovic, whose earnings from endorsements and prize money
last year are estimated at $18 million by Forbes, beat Nadal all
six times they played in 2011, and on the hard courts in
 Australia  in January. Still, Nadal has won 18 of the 32 times
they’ve played, including on the clay courts of Monte Carlo and
Rome this season.  Favorite  “Going into the French Open, it would be hard, no matter
what Djokovic has proven over the last year, to ever think that
Nadal wouldn’t be deserving of the favorite,” 1999 French Open
champion  Andre Agassi  said in a World Team Tennis conference
call a week before Roland Garros. “He is the Mount Everest of
that surface,” he added.  Nadal, 25, is tied with Sweden’s  Bjorn Borg  with a men’s
record six French Open singles titles. His only loss on the
Parisian red clay was in the fourth round in 2009. The Spaniard
has won 35 clay-court titles, the most of anyone currently
playing on the  ATP World Tour . Borg won 30 tournaments on the
slow surface before he retired at the age of 26 in 1983.  “The two greatest clay-court players in my opinion are
those two guys,” seven-time major singles champion  John McEnroe 
said of Borg and Nadal. If Nadal “wins a seventh one, people
are going to say he’s better, and there’s definitely an argument
for that.”  After narrowly losing the longest Grand Slam final in
history -- 5 hours, 53 minutes -- to Djokovic in Melbourne,
Nadal took February off to recover from a shoulder injury.
Although he struggled with a recurrence of knee tendinitis in
March, he’s found his form on clay this spring in  Europe .  Aggression  The left-hander ended his losing streak against Djokovic
last month in Monte Carlo before going on to win Barcelona. In
the finals of  Rome  this week, he beat Djokovic for the second
straight time.  “Winning is always important,” Nadal told reporters in
Rome. “When you lose, you play with less calm, you have a
little bit more doubts. I’m trying to play more aggressive than
last year. I said when I lost some finals that you cannot expect
to be perfect all the time. You don’t expect your opponent to be
perfect all the time, too.”  Djokovic heads to Paris without a title on clay this
season. He was beaten last year in the  French Open  by the 30-
year-old Federer of  Switzerland  in the semifinals, which ended
the longest winning streak since 1984 at 41 matches.  ‘Need This Challenge’  “It’s been an incredible run for me since January 2011,”
said Djokovic, who has yet to reach a Roland Garros final and
lost to Nadal in Paris from 2006-2008. “I cannot complain. I
want to be here, I need this challenge and now that I am here, I
am working really hard to stay where I am.”  Growing up in war-torn  Serbia  has made him into the player
he is now, Djokovic said. He turned 12 in 1999, when the then-
Yugoslav region was bombed for 11 weeks in a NATO campaign to
end former President Slobodan Milosevic’s crackdown on ethnic
Albanians in  Kosovo . During nightly air raids, Djokovic and his
family hid in the basement of his grandfather’s apartment in
Belgrade, the city where he practiced during the day.  Thirteen years later, Djokovic will carry his nation’s flag
at the opening ceremony of the  London Olympics  on July 27.  “All the successful athletes that come from my country
have had success mostly because of the mental strength, and
overcoming really difficult times in the last 20 to 30 years,”
Djokovic said. “We struggled very much with wars, embargoes and
sanctions, economic and political issues and inflation.”  Sampras Advice  Shortly after winning Wimbledon and taking the top spot
away from Nadal, Djokovic asked for advice from  Pete Sampras , a
14-time major champion who spent a record 286 weeks atop the
men’s rankings. Sampras told the  ATP’s website  he advised
Djokovic that his focus should be “just keeping it simple.”  “It was valuable, because I can hear from his own
experience what it took for him to stay No. 1 in the world for
six consecutive years and how he handled the pressures and
expectations and what he was doing,” Djokovic said. “I tried
to take the best out of it, and implement that into my own life
and career and see how it goes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 