-- LDK Leads Solars Rout as Manufacturing Shrinks: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-05-24T21:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/ldk-leads-solars-rout-as-manufacturing-shrinks-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities dropped in the U.S.,
led by solar companies, as data signaled manufacturing in  Asia ’s
biggest economy may contract for a seventh month in May.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. fell 1.3 percent to a four-day low
of 91.29 yesterday in New York.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s
second-largest maker of wafers, tumbled to a record low and
 Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the biggest solar-panel maker, sank
to the weakest level since October.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) 
extended declines as Chief Financial Officer Alex Xu said that
short sellers are targeting the Chinese  software developer .  China’s purchasing managers’ index shrank to a preliminary
reading of 48.7 in May, compared with a final 49.3 for April,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said yesterday. A number
below 50 shows contraction. In the euro area,  China ’s biggest
trading partner, an index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the services and manufacturing industries retreated
to 45.9 from 46.7 in April, London-based Markit said yesterday.  “Recent data including the HSBC PMI index showed China’s
slowdown may be worse than expected, helping cause a sell-off in
Chinese stocks,” Elena Ogram, who manages $50 million in
emerging-market assets, including Chinese stocks, at Bank am
Bellevue AG in Zurich, said by phone yesterday. “There is an
overall  risk aversion  in emerging-market stocks due to the
escalating euro zone crisis.”  China ETF Sinks  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., sank 1.5 percent to $32.74,
extending a three-day decline to a seven-month low. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of mainland stocks slipped 0.5 percent to a
three-day low of 2,350.97. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
U.S. shares added 0.1 percent to 1,320.68 after Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  said a majority of leaders at a European
Union summit backed joint European bonds.  China’s biggest banks may fall short of loan targets for
the first time in at least seven years as an economic slowdown
crimps demand for credit, three bank officials with knowledge of
the matter said. In the U.S., data showed companies placed fewer
orders for computers, machinery and other capital equipment in
April for a second month, indicating manufacturing in the U.S.
is cooling.  LDK Solar, based in Xinyu of China’s Jiangxi province, sank
15 percent to $2.59, the lowest close since it started trading
in 2007. The company said it is subject to a preliminary U.S.
tariff rate of 31 percent in a statement distributed by PR
Newswire yesterday.  “We will continue to deliver high quality PV products at
competitive prices to our customers in the U.S,” LDK’s
President Sam Tong said, according to the statement.  Suntech, Yingli  Suntech, based in Wuxi in eastern Jiangsu province, dropped
4.5 percent to $1.93, the lowest since Oct. 3. Yingli Green
Energy Holding Co., the sixth-largest silicon-based solar module
producer, slid 6.1 percent to $2.63, snapping a three-day gain.  The U.S. imposed tariffs of 31 percent to 250 percent on
Chinese solar-product imports, the Commerce Department announced
on May 17. Suntech was told to pay 31.22 percent.  “There are increasing noises that  Europe  may take the U.S.
template to impose tariffs on China solar imports as the region
is facing an economic slowdown,” said Hari Chandra Polavarapu,
an analyst who covers the Chinese solar industry at Auriga USA
LLC in  New York , by phone.  China’s gross domestic product grew 8.1 percent in the
first quarter, the slowest pace in more than two years. The 4.9
percent  exports  growth in April was lower than economists’
median forecast of 8.5 percent, while  industrial production  last
month grew the least since 2009 and also missed the median
estimate.  Qihoo Short Selling  Beijing-based Qihoo, which develops anti-virus and computer
desktop software, slipped 3.1 percent to $19.99 after sinking
3.6 percent a day earlier.  CFO Alex Xu said in a May 23 e-mail to analysts that short
sellers are targeting the company after it named Jue Yao as co-
CFO.  “I heard some short sellers are out there trying to make
the co-CFO appointment an issue,” Xu wrote in the e-mail.
“This is totally nonsense.”  The new appointment doesn’t imply any “change in
responsibilities between Ms. Yao and myself,” Xu also wrote.
“We are here to stay for a long time.”  American depositary receipts of  China Telecom Corp. (CHA) , the
country’s biggest fixed-line carrier, decreased 0.7 percent in
its second day of slide to $46.55, the lowest level since June
2010. The ADRs, each representing 100 underlying shares in the
company, traded 0.2 percent below its Hong Kong stock, the first
discount in four days.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the nation’s biggest online
book seller, retreated 3.5 percent to a four-day low of $5.55.
Hong Kong-based luxury-clothing seller  Michael Kors Holdings
Ltd. (KORS)  slid for the first time in four days, losing 2.4 percent to
$40.94.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  