-- Istanbul, Tokyo, Madrid Make 2020 Olympics List; Doha, Baku Cut
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2012-05-24T04:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/doha-baku-are-cut-from-list-of-candidates-to-host-2020-olympics.html
Istanbul, Tokyo and  Madrid  will
compete to host the 2020 Olympic Games after Doha and Baku were
dropped from the list of applicants.  The  International Olympic Committee   announced  the shortlist
yesterday at its executive board meeting in Quebec City. The
winner will be elected Sept. 7, 2013, in  Buenos Aires .  The three remaining candidates have 15 months to lobby for
votes and impress the IOC’s evaluation commission, which will
compile a detailed technical assessment and report on each bid
for IOC members to review in July 2013.  “We’re just at the starting line,” Shintaro Ishihara,
governor of Tokyo and chairman of the city’s 2020 council, told
reporters in the Japanese capital today. “The real battle
starts here.”  Tokyo , which is bidding for the second time in a row, is
the only shortlisted candidate to have hosted an Olympic Games,
in 1964. Madrid, which lost out to  Rio de Janeiro  in the final
round of voting for the 2016 Olympics, is bidding for a third
consecutive time and Istanbul a fifth time overall.  Doha, the capital of Qatar, and Baku in Azerbaijan were
rejected for a second straight time after failing to make the
final list of contenders to host the 2016 games. Qatar in 2010
won the bidding to stage the 2022 soccer  World Cup .  The IOC’s  working group report  on the five bids concluded
that Baku’s infrastructure and experience in hosting major
sports events “are not sufficiently developed at this stage to
deliver a successful  Olympic Games  in 2020.” Doha’s bid to host
the Olympics two years before the soccer World Cup “presents
significant challenges and risks,” the working group said.  ‘Take Stock’  “We will study the IOC report, reflect on its findings and
take stock as part of our own reflections regarding our ambition
to bring the Games to the  Middle East  for the first time,”
Sheikh Saoud bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani, general secretary of the
Qatar Olympic Committee, said in a statement.  The working group concluded that Tokyo “presents a very
strong application and offers athletes the conditions to be able
to compete at their best.”  Tokyo has put aside about 400 billion yen ($5 billion) to
ensure enough funding for the Summer Games and would build 20
new venues for the Olympics.  Japan , which built the Tokyo-Osaka
bullet train for the opening of the 1964 Games, would place 28
out of 31 competition sites within 8 kilometers (5 miles) of the
Olympic Village to ensure ease of travel.  “We have kept the best and improved the rest from our
previous bid,” Tokyo 2020 bid president Tsunekazu Takeda said
in a statement.  The IOC said the three candidate cities will need to submit
a new file with an “in-depth description of their Olympic
project” by Jan. 7 and prepare for visits by its evaluation
commission starting in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  