-- Don’t Let Polio, Nearly Dead and Gone, Come Back to Life
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/don-t-let-polio-nearly-dead-and-gone-come-back-to-life.html
Nothing demonstrates human
interconnectedness like the spread of infectious disease. Polio
is now endemic to just three countries: Afghanistan, Nigeria and
 Pakistan . In recent years, visitors have carried it back to 39
previously polio-free states.  Thus people everywhere have a stake in eradicating polio,
as we have stamped out  smallpox . Immunizing the last
unvaccinated children on the planet is an expensive and complex
undertaking, and worth it in the long run. The world not only
would be forever spared an incurable, crippling and often fatal
disease. It would also save a lot of money. If polio
transmission could be stopped by 2015, the net benefit from
reduced treatment costs and productivity gains through 2035
would be $40 billion to $50 billion, according to a  2010 study .  Thanks to the efforts of the  Global Polio Eradication
Initiative  -- which links national governments to the  World
Health Organization , the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control  and
Prevention,  Unicef ,  Rotary International  and the  Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation  -- progress has been tremendous. Polio cases
dropped from 350,000 in 1988 to 60 so far this year. In the same
period, endemic countries fell from 125 to three. Remarkably,
 India , which because of population density and poor sanitation
was considered the greatest challenge, had zero polio cases last
year.  Just as the eradicators were closing in, the job’s
completion has been threatened by a $1 billion funding gap in
the global initiative’s $2.19 billion budget. The shortfall was
caused by reduced government donations in an economic slowdown
and the unexpectedly high costs of eliminating the last pockets
of polio transmission.  To cope, the coalition has adopted an  emergency plan  that
prioritizes efforts in the three endemic countries while
reducing vaccinations in 24 other high-risk countries. The idea
is to stop the virus at the source and hope it doesn’t spread to
places where vigilance has been lightened.  The risk is that without sufficient resources, the whole
effort will break down. Controlling polio has taken an
orchestrated, $9 billion global effort, sustained by the goal of
exterminating the disease. If polio spreads again, the campaign
may lose its ability to raise significant funds. Worse, if the
eradicators lose their tight grip on the disease, polio experts
estimate there could be 200,000 new cases of the disease a year.  The U.S. has done its share to support the effort, its
government and charities having provided a quarter of the GPEI’s
funds.  China , which has experienced outbreaks of polio imported
from Pakistan, can afford to start contributing. The oil-rich
Gulf states could be more generous. Pakistan could pick up a
greater share of its costs, as Nigeria and India have. The world
has come too close and the stakes are too high for polio
eradication to fail.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Obama’s military
strategy ; Stephen L. Carter on  Romney and Harvard’s faculty
lounge ;  Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan Chase’s odd disclosure ;
 Michael Kinsley  on  China’s capitalist confusion ; William Pesek
on  Asia’s lessons for Europe ; Matthew Bryza on why  Azerbaijan
deserves a song contest ; Andrew Katzenstein and Scott Bowman on
 Eduardo Saverin’s tax implications .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 