-- Dow Awarded $2.16 Billion From Kuwait Over Aborted Deal
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-05-24T20:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/dow-awarded-2-16-billion-from-kuwait-over-aborted-deal.html
Dow Chemical Co., the largest U.S.
chemical maker by sales, said an arbitration panel ruled  Kuwait 
must pay $2.16 billion in damages because it canceled a 2008
agreement to buy a stake in the company’s plastics business.  The award by the London-based International Court of
Arbitration doesn’t include costs or interest and is final and
binding, Midland, Michigan-based Dow said today in a statement.
The timing of the payment and other terms of the agreement are
confidential, Nancy Lamb, a Dow spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “Anything north of $1 billion is a pleasant surprise,”
said  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic Global
Advisors. “I don’t think the market was giving Dow any credit
for an imminent settlement.”  Kuwait’s Petrochemical Industries Co., under pressure from
lawmakers, canceled a contract to form a 50-50 venture with
Dow’s plastics unit in December 2008. The failure of the so-
called K-Dow venture deprived Dow of a $9 billion payment during
the global financial crisis, almost derailed its 2009 purchase
of  Rohm & Haas Co. (DOW)  and forced the company’s first dividend cut.  “We are studying what legal action is available to
pursue,” Petrochemical Industries Chairwoman and Managing
Director Maha Mulla Hussein said in a telephone interview. The
company is a unit of state-owned Kuwait Petroleum Co.  Dow rose 3.4 percent to $31.55 at the close in  New York .  Special Dividend?  Dow’s award is more than twice what he expected and
represents $1.35 a share after estimated legal fees and taxes,
Laurence Alexander, a New York-based analyst at Jefferies & Co.,
said in a note. Alexander, who recommends holding the shares,
raised his 12-month target price to $33 from $32.  The win boosts the credibility of Dow Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  because he pursued compensation
for the aborted deal, Ahmed, who recommends buying Dow shares,
said in a telephone interview.  Dow may use the proceeds to refinance its higher interest
debt or buy back preferred stock, Ahmed said. Dow sold $3
billion of preferred shares yielding 8.5 percent a year to
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  to help pay for Rohm &
Haas. Lower interest costs would immediately boost earnings and
Dow may also pay a special dividend, he said.  It’s not yet clear how Dow will use the funds, Lamb said.
The company is focused on using cash to reward shareholders, pay
down debt and invest in growth projects, she said.  ‘Move Forward’  Dow cut its quarterly  dividend  to 15 cents a share from 42
cents in February 2009 following the collapse of the K-Dow deal.
Dow has since raised the payout to 32 cents a share.  Petrochemical Industries was to have paid $7.5 billion for
its stake in K-Dow, and the venture was to have paid each
partner $1.5 billion. Dow still has four joint ventures with
Kuwait that predate K-Dow, including Equate Petrochemical Co.
and MEGlobal, which make ethylene glycol, a chemical used in
antifreeze and polyester.  “We remain focused on continuing to move forward with our
transformation and profitable business partnerships -– both in
Kuwait and around the world,” Liveris said in the statement.  Law firm Shearman & Sterling LLP represented Dow in the
arbitration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  