-- Dudley Says Labor Market Slowdown Would Tilt To Easing
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-05-24T19:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/dudley-says-labor-market-slowdown-would-tilt-to-easing.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said he would favor additional
easing if the labor market falters or risks to growth were to
rise substantially.  “If the economy were to slow so that we were no longer
making material progress toward full employment, the downside
risks to growth were to increase sharply, or if deflation risks
were to climb materially, then the benefits of further
accommodation would increase in my estimation and this could
tilt the balance toward additional easing,” Dudley said in a
speech today in New York.  Dudley’s comments reinforce the view expressed at the April
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee , when several
policy makers said a loss of growth momentum or increased risks
to their outlook could warrant additional action, according to
minutes of the gathering. Policy makers have relied on
communications about their expectations for the path of  interest
rates  to provide additional stimulus after cutting their
benchmark rate to near zero in December 2008.  The FOMC said last month it anticipated keeping its
benchmark  rate  near zero until at least late 2014, reiterating a
plan announced in January.  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments declined last week, pointing to
gradual improvement in the labor market. Applications for
jobless benefits decreased by 2,000 to 370,000 in the week ended
May 19 from a revised 372,000 the prior week, Labor Department
figures showed today. The initial claims matched the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Job Growth  A Labor Department report on June 1 may show job growth
picked up this month. Employers probably added 148,000 workers
to payrolls in May, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, compared with a gain of
115,000 in April that was the smallest in six months.  Dudley endorsed the current FOMC policy, including the 2014
interest rate plan, while saying it could change in response to
economic data that differed from forecasts.  “As long as the  U.S. economy  continues to grow
sufficiently fast to cut into the nation’s unused economic
resources at a meaningful pace, I think the benefits from
further action are unlikely to exceed the costs,” Dudley said.  If more easing were needed, the Fed could further expand
its balance sheet with another asset-purchase program or extend
the duration of its Treasury portfolio, Dudley said.  Japan’s Experience  The policy lesson from  Japan ’s experience with deflation is
“that you want to be more aggressive,” Dudley said in response
to audience questions. The U.S. took that into account in
fighting the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression,
he said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent to
1,313.95 at 2:34 p.m. in New York, on signs  China’s economy  is
showing strains from  Europe ’s debt crisis. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note climbed 0.03 percentage point to
1.76 percent.  The U.S. economy is “continuing to slowly recover” and
employment growth has “picked up somewhat,” the New York Fed
leader said. While “growth will gradually strengthen” over the
next few years, lower  government spending  and Europe’s fiscal
crisis are likely to be drags, he said.  ‘Fiscal Cliff’  “Significant downside risks remain, especially those
related to the challenges in Europe and how the potential
‘fiscal cliff’ in the  United States  will be resolved after the
fall election,” he said. “Even if these risks do not
materialize, I anticipate only slow progress toward full
employment.”  Dudley said in response to audience questions that
government debt-service costs will “go up significantly” when
the Fed normalizes its policy and raises rates. That will make
fiscal challenges more difficult, though “that is not our
problem” because the Fed is focused on meeting its dual
objectives of  price stability  and maximum employment, he said.  Dudley spent most of his speech discussing the use of
monetary policy rules such as one formulated by Stanford
University professor  John B. Taylor . Such equations can be
useful in guiding policy, yet the Fed may need to be more
accommodative than such rules suggest because the damage from a
tighter policy is greater right now, he said.  Fed officials have discussed the usefulness of simple rules
as a guide for policy makers and the public. The idea has been
promoted by Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser in public
comments.  Dudley said in an interview with CNBC today that he doesn’t
currently see the need for additional action to ease policy.  Available Resources  “My view is that, if we continue to see improvement in the
economy, in terms of using up the slack in available resources,
then I think it’s hard to argue that we absolutely must do
something more in terms of the monetary policy front,” Dudley
said, according to a transcript of the interview posted on the
New York Fed’s website.  The Fed has kept its benchmark rate near zero since
December 2008 and bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of
asset purchases. A Fed program to extend the average maturity of
its portfolio holdings is scheduled to end in June, and that
probably won’t have a “big effect” on markets, Dudley said in
the CNBC interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  