-- Fed’s Dudley Says He Doesn’t See Need for More Easing Now
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-05-24T14:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/dudley-tells-cnbc-he-doesn-t-see-need-for-more-easing-now.html
William C. Dudley, president of the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York , said he doesn’t currently see
the need for additional action to ease policy.  “My view is that, if we continue to see improvement in the
economy, in terms of using up the slack in available resources,
then I think it’s hard to argue that we absolutely must do
something more in terms of the monetary policy front,” Dudley
said in an interview with CNBC, according to its website.  The Fed has kept its benchmark rate near zero since
December 2008 and bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of
asset purchases. The  Federal Open Market Committee  said last
month it anticipated keeping its benchmark rate near zero until
at least late 2014, reiterating a plan announced in January.  A Fed program to extend the average maturity of its
portfolio holdings is scheduled to end in June, and that
probably won’t have a “big effect” on markets, said Dudley,
who is also vice chairman of the FOMC.  The  New York  Fed chief said he’s a “little bit more
confident” the  U.S. economy  will keep growing and “a little
bit less worried” the country will succumb to Japanese-style
deflation. U.S. gross domestic product will probably expand at a
“pretty disappointing” 2.4 percent rate, he said.  “I’d like to see growth quite a bit stronger than that,”
Dudley said. “I’d like to see payroll gains in the 300,000 a
month for a while.”  Employment Gains Stalling  If the economy were to slow, with employment gains stalling
and inflation dropping, further monetary stimulus may be needed,
Dudley said. The unemployment rate’s decline to 8.1 percent in
April was partly due to a falling participation rate, he said.  “If downside risks from, say,  Europe  or the U.S. fiscal
cliff were to really intensify, then I think you’d absolutely
have to consider further monetary policy moves,” Dudley said.
Additional stimulus is “about cost and benefits,” he said.  Further expanding the Fed’s balance sheet would increase
its interest-rate risk and “could create anxiety among some
people that this might actually sow the seeds for future
inflation,” he said. “We have to take those expectations into
consideration as a potential cost of monetary policy.”  The Fed’s second round of asset-purchases, which ran from
November 2010 through June 2011, unleashed the worst political
backlash against the U.S. central bank in three decades.
Republicans from House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  to
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  warned that the measures risked
a sharp acceleration in prices.  Debt Crisis  With respect to the sovereign debt crisis in Europe,
regulators must ensure that the “U.S. banking system is in a
situation where it has capital and liquidity resources” so that
it “can handle significant shocks,” Dudley said. U.S. lenders
“have a lot more capital than they had a few years ago,” and
“very little exposure to peripheral Europe.”  European leaders clashed at a meeting yesterday over joint
debt sales as they called on Greece to stick with the budget
cuts needed to stay in the euro. The gathering was marked by new
French President  Francois Hollande ’s challenge to the German-
dominated deficit-cutting orthodoxy that has failed to stabilize
the euro area and led to speculation that  Greece  might be forced
out.  “If Europe were to evolve in a very bad direction, in
terms of the integration of Europe, the confidence of the
investor community in that integration story, then financial
markets could get very unsettled,” Dudley said. “That would be
another source of contagion back to the  United States .”  Stocks, Treasuries  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to
1,316.76 at 9:58 a.m. in New York, while yields on 10-year U.S.
Treasuries increased 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 1.76 percent.  Asked about whether the New York Fed missed JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s $2 billion trading loss, Dudley said regulators’ role is
to ensure banks have enough capital to withstand losses.  “It’s not to prevent the banks from making mistakes,”
Dudley said. “Our job is to ensure that the banks can survive
stress events and the financial system can continue unfettered
offering credit to households and businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  