-- Stevens Lawyers Engaged in Reckless Misconduct, U.S. Says
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-05-24T22:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/ted-stevens-prosecution-report-submitted-by-u-s-to-congress.html
Two federal prosecutors “engaged in
reckless professional misconduct” during the failed public
corruption case against deceased Alaska Senator  Ted Stevens  and
should be suspended without pay, the U.S.  Justice Department 
said.  Joseph Bottini, an assistant U.S. attorney in Alaska, and
James Goeke, a federal prosecutor in Washington state, should be
suspended for 40 and 15 days respectively, according to a
Justice Department letter sent to lawmakers today with a report
by its internal ethics watchdog. The Justice Department told the
lawyers of the planned disciplinary action yesterday and they
have an opportunity to appeal.  The department’s report, by its  Office of Professional
Responsibility , is the latest disclosure in a three-year
investigation that began in April 2009 when the Justice
Department said prosecutors withheld evidence that could have
helped Stevens’s defense.  “The punishment is a laughable and pathetic attempt to
fool the public,”  Brendan Sullivan  of Williams & Connolly LLP,
who represented Stevens, said in an interview. “The Justice
Department has demonstrated to all of us conclusively that they
cannot discipline their own.”  Case Dismissed  Justice Department employees “work hard to keep our
country and communities safe and to ensure that defendants are
brought to justice honorably and ethically,” Ronald Weich,
assistant attorney general for legislative affairs, said in the
letter to lawmakers. “Nonetheless, when there is even a single
lapse, we must, and we do, take it seriously.”  At the department’s request, U.S. District Court Judge
 Emmet Sullivan  dismissed the case against Stevens, a Republican,
who was convicted for omitting $250,000 worth of gifts,
including renovations to a house in  Alaska , from his financial
disclosure reports.  Stevens died in a plane crash in 2010 at age 86, two years
after losing his re-election campaign.  Bottini disregarded his obligation to disclose information
that may have been helpful to the defense, including
inconsistencies in statements made by the government’s key
witness, according to the report. Notes from an interview with
the witness, which the prosecution team denied remembering, were
found in a closet in the FBI’s Anchorage office.  Witness Information  Both Bottini and Goeke also should have disclosed
information from another witness who said Stevens wanted to pay
for all of the home renovations, according to the report.  The violations weren’t intentional, according to the
report.  The two prosecutors “engaged in professional misconduct by
acting in reckless disregard of their disclosure obligations,”
according to the report.  Bottini “undoubtedly made mistakes, mistakes he greatly
regrets,” said his  Washington  lawyer, Kenneth Wainstein, in a
Jan. 25 letter to the Justice Department commenting on a draft
version of the report. “In no way did Mr. Bottini act with
reckless disregard or poor judgment.”  The record doesn’t show that Goeke acted in “reckless
disregard or committed any other misconduct,” said Bonnie
Brownell, his Washington attorney, in a Jan. 23 letter to Deputy
Attorney General  James Cole .  ‘Poor Judgment’  Brenda Morris, a Justice Department lawyer who led the
trial team, “exercised poor judgment” by failing to supervise
the process by which the government reviewed documents to see if
any needed to be disclosed to Stevens. Chuck Rosenberg, an
attorney for Morris in Washington, declined to comment.  Morris and two other attorneys in the Public Integrity
Section who were on the prosecution team didn’t commit
professional misconduct, according to the report.  The Senate Judiciary Committee plans a June 6 hearing on
the report which Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat and
chairman of the panel, released on his website.  Senator  Lisa Murkowski , an Alaska Republican, said in a
statment that the report falls short.  “Rather than speak to the possibility of a larger, more
systemic problem inside the Justice Department, the Office of
Professional Responsibility wants us to believe that this was
the inadvertent errors of two lone actors,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  