-- EDF Chief Proglio Rejects Suggestions Hollande May Seek Ouster
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-05-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/edf-chief-proglio-rejects-suggestions-hollande-may-seek-ouster.html
Electricite de France SA  Chief
Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  dismissed suggestions that his
future at the world’s biggest nuclear operator is in doubt,
saying he sees his position as “eternal.”  “I don’t get the impression EDF is a company in difficulty
or that its management is being questioned,” Proglio, 62, said
yesterday after the state-controlled company’s annual general
meeting in Paris. “We have lots of projects.”  Proglio’s role at EDF could hang in the balance following
calls from new President  Francois Hollande  to curb the country’s
reliance on atomic power, UBS AG said last month. The CEO, who
was present at former President Nicolas Sarkozy’s election
celebrations in May 2007, has said pulling away from nuclear
energy would cost jobs and raise power prices for consumers.  EDF’s 58 French reactors provide more than three-quarters
of the nation’s electricity, a higher proportion than in any
other country. Proglio has headed the utility since November
2009 after being named by the former government.  “Of course I feel comfortable” heading EDF, Proglio said
yesterday. “I’m carrying on as if I was eternal. I’m making
decisions with this in mind.”  While Hollande’s advisers denied there’d be a witch hunt of
heads of state-controlled companies, his head of communication
in February questioned Proglio’s support of incumbent Sarkozy
and said his attitude during the campaign had been “totally
abnormal.”  Political Influence  “Is the head of EDF, who has been campaigning beside
 Nicolas Sarkozy , really respecting what should be the balance of
a top official or someone at the top of a big company?”
communication chief  Manuel Valls  said Feb. 22 on France Inter
radio. Proglio said yesterday he “hadn’t been listening.”  February also saw reports in Les Echos newspaper that
Proglio had tried to use political sway to have former
Environment Minister Jean-Louis Borloo installed as CEO of
 Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the water utility he headed before EDF.
Proglio had discussed ousting CEO Antoine Frerot with Sarkozy,
according to Liberation newspaper and Le Point.  Since Proglio took the helm at EDF, its share price has
dropped about 60 percent amid escalating costs for reactor
safety measures and extending the lives of nuclear plants. EDF
is also planning new reactors in the U.K.,  China  and elsewhere.  Changing Times  “Proglio should be more proactive in terms of focusing on
a new energy mix for EDF instead of just protecting nuclear
reactors,” Peter Wirtz, a utilities analyst at WestLB AG, said
by telephone from Dusseldorf. “Times are changing. Proglio
doesn’t seem to be the one to do this.”  Hollande, elected May 6, named his government last week.
The new Ecology and Energy Minister Nicole Bricq hasn’t yet
outlined her plans for EDF.  “The management team at EDF may be replaced,” Per Lekander, an analyst at UBS, said during the election campaign.
“A politician could be named.”  Proglio has also faced a backlash over an increase in
salaries for EDF’s senior managers, which Hollande’s team
described as “scandalous” before the election. Hollande
pledged to limit top pay at state-controlled companies to 20
times that of the lowest paid workers.  Proglio earned 1.6 million euros ($2 million) in 2011,
about the same as the previous year, and 60 percent more than
his predecessor  Pierre Gadonneix  earned in 2007, according to
the company’s annual reports. EDF’s operating staff earn an
average annual gross salary of 25,500 euros.  The chief executive’s salary is determined by “objective
criteria” including results and nuclear power production,
Proglio told shareholders yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  