-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise as Oil Gains, China Pledges Growth
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-24T21:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/emerging-market-stocks-rise-on-higher-oil-india-s-fuel-prices.html
Emerging-market stocks rebounded from
a five-month low as higher oil and  China ’s pledge to look at
policies favoring growth boosted shares of energy and material
companies.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 0.6 percent to
902.09 at the close in New York. Russian oil producers OAO
Surgutneftegas and OAO  Tatneft (TATN)  added more than 4.5 percent to
lift the Micex Index by the most in three months.  Brazil ’s
Bovespa fell 1 percent as clothing retailer B2W Companhia Global
do Varejo slipped to a record low. Indian stocks rallied in Asia
as Oil & Natural Gas Corp. surged the most since 2010.  Oil gained 76 cents to settle at $90.66 a barrel, rising
from a seven-month low, on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
It’s the fourth time prices have risen this month. China’s
leaders pledged to intensify “fine-tuning” of policies in the
second government statement in four days, signaling a commitment
to growth as domestic demand slows and  Europe ’s debt crisis
escalates.  “It’s an opportunity” after the recent drop in
developing-nation stocks, Geoffrey Dennis, global emerging-
market strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “The market will go higher
in the long term because the Chinese economy will get a lot
better in the second half with policy easing.”  The number of Americans filing first-time  claims  for
unemployment insurance payments was little changed last week,
adding to evidence the labor market recovery may have paused,
Labor Department data showed today.  Confidence Improves  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. improved last week for the
first time in a month. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was
minus 42 in the seven days ended May 20 after an almost four-
month low of minus 43.6 in the prior period.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, down 1.6 percent this
year, trades at 9.7 times estimated earnings, compared with 11.7
for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of advanced nations, which has added
0.8 percent in 2012.  The developing-nation gauge’s 14-day  relative strength
index , which tracks momentum by comparing closing prices with
daily trading ranges, was at 22.4 today, the 12th day below 30.
A reading of 30 or below is a signal some investors use to
indicate prices may be about to rise.  Russia, Brazil  Russia’s benchmark gauge rallied 2.2 percent, the most
since Feb. 24 after it fell 3.4 percent to the lowest level
since July 2010 yesterday. OAO Taftneft climbed 5.8 percent to
lead advances in the index. Surgutneftegas  jumped  4.6 percent.  B2W Varejo retreated 6.1 percent to lead declines on
Brazil’s Bovespa, which declined 1 percent in  Sao Paulo . Shares
of B2W fell to 6 reais, the lowest level since the company went
public in 2005. MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, an iron-ore
producer, slipped 3 percent.  South Africa ’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  jumped 0.5
percent, recovering from its biggest sell-off in seven weeks.
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the country’s biggest producer of the
metal, rose 3.7 percent.  Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  jumped 0.6 percent after its biggest
fall in more than six months.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , the country’s
largest lender, rose 1.1 percent. The Czech Republic’s PX index
added 0.1 percent while  Turkey ’s ISE National 100 Index slid 1.5
percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.5 percent after a
private survey showed the nation’s manufacturing may shrink for
a seventh month. The 48.7 preliminary reading for a purchasing
managers’ index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics today compares with a final 49.3 for April.  India  Indian stocks rallied the most in  Asia  amid speculation the
government will take more steps to curb the region’s worst
current-account deficit after allowing the first increase in
gasoline prices in almost seven months. Oil & Natural Gas added
5.9 percent.  The BSE India Sensitive Index gained 1.7 percent, the
steepest climb since March 30.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  has pledged to restrict
the subsidy program that spans diesel to fertilizers to less
than 2 percent of gross domestic product this fiscal year as he
tackles a shortfall in government finances.  Standard & Poor’s 
last month lowered the nation’s rating outlook to negative from
stable, citing slowing economic growth and a widening deficit.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 400, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  