-- Emirates to Stay Profitable, Stick With Expansion, Antinori Says
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-24T14:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/emirates-to-stay-profitable-stick-with-expansion-antinori-says.html
Emirates, the world’s largest airline
by international traffic, said it will remain profitable this
year and stick with an expansion strategy even as high jet-fuel
prices and fluctuations in the value of the euro clip earnings.  “We’re monitoring currencies and the oil price but we don’t
intend to change our growth strategy,” executive vice-president
for passenger sales Thierry Antinori said in an interview.
“Emirates was profitable for the last 24 years and I don’t know
anybody in the company not having the same target this year.”  Dubai-based Emirates said May 10 that net income fell 61
percent to 2.31 billion dirhams ($630 million) in the 12 months
ended March 31, without providing an outlook for the current
fiscal year. The carrier will add 31 new jets and 200 pilots in
2012 as it targets fresh markets, Antinori said today in Lisbon,
where it will commence flights from its Gulf hub on July 9.  “We’re not using the crisis to save on the product,” the
executive said. “Emirates is successful because we have one of
the most modern fleets in the world.”  Emirates, which serves 123 destinations, will continue with
its strategy of shunning the three global airline alliances and
has no acquisition plans, Antinori said.  That would rule out a bid for  Portugal ’s TAP SGPS SA, which
the government plans to sell this year to raise funds under the
terms of a 78 billion-euro ($98 billion) bailout from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  “We’re not interested in the acquisition of stakes in
airlines,” Antinori said. “Our strategy relies on organic growth
by the acquisition of planes, not airlines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  