-- Merkel Gives Ground on Austerity in Bid to Pass Crisis Bills
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-05-24T16:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/merkel-pressed-on-debt-sharing-as-opposition-chafes-at-austerity.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  gave ground
to the opposition in a bid to pass her debt crisis-fighting
measures in the German parliament, agreeing to consider measures
to spur growth and a proposal on debt sharing in the euro area.  Leaders of Merkel’s coalition met with opposition party
chiefs in Berlin today to try and secure the two-thirds majority
needed for parliamentary approval of  Europe ’s budget treaty and
associated legislation setting up a permanent rescue fund.  They agreed to meet again on June 13 “to clear up the open
questions,” including constitutional aspects and “what a
strategy for growth would look like,”  Volker Kauder , the floor
leader of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , told reporters
outside the Chancellery.  Merkel called the Berlin meeting in a bid to assuage
opposition anger at her austerity-first stance during the debt
crisis and to secure passage of the fiscal pact and the rescue
fund by parliament’s summer recess on July 6. She hosted the
talks after clashing with fellow European Union leaders last
night over her refusal to consider joint euro-area bonds.  While Kauder said the opposition agreed with the government
that euro bonds “are not up for discussion,” the two sides
will “exchange studies” on the debt-sharing proposal.  The main opposition Social Democrats and their Green Party
allies raised a proposal floated by Merkel’s own council of
economic advisers for a “European redemption fund” which
involves common liability for sovereign debt exceeding the 60
percent of gross domestic product rule.  Removing Pressure  “Only if the pressure is removed on  interest rates  in the
crisis states do we have a chance to spur economic growth,”
 Juergen Trittin , co-leader in parliament of the Greens, told
reporters. “That’s why we have been so vehemently behind a
redemption fund in these talks.”  Germany ’s opposition, buoyed by French President  Francois Hollande ’s challenge to Merkel’s deficit-cutting orthodoxy, is
stepping up calls for growth-boosting measures and other steps
to be added to her budget consolidation demand. While the SPD
and Greens have backed Merkel’s crisis-fighting in parliament so
far, they are threatening to withhold support for legislation
setting up the fiscal pact signed by 25 of the EU’s 27 leaders.  Both parties shifted their focus from euro bonds to the
 redemption fund  first mooted in November by Merkel’s panel of
economic advisers, known as the wise men. The fund, backed by
euro member states’ gold reserves, would be worth 2.3 trillion
euros ($2.9 trillion) and help governments scale back
outstanding debt to below 60 percent of economic output. Limited
to 25 years, it would be accompanied by a pledge by states to
anchor debt limits in their constitutions and commit to economic
reforms.  ‘Take a Look’  The proposal cut little ice at the time with Merkel, who
said that while the government would “take a look at it,” the
plan raised “constitutional questions, questions about what to
do with others’ debts, what it means for debt management.”  While no “concrete results” were achieved today, SPD
Chairman Sigmar Gabriel said that he had the impression “the
government’s blockade on growth has been broken.”  “We pointed out once again that the five wise men economic
panel proposed a redemption fund to the government, which would
be a good opportunity to break away from the rigid debate over
euro bonds,” Gabriel said. “We heard from our European friends
yesterday that that they regard it as a good proposal. Still,
the government is so far being extremely reticent with respect
to this proposal too, even if not rejecting it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  