-- Erste Offers Structured Products in Gold, Oil in Turkey
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-05-24T15:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/erste-offers-structured-products-in-gold-oil-in-turkey.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  is planning to
offer structured products in the form of lira-denominated
certificates to be listed on the  Istanbul Stock Exchange , said
Ingo Bleier, head of  investment banking .  Vienna-based Erste will be the first to sell the products,
labeled “turbo certificates,” in the Turkish market, provided
the market regulator approves its application, Bleier said in an
interview in Istanbul today. The value of the certificates will
be based on changes in the value of the German  stock index , oil
and gold.  Erste is among European and U.S. banks that entered the
Turkish market over the past decade to take advantage of
economic growth that’s more than three times the average in the
European Union. Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is planning
to turn Istanbul into a financial center to rival cities such as
Dubai.  “We are bringing more variety to the Turkish market
through these certificates,” he said. “These will add depth to
the market and make it more interesting.”  Bleier said he expects 20 to 30 million euros of trading
volume in the certificates in Turkey in the first six months
after they are issued. He expects the volume to exceed 100
million euros within two years.  Turbo certificates allow investors to benefit from short-
term market fluctuations. The certificates track the underlying
asset and their value develops according to the asset’s price.  Bleier also said Erste is planning to focus on corporate
finance in its growth strategy.  Erste remains bullish on the economy, expecting a sharp
drop in growth this year though seeing it picking up again in
2013, he said.  Erste expects  Turkey ’s economy to expand 3.5 percent in
2012 and 4.5 percent in 2013, Bleier said. The economy may grow
3.3 percent in 2012 and by 4.6 percent next year, the Paris-
based OECD said on May 22 in its annual economic outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  