-- ETFs Lure Bearish Bets as JPMorgan Spoils Swaps: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-05-24T15:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/etfs-lure-bearish-bets-as-jpmorgan-spoils-swaps-credit-markets.html
Distortions in credit-default swaps
prices fueled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. trader Bruno Iksil are
pushing investors to exchange-traded funds to make bearish bets
on  junk bonds .  Traders  sold short  an unprecedented 6.86 million shares of
BlackRock Inc.’s $15.1 billion iShares iBoxx High Yield
Corporate Bond Fund at the end of April, about 4 percent of the
biggest junk-bond ETF’s outstanding shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s up more than three-fold from the
low this year in mid-February. About 12.6 million shares of
State Street’s  junk-bond ETF , the second-largest, were sold
short, up from 7.78 million shares in March.  Investors are seeking a more effective hedge against
falling debt prices as the cost to protect against declines
using swaps exceeded relative yields on the debt by the most in
three years, Barclays Plc data show. Market participants have
blamed trades by Iksil for disrupting prices in the credit-swaps
market, typically investors’ first choice for hedging.  “The ETFs were able to maintain a closer correlation to
the cash index” than swaps, UBS AG strategists led by George Bory said in a May 22 report. “It is quite likely that this
came about as a result of recently publicized outsized trades
in” credit-swaps indexes, they said.  Fast and Discreet  Fixed-income ETFs allow anyone from banks to retirees fast
and discreet access to speculative-grade bonds without directly
owning them. Unlike mutual funds, whose shares are priced once
daily, ETFs are listed on exchanges and are bought and sold like
stocks. As trading has increased in the funds, the cost to
borrow shares in order to sell them short has dropped, the UBS
analysts said.  The volume of short selling in the three-biggest junk-bond
ETFs has increased 92 percent since the beginning of March,
according to the UBS analysts.  “If the CDS market were functioning normally, then that
would be the easiest way” to hedge, said  Sabur Moini , a  money
manager  who helps oversee about $2.5 billion of high-yield
assets at Los Angeles-based Payden & Rygel.  Elsewhere in credit markets,  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  is
planning a six-part, $10 billion debt offering to help finance
its $16.5 billion acquisition of  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  The market for
corporate borrowing via  commercial paper  increased to more than
$1 trillion outstanding for the first time this year, and a
gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk fell for a second day.  Swap Spreads Fall  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
 debt market  stress, fell 1.5 basis point to 33.25 basis points
as of 11:45 a.m. in New York. The gauge, which reached a four-
month high of 39.13 on May 15, narrows when investors favor
assets such as corporate bonds and widens when they seek the
perceived safety of  government securities .  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 0.9
basis point to a mid-price of 117.4, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The index has dropped from a five-month
high of 123.4 on May 18.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings declined 6.4 to 174.5.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  United Technologies Sale  United Technologies  will offer floating-rate securities due
in 2013 and 2015, as well as three-, five-, 10- and 30-year
fixed-rate notes, the maker of Sikorsky helicopters and Pratt &
Whitney engines said in a regulatory filing. The offering, the
company’s first in more than two years, consists of $10 billion
of senior unsecured notes,  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement.  The aerospace and building-systems company will use
proceeds to help fund its acquisition of  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based supplier Goodrich that is expected to close mid-
year, Hartford, Connecticut-based United Technologies said in
the filing. Proceeds may also be used for general corporate
purposes.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
rose $14.9 billion to $1.009 trillion in the week ended
yesterday, the  Federal Reserve  said today on its website. That’s
the highest level since $1.03 trillion on Sept. 21, while the
fourth straight weekly increase is the longest streak since the
period ended Feb. 8.  Ford Most Active  Bonds of Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford, the automaker
lifted to investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service this
week, were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers, with 52 trades of $1 million or more as
of 11:32 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Exchange-traded funds are luring bigger investors as they
account for a greater portion of the high-yield debt market.
ETFs have attracted $6.5 billion in 2012, accounting for 28
percent of all flows into the debt during the period, according
to JPMorgan analysts led by  Peter Acciavatti  in  New York .  High-yield, high-risk, or junk bonds and leveraged loans
are graded below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at Standard
& Poor’s and Fitch.  The three biggest U.S. junk-bond ETFs hold $25.6 billion of
debt, compared with $43.6 billion of all corporate securities
with maturities greater than a year held by the 21 primary
dealers authorized to trade directly with the Federal Reserve.  ETFs Morph  “It’s morphed into more of an institutional tool,” said
Bonnie Baha, head of global developed credit at DoubleLine
Capital LP in  Los Angeles , which oversees $34 billion. “The
whole idea of investing in a corporate bond is, ‘Are you going
to get your money back?’ Now it’s not just, ‘Are you going to
get your money back?’ but ‘Are you going to get your money
out?’”  BlackRock’s fund has lost 2.5 percent this month, compared
with 2.1 percent loss on the  iBoxx Liquid High Yield Index ,
which it seeks to replicate, or a 0.4 percentage point
difference, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Short-selling accelerated as the gap between a benchmark
credit-default swaps index tied to junk bonds and relative
yields on the debt soared to 85 basis points last week, the
highest in three years, Barclays strategists said in a May 22
presentation to clients.  Iksil Trades  “We believe part of this short position reflects large
scale institutional hedging by means of the ETFs rather than the
at the time heavily technically distorted CDX indices,” the UBS
analysts wrote, referring to trades by JPMorgan’s chief
investment office.  Bloomberg News first reported April 5 that JPMorgan’s
Iksil, a trader in the bank’s chief investment office, had
amassed positions that were so large he was driving price moves
in the $10 trillion market for credit swaps indexes tied to
corporate creditworthiness.  The bets roiled price relationships that affected
instruments used to hedge hundreds of billions of dollars of
fixed-income holdings, market participants, who asked not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to discuss the
activity, said at the time.  Some of the positions included bearish bets on high-yield
bonds, the market participants said.  ‘Closer Correlation’  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  hosted a
conference call May 10 to disclose what he called “egregious”
and “self-inflicted” mistakes in the chief investment office,
which manages a $381.7 billion portfolio for the biggest  U.S.
bank  by assets. The loss occurred in London under multiple
traders, according to an executive at the bank, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity.  Aware of the market-distorting trades, dealers “relied
instead on the ETFs to more accurately hedge trading books as
the ETFs were able to maintain a closer correlation to the cash
index,” the UBS strategists said in the note this week.  High-yield bonds in the U.S. have dropped 1.34 percent this
month as concern mounts that  Greece  will exit from the euro.
That’s the biggest loss since November, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  Investors have been drawn to junk-bond ETFs as a way to
short the debt as ETF shares are exchanged in greater volumes.  “The bigger and more liquid it is, the easier to short,
the cheaper to short,” Payden & Rygel’s Moini said. “It’s
difficult to do it with high-yield cash bonds. In the cash
market it’s always been sort of difficult and expensive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  