-- EU Chiefs Clash on Euro Bonds as Crisis Summit Bogs Down
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-05-24T06:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/eu-chiefs-clash-on-bonds-amid-call-greece-keep-cutting.html
European leaders clashed over joint
debt sales as they called on  Greece  to stick with the budget
cuts needed to stay in the euro and offered no immediate relief
for recession-wracked Spain.  The 18th summit in more than two years of crisis fighting
was marked by new French President  Francois Hollande ’s challenge
to the German-dominated deficit-cutting orthodoxy that has
failed to stabilize the euro area and led to speculation that
Greece might be forced out.  “We had a not unheated discussion on euro bonds,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters in
Brussels early today after six hours of talks. Joint borrowing
“didn’t find much support, particularly in the German speaking
area, but found a certain enthusiasm in the French speaking
area.”  The euro declined against the dollar amid concern that
divisions between  France  and Germany will frustrate the search
for answers. The common currency traded at $1.2572 as of 7:48
a.m. in Brussels, down 0.1 percent on the day, after yesterday
touching $1.2545, the lowest since July 13, 2010. Futures on the
 Standard & Poor’s 500  fell 0.3 percent. Yields on German five-,
10- and 30-year bonds dropped to record lows as investors sought
a haven.  ‘Building Blocks’  Leaders gave European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  the
job of sketching out “building blocks” for a more integrated
euro area by the next summit on June 28-29 -- after a Greek
election that may trigger the country’s withdrawal from the
currency.  The 2012 institutional rethink comes after the setup of two
rescue funds, a “Euro Plus Pact” to promote competitiveness, a
“European semester” to coordinate economic policies,
unprecedented European Central Bank bond purchases, two
overhauls of fiscal rules and the drafting of a German-inspired
deficit-limitation treaty.  Van Rompuy ’s examination will extend to a possible cross-
border deposit insurance scheme to underpin a banking system
pockmarked by bad debt, notably on  Europe ’s crisis-hit
periphery.  Proposals for a centralized “bank resolution” fund made
little headway in the aftermath of the Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. crisis of 2008, as each European country guarded its banks
and refused to subsidize failing institutions elsewhere.  German Difficulties  “These ideas of stricter banking supervision and
resolution were only mentioned, we hadn’t a real discussion,”
Van Rompuy said of the leaders’ debate.  Euro bonds served as a lightning rod, with AAA rated
countries such as Germany and  Finland  saying that joint
borrowing would force up their own interest rates and give
deficit-prone states an incentive to go on spending.  Germany  has “huge difficulties” with euro bonds,
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said. On his ninth day in office and at
his first European summit, Hollande backed the idea in a
demonstration that the leaders of Germany and France are no
longer on the same page in managing the crisis.  “Some countries are totally hostile, some can imagine them
in the future, some can imagine doing them much more quickly,”
Hollande said. “I was not alone.”  The leaders dedicated a separate statement to Greece, set
for a new election on June 17 after voters on May 6 catapulted
an anti-bailout party into second place and denied a majority to
the two parties that have dominated the country since the 1970s.  Greek Commitments  Next month’s revote looms as a referendum on whether Greece
stays in the euro, since an Athens government that goes back on
austerity would be cut off from the next installments of the 240
billion euros ($302 billion) in aid pledged since 2010.  “We want Greece to remain in the euro area while
respecting its commitments,” the leaders said in the statement.
“We expect that after the elections, the new Greek government
will make that choice.”  Greece came up at the end of the summit that focused on
growth-boosting measures, and an official said there was no
discussion of  Spain , the euro zone’s fourth-largest economy.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is fighting the triple
threat of recession, higher-than-targeted deficits and a banking
system hobbled by about 184 billion euros of what the Bank of
Spain calls “problematic” assets that plummeted when the real-
estate bubble burst.  The Spanish government, making the fourth attempt in three
years to shore up banks, has so far ruled out tapping rescue
funds since that would tie Spain to the same sort of conditions
as Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , the three countries in formal
aid programs.  Rajoy’s Plea  Rajoy pleaded with the central bank to restart a bond-
purchase program that it mothballed in the face of German-led
opposition. So far, the ECB has stockpiled 212 billion euros of
 government bonds  to cap  interest rates  in hard-hit countries.  “I insist it is up to the ECB to take this decision that
it has already taken in the past,” Rajoy said. “This question
has a huge importance at the moment, much more than the future
design of the European Union.”  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose 12 basis points to 6.20
percent yesterday. Spain pays 482 basis points more than Germany
to borrow, an extra cost that Rajoy said will nullify the
savings derived from spending cuts. The  risk premium  reached a
euro-era record of 490 basis points on May 17.  Asked whether the Spanish leader made that appeal during
the meeting, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said: “No he didn’t.
This liquidity could be provided by other sources as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  