-- EU’s Plans to Curb CO2 Supply Is Legitimate, Lawyer Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-05-24T10:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/eu-s-plans-to-curb-co2-supply-is-legitimate-lawyer-says.html
European Union law  allows regulators
to delay sales of some permits in the bloc’s carbon market as of
next year, equipping them with a tool to curb oversupply,
according to a leading emissions lawyer.  In any proposal to postpone carbon auctions the European
Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, would need to define the
quantity of allowances to be sold at a later date, the
distribution per member state and possibly a new timeline for
introducing them to the market, according to Mihalis Kritikos,
an expert in the EU law at White & Case legal practice in
Brussels. The  commission  has said it’s working on a draft
measure to delay auctions after carbon prices slumped to a
record low earlier this year.  “There is nothing in the Emissions Trading System
directive that prevents the implementation of a measure to set
aside allowances by postponing the auctioning of some of the
allowances,” Kritikos said by e-mail today.  Comments by Kritikos, who worked as a legal adviser to the
commission before joining  White & Case  and has taught EU law
courses at the  London  School of Economics, contradict the
analysis of the Polish government, according to which the
European legislation doesn’t allow withholding carbon permits
from the market.  The commission is planning to present to  member states  “in
the not-too-distant future” a review of the carbon-permit
auctioning regulation to postpone some sales of allowances in
the early phase of the next trading period that runs from 2013
to 2020, Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said earlier this
month. The draft measure could be submitted to EU governments by
the middle of July, with a view to a vote in September,
according to an EU official, who declined to be named.  Short-Term Fix  A delay in the auctioning rate would be a short-term fix to
the EU emissions trading system, also known as the ETS, and
would amount to a temporary withholding of allowances, without
changing the 2013-2020 pollution cap. Environment lobbies and
some members of the  European Parliament  have also urged the EU
to create a permanent set-aside of allowances that would be
subsequently canceled at the end of the next trading period.  “Setting aside the allowances is justified either as a way
of tightening the cap in support of the transition to higher
greenhouse-gas reduction levels, or to adjust the cap to the
consequences of the implementation of renewables and energy
efficiency targets or simply to safeguard the efficiency of the
system, certainty and predictability,” Kritikos said.  Headline Goal  Under the European law, the bloc’s headline goal is to
reduce  greenhouse gases  by 20 percent in 2020 compared with 1990
levels. The 2020 cap for utilities and manufacturers in the
emissions trading system, the key tool of EU climate policy,
will be 21 percent below 2005 discharges.  The emission caps that the EU emissions trading system
imposes on more than 12,000 facilities owned by manufacturers
and utilities were set before the debt crisis and economic
slump. The program will be oversupplied by permits covering
around 1.1 billion tons of CO2 by 2012, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance. This surplus may be transferred into Phase
3.  EU permits for December have lost 61 percent in the past
year on concern that the excess of allowances will be weighing
on the market for most of the next trading period, also known as
Phase 3. The contract fell 1.2 percent to 6.72 euros a metric
ton as of 9:51 a.m. on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Temporary Delay  The EU is moving toward auctioning allowances in the third
phase of the ETS after giving most of them for free in the first
two trading periods since 2005 to companies including  Germany ’s
biggest steelmaker  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and  Italy ’s biggest utility
 Enel SpA. (ENEL)  Under the current rules, relatively more allowances
will be sold to the market in the early part of the next phase
and relatively fewer in the later years, according to Hedegaard.  While a temporary delay to some carbon sales could be done
by revising the EU auctioning regulation in the so-called
comitology procedure, any permanent cancellation of permits
would require a revision of the EU ETS directive, which lays the
foundation for carbon trading in the region.  Both changing the regulation and the directive require
qualified majority support from member states, yet amending the
ETS law to change the number of permits in the cap-and-trade
system could take more than a year in a politically contentious
step also involving the European Parliament.  The number of allowances in the ETS will also become the
subject of talks when the EU discusses longer-term greenhouse-
gas targets, Hedegaard said last month. According to a strategy
paper published by the commission in 2011, the cheapest scenario
for  Europe  would be to cut emissions by 40 percent in 2030 and
60 percent in 2040 compared with 1990 levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  