-- UN’s Ban Sees Industry Advancing Climate Treaty in Rio
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-05-25T12:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/eu-says-china-leads-nations-blocking-un-climate-treaty.html
(Corrects headline to remove climate treaty in story
published May 24.)  The  United Nations  will pursue
partnerships with global industry leaders to help drive clean
energy in  Rio de Janeiro  next month as governments struggle to
find common ground on climate change, Secretary General Ban Ki- moon said.  Corporate boards can implement sustainability policies
faster than countries by committing to investments in renewable
energy, clean water and poverty-eradication programs in a way
that protects national economies, Ban said today at a lunch with
reporters in  New York .  More than 2,000 corporate executives are expected to attend
the UN’s  Rio+20 Conference on Sustainable Development  that
begins June 22, marking the 20th anniversary of the first global
gathering in Rio de Janeiro that eventually spawned the  Kyoto
Protocol  treaty to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions.  “There will be a number of agreements to come out of this
meeting because there’s now a coordinated effort by companies
and investors to focus on sustainability issues,” Robert Orr,
assistant secretary general for policy planning, said today in
an interview at the New York event. “That’s the biggest
difference between Rio ’92 and Rio ’12.”  Envoys from more than 190 governments met in Durban,  South
Africa , in December and agreed to discuss replacing by 2020 the
Kyoto Protocol, which sets emission targets only for developed
states. They plan to sign a legal deal in 2015.  The UN talks seek to curtail greenhouse-gas emissions and
limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit) since the industrial revolution.  “I’m going to establish an expanded partnership facility
in the secretariat,” Ban said. “Because of this economic
crisis, I think  sustainable development  is the answer. Green
economies can address all of the global challenges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  