-- European Union Ends Anti-Subsidy Duties on Indian Screw Makers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-05-24T13:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/european-union-ends-anti-subsidy-duties-on-indian-screw-makers.html
The European Union removed
provisional tariffs as high as 16.5 percent on screws and bolts
from  India , saying Indian subsidies didn’t cause injury to EU
producers such as  Italy ’s Bontempi Vibo SpA.  The EU closed a probe into whether Indian manufacturers of
stainless-steel fasteners received trade-distorting  government
aid , a step that also ends the threat of five-year European
anti-subsidy levies.  An Indian manufacturer accounting for 87 percent of the
nation’s exports of stainless-steel fasteners to the EU wasn’t
subsidized, the bloc said today. Shipments from the producer,
Viraj Profiles Ltd., were sold at “significantly lower” prices
than the subsidized imports, according to the EU.  “A causal link between the subsidized imports, accounting
for a mere 13 percent of the total quantity exported from India,
and the injury suffered by the union industry cannot be
sufficiently established,” the European Commission, the 27-
nation EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said in the  Official
Journal .  The temporary levies being scrapped range from 3.2 percent
to 16.5 percent, depending on the Indian exporter. Viraj
Profiles faced a 3.2 percent duty. Another Indian exporter,
 Lakshmi Precision Screws Ltd. (LKPS) , faced a 13.6 percent levy.  The EU introduced the duties in February on a temporary
basis while continuing a probe into whether to apply
“definitive” anti-subsidy levies for five years.  The subsidy investigation began in May 2011, the same month
the EU opened a separate inquiry into whether Indian makers of
stainless-steel fasteners also sold them in  Europe  below cost, a
practice known as dumping. The EU dropped the threat of dumping
duties two months ago.  The two probes began less than a year after the EU ended
earlier threats to impose anti-subsidy and anti-dumping duties
on Indian stainless-steel fasteners. In July 2010, the EU closed
similar inquiries covering imports of the same goods from India
and  Malaysia  without applying duties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  