-- European Stocks Rebound From Biggest Decline in a Month
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-05-24T15:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/european-stock-futures-advance-merkel-rejects-euro-bonds.html
European stocks rebounded from the
biggest drop in a month amid concern recent losses are overdone
considering the outlook for company earnings.  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Belgium ’s biggest bank and insurer, and  ING
Groep NV (INGA) , the largest Dutch financial-services company, each
gained more than 2 percent. EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  rose after
Commerzbank AG upgraded its recommendations on Germany’s biggest
utilities.  Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (CWC)  surged 18 percent
after reporting earnings that beat estimates.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 1 percent to 241.91 at the
close of trading. The benchmark gauge had retreated for three
straight weeks, driving its valuation to 9.9 times estimated
earnings, near the cheapest since January, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are definitely long-term investors, that look
beyond whatever happens in the next 1-2 years, who are in the
market to buy on historically attractive valuations,” said
Henrik Drusebjerg, a senior strategist at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen, where he helps oversee $230 billion. “We’re
allocating considerable funds to defensive stocks to stay in
while avoiding the biggest downside risks.”  European stocks  slid the most in a month yesterday after a
report cited Greece’s former Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  as
saying that while it is unlikely the nation will leave the euro,
it’s still a risk.  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes rose in all the western European
markets today, except for Iceland and Greece. The U.K.’s FTSE
100 rallied 1.6 percent,  Germany ’s DAX advanced 0.5 percent and
 France ’s CAC 40 gained 1.2 percent. The Greek ASE Index plunged
4.5 percent to the lowest level since January 1990.  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 1 percent above the average over the past 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is already a lot of bad news priced in,”  Robert Buckland , Citigroup Inc.’s chief global equity strategist, wrote
in a report dated yesterday. “While it looks like it’s going to
be another difficult summer for global equity markets, our
targets are now suggesting 20 percent upside by end-2012. We
would buy into weakness.”  Stocks rose today even as a report showed European services
and manufacturing output contracted more than economists
forecast in May. A composite index based on a survey of
purchasing managers in both industries fell to 45.9 from 46.7 in
April, London-based Markit Economics said. Economists had
forecast a drop to 46.6, the median of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey showed. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction.  German Confidence  German business confidence also declined more than forecast
in May. The Munich-based Ifo institute said today its  business-
climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, slipped to
106.9 from 109.9 in April. Economists had forecast a reading of
109.4, according to the median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey.  European leaders clashed at a meeting yesterday over joint
debt sales as they called on  Greece  to stick with the budget
cuts needed to stay in the euro. The gathering was marked by new
French President  Francois Hollande ’s challenge to the German-
dominated deficit-cutting orthodoxy that has failed to stabilize
the euro area and led to speculation that Greece might be forced
out.  In the U.S., Labor Department figures showed the number of
Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment insurance
payments was little changed last week. Applications for jobless
benefits decreased by 2,000 to 370,000 in the week ended May 19
from a revised 372,000 the prior week. Initial claims matched
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  U.S. Orders  A separate report showed orders for computers, machinery
and other capital equipment dropped in April for a second month,
pointing to a slowdown in U.S. business investment.  Bookings for non-military goods excluding aircraft
decreased 1.9 percent after falling 2.2 percent in March, the
first back-to-back decline in a year, data from the Commerce
Department showed today in  Washington . Demand for all durable
goods, those meant to last at least three years, rose 0.2
percent, matching the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  KBC jumped 3 percent to 12.49, while ING added 2.1 percent
to 4.81 euros. A gauge of bank stocks was the fourth-best
performer of the 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  rose 2.5 percent to 4.93
euros.  Spain ’s second-largest lender will take non-binding bids
for five portfolios of homes, non-performing loans and consumer
loans until May 29, two people with knowledge of the matter
said. A spokesman for BBVA declined to comment or disclose the
nominal value of the portfolios.  Utilities Gain  EON and RWE climbed 2.1 percent to 15.31 euros and 2.2
percent to 29.99 euros, respectively. Commerzbank raised its
recommendation on EON to buy from hold and on RWE to hold from
reduce.  Cable & Wireless Communications jumped 18 percent to 33.01
pence, the biggest gain since 2003. The U.K. based mobile-phone
network operator reported earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of $901 million, beating analysts’
estimates of $884.5 million, and said it expects similar levels
through 2012 and 2013.  Sonova Holdings AG (SOON) , the Swiss owner of the Phonak hearing
aid brand, rose 3.3 percent to 86.80 Swiss francs after HSBC
Holdings Plc analyst Jan Keppeler advised clients to buy shares
in the company.  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the listed unit of BFA Bankia, dropped 7.4
percent to 1.57 euros, after Spain’s economy minister Luis de Guindos said the government will recapitalize the parent with as
much public money as necessary, as the nationalized group needs
at least 9 billion euros ($11 billion) to comply with banking
rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  