-- European Competition Bodies Boost Food Sector Oversight
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-24T15:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/european-competition-bodies-boost-food-sector-oversight.html
The food sector is a priority for
European competition authorities and oversight has increased
since food prices started to climb in 2007, according to the
European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s executive arm.  World food prices climbed 42 percent in 2007, according to
a  gauge  of 55 food items tracked by the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization. The index was at 213.9 points in
April, an increase of 12 percent from the end of 2007, data from
the Rome-based agency show. Prices may stabilize at high levels
and keep government import bills near a record, Hiroyuki Konuma,
assistant director general at the FAO, said in an interview on
May 3.  “Competition authorities across  Europe  are working hard to
ensure that food markets work for suppliers and consumers
alike,”  Joaquin Almunia , the European Commission’s antitrust
chief, said in a statement e-mailed today. “Where there has
been anticompetitive behavior at any level of the food supply
chain, competition authorities have swiftly addressed them.”  European competition authorities are investigating 60
antitrust cases in the food sector, according to the commission.
From 2004 to 2011, more than 180 antitrust cases were
investigated, with close to 1,300 merger decisions being made
and 100 monitoring actions undertaken, it said.  “The largest number of cases concerned processing and
manufacturing,” the commission said in the statement. “More
than 50 cartels involving price fixing, market and customer
allocation, and the exchange of sensitive business information
have been prohibited, as have exclusionary practices that worked
against farmers or suppliers.”  Antitrust Cases  Most of the antitrust cases concerned cereal-based
products, retail sales of groceries, and milk and dairy,
followed by fruit and vegetables and meat, poultry and eggs,
said the commission, which released a report on competition in
the food sector after requests by members of the European
Parliament.  “There are more things that could be done,” Almunia said.
“Some producers could restructure and pool activities in order
to become more efficient while some countries still have
unnecessary regulatory barriers at the retail level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sharon Lindores at 
 slindores@bloomberg.net  