-- Europe Holds Crisis Management Hostage to Volatile Greek Voters
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-05-24T13:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/europe-makes-crisis-management-hostage-to-volatile-greek-voters.html
European leaders tied their next
steps on the financial crisis to the outcome of a bitterly
contested election in  Greece  that may determine whether the 17-
nation euro currency splinters.  A six-hour summit ended early today with an exhortation to
Greek voters to elect a pro-austerity government on June 17 that
makes the  budget cuts  needed to keep the financially ravaged
country in the euro.  Euro-area finance ministers and leaders don’t meet again
until after the Greek election, potentially facing a question
deemed unthinkable when the euro was set up: how to broker an
exit without shattering the broader European financial system.  “The summit as a whole was very troubling,” Callum Henderson, global head of currency research at Standard
Chartered Plc in  Singapore , said on Bloomberg Television.
“While they talked, they did absolutely nothing. Probably the
best analogy for that informal dinner that they had is fiddling
while Rome burns, or indeed Athens burns.”  Leaders made an appeal to Greek voters that echoed one
issued by finance ministers last week, promising further
disbursements of 240 billion euros ($302 billion) in aid to a
government that stays on the budget-cutting path.  “We want Greece to remain in the euro area while
respecting its commitments,” according to a statement after the
summit, the 18th since Greece’s debt problems erupted. “We
expect that after the elections, the new Greek government will
make that choice.”  Greek Poll  European officials counted on the implied threat of an
unprecedented euro-region expulsion to sap support for an anti-
bailout party, called Syriza, that surged to second place in May
6 balloting. The ensuing political melee led to the new
elections, with most polls pointing to Syriza as the top vote
getter.  The euro fell for the 21st time in 24 days, touching a 22-
month low, as the currency union’s fate got entwined with the
Greek campaign. The euro bought $1.2565 at 2:30 p.m. in
Brussels, down 0.1 percent from yesterday.  “If Greece elects a pro-reform government, the country
could probably stay in the euro, preventing a new negative
precedent in the euro area that could spark contagion to other
countries such as  Spain  and  Italy ,”  Christian Schulz , an
economist at Berenberg Bank in  London , said in an e-mailed note.  The runup to French legislative elections in June cemented
the political holding pattern in Europe, with the outcome there
decisive for new French President  Francois Hollande ’s approach
to the more than two-year-old crisis.  Symbolic Break  Attending the Brussels summit on his ninth day in office,
the Socialist Hollande made a symbolic break with the French-
German tandem that dominated European policy making under his
predecessor,  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Hollande called for joint bond sales by euro governments in
the face of opposition from Chancellor  Angela Merkel  of Germany,
a AAA country that paid 0.07 percent to borrow for two years in
an auction yesterday. She reported “huge differences” with
 France  over that proposal to reshape the way  Europe  operates.  “It makes no sense that everything is pasted together with
euro bonds or some other kind of instrument that seems to show
solidarity, only to end up with more difficult conditions in
Europe than we have today,” Merkel said in Berlin today.  “Not unheated” was Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker’s description of the euro bond debate.  With the leaders unwilling to meddle in Greece and going
past midnight without discussing relief for recession-wracked
Spain, the summit amounted to a brainstorming session over
policy options for the post-crisis economy.  ‘Building Blocks’  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  took on the job
of exploring “building blocks and a working method” for
forging a more integrated economy, possibly with more shared
borrowing and centralized banking supervision.  Creditor countries such as  Finland  and the Netherlands
joined  Germany  in rejecting euro bonds, while only two leaders
mentioned the possibility of a European  bank deposit insurance 
scheme. Proposals for a centralized “bank resolution” fund
have made little headway since the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
crisis of 2008, as each European country guarded its banks and
refused to subsidize failing institutions elsewhere.  Van Rompuy ’s assignment was similar to one he was given in
 October , only to be sidetracked by negotiations over a German-
inspired deficit-limitation treaty now undergoing ratification.
The treaty’s biggest hurdle comes on May 31 with a referendum in
Ireland, a country that has twice rejected European accords.  Van Rompuy’s report on the institutional rethink is due at
the next summit, on June 28-29. One potential outcome is to set
up a committee to look at euro-zone governance in greater depth,
much like a panel headed by then European Commission President
Jacques Delors sketched out the path to the euro in 1989. 