-- Europe Manufacturing Shrinks, German Confidence Drops
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-05-24T11:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/europe-manufacturing-shrinks-german-confidence-drops-economy.html
European manufacturing and services
output dropped in May, German  business confidence  declined and
Britain’s first-quarter contraction was deeper than previously
estimated as the region’s economic slump worsened.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in the services and manufacturing industries in the 17-nation
euro area fell to 45.9 from 46.7 in April, London-based Markit
Economics said today.  Germany ’s business climate index decreased
to 106.9 from 109.9 in April and U.K. gross domestic product
fell 0.3 percent in the first quarter instead of 0.2 percent
estimated earlier, reports showed today.  Europe ’s fiscal crisis worsened over the past month as
inconclusive elections in  Greece  fueled concerns about a euro
breakup as countries from Spain to  Italy  struggled to narrow in
budget gaps. The euro slumped to the weakest since July 2010
against the dollar and data showed economies around the globe
are also faltering, with China’s manufacturing seen shrinking in
May and worse-than-forecast data from Japan and  Taiwan .  “The euro zone is being buffeted by  major headwinds ,
notably increased fiscal tightening in many countries and
markedly rising unemployment,” said  Howard Archer , chief
European economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . “The
heightened Greek crisis is magnifying the problems by weighing
down on already weak and fragile business and  consumer
confidence , adding to uncertainty about the outlook.”  35 Months  The euro dropped for a third day against the dollar,
trading at $1.2583 at 12:20 p.m. in Brussels. The common
currency has declined 4.6 percent over the past month.  Economists had forecast the composite indicator to drop to
46.6, the median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
showed. A gauge of euro-area  manufacturing  decreased to 45 in
May from 45.9 in April, the lowest in 35 months, Markit said. A
measure of services declined to 46.5 from 46.9; that’s the
weakest in seven months, according to the statement. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  Euro-area GDP “will almost certainly show a contraction in
the second quarter,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  in Amsterdam. “Our base scenario is still for a
gradual return to modestly positive growth in the second half of
the year, but with the escalating debt crisis and the ongoing
drag from fiscal policy, the risks are clearly skewed to a more
 protracted downturn .”  The U.K.’s quarterly GDP decline compared with the 0.2
percent drop that was the median forecast of 29 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. From a year ago, the economy contracted 0.1
percent, the first annual drop since the fourth quarter of 2009.  Brussels Summit  European leaders meeting in Brussels yesterday clashed over
joint debt sales as they called on Greece to stick with the
budget cuts needed to stay in the euro area and offered no
immediate relief for recession-wracked  Spain . Greece is
preparing for new elections on June 17 after an anti-bailout
party surged to second place in balloting on May 6.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
on May 22 cited the fiscal crisis among the risks to the global
economy, when lowering its euro-zone forecasts for this year and
next. The 17-nation economy will shrink 0.1 percent in 2012
before expanding 0.9 percent in 2013. The OECD had previously
forecast growth of 0.2 percent and 1.4 percent, respectively.  “Such  persistent weakness  reflects underlying economic
fiscal and financial imbalances within the euro area, which have
been the root cause of this crisis and barely begun to unwind,”
OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan said in a statement.
“Recovery in healthier countries, while welcome, is not strong
enough to offset flat or negative growth elsewhere.”  Below-50 Readings  Economic data from  China  added to concerns that growth in
 Asia  is in danger as the world grapples with the continuing debt
crisis in Europe. Chinese manufacturing may shrink for a seventh
month in May, a purchasing managers’ index released by  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit indicated. If confirmed on June 1, it
would mark the longest run of below-50 readings since the global
financial crisis.  With European households cutting spending and global
economies cooling, companies may struggle to maintain their
sales growth.  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer, said on May
23 that profit won’t rise this year, with Chief Executive
Officer Olaf Koch saying while 2011 “was not an easy year,”
the current year “will not be any easier.”  ‘Island of Happiness’  Germany’s faltering economy means the  euro-zone  economy may
lose a support that has helped soften the impact of recessions
from Spain to Italy. German domestic demand dropped 0.3 percent
in the first quarter from the previous three months, while
construction slumped 1.3 percent and gross fixed  capital
spending  decreased 1.1 percent, a report showed today.  “Until recently, it seemed as if the German economy had
turned into an island of happiness,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an
economist at ING Group in Brussels. Today’s business confidence
indicator “however, is a clear signal that even the new German
magnificence could come to an end.”  The European Commission is scheduled to release an
indicator of euro-area economic confidence on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at   mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  