-- European Bailout Fund Cuts Borrowing Cost by 50 Percent in Bond
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-05-24T13:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/european-bailout-fund-cuts-borrowing-cost-by-50-percent-in-bond.html
The European Union’s temporary
bailout fund cashed in on investor appetite for haven assets to
cut borrowing costs by more than 50 percent since January.  The European Financial Stability Facility sold 3 billion
euros ($3.7 billion) of bonds due in June 2015 that were priced
to yield 18 basis points more than the swap rate, it said in a
statement. That compares with the 40 basis points the fund paid
on its last three-year issue on Jan. 3, whose spread has since
tightened to 14 basis points.  The EFSF completed its seventh fundraising of 2012 after a
European leaders’ summit in Brussels this week failed to offer
immediate relief for  Greece  and disagreed on proposals for joint
borrowing via eurobonds. The temporary aid fund took advantage
of the same desire for safety that drove yields on German,
French and Austrian bonds to record lows today.  “The new EFSF bond is coming at very cheap levels because
it’s seen as a safe haven,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior
rates strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “This kind of
investor appetite could be transferred to eurobonds, which are a
positive solution as they’d reduce the financing costs of
countries like Italy and  Spain .”  The sale of new 1.125 percent EFSF bonds attracted orders
of more than 4.5 billion euros, according to the statement.
“This issue attracted some very large orders coming from new
investors,” Chief Financial Officer Christophe Frankel said.  Top Rating  The EFSF is rated Aaa by Moody’s Investors Service and one
step lower at AA+ by  Standard & Poor’s , and is backed by 780
billion euros of guarantees from  member states , according to its
 website . The fund was formed in 2010 to provide loans to cash-
strapped EU countries by issuing bonds.  The yield on  Germany ’s 10-year benchmark note dropped to a
record 1.351 percent today, while its 30-year rate declined to
1.898 percent. French and Austrian five-year yields also fell to
all-time lows. Germany and  France  are the fund’s biggest
guarantors.  “France has a huge weight in the guarantee of the EFSF,”
which is helping the fund’s bonds, said Giansanti.  The yield on the EFSF’s existing 3 billion euros of 1.625
percent notes due in February 2015, its first issue of this
year, declined to as low as the swap rate less three basis
points in April after tumbling from 49 basis points over the
benchmark on Jan. 17, Bloomberg data show.  Bank of America Corp,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc managed the EFSF’s new issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  