-- Ex-BP Engineer Shouldn’t Have Travel Curbs Eased, U.S. Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-05-24T22:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/ex-bp-engineer-shouldn-t-have-travel-curbs-eased-u-s-says.html
A former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer charged with
destroying evidence sought for a U.S probe of the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico oil spill shouldn’t be released from the travel
restrictions imposed on him, the U.S. said.  Kurt Mix, charged with two counts of obstruction of justice
for allegedly deleting text message strings from his mobile
phone after being told by BP not to remove any information, was
prohibited from traveling outside  Texas , Louisiana,
 Massachusetts  and  New York  without a judge’s permission.  Mix, who has pleaded not guilty, asked last week for the
restrictions to be eased. Mix’s “bail conditions should remain
unchanged,” U.S. Justice Department lawyers said in court
papers filed today in federal court in  New Orleans   “The case against defendant is strong and he has a
significant incentive to flee given that he faces incarceration
upon conviction,” the prosecutors said. “This court properly
found that defendant posed a risk of flight.”  Mix, who worked on internal BP efforts to estimate the
amount of oil leaking from the well, was arrested last month in
the first criminal case arising from the spill. The Justice
Department, which began investigating the incident in June 2010,
said in April it was continuing to consider whether to file more
criminal charges over the spill. The charges against Mix are
likely to be followed by others, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said last month.  Electronic Records  Joan McPhee, Mix’s attorney, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment.  A hearing on Mix’s request to amend travel restrictions is
scheduled for May 29 in New Orleans.  A U.S. grand jury had been investigating the spill
estimates,  Federal Bureau  of Investigation Special Agent Barbara
O’Donnell said in a sworn statement filed April 23 in the Mix
case.  “Mix deleted numerous electronic records relating to the
Deepwater Horizon disaster response, including records
concerning the amount of oil potentially flowing from the well,
after being repeatedly informed of his obligation to maintain
such records,” O’Donnell said in the statement.  Multiple Notices  Mix deleted the e-mails in October 2010 despite receiving
multiple notices from London-based BP in the weeks after the
spill, “which stated on the cover, in bold and underlined type,
that instant messages and text messages needed to be
preserved,” the U.S. said in its indictment issued May 2.  Mix brought the deletions to the attention of the
government, his attorney told U.S. Magistrate Judge Daniel Knowles at her client’s arraignment May 3.  “Mr. Mix saved thousands of e-mails and hundreds of  text
messages ,” McPhee said. The information saved includes flow
rate data, work on the efforts to contain the spill, and his
personal log notes, she said.  Mix’s lawyers said in a filing last week that an unnamed
“third party” has evidence that could clear him. The lawyers
asked the court to allow them to hand over this evidence to
prosecutors without jeopardizing the rights of the third party,
which holds a legal privilege over that information.  Key Evidence  The evidence is key to Mix’s defense “and capable of fully
exonerating him,” the engineer’s lawyers said in the filing.
Mix’s lawyers contend that because the third party hasn’t waived
attorney/client privilege over the evidence, they haven’t been
able to make it available to prosecutors.  “The government was unaware of this exculpatory
information when it chose to indict defendant Mix and it remains
unaware of it today,” according to the filing.  Prosecutors in court papers today rejected Mix’s assertion
that this is exculpatory evidence that will prove his innocence.  “Defendant’s claim that he has some privileged evidence
unknown to the government that will completely exonerate him
(apparently a prior conversation with BP counsel) also appears
to be hyperbole,”  Justice Department  lawyers said in the
filing. “Whatever defendant shared with BP counsel, it cannot
possibly be dispositive of whether he intentionally deleted the
texts in this case.”  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, declined to comment on the
government’s filing.  Property Damage  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and started millions of barrels of crude
leaking into the Gulf. The accident prompted hundreds of
lawsuits against BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-
based owner and operator of the rig; and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services.  BP agreed in March to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss,
property damage and spill and cleanup-related injuries. The
settlement didn’t resolve pollution-law claims brought against
BP by the U.S. or the states of  Louisiana  and  Alabama .  The case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-0017, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 