-- Ex-SEC Attorney Barred for 1 Year Over Stanford Ethics Lapse
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-05-24T23:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/ex-sec-attorney-barred-for-1-year-over-stanford-ethics-lapse.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission barred one of its former enforcement officials from
practicing before the agency for one year over claims he
violated federal conflict-of-interest rules.  Spencer Barasch, who participated in the SEC’s
investigation of R. Allen Stanford’s $7 billion Ponzi scheme,
performed private legal work for Stanford Group Co. about a year
after leaving the agency even though the agency’s ethics office
had told him he was prohibited from doing so, the SEC said in a
statement today. Barasch consented to the bar without admitting
or denying the allegations.  Stanford was convicted March 6 of 13 criminal counts
stemming from an investment fraud built on bogus certificates of
deposit at his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank sold
through his U.S. brokerage. The investigation became a black eye
for the SEC after an inspector general report found the agency
had been aware of a possible fraud for more than a decade.  “This action shows that the commission takes seriously
ethical lapses by attorneys who appear and practice before it,
and that such violations will result in serious disciplinary
action,” Richard Humes, SEC associate general counsel, said in
a statement.  Barasch, who was associate director in the SEC’s regional
office in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , from 1998 to 2005, took part
“personally and substantially” in decisions involving possible
allegations against Stanford and his entities, according to the
agency.  “In order to avoid the expense and uncertainty of
protracted litigation, Spence and the government have entered
into a settlement that fully and finally resolves this matter,”
Paul Coggins, an attorney for Barasch at Locke Lord LLP, said in
a statement.  Barasch, who now practices law at Andrews Kurth LLP in
Houston, agreed earlier this year to pay a $50,000 civil fine to
the  Justice Department  for violating ethics rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  