-- Texas Judge’s Campaign Says He’s Taken on the EPA
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-05-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/texas-judge-s-campaign-says-he-s-taken-on-the-epa.html
A  Texas  state judge is promoting his
recent decisions favoring a gas driller in its dispute with a
local landowner as part of his election campaign, a move some
legal scholars say may violate state judicial ethics rules.  With aspects of the case still pending in his courtroom,
Judge Trey Loftin sent fliers to voters saying he forced the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to back down.  Loftin, who is campaigning to keep his state judgeship in a
county west of  Dallas , also sent out materials with the image of
talk show host  Rush Limbaugh , who  credited  the judge’s ruling in
favor of driller  Range Resources Corp. (RRC) , based in Fort Worth,
Texas, for getting the EPA to reverse course.  “The problem of having judges run for office is that
sometimes they cross a line in trying to get elected,” James
Alfini, a professor of law at  South Texas College  of Law in
Houston and co-author of a book on judicial ethics, said in an
interview. “In this case, I think he crossed a line.”  Texas is one of  39 states  that select trial court judges by
election, and one of eight that do so through partisan
elections, according to the  American Bar Association . Others
chose judges through appointment.  The Texas code of judicial conduct prohibits judges from
commenting on pending or impending cases “in a manner which
suggests to a reasonable person the judge’s probable decision.”
Alfini said that the State Commission on Judicial Conduct should
conduct an inquiry.  Commission Reaction  The commission’s executive director, Seana Willing, said it
doesn’t disclose whether a complaint has been filed against a
judge. Unless a complaint is filed and examined, there is no way
to know if a particular campaign statement violates the state
code, she said in an e-mail.  Loftin, who is running to retain the post to which he was
appointed on the 43rd district court in Parker County, has ruled
in favor of Range three times in a legal dispute with landowner
Steven Lipsky and consultant Alisa Rich. Lipsky sued Range,
accusing it of contaminating his well water. Range, in a
countersuit, alleged that Rich and Lipsky conspired to defame
the company by getting the Environmental Protection Agency to
intervene in the case, which prompted media coverage.  While one decision in the case is under appeal, parts of
the case continue to be argued in Loftin’s courtroom. Last week,
Loftin ruled that blogger Sharon Wilson must turn over e-mails
Range demanded.  “The EPA, using falsified evidence provided by a liberal
activist environmental consultant, accused and fined a local gas
driller of contaminating wells,” according to a campaign flier
for Loftin’s campaign. President Barack “Obama’s EPA backed
down only after Judge Trey Loftin ruled that the evidence was
‘deceptive.’”  In Public Record  A message left at Loftin’s office was returned by Craig
Murphy, who runs the Austin-based political consulting firm
Murphy Turner Associates. Murphy, who said he is a campaign
spokesman for Loftin, declined to elaborate on the text in the
brochures, or even say whether they referred to this case.  “We were real careful in the mailings to make sure
everything in there was appropriate,” he said. “What we’ve
done is strictly reprint things that are in the public record.”  Range, Rich and Lipsky aren’t named in either of the two
fliers provided to Bloomberg. The news stories and Limbaugh
commentaries they cite are about the case.  Loftin’s campaign  Facebook  page includes a reprinted
“morning update” by Limbaugh from April 9, in which he says
the judge’s decision in favor of Range in the Lipsky case forced
the EPA to backtrack. Loftin’s campaign mailer also credits a
story in the  Fort-Worth  Star Telegram about his decision in the
Range case.  Recusal Could be Sought  Even without specific references, the mailer may cause a
reasonable person to think Loftin was biased in the case, said
Keith Swisher, a professor of law at the Phoenix School of Law
and  expert  on judicial ethics.  “The fact that a specific name wasn’t used doesn’t
provide” an out, Swisher said in an interview. The materials
could also be used by Lipsky or Rich’s lawyers to get Loftin
removed from the case, he said.  Lipsky didn’t return a telephone message seeking comment.  “It would be disturbing to think that there was any
association between this mailer and myself,” Rich said in an
interview. Rich’s lawyer, George Carlton, said he is reviewing
the documents.  “I’ve never run across anything like this before,” he
said in an interview. “We’re deciding what, if anything, we
need to do.”  Loftin’s Opponent  “I don’t think a judge should ever comment about a case
pending in his court,” Craig Towson, Loftin’s  opponent  in the
Republican primary on May 29, said in an interview. “One could
feel slighted if you have a judge commenting on the case.”  The case in Weatherford, Texas, has become  fodder  for a
nationwide fight between activists increasingly worried about
the effects of hydraulic fracturing for natural gas on human
health, and drillers complaining about increasing scrutiny from
federal regulators.  It is one of at least three examples nationwide in which
the EPA initially linked water contamination in a well to
fracking, in which millions of gallons of water are mixed with
sand and chemicals and shot deep underground to free gas trapped
in rock. The agency has since backed off in each case, settling
with Range, agreeing to more testing in another case and
concluding that homes in a third area are largely free of
contamination.  Lipsky initially sued Range in early 2011, after the EPA
had issued an administrative order saying Range was responsible
for contaminating his water with dangerous levels of methane and
benzene, which can cause cancer. Range countersued, saying
Lipsky and Rich conspired to persuade the EPA to intervene.  Loftin ruled that Lipsky had to take his original complaint
to the state Railroad Commission, not to the court.  SLAPP Law  Lawyers for Rich and Lipsky tried to get Loftin to throw
out Range’s countersuit, arguing that it violates a Texas law
against so-called Strategic Lawsuits Against Public
Participation, or SLAPPs. Loftin  rejected  that argument on Feb.
16, and the case was appealed to the Texas Second  Court  of
Appeals in Fort Worth.  A month after Loftin made that decision, the EPA settled
its dispute with Range. In his campaign materials, Loftin takes
credit for EPA’s about face.  “Judge Loftin’s decision regarding deceptive actions by
environmental extremists made the EPA re-evaluate its national
policy,” his campaign said in a flier.  The case in Texas state court is Lipsky v. Durant, 11-
cv-0798, 43rd District Court of Texas, Parker County
(Weatherford, Texas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  