-- Exim Bank Malaysia Said to Start $500 Million Bond Sale
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-05-24T03:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/exim-bank-malaysia-said-to-start-500-million-bond-sale.html
Exim Bank Malaysia , a state-owned
export finance company, began marketing as much as $500 million
of dollar-denominated bonds in its first global offering, two
people familiar with the matter said.  Nomura Holdings Inc., BNP Paribas SA,  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) 
and CIMB Holdings Bhd. were hired to manage the sale, said the
people who couldn’t be named as the details are private. The
$500 million sale is part of Exim Bank’s $1.5 billion medium-
term note program, they said.  The Kuala Lumpur-based financial institution started
marketing the bonds in  Japan  today and will move on to Singapore,
 Hong Kong  and  London  next week, said the people. Mohd Nasir
Johar, Exim Bank’s communications head, couldn’t be immediately
reached for comment via mobile phone or e-mail.  Exim Bank is tapping the market to fund its overseas
expansion as borrowing costs fall. Yields on Malaysia’s
benchmark Islamic bonds due June 2021, one of three outstanding
sovereign dollar notes in the Southeast Asian nation, have
dropped 40 basis points, or 0.4 percentage point, to 3.9 percent
this year, according to data compiled Bloomberg.  The Malaysian lender’s offering comes after Export-Import
Bank of  Korea  sold a record 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) of
Samurai bonds last week.  Exim Bank Malaysia reported net profit of 176.3 million
ringgit ($56 million) for 2011 and aims to approve 28 percent
more loans this year, the Star newspaper reported today, citing
Chief Executive Officer Adissadikin Ali. The bank approved 4.7
billion ringgit of loans last year and plans to expand to the
Middle East and North Africa following rising enquiries from
Malaysian companies operating in those countries, according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  