-- Facebook’s Saverin Left U.S. as a Taxpayer, Not a Traitor
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   K a t z e n s t e i n   a n d   S c o t t   A .   B o w m a n
-- 2012-05-24T23:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/facebook-s-saverin-left-u-s-as-a-taxpayer-not-a-traitor.html
Eduardo Saverin, the co-founder of
the social network and  Facebook Inc. (FB) , stands accused of
violating the social contract -- the idea that government is
based on an agreement among its citizens to ensure mutual
protection of person and property.  His decision to give up his American citizenship before the
Facebook initial public offering drew criticism for his
perceived breach of financial and patriotic duties, including
the duty to pay income taxes.  He is even the target of legislation called the  Ex-Patriot
Act , proposed by Democratic Senators  Charles Schumer  and  Bob Casey , that would ban wealthy expatriates such as Saverin from
ever re-entering the U.S. This is seen as a more stringent
version of current law, known as the  Reed Amendment , which
permits the denial of re-entry to tax-motivated expatriates, but
does not require it. The Ex-Patriot Act would also tax an ex-
citizen’s capital gains at 30 percent for 10 years.  The proposal and the hubbub around the Saverin case are
based on two misconceptions about the tax consequences of
surrendering a passport and an individual’s motivations for
giving up citizenship.  We do not fault Schumer, Casey and others for
misunderstanding the mechanics of U.S. taxes on people who
leave. These details are tucked away in a few pages that only a
handful of lawyers are aware of in an increasingly complex  tax
code .  Deemed Sale  The  critical confusion  is that Saverin, and others like
him, somehow avoid U.S. capital-gains tax by moving to another
country -- often a no- or low-tax jurisdiction -- and then
selling property after they give up their citizenship. In fact,
the act of expatriation itself constitutes a deemed sale: an
immediate income tax (known as the exit tax) is imposed on all
of the individual’s property. The government taxes the gains
that accrued while the person was a U.S. citizen. It is only the
gains accumulated after expatriation that escape taxation. In
other words, the Treasury gets its fair share of the tax before
the person surrenders his passport.  In Saverin’s case, the difference between his initial
investment in Facebook and the fair-market value of the stock
upon his expatriation -- less an exemption -- is subject to the
U.S. income tax. The simple act of giving up his U.S.
citizenship caused the capital-gains tax to be due and payable
immediately. The government will collect significant sums as a
result.  Saverin won’t be subject to U.S. income tax on any
appreciation between the time of his expatriation and the actual
sale of his stock. When Saverin surrendered his  citizenship ,
there was a strong likelihood -- but no guarantee -- that his
actions would allow him to avoid taxes on such gains.  Although the  Facebook IPO  looked like a sure winner at the
time, the gains may prove to be significantly less than what he
had hoped for. If the stock continues to decline, below its
value when Saverin gave up his passport, he will have actually
paid capital-gains tax that he could have avoided had he kept
his citizenship.  Regardless of the amount of gain Saverin may avoid by
expatriating, his status when that gain is recognized places him
in the same tax-preferred position as any other nonresident
noncitizen who invests in the U.S. Our tax system is structured
to encourage foreign investment. Expatriates might not want our
passports, but we still want their capital.  An even-lesser-known tax consequence of expatriation is
that any U.S. citizen or resident who inherits property from
Saverin or any other wealthy ex-American is subject to a special
inheritance tax.  Inheritance Tax Exposure  Unlike the U.S. estate and gift taxes, which are imposed on
the person who makes the gift or on the estate of the person who
dies, the inheritance tax is imposed on the recipient of the
property. Should Saverin ever have children or grandchildren who
become U.S. citizens or residents and receive gifts or
inheritances from him, the Treasury will have another bite at
his tax apple.  We cannot claim to know why Saverin gave up his
citizenship. In our experience, however, we know that the
motivations of expatriates are often far more complicated than
the desire to avoid taxes.  When we, as lawyers, counsel clients on this challenging
decision, the conversations always turn first to personal and
financial security. Many wealthy Americans are more concerned
about preserving their wealth in a tumultuous financial system
than they are about avoiding taxes. This is particularly so as
people seek out stable investments internationally in the face
of increasingly onerous  government regulation . (If you haven’t
heard of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or  FATCA , we
suggest some not-so-light reading.)  We find that these individuals love the personal and
economic liberties that are fundamental to the American social
contract and are more than willing to contribute to the costs of
securing these liberties. But many believe that the current
state of our politics and government cannot provide a long-term
guarantee of these liberties.  No one is saying there aren’t people who give up their
citizenship to obtain hoped-for tax benefits. This may very well
have been Saverin’s motivation. But ignoring the other
considerations in making such a decision is a failure to see the
whole picture.  We believe the U.S. laws are properly structured to impose
appropriate taxes on American expatriates. We also believe that
paying attention to the many reasons that people decide to leave
their country would go further in encouraging our successful and
productive citizens to remain parties to our social contract.  (Andrew M. Katzenstein and Scott A. Bowman are tax lawyers
at Proskauer Rose LLP. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  eradicating polio  and
 Obama’s military strategy ; Stephen L. Carter on  Romney and
Harvard’s faculty lounge ;  Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan Chase’s odd
disclosure ;  Michael Kinsley  on  China’s capitalist confusion ;
William Pesek on  Asia’s lessons for Europe ; Matthew Bryza on why
 Azerbaijan deserves a song contest .  To contact the writers of this article:
Andrew Katzenstein at  akatzenstein@proskauer.com ;
Scott Bowman at  sbowman@proskauer.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 