-- Facebook IPO Debacle Triggers Legal Debate
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e ,   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-05-24T20:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/facebook-ipo-debacle-triggers-legal-debate.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public
offering has triggered allegations the social network and banks
led by Morgan Stanley selectively disclosed crucial information
to investors. Securities law experts say it’s not clear the
firms did anything wrong.  At issue is whether  Facebook  gave non-public, material
information to  analysts  that was then shared with select
investors in the form of lower earnings projections. The answer
lies in the evidence uncovered and the interpretation of
Regulation FD, a U.S. Securities Exchange and Commission rule
that requires public disclosure of important information.  “This is a gray area,” Tamar Frankel, a professor at
Boston University School of Law, said in a telephone interview.
“There are a zillion rules, but there isn’t a rule that
addresses precisely this.”  Facebook amended its IPO filing on May 9, about a week
before the $16 billion sale, to say growth in advertising had
failed to keep up with user gains. It then contacted more than
20 analysts, including those at underwriters Morgan Stanley,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , to guide them
toward the lower end of its second-quarter sales estimate,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  A day after that filing, the analysts called up some
investor clients to communicate their revised estimates for
sales and profit, said people with knowledge of the process.  Facebook’s stock has  dropped  16 percent since the initial
share sale, spurring shareholder suits from New York to
 California . They allege that Facebook and its underwriters
misled investors by failing to disclose the figures to a wider
audience. Information is material if it would probably affect a
company’s share price, if known. The stock gained 3.2 percent to
$33.03 at 4 p.m. in New York today.  Burden of Proof  The  Menlo Park , California-based company didn’t give the
analysts any materially different information than the updated
prospectus, said a person close to the company. It’s standard
for a company to provide guidance to analysts ahead of an
offering, that person said. Larry Yu, a spokesman for Facebook,
declined to comment.  Any lawsuit will have to prove that the information
Facebook and its bankers gave investors was material, or
important, said Jeffrey Manns, professor of banking and
securities law at George Washington University.  “It might have been better for Facebook had they made more
specific disclosures and made them publicly, because rather than
a story of public outrage and disgust, the expectations might
have been a bit more tempered in a healthy way,” Manns said.
“Facebook wouldn’t have this shadow of potential securities
litigation hanging over their head.”  Analyst Cuts  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts cut their 2012 profit  estimate  for
Facebook to 48 cents a share from 51 cents, said two of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the process was
private. They also cut their 2013 profit projection to 83 cents
a share from 88 cents, they said. Investors received the new
figures by phone as underwriters weren’t permitted to publish
anything about Facebook during the marketing period, according
to the people.  While the communication of the estimates may have been
selective disclosure, investors may only have a case if they can
prove the filing omitted crucial information,  John Coffee , a
Columbia University law professor, said in an e-mail.  “This is a good example of the shortfall of Regulation FD,
which should embarrass the SEC,” he said.  While analysts cut their estimates, Facebook and its
underwriters raised both the  price range  and the number of
shares on offer. Facebook sold shares at $38 apiece in its IPO.
The stock  hovered  close to that price in its trading debut as
Morgan Stanley bought the stock to stabilize it, people familiar
with the matter said at the time. The stock later fell as low as
$30.94 on May 22.  Running for Exits  “If it turns out that the vast majority of investors who
ran for the exits right off the bat, ran for the exits because
they knew something, that’s clearly material,” said Dominic
Auld, a lawyer at Labaton Sucharow, a New York-based law firm
specializing in securities litigation on behalf of shareholders.
He said he’s currently not representing anyone with a suit in
connection with the IPO.  Morgan Stanley’s procedures in the offering are in
compliance with all regulations, Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for
the New York-based firm, said in a statement this week. The bank
said it sent the revised prospectus to all institutional and
retail clients and that the revised analyst estimates were taken
into account in the initial share sale’s pricing. He declined to
comment beyond the statement.  Investors have lost more than $2.5 billion since the
offering last week, according to a complaint filed yesterday in
Manhattan federal court. Among those named as defendants in the
suit are Facebook, CEO  Mark Zuckerberg , Chief Financial Officer
David Ebersman, Morgan Stanley and other underwriters.  Material?  “The fact that underwriters took down their earnings
estimates is material information,” said Sam Rudman, a partner
at Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP, whose firm is handling the
 New York  shareholder suit. “There isn’t any investor in
Facebook that wouldn’t have wanted to know that.”  Facebook said in the May 9 filing that its  revenue  may be
negatively affected by users accessing the site on mobile
devices rather than personal computers since the company’s
ability to make money off mobile users is “unproven.”  If the analysts’ revisions were based on the public
disclosures, banks wouldn’t have needed to disclose them to all
participants, said Boston University School of Law’s Frankel. If
the revisions were based on inside information that other
investors didn’t have, “that may create a problem.”  Judgment Required  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment on Facebook’s
disclosures.  “Until we unwind the facts and circumstances surrounding
this situation, it is inappropriate to speculate about what
potential violations may have occurred,” said a spokesperson
for the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a financial
industry watchdog.  The size and prominence of Facebook’s IPO may have made it
more of a target for shareholder suits, regardless of the facts
at hand, said Dennis Kelly, chairman of government
investigations and white collar crime at Burns & Levinson. The
size may also increase the threshold for disclosure, he said.  “Materiality is a moving target, it depends on a number of
moving factors,” said Kelly. “It’s first a decision for a
judge and ultimately a jury.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  