-- Facebook IPO Scrutiny Forcing It to Grow Up in Washington
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-05-24T20:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/facebook-ipo-scrutiny-forcing-it-to-grow-up-inside-washington.html
Congressional questions about
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering are forcing its nascent
lobbying operation to play defense as it builds the political
support companies need before coming under scrutiny.  “They have not made the connections and personal
relationships they would like to have made,” former Senator
Byron Dorgan of North Dakota, a senior policy adviser at law
firm Arent Fox LLP, said in an interview.  “I’m sure they’re going to be doing double duty trying to
introduce themselves and at the same time answering questions
about the IPO.”  U.S. House and Senate committee officials said yesterday
their staffs are gathering information about the social
networking company’s offering and that the topic may come up at
congressional hearings.  Lead underwriter Morgan Stanley may face regulatory review
over claims an analyst shared negative news about Facebook with
institutional investors before the offering,  Richard Ketchum ,
chairman and CEO of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
said May 22.  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairwoman  Mary Schapiro 
said her agency may also review the offering.  Andrew Noyes, a Facebook spokesman in Washington, declined
to comment on the congressional activity.  Playing Catch-up  Facebook, which first registered to lobby in 2009, is
playing catch-up to other technology companies such as  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  that have more established efforts in
Washington.  Google Inc. spent $5 million in the first quarter of this
year, and Microsoft Corp. spent $1.8 million during the same
period. Facebook reported expenditures of $650,000 from January
to March, more than double the $230,000 it spent during the same
period a year earlier, Senate records show.  Its annual lobbying expenses expanded to $1.4 million in
2011 from $207,878 in 2009.  Facebook lobbied on more than 20 bills in the first quarter
of this year, many of them focused on online privacy and
cybersecurity, Senate records show. The company lobbied the
House and Senate, the White House, the Federal Trade Commission,
Commerce Department and other federal agencies.  Lobbying Team  The social networking site this year added former
Republican U.S. Representative John Shadegg and Jack Krumholtz,
Microsoft’s former chief lobbyist, to its  Washington  team. Its
Washington operation also includes Steven Elmendorf, top aide to
then-House Democratic leader Dick Gephardt; and James Ryan,
former counsel to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, according
to Senate lobbying reports.  Kirk Blalock, who is raising money for presumptive
Republican nominee Mitt Romney, previously lobbied for Facebook
and ended that relationship as of Jan. 31, Senate records show.
Joel Johnson, a former aide to President  Bill Clinton , also
lobbied previously and isn’t any longer, he said.  “You have people that have worked on issues at the highest
level in government,” Markham Erickson, executive director of
NetCoalition, a technology trade group representing companies
including Google and Amazon.com Inc., said in an interview.
“There’s nothing that really can happen in Washington that is
going to overwhelm that group of people.”  NetCoalition’s members include Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News.  “Part of being a major player is not just going public but
having a presence in Washington to prove you’re a grownup,”
 Linda Fowler , a professor of government at Dartmouth College in
Hanover,  New Hampshire , said in an interview.  Winning Friends  Facebook has made some of its Washington connections in
ways more subtle than traditional lobbying.  It holds training sessions with U.S. lawmakers and
congressional staffers from both parties to explain its site’s
features and how to use the service to reach constituents.
Hundreds of members of Congress and staffers take part in the
training sessions annually, said Noyes, the Facebook spokesman.  “Our presence and growth in Washington reflect our
commitment to explaining how our service works, the actions we
take to protect the more than 900 million people who use our
service, the importance of preserving an open Internet, and the
value of innovation to our economy,” Joel Kaplan, head of
Facebook’s Washington office, said in an e-mail.  Kaplan served as deputy chief of staff for former President
 George W. Bush .  Social Phenomenon  “They recognize that the government and society will
continue to grapple with understanding privacy-related issues
and a panoply of other issues,” Rey Ramsey, president of
TechNet, a technology trade association, said in an interview.
“They’re spending time doing the nuts and bolts of educating
people how to use this social phenomenon.”  Facebook formed a corporate political action committee in
September. It has given $119,000 in donations to U.S. lawmakers
through March 31,  Federal Election Commission  records show.  The PAC’s initial recipients included Senate and House
leaders of both parties. It gave $5,000 apiece to Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky ; House Speaker
 John Boehner , an Ohio Republican; House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican; and House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of  California ; and $2,500 to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat.  Other recipients of Facebook PAC contributions serve on
House and Senate committees that handle Internet and online
privacy issues.  Under Pressure  In November, Facebook agreed to settle complaints by the
U.S. Federal Trade Commission that the company failed to protect
users’ privacy or disclose how their data could be used.  Facebook, based in Menlo Park, California, agreed to get
clear consent from users before sharing material obtained under
earlier, more restrictive terms. It also agreed to independent
reviews of its privacy practices over 20 years.  “Now that it’s public, Facebook is under pressure for
short-term profits and that may stimulate it to be more
aggressive in developing ways to use this huge amount of data,”
Dartmouth’s Fowler said.  Banking Briefings  The Senate Banking Committee is coordinating bipartisan
staff briefings with Facebook, regulators and others, Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat who chairs the panel, said in
an e-mail.  Senator Richard Shelby of  Alabama , the ranking Republican
on the banking committee, said he wasn’t convinced there was
anything amiss with the IPO and that he wanted to wait and see
what the panel discovered.  “Our committee watches things, they do their due
diligence,
but I don’t know anything that this is not just an ordinary IPO
that maybe went south,” Shelby said today in an interview.  Johnson said he will decide if the committee needs to hold
a hearing after the briefings.  “The key now is for the regulators to act with urgency and
for Congress to hold those involved accountable,” Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who chairs the Senate Banking
subcommittee on securities, insurance and investment, said in an
e-mailed statement.  ‘Learning Curve’  The House Financial Services Committee, headed by
Representative Spencer Bachus, an Alabama Republican, is
gathering information on the  Facebook IPO .  The topic will probably be raised during hearings in the
coming weeks,  Jeff Emerson , a committee spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  “The learning curve will be steep and quick,” Larry Noble, an attorney with the Washington law firm of Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, said of Facebook’s lobbying
team in an interview.  “They’re just going to have to get in there and have their
people work the Hill and work the various agencies,” said
Noble, a former general counsel with the Federal Election
Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  