-- FDA Gets Senate Approval for $6.4 Billion Review Fee Plan
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/fda-s-6-4-billion-drug-device-review-fee-plan-passes-senate.html
The Food and Drug Administration won
U.S. Senate approval for its $6.4 billion fee agreement with  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and other companies that will fund
regulatory reviews of new medicines and devices through 2017.  The legislation, passed by the Senate yesterday in a 96-1
vote, raises the so-called user fees that industries will pay
the FDA for safety and efficacy reviews by more than $2 billion
from the previous five-year period. The bill is scheduled for a
vote in the House of Representatives as early as next week,
where it can then move toward becoming law by Oct. 1.  Drugmakers in September and device companies in February
agreed to the increased payments in exchange for a promise of
faster reviews of products they are trying to bring to market.
The bill also includes measures to speed approval of treatments
for life-threatening conditions, enhance safety monitoring of
devices after clearance and mitigate drug shortages.  “This bill’s passage is a victory for the millions of
Americans who need medicines or medical devices and for the kind
of cooperation that we see all too rarely in Washington,” said
Senators  Tom Harkin , a Democrat from Iowa, and Mike Enzi, a
Wyoming Republican, in a statement. The bill will “improve
American families’ access to lifesaving drugs and medical
devices.”  Brand-name drugmakers will pay $4.1 billion, 6 percent more
than the previous five-year period, while fees for device makers
will more than double to $609 million, according to the
Congressional Budget Office’s  cost estimate . Fees from makers of
brand-name drugs fund about 60 percent of FDA reviews, while the
increase in device payments will support about 35 percent.  Generic Drugs  Generic-drug companies, which had been exempt from user
fees, will pay $1.56 billion. Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based
 Mylan Inc. (MYL) , the largest U.S. maker of copycat medicines, led its
industry effort to participate in the fee program to quicken
review times and deal with a backlog of applications, as well as
to ensure the  FDA  has the resources to inspect foreign plants.  Companies making generic versions of complex biologic
drugs, a process not allowed until passage of President  Barack Obama ’s health law in 2010, will pay a user fee, which the
budget office determined would total $128 million through 2017.  Pharmaceutical companies have paid the fees since 1992 and
device makers began their system in 2002. The current five-year
program must be reauthorized by Oct. 1.  The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act,
S. 3187, also includes placeholder language to create a national
tracking system that senators will complete as they reconcile
their bill with the legislation in the House. The effort by
Senators Michael Bennet, a Democrat from Colorado, and  Richard Burr , a Republican of  North Carolina , would help the FDA better
police drugs from manufacturing to distribution to pharmacies.  Tracking Program  The senators are negotiating the system with the
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America. The
Washington-based lobbying group for drugmakers such as  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  has supported a tracking system in the past, Kate Connors,
a spokeswoman for the organization said in an e-mail.  Senators voted against an amendment from Senator  John McCain , a Republican from  Arizona , that would have allowed drug
importation from Canada. Senators rejected a similar effort in
2009 to attach language to Obama’s health law allowing cheaper
medicines from other countries into the U.S.  “Somebody tell me why we can’t tell the struggling family
they can use their own money to purchase safe drugs from a
Canadian pharmacy at sometimes 50 percent less,” McCain said
during debate before his amendment was voted down.  Drug Importation  Border agents can’t ensure only drugs from approved
Canadian pharmacies make it into the U.S., Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, said.  The pharmaceutical lobbying organization agreed to
contribute $80 billion over 10 years in support of the health
law in exchange for protections against importation.  The FDA allowed for temporary importation of unapproved
foreign drugs from India in February to give ovarian cancer and
multiple myeloma patients access to the  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  drug
Doxil, which was in short supply after the  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based company’s contract manufacturer said it planned to
get out of the business. The FDA only relies on foreign sources
when it can’t resolve a shortage with already approved drugs.  Senators shot down an amendment from Senator  Richard Durbin , a Democrat from Illinois, that would have required
dietary supplement makers to register their products with the
FDA, including a list of ingredients. Durbin called in April for
caffeine limits on energy drinks such as  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s Full
Throttle and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s AMP energy because of the potential
health risks from overconsumption.  Sunscreen Labeling  An amendment from Senator  Jack Reed , a Democrat from  Rhode
Island , to make the FDA enforce regulations on labeling and
testing of over-the-counter sunscreen starting Dec. 17 was
successfully attached to the bill. The label changes include
banning the words “sweatproof” and “waterproof” and
requiring products with sun protection factors, or SPFs, below
15 to state that they don’t prevent skin cancer or early aging.  The FDA, which intended to require compliance with the
changes by June, said May 11 it would delay the compliance dates
for at least six months. The agency cited estimates from the
Personal Care Products Council and the Consumer Healthcare
Products Association that demonstrated companies’ need for more
time to re-label and test the products.  The legislation also requires companies to report potential
drug shortages to give regulators time to find alternate
sources. Shortages, including cancer treatments, almost tripled
to 178 in 2010 from 61 in 2005, according to a FDA report
released in October.  FDA Meetings  In addition, device companies, including Minneapolis-based
Medtronic, and drugmakers obtained additional meetings with the
FDA throughout the review process so companies can attempt to
deal with concerns rather than receive a rejection letter. The
legislation also directs the agency to help companies with
medicines for life-threatening diseases plan clinical
development programs that will most likely gain speedy approval.  Lawmakers sought to adjust device oversight, requiring
post-market studies and pushing the FDA to implement a system to
electronically track devices.  The House plans to take up its bill the week of May 28,
Laena Fallon, a spokeswoman for House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  