-- Fiat Open to More Product Sharing With Mazda, CEO Says
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-05-24T18:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/fiat-open-to-more-product-sharing-with-mazda-ceo-says.html
Fiat SpA (F)  is willing to team up with
 Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  on models and engines beyond a roadster that
the automakers plan to build together, Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said.  “We have one project where we shared the same objectives
and to the extent that projects like that continue to be
available, we’ll look at them,” he told reporters today at a
Chrysler Group LLC factory in Belvidere,  Illinois .  Fiat and Mazda said yesterday that they will jointly
develop a sports car and discuss further cooperation in  Europe .
The project will yield a successor to Fiat’s Alfa Romeo Duetto
Spider based on technology from Hiroshima, Japan-based Mazda’s
MX-5 Miata, a person familiar with the matter said yesterday.  “I would be willing to make cars for Mazda anywhere in the
world where I have capacity, including Chrysler plants,”
Marchionne said today. Fiat, based in Turin,  Italy , holds a
majority stake in Chrysler.  Marchionne, 59, plans to merge Fiat and  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler and increase sales to more than
100 billion euros ($125 billion) by 2014. He has said he’s
searching for a third partner to help counter overcapacity in
Europe and boost sales in  Asia , the group’s weakest region.  The Illinois factory where he spoke today assembles
Chrysler’s new Dodge Dart small car. The plant is adding a third
crew of workers in the third quarter to increase output of the
Dart, which Marchionne has called the most important new model
for Chrysler since Fiat took control of the automaker in 2009.  Cooperation Yardstick  The Dart will be a measure of the effectiveness of the
cooperation between Chrysler and Fiat, which took control during
the U.S. company’s government-assisted bankruptcy. Fiat vowed to
provide small-car expertise in exchange for scale that would
spread fixed costs such as engineering and design. The Dart is
Chrysler’s first car based on Fiat architecture.  Fiat boosted its ownership of Chrysler to 58.5 percent in
January after committing to build a Dart that achieves 40 miles
(64 kilometers) per gallon of gasoline. The United Auto Workers
union’s retiree health-care trust owns the remaining stake.  Marchionne reiterated that he sees a likelihood of more
than 50 percent that Fiat will exercise an option to boost
its Chrysler stake. The option, which can be exercised starting
July 1 and covers 40 percent of the UAW trust’s holdings, allows
Fiat to buy as much as 8 percent of the trust’s interests every
six months through June 2016, according to regulatory filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  