-- FIFA Asks Members to Back Reforms After Bribery Allegations
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-24T15:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/fifa-asks-members-to-back-reforms-after-bribery-allegations.html
FIFA President Sepp Blatter will
tomorrow ask world soccer’s 208 national associations to approve
the first in a series of measures to combat corruption and bring
transparency.  Blatter, 76, last year sealed a fourth four-year term as
the head of the organization that oversees the $5 billion  World
Cup . He promised action after criticism from sponsors, fans and
governments following a number of bribery allegations.  Delegates at FIFA’s 62nd Congress in Budapest will be asked
to agree on changes to the way it deals with the investigation
and prosecution of corrupt practices, and the creation of a body
to vet the propriety of individuals to sit on its executive.  “There are many inside that are perhaps not in favor but
we have to do something for the good governance of FIFA, for the
transparency of FIFA,”  Michel Platini , president of European
soccer body UEFA, told reporters.  FIFA’s ethics committee was criticized in the wake of last
year’s crisis. If the move is approved, the body will adopt a
two-tier structure split into investigatory and adjudicatory
branches headed by independent chairmen. A new audit and
compliance authority to monitor spending will also be voted on.  Blatter’s re-election came after his only challenger,
former Asian soccer head Mohamed Bin Hammam of Qatar, stood down
a day before FIFA opened a probe into claims he paid $1 million
in bribes to Caribbean voters. He denied the allegations.  Six months earlier the selection of the 2018 and 2022 World
Cup hosts was overshadowed by the removal of members of the
executive board for allegedly offering to sell their votes. At
one point half the board’s 24 members were accused of, or
sanctioned for, wrongdoing.  Age Limits  Blatter enlisted an “independent governance committee,”
headed by Swiss law professor  Mark Pieth , to suggest reforms.
They came up with several suggestions for  FIFA’s  executive board
to consider, including those being looked at tomorrow.  The group’s proposals of age and term limits will be
deferred to next year’s congress in Mauritius, as will a
recommendation from the German federation that the U.K.’s
permanent vice-presidency be removed.  “It is logical that we have postponed these political
matters until next year because it was not possible to discuss
with national associations and confederations,” Platini said.  Blatter yesterday told a meeting of CONCACAF, the North and
Central America and Caribbean soccer body, that he’s not in
favor of age limits. Hany Abou Rida, an executive committee
member from  Egypt , said he’s also opposed.  Blazer Ousted?  “For me, if you have the spirit, the health, why should
you go?” he said in an interview. “You cannot limit anything,
you should let the associations decide.”  FIFA will also be asked to discuss a special motion called
by CONCACAF to remove U.S. official Chuck Blazer from its
executive. The demand came after CONCACAF officials were told
the New York-headquartered organization is subject to an
Internal Revenue Service investigation because Blazer never
filed a  tax return  for the group.  Members will also be asked to ratify the addition of Lydia Nsekera, a member of Burundi’s royal family, to FIFA’s board as
its first female representative. Burundi is the only national
association to be led by a woman.  “I think it’s on time and it’s absolutely positive for the
image and activities of FIFA,” said Karen Espelund, a Norwegian
who last year was invited to become the first woman on UEFA’s
decision-making board. “This will be a sign for associations to
bring more women in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Budapest via the London newsroom at 
3677 or  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  