-- Firefighters Lose as Rising Pensions Spur Broken Promises
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-05-24T20:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/firefighters-lose-as-rising-pensions-spur-broken-promises.html
It has been more than 20 years since
Gilbert McLaughlin ran the fire department in Providence,  Rhode
Island . Yet the former chief stands to be the biggest loser as
the capital of the smallest U.S. state flirts with insolvency.  McLaughlin, 75, is the highest paid of Providence’s 3,000
retired workers, collecting a $196,813 pension this year, the
result of yearly 6 percent cost-of-living increases the city
once bestowed on firefighters and police. Lawmakers, facing a $1
billion deficit and squeezed for cash, ended the automatic
raises and capped annual payouts. Now retirees such as Gillie,
as he is known, won’t see their pay outs double every 12 years.  “No one ever did the math on this,” Paul Doughty, head of
the firefighters union, said in an interview in his office above
the bar at the Firefighters Memorial Hall in Providence. “I
don’t think anyone had any idea that if Gillie lived to 100,
he’d be making $700,000.”  While a Providence official in 1989 warned such giveaways
could one day “bankrupt” the city, the arrangement bought
peace with labor unions, a compromise made in town halls and
state capitals across the country as stock market gains fattened
pension funds. Now lawmakers are trying to rein in benefits.
Since 2009, more than 40 states have lifted retirement ages, cut
automatic raises, or increased employee contributions, typically
targeting new workers to avoid conflicts with laws or contracts.  Broken Promises  It took the longest recession since World War II and a
financial calamity that the U.S. Census Bureau says wiped out 23
percent of public retirement plan assets in 2009 to show how
politicians long promised richer benefits without setting aside
sufficient funds. The average retirement system in 2011 had
about 75 percent of the assets needed to meet commitments, down
from about 100 percent in 2000 amid the technology stock boom,
according to the  Boston College Center for Retirement Research .  “It is an inherently dysfunctional system,” said Steven Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute for Policy
Research, a New York-based nonprofit that tries to foster
individual responsibility and economic choice.  “It allows politicians to make promises that they will not
be responsible for,” Malanga said. “That is why so many perks
were granted to workers for political support that did not have
an immediate impact on the budget.”  Crowding Out Spending  Politicians from Chicago’s Democratic Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  to
New Jersey’s Republican Governor  Chris Christie  are seeking to
overhaul plans where assets have eroded as costs accelerated,
crowding out other spending. According to a report this month
from the Boston College center, required employer contributions
to state and local pensions rose to an average 16 percent of
annual payroll last year, from 6 percent in 2002.  San Jose, the California city that will ask voters next
month to make new workers contribute 50 percent of retirement-
fund payments,  says  it may face a required $320 million retiree
set-aside in 2016, up from $73 million in 2002.  The funding deficit may widen because states and cities
typically have assumed annual returns on invested assets of
about 8 percent when calculating their commitments to retirees.
Rulemakers at the Governmental Accounting Standards Board in
Norwalk,  Connecticut , are weighing a change to force plans to
use different assumptions, effectively widening the funding gap.  If that occurs, taxpayers and public workers would be stuck
with making up the difference to cover their defined-benefit
plans, which guarantee retirees an annual pension for life. Many
plans also provide health-care and other benefits.  It’s Really ‘Worse’  “The bottom line is every pension system is
underestimating the size of the problem,” said Eileen Norcross,
senior research fellow at the Mercator Center, a research group
on George Mason University’s Arlington,  Virginia , campus.
“While things look bad, they are actually worse.”  Providence, established in 1636 and home to  Brown
University , was typical of many Rhode Island municipalities in
the 1980s. While failing to set aside much of what it needed to
cover its obligations, the city had also scrimped on pension
benefits. That left some firefighter retirees, who like many
government workers don’t get Social Security, surviving on less
than $300 a month, Doughty said.  That changed in 1989 after municipal unions gained control
of the city’s retirement board. Backed by court rulings and over
objections from former Mayor Joseph Paolino, a Democrat, the
panel voted to give public-safety workers a top cost-of-living
adjustment of 6 percent annually, as well as to triple the base
benefit payment and reduce the minimum years of service needed
to qualify for retirement.  ‘Bankrupt the City’  “When I looked at the numbers, I knew it was going to be
unsustainable,” said John Simmons, Mayor Paolino’s chief of
administration and who now runs the Rhode Island Public
Expenditure Council, a nonprofit budget group in Providence. “I
knew it would bankrupt the city.”  While some police and firefighters got annual cost-of-
living adjustments of 5 percent and 6 percent, most of the
city’s retirees got 3 percent, officials said. Almost all
guaranteed annual increases in public pensions are 3 percent or
less, according to Ron Snell, a senior fellow at the  National
Conference of State Legislatures .  Paolino sued to block the retirement board, and refused to
fund the new benefits it awarded. His successor, Vincent
“Buddy” Cianci, who left office in 1984 after he pleaded
guilty to an assault charge only to return eight years later,
signed a consent decree in 1992 to end the dispute and pacify
unions. Cianci was later convicted on unrelated corruption
charges and left office again in 2002.  Similar Across U.S.  The circumstances in Providence were unique yet similar
results cropped up across the U.S.  In  California , the euphoria of the 1990s technology stock
bubble supported promises backed by the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , which was fully funded at the time
and now has about 75 percent of needed assets. Gray Davis,
elected governor in 1998 with support from government unions,
the next year signed SB400. The retroactive pension enhancement
let prison guards, firefighters and highway patrol officers
retire at 50 and collect as much as 90 percent of their pay.  The cost of those changes would cascade through California,
forcing local governments to meet the new terms, which Davis
later extended to more workers, according to David Crane, a
former economic adviser to Republican  Arnold Schwarzenegger . The
movie star, who succeeded Davis in a 2003 recall election, tried
to undo some of his predecessor’s enhancements.  Truncated Values  Calpers, as the pension system is known, told lawmakers in
1999 that the added cost of the new benefits would be covered by
investment gains, Crane said. Yet the state has scrambled to
find billions of dollars needed to make up for losses when the
dot-com market bubble burst and again after the financial crisis
truncated equity values a decade later, he said.  “Eight years I worked on that thing and we got it fully
funded and then see the whole thing unplugged,” Dave Elder, a
former Democratic assemblyman from San Pedro who led a
legislative panel overseeing pensions, said of efforts to ensure
Calpers had the funds it needed. “That just makes you want to
go throw up.”  In 1992, former  New Jersey  Governor Jim Florio, a Democrat,
cut required payments to the state retirement system by raising
investment-return assumptions, helping to balance the budget in
the wake of a national recession. Christie Todd Whitman, his
Republican successor, would follow a similar path, cutting
contributions even as she lowered taxes, and then borrowing $2.8
billion in 1997 in a failed effort to make up the gap.  Closing the Gap  Governor Christie, a Republican who took office in 2010,
pushed a pension overhaul last year that closed $17 billion of
New Jersey’s $53.9 billion funding gap. Yet he also skipped
making required contributions as he battled with unions over the
changes. The law he championed requires bigger contributions
from employees and raised the retirement age.  In  Illinois , a pension code of more than 1,000 pages
conceals abuses, said Laurence Msall, president of the Civic
Federation, a nonpartisan government research group in  Chicago .
The tangled statute is the result of years of lawmakers in
Springfield handing benefits to supporters and themselves with
only occasional cost analysis, he said. In 2010, the state had
the worst-funded retirement system with 45 percent of needed
assets, according to a Bloomberg Rankings study.  While the Illinois Legislature in 1994 agreed to fully fund
pensions, Democratic legislative leaders, working first with
former Republican Governor George Ryan and then with Democrat
Rod Blagojevich, found ways to circumvent the rules, Msall said.
They inflated early retirement buyouts and borrowed $17.2
billion over the past decade to try to close the deficit and
cover contributions.  ‘Worst System’  “It is about the worst system that you could create,”
Msall said in a telephone interview. “Over the last three
decades, Illinois’s General Assembly has made a series of
hundreds of decisions where there was very little public
acknowledgment.”  Efforts to rein in retirement costs have produced mixed
results because many of the benefits pledged to workers and
retirees are protected by law or contracts.  While judges in  Arizona , New Hampshire and  Florida  have
blocked states from requiring greater contributions from
workers, jurists in Colorado and  Minnesota  have allowed cuts in
cost-of-living adjustments. In California, protections are so
strong that even after the city of Vallejo entered bankruptcy
court protection in 2008, it didn’t reduce pensions.  Avoiding Tax Increase  Illinois Governor Pat Quinn, a Democrat who replaced
Blagojevich, in April proposed a package of changes that he
hopes can withstand a legal challenge. Unions have pledged to
sue. Emanuel, once President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff, is
also asking state lawmakers to let him avoid a “crushing”
property-tax increase by overhauling Chicago’s pensions.  In Rhode Island, public sector unions have pledged legal
action to block a law Treasurer Gina Raimondo championed last
year. It will save about $3 billion largely by ending annual 3
percent cost-of-living increases for all state workers and
retirees. The changes are set to take effect on July 1.  Doughty said unions representing Providence employees will
head to court to challenge an ordinance signed by Mayor Angel Taveras last month. Taveras, A Democrat, said the city stood at
the brink of insolvency and needed to break contract promises
such as guaranteed annual pension increases to avoid the fate of
Central Falls, the nearby community that last year entered
 bankruptcy protection  partly because of commitments to retirees.  Scapegoating Workers  Public employees are being used as scapegoats by states and
cities that haven’t set aside necessary funds, said Steven Kreisberg, director of collective bargaining at the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees in
 Washington . He said politicians are being “opportunistic” by
playing up retirement-plan abuses while ignoring the fact that
the average government retiree gets less than $30,000 a year.  While about two dozen city retirees collect more than
$100,000 a year in Providence, the average former firefighter
and police pension is about $42,000, Doughty said. McLaughlin,
the fire chief who retired in 1991, when his annual salary was
$63,510, with a disability related to an earlier injury, hung up
when reached by telephone at his home in nearby Warwick.  “Their idea of reform is to basically break the promises
to employees,” Kreisberg said of Democratic and Republican
leaders trying to overhaul public pensions. “The problem is
they thought funding was optional for the past 30 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  