-- Formula One Said to Seek $450 Million for Itself in Asia IPO
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-05-24T09:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/formula-one-said-to-plan-raising-450-million-for-itself-in-ipo.html
Formula One  plans to raise about $450
million for itself by selling new shares as part a $3 billion
initial public offering in  Singapore , said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The IPO may raise $2 billion to $3 billion in total as
existing shareholders sell stakes, the people said, declining to
be identified because the information is private. Investors in
Formula One’s IPO will own a so-called stapled security
consisting of equity and a loan unit, the people said.  Formula One’s existing investors currently hold the loan,
which pays an annual coupon of about 10 percent, one person
said. Borrowing from shareholders helps Formula One keep its tax
bill low, the person said.  The IPO may be Singapore’s largest since February 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company and its
bankers are reaching out to institutions this week and next as
it plans to allocate part of the IPO to so-called cornerstone
investors, the people said.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd., Formula One’s main shareholder,
sold 21 percent of the company to  Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. (WDR) ,
Norges Bank Investment Management and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  for $1.6
billion, the private equity firm said on May 22. Waddell & Reed
invested $1.1 billion, while Norges Bank and BlackRock bought
$300 million and $200 million respectively, one of the people
said.  UBS AG (UBSN)  advised CVC on the stake sale, which valued Formula
One at $7.2 billion, said the person.  A spokesman for CVC wasn’t immediately available for
comment. An outside spokeswoman for Formula One declined to
comment on details of the IPO. Dow Jones reported earlier today
that the company was using a stapled security, citing people it
didn’t identify.  CVC Buyout  CVC bought 63.4 percent of Formula One in 2005 and 2006
using $2.5 billion of loans. The buyout firm is taking Formula
One public after leading racing teams Ferrari, Red Bull and
McLaren agreed to new terms through 2020.  Other shareholders include the administrators of bankrupt
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which may sell its 15.3 percent
stake with the IPO, and Bernie Ecclestone, chief executive of
Formula One who holds 5.3 percent. Ecclestone’s ex-wife Slavica
owns 8.5 percent through Bambino Holdings Ltd.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , UBS and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are lead
managers for the IPO, said the people.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,
 CIMB Group Holdings Bhd (CIMB)  and  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  will also be
bookrunners for the offering, they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  