-- Frauds, Swingers and the Odd Early Days of Credit Cards
-- B y   L o u i s   H y m a n
-- 2012-05-24T18:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/frauds-swingers-and-the-odd-early-days-of-credit-cards.html
As credit cards came into greater use
in the late 1950s and early ’60s, the financial press closely
followed their emergence, especially when the wrong sorts got
access to them.  Consider, for example, Joseph Miraglia. In one month of
orgiastic spending, Miraglia ran up a $10,000 bill entertaining
himself across three countries, four girlfriends and one
rhinestone-collared cocker spaniel. Miraglia was no scion: He
was a clerk from the Lower East Side of Manhattan earning $73 a
week. How did he get into the then-exclusive credit-card club?  In 1959, travel and entertainment charge cards, such as
Diners Club, were just beginning to lose their ground to bank
cards, such as BankAmericard. But the use of credit was still
subject to very real technological and moral constraints.
Miraglia nicely illustrated how both would soon change -- and
foreshadowed some of the consequences.  His adventure began in September 1959, when he ducked into
a fancy  New York  restaurant and saw a pile of Travel and
Entertainment card applications for “men of responsibility.” He
filled out the Hilton Hotels’ Carte Blanche paperwork, complete
with his real pittance of a salary, and, to his surprise,
received a card a few weeks later with a letter that said “this
card is your key to every luxury Hilton has to offer.”  ‘Nice Things’  And indeed it was. Beginning with the Waldorf in New York,
Miraglia hit  Montreal ,  Las Vegas  and  Havana  before running out
of steam. He bought fur coats, fine wines, dogs, meals, suits
and even silk shirts from the same tailor as  Cary Grant . With
only the cash he won at the craps tables and some checks he
wrote against the card, he lived, as he said, “like a
millionaire’s son.”  When the police caught up with him, he said simply, “I
always wanted to see the world, and I like nice things.”  But while Miraglia could live the high life on his Carte
Blanche card, he couldn’t live a normal life. A traveling
businessman with a Carte Blanche could eat in a few swank
restaurants, buy his wife or mistress a fur coat in an
affiliated shop, and maybe get a suit from a neighborhood tailor
who had a relationship with the hotel, but he couldn’t go to K-
Mart. He couldn’t buy groceries. Only places that catered to the
expense account took  American Express (AXP) , and for everything else,
there was cash.  Although Miraglia could spend $10,000 to live like a
millionaire, it would have been almost impossible for him to
spend $10,000 to live like a middle-class person -- much less a
working-class guy from a Lower East Side tenement.  As bank credit cards spread across the country, this
problem would start to confront not just frauds like Miraglia
but increasingly the law-abiding middle class. And while more
stores accepted credit cards in the 1960s and ’70s, moral
concerns about debt were slower to change -- it was as much
attitudes as access that constrained the growth of credit cards.  A 1968 survey found that only 17 percent of Americans had
credit cards, as opposed to the 62 percent who had gas cards. A
1971 study in the Journal of Marketing found that men who used
credit cards were disproportionately affluent, urban and more
likely to agree with statements like “I like to think I am a bit
of a swinger.”  Hippies, Liquor, Credit  Those who didn’t use credit cards led more restrained
lifestyles. Men without cards disproportionately believed that
“hippies should be drafted,” that “liquor is a curse on American
life” and that “a woman’s place is in the home.”  They were not only disproportionately poorer, they also saw
the world differently. Their economic outlook was less
optimistic. They didn’t believe in the benefits of investing in
stock markets at nearly the same rate as those who had credit
cards. They also were less likely to believe they would be
executives in a few years or that their family incomes would go
up.  The optimism that underpinned the credit expansion in the
postwar period found its native expression in the credit card.
Users embraced the good life, confident in a progressive future
of prosperity -- and willingly borrowing from that better
tomorrow today. The swingers embraced the new turbulent era and
charged up the difference between what they had and what they
thought they would be getting very soon. Those who lacked that
optimism continued to find credit use “unwise.”  They may have had a point. Perhaps we would have been wise
to use means other than credit cards to adapt to the swinging
economic fortunes of that postwar world. And perhaps we would
have been better off if the practical and moral impediments to
widespread credit-card use hadn’t been quite so malleable.
Because once you  start using credit  -- as a consumer or as a
nation -- it’s hard to stop.  Miraglia was let off in 1959. The judge evidently
considered his actions youthful indiscretions. But like much
else surrounding postwar credit, his case portended things to
come. In 1984, Miraglia perpetrated what the  New York Times (NYT) 
called the “largest credit card counterfeiting ring ever
encountered in the New York metropolitan era.”  He did a year and a half in federal prison. It’s unclear if
his  credit rating  suffered.  (Louis Hyman is an assistant professor of history at
 Cornell University  and the author of “Borrow: The American Way
of Debt.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Louis Hyman at
 lrh62@cornell.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  