-- French Business Confidence Drops for Second Month on Crisis
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-24T09:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/french-business-confidence-drops-for-second-month-on-crisis-1-.html
French business confidence fell for a
second month as renewed concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
hurt demand diminished prospects of the economy returning to
growth in the second quarter.  Sentiment among factory executives  dropped to 93 in May
from 95 in April, the Paris-based national statistics office
Insee said today. Economists forecast a reading of 94, according
to the median of 20 estimates gathered by Bloomberg News.  Europe’s second-largest economy is struggling to expand as
leaders grapple with a crisis that the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said this week risks spiraling and
seriously damaging the world economy. The OECD predicts economic
growth in  France  will slow to 0.6 percent this year from 1.3
percent in 2011.  “This is highly worrisome for second and third-quarter
growth,” said  Dominique Barbet , an economist at BNP Paribas in
Paris. “The outlook is getting bleaker.”  German business confidence also declined, the Munich-based
Ifo institute said today. The Ifo  business climate index  fell to
106.9 from 109.9 in April. Economists forecast a decline to
109.4, according to the median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Concern about the euro’s prospects have soared since Greek
voters turned against parties who want the country to meet the
terms of its bailout, threatening to force  Greece  to exit the
single currency. A second ballot is scheduled for June 17.  ‘Quite Empty’  In France, where newly elected President  Francois Hollande 
is planning to introduce a revised budget next month, lack of
domestic demand is undermining confidence among executives.  “Order books overall are depleting noticeably and are
judged to be quite empty” and demand is expected “to show
little dynamism in coming months,” Insee said today. “Orders
from abroad are stable.”  A failure to meet the government’s 0.7 percent growth
target this year would force Hollande to further tighten the
French budget in order to meet its target of reducing the
deficit to 4.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2012.  The European Commission said May 11 that France will need
further cuts to meet a promise to cut the deficit to 3 percent
of GDP next year. Spain and  Italy  are also slashing spending and
raising taxes to meet their own deficit goals.  “Fiscal consolidation is taking its toll,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “Spain and
Italy together take 15 percent of French exports. We see the
French economy contracting in the second quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  