-- Frozen Europe Means ECB Must Resort to ELA for Banks
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-25T10:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/frozen-europe-means-ecb-must-resort-to-ela-as-finance-lights-dim.html
The first rule of ELA is you don’t
talk about ELA.  The  European Central Bank  is trying to limit the flow of
information about so-called Emergency Liquidity Assistance,
which is increasingly being tapped by distressed euro-region
financial institutions as the debt crisis worsens. Focus on the
program intensified last week after news leaked that the ECB
moved some Greek banks out of its regular refinancing operations
and onto ELA until they are sufficiently capitalized.  European stocks  fell and the euro weakened on May 16 as
investors sought clarity on how the Greek financial system would
be kept alive. The episode highlights the ECB’s dilemma as it
tries to save banks without taking too much risk onto its own
balance sheet. While policy makers argue that secrecy is needed
around ELA to prevent panic, the risk is that markets jump to
the worst conclusion anyway.  “The lack of transparency is a double-edged sword,” said
 David Owen , chief European economist at Jefferies Securities
International in London. “On the one hand, it increases
uncertainty, but at the same time we do not necessarily want to
know how bad things are as it can add fuel to the fire.”  Under ELA, the 17 national central banks in the euro area
are able to provide emergency liquidity to banks that can’t put
up collateral acceptable to the ECB. The risk is borne by the
central bank in question, ensuring any losses stay within the
country concerned and aren’t shared across all euro members,
known as the euro system.  ECB Approval  Each ELA loan requires the assent of the ECB’s 23-member
Governing Council and carries a penalty  interest rate , though
the terms are never made public. Owen estimates that euro-area
central banks are currently on the hook for about 150 billion
euros ($189 billion) of ELA loans.  The program has been deployed in countries including
 Germany ,  Belgium , Ireland and now  Greece . An ECB spokesman
declined to comment on matters relating to ELA for this article.  The ECB buries information about ELA in its weekly
 financial statement . While it announced on April 24 that it was
harmonizing the disclosure of ELA on the euro system’s balance
sheet under “other claims on euro-area credit institutions,”
this item contains more than just ELA. It stood at 212.5 billion
euros this week, up from 184.7 billion euros three weeks ago.  The ECB has declined to divulge how much of the amount is
accounted for by ELA.  Ireland’s Case  Further clues can be found in individual central banks’
balance sheets. In Ireland, home to  Europe ’s worst banking
crisis, the central bank’s claims on euro-area  credit
institutions , where it now accounts for ELA, stood at 41.3
billion euros on April 27.  Greek banks tapped their central bank for 54 billion euros
in January, according to its most recently published figures.
That has since risen to about 100 billion euros, the Financial
Times reported on May 22, without citing anyone.  Ireland’s central bank said last year it received “formal
comfort” from the country’s finance minister that it wouldn’t
sustain losses on collateral received from banks in return for
ELA.  “If the collateral underpinning the ELA falls short, the
government steps in,” said Philip Lane, head of economics at
Trinity College Dublin. “Essentially, ELA represents the ECB
passing the risk back to the sovereign. That could be the
trigger for potential default or, in Greece’s case, potential
exit.”  Greek Exit  The prospect of Greece leaving the euro region increased
after parties opposed to the terms of the nation’s second
international bailout dominated May 6 elections. A new vote will
be held on June 17 after politicians failed to form a coalition,
and European leaders are now openly discussing the possibility
of Greece exiting the euro.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has fallen almost 6 percent this
month, while the euro is headed for a fourth weekly decline
against the dollar.  A Greek departure could spark a further flight of deposits
from banks in other troubled euro nations, according to  UBS AG (UBSN) 
economists, leaving them more reliant on funding from monetary
authorities. Banks in Greece, Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain 
saw a decline of 80.6 billion euros, or 3.2 percent, in
household and corporate deposits from the end of 2010 through
March this year, according to ECB data.  “ELA is a symptom of the strain in the system, and Greece
is the tip of the iceberg here,” Owen said. “As concerns mount
about break-up, that sparks deposit flight. Suddenly we’re
talking about 350 billion, 400 billion as bigger countries avail
of ELA.”  German ELA  ELA emerged as part of the euro system’s furniture in 2008,
when the global financial crisis led to the bailouts of German
property lender Hypo-Real Estate AG and Belgian banking group
Dexia. While the Bundesbank’s ELA facility has now been closed,
Dexia Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani told the bank’s
shareholders on May 9 that it continues to access around 12
billion euros of ELA funds.  ELA was a measure that gave central banks more flexibility
to keep their banks afloat in situations of short-term stress,
said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at Citigroup
Global Markets in  London .  “It seems to be now a more permanent feature in the
periphery countries,” Michels said, adding there’s a risk that
“the ECB loses control to some extent over what’s going on.”  ‘Life Support’  The ECB was forced to confirm on May 17 it had moved some
Greek banks onto ELA after the news leaked out, roiling
financial markets. The ECB said in an e-mail that as soon as the
banks are recapitalized, which it expected to happen “soon,”
they will regain access to its refinancing operations. The ECB
“continues to support Greek banks,” it added.  By approving ELA requests, the ECB is ensuring that banks
that would otherwise not qualify for its loans have access to
liquidity.  “The ELA is a perfect life-support system, but it’s not a
system for what happens after that,” said Lorcan Roche Kelly,
chief Europe strategist at Trend Macrolytics LLC in Clare,
Ireland. “What you need is a bank resolution mechanism, a
method to get rid of a bank that’s insolvent. In Ireland, and
perhaps in Greece as well, the problem is that you’ve got
banking systems that are insolvent.”  For Citigroup chief economist  Willem Buiter , there is a
bigger issue at stake. ELA breaks a key rule that is designed to
bind the monetary union together, he said.  “It constitutes a breach of the principle of one monetary,
credit and liquidity policy on uniform terms and conditions for
the whole euro system,” Buiter said. “The existence of ELA
undermines the monetary union.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  