-- Fukushima’s Estimated Radiation Leak Doubles Versus Government
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a ,   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-05-24T09:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/fukushima-s-estimated-radiation-leak-doubles-versus-government.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s crippled
Fukushima nuclear plant may have released twice as many
radioactive particles than  Japan ’s government estimated, the
utility said in a report today.  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant may have emitted about 900,000
terabecquerels of the iodine equivalent of radioactive iodine
131 and cesium 137 into the air at the height of the disaster,
the utility known as Tepco said today in a statement. The amount
is about 2 times more than the 480,000 terabecquerels estimated
in February by the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency or NISA,
the utility said.  The total radiation release at the Chernobyl accident was
estimated to be about 5.2 million terabecquerels.  Several domestic and international studies have argued
estimates by Japan’s nuclear regulator were too low on the
radiation release from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, which had
three reactor core meltdowns after it was hit by an earthquake
and tsunami on March 11 last year.  The operator of the plant provided its first estimate on
the atmospheric radiation release more than 15 months after the
disaster, which forced about 160,000 people to evacuate and left
about 132 square kilometers as a no-go zone, some of it
uninhabitable for decades.  Reports on how much radiation was emitted from the Dai-Ichi
plant will continue to be published, with the United Nations
Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation set to
release a paper in May 2013. That report by the group known as
UNSCEAR will be the the first global and independent assessment
of the Fukushima nuclear accident.  More Reports  The UNSCEAR report will be key as it will be arrived at by
international consensus, not just Japanese authorities, said
Hidenori Yonehara, director of the Regulatory Science Research
Program at the National Institute of Radiation Sciences, in
March this year. His research group is one of the Japanese
agencies helping UNSCEAR.  UNSCEAR, which was the international body recognized as the
authority on radiation fallout from the Chernobyl reactor
explosion in 1986, aims to give an analysis of radiation dosages
among citizens and forecast health risks in the coming decades,
Chairman Wolfgang Weiss said by telephone from Vienna in March
this year.  It will give an estimate of the total radiation release
from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station and publish a study
showing how children’s health is affected by radiation, he said.  WHO Report  About 60 industry officials and scientists from 18
countries, including those who investigated the Chernobyl
accident, met for the first time in October to start on the
report, Weiss said. The committee is working with five other UN
agencies, including the  World Health Organization  and the  Food
and Agriculture Organization , and Japanese counterparts.  The World Health Organization yesterday released a report
estimating residents of Fukushima prefecture outside of the no-
go zones were exposed to relatively low doses of radiation
between 1 millisievert to 10 millisieverts. In prefectures
neighboring Fukushima, the dose is estimated between 0.1
millisieverts to 10 millisieverts and the rest of Japan may have
got as much as 1 millisieverts, it said.  Cumulative exposure to 100 millisieverts raises the risk of
death from cancer by 0.5 percent, according to Japan’s National
Institute of Radiological Sciences.  “I think it is very important that an international and
neutral scientific body with the credibility of the WHO publish
its first estimates of the potential doses received by those
people living in the most-affected regions, as well as in Japan
or the rest of the world,” said Evan Douple, Associate Chief of
Research at the Hiroshima Radiation Effects Research Foundation.  ‘Quite Low’  “Although it relied heavily on information from the
government of Japan, the body of experts incorporated some
additional sources of information so as to confirm the early
estimates and previously suggested appraisals that the levels of
exposure doses were quite low to a large percentage of the
exposed population,” said Douple.  The estimate released today by Tepco on the atmospheric
release covers a period between March 12 and 31 as the emissions
after April are estimated to be less than 1 percent of the
amount leaked in March, the utility said.  Tepco said about 11,000 terabecquerels of iodine 131 and
3,600 terabecquerels of cesium 137 may have leaked into the sea
from the plant between March 26 and Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  