-- GE Oil & Gas Unit in Talks to Build Plant at Batista’s Acu Port
-- B y   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f
-- 2012-05-24T11:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/ge-oil-gas-unit-in-talks-to-build-plant-at-batista-s-acu-port.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is in talks with
EBX Group Co. Ltd. to build a plant at Superporto do Acu, the
port controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  in the
state of Rio de Janeiro, and may make a decision this year.  “Once we reach a positive consensus for both companies, we
can move forward,” said Joao Geraldo Ferreira, GE Oil & Gas’s
Chief Executive Officer for  Latin America , in an interview at
Bloomberg’s office in Sao Paulo on May 21. “It would make sense
from the point of view of establishing a bigger operation in
 Brazil , continuing the commercial ties that already exist with
the group.”  GE hasn’t decided which types of service or equipment to
produce at the new plant or the amount to be invested, he said.  GE’s oil and gas unit plans to invest $194.5 million this
year to revamp and boost capacity at its three existing plants
in the states of Sao Paulo and  Rio de Janeiro , according to
Ferreira. Latin America is “very promising” for oil and gas
exploration and production, with Brazil accounting for most of
GE Oil & Gas’s revenue in the region, he said.  The company’s revenue in Latin America is expected to grow
by a double-digit percentage this year and by more than the
market average, Ferreira said, without disclosing any numbers.  LLX Logistica SA, Batista’s port operator, is in
“preliminary negotiations” for new letting contracts in its
Superporto do Acu and hasn’t signed any definitive agreements
yet, the company said in a regulatory filing on May 17.  Americas’ Biggest Port  LLX already has five letting contracts for the port,
including agreements with NKT Flexibles I/S and Technip SA’s
Brazilian unit, according to the filing. LLX expects total
revenue from letting contracts at Acu of about 250 million reais
($123 million) by 2014, it said. Batista has said Acu will be
the biggest port in the Americas and the third-biggest globally.  GE Oil & Gas has agreements to supply equipment to
Batista’s oil company OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA,
according to a regulatory filing on May 14. Shipbuilder OSX
Brasil SA, also controlled by Batista, is among GE Oil & Gas’s
clients, Ferreira said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katerina Petroff in  Sao Paulo  at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  