-- Geithner Says U.S. ‘Paralysis’ Worsens Economic Problems
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-05-24T21:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/geithner-says-u-s-paralysis-worsens-economic-problems.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  said “paralysis” in the U.S. political system has
worsened the nation’s economic challenges.  The damage from the financial crisis was especially severe
because the economy was weakened by declining public
infrastructure and rising public debt, he said today.  “Our economic challenges are tough, but the critical test
we face is a political challenge,” Geithner said in a speech at
the commencement ceremony for the Johns Hopkins University Paul
H. Nitze  School of Advanced International Studies  in Washington.
“We just need to rediscover the political ability to solve the
big problems still ahead of us.”  Republicans rejected President  Barack Obama ’s $3.8 trillion
election-year budget plan, saying it didn’t go far enough to
reduce the deficit or boost economic growth. Obama’s proposed
budget, while initially boosting the  U.S. economy , would later
this decade become a drag on growth, the non-partisan
 Congressional Budget Office  said April 20.  Geithner said the country’s challenges are “magnified
today by the paralysis in our political system.” He cited the
“brave work” of his predecessor, former U.S. Treasury
Secretary Henry M. Paulson, and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  for their role in the financial crisis.  ‘Healthy Skepticism’  Geithner urged students to retain a healthy skepticism
about the world. “Be skeptical of those offering excessive
conviction on any issue,” Geithner told the school from which
he obtained a masters degree. “Don’t expect people to behave
rationally.”  Geithner graduated from the school, often referred to as
SAIS, with a masters in International Economics and East Asian
Studies in 1985, according to his biography posted on the
Treasury Department’s website.  “What we experienced in 2008 and 2009 was a terrible
crisis, caused by a shock larger than what caused the Great
Depression,” the Treasury secretary said. “Today, the country
is still living though the aftershocks, and we will be for some
time.”  SAIS enrolls about 600 full-time students in
 Washington , primarily in the school’s two-year master of arts
program, according to the school’s website. The school also has
campuses in Bologna, Italy, and Nanjing,  China , the website
says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  