-- French, Austrian Bonds Jump as Investors Seek Havens With Yield
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-05-24T15:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/german-bonds-decline-after-eu-leaders-summit-as-gdp-expands-0-5-.html
French and Austrian bonds rose,
sending their five-year yields to record lows, as investors
favored higher-yielding alternatives to German securities amid
the deepening euro-area sovereign debt crisis.  Austria ’s two-year yields also dropped to an all-time low
after a European Union summit ended with leaders divided over
joint debt sales. The region’s temporary rescue fund, the
European Financial Stability Facility, sold three-year
securities at a yield spread of 104 basis points more than
German notes with a similar maturity, providing investors
another choice.  “ France  is coming back nicely in the hunt for yield,”
said Dagmar Dvorak, a director of fixed income and currency at
Baring Asset Management in London, which oversees $15 billion of
fixed-income assets. “It’s recognition that there are core, or
semi-core countries, where you can put your money fairly
safely.”  The French  five-year yield  decreased 16 basis points, or
0.16 percentage point, to 1.37 percent at 4:32 p.m.  London  time,
after being as low as 1.355 percent. The 1.75 percent security
due February 2017 gained 0.72, or 7.20 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,254) face amount, to 101.72. Thirty-year yields plunged 24
basis points to 3.18 percent.  Austria’s five-year yield slipped 12 basis points to a
record 1.27 percent, while its two-year note yields dropped nine
basis points to 0.41 percent.  Bond Volatility  The nations’ securities were the most volatile  government
bonds  among euro-area markets today, followed by  Belgium ,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield
spreads and credit-default swaps. The Belgian 10-year yield
decreased 16 basis points to 3.08 percent.  French bonds held their eighth day of gains after Moody’s
Investors Service said plans by the government of newly elected
President  Francois Hollande  to control his nation’s debt are
positive for France’s credit outlook and necessary to maintain
an Aaa grade.  “The new administration’s strong commitment to the
achievement of sustainable public finances is credit-positive,”
Moody’s said today in a ‘Credit Opinion’ report. Moody’s took no
rating action and kept France at Aaa with a negative outlook.  German 10-year yields were little changed at 1.39 percent,
after being as low as 1.351 percent, the least on record.  Divided Summit  That left the extra yield, or spread, that investors get
for buying 10-year French bonds over similar-maturity German
bunds at 115 basis points, from 136 basis points yesterday.
Five-year French notes yielded 89 basis points more than their
German peers, from 108 basis points yesterday.  EU leaders meeting in Brussels late yesterday came up with
no new measures to end the crisis. The 18th summit held during
the financial turmoil concluded with AAA rated countries saying
joint borrowing would force up their own borrowing costs and
give deficit-prone states an incentive to keep spending.  “A lot of uncertainty remains in place,” Dvorak said.
“There has been less of a solution than the market probably
expected from yesterday’s summit.”  The EFSF sold 3 billion euros of securities due in June
2015 at 18 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘No Brainer’  “With German yields at these levels, it’s very difficult
to go and chase them,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “It’s a no
brainer,” Ostwald said, referring to the relative
attractiveness of the EFSF notes on sale today and the
securities of countries including France and Austria.  German debt has returned 3.4 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. France’s securities gained 4
percent and Austria’s 4.5 percent.  Investors favored bonds from the region’s stronger
countries as a report showed European services and manufacturing
output contracted more than economists forecast.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries in the 17-nation euro area fell to 45.9 from
46.7 in April, London-based Markit Economics said today.
Economists had forecast a drop to 46.6, the median of 14
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. The Munich-based
Ifo institute said its business climate index slid to 106.9 from
109.9 in April, more than economists estimated.  Yields are “reflecting quite significant uncertainty at
the moment, so the market is pricing in a very weak scenario,”
said Rasmus Rousing, a fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Zurich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  