-- German Exports Drove First-Quarter Economic Growth of 0.5%
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-24T06:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/german-exports-drove-economic-growth-of-0-5-in-first-quarter.html
Germany’s economic expansion in the
first quarter was driven primarily by exports, a detailed
breakdown of the data shows.  Exports rose 1.7 percent from the fourth quarter of 2011,
the  Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today. Gross
domestic product in  Europe ’s largest economy increased 0.5
percent, the office said, confirming an initial estimate
published on May 15. Exports added 0.9 percentage point to
growth.  The German economy, Europe’s largest, is outperforming its
euro-area neighbors as the sovereign debt crisis continues to
batter nations from Greece to Spain. Exporters of goods
including cars are benefitting from demand in faster growing
 emerging markets  such as  China , and falling unemployment is
aiding domestic  consumer spending .  “It’s a clever strategy to be selling your goods where the
action is and not just on your doorstep,” said Jens Kramer, an
economist at NordLB in Hanover. “Both foreign and domestic
demand are driving the German economy.”  The euro was little changed after the report and traded at
$1.2570 at 8:11 a.m. in Frankfurt.  Consumption, Investment  Private consumption rose 0.4 percent in the first quarter,
contributing 0.2 percentage point to growth, and  government
spending  increased 0.2 percent, today’s report shows.  Capital
investment  dropped 1.1 percent from the fourth quarter, with
construction sinking 1.3 percent. Domestic demand cut 0.3
percentage point from first-quarter growth, according to the
report.  German growth in the first three months of the year offset
declines in GDP in at least five other countries and helped to
prevent the euro-area economy from shrinking for a second
straight quarter.  Germany’s economy, which contracted 0.2 percent in the
final quarter of 2011, will grow 0.7 percent in 2012 and 1.7
percent in 2013, the European Commission forecast on May 11. By
contrast, the euro region’s and those of seven member countries
will shrink this year, it said.  “The German economy has avoided a recession and staged an
impressive growth comeback,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior
European economist at ING Group in Brussels. “The rest of the
euro zone, however, will have to continue its quest for
growth.”  German Decoupling?  Evonik Industries AG, the German specialty chemicals maker
that’s preparing an initial stock sale, raised its 2012 profit
and sales forecasts on May 11, after first-quarter results were
better than the company had expected.  At the same time, Metro AG,  Germany ’s biggest retailer,
yesterday stuck to a forecast that profit won’t increase this
year as consumers limit spending amid doubts over the effects of
the debt crisis on the economy.  “Germany has consistently decoupled from what’s going on
in the euro area,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior European
economist at Nomura International PLC in  London . “The question
is how long can this continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  