-- German Business Confidence Fell in May on Greek Concern
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-24T08:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/german-business-confidence-fell-in-may-on-greek-concern.html
German business confidence fell more
than economists forecast in May as speculation that  Greece  might
leave the euro area clouded the economic outlook.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said today its  business
climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to
106.9 from 109.9 in April. That’s the steepest decline since
August, when the region’s debt crisis spread to Italy and  Spain ,
and below all 37 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  of
economists. The median forecast was for a decrease to 109.4.  Concern about Greece’s future in the euro region mounted
after elections this month failed to produce a government and
saw support grow for parties opposed to austerity measures. A
second ballot will be held on June 17. While Germany’s economy
expanded more than forecast in the first quarter, helping to
keep the euro area as a whole out of recession, another report
today showed German manufacturing contracted at the fastest pace
in almost three years in May.  “Today’s reports indicate that the second quarter will be
significantly weaker than the first,” said  Aline Schuiling , an
economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The euro region,
Germany’s biggest export market, is struck by austerity and
Greece is a story on its own. The German economy will stagnate
in the second quarter at best and the euro region will contract
again.”  ‘People Feel Uncertain’  Ifo said its gauge of the current situation fell to 113.3
from 117.5, while a measure of executives’ expectations sank to
100.9 from 102.7. The euro extended losses after the report and
traded at $1.2548 at 10:40 a.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.3 percent
today.  “If you look at the indebtedness of some countries
affected by the euro crisis, if you see what risks continue to
exist, it means that lots of people feel uncertain, and
uncertain people prefer to step back from purchasing,”
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG board member and head of purchasing
Klaus Draeger said at a conference in Stuttgart yesterday. “And
we see this in the low vehicle sales in countries in southern
 Europe  in particular.”  European leaders, who last night held their 18th summit in
more than two years of crisis fighting, clashed over joint debt
sales as they called on Greece to stick with the budget cuts
needed to stay in the euro. The Bundesbank suggested yesterday
that  Germany  could cope with a Greek exit.  Greek Exit  By “threatening not to implement the reform and
consolidation measures it agreed to in return for sizable rescue
programs,” Greece is “jeopardizing the continuation of aid
payments,” Germany’s central bank said in its monthly report.  “Greece would have to bear the consequences of such a
decision. The challenges for the euro area and Germany would be
significant but manageable with the help of cautious  crisis
management .”  Gross domestic product in Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, expanded 0.5 percent in the three months through March
after contracting 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011.
That offset GDP declines in at least five other countries and
helped to prevent the euro-area economy from shrinking for a
second straight quarter.  The European Commission predicts the 17-nation euro economy
will contract 0.3 percent this year before returning to growth
in 2013. It forecasts 0.7 percent expansion in Germany in 2012.  GDP Breakdown  As demand wanes in the euro region, German companies are
focusing on faster growing Asian markets to fill order books.
First-quarter profits at BMW,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  all
beat analyst estimates. VW’s Audi unit will create 2,000 new
jobs in Germany this year.  Germany’s statistics office said today that first-quarter
growth was mainly driven by trade and domestic consumption.
Exports surged 1.7 percent from the first quarter, private
spending rose 0.4 percent and government consumption increased
0.2 percent, while  capital investment  dropped 1.1 percent,
according to the report.  A measure of activity in Germany’s manufacturing industry,
based on a survey of purchasing managers by Markit Economics,
fell to 45 in May, the lowest level since June 2009. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  “Germany is suffering from weak demand in the euro region
and benefiting from solid orders from the rest of the world,”
said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt.  While companies from  Hugo Boss AG (BOS)  to  Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  say they
are profiting from increasing  consumer spending ,  Metro AG (MEO) ,
Germany’s biggest retailer, said yesterday it’s sticking to a
forecast that profit won’t rise this year as households fret
about the outlook.  Consumer confidence  dropped for a second month in May even
as unemployment held at the lowest level in two decades and
workers secured pay increases.  “German companies are quite optimistic but there are
limits,” said Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF Bank AG in
Frankfurt. “The debt crisis will damp business confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  