-- German Power Set For Record Slide Without Carbon Fix
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-05-24T14:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/german-power-set-for-record-slide-without-carbon-fix.html
The European Union’s failure to
decide whether to curb supplies of emission permits is sending
prices for electricity in  Germany , Europe’s largest market,
toward their biggest losing streak since at least 2006.  Power for 2013 delivery has fallen as much as 8.8 percent
this year to a record low today, according to broker data
compiled by Bloomberg. It may decline a further 7.1 percent by
November, according to UBS AG. Adapto Advisors AB, a hedge- fund
manager , forecasts an additional 5 percent slide this year.  Electricity prices are tumbling as coal trades near its
weakest level in 19 months and carbon permits, which fossil-fuel
producers must buy to operate, stay near all-time lows. While
that’s benefiting consumers such as Bayerische Motoren Werke AG
and steelmaker  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , it’s hurting utilities including
EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , stoking calls for the EU to ease the surplus
of permits caused by the economic slowdown.  “German power will most likely fall further without
intervention by the EU,” Fredrik Adolfson, a fund manager at
Adapto in  Stockholm  and an energy trader for 13 years, said in a
May 18 telephone interview. “Coal prices have been depressed
and we don’t see this changing in the short term, adding to the
downward pressure on power,” said Adolfson, whose fund gained 4
percent from January through April.  Record-Low Price  Electricity for 2013 delivery in Germany, a European
benchmark, traded at 48.75 euros ($61.32) a megawatt-hour, up
0.3 percent, at 4 p.m. Berlin time after sliding to a record of
48.40 euros earlier today, according to broker prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  Prices may drop as low as 45 euros by November, Patrick Hummel, an analyst at UBS in Zurich, said May 10 by e-mail. That
would amount to a 15 percent decline in the first 10 months of
the year, the most since Bloomberg began tracking prices in
2005.  EU carbon permits for December have lost 60 percent of
their value in the past 12 months amid the glut. The surplus
grew to 946 million metric tons in 2011, a 67 percent increase
on the previous year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
The permits traded at $6.79 euros a ton, down 1 cent, at 3 p.m.
on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London.  “Fundamentally, there’s a surplus of permits,” Pawel Smolen, the Berlin-based head of power-production asset
management at  Sweden ’s Vattenfall AB, said by e-mail. “The
price is above 6 euros only thanks to uncertainty over the
future and bets on a possibility of using permits after 2012.”  Smolen, who has held executive positions in the company for
more than 10 years, is in charge of 30 gigawatts of power
capacity in Germany, Sweden,  Netherlands  and  Denmark .  Market Tightening  The supply of permits has increased as Europe’s economy
sputtered amid concern that countries such as  Greece  will
struggle to pay their debt, forcing them to abandon the euro.
Gross domestic product in the 17-nation currency region may
shrink 0.3 percent this year, according to the median of 41
analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg, compared with 1.5
percent growth in 2011.  Efforts by the EU to permanently remove some of the permits
from the market after 2013 have run into opposition from  Poland ,
which relies on coal for about 90 percent of its power
generation needs. The EU commission, the bloc’s executive arm,
is now examining an option to delay some supply until closer to
2020. The measures may still not “do the whole trick,” the
region’s Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said in Brussels
on May 15.  “It is very likely that some form of market tightening
will occur,” Konrad Hanschmidt, a Bloomberg New Energy Finance
analyst in  London , said by e-mail. “The question is more about
when and how EU policymakers could curb allowance supply.”  Bearish Second Half  As many as 700 million tons of allowances may be delayed, a
decision that would push prices up by a “couple of euros,”
according to  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst for Barclays Plc.  “The second half of this year could be very bearish for
emissions prices,” he said in an interview in London on May 22.
“2013 will be slightly better. The uncertainty is around
political intervention.”  European coal fell as low as $98.25 a ton yesterday, its
lowest level since September 2010, and traded at $100 today. A
surplus of the fuel will keep prices from rising in coming
months, Henrich Quick, a principal analyst at  Poyry Oyj (POY1V) , said by
phone from Dusseldorf.  Positive for Consumers  Sliding power prices have been “positive” for industrial
consumers, Roland Schmied, a spokesman for Verband der
Industriellen Energie und Kraftwirtschaft, or VIK, said by phone
from Essen, Germany, on May 21. VIK represents energy users
including  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest car maker, and
ThyssenKrupp, the nation’s biggest steelmaker.  While coal-fired power stations benefit from the decline in
prices, those that use gas are suffering. EON, Germany’s biggest
utility, is studying the profitability of its gas plants on a
case-by-case basis and hasn’t ruled out permanent closures or
mothballing, Chief Financial Officer Marcus Schenck said on a
May 9 conference call.  Gas-fired plants in Germany are losing about 10 euros a
megawatt-hour by producing electricity, according to a
calculation known as the clean spark spread, which is based on
gas, power and emissions prices for next month. The measure has
been negative since Feb. 8, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Waiting Game  While low prices make forward power contracts attractive
for industrial consumers, it may be more beneficial to wait for
further declines as the summer brings “very low” prices given
Germany’s expansion of solar power, according to John Brottemsmo, senior market analyst at Bergen Energi AS, which
advises companies in managing energy costs.  “We’re looking at attractive levels but perhaps waiting a
bit more is reasonable,” Bergen, Norway-based Brottemsmo said
in a May 23 telephone interview.  Electricity production from solar photovoltaic panels in
Germany jumped 62 percent to 19 terawatt-hours last year,
according to data from Bundesverband Solarwirtshaft, a Berlin-
based lobby group. New solar power capacity amounted to 7,500
megawatts in 2011, more than double the 3,000 megawatts the
government forecast. A megawatt is sufficient to supply about
2,000 European homes.  “We are yet to see what the additional solar in Germany
will do to power prices if we have a sunny summer,” said
Adolfson at Adapto, who declined to comment on assets under
management for his company’s energy fund. “We could see even
more depressed spot prices which filter in to the forward
contracts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  