-- Germany, France, U.K. May Take on Poland Over CO2 Fix End-June
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2012-05-24T11:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/germany-france-u-k-may-take-on-poland-over-co2-fix-end-june.html
Europe ’s three biggest economies may
confront Poland over the need to tighten the bloc’s climate
policies at a meeting of EU leaders on June 28 to June 29,
according to a European lawmaker.  Poland has been blocking ministerial consensus on climate
policies to 2050, which it said may also pave the way for the
European Commission to propose stricter climate goals for 2020.
 Germany ,  France  and the U.K., the region’s three largest
economies by gross domestic product, may join forces to bring
the agreement to the attention of EU leaders, Claude Turmes, a
Luxembourg member of the European Parliament, said today.  “Germany, the U.K. and France are building a coalition
strategy on how to bring pressure on  Poland  in discussions of
tighter targets and a set-aside,” Turmes said from Brussels in
a telephone interview.  Some member states want to intervene in the EU’s emissions
trading system to boost tumbling prices. Oversupply of permits
has grown as Europe’s economy struggled amid concern that
countries such as  Greece  will struggle to pay off debt, forcing
them to abandon the euro. Poland, which relies on coal for about
90 percent of its electricity generation, blocked an EU
declaration on climate policies in March.  The EU is moving toward auctioning of allowances in its
emissions trading system from 2013 after giving most of them to
companies for free since 2005. The planned sales of permits will
be an additional source of revenue for national governments,
which are seeking to boost growth and jobs amid a recession and
debt crisis.  “Finance ministers have understood that they cannot talk
about growth and jobs without addressing the carbon price,”
Turmes said.  Curbing the oversupply of allowances in the world’s biggest
greenhouse gas market and adopting a carbon-reduction target for
2030 could help prices rebound from a record low hit earlier
this year, according to investors including  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc. (RDSA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  