-- Glaxo Diabetes Drug Data Revealed Amid Hostile Takeover
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-05-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/glaxo-diabetes-drug-data-revealed-amid-hostile-takeover.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  will reveal
detailed results today on an experimental treatment for diabetes
that’s part of the reason for a $2.6 billion hostile takeover
bid for  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI) , its partner on the drug.  Glaxo will present data from two of eight late-stage
studies, dubbed Harmony 6 and Harmony 7, of the once-weekly drug
albiglutide ahead of the  American Diabetes Association ’s annual
meeting next month. Abstracts of those studies will be posted on
the ADA website today.  Albiglutide, along with the lupus treatment Benlysta and
darapladib for heart disease, form a trio of drugs Glaxo has
developed with  Human Genome . If approved, the product would
compete with existing medicines from  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) 
and  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , as well as other late-stage experimental
drugs being developed by Sanofi and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , said Ying Huang, a Barclays Capital Inc. analyst in  New York .  “Albiglutide will most likely be a niche product in this
crowded market,” Huang said in an interview. Results from
studies have so far added up to “a mixed bag,” and peak sales
may be less than $500 million in 2020, he said.  The product would compete with Amylin’s Bydureon, approved
in the U.S. in January and currently the only once-weekly
treatment for  Type 2 diabetes  on the market. Amylin, like Human
Genome, has lured suitors for a takeover, including Pfizer Inc.,
AstraZeneca Plc and Merck & Co., people familiar with the matter
said this month.  Less Nausea  Albiglutide may be able to stand out with a lower rate of
nausea and other side effects, and a smaller needle than the one
for Amylin’s Bydureon, said  Gbola Amusa , a UBS AG analyst in
London.  “Glaxo’s drug is reasonably likely to partake in a very
big and dynamic market,” Amusa said in an interview. “So even
if it is a later entrant, it’s still one that can do quite
well.” He estimates sales may reach 453 million pounds ($712
million) in 2018.  About 552 million people, or one in 10 adults, may have
diabetes by 2030, compared with about 366 million now, if
nothing is done to curb the epidemic, the International Diabetes
Federation said in a report in November. As many as 183 million
people have the disease and don’t know it, the Brussels-based
federation said.  Producing Insulin  Albiglutide is a form of a hormone called GLP-1 that
stimulates the pancreas to produce more insulin, which diabetics
need to keep blood-sugar levels under control. Novo Nordisk is
the world’s biggest insulin maker, and its once-daily GLP-1
drug, Victoza, had sales of 5.99 billion kroner ($1 billion)
last year.  In November, Glaxo released some data from Harmony 7 that
showed it failed to help diabetics control their blood-sugar
levels as well as Victoza. That result may not hurt its chances
of regulatory clearance because Bydureon was approved even after
failing to show better efficacy than Victoza, Huang said.  The Harmony 6 trial compared albiglutide with  Eli Lilly ’s
Humalog in patients who also took  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Lantus. Patients
using albiglutide had a 0.82 percent reduction in blood sugar,
compared with a 0.66 percent drop in the Humalog group, Glaxo
said in April.  In the abstracts to be released today and the presentation
at the June diabetes meeting, more detailed results on side
effects and efficacy from both studies will be presented,
according to the company.  Harmony 8 Trial  Harmony 8 will be completed within months, and the other
five studies will be finished early next year, Glaxo has said.
The data received so far on those trials are confidential and
will be used for regulatory filings, the company said last
month.  Glaxo is aiming to rebuild its diabetes business after its
Avandia drug was withdrawn from the market in  Europe  in 2010 and
sales were limited in the U.S. because of an increased risk of
heart attacks. Avandia was once the best-selling diabetes pill
with $3 billion in annual revenue.  Study results on albiglutide are unlikely to affect the
outcome of Glaxo’s hostile takeover bid for Human Genome, Huang
said. Investors are more focused on the  heart-disease  drug
darapladib, which would enter a market that has been dominated
by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s Plavix, he said. That drug, which
lost patent protection on May 17, had $7.09 billion in sales
last year.  Darapladib Data  The first late-stage study on darapladib will conclude next
year and the other in 2014, according to Glaxo.  Last week, Human Genome said it entered into
confidentiality agreements with several pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies other than Glaxo about a “potential
transaction.”  Glaxo this week amended the conditions of its offer to
account for measures the U.S. company adopted to avoid a hostile
takeover. The $13-a-share bid and June 7 expiration date remain
unchanged, Glaxo said.  -- Editors: Kristen Hallam, Thomas Mulier  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  