-- Goldman Sachs Shareholders Vote to Approve Executive Pay
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-24T20:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/goldman-sachs-shareholders-vote-to-approve-executive-pay.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s 2011
executive compensation plan, which awarded Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein $12.4 million, won approval from more
than 94 percent of shareholders.  The tally was announced by General Counsel Gregory K. Palm
at the company’s annual shareholder meeting today in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey . The New York-based company won more support in
the non-binding advisory vote than last year, when 73 percent of
shareholders approved the awards.  All 10 board members at Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, were re-elected by a majority of
shareholders, Palm said. James A. Johnson, the former  Fannie Mae (FNMA) 
CEO who is the longest-serving director and the chairman of the
bank’s compensation committee, had been publicly opposed by
shareholder Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb Inc.  Support for Johnson fell to 83.6 percent from 95.5 percent
last year, according to results published in a  company filing 
after the meeting. About 49 million votes were cast against
Johnson’s re-election, the most of any board member and four
times as many as were cast against Blankfein, who was reelected
with 96.2 percent of the vote, the results showed.  Shareholders rejected three proposals offered at the
meeting by investors, according to Palm. All three had been
opposed by the company’s board of directors.  Executive’s Holdings  One would have provided shareholders with so-called
cumulative voting, which permits investors to withhold votes
from certain director nominees in order to cast multiple ballots
for others. It received approval from 24 percent of voters.  Another that would have required the bank’s named executive
officers to retain at least 75 percent of their stock for at
least three years after leaving the firm was approved by 17
percent.  The third would have required the company to prepare an
annual report disclosing its direct and indirect lobbying
expenditures, and was approved by 7 percent of the voters.  Similar proposals failed at last year’s annual meeting,
with cumulative voting receiving 25.6 percent of the vote and a
proposal requiring stock retention winning 20.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 