-- Gold Boom Spreading Mercury as 15 Million Miners Exposed
-- B y   C a m   S i m p s o n   a n d   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-05-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/gold-boom-spreading-mercury-as-15-million-miners-exposed.html
As he clambered out of bed and onto
his feet one morning late last year, Miguel Angel Cardona, 62,
felt his body betray him. His head grew so heavy it pulled him
tumbling back down.  “You feel fuzzy, like you’re drunk,” recalls the
grandfather of nine, who’s spent most of his life in Segovia, a
gold-mining town in northwestern  Colombia . In the days that
followed he noticed numbness in his hands and fingertips. He
lost 12 pounds, no longer able to stomach the meat, rice and
fried plantains his wife sent with him to work each day at a
single-shaft mine on the edge of town. He worked with drums
filled with mercury, water and crushed stone to process gold.
Cardona suspected his job was poisoning him, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its May 28 issue.  In Segovia, almost 100 shops refine the gold that
prospectors bring down from the foothills of the Andes
Mountains. Juan Camilo Hoyos, 17, had no doubt his work at one
of the shops was toxic. Hoyos operated a smelting oven, and
after inhaling fumes each workday for about two months, he too
lost the fine motor skills in his hands. “I couldn’t draw a
straight line,” he says.  To escape the fumes, Hoyos took a job inside the cashier’s
cage of a store that buys finished gold from the miners. He was
a couple of feet away when a robber pumped nine bullets into a
co-worker, who survived. Still, Hoyos believes his new job is
better for his health than his last one.  Boomtown Poison  With the price of gold reaching a record last year, Segovia
is a boomtown in the 19th century style, with casinos and
brothels squeezed between mining businesses along its main
streets. It’s also likely one of the most poisonous towns in the
world. That’s because the cheapest, easiest way for miners to
refine gold is to mix it with a potentially lethal agent:
 mercury , aka quicksilver.  The town is awash in mercury, which even in small doses can
damage the central nervous system and the lungs or cause  birth
defects . Children are especially vulnerable. At least a dozen
businesses along Segovia’s main drag sell mercury to
prospectors, ladling it out a few ounces at a time into small
plastic bottles with blue screw tops.  Mercury also comes in shiny, steel  cylinders  that hold 76.5
pounds of it, like those locked in a shed at Cardona’s mine.
There, a few feet from a picnic table where workers gather for
breaks, a dark and silvery slush of mercury, rock and water
flows from processing barrels into a wide, cement gutter beside
a mound of gray rock. Nearby, locals bathe their dogs in a
creek, believing the mercury that fills it will cure mange.  Air Mercury Levels  During  tests  in April 2010, Canadian researchers working in
Segovia with the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization found air mercury levels inside gold shops like the
one where Hoyos worked could be almost 1,000 times higher than
public exposure limits set by the  World Health Organization .
Readings 10 times above the standard were common in nearby
residential areas.  Last December in the journal Science of the Total
Environment, researchers concluded these “insane” practices
likely made Segovia the world’s most polluted urban area when it
comes to mercury. Even though some shops have ovens with
evaporation hoods meant to trap mercury, scientists and local
health workers say they’re not enough.  Handling Quicksilver  In addition to the fumes, the watery mix of mud and mercury
left over from processing, known as tailings, is spilled freely,
accounting for a significant source of mercury in the
environment. Most big industrial gold mines don’t use mercury.
But because much of the quicksilver handled by small-scale
miners is released into the ecosystem, their work is the world’s
second-largest source of  man-made mercury  emissions, just behind
burning fossil fuels, the UN Environment Programme estimated in
2008.  Kevin Telmer, a Canadian professor of geochemistry who
heads the nonprofit Artisanal Gold Council, which advocates for
small-scale miners, argues that a slightly different and more
accurate calculation would show far more mercury is released by
the miners. The metal is persistent in the environment, meaning
it accumulates and circulates through evaporation into waterways
and soils. In trace amounts it works its way into the food
chain. Published scientific research over the past 20 years has
tracked high levels of mercury from mining in everything from
fish to breast milk.  ‘Mad as a Hatter’  Mercury’s dangers were well-known before the invention of
tests that could detect it in the bloodstream. The once-common
English expression “mad as a hatter” described the psychotic
symptoms displayed by European hatmakers of the 18th century who
were  poisoned  using mercury to process fur pelts. Similar
expressions can be heard in everyday conversation across
Segovia.  Edgar Segura, who helps run a shop offering quicksilver,
says some of his friends have gone mad inhaling fumes. Aceneth
Castrillon, a local health worker, says town residents exposed
to mercury display symptoms including depression, tremors,
drooling and impotence. She even blames mercury for increased
suicide rates. “Everyone who lives in Segovia is
contaminated,” she says.  An estimated 15 million small-scale miners in  Latin
America ,  Africa  and Asia use quicksilver to refine their gold.
That makes selling mercury an increasingly lucrative business,
and the global market is dominated by a handful of traders who
buy it in bulk, store it and then sell to distributors in gold-
rush nations across the developing world. Like the men who made
fortunes selling pickaxes during the California Gold Rush,
mercury traders today are cashing in on gold fever, but by
selling a hazardous material. Perversely, international efforts
to outlaw the trade are making it more profitable.  Obama-Sponsored Ban  The European Union banned mercury exports in March 2011,
intending to prevent businesses in wealthier nations from
contributing to contamination in places like Segovia. The U.S.
is supposed to do the same next year under a 2008 law sponsored
by then-Senator  Barack Obama . The bans follow more than a decade
of warnings from scientists and environmental groups.  But traders have sailed around international  restrictions ,
raising prices and more than doubling revenues, according to
Colombian customs records and the financial statements of one
top company in the mercury trade obtained by Bloomberg
Businessweek. That company, which has a staff of just two
executives and four administrative employees at its  London 
headquarters, dominates the trade to Colombia and beyond. Its
mercury has flowed from sources in the U.S. and  Kyrgyzstan  to
European and Asian ports, then by sea to Colombia and overland
to distributors in and around Medellín, the capital of one of
Colombia’s primary gold-producing regions. Those distributors
sell to Segovia’s shops and the small mine where Cardona works.  Dusty Outpost  Segovia has about 40,000 residents. Its main streets are
choked with dust kicked up by motor scooters and the occasional
passing horse. The dust doesn’t appear to bother Edgar Segura, a
tan 48-year-old with green eyes, his khaki pants riding below a
small paunch. He spends much of the day leaning back in a
plastic chair planted on the sidewalk outside a small shop
called Almacen Servimineros. (Servimineros is a mash of Spanish
words that roughly translates to Miners’ Supply Store.) The
front door is open, beckoning miners inside. A placard
advertises mercurio for sale at about $74 a pound. Segura knows
mercury is dangerous, and says most customers exhibit a false
bravado. “People think they won’t get  sick ,” he says.  Dip of a Ladle  Inside, clerks dip a plastic ladle into an open red pail of
mercury kept on the floor of an office, doling out small batches
to miners. The prospectors pay more than the advertised rate for
anything less than a pound, and almost everyone leaves the shop
with just a few ounces swishing at the bottom of a plastic
bottle. Almacen Servimineros sells mercury in much larger
quantities, too, including to at least one of the dozens of
local gold processing centers. Segura’s competition is
everywhere. There are mercury sellers on either side of his
shop.  After miners leave Segura’s establishment, they bring their
mercury to processing centers, known in Spanish as entables.
They also bring bags of stones they’ve dug from the hills. The
rocks contain tiny traces of gold and are crushed into grit at
the entables. The pulverized ore is poured into mixing drums
along with mercury and water. Mercury bonds with the gold,
forming a viscous mixture that is pressed by hand into a silvery
wad about the size of a golf ball. The resulting amalgam is
roughly equal parts mercury and gold. The ball goes into an
oven, either at the entable or a gold-buying shop such as one
where Hoyos used to work, or it can be fired with a blowtorch in
an open pan. Either way, the heat causes the mercury to
evaporate, leaving behind the gold. The mercury vapor seeps into
the lungs of workers such as Hoyos -- and into town.  Pliny the Elder  Mercury has been used to refine gold for thousands of
years. During the height of the  Roman Empire , in the first
century AD, Pliny the Elder published a 37-volume encyclopedia,
Natural History, which noted how all forms of matter float on
 quicksilver ’s surface, “with the exception of gold, this being
the only substance that [mercury] attracts to itself. Hence it
is that [mercury] is such an excellent refiner of gold.”  Because mercury isn’t sold on a public exchange, there’s no
spot price for it. An index compiled by the trade journal Metal
Bulletin suggests the  wholesale price  charged by exporters is
soaring. Since early 2003 the value of mercury has risen 1,100
percent, compared with a 376 percent rise for gold during the
same period. The wholesale price for the industry-standard steel
container holding 76.5 pounds of mercury was $1,250 a year ago;
the same “flask” costs $2,100 today. By the time it reaches
the streets of Segovia, it costs a lot more.  Exacting a Higher Price  The $74 per pound price advertised inside the doorway of
Segura’s shop earlier this year is roughly three times the price
cited by Metal Bulletin. Last December, says Segura, the store
bought its mercury from a distributor in nearby Medellín. The
Medellín distributor who supplied the Segovia shop is Insuminer,
according to Segura and his sister Yomaira, who identifies
herself as both the store’s owner and an Insuminer executive.  On the edge of town, Fernando Gomez, co-owner of a small
gold mine called Segovia Minera Gold, unlocks a shed, unscrews
the narrow top of a metal tube, and pours mercury onto his hand.
“We’re used to it,” says Gomez, calling the liquid metal “a
necessary evil.” Like Segura’s shop, the mine buys mercury in
bulk, but it has used a different Medellín distributor. Last
November, says Gomez, his mine bought mercury from  Distribuidora
de Químicos Industriales , or DQI for short. DQI confirmed it
sold mercury to Gomez’s mine, which employs about 100 men.  Squishing Mercury  One of Gomez’s workers is Cardona, the 62-year-old who says
he was so sickened from mercury exposure that he collapsed.
Cardona slings a charcoal-colored baseball cap over his white
hair as he heads for work. He tucks his pants into knee-high,
black rubber boots, the kind English gentlemen wear on wet walks
through the countryside. He used to squish mercury between his
bare fingers and breathe the fumes daily from the processing
drums at the mine. Cardona’s salary from the mine, about $850
per month, supports a household that includes his wife, a
daughter, a son-in-law and four of his grandchildren. On the
advice of a doctor in Medellín, he decided to forgo the pay for
two months to escape mercury.  On a warm day earlier this year, young men working at
Segovia Minera splashed toxic slush from the drums into buckets,
leaving their cheeks, hands and boots coated with mercury-laden
muck.  Impoverished Miners  Mercury isn’t produced in Colombia. So the Medellín
distributors who sell it to Cardona’s mine and Segura’s shop --
DQI and Insuminer -- purchase it from overseas. DQI, which sold
to Cardona’s mine in November, got its biggest shipment in the
months leading up to that sale from a London-based trading
company named Lambert Metals International, according to
Colombian customs records. The almost four-ton shipment was
logged by DQI on April 12, 2011.  During an interview last year, Ruben Escandon, chief
executive officer of the family-run DQI in Medellín, confirmed
he buys from Lambert. He said he started importing it for resale
as the gold rush gathered steam about six years ago. Escandon
knows the dangers of mercury but said he didn’t want to let down
the country’s impoverished miners. For its customers, including
Segura’s shop, the other Medellín distributor, Insuminer,
imported more than nine tons of the toxic metal in the past year
alone, customs data show. And 40 percent of Insuminer’s mercury
came from Lambert Metals, according to an analysis of customs
records and data.  Shipping Tons  The shipments from Lambert Metals were not exceptional.
Since the start of April 2011, the first full month the European
ban was in effect, Colombian importers logged more mercury from
Lambert Metals than from any other company or broker in the
world, according to customs records. Lambert’s six shipments in
that period -- to three different Colombian companies -- totaled
about 21 tons, more than 40 percent of all Colombian mercury
imported then. (Colombian government officials have updated the
data through February.) A third Lambert customer, a Medellín
area distributor called Surtiminas, bought more than seven tons
in the first two months of this year.  Victor Manuel Sosa, chief executive of Surtiminas, says he
sells to mining-related businesses in Segovia and other towns in
the region. He also said the ultimate buyers of his mercury are
responsible for how it’s used. Under country-of-origin
disclosures, Colombian records show Lambert’s mercury came from
two nations: Kyrgyzstan and the U.S. But it took some
significant detours along the way.  Hunting Light Bulbs  In 2006 a U.S. government commodities analyst named William
“Earl” Brooks scoured shelves at home improvement stores near
his home in the northern Virginia suburbs of  Washington . He was
looking for light bulb packages printed with the words, “Made
in the Netherlands.”  Brooks, who covers mercury for the  U.S. Geological Survey ,
had noticed that the Netherlands was becoming the  top
destination  for American mercury exports, an important point
included in his published reports. But Brooks was perplexed
about why the Netherlands would need hundreds of tons of
quicksilver, unless, he says, “it had become the mercury vapor
lamp capital of the world.” Trace amounts of quicksilver are
used to manufacture some  light bulbs . Brooks couldn’t find any
such packages.  Although the data can be unreliable, U.S. trade figures
showed 3 million pounds of mercury shipped to the Netherlands
from 2006 through 2010, accounting for about 56 percent of U.S.
mercury exports in those five years. That’s about 300 tons a
year. The U.S. was a leading global source of mercury in those
years, thanks largely to the decommissioning of plants that used
it in the production of chlorine and caustic soda, Brooks says.  Perplexing Ledger  What he didn’t know was even more perplexing: The Dutch
side of the international trade ledger showed almost no mercury
coming ashore from the U.S. during that same period. Somewhere
in the Atlantic Ocean, between American export logs and the
Netherlands import records, millions of pounds of toxic metal
were simply lost -- at least on paper.  Much of the answer to the missing mercury riddle lies
behind a red door at the end of a brick road in a gated office
park in northwest London. Inside is the headquarters of Lambert
Metals, the company dominating trade to Colombia.  For years, Lambert personnel bought mercury, primarily from
the U.S. and Kyrgyzstan, then had it shipped to the Netherlands’
 Port of Rotterdam , where it was stored in warehouses before
being redistributed in smaller batches to Colombia and other
countries around the world, according to Dutch government
records and a series of e-mails written by Lambert executives,
including to its Dutch shipping agent. The records and e-mails
were obtained by Bloomberg Businessweek under the Netherlands’
freedom of information law and from a consultant who
investigated the trade for the European Union.  Port of Rotterdam  The  Port of Rotterdam  is unlike anything else in western
 Europe , a vast and grim industrial complex snaking 25 miles from
the heart of the city, where the World Port Center rises above
the water, through a series of channels leading into the  North
Sea . More than 434.5 million metric tons of goods moved through
Rotterdam, Europe’s busiest port, last year. Mercury shipments
from the U.S. to Rotterdam were never counted in Dutch trade
data because the toxic metal never technically touched Dutch
soil, meaning it was “in transit,” according to the records
and Dutch officials.  Avoiding the Ban  The man who controls Lambert, 62-year-old British
businessman Howard Barrymore Masters, explained the transit
principle in an e-mail dated Nov. 19, 2010, to his Dutch
handling and warehousing company, C. Steinweg-Handelsveem.
Masters wanted his shipper to recognize his belief that the
transit status of his firm’s mercury offered a potential
loophole they could use to get around the export ban.  If Steinweg didn’t agree, Masters wrote, it would be
“regrettable that after many, many years Lambert Metals will no
longer be able to handle their mercury business through
Steinweg, Rotterdam.” (During discussions with Dutch
regulators, Masters or Steinweg forwarded the e-mail to the
government, which released it to Bloomberg Businessweek.)  Steinweg dominates the independent metals trade in the
port, “but nobody really knows who the owners are,” says Minco
van Heezen, a spokesman for the port authority. In a 15th-floor
conference room at the World Port Center, where floor-to-ceiling
windows provide a view to the sea on a clear day, van Heezen
says Steinweg is famously tight-lipped. “The metals business,
you know, it’s very secretive,” he says.  Discreet Locale  The location of Steinweg’s global headquarters in Rotterdam
is shown on a map sold at the port, but there is no sign or logo
of any kind marking the entrance to its office, which is in a
low and long brick building that could just as easily be a
middle school. The entrance is adorned only with a security
camera and a stone statue of a port worker carrying a bulging
sack. The plinth below his feet carries no inscription.
Contacted for this article, Steinweg said it abides by the law,
adding it “doesn’t provide information about customers.”  Dutch regulators ultimately rejected Masters’s argument
that transiting Rotterdam’s channels excused shipments from the
EU export ban, and Steinweg dropped Lambert’s business, at least
in Rotterdam, according to regulators. Yet Lambert’s business
hasn’t suffered. To the contrary, it has flourished.  After the ban took effect last year, the company sent
mercury shipments to Colombia via  Singapore  and  Hong Kong ,
Colombian customs records show, indicating that  Asia  has
replaced Rotterdam as a global hub, at least for some of the
company’s trading. (In one e-mail obtained by Bloomberg
Businessweek, Masters had speculated he would move his business
to Singapore.)  Soaring Revenue  Lambert’s revenue dramatically increased last year despite
the ban, reaching $73.16 million for the fiscal year ended Sept.
30, 2011. That’s up from $29.66 million the previous year, or a
147 percent rise. The ban was in effect for more than half the
fiscal year.  Mercury sales, which have “for some time been a major part
of the company’s trading,” were responsible for last year’s
“increased turnover,” the term British accountants use for
revenue, Lambert’s directors’ report said. Based on the average
price of  mercury  for the fiscal year, the revenue increase would
translate into sales of about 1,137 tons. Exporting mercury from
Europe may now be prohibited, but it’s perfectly legal for
Masters and his company to use e-mail and telephones to direct
global trade from European soil.  ‘Demand Remains Strong’  Masters explained in the company’s most recent annual
report how the international regulatory squeeze and global gold
rush were boosting Lambert’s fortunes. Mercury is “a hazardous
material that is subject to ever-increasing environmental
controls and regulations reducing its availability worldwide,
but due to its unique properties, demand remains strong,
particularly from the gold  mining industry ,” the report said.
He predicted prices could go even higher, “with gold itself
being at record high levels.”  His insights come with experience. Masters is the former
chairman of the London-based  Minor Metals Trade Association . The
group’s members include those who produce, trade, and buy metals
not sold on exchanges, such as mercury and so-called rare earth
metals. It named the Howard’s Way cup, the prize awarded in its
yacht race, in his honor. The sailing enthusiast owns a small
estate, High Trees, in the English countryside about 30 miles
northwest of central London, on the edge of the 12th and 18th
greens of a golf club.  Missing Tons  Previously unpublished data from Dutch customs officials
show almost 1,000 tons of “transit” mercury leaving Dutch
warehouses and heading for Colombia and about 20 other countries
on five continents from 2006 to 2010. Masters himself speculated
in an e-mail last year that global trade data missed tons of
mercury that traders sent sailing around the world. In the same
e-mail, he also wrote that the European ban’s only achievement
“is killing the market in Europe and moving the business
elsewhere, but that’s what we pay our taxes for -- to ruin the
EU economy.”  The e-mail was sent to an EU consultant who investigated
traders ahead of the ban. “We are now concentrating all of our
efforts on developing business anywhere but within the EU,”
Masters wrote, “or should we say the future Third World!”  It’s unclear whether the U.S. ban next year will dent the
trade, raise revenue even further for Lambert, or some mixture
of the two. Trade records and e-mails show Lambert has been
buying mercury from Kyrgyzstan, where the government runs the
last primary mercury mine known to be exporting to the  global
market . A binding UN agreement on mercury is under negotiation,
but its potential reach is unclear.  Colombia’s Concern  An unsigned e-mail to Bloomberg Businessweek from Lambert
said that focusing on the company’s profits from “a few sales
of mercury to Colombia” amounted to sensationalism, adding that
if mercury legally imported into Colombia “is not being
correctly handled, it should indeed be a concern for the
Colombian authorities who permit its importation.”  Hoyos, the 17-year-old who worked a Segovia oven but now
buys gold from a bullet-riddled chair, says he’s learning to
repair motorbikes. He wants to become a mechanic so he can get
out of Segovia and away from gold and mercury for good.  Cardona, the mineworker who took about two months unpaid
leave to escape mercury, now supervises others on the drums,
trying to stay as far away as he can. The owners of the mine
plan to switch to a  cyanide -based processing system, but Cardona
knows it will be difficult for his family and community to get
away from quicksilver; his two sons and his son-in-law also work
with Segovia’s gold, as does most of the local working
population. “Everything is mining here,” Cardona says. “You
could get a company job, but the companies here in Segovia are
all mining.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cam Simpson in London at 
 csimpson13@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryant Urstadt at 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net  