-- Google Android Didn’t Infringe Oracle Patents, Jury Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/google-android-didn-t-infringe-oracle-patents-jury-says.html
A jury found  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the largest
Web search provider, didn’t infringe  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s patents in
developing Android software, handing the database maker another
defeat in a trial in which it sought $1 billion in damages.  The 10-person jury ruled unanimously yesterday that neither
of the two patents at issue was infringed. While jurors found
May 7 that Google infringed Oracle’s copyrights, they deadlocked
on whether it was “fair use,” denying Oracle the ability to
seek $1 billion in damages and a court order blocking Google
from distributing the smartphone software without paying for a
license.  The patent phase of the trial was less important than the
copyright issues because the patents were worth much less, said
Brian Love, an intellectual-property attorney and teaching
fellow at  Stanford Law School . Still, the jury finding yesterday
underscored how the trial went against Oracle, he said.  “This case is maybe something like a near disaster for
Oracle,” Love said yesterday in a phone interview.  The jury found May 7 that Google had copied nine lines of
Oracle code in Android, which has 15 million lines of code. That
finding may not translate to big damages. Oracle may be limited
to seeking about $150,000, the most allowed by law, for the
copying, the presiding judge in the case has said.  ‘Couple of Days’  “That potentially is not enough to cover what they are
spending over a couple of days” in legal fees during the trial,
Love said.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup said he may issue a
ruling next week on whether Oracle’s Java application
programming interfaces, software tools at the heart of the case,
can be copyrighted. A ruling that they can’t would be another
blow to Oracle, while a ruling for Oracle would revive the
company’s ability to seek large damages.  Alsup must also rule on Oracle’s request that he overturn
the jury’s patent verdict and issue a judgment in its favor
based on his reading of the evidence. He also has to rule on
Google’s request for a new trial on copyright infringement.  Immediately after the verdict was announced, the judge
dismissed the jury from the case and canceled the third phase of
the trial over damages.  Oracle, the largest maker of  database software , alleged
Google stole two patents for the Java programming language when
it developed Android, which now runs on more than 300 million
smartphones. In the first phase of the trial, the same jury
found the search engine company infringed Oracle’s Java
copyrights while it couldn’t agree on whether the copying was
“fair use.”  The legal doctrine of fair use states that anyone can use
copyrighted work without consent of the owner under certain
circumstances, such as for teaching, in news reporting and
commentary or to advance the public interest by creating
something new.  ‘A Victory’  “Today’s jury verdict that Android does not infringe
Oracle’s patents was a victory not just for Google but the
entire Android ecosystem,” Catherine Lacavera, Google’s
director of litigation, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Google and Oracle’s experts had estimated damages for both
patents at $3 million to $4 million if the jury found
infringement.  “Oracle presented overwhelming evidence at trial that
Google knew it would fragment and damage Java,”  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Oracle, said in an e-mail after the
verdict. “We plan to continue to defend and uphold Java’s core
write-once run-anywhere principle and ensure it is protected for
the nine million Java developers and the community that depend
on Java compatibility.”  Jury foreman Greg Thompson, 52, said yesterday that during
deliberations he alone among the 10 jurors thought that Google
infringed Java patents. After almost six days of discussions, he
said he was persuaded by other panel members to change his vote.  Jury Foreman  The jury lost two members over the course of the six-week
trial. Thompson said he alone voted that Google’s use of Java
copyrights didn’t constitute fair use early in deliberations in
the copyright phase. Eventually he convinced two other jurors
and the jury deadlocked after nine members voted that Google
made fair use of the copyrights, he said.  “The more tech-savvy a person is, the more difficult it is
to persuade them about what limitations should be placed on
technology,” Thompson said in an interview after the trial.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  