-- Google, Vegas Strip Steak, Microsoft: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-05-24T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/google-vegas-strip-steak-microsoft-abc-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the largest Web search
provider, didn’t infringe  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s patents in developing
Android software, a federal jury found in the second phase of an
intellectual property trial in San Francisco.  The 10-person jury ruled unanimously yesterday that neither
of the two patents at issue was infringed. Immediately after the
verdict was announced, the judge dismissed the jury from the
case and canceled the third phase of the trial over damages.  Oracle, the largest maker of database software, alleged
Google stole two patents for the Java programming language when
it developed Android, which now runs on more than 300 million
smartphones. In the first phase of the trial, the same jury
found the search engine company infringed Oracle’s Java
copyrights while it couldn’t agree on whether the copying was
“fair use.”  The jury verdict that Android doesn’t infringe Oracle’s
patents “was a victory not just for Google but the entire
Android ecosystem,” Catherine Lacavera, Google’s director of
litigation, said in an e-mailed statement.  Google and Oracle’s experts had estimated damages for both
patents at $3 million to $4 million if the jury found
infringement.  “Oracle presented overwhelming evidence at trial that
Google knew it would fragment and damage Java,”  Deborah
Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Oracle, said in an e-mail after the
verdict. “We plan to continue to defend and uphold Java’s core
write once run anywhere principle and ensure it is protected for
the nine million Java developers and the community that depend
on Java compatibility.”  U.S. District Judge William Alsup, who presided over the
trial, said he may issue a ruling next on whether Oracle’s Java
application programming interfaces, software tools at the heart
of the case, can be copyrighted. A ruling that they aren’t would
be another blow to Oracle.  Alsup must also still rule on Oracle’s motion for a patent-
infringement judgment in its favor based on the evidence and on
 Mountain View , California-based Google’s request for a new trial
on whether it infringed Java copyrights.  Without any verdict on fair use of the copyrights, Redwood
City, California-based Oracle is prevented from seeking $1
billion in damages.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  OSU Helps Develop New Cut of Steak, Seeks Patent on Technology  Oklahoma  State University, working together with an outside
agricultural consultant who styles himself as the “meat geek,”
and a Chicago chef, has discovered a new cut of beef and is
seeking a patent on the product.  The cut, known as the “Vegas Strip Steak,” is from a
section of a beef carcass that previously ended up as hamburger.
In a university  statement ,  Jacob Nelson  of the school’s  Robert
M. Kerr Food & Agricultural Products Center , said that
previously the notion of finding a new cut of beef appeared to
be “an impossibility.”  The Vegas Strip Steak “is the latest and perhaps last
steak to be found on the beef carcass, he said.  Partnering with the university is  Antonio Mata  of North
Richland, Texas-based Mata & Associates. He is a consultant with
a doctorate in agricultural biochemistry and nutrition who bills
himself as the “meat geek” on his website.  The third party is  Richard Gresh , executive chef at  David
Burke’s Primehouse  restaurant in Chicago’s James hotel.  According to a joint statement from the parties, the  Vegas
Strip Steak  is comparable to a  New York  strip steak, and has
“little connective tissue or visible fat.”  The technology is available for licensing through the
 Technology Development Center  of the University of Oklahoma.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Alleged Use of Logo Wins Activist Group Twitter Suspension  An activist group accused of using the logo of the London
2012 Olympic games without authorization had its account with
Twitter Inc.’s short-messaging service suspended, the U.K.’s
Guardian newspaper  reported .  San Francisco-based Twitter told the group its use of the
logo in one of its postings could have been confused with  the
committee ’s official postings, according to the newspaper.  The group, known as “Space Highjackers” told the Guardian
it was engaging in “purely social commentary” and wasn’t
trying to sell any fake products.  A spokesman for the committee said its takedown request was
motivated solely by its desire to protect its logo and not over
any concern with Space Highjackers’ message, according to the
Guardian.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Microsoft CEO Says  China  Intellectual Property Protection ‘Weak’  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which is preparing to roll out its new
Windows operating system, sees intellectual property protection
in China as “still weak” making it difficult to sell
legitimate software, Chief Executive Officer Steve Ballmer said.  Still, Ballmer is “super excited” about growth in the
China market, which is unique in being the largest for both
phones and personal computers and is the fastest growing, he
said in a speech at  Peking University  in Beijing May 22.  U.S. Ambassador to China Gary Locke last month said China’s
lack of protection for intellectual property rights is hampering
companies doing business in the country and that strengthening
enforcement needs to be a top priority. The country’s illegal
software market was worth almost $9 billion last year, versus a
legal market of less than $3 billion, according to the annual
report of the Business Software Alliance this month.  “China is a market that adopts technology, and yet China
is a market where intellectual property protection is still
weak,” Ballmer told more than 2,000 students. “In Microsoft’s
case we are fortunate we can sell our products outside of China.
For a Chinese developer, it’s probably tougher because your
domestic market is a tough one in which to really sell
software.”  Ballmer also met Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  May 22, Xinhua
News Agency said. Wang said provincial governments will be using
authorized software by the end of June and city and county
governments will be in compliance by the end of 2013, the
official news service reported yesterday. Central government
organs “accomplished this goal” last year, Xinhua said.  Microsoft plans to challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s dominance in
tablet computers with Windows 8, a new operating system version
designed to run touch-screen devices. The software is scheduled
to go on sale around October, people with knowledge of the
matter said in March.  Ballmer predicted that next year the same audience will be
full of people carrying Windows phones. Windows 8 is almost like
a new operating system and a complete “reimagining” of the
Windows system to work on all devices from phones to tablets to
desktop computers, he said.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ohio Considers Drilling Rules Opponents Say Favor Frackers  The Ohio House is preparing to vote on rules for natural-
gas drillers that Republican Governor John Kasich calls among
the nation’s toughest, even as environmentalists say they let
companies decide which industrial chemicals stay secret.  The House Public Utilities Committee was to vote yesterday
on a bill Kasich sought governing hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, said Representative Peter Stautberg, the Republican
chairman of the committee. The measure, which could get a full
House vote today, would require disclosure of chemicals, water
sampling before drilling and tracking wastewater into disposal
wells. The Senate passed the bill May 15.  Kasich, 60, said the rules will help Ohio profit from a
boom in fracking -- which involves injecting chemicals, water
and sand underground to free gas reserves -- while protecting
drinking water and the environment. Ohio has 72 horizontally
drilled fracking wells, and the state Natural Resources
Department projects that 2,250 will be drilled by the end of
2015.  “It sets up the most important, strongest, clearest and
fairest regulations for hydraulic fracturing,” Kasich told
reporters in Columbus, Ohio, on May 17.  States including Ohio, Pennsylvania and North Dakota are
confronting the costs and benefits of fracking and how to
regulate it. The industry says fracking is safe and allows
increased production; environmental groups say it can lead to
contamination.  While groups including the Columbus-based Ohio
Environmental Council praised Kasich for seeking the law, they
said the provisions don’t go far enough and are calling for
changes.  The bill allows companies to shield chemicals as trade
secrets, allows them to delay disclosure for 60 days after a
well has been drilled, and places a “gag order” on doctors
against disclosing information about chemicals that may have
affected patients, said Thom Cmar, an attorney for the Natural
Resources Defense Council in Chicago.  The measure also ensures that while companies can appeal
the denial of a state permit to drill for oil and gas, residents
can’t appeal permit approvals, according to the Ohio
Environmental Council in Columbus.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ,  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  and  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  are among companies drilling in Ohio’s Utica Shale rock
formation. Its development will support 65,680 jobs and add $4.9
billion to the state’s economic output in 2014, according to a
study released Feb. 28 by the Ohio Shale Coalition.  ABC Responds to Suit, Says ‘Big Brother’ Not a Secret  The  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC unit has responded in a court
filing to a trade-secrets case filed in connection with the
network’s proposed “ Glass House ” reality television program.  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s CBS Broadcasting unit sued ABC in federal court
in Los Angeles May 10, claiming that “Glass House” infringed
the copyrights and used misappropriated trade secrets belonging
the “ Big Brother ” reality program.  The complaint noted that at least 19 former producers and
staff members from “Big Brother” were working on “Glass
House,” which CBS claims is a “carbon copy” of its show.  On May 21, ABC filed a statement in response to a CBS
request to seal parts of the court filing. The network said that
if and when CBS filed papers seeking a halt to the program, it
will show that what it allegedly stole isn’t trade secrets.
Those elements that CBS claims are proprietary and protectable
“are generally understood principles related to reality show
production,” ABC said.  Additionally, the information about “Big Brother” is
“readily apparent from watching the television show, taking a
behind the scenes tour or reading about the show on the
Internet.”  CBS is represented by  Blaine H. Evanson ,  Michael W. Seitz ,
 Scott A. Edelman  and  Theane Evangelis Kapur  of Los Angeles-based
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. ABC’s lawyers are  Jonathan E.
Altman ,  Carolyn H. Luedtke ,  Glenn D. Pomerantz , and  Peter E.
Gratzinger  of Munger Tolles & Olson LLP, also of Los Angeles.  The case is CBS Broadcasting Inc. v. American Broadcasting
Companies, 2:12-cv-04073-GAF-JEM, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  IC3 Warns Updating Software Through Hotel Connection Risky  The  Internet Crime Complaint Center  has issued a  warning  to
business travelers who use hotel Internet connections.  The center, which is a partnership between the U.S.  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation and the National White Collar Crime
Center, said that some travelers’ laptops are becoming infected
with malicious software that could potentially compromise the
security of the computers’ contents.  The infestation comes after the traveler is presented with
a pop-up window notifying the user to update a widely used
software product. When the user clicks on this window and agrees
to accept the update, the rogue software is installed on the
computer.  According to the warning, the FBI recommends that all
private industry, academic and government personnel who travel
abroad “take extra caution before updating software products on
their hotel Internet connections.” Instead, the FBI suggests,
travelers should update their software directly from the
software vendors’ websites before leaving home.  Those who believe they have been a target of such attacks
are asked to contact their local FBI offices immediately, and to
report the attack to the Internet Crime Complaint Center’s
website.  IP Moves  McCarter & English Hired Former AstraZeneca Hatch-Waxman Expert  McCarter & English LLP hired Thomas A. Stevens for its IP
and information-technology practice, the Newark, New Jersey-
based firm said in a  statement .  Stevens , who was previously assistant general counsel,
global IP litigation at  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s AstraZeneca
Pharmaceuticals unit, will specialize in litigation related to
pharmaceutical and biotech companies.  He previously served as senior patent litigation counsel at
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and as senior deputy attorney general in
Delaware’s Department of Justice. He also practiced in the
patent litigation group at Connolly Bove Lodge & Hutz LLP of
Wilmington, Delaware.  He will be handling patent disputes arising under
provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act.  Stevens has an undergraduate degree in biology from the
University of Pennsylvania, a master’s degree in finance from
Drexel University and a law degree from Widener University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 