-- Google Says Microsoft Leads Requests for Content Removal
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-24T22:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/google-says-microsoft-leads-requests-for-content-removal.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most popular Internet search engine, said a new report shows
that  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. makes the most requests among copyright
owners to remove content from Google’s search service.  Microsoft, or others on its behalf, has requested more than
2.5 million Web pages, or URLs, be removed because of copyright
infringement, while  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal was No. 2 with
almost 1 million, according to data released by Google that
measured all requests going back to 2011. Member companies of
the  Recording Industry Association of America , including EMI
Music  North America , was No. 3 with more than 400,000 requests.  “We’re providing information about who sends us copyright
removal notices, how often, on behalf of which copyright owners
and for which websites,” said Fred von Lohmann, Google’s senior
copyright counsel, in a blog post. “As policy makers and
 Internet users  around the world consider the pros and cons of
different proposals to address the problem of online copyright
infringement, we hope this data will contribute to the
discussion.”  Google is under scrutiny from companies and governments
around the world over what type of content it shows on its
services. The new data is a now part of Google’s  Transparency
Report , which tracks traffic on its services, general user-data
requests and removal queries.  Turnaround Time  While evaluating copyright requests, the company also is
trying to improve the efficiency of the process. Last week, the
average turnaround time for a request was less than 11 hours.
Google said it has received 1.2 million requests on behalf of
more than 1,000 copyright owners to remove search results in the
past month.  The  Mountain View , California-based company does reject
some requests. For example, sometimes they’re used for
“anticompetitive purposes,” or to remove content that is
unfavorable toward a particular person or company yet doesn’t
infringe any copyrights.  Microsoft is the world’s largest software maker and
competes with Google in the market for Web search with its Bing
service.  “As a search engine and copyright owner, Microsoft
appreciates the need for responsible enforcement online,” said
Mark Lamb, senior manager of anti-piracy communications at
Microsoft, in an e-mailed statement. “So each month, Microsoft
requests the removal of links to Web pages that infringe
Microsoft’s copyrights so that customers are not deceived into
purchasing or downloading counterfeit software.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  