-- Grandfather’s Millions Make Paul Fan a Political Player
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-05-24T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/grandfather-s-millions-make-paul-fan-a-political-player.html
John Ramsey became old enough to buy
a Carlsberg nine months ago. The 21-year-old college student
from east  Texas  isn’t old enough to serve in Congress. His
intellectual role model, U.S. Texas Representative Ron Paul, has
been in Congress 22 years -- longer than Ramsey has been alive.  Yet, Ramsey is leaving a mark on U.S. politics that may
outlast his political mentor and presidential candidate, Paul.
The college senior spent $1.3 million of his own money to create
a super-political action committee, Liberty for All Super PAC, 
that backs candidates who endorse what Ramsey calls “freedom
philosophy.” The dogma includes policies championed by Paul,
such as supporting free-market economics, protecting civil
liberties, slashing  government spending  and opposing most U.S.
military action.  Ramsey’s super-PAC passed its first test on May 22. It
spent more than $561,000 on television and radio ads to help Tom Massie, a  Kentucky  engineer, defeat two experienced politicians
in a House Republican primary election. Ramsey’s super-PAC spent
more than any of the candidates.  “This is the first step. We’re looking to spread our
message,” Ramsey, who’d shed his afternoon blue-jeans for a
gray suit, told about 20 people in their teens and 20s who
gathered for a victory party at one of the PAC’s headquarters in
Bellevue, Kentucky.  Hunting and Fishing  Towering over the other attendees at 6-feet, 7-inches, the
one-time, daily tennis player still finds time for matches -- as
well as hunting and fishing -- between his political project,
investments and studies.  Ramsey attends  Stephen F. Austin State University  in
Nacogdoches, Texas, where he’s several courses shy from a
double-major in business economics and finance.  He enjoys studying central banking systems, including the
 European Central Bank  and the U.S. Federal Reserve, which, like
Paul, he says should be audited. Among his favorite authors is
 Frederic Bastiat , a French economist who promoted free markets
as a source of “economic harmony” in the early half of the
1800s.  His interest in economics and finance comes from his
grandfather, Justin Robert Howard, a banker who died on
Thanksgiving 2010 and left a fortune to his survivors, including
Ramsey and his two older siblings.  ‘Big Papa’  Howard -- “Big Papa” to Ramsey -- “taught me about cash-
flow statements and P/E ratios” as a young teenager, Ramsey
said. He manages his own portfolio, which includes interests in
energy, real estate and  timber .  “I’m involved in a lot of investments that are not linked
to the dollar,” he said. “That’s my favorite way of
diversifying, whether it be through alternative currency, gold,
through companies that do mining in precious metals. That’s my
number one goal now, to diversify from the  dollar  more and
more.”  Ramsey said his sister, Vanessa, a lifelong Democrat,
expressed some skepticism about his political spending, though
he said family and friends have supported his desire to promote
his causes.  He uses the word “grandfather” to describe his
relationship with Paul, a 76-year-old House member. He met Paul
in 2010, and they’re pictured together on Ramsey’s Facebook
page.  “ Ron Paul  has been an absolutely phenomenal role model for
me personally,” Ramsey said. “It’s so honorable to have him as
sort of the grandfather of this movement he’s created in this
country.”  Civil Disobedience  Rosa Parks, a black woman who helped spark the civil rights
movement in 1955 when she refused to take a seat in the back of
a public bus, and  Martin Luther King Jr ., the leader of that
movement, are also role models for their practice of peaceful
civil disobedience.  “You can’t spread freedom through violence,” Ramsey said.
“Humanitarianism can only be done through peaceful means.”  Ramsey’s interest in free-market ideas deepened last summer
during studies at Oxford University in  England . Ramsey said that
his classmates from  Europe  and  Asia  had much different policy
views. Some of them quoted from  Karl Marx ’s “The Communist
Manifesto,” Ramsey said.  Youngest Super-PAC Member  After campaigning for Paul in Iowa and Maine, Ramsey said
he became “tired of sitting on the sidelines” and decided to
form the super-PAC, becoming perhaps the youngest member of a
new set of wealthy political actors freed by federal court
decisions to spend as much money as they wish on elections.
According to Federal Election Commission records, Liberty for
All Super PAC became official on March 5.  An early call for help went to Preston Bates, 23, a former
Democratic Party operative in Kentucky who worked briefly on
Paul’s White House effort. Bates was so interested in Ramsey’s
idea that he drove more than 1,000 miles from his Louisville
hometown to meet Ramsey at his condominium in Austin. Ramsey
offered him the job of executive director, running the day-to-
day operations of the super-PAC.  Bates traveled to  Washington  in April to attend a
conference about using technology in political campaigns. Ramsey
and Bates are big on technology: Ramsey says that when he saw a
colleague working on an outdated computer, he immediately took
him to an Apple store to buy a new model.  Seeking Guidance  Bates has received advice about the super-PAC’s development
from David Boaz, the executive director of the Washington-based
 Cato Institute , and Thomas E. Woods Jr., a senior fellow at the
Ludwig von Mises Institute, based in Auburn,  Alabama  and named
for an Austrian free-market economist and philosopher, he said.  Ramsey intends to expand beyond the Liberty For All super-
PAC activity to include 501c3 and 501c4 non-profit arms that can
engage in issue advocacy and charitable work.  He and Bates also are planning to diversify their donor
base after hiring professional fundraisers. Among those they
plan to seek help from is  Peter Thiel , a billionaire investor
who provided  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s first outside investment and who
gave $2.6 million to a different super-PAC that backed Paul’s
presidential campaign.  “There’s no reason why, by the end of the summer, we can’t
have $10 million,” Ramsey said.  One detail he won’t share: how much of his own money he’s
willing to part with.  “How much does freedom cost?” he said. “I’m willing to
do what it takes, within my ability to promote and have a more
free world.”  Election Target  In the short-term, the super-PAC, which has about 15 to 20
staffers, is focusing its efforts on winning down-ballot
contests in which they’ve identified a preferred “freedom
candidate” who shares their philosophy. Liberty for All’s next
target is a county constable race in Austin, where the super-PAC
is backing a gay, black, Democrat who owns a gun store.  The presidential election no longer interests Ramsey.  President  Barack Obama  and presumed Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  share too many policy views, he said, noting that the
former governor’s health-care overhaul in  Massachusetts  was a
blueprint for the national plan Obama signed into law in 2010.  “I don’t see a lot of difference between the two
candidates,” he says.  Ramsey also doesn’t care about the party affiliation of the
candidates his group vets.  No Partisan Labels  “We would like to have a freedom candidate running,”
Ramsey says. “Party is not the big thing that we look at.”  For Ramsey, winning elections is a means to an end. He
eschews referring to his spending as political contributions,
preferring to refer to his work as a “humanitarian rescue
mission.”  Liberty for All “is a political action committee, but I
see it as more of a humanitarian effort,” Ramsey said.  In the future, Ramsey wants to pursue philanthropic
pursuits and earn a doctorate in economics. He’s interested in
the economics of  developing countries  including  India , and he
says he wants to engage on such issues as world hunger and water
sanitation.  With the super-PAC dominating his energies, though, his
academic career is on hold, which he says he probably will
finish “at the correct time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  