-- Greek Paradox May Bolster Lithuania’s Euro-Adoption Aspirations
-- B y   H e l l m u t h   T r o m m   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-05-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/greek-paradox-may-bolster-lithuania-s-euro-adoption-aspirations.html
Greece ’s debt crisis and slower
global growth may buoy Lithuania’s bid to adopt the euro in 2014
as falling commodity prices make it easier to meet inflation
limits, Finance Minister  Ingrida Simonyte  said.  “Despite how paradoxical this may sound, the worse the
global environment, the lower the oil price, the more chance for
a country like ours to get into the euro,” Simonyte said
yesterday in an interview in Vilnius, the capital.  Crude prices have dropped as much as 8 percent since
January with Greece’s euro-area membership in jeopardy and
economies from  Spain  to the U.K. shrinking. That’s helped
Lithuanian consumer prices grow at the slowest pace in more than
a year after the Baltic nation in 2006 became the only candidate
rejected for euro adoption because it topped the currency
union’s  inflation  ceiling.  Adopting the euro as envisaged in 2014 is “a realistic
goal,” Simonyte said. The government is “broadly in line” on
plans to narrow this year’s budget deficit to within 3 percent
of  gross domestic product  from 5.5 percent in 2011, another
condition euro hopefuls must meet, the minister said.  The yield on Lithuania’s dollar bond due 2022 has fallen to
5.533 percent from 6.5183 when it was sold in January. The cost
of insuring government debt against non-payment using credit-
default swaps has dropped to 304 basis points from 367 at the
start of the year. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Inflation Eases  Consumer prices rose 3.2 percent from a year earlier in
April, the slowest growth in 14 months. Average inflation for
the previous 12 months, the gauge the European Commission
watches, was 4.1 percent, one percentage point more than the
threshold for euro adoption.  Lithuania  exceeded the limit by 0.1
percentage point in 2006.  To join the euro area,  inflation  must be within 1.5
percentage points of the average in the three EU countries with
the lowest rates. Countries must also meet fiscal, debt,
interest-rate and exchange-rate targets.  Payments to the European Stability Mechanism bailout fund
are souring sentiment toward euro adoption in Lithuania,
according to Simonyte. Lithuania raised taxes and lowered
spending equal to 12 percent of GDP in 2009 and 2010 after the
budget gap widened to 9.5 percent and some citizens object that
other nations are less keen to follow suit, she said.  Lithuania endured “cuts and tax increases, freezes and
constraint,” Simonyte said. Euro adoption would mean it needs
to sell more debt “to pay for a stability mechanism that may be
used for countries that weren’t willing to do the same.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net 
Hellmuth Tromm in Berlin at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  