-- Greek Poll Shows Syriza Gaining Support Before June Vote
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-24T20:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/greek-poll-shows-syriza-gaining-support-ahead-of-june-17-ballot.html
A Greek opinion poll showed the
Syriza party, which is opposed to implementing  Greece ’s
international financial rescue, building on its lead in voter
support ahead of elections to be held June 17.  Syriza had 30 percent support, compared with 28 percent a
week earlier, according to a  Public Issue poll  presented on
Athens-based Skai TV today. That was ahead of pro-bailout party
New Democracy, which had 26 percent support, up from 24 percent
a week earlier, according to the survey.  Increased support for Syriza following more than two years
of pension and wage cuts propelled the party into second place
in Greece’s inconclusive May 6 elections. Leader Alexis Tsipras
rebuffed attempts by New Democracy and other party leaders to
form a coalition government in the days after the election,
leading to a new ballot that is now seen as a test of Greece’s
determination to remain in the euro area.  European leaders meeting in Brussels tied their next steps
on the financial crisis to the outcome of the bitterly contested
Greek vote. The six-hour summit ended early today with an
exhortation to Greek voters to elect a pro-austerity government
that will make the  budget cuts  needed to keep the financially
ravaged country in the group that uses the euro.  The poll showed 85 percent of Greeks wanted to keep the
euro, compared with 12 percent who were opposed to retaining the
currency. The survey also showed 62 percent against the terms of
the bailout and 28 percent in favor.  Poll Results  The socialist Pasok party garnered 15.5 percent, improving
from 15 percent a week earlier, according to the poll, which was
conducted from May 18 to May 23. The previous survey was
conducted May 15 to May 17. Public Issue strips out undecided
voters and those who say they intend to spoil ballots. The
survey of 1,214 people had a margin of error of 3 percentage
points for Syriza’s total and 2.5 percentage points for the  New
Democracy  figure.  Under Greek electoral law, the party that has the most
support is awarded a bonus of 50 seats in the 300-seat
legislature.  A separate poll showed New Democracy, led by Antonis
Samaras, in a tight race with Syriza.  New Democracy got 23.5 percent support with Syriza polling
at 23 percent, according to the poll conducted by DATA RC and
published on the news website pelop.gr. Pasok garnered 10.6
percent, with 16.1 percent of respondents undecided.  The poll of 1,019 people, which was conducted from May
21-23, showed 83 percent of Greeks wanted to keep the euro and
56 percent said a return to the drachma would be a catastrophe.
No margin of error was provided for the DATA RC survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  