-- Greenhouse Gas Gap Grows as Climate Pledges Fall Short
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-05-24T10:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/greenhouse-gas-emissions-gap-grows-as-climate-pledges-founder.html
The gap between the emissions cuts
needed to contain global warming and actual reductions by 2020
is at risk of widening as countries including the U.S.,  Brazil 
and  Mexico  fail to meet pledges, Climate Action Tracker said.  At best, commitments would lead to emissions 9 gigatons (9
billion tons) higher than the 44 gigatons needed in 2020 to stop
the planet warming more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit)
since industrialization, the project said in Bonn, where two
weeks of United Nations talks end tomorrow.  A temperature increase of at least 3.5 degrees Celsius on
the current greenhouse-gas trajectory may accelerate because
nations are indicating they will miss 2020 pledges, Climate
Action Tracker  said  after analyzing presentations made by
countries at the meeting.  “Many governments are nowhere near putting in place the
policies they have committed to, policies that are not enough to
keep temperature rises to below 2 degrees Celsius,” said Bill Hare, director of Climate Analytics, one of three groups that
set up the project. “We’ve already identified a major emissions
gap. The action being taken is highly unlikely to shrink that
gap. It seems that the opposite is happening.”  Pledges Missed  While the project hasn’t in detail quantified how much
countries will undershoot existing emissions pledges, Marion
Vieweg, an analyst at Climate Analytics, told reporters in Bonn
that the emissions gap is likely to be above 11 gigatons with
the current rate of progress. That’s equivalent to the current
annual emissions of the U.S. and 27-nation European Union
combined, according to the group.  The UN discussions have failed to yield any increase in the
ambition of emissions reductions, Bangladeshi negotiator Quamrul
Chowdhury said today in an interview in Bonn.  The talks are split into three tracks: One to define what
nations bound by targets under the existing Kyoto Protocol will
do when they expire at the end of 2012; another to define what
those without targets will do, including the two biggest
emitters, the U.S. and  China ; and a third strand to devise a new
climate treaty by 2015 that will take force from 2020.  The first two tracks are in danger of not being completed
at year-end talks in Doha, Qatar, because of UN budgetary
constraints may cancel a week of interim negotiations in Bangkok
before then, said Chowdhury. The third strand is in deadlock
over a procedural debate about how to structure the discussions,
pitting 36 countries that include China and  India  against the
rest of negotiators, he said.  Tracker Supporters  Aside from Potsdam, Germany-based Climate Analytics, the
tracker project is run by the Potsdam Institute for Climate
Impact Research and the consultant Ecofys, which has offices in
the U.S., China,  Germany , the U.K. and the Netherlands.  The project’s estimate of the “emissions gap” exceeds the
low end of the central range of 6 gigatons to 11 gigatons
estimated by the UN in November. The UN’s lowest estimate for
the gap given the most ambitious pledges and rigorous
implementation is for 3 gigatons, according to the tracker.  Niklas Hoehne, director of energy and climate policy at
Ecofys, said that the global economic crisis and a switch from
coal to gas has driven predicted emissions for the U.S. lower,
though policies in the biggest economy are still insufficient to
meet its pledges. President  Barack Obama  has committed to cut
U.S. emissions 17 percent for the 15 years through 2020 so long
as Congress passes domestic legislation.  Coal and Efficiency  The tracker said policies announced by the U.S. on coal-
fired power stations and  fuel efficiency  in vehicles leave the
world’s biggest historical emitter 350 million tons short of its
“inadequate” 2020 pledge.  Brazil’s proposed forest code may reverse the trend that’s
seen its deforestation rate fall to a historic low, the tracker
said. President  Dilma Rousseff  is due to make a decision on the
proposal tomorrow, it said.  Mexico has introduced “solid new framework legislation”
on  climate change , while failing to implement policies, and is
set to achieve only 12 percent of its pledge to cut emissions by
30 percent from a business-as-usual trajectory by 2020, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Bonn at  amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  