-- Citadel Unit Said to Lose $35 Million on Facebook Trading
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-05-24T21:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/griffin-s-citadel-said-to-lose-35-million-on-facebook.html
Citadel LLC, the investment firm run
by  Ken Griffin , said it lost money on  Facebook Inc. (FB)  trades in
its broker-dealer unit.  The loss at Citadel Securities may be as much as $35
million, according to a person with knowledge of the firm, who
asked not to be named because the information is private.  “Citadel Securities was impacted by issues with  Nasdaq  and
the Facebook initial public offering,” Katie Spring, a
spokeswoman for the Chicago-based firm, said today in an e-mail.  Facebook’s share sale last week, the biggest technology
initial public offering in history, was blighted by delays and
mishandled orders. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s systems were
overwhelmed by order updates and cancellations before the
social-media company’s shares began changing hands, delaying the
start of trading and preventing the exchange from immediately
telling investors whether transactions went through.  Shares of Menlo Park, California-based Facebook have
slumped 13 percent since its May 17 initial public offering.  Citadel’s market-making business, which buys and sells
equities for retail brokers, handles about 7 percent of U.S.
listed equity-option volume and 4 percent of U.S. equity volume,
according to the firm’s  website . Citadel manages $13 billion in
assets, including its main Kensington and Wellington  hedge
funds .  Knight Capital Loss  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , a Jersey City, New Jersey-based
brokerage and market maker, said yesterday that it lost as much
as $35 million trading Facebook because of the technical
problems at Nasdaq.  Separately, Andrew Kolinsky, who ran Citadel Execution
Services, the market-making unit, is leaving next month after
seven years. He will be replaced by Jamil Nazarali, who joined
last year, the person said.  Citadel’s Kensington and Wellington funds have returned 9.3
percent this year through April, said the person. Hedge funds
have gained an average 1.7 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  CNBC reported the Citadel unit’s Facebook losses earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  