-- Gupta Prosecutors Use Wiretaps, Call Records as Tip Links
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-05-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/gupta-prosecutors-use-wiretaps-call-records-as-tip-links.html
A secret recording of Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam and phone records from a McKinsey
& Co. conference room were presented to a jury by prosecutors to
link  Rajat Gupta  to what they say was an illegal tip about
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   On the fourth day of the  insider-trading  trial of Gupta,
who was a Goldman Sachs director and McKinsey executive in 2008,
prosecutors played wiretapped calls of Rajaratnam from Sept. 24,
2008, on which the hedge-fund manager talked to traders about
his buying Goldman Sachs shares the day before.  “I got a call at 3:58, right?” Rajaratnam can be heard
telling trader  Ian Horowitz  on the recording played yesterday in
federal court in  Manhattan . “Saying something good might happen
to Goldman.”  Rajaratnam repeated his remarks on another call to Horowitz
about 45 minutes later. These recordings were also played last
year at Rajaratnam’s trial, where he was convicted of insider
trading and sentenced to 11 years in prison.  After prosecutors played the recordings, Carolann Shields,
who works in McKinsey’s information technology department, told
jurors about phone calls on Sept. 23, 2008, from conference room
2704 in the consulting firm’s New York office, where Gupta was
working.  From 3:13 p.m. to 3:53 p.m., Shields testified, the phone
in the conference room dialed into a Goldman Sachs board call,
where, according to prior witnesses, directors were briefed on a
plan by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  to invest $5
billion in Goldman Sachs. At 3:55 p.m., calls from his
assistant’s office phone and one assigned to the McKinsey
conference room where Gupta was working were placed to
Rajaratnam’s line at Galleon.  Thirty Seconds  “It could have been connected for 30 seconds, or up to 35
seconds,” Shields told jurors.  Prosecutors say Gupta, 63, tipped Rajaratnam to the
Berkshire investment, prompting Galleon to buy 267,000 Goldman
Sachs shares. Galleon made almost $1 million in profit on the
trade at a time of stock market turmoil, the government says.  Gupta is also accused of passing tips involving the
earnings of New York-based Goldman Sachs and transactions
involving Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s
largest consumer-products company. Gupta, who denies wrongdoing,
was a director at both companies.  Gupta, who ran McKinsey from 1994 to 2003, is charged with
conspiracy and securities fraud. He has pleaded not guilty to
the charges.  ‘Circumstantial Case’  Prior witnesses in what the defense has called a
“circumstantial case” told jurors that Gupta participated by
phone in the Goldman Sachs board meeting on Sept. 23, 2008, and
that Galleon rushed to buy shares in the bank after Rajaratnam
got a call minutes before the stock market closed.  There is no direct evidence that the caller was Gupta,
defense attorney Gary Naftalis told jurors this week. On cross-
examination yesterday, defense lawyers suggested that Rajaratnam
was referring to Goldman Sachs’s plan to issue additional shares  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  