-- I’ll Have Another Owner Fights States Over Loan Business
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-05-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/i-ll-have-another-owner-fights-states-over-loan-business.html
When his colt I’ll Have Another
charged from behind to win the Preakness Stakes May 19, J. Paul Reddam joined an exclusive club of thoroughbred owners who’ve
been one race short of the Triple Crown.  Not far from the Baltimore track, Maryland state regulators
were probing the consumer loan business that helps fund Reddam’s
wildly successful investment in horses.  Reddam, 56, a former philosophy professor, made his fortune
with a subprime mortgage firm, DiTech Funding Corp., which he
sold to  General Motors Co. (GM)  in 1999 for more than $240 million.
He is now owner and chief executive officer of Anaheim,
California-based CashCall Inc., which makes mortgage and short-
term loans and has tangled with three states over alleged
violations of consumer-protection laws.  West Virginia officials, among the firm’s most persistent
critics, allege that CashCall violated state usury rules by
using a front company to charge annual interest as high as 99
percent and engaging in abusive debt-collection practices.  “CashCall created a business model intended to fly under
the protective radar of West Virginia laws,” Attorney General
Darrell McGraw  said  in a 2008 press release when the lawsuit was
filed. The case went to trial in October and a judgment hasn’t
yet been rendered.  CashCall paid $1 million in August 2009, without admitting
or denying wrongdoing, to settle claims by the state of
 California  that its practices included making excessive calls to
borrowers at work and at odd hours. Maryland, which last year
proposed banning the firm from offering mortgages because of a
licensing violation, also brought a 2009 action against CashCall
that resulted in a pending $5.7 million fine from an
administrative judge.  ‘Different Idea’  Reddam, whose racing team is preparing I’ll Have Another
for the final leg of the Triple Crown, the Belmont Stakes in  New
York  on June 9, has CashCall emblazoned on his jockey’s silks.
In a phone interview, Reddam said that the lender’s services are
in heavy demand. He blamed the firm’s legal issues on the
confusing patchwork of state regulations.  “Everybody has a different idea of what should and should
not be done, and what’s okay in each state,” Reddam said.  Born in Windsor, Ontario, Reddam attended the  University of
Toronto  and earned a Ph.D in philosophy from the University of
 Southern California . He taught at  California State University ,
 Los Angeles .  Reddam said he fell in love with horse racing while still a
student. At Santa Anita track in Arcadia, California, he said,
he was dazzled to watch Spectacular Bid, a horse that won the
first two legs of the Triple Crown in 1979.  Lucrative Bet  By last year Reddam owned at least 34 thoroughbreds,
according to the  Jockey Club , which tracks horse names. One of
them was I’ll Have Another, which he bought for a modest
$35,000. The bet has paid off handsomely with purses totaling
$2.7 million so far, according to the  Jockey Club . Having won
the  Kentucky Derby  and the Preakness, the colt needs a victory
in the Belmont to become the first Triple Crown winner since
Affirmed in 1978.  In a 2006 interview with the magazine of the Thoroughbred
Owners of California, Reddam said he left academia for one
reason: “Money.”  Reddam worked for several mortgage lenders before founding
DiTech in 1995. Within three years its 700 employees were
generating $45 million in annual revenue, according to an April
11 filing in U.S. Tax Court. Reddam sold DiTech to GMAC Mortgage
Corp., a subsidiary of GM that became  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  after
its parent company’s bankruptcy in 2009.  ‘Millstone’  DiTech became part of Ally subsidiary Residential Capital
LLC, which because of subprime mortgage losses became “a
millstone around the company’s neck,” Ally CEO Michael Carpenter said in 2010.  The subsidiary filed for bankruptcy May 14, days before the
Preakness.  Like DiTech, CashCall advertises widely to drive traffic to
its website. An early pitchman was Gary Coleman, who starred in
the 1980’s TV series “Diff’rent Strokes.”  CashCall is on pace to originate $9 billion in mortgages
this year, Reddam said. The firm also makes unsecured loans in
amounts up to $25,000, according to its website. That part of
the business amounted to about $180 million in loans last year,
Reddam said.  In an example of a loan on its website, CashCall says it
could offer a borrower $2,525 to be paid back in 47 installments
at an annual interest rate of 184 percent.  Loans with such rates are illegal in states with usury laws
such as  West Virginia . CashCall initially dealt with the issue
by contracting with Community State Bank of Milbank,  South
Dakota  to make loans that CashCall would purchase within three
days, according to Reddam.  State Lawsuits  Federal regulators ended the practice by 2006. Reddam said
CashCall had already abandoned the arrangement because of a high
default rate. Still, it became the basis of complaints by West
Virginia and Maryland, which alleged that CashCall was
outflanking state rules.  CashCall said in legal filings in West Virginia that the
loans in question weren’t illegal because they were made by a
bank, not by CashCall. The transactions didn’t fall under the
state’s usury law “because the loans were made, originated and
funded” by a South Dakota-chartered bank that was permitted
under federal law to lend money in other states at the same
 interest rates , according to the company’s filing.  The company made a similar argument in the  Maryland 
proceeding.  Maryland Cases  Reddam also asserted to the court that he is “neither
actively, nor personally involved in the day-to-day operations
and management of the company’s activities.” In a 2010
application for a business license in  Colorado , however, Reddam
filed a resume describing his CashCall duties as “responsible
for devising and implementing all major company policies --
including its various loan programs and interest rates.”  CashCall has come up in three administrative actions by
Maryland’s Commission of Financial Regulation.  The state last year proposed pulling CashCall’s license to
offer mortgages because among other things it failed to disclose
the California lawsuit in its application.  Maryland’s probe of CashCall’s partnership with banks in
South Dakota and  Delaware  resulted in the preliminary $5.7
million fine in December 2010 from administrative law judge
Nancy Paige, who called the arrangement “a deliberate attempt
to avoid the constraints of Maryland law.” The fine is on hold
pending an appeal in a related case involving a different
company.  South Dakota Tribe  In the third matter, Maryland proceedings have uncovered
details of a partnership that CashCall entered into with a
different kind of lender,  Western Sky Financial LLC , which
operates from the reservation of the Cheyenne River Sioux, a
federally recognized Indian tribe in South Dakota.  Western Sky’s owner, Martin A. Webb, has said his business,
based in Timber Lake, South Dakota, isn’t subject to state rules
because it’s on the reservation and because he is a member of
the tribe.  “Simply stated, state law does not apply to enrolled
tribal members within the confines of their home reservation,”
Webb wrote in an April 14, 2011, statement to the West River
Eagle, a newspaper.  Maryland regulators last year ordered Webb to stop doing
business in the state and in February rejected his assertion
that tribal immunity gave him the right to lend. Webb’s links
with Reddam’s firm surfaced during the state’s inquiry. At a
Jan. 31 public hearing outside Baltimore, an administrative
judge heard from consumers who did business with Webb and wound
up dealing with CashCall.  FTC Action  According to the hearing transcript, Peter Manilla, 61, of
 Silver Spring , Maryland, said that when he borrowed $2,500 from
Western Sky Financial “all my documentation” referenced
CashCall. “It will have 800 numbers that you could call, and if
you call those numbers, CashCall always answers,” Manilla said.  Webb didn’t respond to interview requests. He is also the
subject of an enforcement action by the Federal Trade
Commission, which in September filed a lawsuit in federal court
in South Dakota against Webb, Western Sky and associated
companies for allegedly deceptive contract language and illegal
wage garnishments.  Cynthia Jones, an assistant commissioner of enforcement for
the Maryland regulator, declined to comment on the CashCall
matters.  West Virginia  Norman Googel, an assistant attorney general in West
Virginia who is litigating that state’s lawsuit against
CashCall, said the details of the Maryland case echo Reddam’s
earlier arrangement in South Dakota.  “Here again, it appears that Reddam has found a way to
attempt to avoid state regulation,” Googel said in an interview
after examining Maryland’s documentation.  Reddam, in the interview, acknowledged the arrangement with
Western Sky. He added that he and Webb became friendly enough
that he named a horse -- a losing one, Reddam notes -- after one
of Webb’s other companies: Lakota Cash. The firm is also named
in the FTC lawsuit.  There’s nothing wrong with CashCall’s business because it
doesn’t arrange or fund the Western Sky loans but merely buys
them after the fact, he said. The high demand for his business
demonstrates that it’s filling an important gap in finance.  “The banking industry is missing this entirely,” Reddam
said. “There is a tremendous need for people to borrow a few
thousand dollars to help them over whatever crisis they are
having, and the banks are not serving that need, and they
should.”  In his  interview  with the horse-racing magazine in 2006,
Reddam elaborated on his business success, attributing it to
Americans’ shortcomings in financial management.  “We’re definitely not savers,” Reddam said. “So the
market that CashCall has pitched to are people who are employed,
making decent money, who spend it just as fast as they make it.
It is what it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  