-- Tiffany Cuts Full-Year Profit Forecast
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-05-24T16:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/tiffany-cuts-full-year-profit-forecast.html
Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  declined the most in
four months after cutting its full-year profit and sales
forecasts as weaker-than-expected results in the U.S. signal
that luxury shoppers may be shifting spending away from jewelry.  Tiffany, the world’s second-largest luxury jewelry
retailer,  fell  8 percent to $56.86 at 12:47 a.m. in New York,
after dropping 9.6 percent for the biggest intraday decline
since Jan. 10.  Smaller Wall Street bonuses and restrained spending from
European tourists is hurting sales growth in the U.S., leading
to a 4 percent decline in sales at Tiffany’s flagship store in
New York. At the same time, affluent shoppers are now more
inclined to open their wallets for shoes and handbags instead of
luxury baubles, said  Matt Arnold , an analyst for Edward Jones &
Co.  “Jewelry is probably the weakest area of the luxury market
right now,” Arnold, who is based in  Des Peres ,  Missouri , said
today in an interview. “It comes down to where the consumer
sees the best bang for the buck.”  Signet Jewelers Ltd. (SIG) , the operator of the Kay and Jared
jewelry stores, today projected second-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates, sending its shares lower.  Saks Inc. (SKS) 
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Sadove said on a May 15
conference call that the jewelry business wasn’t growing as fast
as bags and shoes.  Wall Street firms cut bonuses and delayed payments after
 investment banking  and trading revenue dropped in 2011. The cash
bonus pool fell by 14 percent last year to $19.7 billion, the
lowest since 2008.  Sales Underperform  Tiffany’s profit excluding some items in the year ending
Jan. 31, 2013 will be as much as $3.80 a share, down from a
previous projection of a maximum of $4.05 a share, the New York-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts projected
$3.98, the average of 23  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Kowalski said sales in the
Americas region, which accounts for about half of the jeweler’s
sales, “underperformed, continuing a soft trend that began in
the last quarter of 2011.” Sales in the first quarter rose 3
percent to $386 million in the Americas, compared with a 19
percent gain in the same period a year earlier.  Tiffany’s flagship store on  New York ’s Fifth Avenue strip
of luxury emporiums has long been a mecca to bonus-wielding Wall
Streeters and free-spending tourists.  “Weakness in the New York City local economy was a
factor,”  David Schick , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co, said
in a telephone interview. “Luxury tourism from  Europe  also has
slowed with the dollar stronger.”  New York Flagship  Schick, who is based in Baltimore and recommends investors
hold the shares, had projected sales at the Fifth Avenue
emporium to be little changed.  The flagship store accounts for 8 percent of worldwide
sales and a little more than 40 percent of that comes from
foreign tourists, Mark Aaron, a Tiffany spokesman, said at an
investors conference last month.  After strong sales during the past three years, Tiffany
also is coming up against tough comparisons, said Schick.  Revenue in the first quarter rose 7.6 percent to $819.2
million, compared with an increase of 20 percent a year earlier.  Sales this year will rise as much as 8 percent, less than a
previous forecast of a maximum of 10 percent, Tiffany said.  Net income in the first quarter climbed to $81.5 million,
or 64 cents a share, from $81.1 million, or 63 cents, a year
earlier, Tiffany said. Analysts projected 69 cents, the average
of 20  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit also was crimped by an 8.5 percent gain in selling,
general and administrative expenses, Tiffany said, citing higher
labor, store occupancy and marketing costs.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA is the world’s largest luxury
jewelry maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  