-- Highest Hungary Yields Since ’09 Aimed at Luring Households
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-05-25T15:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/highest-hungary-yields-since-09-aimed-at-luring-back-households.html
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is trying
to lure Hungarians back to the  bond market  with the highest
yields in three years as he seeks to finance the most indebted
eastern nation in the European Union.  The government is offering bonds to individuals at yields
as high as 5 percentage points above annual inflation, the best
real return on the retail securities since 2009, said Laszlo Andras Borbely, deputy chief executive of Hungary’s Debt
Management Agency. Hungarians cut their share of state debt to
3.5 percent at the end of 2011 from 10.1 percent in 2004 as the
country suffered its worst recession since the end of communism
and the state seized $12 billion from workers’ pensions.  The first EU country to be rescued by the  International
Monetary Fund  at the start of the global credit crisis in 2008
is saddled with $87 billion of debt at a time when yields on
Hungary’s 10-year bonds have climbed to the highest in the
region after Greece and  Portugal . The debt agency plans to  sell 
one-year bills to individuals next week with a yield of 7.91
percent, topping the 7.58 percent on equivalent notes sold to
institutions at an auction yesterday.  “It’s an important additional market,” Borbely said in a
May 15 phone interview. “The domestic population tends to buy
exactly when there is turbulence on wholesale markets.”  The government has set aside $8.2 million to advertise the
offer and open offices to sell the bonds, according to a decree
signed by Orban in April. The debt agency, known as AKK, hired
Oscar-nominated cinematographer Lajos Koltai to direct TV
commercials urging “unity for the cause.”  IMF Credit  While  government bonds  held by households rose to 801
billion forint ($3.3 billion) as of April from 746 billion
forint at the end of 2011, it may take years to boost household
ownership to 10 percent again, Borbely said.  Orban threatened to deny pension payments to 3 million
Hungarians if they didn’t turn over their privately managed
pension assets to the state in 2010. The forint plunged 12
percent against the euro the following year as the government
forced lenders to take losses on foreign-currency loans and
levied special taxes on banks, energy, retail and
telecommunications companies.  The forint has rebounded 4.9 percent this year after
hitting a record low as Orban sought a new  credit line  from the
IMF and the government approved measures to keep the  budget
deficit  within the EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product on May 9.  Hungary ’s currency appreciated 0.1 percent to
300.4 per euro by 4:49 p.m. in Budapest.  The yield on five-year bonds in forint traded at 8.51
percent, compared with a 2 1/2-year high of 10.8 percent on Jan.
4, generic prices compiled by Bloomberg show. The extra yield
over German bunds has climbed to 806 basis points from 405 basis
points a year ago.  Eroded Trust  The  yield premium  spurred foreign investors to increase
their holdings of the government’s debt to a record 4.319
trillion forint yesterday, compared with 3.366 trillion forint a
year ago, according to data from the AKK.  The bond advertising campaign will help “counter the
earlier measures which eroded trust,” said Adam Keszeg, a
Budapest-based analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , the
biggest primary dealer in Hungarian bonds. “The takeover of the
private pension funds didn’t serve to strengthen the propensity
to save,” Keszeg said last month.  Hungarians who bought bonds maturing in March 2017 will
receive an interest payment of 9.5 percent based on the premium
over an initial inflation rate of 5.5 percent in January. While
the premium will remain unchanged, the  inflation  measure is
reset annually to the rate in January.  Deposit Rate  The central bank forecasts inflation slowing to an average
3 percent next year from 5.7 percent in April, meaning the AKK’s
borrowing costs will fall, Borbely said. The yields on household
Treasury bills will remain above securities for institutions to
compete with bank deposit rates, Borbely said. Lenders are
offering as much as 8.5 percent interest on six-month deposits.  Hungary probably won’t “substantially” increase the share
of households owning government debt, said Viktor Szabo, who
helps oversee $8 billion in emerging-market debt at  Aberdeeen
Asset Management (ADN)  in  London .  “Knowing the wealth and income situation of Hungarian
households and their risk preferences, this can only be a
marginal source,” Szabo wrote in e-mailed comments on May 5.  Annual salaries in Hungary were 8.8 percent lower than in
neighboring Slovakia and 77 percent lower than  Germany  during
2010, according to data from the European statistics office. The
average monthly gross wage rose 2.7 percent in March from a year
earlier to 222,741 forint, the statistics office in Budapest
said in a statement on May 18.  ‘Trust the State’  Hungary’s GDP fell 1.3 percent in the first quarter of 2012
from the last three months of 2011, the Budapest-based
statistics office said May 15 in a preliminary report.  “Boosting households’ debt holdings would require either a
substantial increase in real wages, which is tough amid zero GDP
growth, or it would require redirecting savings, but from
where?” Szabo said.  For Laszlo Deak, a 67-year-old pensioner who grew up under
communism, the state remains the most trusted destination for
investments.  “My relatives and I all keep the small sums saved up for
funerals or hospital emergencies at the Treasury,” Deak said,
as he entered the Budapest building where government bonds are
sold. “It is perfectly safe, I trust the state,” he said,
adding that he trusted private investment providers less.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  