-- In Defense of the Faculty Lounge
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-05-24T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/in-defense-of-the-faculty-lounge.html
I rise to defend the faculty lounge,
that magical idea factory that has become, in the current
presidential campaign, an object of unexpected derision.  Mitt Romney  and his supporters have developed the
unfortunate strategy of referring to President  Barack Obama  as a
product of “the faculty lounge.” I would like to appeal to them,
respectfully, to stop.  Some articles have  pointed to  the oddity of the swipe
against the Democratic incumbent, given Romney’s two Harvard
degrees. The problem isn’t the Republican candidate’s resume.
It’s his effort to transform membership in a university faculty
into a pejorative.  If what he means is that the professoriate at most
universities is overwhelmingly Democratic, then the claim might
be true if not particularly interesting, akin to criticizing a
Republican on the grounds that he’s a member of  the PGA . I
suspect that those who refer to the faculty lounge, conjuring
the image of a physical location, mean to imply something more
sinister: a place where the left hatches its nefarious schemes
to undermine American values.  I will admit to a certain bias here, having been a
professor for 30 years. Nevertheless, I would suggest that
university faculties, and the lounges where they do indeed
occasionally congregate, constitute among America’s greatest
triumphs -- and a major competitive advantage.  Not Lounging Around  Families from all over the world -- and, here at home, from
across the political spectrum -- send their children to
America’s great colleges and universities. What higher education
offers isn’t merely a credential. At its best, the campus
remains the world’s freest forum for the thoughtful and
reflective exchange of ideas. The symbol of that exchange is the
faculty lounge.  To believe in the faculty lounge is to believe that ideas
matter, that people can and often do respond to appeals not to
their self-interest but to their reason. As the economist
Deirdre N. McCloskey argues persuasively in her excellent book
“Bourgeois Dignity: Why Economics Can’t Explain the Modern
World,” it is better ideas more than anything else that have
built the West. You cannot explain the Industrial Revolution,
for example, simply by “adding up the material causes.” There
are reasons that some countries adopt particular technologies,
laws or norms that others could but don’t. One of those reasons,
McCloskey contends, is better ideas.  Once we concede the power of ideas, we must envision places
where ideas are nurtured. They do not arise fully grown. They
emerge gradually, through dialectic aided by argument and
reason, and although that conversation might take place
anywhere, our colleges and universities pursue as a particular
part of their mission the cultivation of the idea.  I am the first to admit that there is some degree of
silliness and pretension on the best of campuses. A few years
ago, I had occasion to chat with an Ivy League professor who had
published a vehement attack on a controversial book. Skeptical
about some of his claims, I asked him a couple of elementary
questions, and he soon admitted that he had never read the book
in question.  Yes, there is the occasional case of political correctness
gone awry. Everyone has a favorite horror story. Consider the
sad but well-known tale of a state university employee who was
threatened with disciplinary action for reading  a book  from the
university library about how students at  Notre Dame  fought
against the Ku Klux Klan. (School authorities  backed down  after
bad publicity.)  Exchanging Ideas  There are also on campuses a fair number of people who seem
unaware of the possibility of rational or reflective
disagreement, or who refuse ostentatiously to read essays
expressing opinions different from their own. What makes this
sort of anti-intellectualism memorable is precisely that it is
the exception rather than the rule.  As a contrarian by nature, I tend to argue and question a
lot. In my experience, those who police the rules of correctness
most adamantly are often same as those whose contributions to
scholarship are the slightest. Serious intellectuals welcome
serious criticism.  Why, then, this urge to attack both university faculties
and the lounges where they gather for coffee and argument? One
answer was offered half a century ago by Richard Hofstadter in
his Pulitzer-Prize-winning “Anti-Intellectualism in American
Life.” The disdain for the highly educated, he points out, stems
from the supposition that the dominance of the intellectual is
undemocratic.  This concern is as old as the U.S. It was present in the
age of the Founders, who were seen as part of a “patrician
elite” that oppressed the common man. Those fears flamed into
the movement of Jacksonian Democracy, which burned across the
young nation in the first half of the 19th century. Among its
legacies is the requirement in many states that judges face the
voters.  Conservatives tend to dislike Hofstadter, whose contempt
for those whose politics differed from his own was legendary.
But on this point -- that the public distrusts elites -- he is
correct. Consider the case of  Abraham Lincoln  who, although
fiercely intelligent, lacked formal education. In part because
of this, Republican Party leaders viewed Lincoln with
skepticism, but as biographer David Herbert Donald  points out ,
Lincoln’s handlers intentionally packaged their candidate as the
self-made rail-splitter to enhance his appeal to voters who were
suspicious of elites.  Even today, few if any candidates run for office by
emphasizing their educational credentials. The universities have
metamorphosed into a Star Chamber: feared but needed. Everyone
wants the fruits of the basic research heavily done on campus.
Every family dreams of college education for its children. All
of us need the ideas that the campuses nurture. Indeed,
conservative critics should recall that it is not only Obama’s
health-care reform law but also President  Ronald Reagan ’s
economic program that was largely birthed in the faculty lounge.  Training the Mind  At its best, the university trains the mind. “The Nation’s
future,” the  Supreme Court   has observed , “depends upon leaders
trained through wide exposure to that robust exchange of ideas
which discovers truth ‘out of a multitude of tongues, [rather]
than through any kind of authoritative selection.’”  Intellect and authority are indeed antipodes. But the
largest threat to the freedom that has made our colleges and
universities the best in the world is not the criticism of
outsiders; it is the choice of insiders to withhold dissent.
Whatever their reasons -- to advance the goals of a political
movement, say, or because of a fear that unintellectual
colleagues might vehemently disagree -- their reticence is
counterproductive. Here is Hofstadter again: “Intellect is
dangerous. Left free, there is nothing it will not reconsider,
analyze, throw into question.”  Left free: There’s the point. The principles of the faculty
lounge at its best include tolerance of disagreement, preference
for reason over authority, and avoidance of slogan and emotional
appeal. These are the principles that those of us who teach
(and, one hopes, all adults) should model for our students, and
encourage them to carry with them into the world beyond the
groves of academe. The better we do our work, the better our
politics will be.  So, please,  Governor Romney . If you think President Obama
has bad ideas, say so. If you want to criticize his record, go
ahead. All of that is politics as usual. Please don’t drag the
faculty lounge into it. Leave that space free for our serious,
uncensored arguments. Our democracy will be the better for it.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
next novel, “The Impeachment of Abraham Lincoln,” will be
published in July. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  eradicating polio  and
 Obama’s military strategy ;  Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan Chase’s odd
disclosure ;  Michael Kinsley  on  China’s capitalist confusion ;
William Pesek on  Asia’s lessons for Europe ; Matthew Bryza on why
 Azerbaijan deserves a song contest ; Andrew Katzenstein and Scott
Bowman on  Eduardo Saverin’s tax implications .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 