-- India Plays Catch-Up on Myanmar as China, S. Korea Rush In
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-05-25T04:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/india-plays-catch-up-on-myanmar-as-china-south-korea-rush-in.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  seeks
to make up lost ground in the charge to secure resources and
business ties in Myanmar when he next week becomes India’s first
leader to visit its eastern neighbor in a quarter of a century.  India, which in British colonial days oversaw the monetary
and financial system of what was then Burma, ranked 13th last
year in investments in Myanmar, with $189 million pledged in
five projects, according to  data  compiled by IHS Global Insight.
 China  led with $8.3 billion, and South Korea, whose president
visited Myanmar earlier this month, pledged $2.95 billion.  “There is a huge gold rush going on in Myanmar right now
and everyone is jockeying for position,” said Rajiv Biswas,
chief economist in  Singapore  at IHS. “India is being left
behind. They are not as aggressive in their economic diplomacy
as countries like China and South Korea.”  India is resurrecting ties to a neighbor with 64 million
people and reserves of natural gas and lumber, as Myanmar
reconnects with the global economy following five decades of
isolation during military rule. Also on the agenda for Singh’s
three-day trip is cooperation to contain insurgent groups with
bases in Myanmar that have sought independence or greater
autonomy for some of India’s northeastern states.  Next ‘Frontier’  The Indian prime minister, beset by political challenges at
home that have seen his economic agenda stymied and contributed
to a sell-off in the rupee, arrives in Myanmar May 27. Singh,
79, will meet Myanmar’s leaders as well as pro-democracy icon
Aung San Suu Kyi, according to the Indian Foreign Ministry. He
brings a business delegation to discuss trade and investment.  Myanmar Prime Minister  Thein Sein ’s efforts to end military
rule have been rewarded with an easing of U.S. and European
sanctions, bolstering prospects for a nation the  International
Monetary Fund  said in January could be “the next economic
frontier in  Asia .” South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  last
week pledged to increase aid to Myanmar and the countries agreed
to enhance cooperation on energy and developing resources.  Singh will relax terms on a $500 million line of credit,
announce a new bus service between  India ’s northeast and the
tourist city of Mandalay and oversee the opening of branches of
Indian banks, according to an Indian Foreign Ministry official
who asked not to be named because he isn’t authorized to speak
publicly on the matter.  Rebel Groups  “Indian companies are conservative and have been worried
about stability in the country,” said Rajiv Bhatia, India’s
ambassador to Myanmar between 2002 and 2005. “The government
can and should be doing much more to hold their hands.”  On the foreign-policy front, Singh may address the issue of
rebel guerrillas from India’s Manipur state whom his government
says continue to find refuge in the forests of Myanmar. A number
of leading insurgent groups in India’s northeast have already
signed cease-fire agreements after decades of fighting.  Under British  colonial rule , India and  Burma ’s economic
systems were closely integrated. Burma used the Indian rupee and
shared the  Reserve Bank  of India as its central bank, according
to Sean Turnell, an economics professor at the Macquarie
University in Sydney. Today, India is Myanmar’s fourth-largest
trading partner, after China, Thailand and Singapore.  Natural Gas  Turnell, who is currently in Myanmar conducting research,
said he has seen few Indian businessmen. There were many western
executives for the first time and fewer Chinese, a result of
more competition from other countries, he said.  India approved in 2010 plans for  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) 
and  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  to invest a combined $1.3 billion in a
natural gas project in Myanmar.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , India’s
biggest commercial-vehicle maker, said in March last year it
will help set up a factory in Myanmar to build trucks.  Myanmar’s economy is set to grow 6 percent in the fiscal
year ending March 31, the fastest pace since 2006, on higher
natural gas sales and government measures to make it easier to
do business, according to the Asian Development Bank. The
country has one of the lowest per capita gross domestic products
in Asia, according to IMF estimates.  1990 Elections  The nation bordering China and India and with the second-
largest land area in  Southeast Asia  behind Indonesia earlier
this year implemented its biggest economic policy shift since
Thein Sein took office a year ago. The central bank scrapped a
35-year fixed currency system in April, and is moving to unify
multiple exchange rates for the kyat that have discouraged trade
and foreign direct investment, according to the IMF.  The last Indian prime minister to visit Myanmar was Rajiv Gandhi in 1987. The next year marked the public emergence of Suu
Kyi, daughter of a Myanmar independence hero. She was first
detained before 1990 elections in which her party won about 80
percent of seats for a committee that was designed to draft a
new constitution. The military rejected the results.  Besides Lee from  South Korea , U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and United
Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon have visited Myanmar in
recent months.  “Myanmar is back on the world’s radar,” Edward Lee, an
economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore, wrote in a
research note this month. “Myanmar is undoubtedly a country of
rich potential, but fulfilling that potential will be another
matter as it plays catch-up with its neighbors after decades of
political and economic isolation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  