-- Lindt Can’t Seek Trademark on Chocolate Bunnies, EU Court Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-24T09:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/lindt-can-t-seek-trademark-on-chocolate-bunnies-eu-court-says.html
Lindt & Spruengli AG (LISN) , the world’s
largest maker of premium chocolate, can’t seek a trademark for
chocolate rabbits with a red ribbon, according to a ruling from
the EU’s top court.  The  European Court  of Justice backed an earlier refusal
from the EU trademark office that stopped Lindt from winning
trademark protection for a chocolate rabbit with a red band.  “The shape of a chocolate rabbit with a red ribbon cannot
be registered as a community trade mark,” according to a
statement from the Luxembourg-based tribunal. “The Court of
Justice confirms that this shape is devoid of any distinctive
character.”  Lindt, based in Kilchberg,  Switzerland , has since 2004
failed to get EU-wide trademark protection for the shapes of a
plain chocolate bunny and chocolate bunnies and  reindeer  wrapped
in gold foil with red ribbon around their necks. It also failed
to get protection for the ribbon and attached bell. The EU
trademark agency based in Alicante,  Spain ,  in 2008 said  the
shapes were too common.  Lindt didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The chocolate maker in 2001 gained a trademark valid across
the 27-nation EU for a chocolate Easter bunny wrapped in gold
foil emblazoned with the word “Lindt” and bearing a red
ribbon. In today’s case Lindt was seeking protection for the
same bunny, minus the name, which would have given it wider
rights.  Lindt already used its existing EU trademark to block an
Austrian chocolate maker from selling products similar to its
own  58-year-old  Easter rabbit. This led to a dispute that
resulted in a ruling by the EU’s top court that the trademark
can be challenged if the Austrian chocolate maker proves Lindt
registered it in bad faith.  Today’s ruling from the Luxembourg-based tribunal is
binding.  The case is:  C-98/11 P  Chocoladefabriken Lindt & Spruengli
v OHIM  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 