-- Turkish Lira Gains First Time in 3 Days on Tighter Policy Bets
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-24T15:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/lira-weakens-third-day-as-greek-crisis-outweighs-tighter-policy.html
The lira rallied for the first time
in three days as a decline in euro-region manufacturing boded
further weakness for riskier assets and spurred speculation the
Turkish central bank will stick with tighter policy to defend
the currency.  The lira appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.8425 per dollar at
4:22 p.m. in Istanbul, its first advance in three days, paring
this month’s declines to 4.6 percent. The  yield  on two-year
benchmark debt was unchanged at 9.52 percent.  The central bank refrained from lending at its lowest 5.75
percent policy rate for a fourth day, instead offering to lend 2
billion liras ($1.1 billion) at 10.9 percent. European services
and manufacturing output contracted more than economists
forecast in May, suggesting the euro-area economy will struggle
to gather strength after stalling in the first quarter. The
European Union is  Turkey ’s biggest trading partner.  “Against this backdrop, the central bank is forced to
tighten monetary policy with a view to contain the depreciation
pressure on the lira,” Selim Cakir and Emre Tekmen, analysts at
 Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK) , said in an e-mailed note.  Turkey’s inflation rate at 11.1 percent is the highest in 3
1/2 years, more than double the central bank’s target for this
year. The country depends on imports for almost all its energy
requirements.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries in the 17-nation euro area fell to 45.9 from
46.7 in April, London-based Markit Economics said today in an
initial estimate. Economists had forecast a drop to 46.6, the
median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  “The decline in eurozone PMI also signals that external
demand channel continues to weaken, which increases downside
risks on GDP growth outlook,” Cakir and Tekmen wrote.  The government expects economic growth this year to fall 4
percent from 8.5 percent last year, the highest among major
economies after  China  and  Argentina .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  