-- Iran Nuclear Talks Show Progress Without Pledges, EU Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-05-24T14:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/iran-nuclear-talks-struggle-on-research-program-concerns.html
World powers and  Iran  unexpectedly
reconvened a meeting on the second day of talks in Baghdad after
negotiators said progress was made without binding pledges to
ensure the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear work is peaceful.  The European Union’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , and Iran’s top negotiator Saeed Jalili delayed a
scheduled press conference to reconvene a meeting of all seven
countries at the talks, her spokesman,  Michael Mann , told
reporters. The sides may meet again in Geneva in three weeks,
Iran’s state-run Mehr news agency said without citing anyone.  “There is progress, there is an atmosphere of optimism
after the Western powers responded to our requests,” Taleb
Mahdi, a member of Iran’s delegation, said in an interview.  Chinese, French, German, Russian, British and U.S.
negotiators -- the so-called P5+1 group -- have been meeting
with Iran since yesterday to try to overcome disagreements over
how to ensure the Islamic republic’s atomic work is peaceful and
forestall possible military strikes.  A Western official told reporters that Jalili met with
delegates from Russia and  China  before it was decided to resume
negotiations.  Iran and the P5+1 yesterday had the most detailed
discussions since the latest round of negotiations began in
February, according to a senior U.S. official who spoke on
condition of anonymity because of the talks’ sensitivity. While
many differences remained, some discord was expected and didn’t
derail the negotiation process, the official said.  Military Threat  “If there wasn’t progress, we wouldn’t still be holding
the talks,” Mann told reporters in the Iraqi capital.
“Progress has been made.”  The meeting was held in a bid to prevent possible military
strikes against Iran, a prospect  Israel  hasn’t ruled out. While
the Islamic republic, the target of a probe by the United
Nations International Atomic Energy Agency since 2003, denies it
wants to make nuclear weapons, it has refused to fully cooperate
with inspectors and has been hit with international sanctions.  “There’s been no progress in this round of talks,” Mahdi said in an
interview in Baghdad today before Mann spoke to journalists. The P5+1
offer calls on Iran to end all  uranium enrichment , Mahdi said.  UN Security Council resolutions oblige Iran to suspend its
uranium-enrichment program until inspectors verify that its work
is peaceful.  ‘Challenging, Sensitive’  Iraqi State Minister Ali al-Dabbagh said that while
negotiations between Iran and the P5+1 are “challenging and
sensitive, it can’t be said that they aren’t promising,” the
 Islamic Republic News Agency  reported.  The P5+1 is pressing Iran to immediately halt production of
uranium enriched to 20 percent, according to U.S. and European
diplomats at the talks. Uranium enriched to that purity brings
Iran closer to the 90 percent level used in most atomic weapons.  Iran may be willing to suspend production of higher-
enriched material provided it receives guarantees that it can
keep enriching to lower levels, Hossein Mousavian, Iran’s former
spokesman for nuclear negotiations, wrote in yesterday’s
Financial Times. He cited current Iranian officials.  The  Baghdad  talks broke up just before midnight yesterday,
a day after IAEA inspectors bridged an impasse with Iranian
authorities over wider access to suspected atomic sites,
including the Parchin military complex. IAEA chief Yukiya Amano
said he expected the accord to be signed “quite soon.”  Concrete Steps  Negotiators held detailed discussions on concrete steps
yesterday, according to a senior U.S. official who briefed
reporters afterward and characterized the meetings as the
beginning of a process rather than the end. Sanctions are
putting pressure on Iran, part of a dual-track policy that also
includes engagement, the official said, adding that the U.S. is
prepared to impose additional sanctions if necessary.  “It could take some time before we see that there is
really an agreement,”  Olli Heinonen , the IAEA’s former chief
Iran inspector and now a visiting professor at  Harvard
University , said on Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word”
yesterday. “We have an ample amount of time, at least until the
end of this year, to solve this problem.”  ‘Sacred Goal’  The Persian Gulf nation, which the IAEA said tripled its
output of higher-enriched uranium in February, could build an
atomic weapon in months if its leadership chose to do so,
Heinonen said. The IAEA is expected to issue its quarterly
report on Iranian uranium production this week.  Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad yesterday reiterated
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei ’s decree that nuclear
weapons are forbidden under the Islamic republic’s laws.  “Iran believes the annihilation of all weapons of mass
destruction is a sacred goal and that the security and health of
humans depend on it,” state-run Press TV cited Ahmadinejad as
saying.  Iran’s state-run Fars news agency reported today that the
possible removal of sanctions had been discussed during the
talks. Fars didn’t say where it got the information.  Before the Baghdad meeting, U.S. and EU diplomats ruled out
suspending any of the dozens of financial, trade, insurance and
energy-related sanctions imposed on Iran since November. The
governments said they were willing to offer limited confidence-
building measures such as nuclear-safety assistance, research-
reactor fuel, airplane parts and help fighting drug smugglers in
return for concessions.  The announcement that Iran, the second-biggest producer in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, had agreed to
wider UN inspections helped send  oil prices  lower this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Baghdad at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  