-- Iran Nuclear Talks Make Little Progress, Head to Moscow
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n ,   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-05-25T03:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/iran-nuclear-talks-show-progress-without-pledges-eu-says.html
Iran  and world powers agreed to hold
a new round of talks about the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear
program next month after failing to bridge differences during
two days of negotiations in Baghdad.  Negotiators from the U.S., the U.K.,  France ,  Germany ,  China 
and  Russia  plan to meet their Iranian counterparts June 18 and
19 in Moscow. It will mark the third attempt in three months to
address international worries that Iran’s atomic energy program
may be a cover for secret weapons work, and Iran’s concerns
about sanctions and diplomatic isolation.  “It’s clear that we both want to make progress and that
there is some common ground,” European Union foreign policy
chief  Catherine Ashton  told a news conference yesterday in the
Iraqi capital. “However, significant differences remain” and
“we do agree on the need for further discussion to expand the
common ground.”  One significant difference that came out of the Baghdad
talks was the Iranian desire to have the nations recognize its
“right” to enrich uranium, said a U.S. official, who briefed
reporters on the condition of anonymity because the negotiations
are private.  Iran went into the meeting seeking relief from at least
some U.S. and European Union sanctions on oil, banking,
insurance and trade that have hobbled its economy. That would
require verifiable and sustained evidence of Iran resolving
concerns about its nuclear program, U.S. and Western diplomats
in Washington said on condition of anonymity before the talks
began.  Enriched Uranium  The six major powers want Iran to curtail  uranium
enrichment  as a step toward building trust in negotiations and
to address a capability that troubles  Israel  because that
process can be used to make fuel for nuclear weapons.  Wendy Sherman, the U.S. undersecretary of state and lead
American negotiator on the Iranian nuclear issue, completed
talks in Baghdad and was due today in  Tel Aviv , where she will
“reaffirm our unshakable commitment to Israel’s security,”
according to a State Department statement.  Israel, which says Iran wants to destroy the Jewish state,
has threatened a military strike if negotiations and sanctions
fail to halt what they believe is Iran’s progress toward a
nuclear bomb. U.S. intelligence officials say Iranian leaders
haven’t made a decision on whether to seek a weapons capability.  Iran insists its program is for civilian energy and medical
research, and Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  has issued a
religious edict saying nuclear weapons are against Islam. Under
international safeguards, Iran now enriches uranium to 3.5
percent purity for civilian reactors and to 19.75 percent for
the production of medical isotopes.  UN Surveillance  One priority for the six powers is to address Iran’s
growing stockpile of 19.75 percent medium-enriched uranium,
which is a short processing step from the 90 percent purity
needed for weapons fuel. Iran’s known enrichment facilities are
under surveillance from the UN’s International Atomic Energy
Agency, which hasn’t cited evidence that enriched uranium has
been diverted to military use.  Iran’s top nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , told reporters
in Baghdad that while his country would consider discussing its
stockpile of 19.75 percent-enriched uranium, the Islamic
republic considers enrichment an “inalienable right” under
international law.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told reporters yesterday
in  Washington  that the six powers in Baghdad “set forth a
detailed proposal focused on all aspects of 20 percent
enrichment based on concrete step-by-step reciprocal measures.
We had intensive discussions with the Iranians on our proposal.
They put forth their own ideas. As Lady Ashton said, significant
differences remain.”  Sanctions Pressure  Clinton said the U.S. would “keep up the pressure” and
vowed that all U.S. “sanctions will remain in place and
continue to move forward during this period.” Under a new U.S.
law due to go into effect June 28, financial institutions in
nations that do not reduce significantly their imports of
 Iranian oil  may be cut off from the U.S. banking system if they
try to settle oil trades with Iran’s central bank or sanctioned
Iranian banks.  Negotiators will discuss sanctions during the next round of
talks in Moscow, Iran’s deputy nuclear negotiator, Ali Bagheri,
said in  Baghdad . The Persian Gulf country’s oil exports are
already down 500,000 barrels a day and may fall another 300,000
to 500,000 barrels a day when an EU oil embargo takes effect
July 1, Barclays Plc said this month.  Jalili said his government is counting on the “window for
cooperation” remaining open and expects future discussions to
bear “fruitful” results.  Oil Rises  Crude prices fell earlier this week after Iran agreed to
wider United Nations atomic inspections. Oil rose after
yesterday’s negotiations failed to produce an accord. Crude for
July delivery gained 76 cents to settle at $90.66 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  “There was never going to be a breakthrough in this
meeting,”  Dennis Ross , who served as President  Barack Obama ’s
chief adviser on Iran, said in an interview. The Iranians, he
said, “were never going to approach the negotiations by
offering a lot to begin with because they want to see what they
can get by offering the minimum.”  Ross said it was too soon to know if anything will change
in three weeks at the next meeting, though he said the six
powers have made clear “they will not simply accept anything
and are willing to let the pressure build on the Iranians.”  Expectations ‘Mismatch’  Bijan Khajehpour, an Iranian economist and consultant who
has studied the impact of sanctions on Iran’s economy, said in
Washington yesterday that he was not surprised that a deal was
not reached in Baghdad because “there was as mismatch between
expectations” on the Iranian side and the international
community.  The Iranian nuclear negotiators, he said, would never have
accepted the six powers’ offer to exchange Iran’s stockpiles of
19.75 percent enriched uranium for fuel plates for the Tehran
medical research reactor, because that deal is a repackaging of
a 2009 offer that ultimately fell apart. The Tehran research
reactor uses medium-enriched uranium to produce medical isotopes
for treating cancer patients.  “I always urge the negotiators to study the Iranian
mentality and culture,” he said. The Iranian side’s position,
he said, can be summed up like this: “Something we offered to
you a couple years ago and you now give it back to us? We can’t
accept that, it’s humiliating,” he said.  ‘Maximalist Positions’  Aaron David Miller , a Middle East specialist at the Woodrow
Wilson Center for International Scholars in Washington,
cautioned that both sides in the talks need to be ready to make
important concessions. In seeking an ideal agreement, “the
perfect can’t be the enemy of the good,” he said.  “These talks were always going to be challenging, because
making progress means tackling the thorniest issues that have
divided the two sides for years,” said  Trita Parsi , president
of the Washington-based National Iranian American Council.
“Both sides entered negotiations with their maximalist
positions, and neither budged.”  The six nations negotiating with Iran remain in close
agreement on their approach, according to the U.S. official who
briefed reporters. At the suggestion of the U.S., the Chinese
and Russians held separate talks with the Iranians to show that
they were on the same page as the Americans and Europeans, the
official said.  The Moscow talks will be the third round of negotiations,
following an April meeting in Istanbul and this week’s
discussions in Baghdad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Baghdad at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  