-- Irish Treaty Vote Will Be ‘Very Tight,’ Minister Hayes Says
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-05-24T11:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/irish-treaty-vote-will-be-very-tight-minister-hayes-says-1-.html
Irish junior minister  Brian Hayes 
said the result of the May 31 referendum on  Europe ’s fiscal
treaty will be “very tight,” as opinion polls placed backers
of the compact ahead of their opponents.  “It’s going to be a yes, but it’ll be much tighter than
people think,” said Hayes, whose role straddles the  Finance
Ministry  and Ministry for Public Expenditure and Reform, in an
interview with Dublin-based RTE Radio aired today. He said the
result won’t be the 60 percent to 40 percent victory for the yes
side that opinion polls are showing.  Ireland is the only country of the 25 European nations
signing up to the fiscal pact to hold a vote. While voters have
twice before rejected European treaties, concerns that Ireland
may be cut adrift from international aid should the treaty be
rejected is bolstering support for the compact.  Ireland’s debt agency said that a rejection of the treaty
would hurt the nation’s prospects of re-entering international
bond markets, according to Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
yesterday. The government is aiming to exit its bailout program
at the end of 2013 after stepping out of international bond
markets in 2010.  The yield on Ireland’s 2020 bonds, regarded as the
benchmark, fell 7 basis points to 7.36 percent today. While
borrowing costs have risen as the Greek political crisis
unfolded this month, it’s still about half the euro-era record
of 14.1 percent in July.  Odds  Irish voters are more likely to approve the treaty than
reject it, according to odds offered by Dublin-based bookmaker
 Paddy Power Plc. (PWL)  A yes outcome is 1-6, meaning a 6 euro stake
would return a one euro profit. A no vote has odds of 7 to 2,
meaning a 7 euro profit on a 2 euro wager.  The yes camp leads 50 percent to 31 percent, with 19
percent still undecided on how to vote, Paddy Power said last
week, citing a Red C phone poll of a 1,005 adults between May 14
and 16. Excluding don’t knows, 62 percent of Irish people
support the compact, the polls showed.  The yes side’s lead is “comfortable,”  John Hydeskov  and
Owen Callan, analysts at Danske Bank A/S, said in a note, adding
it’s too soon to declare victory for the yes camp. “Given that
undecided voters still make up such a large amount of the vote,
the government cannot be complacent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net ; 