-- Liverpool Names Hogan Commercial Head, Adds Communications Chief
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-05-24T23:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/liverpool-names-hogan-commercial-head-adds-communications-chief.html
Liverpool named Billy Hogan as Chief
Commercial Officer and appointed Jen Chang as director of
corporate relations and communications as part of a management
restructure at the 18-time English soccer champion.  Hogan, the former managing director of the marketing arm of
John Henry’s Fenway Sports Group, which owns Liverpool, will
take responsibility for all club-controlled revenue and business
development, the club said on its website. Bloomberg News first
reported Hogan’s appointment May 22.  “Having worked at a senior level within Fenway Sports
Management, Billy has been working alongside Liverpool FC for
the last 18 months on a number of partnership projects and
brings with him a rich pedigree of expertise and resource,”
Liverpool Managing Director  Ian Ayre  said in a  statement .  The hires continue a shake-up after Liverpool finished
eighth in England’s Premier League, its worst placing in 14
years. The club fired manager  Kenny Dalglish  after ending the
season 37 points behind champion Manchester City.  Chang joins from SI.com in  New York , where he was senior
editor for soccer-related content. He formerly covered soccer
for ESPN and also worked in  investment banking  and private
equity, an e-mailed statement from Liverpool said yesterday.  “Jen brings a depth and range of valuable international
communications experience gained over the past 15 years,” Ayre
said in the statement.  Communications Director  Ian Cotton  was one of the executive
casualties after Fenway Sports Group, which also baseball’s
 Boston Red Sox , bought Liverpool 18 months ago.  Executive Departures  Since then, Liverpool has also ousted Director of Football
Damien Comolli, Chief Medical Officer Peter Bruckner and
Commercial Manager Graham Bartlett. Hogan will assume the role
of Bartlett, a former  Nike Inc. (NKE)  executive who lasted less than a
year in his post.  Hogan helped secure an agreement, worth a record 25 million
pounds ($39.1 million) annually, to have Boston-based New
Balance Athletic Shoe Inc.’s Warrior Sports supply Liverpool’s
jerseys, replacing  Adidas AG. (ADS)  He has also been part of a team
putting together Liverpool’s off-season tour in the U.S.  He’ll work closely with Ayre and oversee sponsorships,
ticketing and hospitality, merchandising, memberships and
Liverpool’s Soccer Schools program, the club said.  “I look forward to working with the staff, partners and
future sponsors to grow and develop Liverpool’s brand and
commercial presence globally to help ensure the long-term growth
of this storied club,” Hogan said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 