-- J&J’s Blood Thinner Rejected by Panel for Expanded Use
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-24T20:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/j-j-s-blood-thinner-rejected-by-panel-for-expanded-use.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s
blood-thinner Xarelto failed to win the backing of a U.S.
advisory panel for broader use to prevent heart attacks and
strokes in patients with a common heart ailment.  Advisers to the  Food and Drug Administration  voted 6-4 with
one abstention to recommend against approval of Xarelto in
patients with acute coronary syndrome because of missing data
from 1,000 patients who withdrew from a late-stage trial of the
drug. The agency, which isn’t required to follow the panel’s
recommendation, is scheduled to decide by June 29 whether to
approve expanded use of the pill.  Acute coronary syndrome causes 1.2 million hospitalizations
a year, New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J said. The market for
treatments may total more than $1 billion, said  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst at Leerink Swann who estimated the vote
will delay the drug’s expanded use by as much as a year. Once
approved for acute coronary syndrome, Xarelto would compete with
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Brilinta and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Effient.  The missing data “is vexing and concerning” and
“challenges the interpretability and the inference of the
data,” Sanjay Kaul, a panel member and professor at the David
Geffen School of Medicine at the  University of California ,  Los
Angeles , said at yesterday’s meeting.  The expanded use probably is postponed three to 12 months,
rather than dead, wrote Fernandez in a note today. The delay
will benefit Bristol Myers Squibb Co. and  Pfizer (PFE)  Inc.’s
competitor Eliquis, Fernandez wrote.  J&J fell less than 1 percent to $63.10 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time.  Study Dropouts  Almost 1,300 patients dropped out early of a 15,526-
subject, final-phase study and withdrew consent for access to
their health information. While researchers were able to follow
up with 177 patients, confirming they were alive, some panel
members said the missing data made it difficult to judge whether
the trial results were skewed.  J&J owns U.S. rights to Xarelto, while Leverkusen, Germany-
based Bayer sells the medicine in  Europe . Xarelto has been on
the market since July to prevent blood clots in patients
undergoing knee and hip surgeries, and the FDA in November
approved the drug for use to prevent strokes in patients with
irregular heartbeats.  An FDA reviewer recommended approval of Xarelto in acute
coronary syndrome in a  report  May 21.  While there is increased risk of major bleeding, “the
benefit-risk ratio for Xarelto appears to be favorable,
predominantly because there is a reduction in” cardiovascular
death, Karen Hicks, a reviewer, said in the report.  Trial Results  Xarelto given at 2.5 milligrams reduced heart attacks and
strokes 15 percent compared with a placebo while resulting in a
two-fold increase in fatal bleeding and three-fold increases in
major bleeding, intracranial hemorrhage, hemorrhagic stroke and
minor bleeding that indicated a hemorrhage, according to the
report.  The companies should do a second study of Xarelto with
“meticulous collection of data,” said  Steven Nissen , a panel
member and chairman of the Department of Cardiovascular Medicine
at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio.  J&J argued the dropout rate in the three-year trial was not
unexpected given its length.  There has been a pattern of missing data and the FDA is
urging companies “to pin down” why people leave a trial rather
than just marking them as withdrawing consent, Robert Temple,
deputy director for clinical science in the FDA’s Center for
Drug Evaluation and Research, said during the meeting.  J&J Response  “We appreciate the thoroughness of the committee’s review,
and will ensure the questions raised today are addressed with
the FDA,” Paul Burton, vice president and cardiovascular
franchise medical leader at J&J subsidiary Janssen Research and
Development, said in a statement.  Xarelto is one of the medicines attempting to replace
warfarin, which requires constant monitoring and dose
adjustments to keep blood from getting too thin and putting
patients at risk of severe bleeding. Xarelto would be taken
twice daily in combination with aspirin and Plavix, made by
Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN)  and New York-based  Bristol-Myers. (BMY)   Xarelto’s sales may reach $799 million in 2015 for J&J,
according to the average of four analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  New York-based Pfizer and Bristol-Myers are awaiting a June
28 FDA decision on their blood-thinner Eliquis in patients with
an irregular heartbeat. Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, a closely
held company based in Ingelheim, Germany, won approval in 2010
to sell its blood thinner, Pradaxa, for those patients.  AstraZeneca is based in  London , while Lilly is based in
Indianapolis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  