-- Japan Stock Futures Rise on Expectations Greece May Stay
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-05-24T23:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/japan-stock-futures-rise-on-expectations-greece-may-stay.html
Japanese and Australian  stock   futures 
rose after Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said Greece is
likely to stay in the euro and a majority of the region’s
leaders supported issuing a joint bond.  American depositary receipts of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc., Japan’s second-biggest bank by market value, climbed
0.9 percent from the closing share price in  Tokyo . Shares of
Japan Tobacco Inc., Asia’s largest cigarette maker by market
value, may be active after saying it agreed to pay 475 million
euros ($597 million) for Belgium-based Gryson NV. ADRs of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s top oil producer and the world’s No.
1 mining company by market value, rose 0.5 percent after crude
and metal prices advanced.  “The comment by the Italian Prime Minister wasn’t a
surprise, but it had an impact on U.S. shares, which means
markets want to rebound unless another bad catalyst emerges,”
said Takashi Hiroki , chief strategist at Monex Securities in
Tokyo. “Not only U.S. shares, but also Asian shares are getting
close to bottoming out. They will be bolstered by being
undervalued and by firm earnings.”  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
June closed at 8,585 in Chicago yesterday compared with 8,560 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,580 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index rose 0.4 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index added
0.1 percent in Wellington.  Italy to Help  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  fell 0.1 percent
today. The index added 0.1 percent in  New York  yesterday,
reversing a loss of 0.6 percent, as Monti said in an interview
on Italian television station La7 that “ Europe  can have euro
bonds soon.” Italy can help push Germany to support the idea of
collective debt and to embrace the “common good” of Europe, he
said.  Stocks dropped earlier as three officials said China’s
biggest banks may fall short of loan targets for the first time
in at least seven years amid an economic slowdown.  In the U.S., data showed companies placed fewer orders for
computers, machinery and other capital equipment in April for a
second month. Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in May at the
slowest pace in three months, indicating the industry that has
spurred the expansion is cooling.  Oil yesterday rebounded from a seven-month low as world
powers and Iran struggled to overcome disagreements at their
second round of meetings on the country’s nuclear program. Crude
oil for July delivery gained 0.9 percent to settle at $90.66 a
barrel in New York.  Chinese Stocks  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum climbed 1
percent yesterday, the biggest gain since April 26.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S slipped 1.3 percent to 91.29 in New York,
led by LDK Solar Co., the world’s second-largest maker of
wafers.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slipped 1.7 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 5 percent advance by the  S&P
500  and a 1.1 percent drop by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 1.2 times book value,
compared with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.3 times for the
Stoxx 600, according to Bloomberg data. A number below 1 means
companies can be bought for less than value of their assets.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index has declined 11 percent this
month through yesterday on concern political chaos in Greece
increases the risk the nation will exit the  euro zone  and other
debt-stricken nations such as Portugal and Italy may follow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 