-- Japan Gas Binge Ties Third-Biggest Economy to One Fuel
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-05-24T16:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/japan-gas-binge-ties-third-biggest-economy-to-one-fuel-energy.html
Japanese companies are buying natural
gas assets and fields around the world, setting the nation on
course to be the first of the 10 largest energy users to bet its
future on a less-polluting fuel than oil or coal.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  led purchases this year as trading and
energy explorers bought gas properties in four countries and
pledged at least $30 billion to develop deposits. They’re
capturing supplies to generate power after authorities idled the
nation’s 54 nuclear reactors since the Fukushima disaster.  The spending plans and closures, which doubled gas’s share
of the Japanese power mix to about 50 percent, tie the country
to a single fuel more than any other major energy-consumer.
While that leaves Japan vulnerable to rising prices in the years
ahead, the world’s third-biggest economy is gaining an advantage
trading the fastest-growing fossil fuel for electricity.  “The big Japanese players are moving to lock in this
supply,” said Ken Courtis, founding chairman of Next Capital
Partners LP based in  Tokyo . “They have the ability to take on
these large projects today like few others in the world,”
backed by domestic banks insulated from  Europe ’s credit woes.  Japan’s six major trading companies, which together with
Mitsubishi are  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ,  Itochu Corp. (8001) ,  Sumitomo Corp (8053) ,
 Marubeni Corp. (8002)  and  Sojitz Corp. (2768) , had  $62 billion in cash  as of
March 31. Mitsubishi’s cash pile is the highest since 1995,
while Mitsui’s is close to the most in at least 20 years.  While the U.S. has used hydraulic fracturing to become the
world’s largest producer of gas and is becoming an exporter,
Japan is solidifying its position as the biggest liquefied
natural gas importer.  Age of Gas  “When we look back in a decade, we will understand that
the U.S. has moved from the age of oil to the age of gas,”
Courtis said. “Japanese companies see the strategic opportunity
and have the means to capitalize on it.”  Japanese companies announced 652 billion yen ($8.2 billion)
in gas and oil acquisitions in the first four months of this
year, close to the total for all of 2011, which set a record for
at least a decade, Tokyo-based researcher  Recof  said.  The spending indicates  Japan , due to publish a new energy
policy this summer, is charting its future largely on gas after
idling its last nuclear reactor this month, completing the
removal of a third of its pre-Fukushima electricity supply.  Japanese utilities plan to build an extra 24,000 megawatts
of gas-fired capacity, 40 percent more than now, within a
decade, according to government reports. Japan will also add 10
LNG import terminals to an existing 28 in the same period, thus
increasing storage capacity by 23 percent, the  data show .  Risky Dependence  “Raising dependence on LNG above 50 percent will probably
be thought of as risky” because of the fuel’s high price, said
Shigeki Sakamoto, a researcher with Japan Oil, Gas and Metals
National Corp. in Tokyo. Japan should add coal and other fuels
to the mix to avoid being “ripped off” on LNG, he said.  Higher fossil fuel imports may bring Japan into current
account deficit sooner than expected, which will make the yen
more sensitive to events abroad and tie its rate movements more
closely to that of the oil price, Barclays Capital analysts
Aroop Chatterjee and Amrita Sen said yesterday in a report.  Gas-fired generation has risen to about 50 percent of the
total since three reactor cores melted at Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station following the earthquake
and tsunami that struck Japan last year, according to CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets.  “It’s very tough to sustain that level for a long time,
but you may have to if nuclear doesn’t come back online,” Penn Bowers, a Tokyo-based utilities and trading companies analyst
with CLSA, said by phone.  Gas Reliant  Of the 34 countries in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, five rely on gas for more than 50
percent of their electricity, with Luxembourg the most
dependent, followed by the Netherlands, Ireland, Mexico and
Italy, according to International Energy Agency  website . Japan
would become the most gas-reliant in the top 10 energy consumer
countries, IEA data show.  Japan’s government has yet to win public support to restart
any of the country’s idled reactors. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has said some nuclear generation will be needed to ease the
strain on the economy.  Even on the premise that Japan cuts half to two-thirds of
its nuclear capacity and energy efficiency improves, the country
will need to replace more than 20 percent of its base load
power, Courtis said.  Lock In Supply  Inpex Corp. (1605) , Japan’s biggest energy explorer, bought 17.5
percent of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Prelude LNG venture in
 Australia  in March, in a deal  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  valued at
$700 million. Inpex also committed this year to spending $24.7
billion on developing its Ichthys LNG project in west Australia.  Mitsubishi and Mitsui, Japan’s top two traders, this month
agreed to buy a $2 billion stake in the Browse LNG project in
Australia, operated by  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)   Last month the two joined  Sempra Energy (SRE)  of the U.S. to fund
a $6 billion LNG export facility in Louisiana. The traders are
also partners in Russia’s Sakhalin II LNG project, which  OAO
Gazprom (GAZP)  said in January may be expanded for as much as $8
billion.  Australia has a further $5 billion of LNG assets up for
sale,  Adrian Wood , a Sydney-based analyst at Macquarie, wrote in
a May 2 report. Among those may be stakes in  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s
A$29 billion Wheatstone LNG venture and  BG Group Plc (BG/) ’s $20.4
billion LNG project in Queensland, he said.  “Australia is a preferred supply source, but they are also
starting to look beyond Australia,” said Neil Beveridge, a Hong
Kong-based analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Demand Shortfall  Japan will probably need to obtain a further 20 million
tons of LNG annually by 2018 to meet demand, Noel Tomnay, head
of global gas research at Wood Mackenzie Ltd. in Edinburgh, said
in a phone interview.  Replacing all 49,000 megawatts of nuclear capacity with the
same of gas-fired generation would require buying an extra 49
million metric tons of LNG, according to calculations by Osamu Fujisawa, an independent energy economist in Tokyo. Japan
imported a record 83 million tons in the year ended March 31.  Japan’s investment activity in energy has always been high
and the nuclear shutdown is only part of the reason for the
recent up-tick, said Michael Joyce, a partner at Norton Rose
(Asia) LLP in Tokyo, who advises Japanese companies on foreign
asset purchases.  The companies are enjoying the situation in which the yen
has gained 53 percent against the dollar in the past five years
while the rivals of the Japanese companies struggle to raise
finances, Joyce said.  Mitsubishi Confidence  Ken Kobayashi, the chief executive officer of Mitsubishi,
Japan’s biggest LNG importer, said he sees investing in gas as
having little downside. Global LNG use is likely to grow 50
percent by 2020 from 2011 and Mitsubishi could market its
foreign gas both domestically in the production country and in
Japan and the rest of Asia.  Mitsubishi has increased its own LNG capacity to 705,000
metric tons last year, up 42 percent from 2007. The company
accounted for 41 percent of all Japan’s LNG imports in 2010,
which includes production and trading volumes. Mitsubishi also
wants to diversify LNG sourcing geographically and make take on
operating roles in new development, Kobayashi said.  “On a 10-15 year horizon, LNG is going to continue to be
Japan’s core energy source,” Kobayashi said in a meeting with
analysts May 11 in Tokyo.  Ballooning Costs  Whether Japanese companies buy more assets or not, they are
already committed to “ballooning development costs” at their
current assets, Jogmec’s Sakamoto said.  Japanese companies may need to speed up gas investment
because traditional suppliers such as Indonesia are lowering the
volumes as their fields become exhausted and more of the fuel is
needed domestically, CLSA’s Bowers said.  Many of the new investments are aimed at the U.S. and
Canada on the premise that both countries will gradually lift
restrictions on exporting the fuel since vast quantities of gas
have been found in shale rock formations.  The gap between U.S. gas, which is mostly priced at Henry
Hub, and Asia’s oil-linked rates has widened to a record $13 per
British thermal unit, heightening interest in LNG exports from
 North America  to the world’s most populous region, Barclays
Capital analysts Shiyang Wang and Michael Zenker said in a May
15 note. Were U.S. gas to trade at the Asian price the sellers
would earn an extra $1 billion a day, Wang and Zenker said.  Gas Glut  Marketed U.S. gas production may climb 4.4 percent this
year from a record 66.22 billion in 2011, the Energy Department
said May 8 in its Short-Term Energy Outlook.  Sumitomo and  Tokyo Gas Co (9531)  in April agreed to buy 2.3
million tons of LNG a year from  Dominion Resources Inc. (D)  in the
U.S. with the price linked to Henry Hub. The arbitrage with
Asian  gas prices  would allow the companies to sell the fuel in
Japan for under $10 per Btu, Kunio Nohata, a senior general
manager at Tokyo Gas, said April 27. That’s more than 40 percent
less than what Japan currently pays.  The sales contract is also dependent on the U.S. approving
Dominion Resource’s Cove Point facility for export activity.  “People talk about Henry Hub and what it can do for Japan,
but there’s absolutely price risk to that over the long-term,”
CLSA’s Bowers said. “It could be good, it could be bad.”  With the north American gas market at a fledgling stage and
the premise vast, buying gas assets today is the equivalent of
acquiring oil reserves about a decade ago when crude traded at
$10 a barrel, Courtis said. Oil futures in  New York  are trading
around $91 a barrel today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  