-- Japan Consumer Prices Rise 0.2% as BOJ Target Stays Distant
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-05-25T01:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/japan-consumer-prices-rise-0-2-as-boj-target-stays-distant.html
Japan ’s consumer prices rose 0.2
percent in April from a year earlier, the third monthly
increase, showing the Bank of Japan remains distant from a 1
percent inflation target after years of falling prices.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 29
economists was for a 0.1 percent gain in  prices  excluding fresh
food from 0.2 percent in March. The statistics
bureau released the number in Tokyo today.  Takeshi Miyazaki, a leader of the ruling  Democratic Party 
of Japan’s anti-deflation league, renewed calls for more
aggressive action after the central bank this week refrained
from adding to monetary stimulus. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa 
reaffirmed a commitment to what his policy makers term
“powerful monetary easing” after that description was dropped
from a BOJ statement.  “As it becomes evident that the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s inflation
forecast is too optimistic, there will be more pressure on the
BOJ to do more,”  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at Citigroup
Global Markets Japan Inc. said in Tokyo. “For the economy to
get out of deflation, a sustained rise in wages is probably
necessary.”  The yen traded at 79.66 per dollar as of 10:15 a.m. in
Tokyo. Japan’s currency has gained more than 2 percent in the
past month as renewed concern about Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis bolstered the yen’s appeal as a safe haven.  The Bank of Japan forecast 0.7 percent inflation for the
year starting in April 2013 after setting the 1 percent price
target in February. That price goal could be achieved in two
years,  Eiji Maeda , the BOJ’s chief economist, said in an
interview on May 14.  Sustainable Growth  “Growth in consumer prices may reach 1 percent temporarily
but it’s hard to forecast when it will achieve sustainable
growth,” said  Kazuhiko Sano , chief strategist at Tokai Tokyo
Securities. For the central bank, “the main scenario for the
next easing is July. But it could move up to June depending on
developments in currencies, stocks and the global economy.”  Higher inflation has failed to feed into wages, with
monthly pay only rising three months in the past year,
government data show.  Rising energy costs may help to push up inflation, with
Japan nuclear free for the first time in more than four decades
after plant shutdowns in the aftermath of last year’s earthquake
and tsunami.  Tokyo Electric Power Corp. (9501)  estimated this week that
prices will increase 16 percent for households and 25 percent
for companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  