-- JPMorgan Makes Groupon’s Disclosures Look Good
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-05-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/jpmorgan-makes-groupon-s-disclosures-look-good.html
Who are you going to believe?  Jamie Dimon ? Or your own eyes?  With the benefit of hindsight, anyone can see there must
have been something amiss with the way  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  put
together some of the disclosures for its first-quarter  earnings
release  on April 13. The press release contained inaccurate data
about the market risks at the bank’s chief investment office,
which was the source of the mysterious $2 billion trading loss
that JPMorgan divulged this month.  Here’s the odd part: To believe JPMorgan, there was nothing
wrong with the company’s disclosure procedures at the end of the
first quarter, or at least not anything worth mentioning. In a
 report  JPMorgan filed with regulators May 10, the bank’s
management concluded that as of March 31 -- only 13 days before
the earnings release with the erroneous numbers -- the company’s
“disclosure controls and procedures were effective.”  Dimon, JPMorgan’s chief executive officer, signed a
 certification  letter the same day affirming as much. So  did  the
company’s chief financial officer, Douglas Braunstein. What was
the basis for their conclusion? A company spokeswoman,  Kristin Lemkau , declined to comment when asked that question. Surely
they must have had one. They just won’t say what it was.  From the standpoint of an outside layman looking in,
JPMorgan’s assertion looks ridiculous, even if there might be
some technical explanation for how it was legally accurate. Here
we have JPMorgan’s management on May 10 saying there were no
major weaknesses in the company’s disclosure procedures as of
March 31, even though the company in the same regulatory filing
had to correct serious errors in the disclosure it made on April
13.  Defies Common Sense  “It defies common sense,” says  Douglas Carmichael , an
accounting professor at  Baruch College  in  New York  and the
former chief auditor for the U.S. Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board, which regulates auditing firms. “It seems
logical that if the bad information was disclosed in the press
release in April, there must have been a material weakness back
on March 31 that permitted that to happen.”  The erroneous disclosures had to do with the company’s
“ value at risk ” numbers, which are supposed to provide an
estimate of how much the bank might lose in any one trading day.
Initially, JPMorgan said the average figure for its chief
investment office last quarter was $67 million. JPMorgan revised
that to $129 million when it filed its quarterly report May 10
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  That wasn’t the only such number JPMorgan had to correct.
The figure for the chief investment office is a component in
other calculations, including total value at risk. That amount
also was understated in the April press release and needed to be
fixed, as did some related disclosures.  Dimon explained during a conference call that the company
implemented a new value-at-risk model last quarter that it later
realized was “inadequate.” It then switched back to an older
version it had been using for several years, which showed the
higher number. The SEC says it’s reviewing the matter.  The point here isn’t to suggest anyone was fooled by the
statement that JPMorgan’s disclosure controls were effective. (I
doubt anyone was.) It’s simply a reminder to view what the
company says with great skepticism. Words that seem to have
clear meanings actually might not. To understand what is and
isn’t being said, investors must parse everything.  So what might JPMorgan be hanging its hat on? Perhaps the
company determined that any control weaknesses were immaterial,
although that’s hard to imagine. Investors didn’t think so.
JPMorgan’s  stock  is down 17 percent over the past two weeks.  Possible Explanation  Another possible explanation has to do with the way the SEC
has defined the term “disclosure controls and procedures.” The
SEC’s  rules  say it means “controls and other procedures of an
issuer that are designed to ensure that information required to
be disclosed” is “recorded, processed, summarized and
reported, within the time periods specified in the commission’s
rules and forms.”  Note the word “required” in that definition. Perhaps
JPMorgan reasoned that earnings releases are voluntary
disclosures, unlike the quarterly financial reports that
companies file with the SEC. Also, companies report value at
risk in the discussion-and-analysis sections of their SEC
reports as a way to satisfy the agency’s risk-disclosure
 requirements . However, they are allowed to use other methods
instead, if they choose to.  Then again, there is some precedent for citing press-
release errors as grounds for concluding that disclosure
controls are weak. In March, the online coupon company  Groupon
Inc. (GRPN)  said it had provided incorrect revenue and loss figures in
a Feb. 8 press release, due to accounting errors. Groupon
corrected those numbers by the time it filed its annual report
with the SEC. Nonetheless, its management concluded the company
had a “ material weakness ” that rendered its disclosure
controls ineffective, as of Dec. 31. That made sense, because
clearly it did.  It’s not only the letter of the rules that matters. So
should the plain English meaning of the words that companies use
in their communications with investors. Whatever rationale
JPMorgan might have been relying upon, its disclosure systems
obviously weren’t all functioning properly in real life, as of
March 31. The better approach would have been to just say so.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  eradicating polio  and
 Obama’s military strategy ; Stephen L. Carter on  Romney and
Harvard’s faculty lounge ;  Michael Kinsley  on  China’s capitalist
confusion ; William Pesek on  Asia’s lessons for Europe ; Matthew
Bryza on why  Azerbaijan deserves a song contest ; Andrew
Katzenstein and Scott Bowman on  Eduardo Saverin’s tax
implications .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  