-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for May (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-05-24T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-may-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Growth in Tenth District manufacturing activity rebounded in
May, and producers were more optimistic than in previous months.
The majority of producers reported stable or increasing capital
spending plans in the next six to twelve months, with very few
anticipating a decrease. Most price indexes moderated, although
more producers than in April plan to raise selling prices in
future months.  The month-over-month composite index was 9 in May, up from 3 in
April and equal to 9 in March. The composite index is an average
of the production, new orders, employment, supplier delivery
time, and raw materials inventory indexes. Manufacturing growth
increased in most durable and nondurable goods-producing plants,
with the exception of metal products which were largely
unchanged. Most other month-over-month indexes also rose in May.
The production index jumped from 0 to 17, and the shipments, new
orders, and order backlog indexes also improved markedly. In
contrast, the employment index eased slightly from 12 to 8. The
raw materials inventory index decreased from 5 to 1, while the
finished goods inventory index moved into positive territory.  The majority of year-over-year factory indexes edged higher in
May. The composite year-over-year index rose from 24 to 27, and
the production and new orders indexes also increased. The order
backlog index posted its highest level in nearly 7 years, and
the capital expenditures index edged up from 18 to 21. However,
the employment index fell slightly from 31 to 28 and both
inventory indexes decreased somewhat.  Future factory indexes rose solidly after two months of slight
moderation. The future composite index increased from 12 to 17,
and the future new orders and order backlog indexes also
improved. The future production and shipments indexes posted
their highest levels since early 2011, and the future employment
index inched higher from 15 to 18. The future capital spending
index jumped from 6 to 19, and the future new orders for exports
index increased after 3 months of declines. The future raw
materials inventory index climbed from -8 to 0, and the future
finished goods inventory index also rose.  Most price indexes fell marginally, with the exception of future
finished goods prices. The month-over-month finished goods price
index decreased to its lowest level in nearly three years, and
the raw materials price index dropped from 19 to 11, also a
three-year low. The year-over-year raw materials price index
decreased from 74 to 66, and the finished goods price index also
edged lower. The future raw materials price index eased from 54
to 48, while the future finished goods price index increased,
indicating more firms plan to pass recent cost increases through
to customers. 