-- Kenya’s Sasini Jumps to 2-Month High on Currency: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-05-24T12:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/kenya-s-sasini-gains-most-in-2-months-on-currency-nairobi-mover.html
Sasini Ltd. (STCL) , Kenya’s largest coffee
and tea producer by market value, climbed to the highest level
in more than two months after the domestic currency weakened and
as prices for the commodities rose.  The  stock  advanced 2.5 percent to 12.25 shillings by the 3
p.m. close in Nairobi, the strongest level since March 2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kenya’s shilling declined for the third time in four days,
sliding 0.4 percent to 85.35 per dollar, the lowest since Jan.
25 on a closing basis. African tea prices rose to an average of
$2.86 a kilogram at a weekly auction in  Mombasa , Kenya, from
$2.82 a week earlier, Tea Brokers East Africa Ltd. said on May
23.  Kenya  is the world’s biggest producer of black tea.  “The drop in the shilling means they are fetching more
money for their produce,” Wycliffe Masinde, an analyst at
Nairobi-based Dyer & Blair Investment Bank Ltd., said in a phone
interview today.  Auction sales account for over 70 percent of Sasini’s tea
revenues. The remainder of the tea is sold directly through
private treaty to both overseas and local buyers on an ex-
warehouse basis, the company said on its website.  Kenya’s output in the first quarter fell 15 percent to 72.4
million kilograms (159.6 million pounds) because of “severe”
hot and dry weather in February and March and an outbreak of
frost in January, the Tea Board of Kenya, the industry
regulator, said last month.  “There is a decline in production, which means prices are
likely to go up,” Masinde said.  In the financial year ended Sept. 30 the company recorded
improved profitability as the shilling weakened, Sasini said in
its annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  