-- Kidman Seduces Jailed Killer in Erotic ‘Paperboy’
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/kidman-seduces-jailed-killer-in-erotic-paperboy-cannes-film.html
Life spectacularly overtook art at
the  Cannes Film Festival  yesterday, as the director of an erotic
thriller starring  Nicole Kidman  confessed that the movie was, in
some ways, his own story.  “The Paperboy” -- by Lee Daniels, the Oscar-nominated
director of “Precious” -- shows a death-row inmate (John Cusack) getting sudden attention from a blond bombshell (Kidman)
and a diligent reporter ( Matthew McConaughey ) in a small Florida
town in 1969. The underlying theme is lust: in its routine male-
female manifestations, and in the hidden form of interracial gay
sex.  Daniels told bewildered journalists in Cannes how the novel
at the film’s origin carried echoes of his own life. His brother
was jailed for murder, leaving Daniels to raise the children. A
gay black man, Daniels had white lovers as recently as in the
1990s who ignored him in public because of his color.  “I live in the truth,” said Daniels, surrounded by his
cast. “All these people are people that live in my head and in
my world and in my existence.”  Kidman blurred reality and fiction in her own way by
plunging so deeply into the role that she refused to meet Cusack
off set until after the shoot. For budget reasons, she also did
her own hair and makeup.  “I actually went into my own bathroom -- this is so true -
- and I got out the fake tan and put on lashes that were old,”
said Kidman, wearing a sleeveless orange dress and diamante
hairpins. “And then I got out a hairpiece thing, and it was
platinum.”  Provocative Positions  “I threw it all on, and I took a photo and texted it to
Lee, all different provocative positions,” said Kidman. Lee was
impressed.  “The Paperboy” falls short of the expectations built up
by “Precious,” the harrowing story of a pregnant black
teenager battered by life and by her own mom. Dominating its
stellar cast were Mo’Nique (winner of the 2010 best-supporting-
actress Oscar) and Gabourey Sidibe, with a strong part for
 Mariah Carey .  Performances are more uneven in “The Paperboy.” To begin
with, the film has a period look and sound, which makes it posed
and stylized. Still more challenging for the actors, the
characters have multiple personalities.  Sunburned Barbie  As a result, Kidman and McConaughey initially appear
artificial. Kidman, alias Charlotte, seems a sunburned Barbie
doll, her lashes popping up like matchsticks. She sashays around
in her pink mini-dress, dreaming of a convict she knows only
from letters. Only later, when the hairpiece is off, do we see
the fragility that Kidman usually brings to her parts.  As the do-gooder reporter, McConaughey gives a slightly
wooden performance that he never shakes off. Though he has
darkened hair and a facial scar, he still reminds you of the
frothy character in “The Wedding Planner.” Nor does his faint
southern drawl ring true.  Much more believable is the scruffy convict played by
Cusack. During a 15-minute prison visit, he and Kidman share an
erotic moment without ever touching (and with three other people
in the room). Handcuffed Cusak quivers in silence while Kidman
reveals her torn tights and pink undergarments.  One observer is Jack (Zac Efron), the reporter’s blue-eyed
baby brother, who delivers the film’s most touching performance.
A lost soul searching for his absent mom, he falls hopelessly in
love with  Charlotte . Roaming his dad’s home in white underwear,
he fantasizes about her under the loving gaze of the maid, who
is also the film’s narrator ( Macy Gray ).  Alligators, Jellyfish  The movie grows on you the more of it you watch. Daniels
languorously films swampland infested with alligators and
beaches plagued by jellyfish.  While it never reaches “Precious” heights, “The
Paperboy” confirms Daniels as one of the top talents in
independent cinema. He brings a raw urgency to moviemaking that
makes you curious to see what he does next -- and what other
strands of his own life might be highlighted in it.  Rating: ***1/2.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Martin Gayford on  art  and Zinta
Lundborg’s  New York   weekend .  To contact the reporter on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Cannes at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 