-- N.Z. Projects Narrower Surplus as Greek Risks Darken Outlook
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-05-24T05:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/n-z-projects-narrower-surplus-as-greek-risks-darken-outlook.html
New Zealand’s government projected a
narrower  budget surplus  in 2015, the first in seven years, and
indicated that a disorderly exit by Greece from the euro region
heightens the risk to achieving that goal.  The operating surplus will be NZ$197 million ($148 million)
in the year through June 2015 from a previously forecast NZ$370
million, Finance Minister  Bill English  said in a fiscal plan
released today in Wellington. The budget balance will improve
from a NZ$8.44 billion deficit this year as the government curbs
new spending and sells assets to limit debt.  Prime Minister John Key’s government forecasts the
rebuilding of earthquake-devastated Christchurch and Asian
demand for commodity exports will bolster growth and revenue. A
recession in the euro area is factored into the outlook, while
additional turmoil that triggers a global slowdown may prompt
the government to delay the return to surplus, English said.  “Recent developments, of course, do increase the risk of
something a lot worse happening, for instance a disorderly Greek
exit from the euro, which could have an effect on our
prospects,” English told reporters. “The government is not
blind to that possibility.”  The  New Zealand dollar  traded little changed at 75.08 U.S.
cents at 3:10 p.m. in Wellington. Ten-year bond yields were
little changed at 3.503 percent, after touching a record low of
3.472 percent on May 18.  Credit Rating  Standard & Poor’s , which cut the nation’s foreign-currency
credit rating to AA in September, said the proposed budget would
have no immediate effect on the rating. The budget is the
“latest incremental step toward consolidating the government’s
fiscal settings,” the company said in a statement today.  “The fiscal outlook faces a number of challenges, including
renewed uncertainties surrounding trading partner growth and the
outlook for agricultural commodity prices, which may further
pressure revenues and hamper the government’s efforts to
stabilize its fiscal position,” Melbourne-based analyst Kyran Curry said in an e-mailed statement.  The rating outlook is stable.  New Zealand ’s rating could be
cut if the country’s external position continues to deteriorate,
he said.  The prospect of Greece leaving the 17-nation euro region
increased after parties opposed to the terms of the nation’s
second bailout by the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  won most of the votes in May 6 elections. A fresh
round of voting will be held June 17 after politicians failed to
form a government.  “If there’s quite a striking event coming out of  Europe ,
we would consider allowing the surplus to slip,” English said.
Still, the government’s imperative is to get on top of its
increasing debt.  Net Debt  Weaker growth in  China  would mean deficits persisting
through to at least 2016, the Treasury Department said in an
alternative scenario in the budget.  New Zealand’s annual average economic growth is forecast to
be 2.6 percent in the year ending March 31, the Treasury
Department said today. Growth will accelerate to 3.4 percent in
2013-14 amid rebuilding of Christchurch, the nation’s second-
biggest city.  The forecasts were prepared before the New Zealand
currency’s 7.5 percent slump in the past month as investors move
away from risky assets, on concern that  Greece  may abandon the
euro, reigniting Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  “There is quite a high likelihood the economy proves to be
weaker than they forecast,” said Stephen Toplis, head of
research at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, who
estimates the economy will grow 2.6 percent in 2013-14.  Risks to Forecast  Toplis’s projections don’t assume a worst-case scenario in
Europe and China. There are risks to the government’s central
growth forecasts, “which means there are genuine risks to the
surplus forecast,” he said.  Net debt is expected to rise to 25 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 14 percent in 2010 as the
government borrows to meet costs of earthquakes that struck the
southern city of Christchurch in the past 20 months.  Debt is likely to rise to 28.7 percent of GDP at its peak
in 2014 and decline to less than 20 percent by the early 2020s,
according to the budget.  The government today pledged NZ$4.4 billion of new spending
on health, education, research and science over five years to
2016. The new spending is being matched by a NZ$1.4 billion
increase in revenue and NZ$3 billion in savings from other
programs, it said.  The government expects to boost revenue by raising tobacco
excises and closing tax loopholes, English said.  New Spending  New spending on science includes development of a
technology institute. The government will also start to use
proceeds of asset sales on capital projects including schools,
hospitals and the rail system, he said.  The government expects to raise as much as NZ$7 billion
from the sale of no more than 49 percent in four state-owned
energy companies and also reduce its stake in Air New Zealand
Ltd. An initial public offering of Mighty River Power Ltd. is
expected in the third quarter.  The government will defer a planned automatic enrollment
into its KiwiSaver worker saving program, saying it isn’t
possible without putting the surplus forecast at risk.  The government increased its bond sale program for the year
ending June 30 to NZ$15 billion from the existing target of
NZ$13.5 billion. Sales will decline to NZ$13.5 billion in the
year to June 2013, the Debt Management Office said today.  The projected deficit in the current year is narrower than
the NZ$12.1 billion forecast in February because of delays in
spending on earthquake costs, the Treasury said. The estimated
2013 shortfall of NZ$7.9 billion compares with a previously
projected NZ$5.6 billion gap as those costs come to bear, it
said.  New Zealand’s 2011-12 budget shortfall is 4.1 percent of
GDP, narrower than the more than 8 percent gaps in the U.S. and
U.K., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australia  had a 3
percent deficit, which it has pledged to eliminate by next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  