-- Filling in the Details of the Obama Doctrine
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-24T23:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/nato-congress-give-obama-doctrine-a-dose-of-reality.html
What, exactly, is the Obama Doctrine,
and how is it doing?  Three events in the past week -- the NATO summit in
 Chicago , President  Barack Obama ’s commencement speech at the Air
Force Academy and congressional action on the 2013 defense
spending bill -- gave new insight into the strengths, weaknesses
and challenges facing the global defense framework first
outlined in the administration’s  National Security Strategy  of
2010.  First, the good news. The  NATO conference  was largely a
success in terms of its main goal: reaching agreement on a plan
to withdraw the bulk of allied forces from  Afghanistan  in 2014.
The administration has turned what could have become a mad dash
for the exits by the Europeans into a brisk, organized march to
the door. The struggle now is for financing. Given  Europe ’s
economic situation, the Obama administration failed to get
sufficiently generous commitments from allies to chip in for the
$4.1 billion that will be needed annually to keep Afghan forces
viable after Western troops leave.  Equally important but less-noticed events in Chicago showed
progress on one of the most welcome innovations of the Obama
vision: fighting global terrorism and other threats through
stronger alliances.  The NATO partners agreed on nearly two dozen initiatives
designed to provide military capabilities that none of the
European nations could afford on their own. These include a new
training center for helicopter pilots and ground crews in the
 Czech Republic , a joint stockpile of NATO’s munitions, and a new
initiative involving robots to clear  land mines . Most
significantly, citing  “surveillance and reconnaissance
shortfalls”  during the Libya operation, 14 nations agreed to
purchase five of Northrop Grumman Corp.’s Global Hawk drone
aircraft, which will be operated out of  Italy . That’s a win-win
for NATO and U.S. manufacturing.  Another tenet of the Obama Doctrine also got a boost in
Chicago: The alliance reaffirmed as a shared goal the
president’s call for a world without nuclear weapons. Count us
skeptical. Although we think the U.S. arsenal could easily be
reduced, with a new emphasis on air- and submarine-borne
tactical weapons rather than high-yield intercontinental
strategic missiles, a global scenario in which the U.S. would be
well served by giving up its nuclear dominance is hard to
imagine.  That said, we support the White House’s revised plan for a
Europe-based missile defense system to guard against  Iran . That
effort moved ahead with the turnover to NATO control of the
U.S.’s Turkey-based radar defense system, which is the front
line of the missile shield.  Obama’s address to the Air Force graduates in  Colorado
Springs ,  Colorado , on Wednesday highlighted the unformed nature
of the Obama Doctrine’s much-hyped pivot to  Asia . “We’re
setting the agenda,” he told the graduates, “in the region
that will shape our long-term security and prosperity like no
other -- the Asia Pacific.” What is that agenda?  Not that one expects a detailed explanation of a complex
military strategy in a commencement speech. But, in word and
deed, the administration has given little insight into what the
 pivot  entails. It has served up a few tepid military and
diplomatic initiatives in the Pacific region: 2,500 Marines
headed to  Australia , a tentative opening to Myanmar, a pact with
 Japan  to remove troops from Okinawa. The centerpiece of the
military strategy to contain  China  -- the Air-Sea Battle concept
initiated by Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  last summer --
remains a mystery. Challenged to explain it, Pentagon officials
are reduced to  gobbledygook , calling it a “focusing lens” that
will lead to greater “inter-service interoperability.” That’s
not much of a sales pitch to the public or to Congress, which
has to pay for it.  Half of that Congress, meanwhile, seems not much interested
in another of the president’s stated principles: to “spend
taxpayer dollars wisely.” The House passed a bloated 2013
defense reauthorization bill that tacked more than $4 billion in
spending on top of what the  Pentagon had requested . The changes
included slowing cuts in the size of the Marines and Army,
keeping afloat three cruisers the Navy no longer wants, and
spending $100 million to plan a missile defense system to
protect the East Coast from nonexistent threats.  Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon, of the House Armed
Services Committee, says the additional spending is necessary to
keep the military from becoming a paper tiger, but Panetta got
the better of him in saying that the House is simply trying to
“protect particular constituencies.”  Let’s hope the Senate, which will now debate its version of
the spending package, bears in mind that the failure of the so-
called budget  supercommittee  means we may have to find savings
of as much as $1 trillion from expected budget levels by 2021.
Otherwise, Obama should make good on his veto threat.  The administration, in fact, could go further with the
budget knife by eliminating the V-22 Osprey aircraft, the next-
generation Ford class aircraft carrier and the F-35 Lightning II
fighter -- at $1.5 trillion, the largest Pentagon procurement
program ever. Given planned personnel cuts, base closings are a
necessity. So are benefit reforms such as higher contributions
from retirees to the Tricare Prime health insurance program
(which, unfortunately, the Senate Armed Services Committee
balked at on Thursday).  In terms of keeping the U.S. safe and prosperous over the
long haul, Obama could make no greater contribution now than
standing tough with Congress over Pentagon cuts and finding new
ways to do more with less.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  eradicating polio ;
Stephen L. Carter on  Romney and Harvard’s faculty lounge ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan Chase’s odd disclosure ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  China’s capitalist confusion ; William Pesek on  Asia’s
lessons for Europe : Matthew Bryza on why  Azerbaijan deserves a
song contest ; Andrew Katzenstein and Scott Bowman on  Eduardo
Saverin’s tax implications .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 