-- NBC Exits Ratings Cellar With Young Viewers at Season End
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-05-24T22:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/nbc-leaves-ratings-cellar-with-young-viewers-as-tv-season-ends.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC network will
finish the TV season third among the younger viewers advertisers
target for the first time in eight years.  During the 2011-2012 season, the second under Comcast
ownership, the network climbed out of last place in the 18-
to-49-year-old audience demographic, NBC said, citing
preliminary Nielsen data.  The network edged past  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC among the
targeted viewers after NBC’s broadcast of the Super Bowl in
February drew a record audience. NBC also scored ratings
victories with “Sunday Night Football” and “The Voice”
singing competition, with both shows challenging “American
Idol” on  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox in the demographic.  “We’ve taken some key first steps towards rebuilding prime
time,”  Robert Greenblatt , chairman of NBC Entertainment, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We’re in a very good position to
build on the progress of this past season. We’re genuinely
excited about the future.”  NBC plans to jump-start two new programs by airing episodes
during its coverage of the Olympics in  London , which starts July
27, Greenblatt said in an interview in New York last week.  Super Bowl Factor  Excluding the Super Bowl, ABC said in an e-mail it finished
slightly ahead of NBC among viewers ages 18 to 49. In the
demographic, ABC had the biggest comedy with “Modern Family,”
the most-watched drama “Grey’s Anatomy” and the top first-
season drama with “Once Upon a Time.”  Nielsen will continue to collect data during the next two
weeks, including delayed viewing from DVRs, and depending on the
results, that could boost ABC’s ratings, the network said.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, climbed 0.5 percent to
$28.93 in  New York   trading  and the stock has gained 22 percent
this year. Disney, based in Burbank, California, rose 0.5
percent to $44.44 and has increased 19 percent.  In total viewers,  CBS Corp. (CBS)  won the ratings race for the
season, averaging 11.7 million a night and leading the second-
place finisher, Fox, by the largest margin in 23 years. ABC was
third and NBC last.  CBS network, based in New York, said this week it won the
ratings for the ninth time in the past 10 years.  In its own statement today, Fox declared victory among 18-
to-49-year-olds. CBS was second.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  