-- Near-Normal Hurricane Season Seen in Atlantic, U.S. Says
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-24T17:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/near-normal-hurricane-season-seen-in-atlantic-u-s-says.html
The 2012  Atlantic hurricane season 
may be near normal, producing nine to 15 named storms before it
ends Nov. 30, said Gerry Bell, lead hurricane forecaster at the
U.S. Climate Prediction Center.  Of those storms, four to eight are expected to become
hurricanes with winds of at least 74 miles (119 kilometers) per
hour, and as many as three may develop into major systems with
winds in excess of 111 mph.  “While this is less than we have seen in some of these
more active seasons, it’s still a lot of activity, so no one is
off the hook at all,” Bell said on a conference call. One
tropical storm has already formed this year even though the
season officially starts June 1.  Atlantic hurricanes are the costliest weather-related
disasters in the U.S. and pose a threat to oil and gas
production, agriculture and population centers in the eastern
half of the country.  Three of the top 10 most expensive natural disasters from
1980 to 2011 were hurricanes, including Katrina, which was the
most damaging event on the list, according to the  Insurance
Information Institute  in  New York . Seven of the 10 costliest
hurricanes hit  Florida , according to the Insurance Institute.  Florida, the second-largest producer of oranges behind
 Brazil , is directly in the path of tropical systems moving
across the Atlantic. The  Gulf of Mexico  is home to 29 percent of
U.S. oil output, 6.4 percent of gas production and 40 percent of
refining capacity.  Katrina and Rita  Katrina and Rita killed more than 1,800 people, caused $91
billion in damage and destroyed 113 energy platforms in the Gulf
in 2005. The total natural gas production lost in the 10 months
following Katrina was equivalent to 22 percent of yearly output
in U.S. Gulf waters, the department said. Gas futures hit a
record $15.78 in December 2005.  An average Atlantic season produces 12 named storms, those
with winds of 39 mph or higher. Bell said the biggest influence
on this year’s hurricane activity in the Atlantic will be an El
Nino, a warming of the central Pacific. If one emerges in
September or October, it could limit the number of storms.  El Nino increases the amount of wind shear that occurs in
the Atlantic. These winds tear at storms, preventing them from
forming. More storms form when the Pacific is cool or neutral,
as it is now, Bell said.  Last Year  In 2010 and 2011, 19 storms grew in the Atlantic, tying the
seasons with 1995 and 1887 as third-most active based on records
dating to 1851. In 2005, 28 storms formed, the most ever.  The 30-year average for hurricanes is six, three of them
major systems.  While those Category 3 or higher storms are among the most
dangerous, National Hurricane Center Director Bill Read said the
public needs to be wary of all.  “There is no such thing as just a tropical storm,” said
Read, who is stepping down as head of the Miami-based  center  on
June 2 and will be replaced by Rick Knabb.  Reed said a tropical storm with 70 mph winds can destroy a
city’s power grid after hammering it for several hours. Heavy
rain from systems moving inland can cause life-threatening
floods and destroy homes and businesses.  In 2011,  Hurricane Irene  struck the U.S. East Coast as a
Category 1 storm and killed at least 45 people and caused $7.3
billion in damage, including devastating floods in  Vermont  and
western  Massachusetts  that washed away bridges and leveled
homes. Irene’s name was retired from hurricane lists.  Best Estimate  Bell said the forecasts represent the best estimate of what
may happen based on sea surface temperatures, wind shear and
other factors in the ocean and are accurate 70 percent of the
time. Forecasters are getting better, though errors do occur.  “This is a seasonal hurricane outlook, not a statement of
fact,” said Bell, whose office is in  Camp Springs ,  Maryland .  In April,  Colorado State University  researchers who
pioneered long-range hurricane forecasting predicted 10 storms
would form, four of which would become hurricanes. Colorado
State will update its outlook June 1.  The National Hurricane Center and the Storm Prediction
Center are both parts of the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  