-- New Jersey Mayor, Son Charged With Hacking Recall Website
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-24T21:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/new-jersey-mayor-son-charged-with-hacking-recall-website.html
The mayor of West New York,  New
Jersey , a town just across the  Hudson River  from  Manhattan , and
his son were arrested and charged with hacking into an e-mail
account and website set up to recall him from office.  Felix Roque, 55, and his son Joseph, 22, appeared today in
federal court in  Newark  on charges of gaining unauthorized
access to computers and causing damage to them, U.S. Attorney
Paul Fishman in New Jersey said in a statement. The two didn’t
enter pleas and were released on $100,000 personal bond.  “The elected leader of West New York and his son allegedly
hacked into computers to intimidate constituents who were simply
using the Internet to exercise their constitutional rights to
criticize the government,” Fishman said in the statement.  The website, www.recallroque.com, was set up by an
unidentified Hudson County resident in February for the posting
of commentary on  the mayor , who is a Democrat, and his
administration, according to prosecutors.  Joseph Roque hacked into online accounts connected to the
website and disabled it, prosecutors said in a criminal
complaint. They said the mayor then “harassed and attempted to
intimidate” those associated with the site.  Joe Lauro, a lawyer for Felix Roque, didn’t return calls
seeking comment on the charges.  Roque is the second New Jersey mayor to be charged with a
federal crime in the past month. Hamilton Township Mayor John Bencivengo, a Republican, was accused of participating in an
extortion-bribery scheme in a criminal complaint filed April 25
in federal court in Trenton, New Jersey.  The case is U.S. v. Roque, 12-03645, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York 
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 