-- News Corp. Lobbyist Michel Sent 1,000 Messages on BSkyB Deal
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n ,   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-05-24T15:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/news-corp-lobbyist-michel-sent-1-000-messages-on-bskyb-deal-1-.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s chief European lobbyist
told an inquiry he pushed for secret documents and meetings with
U.K. government officials that were considered a conflict of
interest during its bid for British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc.  Fred Michel, who has handled News Corp.’s policy and public
affairs in  Europe  since 2009, made or sent more than 1,000 phone
calls, e-mails and text messages about the proposed takeover of
Britain’s biggest pay-television provider to an aide to U.K.
Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt and other officials. He said the
messages weren’t a conflict of interest.  “It’s the first time I had to deal with such a transaction
and I think that was the case for many people,” Michel said
today in London when asked if the contact was appropriate. “I
don’t think anything inappropriate ever took place.”  The inquiry was triggered by the phone-hacking scandal at
News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid in Britain and expanded
to probe the overall relationship between the New York-based
company and the U.K. police and politicians. Hunt’s future in
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s cabinet depends on arguing
that while his aide’s contacts with News Corp. were
inappropriate, his own weren’t.  Smith Resignation  Michel said internal News Corp. e-mails suggesting he had
communicated directly with Hunt on the BSkyB bid were actually
references to contact with  Adam Smith , the former Hunt aide who
resigned after the communications became public.  “I believe that whatever Mr. Smith tells me represents the
view of the secretary of state,” Michel said, referring to
Hunt. Smith, who has said the level of contact with Michel was
inappropriate, is also testifying today.  Robert Jay, the lawyer for the inquiry, said Michel sent
Department of Culture, Media and Sport officials 191 phone
calls, 158 e-mails and 799  text messages , 90 percent of which
were to Smith. Jay said Michel’s internal e-mails referred to
Hunt’s office being supportive of the bid in a way that wasn’t
made public, including saying News Corp.’s concessions in the
deal meant it was “game over” for those who opposed it.  Michel described himself as a “compulsive texter.”  Hunt “shared the ultimate objective of News Corp., which
was to secure the remaining shares of BSkyB,” Jay said,
referring to comments attributed to Hunt by Michel. “That’s the
only reasonable interpretation that could be borne on this.”  ‘Huge Risks’  Michel was rebuffed multiple times when he attempted to set
up meetings with the office of Business Secretary  Vince Cable ,
who was in charge of reviewing the  BSkyB (BSY)  bid before Hunt.
Cable’s adviser said that there were “huge risks for me to meet
up with him to talk about anything that has to do with Ofcom
business,” Jay said, referring to the U.K. media regulator.  “Making a representation to advisers or officials would
be the normal way to proceed,” Michel said.  Michel said he also received an advance copy of a speech by
Hunt to Parliament about the BSkyB deal, a leak Michel described
in an internal e-mail as “absolutely illegal.” The lobbyist
said the phrase was a “very bad joke” and that he learned
later the advance notice wasn’t unusual.  Hunt, a member of Cameron’s  Conservative Party , was given
responsibility for reviewing News Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound
($12.2 billion) bid for full control of BSkyB in December 2010.
News Corp. dropped the bid and closed the News of the World in
July to help contain the phone-hacking scandal.  Hacking Views  Disclosure of the communications between Smith and Michel
and the sensitive information they shared about Hunt’s review of
the bid prompted the opposition  Labour Party  to call on Hunt to
resign. An e-mail read out at the inquiry showed that Hunt asked
the lobbyist for advice on how to form a view on the hacking
scandal and its effects on the bid.  “My view is that  Jeremy Hunt  was probably supportive of
some of the arguments we were putting forward,” Michel said
after repeatedly denying he knew Hunt’s opinion on the bid.  Michel said the contact didn’t help him determine what Hunt
thought of the proposed bid, and that the culture secretary was
open-minded.  Jay also referred to evidence showing text messages between
Hunt and Michel, which the lawyer said was “schmoozing” and
weren’t related to the bid. The texts included references to
tennis matches, a speech by Hunt in the House of Commons, and
celebratory drinks.  Cameron had stripped Cable of responsibility for reviewing
the BSkyB bid after undercover journalists recorded him saying
he had “declared war” on  Rupert Murdoch , News Corp.’s chairman
and chief executive officer. Michel said it was more difficult
to communicate with Cable’s office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  