-- Fox, NBC, CBS Sue Dish Network Over Service Skipping Ads
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-05-25T18:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/news-corp-s-fox-says-it-sued-dish-network-over-auto-hop.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting Co.,
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  sued  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH) , alleging that their copyrights are infringed by Dish’s
PrimeTime Anytime video-on-demand service that allows viewers to
watch network programs commercial-free.  Dish created a “bootleg video-on-demand service,” which
if not stopped “will ultimately destroy the advertising-
supported ecosystem that provides consumers with the choice to
enjoy free over-the-air, varied, high-quality primetime
broadcast programming,” Fox said yesterday in a complaint in
federal court in Los Angeles.  CBS and NBC sued Dish separately in the same court. The
networks accused Dish of copyright infringement and asked for
unspecified damages as well as court orders preventing its
unauthorized distribution of their programs. Fox also sued Dish
for breach of contract.  Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, filed a separate
complaint yesterday in federal court in New York against Fox,
CBS, NBC and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC. Dish seeks a court ruling
that it isn’t infringing copyrights.  “Consumers should be able to fairly choose for themselves
what they do and do not want to watch,” David Shull, Dish
senior vice president of programming, said in a statement.
“Viewers have been skipping commercials since the advent of the
remote control; we are giving them a feature they want and that
gives them more control.”  CBS, NBC Lawsuits  In March, Dish introduced its Hopper set-top box, which
contains, in addition to a subscriber-controlled digital video
recorder, a Dish-controlled section of the hard drive that
records the entire primetime broadcast schedule of the four
major networks every night, according to the Fox complaint.  Dish operates the PrimeTime Anytime service so that the
copied shows can be watched commercial-free with its Auto Hop
feature, Fox said.  “We were given no choice but to file suit against one of
our largest distributors, Dish Network, because of their
surprising move to market a product with the clear goal of
violating copyrights and destroying the fundamental
underpinnings of the broadcast television ecosystem,”  Scott Grogin , a Fox spokesman, said in a statement.  Grogin declined to comment on Dish’s lawsuit in  New York ,
where News Corp. is based.  Second-Day Viewing  Dish said in its complaint that the Auto Hop feature lets
subscribers watch prime-time shows commercial-free the day after
they are recorded, not on the night when they’re first shown on
television.  “The lawsuits filed by the networks essentially argue that
‘consumers must watch commercials,’” Shull said today in a
separate statement in response to the networks’ lawsuits. “We
find that proposition absurd and profoundly anti-consumer.”  The Los Angeles cases are Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network
LLC, 12-4529; NBC Studios LLC v. Dish Network Corp., 12-4536;
and CBS Broadcasting Inc. v. Dish Network Corp., 12-4551, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  California  ( Los Angeles ).
The New York case is Dish Network LLC v. American Broadcasting
Cos., 12-04155, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 