-- Noda Risks Party Rupture in Push to Pass Japan’s Sales Tax Bill
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-05-24T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/noda-risks-party-rupture-in-push-to-pass-japan-s-sales-tax-bill.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s attempt to craft a deal to raise the consumption tax
risks rupturing his party three years after it ended half a
century of one-party rule.  Noda has staked his political career on passing a law that
would double the tax to 10 percent by 2015. The resurgence of
ruling Democratic Party of  Japan  powerbroker Ichiro Ozawa, an
opponent of the bill, threatens to thwart Noda’s efforts to
reach a compromise with the main opposition  Liberal Democratic
Party  that lawmakers from both sides say is possible.  “All Mr. Noda wants is to raise taxes, so he may go ahead
and join up with the LDP,” said DPJ legislator Yuko Mori, a
member of Ozawa’s group who resigned from her position as a vice
minister over the bill. “That would be unacceptable and I would
fight it with all my might.”  Failure to reach a deal could cripple efforts to fund
soaring welfare costs and curb a rising debt burden that  Fitch
Ratings  cited May 22 in cutting Japan’s sovereign rating. With
voters upset over the pace of rebuilding from last year’s
earthquake, an impasse could hurt both parties and open the way
for a third force ahead of elections that must be held by August
2013.  “All the prime ministers who increased the consumption tax
weren’t around three or four months after the tax increase went
through,” said  Jesper Koll , head of equity research at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Tokyo. “Noda deserves some credit for putting
his political career on the line.”  Fitch reduced Japan’s local-currency rating one level,
citing the “political risk” of doubling the tax. The same day,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said
the country’s debt could exceed 220 percent of gross domestic
product next year, and that raising the levy is a “top
priority.”  Bond Yields  Concerns over the situation have yet to push government
bond yields higher as  Europe ’s debt crisis lures investors to
safe assets. Japan’s 10-year bond yields fell to 0.815 percent
on May 18, the lowest in almost nine years. The rate traded at
0.870 percent late yesterday in Tokyo.  Ozawa, who was acquitted last month of violating campaign
finance laws, and his followers say the bill contradicts the
platform under which the party swept to power and could fail in
its aim of increasing  tax revenue  if it prompts consumers to cut
spending. As the No. 2 official in the DPJ, he engineered the
party’s August 2009 ousting of the LDP from half a century of
rule.  Voters are split on the  consumption tax . About 50 percent
oppose the plan, while 40 percent back it, according to a Nikkei
newspaper poll published April 23. Noda’s popularity was at 27
percent, down from 67 percent in September when he became
Japan’s sixth prime minister in five years. The newspaper
surveyed 924 people and provided no margin of error.  Middle Ground  The DPJ dispute comes as LDP leader Sadakazu Tanigaki has
signaled a willingness to find a middle ground. At the same
time, he has questioned whether the prime minister can fend off
a revolt in his own party.  “Is Mr. Noda going to put party unity first, give in to
Ozawa and delay the bill because a vote would cause friction?”
Tanigaki said May 9 on Fuji Television. “Or is he willing to
risk a party split by facing up to this debate?”  Democratic Party  lawmakers who favor the legislation say
they could agree with some LDP proposals in order to pass it.
What they won’t swallow is Tanigaki’s call for Noda to dissolve
parliament in exchange for backing the tax increase, as a snap
election would probably hurt both parties. The Nikkei poll put
support for the LDP at 25 percent and for the Democrats at 23
percent.  “The Democrats must on no account call an election,” DPJ
legislator Yukio Ubukata said in an interview. “We would lose
half, or perhaps even two-thirds of our seats.”  Osaka’s Hashimoto  An election also raises the possibility of a third party
taking seats from both the LDP and DPJ. Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto, who has led opposition to the government’s attempt to
restart nuclear  power plants  in western Japan, is expanding his
One Osaka party to gain national support.  “All existing political parties are on trial,” former DPJ
Prime Minister  Yukio Hatoyama  said May 19 on TV  Tokyo . “If
there was an election now, I think it would be a massive victory
for Hashimoto.”  The bill would raise the consumption tax from 5 percent to
8 percent in April 2014 and to 10 percent in October 2015. Noda
is seeking a vote in the current parliamentary session, which is
set to end June 21, though it could be extended.  Noda also faces another deadline when the DPJ in September
meets to either re-elect him or choose another party leader.
Senior DPJ lawmaker and former Finance Minister Hirohisa Fujii
said a deal must get done regardless of Ozawa’s objections.  “If we don’t, Japan’s economic situation will not be
stable,” Fujii said in an interview. “Funding social security
with debt and more debt doesn’t make for security.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  