-- Norilsk to Bid for Iorich’s Nickel Miner to Grow in Vietnam
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-05-24T16:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/norilsk-to-bid-for-iorich-s-nickel-miner-to-grow-in-vietnam-1-.html
OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel ,  Russia ’s
largest mining company, plans to bid for Vladimir Iorich’s  Asian
Mineral Resources Ltd. (ASN)  to gain access to a nickel-copper project
in  Vietnam .  Norilsk will offer С$0.11 ($0.11) a share for the Toronto-
based company, it said yesterday in a statement. The bid, to be
submitted June 4, represents a premium of about 69 percent over
the 20-day average price through May 22 and will be open for at
least 35 days, it said.  The Russian mining company, the world’s largest producer of
nickel, is looking to add resources and broaden its geographic
reach under a $35 billion investment strategy that runs to 2025.
Norilsk is seeking to increase metals production overseas to
equal its output at home, it said in October, adding that Latin
American, African and Indonesian projects are being studied.  Asian  Mineral Resources  more than doubled in value in
Toronto today, trading at C$0.08 as of 11:38 a.m. local time,
valuing the company at C$16.2 million.  “Norilsk’s proposed offer contains a number of terms which
are vague and highly conditional,” the Canadian company said in
a statement. “There is significant risk that Norilsk’s proposal
will not result in an offer to AMR shareholders which is capable
of being completed.”  Asian Mineral Resources is developing Vietnam’s Ban Phuc
project, which has 200,000 metric tons of nickel resources and
18,000 tons of copper, according to its  website . The company is
77.8 percent-owned by Iorich’s Pala Investment Holding, the
website shows.  Iorich was also a shareholder in Russian coal producer  OAO
Mechel (MTL)  until he sold his stake to fellow billionaire Igor Zyuzin
in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 