-- Nowotny Says Greek Exit Would Lead to ‘Massive Distortions’
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-05-24T12:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/nowotny-says-greek-exit-would-lead-to-massive-distortions-1-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said a Greek euro exit would lead
to “massive distortions.”  When asked whether he agreed with  Germany ’s Bundesbank that
such an event would be manageable for the euro area, Nowotny
told reporters in Vienna today that “depends on what you
consider manageable.” It “would create big, massive
distortions, where you don’t know what the consequences would
be,” he said, urging policy makers to “avoid speculation.”  Uncertainty about  Greece ’s future in the monetary union has
increased before new elections next month that could give power
to parties opposed to austerity measures. The Bundesbank said in
its monthly report published yesterday the consequences of
Greece reneging on the terms of its bailout “would be
significant but manageable.”  “A good central bank must always be ready for any
eventualities, but that doesn’t imply it has to speak about its
plans,” Nowotny said when asked whether the ECB had a
contingency plan for a Greek exit.  Euro-region manufacturing and services output contracted
more than economists forecast in May and  business confidence  in
Germany, the region’s largest economy, had its steepest decline
since August, two reports showed today.  Nowotny, who is also Governor of  Austria ’s central bank,
said “we have to be careful as the growth perspectives for the
euro area as a whole currently aren’t positive.”  “We never pre-commit,” Nowotny said in response to a
question about whether the ECB would react to the set of worse-
than-expected economic data. “We can’t be pressured into new
measures every few weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  