-- Obama Campaigns in Iowa, Pushes Clean-Energy Tax Credits
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-05-24T21:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/obama-campaigns-in-iowa-pushes-clean-energy-tax-credits.html
President  Barack Obama  accused
Republicans in Congress of blocking initiatives to bolster
economic growth and warned that the U.S. will lose jobs unless
lawmakers extend clean-energy tax breaks.  Obama used the backdrop of TPI Composites, which makes
structural components for wind-powered generators and employs
about 700 workers in Newton, Iowa, to promote his list of
economic measures that he wants Congress to act on.  The tax credits have had broad political support, according
to the administration, including the Chamber of Commerce, the
 National Association of Manufacturers  and the  National Governors
Association . The White House says failure to renew them could
cost as many as 37,000 jobs.  “This isn’t just an issue for the wind industry,” Obama
said in the text of his remarks. “Some of America’s most
prominent companies -- from Starbucks to Campbell’s Soup -- are
calling on Congress to act because they use renewable energy.”  The president is making his third visit to  Iowa  this year
after wrapping up four fundraisers in a two-day swing to three
states, collecting more than $2.5 million. Iowa is one of nine
swing states that was won by Republican  George W. Bush  in 2004
and switched to Democrat Obama in 2008. Obama and Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  will be competing to take
those states in what both parties expect will be a close
election in November.  Aiming at Republicans  In the speech at the factory, Obama hit on one of his re-
election themes: That Republicans are thwarting his agenda for
political purposes.  “They either want to do nothing at all or they want to
double down on the same failed policies that got us into this
mess,” he said. “We just tried their ideas for nearly a decade
and it didn’t work out.”  The tax credit is one of the items on Obama’s agenda that
he wants Congress to pass before November.  More than 450 manufacturing companies depend on the
production tax credit, said Terry Royer, chief executive of
Winergy Drive Systems Corp., which assembles and tests wind
turbine gear boxes, in Elgin,  Illinois .  “I will tell you, with the uncertainty we’ve already
created by not extending this tax credit, my company will be
impacted” along with many others, Royer said at a May 22 White
House briefing.  Wind Power  About 3 percent of U.S. power came from wind last year,
according to the  American Wind Energy Association . The industry
is seeking to provide 20 percent by 2030, AWEA said.  South
Dakota  led in terms of total electricity produced at 22.3
percent, followed by Iowa at 18.8 percent.  Obama next heads to  Des Moines  for a campaign rally at the
Iowa State Fairgrounds, where Romney, co-founder of private
equity firm Bain Capital LLC, responded to hecklers last year
with the statement “corporations are people, my friend.”  The Obama campaign distributed a video early today mocking
the presumptive Republican presidential candidate for the
remark.  Romney has accused Obama of attacking free enterprise and
of not understanding how the economy works. He has repeatedly
said in campaign appearances that Obama is “not up to the
task” of guiding the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Newton, Iowa, at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  