-- Obama Courts Colorado, California Donors in Money Race
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-05-24T04:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/obama-courts-colorado-california-donors-in-money-race.html
President  Barack Obama  courted donors
in Colorado and California as he sought to retain his edge in
the money race with Republican  Mitt Romney  and the independent
political groups supporting him.  Obama’s two-day trip outside of  Washington , bracketed by
official events in Colorado and Iowa, includes four fundraisers
for his campaign and the  Democratic National Committee  that will
take in more than $2.5 million.  The president used the first day of his trip to go on the
offensive against Romney, the former governor of  Massachusetts ,
saying he and Republicans in Congress are offering the failed
economic policies that led to the worst recession in more than
seven decades.  “There is nothing new about these ideas,” Obama told
about 550 donors yesterday at a Denver hotel, where general
admission tickets were sold for $250 to $500 each. “It’s the
same old stuff they’ve been peddling for years.”  National polls show Obama and Romney locked in a close race
for the White House in November’s election. Part of that contest
is the competition for money. Romney has started to raise funds
jointly with the  Republican National Committee , letting donors
write bigger checks. Romney and the Republicans said they
brought in $40.1 million last month, while Obama and the
Democratic National Committee said they raised $43.6 million.  Super-PACs  Through April 30 of this year, Obama raised $222 million to
$100 million for Romney, and the Democratic National Committee
brought in $169 million to $135 million for the Republicans.
Obama had 12 times more money in the bank than Romney, $115.2
million compared with $9.2 million.  Still, some Democrats are expressing concern about the
impact of so-called super political action committees supporting
Romney, which can take in unlimited donations from corporations
and individuals, and pro-Republican nonprofits that keep their
donors secret, such as Crossroads GPS, which is spending $25
million on anti-Obama ads.  “Republicans are in much better shape this year than they
were four years ago,”  Jack Pitney , a political scientist at
 Claremont McKenna College  in Claremont, California, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s clear the Obama campaign won’t have
the kind of overwhelming advantage that it had in 2008.”  Obama already has held more fundraisers for his re-election
-- 138 since April 2011 -- than  George W. Bush  or  Bill Clinton 
during their second presidential campaigns.  ‘Out the Window’  Democratic strategist Peter Fenn said Democrats can’t take
any risks. “In my view, the rules of the game are out the
window in this race,” he said. “Usually you don’t really begin
to pour it on until the fall. We’re pouring it on now.”  Obama was soliciting donors at two events last night in
 California , the most populous U.S. state and one that has
provided almost one-fifth of his campaign funds, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based campaign-
research group.  The first California fundraiser was a dinner held at the
home of philanthropists Lisa and Douglas Goldman of Atherton.
Goldman, the son of Levi Strauss & Co. heirs Richard and Rhoda Goldman, is chief executive officer of Certain Software Inc.,
which makes meeting- and event-planning software.  About 60 supporters paid $35,800 per person, or about $2.1
million, to attend the dinner. The guest list included Susan Wojcicki, a senior vice president at Google Inc.;  Tim Westergren , a co-founder of Internet radio provider  Pandora
Media Inc. (P) ; and actor Don Cheadle. The event featured a
performance by David Crosby and  Graham Nash  of the folk-rock
music group Crosby, Stills and Nash.  ‘Steer That Ship’  “We’re beginning to steer that ship in the right
direction,” Obama said with regard to the economy. And, as for
foreign policy, “we continue to be the agenda setters,” he
said during the public portion of his remarks at the dinner.  About 1,100 people were expected to attend a later event at
 Redwood City ’s Fox Theatre, where singer Ben Harper was
scheduled to perform, with tickets starting at $250.  Both campaigns are preparing for a close election. A
Washington Post/ABC News poll showed 49 percent of the public
favoring Obama and 46 percent favoring Romney, within the margin
of error. Those surveyed said their chief concern was the
economy, with Obama getting a 47 percent approval rating, tied
with expectations for Romney.  The May 17-20 poll of 1,004 adults has a margin of error
for the full survey of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  Address to Cadets  Earlier yesterday, Obama delivered the commencement address
at the U.S. Air Force Academy in  Colorado Springs , where he
vowed the U.S. will maintain its military superiority amid
defense spending cuts to create a “leaner” force as conflicts
end in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  “For the first time in your lives -- and thanks to Air
Force personnel who did their part --  Osama bin Laden  is no
longer a threat to our country,” Obama told the 1,073 cadets in
the academy’s class of 2012. “We’ve put al-Qaeda on the path to
defeat. And you are the first graduates since 9/11 who can see
how we’ll end the war in Afghanistan.”  The war’s end will ease the burden on U.S. forces and their
families and “make our military stronger,” Obama told the
cadets, saying they will face fewer deployments, more training
and greater preparation for their missions.  After another fundraiser in California today, Obama is
scheduled to make his third visit of the year to  Iowa . In
Newton, he will talk about the economy and continue to push
Congress to finish his to-do list, including the renewal of
clean-energy tax credits to boost the wind power industry,
according to a White House news release.  He also planned a campaign rally at the Iowa State
Fairgrounds in  Des Moines .  Iowa and Colorado are among the nine states that switched
to supporting Obama in 2008 after backing Republican President
George W. Bush in 2004, and will be battlegrounds in the
November presidential vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  