-- Obama Nominates Macfarlane to NRC, Replacing Chairman Jaczko
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-05-24T21:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/obama-nominates-george-mason-professor-macfarlane-to-head-nrc.html
President  Barack Obama  is nominating
Allison Macfarlane, a professor and member of panel studying
disposal of atomic wastes, to lead the  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission , replacing Chairman  Gregory Jaczko , who is quitting.  Macfarlane, an associate professor of environmental science
and policy at George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia, was
praised today by Democratic lawmakers and congratulated by the
Nuclear Energy Institute, which represents the industry.  The nomination of Macfarlane, who received a doctorate in
geology from the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , probably
will be considered jointly with Republican Kristine Svinicki,
whose term ends June 30 and has been re-nominated.  Macfarlane “is a highly regarded expert who was a member
of the President’s Blue Ribbon Commission on America’s Nuclear
Future, and has spent years analyzing nuclear issues while at
 George Mason University ,  Harvard University  as well as at” the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology,  Clark Stevens , a White
House spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Jaczko, 41, announced May 21 that he intends to resign as
soon as a successor is confirmed. His term expires in June 2013.
Republicans in Congress have been pushing for a swift departure
of Jaczko, who has been criticized by colleagues for his agency
management and alleged mistreatment of NRC employees. Jaczko
denies the allegations.  Joint Hearing  The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee will hold
a joint confirmation hearing next month for Macfarlane and
Svinicki, Chairman Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat, said in
an e-mailed statement.  “Allison Macfarlane’s background and experience
demonstrate that she has the strong commitment to safety that is
so needed in this post-Fukushima era,” Boxer said in a
statement, referring to the Japanese disaster last year.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat who
employed Jaczko as a science adviser, said in a statement that
Macfarlane “will make preserving the safety and security of
American citizens her top priority.”  Reid, an opponent of Svinicki, said the “best interests”
of the nation are served by considering both nominations
simultaneously.  Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky said in
an interview that he didn’t anticipate Republicans would block a
vote on Macfarlane, as long as Democratic leaders consider the
nomination “in tandem” with Svinicki.  ‘Active Contributor’  The  Nuclear Energy Institute  issued a statement that
congratulated Macfarlane and urged the White House and Senate to
expedite the nomination and confirmation process.  Macfarlane “has been an active contributor to policy
debates in the nuclear energy field for many years,” NEI
President  Marvin Fertel  said in an e-mail. “The NRC must
continue to be an effective, credible regulator if the nation is
to maximize nuclear energy’s role in achieving America’s
economic growth and energy security.”  Macfarlane’s 2006 book, “Uncertainty Underground: Yucca
Mountain and the Nation’s High-Level Nuclear Waste,” examined
technical issues facing the waste disposal site. Reid and Obama
oppose Yucca. Jaczko has been criticized for his handling of the
project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  