-- Occupy Wall Street Sues New York Over Books Seized by Police
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-24T20:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/occupy-wall-street-sues-new-york-over-books-seized-by-police-1-.html
Occupy Wall Street  sued New York City
over almost 2,800 books that were damaged or not returned when
police ejected protesters from Zuccotti Park in November.  Occupy  Wall Street , a group involved in protesting against
 income inequality  in the U.S., claimed in a complaint filed
today in  Manhattan  federal court that the city destroyed or
damaged most of the books donated to the group’s “People’s
Library,” which was set up in the park.  Zuccotti Park, near Wall Street in lower Manhattan, served
as headquarters of the protest until Nov. 15, when protesters
who had been camping in the park were ejected by police.  Occupy Wall Street said in its complaint that after the
protesters were forced to leave, city sanitation workers filled
26 trucks with property they had left behind. In addition to
books, Occupy Wall Street claims, the city failed to return
library furnishings, computers and other equipment.  The group is seeking at least $48,000 in damages and a
court declaration that the plaintiffs’ rights under the U.S. and
 New York  State constitutions were violated.  In addition to the city, Occupy Wall Street sued Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg , Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly and
Sanitation Commissioner John Doherty.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Temporary Library  Occupy Wall Street claimed that it has recovered only 1,003
of the 3,600 books that were in the temporary library in
Zuccotti Park on the night of the evictions. Of those, 201 were
so badly damaged that they are unusable, the group said.  Occupy Wall Street, which said it’s an unincorporated
association, filed the complaint through Christine Crowther and
Diego Ibanez, which it called the group’s “de facto
treasurers,” and five group members connected to its Library
Working Group.  The library was set up in the northeastern corner of the
privately owned park, according to Occupy Wall Street. Books
were kept in plastic bins and on metal shelves. More than 5,500
books had been donated to the library by Nov. 15.  Kate O’Brien Ahlers, a spokeswoman for  New York City ’s Law
Department, said the city hasn’t been served with the complaint.
She declined to comment on the suit.  The case is Occupy Wall Street v. City of New York, 12-
CV-4129, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  