-- Ohio Passes Fracking Rules That Opponents Criticize as Lax
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-05-24T23:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/ohio-passes-fracking-rules-that-opponents-criticize-as-lax-1-.html
Amid a “gold rush” to tap oil and
natural-gas reserves, Ohio lawmakers approved drilling rules
that environmentalists say were watered down to let companies
keep secret some of the toxic chemicals they use.  The Republican-dominated  House of Representatives  voted
73-19 today to approve the bill sought by Republican Governor
 John Kasich  that governs hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.  It would require that companies test water within 1,500
feet of proposed wells, report the fluids and chemicals used in
drilling and track wastewater injected into disposal wells. The
Senate passed the bill May 15 and must now approve House changes
before sending it to Kasich to sign.  “It’s our goal through this legislation to make sure we
address this expansion in an appropriate and responsible
manner,” Representative Peter Stautberg, the Republican
chairman of the Public Utilities Committee, said during debate
before today’s vote in Columbus.  Kasich, 60, has said the rules will help  Ohio  profit from a
boom in fracking -- which involves injecting chemicals, water
and sand underground to free gas reserves -- while protecting
water and the environment. States including Ohio,  Pennsylvania 
and  North Dakota  are confronting how to regulate fracking, which
the industry says is safe and allows increased production and
which environmentalists say can lead to contamination.  Hunting Gold  With a study projecting that drilling can add $4.9 billion
to the state’s economic output by 2014, Kasich has said
“there’s gold in them thar hills.”  “A modern-day gold rush is on in Ohio,” Thom Cmar, a
lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council in  Chicago ,
said in a blog posting.  Democrats who opposed the bill and environmental groups
including the  Natural Resources Defense Council  said while
Kasich deserves credit for seeking the regulations, they do not
go far enough.  “We need the transparency on the part of oil and gas
companies so we know exactly what is going into and coming out
of the drilling rigs near our homes,” Representative Robert
Hagan, a Democrat from Youngstown, said during today’s debate.  Kasich and the Ohio Petroleum Council have said the bill
provides the most stringent disclosure of any U.S. state by
requiring reporting of chemicals used in fracking as well as
fluids used in well construction and initial drilling.  Proving Harm  Environmental groups said lawmakers allowed frackers to
avoid reporting chemicals and fluids used during certain periods
of drilling.  The bill also lets companies decide which chemicals are
proprietary  trade secrets . The House Public Utilities Committee
added an amendment yesterday that says a property owner,
neighbor, or any person or state agency “having an interest
that is or may be adversely affected” by a chemical may sue
over whether a company is entitled to trade-secret protection.  The provision actually limits the ability to sue by
requiring a plaintiff to demonstrate harm from a chemical, said
Richard Sahli, a Columbus attorney working with the National
Resources Defense Council and a former chief counsel for the
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. In an interview, Sahli
called it “a loophole within a loophole.”  Can’t Please ’Em  The bill takes the best of fracking regulations in other
states while avoiding their pitfalls, said James Zehringer,
director of the Ohio Natural Resources Department.  “I don’t think we’ll ever make the environmental community
completely happy,” Zehringer said in a telephone interview.
“We’re doing things that I think are in the right direction to
keep the community safe and the environment safe and the people
safe.”  Environmentalists just want to ensure the law regulating
fracking is adequate, said Jack Shaner, deputy director of the
Ohio Environmental Council.  “Is it enough protection?” Shaner said. “We’re about to
have a grand experiment and find out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  