-- U.S. Stocks Gain as Italy’s Monti Eases Greece Concern
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-24T20:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/oil-japan-stocks-gain-on-china-optimism-won-drops.html
U.S. stocks ended the session higher
as Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said Greece is likely to
stay in the euro and that a majority of the region’s leaders 
support issuing a joint bond to fight the debt crisis. The euro
fell to an almost two-year low, while commodities advanced.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.1 percent to
1,320.68 at 4 p.m. in New York after slipping as much as 0.6
percent. The euro lost 0.4 percent to $1.2534 after touching
$1.2516, the weakest since July 2010. The S&P GSCI Index of 24
raw materials climbed 0.4 percent, rebounding from the lowest
level since October, as oil rose from a seven-month low. Ten-
year Treasury yields added four basis points to 1.78 percent.  Stocks  fluctuated  in the morning before turning lower at
noon as three officials with knowledge of the matter told
Bloomberg News that  China ’s biggest banks may fall short of loan
targets as an economic slowdown reduces demand for credit.
Shares recovered in the final hour as Monti told Italian
television station La7 that Italy can help push Germany to
support the idea of common euro-area debt and that Germany has
an interest to insure no country leaves the currency.  “Everything we’re talking about now is to put more order
in that disorder,” said  Dan Veru , who oversees $3.7 billion as
chief investment officer of Palisade Capital Management LLC in
 Fort Lee ,  New Jersey . “The market has come down not necessarily
because growth has slowed so significantly, but because of a
potential disorderly unwind of the euro. I share the view that
 Greece  won’t come out of the euro. There’s no mechanism in place
to do that.”  $4 Trillion  About $4 trillion has been erased from global equities this
month as concern deepened Greece will abandon the euro.  The  S&P 500  has risen for four sessions following an 8.7
percent slide from its four-year high on April 2 through May 18.
The slump dragged the index’s  price-to-earnings ratio  as low as
13.1, the cheapest valuation using reported earnings since
November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Data from the U.S. Commerce Department showed bookings for
non-military goods excluding aircraft decreased 1.9 percent
after falling 2.2 percent in March, the first back-to-back
decline in a year. Demand for all durable goods, those meant to
last at least three years, rose 0.2 percent, matching the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Applications for jobless benefits decreased by 2,000 to
370,000 in the week ended May 19 from a revised 372,000 the
prior week, Labor Department figures showed today. A
manufacturing index from London-based Markit Economics, released
for the first time today, showed that manufacturing in the U.S.
expanded in May at the slowest pace in three months.  Treasury Auction  U.S. notes retreated even after the Treasury sold debt at a
record-low auction yield for a second consecutive day as
 Europe ’s debt crisis underscored the status of  U.S. government
debt  as the preferred refuge.  Benchmark 10-year yields rose as Federal Reserve Bank of
 New York  President  William Dudley  said he doesn’t currently see
the need for additional stimulus. The $29 billion seven-year
note sale drew a yield of 1.203 percent, compared with the
previous record of 1.347 percent at the April 26 auction and a
forecast of 1.203 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight of
the Fed’s primary dealers. Yesterday’s five-year note sale also
drew an all-time low yield.  European Markets  More than three shares gained for every one that declined
in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , which rebounded 1 percent after
tumbling 2.1 percent yesterday. KBC Groep NV, Belgium’s biggest
bank and insurer, and ING Groep NV, the largest Dutch financial-
services company, each gained more than 2 percent. EON AG and
RWE AG rose after Commerzbank AG upgraded its recommendations on
 Germany ’s biggest utilities. Cable & Wireless Communications Plc
surged 18 percent after reporting earnings that beat estimates.  The Swiss franc weakened to its lowest level in two months
against the euro amid speculation the central bank may take
action to discourage investment in the nation through taxing
deposits. SNB spokeswoman Silvia Oppliger declined to comment on
the Swiss franc exchange rate. Finance Ministry spokesman Roland
Meier wouldn’t comment on the tax speculation.  The euro weakened against 13 of 16 major peers, with the
South African rand and New Zealand’s dollar climbing more than
0.7 percent.  John Taylor , founder of currency-hedge fund FX Concepts
LLC, said the euro is poised to rebound ahead of Greek elections
next month before resuming its decline against the  U.S. dollar .  “We are way oversold in the euro,” Taylor said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” with  Erik
Schatzker  and Sara Eisen. “The euro will come up until the
first of June or maybe the fourth. Then the reality of the Greek
election will set in and we’ll start going down again. I don’t
expect to see the euro get hammered in the next five or six
days.”  French, Austrian Bonds  French and Austrian bonds rose, sending their five-year
yields to record lows, as investors favored higher-yielding
alternatives to German securities amid the deepening euro-area
sovereign debt crisis. The French five-year yield decreased 16
basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 1.37 percent and went
as low as 1.355. Austria’s five-year yield slipped 12 basis
points to a record 1.27 percent, while its two-year note yields
dropped nine basis points to 0.41 percent.  Rates on 10-year Italian and Spanish bonds retreated at
least four basis points.  Oil rebounded from a seven-month low, climbing 0.8 percent
to $90.66 a barrel, as world powers and  Iran  worked to overcome
“obstacles” at their second round of meetings on the country’s
nuclear program. Cotton, silver and nickel rallied more than 2
percent to lead gains among 20 of 24 commodities tracked by the
S&P GSCI.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  increased 0.7 percent,
rebounding from a five-month low, on higher oil and China’s
pledge to look at policies favoring growth boosted energy and
metals shares.  India ’s Sensex Index jumped 1.7 percent, while
 Brazil ’s Bovespa tumbled 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  