-- Oil Heads for Fourth Weekly Decline; Iran Talks End Witho
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-05-25T06:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/oil-heads-for-fourth-weekly-drop-no-deal-in-iran-talks.html
Oil headed for a fourth weekly
decline, the longest losing streak since August, amid concern
that an economic slowdown in China will curb fuel demand in the
world’s second-largest crude user.  Futures were little changed after sliding as much as 0.5
percent. China’s biggest lenders may miss loan targets for the
first time in at least seven years, according to three bank
officials with knowledge of the matter.  Oil prices  may slip next
week as the global economy slows amid rising U.S. supplies, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Iran , OPEC’s second-biggest crude
producer, and world powers will meet again in June after they
were unable to negotiate a deal on the nation’s nuclear program.  “The market is one of comfortable supplies and an
uncertain demand outlook,” Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst
at CMC Markets in Sydney, said in a telephone interview today.
“The risk is to the downside in terms of price if we see more
reason to wind back the Iran premium.”  Crude for July delivery was at $90.82 a barrel, up 16
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 3:47 p.m. Sydney time. The contract yesterday increased 0.9
percent to $90.66. Prices are down 0.7 percent this week and 8.1
percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement rose 1 cent to $106.56 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
was at $15.74, from $15.89 yesterday.  Moving Average  Oil may extend its decline in New York as an indicator of
long-term technical momentum has turned negative, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. On the weekly chart, the moving
average convergence-divergence line is below zero for the first
time since November. Crude has technical support at $89.93 a
barrel, the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of the slide to
$32.40 in December 2008 from an intraday record high of $147.27
in July that year.  Twenty of 37 analysts, or 54 percent, forecast oil will
drop through June 1, the Bloomberg survey showed. Ten
respondents, or 27 percent, predicted an increase and seven
estimated prices will be little changed.  The drying up of loan demand attests to the severity of
 China ’s slowdown. The economy may grow in 2012 at its slowest
pace in 13 years, a Bloomberg News survey showed last week.
Stockpiles of crude in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer, climbed 883,000 barrels to 382.5 million barrels, the
highest level since August 1990, according to a May 23 Energy
Department report.  Iran Talks  Chinese, French, German, Russian, British and U.S.
negotiators will meet their Iranian counterparts for a third
time this year on June 18 to June 19 in Moscow, according to
 Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s foreign policy chief.
Iran went into two days of negotiations in  Baghdad  that ended
yesterday seeking relief from financial, trade, insurance and
energy-related sanctions imposed by the West to curb the
country’s nuclear program.  The Persian Gulf nation has threatened to shut the  Strait
of Hormuz , a transit route for a fifth of the world’s crude, in
response to an embargo. It produced an average of 3.3 million
barrels a day of oil in April, according to estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia , the biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 9.8
million a day.  The  New York Mercantile Exchange  cut the margin requirement
on its crude and gasoline futures effective at the close of
business May 29, according to CME Group Inc., the exchange’s
parent company. Initial margins for speculators for Nymex light
sweet crude will fall 9.8 percent to $6,210 per contract,
according to the notice. Margins for gasoline will decrease 8.3
percent to $7,425.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  