-- Oil Retains Gains on Iran Talks
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-05-24T19:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/oil-rebounds-from-seven-month-low-on-iran.html
Oil rebounded from a seven-month low
as world powers and  Iran  struggled to overcome disagreements at
their second round of meetings on the country’s nuclear program.  Prices climbed 0.8 percent as the talks produced no binding
pledges from Iran to ensure its atomic work is peaceful.
 Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s foreign policy chief,
said that negotiations are “moving forward” even as
“obstacles” stand in the parties’ way. Crude pared gains in
the last hour of floor trading as equities and the euro fell.  “Iran’s tactic is to make gestures that they want to talk
but there is absolutely nothing real,” said Kyle Cooper,
director of commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston.
“It’s just more talks, even though talks are better than
nothing.”  Crude for July delivery gained 76 cents to settle at $90.66
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It’s the fourth
time prices have risen this month. Futures are down 17 percent
from this year’s high $109.77 on Feb. 24. They settled at $89.90
a barrel yesterday, the lowest closing price since Oct. 21.  Brent oil for July settlement rose 99 cents, or 0.9
percent, to end the session at $106.55 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Iran presented a five-point plan and was willing to discuss
its production of uranium enriched to 20 percent levels, Ashton
said at a Baghdad press conference following the talks. The
group of negotiators from  China , France,  Germany , Russia, the
U.K. and U.S. is pressuring Iran to halt the processing of the
uranium.  ‘Chance to Buy’  “The one thing that is clear is that there won’t be a
quick and easy resolution to the nuclear standoff with Iran,”
said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy & Economic
Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “People were looking for
a chance to buy into the market after the big selloff.”  Oil prices jumped 8.3 percent in the first two months of
this year as the U.S. and EU tightened sanctions on Iran,
curtailing the country’s exports to  Europe  and raising
speculation that Iran may close the Strait of Hormuz, the
transit point for about a fifth of globally traded oil.  “Fears with Iran and potential supply disruptions” pushed
prices higher earlier this year,  Stephen Schork , president of
the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania, said in an
interview on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .  Negotiations ‘Incomplete’  Iran’s top nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , said two days
of intensive talks were “incomplete” even as he praised the
climate as “good.”  Negotiations have been underway since yesterday in an
effort to forestall possible military strikes against Iran, a
prospect Israel hasn’t ruled out. The sides will reconvene June
18 and 19 in Moscow. The first round of discussions was held
April 14 in Istanbul.  “The geopolitical uncertainty is back in the
marketplace,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst at futures brokerage
PFGBest in  Chicago . “Technically, there is a lot of support
below $90.”  While the Islamic republic, target of a probe by the United
Nations International Atomic Energy Agency since 2003, denies it
wants to make nuclear weapons, it has refused to fully cooperate
with inspectors and has been hit with international sanctions.  Iran produced an average of 3.28 million barrels a day of
crude in April, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
 Saudi Arabia , the biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 9.8 million a day.  Equities Slide  Oil reduced earlier gains as stocks slid in the hour before
the settlement, snapping a three-day rally for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. Equities fell after three officials said
China’s biggest banks may fall short of loan targets and as an
economic slowdown crimps demand for credit.  The euro touched $1.2516, the lowest level against the
dollar since July 2010. A weaker euro and stronger dollar curb
commodities’ appeal as an alternate investment.  “The market is reacting to the equity market going
negative and the euro retesting $1.25,” said Rich Ilczyszyn,
chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in Chicago.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 345,318
contracts as of 3:44 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 502,123
contracts yesterday, 14 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.45 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  