-- Oil Trades Near Seven-Month Low as EU Debt Concern Intensifies
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-05-24T08:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/oil-trades-near-seven-month-low-as-eu-debt-concern-intensifies.html
Oil traded near a seven-month low in
 New York  as a drop in  German business confidence  and
disagreement between European leaders on joint bond sales fanned
concern that the region will fail to resolve its debt crisis.  West Texas Intermediate futures were little changed, having
fallen below $90 a barrel yesterday for the first time since
November. German business optimism fell more than economists
forecast in May as speculation that  Greece  might leave the euro
area clouded the economic outlook. European leaders clashed over
joint debt sales as they called on Greece to stick with budget
cuts and offered no immediate relief for recession-wracked
 Spain .  “There are worries about what is happening in the euro
zone. The outlook is still very low and we are yet to reach a
conclusion,” said Thina Margethe Saltvedt, an analyst at  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA)  in Oslo. “As the uncertainty drags on, investors are
waiting a bit before coming into the market and that’s why
things have been drifting lower.”  Crude for July delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
was at $89.92 a barrel, up 2 cents, at 9:10 a.m. London time,
paring an earlier gain of as much as 91 cents. The contract
yesterday slid 2.1 percent to $89.90, the lowest close since
Oct. 21. Prices have fallen 8.7 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement was at $105.17 a barrel, down
39 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
was at $15.24, compared with $15.66 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  