-- Hollande Gets A-Minus on Promise to Women on Egalite in Power
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-05-24T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/hollande-gets-a-minus-on-promise-to-women-on-egalit-in-power.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
promised gender parity in his government and better access to
power for women. He kept his word, sort of.  Europe ’s second-largest economy now has an equal number of
men and women in its cabinet of ministers for the first time.
Still, women don’t hold the most critical ministerial posts and
men account for more than 80 percent of Hollande’s powerful
policy-making team at the  Elysee presidential  palace.  “Hollande has done a great job honoring his campaign
promise of parity in the cabinet, but it looks like he doesn’t
like to be advised by women,”  Marie-Jo Zimmermann , a lawmaker
from former President Nicolas Sarkozy’s party and head of the
 women’s rights committee  at the National Assembly, said in an
interview. “I give him an A-minus for his government. I can’t
be too nice to him. But the jury is out when it comes to his
team of close aides.”  Keeping his campaign pledge on parity was critical for
Hollande ahead of the country’s legislative elections on June 10
and 17 that will determine if his Socialist Party gets control
of the French Parliament. Winning over women, who account for 53
percent of the country’s electorate, will be vital to securing a
majority in the lower house of the National Assembly.  Hollande, 57, named 17 women in his  34-strong cabinet  of
ministers. Yet  Sylvie Hubac  is the only woman in his eight-
member core council of advisers that has the president’s ear,
drafts and directs his agenda and the nation’s policy.  ‘Virile Enclaves’  “It’s sexist and outdated,” said Alix Beranger, 33, a
founder of the feminist group La Barbe, or The Beard, one of the
45 such groups that got presidential candidates to sign a pledge
of parity. “It creates small, virile enclaves where it’s
extremely difficult for women to enter. There are more than
enough qualified women to be in that inner circle.”  Before being elected in 2007, Sarkozy promised gender
parity, something he never achieved. At the end of his mandate,
women represented 29 percent of the cabinet. Still, in the early
days of his presidency he assigned them to powerful portfolios
such as finance, defense and the interior. Sarkozy named
 Christine Lagarde , currently the head of the  International
Monetary Fund , his finance minister, Michele Alliot-Marie at
various times the minister for interior affairs, justice and
defense and Valerie Pecresse the budget minister.  Hollande’s government, unveiled May 16, relegates women to
softer matters. High-profile ministries of finance, education,
defense, foreign affairs and the interior are held by men.  ‘Not Duped’  “The parity government is a great move forward, but we are
not duped,” said La Barbe’s Beranger. “Women are not fully on
par for positions. No defense, no interior affairs. That may
improve with time, we’ll see.”  In the Hollande government, women hold portfolios including
justice, health, social affairs, housing, energy, environment,
culture, higher education,  women’s rights , state reform, civil
service, sports, youth, the elderly, commerce, tourism, the
handicapped and overseas territories.  “Women of this government have been appointed to fields in
which they were competent and that’s its success,” Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, the 34-year-old government spokeswoman and
Minister for Women’s Rights, said in an interview. “I think the
balance is rather well-respected.”  Hollande reopened the Ministry for Women’s Rights, the
first portfolio of its kind since 1986. His two senior-level
female appointees are Justice Minister  Christiane Taubira  and
Health and Social Affairs Minister Marisol Touraine.  Competent Women  He named a woman to advise him on African matters, a first
in French presidential history. He also chose  Sandrine Duchene ,
a former macro-economist at the national statistics institute
INSEE, to be among his economic advisors.  “This is not false parity; the women chosen are very
competent,” Beranger said.  Hollande had invited the wrath of women’s organizations
when he said during the presidential campaign that while “I
would, of course, like a government with 50 percent women and 50
percent men,” parity doesn’t “mean that they will have the
same responsibilities.”  The gender-parity promise may be hard to hold up after
Hollande’s prime minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said May 16 that
ministers running in the June legislative elections would have
to quit if they are defeated. Six women are currently running
for seats in the lower house of parliament, including Culture
Minister  Aurelie Filippetti .  Parliament Access  The June vote will elect 577 members of the National
Assembly. Between 2007 and the present, women held 18.9 percent
of the seats in the body, a  smaller proportion  than Andorra’s 50
percent and 36 percent in  Spain , putting  France  at the 19th rank
for gender parity in Parliament in Europe’s 27-member Union.  Only 40 percent of the 6,591 candidates for this year’s
elections are women, making gender parity impossible in the red-
velvet-upholstered  Palais Bourbon , which houses the National
Assembly on the Left Bank of the Seine river in Paris.  Hollande’s  Socialist Party , which has teamed up with the
environmentalists’ Green party for the legislative elections, is
putting up an equal number of women and men candidates.
Sarkozy’s  Union for a Popular Movement  (UMP), headed by Jean- Francois Cope, has fewer than 30 percent, the worst record of
any party, even behind the anti-euro National Front.  Parties not respecting the French law of gender parity face
penalties. In 2007, the UMP had only 26 percent of women
candidates and forfeited 4 million euros ($5.01 million) in
state subsidies. The Socialist Party had 45.2 percent of women
and gave up 500,000 euros.  Party Parity  “Cope’s position for the legislative election is just
unacceptable,” said La Barbe’s Beranger. “The UMP is not
abiding by the law. It prefers paying a 4 million-euro fine to
giving women the seats they deserve.”  Meanwhile,  Segolene Royal , Hollande’s former companion and
the mother of their four children, is running to be the leader
of the National Assembly. If she wins, she would be the first
women to hold the position. It would put her in France’s fourth
most-powerful political office, behind the president, the prime
minister and the leader of the Senate.  Hollande acknowledged during the campaign that France had
to do more to empower women, including narrowing the country’s
wage gap. He said he would enforce existing gender-parity
legislation, including a 2001 law on professional equality.  He pledged  to cancel state subsidies to political parties
that don’t respect parity, going further than the fines imposed
today. He also said companies failing to comply with wage-
equality laws within a year will lose tax credits.  “We don’t need more laws, we have everything we need,”
Hollande told a group of women invited to his campaign
headquarters in March. “What we need is to obey them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  