-- Hong Kong Short Selling of Stocks Surges to 13-Year High
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-05-24T08:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/hong-kong-short-selling-of-stocks-surges-to-13-year-high.html
Short-selling of stocks in  Hong Kong 
surged yesterday to the highest level since 1999 amid concern
Europe’s debt crisis will escalate.  The ratio of total  short selling  by value on Hong Kong’s
mainboard versus the shares traded reached almost 1-to-7
yesterday, the highest level since Feb. 25, 1999, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
declined 0.6 percent today.  “The bears are dominating the market,” said  Alex Wong ,
asset-management director at Ample Capital Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“We will probably see some rebound toward the end of this month.
The U.S. is heading into a long weekend and during the weekend
there will probably be some news coming out from Europe, so
people will probably cover their positions.”  U.S. markets will be closed on May 28 for a holiday.
European leaders, meeting in Brussels today to find ways to
contain the region’s debt crisis, clashed over joint debt sales
as they called on  Greece  to stick with the budget cuts needed to
stay in the euro. An inconclusive May 6 ballot in Greece raised
speculation it will scuttle austerity measures imposed upon the
nation after two bailouts and will have to leave the single-
currency bloc. New elections are due on June 17.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index slid 0.4 percent to 18,512,
while the gauge’s  volatility index  rose 2.7 percent to 29.34,
indicating traders expect a swing of about 8.4 percent in the
benchmark index during the next 30 days.  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. (2777)  and China Shipping Container
Lines Co. were the most-shorted stocks in Hong Kong relative to
their shares outstanding, according to  Data Explorers , a London-
based research firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  