-- Monti Says Germany Can Be Persuaded on Euro Bonds
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2012-05-24T23:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/monti-says-majority-of-leaders-at-eu-summit-backed-euro-bonds.html
A majority of European Union leaders
at a Brussels summit this week backed joint euro-area bonds, and
Italy can help persuade Germany to support Europe’s “common
good” as well, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said.  “Europe can have euro bonds soon,” Monti said in an
interview on Italian television station La7 yesterday. Germany
has an interest in ensuring no country leaves the euro, while
 Greece  will probably remain in the 17-nation currency region
even as “anything can happen,” he said in the interview.  Monti’s account of the meeting contrasted with that of
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who told
reporters in Brussels that joint debt sales “didn’t find much
support,” particularly in the German-speaking area, while the
French-speaking area was more enthusiastic.  Monti spoke after the summit of the EU’s 27 leaders ended
early yesterday with an exhortation to Greek voters to elect a
pro-austerity government on June 17 that makes the budget cuts
needed to keep the financially ravaged country in the euro.  “If  Italy  one day left the euro and reacquired its own
autonomous currency, with interest-rate freedom, and the new
lira was devalued, it would be a huge problem for Germany’s
exports,” Monti said. “And it would also be a major problem
for Italy.”  U.S. stocks ended the session higher after Monti’s remarks,
while the euro slipped to an almost two-year low. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index added 0.1 percent to 1,320.68 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  yesterday after slipping as much as 0.6 percent. The euro
fell 0.4 percent to $1.2535 at 3:54 p.m. New York time after
touching $1.2516, the weakest since July 6, 2010.  ‘In Germany’s Interest’  “A united  Europe  is in Germany’s interest,” Monti said.
“We’ll have euro bonds if the euro area, and therefore Germany,
will want them.”  Greece’s next government must live up to its bailout
pledges as easing the terms would create a moral-hazard risk,
the Italian leader also said in the interview.  “Clearly, if Europe says that we’ll ease the terms, then
it’s a gift to the most extreme political forces and penalizes
the biggest parties,” Monti said. “Then others such as
Portugal would expect the same thing.”  Italy’s economy has grown less than half the euro-area
average for more than a decade. Italians, mired in their fourth
recession since 2001, “may wonder where the benefits of the
euro are,” Monti said, though “they are probably not nostalgic
for the lira.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  