-- OPEC to Curb Shipments as Asian Demand Falls, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-05-24T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/opec-to-curb-shipments-as-asian-demand-falls-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will reduce shipments by 1 percent this
month as Asian refiners complete seasonal maintenance, according
to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  OPEC will export 23.96 million barrels a day in the four
weeks to June 9, compared with 24.2 million in the period to May
12, the researcher said today in an e-mailed report. Shipments
have dropped since April 21, when they reached their highest
level since the uprising against former Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  began in February last year, according to the company.
The data exclude Angola and Ecuador, two of OPEC’s 12 members.  “Eastbound sailings are down very sharply as we come to
the end of  Asia ’s peak maintenance period,” Roy Mason, the
company’s founder, said by telephone from Halifax,  England .
“Stocks are building in  China , in part to cover increased
refinery capacity but also precautionary stocks to cover for any
issue over Iran.”  OPEC’s second-largest producer after Saudi Arabia, Iran
faces economic sanctions over its nuclear program. The European
Union plans to embargo Iranian crude from July 1, exacerbating
concern about possible shortfalls in global supply. OPEC pumped
31.41 million barrels a day in April, with output from  Iran 
slipping by 110,000 barrels a day from March to 3.28 million
barrels, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Middle East’s Decline  Exports from the  Middle East , including non-OPEC members
Oman and Yemen, will decline 1.2 percent to 17.75 million
barrels a day in the four-week period, according to Oil
Movements.  Crude on board tankers will average 484.5 million barrels,
down 4.2 percent from the month to May 12, the researcher said.
Oil Movements calculates shipments by tallying tanker-rental
agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on board ships used
as floating storage.  “There has been a big switch from east to west which
follows the track of refinery maintenance,” Mason said. “The
fall in eastbound sailings was only slightly larger than the
rise in westbound sailings. That makes sense, as loadings now
would be targeting July, when European refiners will look to
maximize runs.”  OPEC, which pumps 40 percent of the world’s oil, comprises
Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria,
Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  