-- Orders for U.S. Durable Goods Probably Increased in April
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-probably-increased-in-april.html
Orders for  durable goods  probably
climbed in April, a sign manufacturing will keep contributing to
the U.S. expansion, economists said before a report today.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
increased 0.2 percent after falling 3.9 percent the prior month,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Orders excluding transportation equipment, which
is often volatile, may have advanced 0.8 percent.  A rebound in auto making as growing confidence in the
economy prompts Americans to replace older models may ripple
through manufacturing, keeping assembly lines busy this quarter.
At the same time, slowdowns in  Europe  and parts of  Asia  may
restrain demand, leaving factories more dependent on U.S.
customers to sustain gains.  “Manufacturing right now is at a point where it’s keeping
up with consumer and business demand,” said  Russell Price , a
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit . “Most
of the demand is here domestically. New orders are just starting
to moderate from Europe.”  The Commerce Department’s durable goods report is scheduled
to be released at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates of the 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged from a decline of 2.8
percent to a 4.2 percent gain.  A drop in airplane bookings probably restrained the
increase in total demand, economists said. Boeing Co., the
largest U.S. aircraft maker, said it received orders for four
planes last month, down from 53 in March.  Business Investment  Orders for non-military capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for  business investment  in items such as computers,
engines and communications gear, advanced 0.8 percent after a
3.6 percent drop the previous month, according to the median
forecast.  Auto manufacturing has been bolstering factory growth.
During the past four months, cars have sold at the fastest pace
in four years, according to industry data.  Regional manufacturing gauges for this month have been
mixed. A report from the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  showed
factories in the region expanded at a faster pace in May, while
a similar measure for the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
showed manufacturing shrank for the first time since September.  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  is among manufacturers seeing an
improvement in demand in some areas. The largest producer of
chipmaking equipment said on May 17 that third-quarter sales may
exceed some analysts’ estimates as customers spend to increase
output of smartphone components.  ‘Strong’ Market  “The market for smartphones and tablets is very strong,”
Chief Executive Officer Mike Splinter said in a phone interview.
“We’re seeing constraints in the chip-building parts of the
supply chain.”  Shares of machinery makers have kept pace with the broader
stock market this year. The Standard & Poor’s Machinery
Supercomposite Index, which includes companies like Caterpillar
Inc. and Cummins Inc., has climbed 6 percent, compared with a
4.9 percent increase for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  A separate report today may show 370,000 Americans filed
for jobless benefits for a third straight week, a sign of
stability in the labor market, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey ahead of Labor Department figures due at
8:30 a.m. in Washington.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  