-- More Than Half Autistic Kids Prescribed Mood Medicines
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/more-than-half-autistic-kids-prescribed-mood-medicines.html
More than half of school-age 
children with autism in the U.S. take mood-altering drugs 
as doctors increasingly target the broad range of 
psychiatric symptoms tied to the ailment, a report found.  The survey, the first of its kind by the  National 
Institute of Mental Health , found that 56 percent of 
those age 6 to 17 with autism, were on one or more drugs 
normally given for disorders such as anxiety, depression, 
psychosis or hyperactivity.   The condition, considered rare before 1980, affects 
about 1 in 88 U.S. children, according to the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention. The study found about a 
third of children received stimulants, a quarter anti-
anxiety or mood-stabilizers and 20 percent anti-depressants. 
Others got sleep, anti-psychotic or anti-seizure drugs.  “Part of what you’re seeing in these numbers is the fact
that autism is frequently accompanied by other disorders,” said
Joseph Horrigan, head of medical research for  Autism Speaks , an
advocacy group based in  New York . “There has been a relative
under-appreciation of psychiatric co-morbidity in individuals,
especially younger individuals with autism spectrum disorders.”  The range of medications prescribed to autistic children
may also reflect “absence of clear practice guidelines for
psychotropic medication use in children with ASD,” the
researchers wrote in the report.   There is no known cause or cure for autism, and there are
no drugs on the market to treat the symptoms or causes of the
disorder.  Impaired Development  Children with autism have impaired social, communication
and behavioral development that is usually identified by age 3.
The disorder is often accompanied by abnormal cognitive
functioning and learning ability. As a result, 9 of 10 children
with autism spectrum disorder use one or more services to meet
developmental needs, according to the report.  “This is very good that physicians are recognizing these
additional problems that kids with autism can have,” said Randi
Hagerman, medical director of  University of California , Davis’s
 Medical Investigation of Neurodevelopmental Disorders Institute ,
in a telephone interview. “The 50 percent who are on treatment
for anxiety, or sleep disorders, or ADHD, is probably not high
enough.”  Hagerman said these medicines can make other behavioral
treatments more effective. More than 91 percent of the 1,420
students in the survey used one or more health-care services,
such as speech or occupational therapy. Alleviating anxiety,
hyperactivity, or increasing sleep can lessen the effects of
autism, she said.  Researchers didn’t probe into what indications the children
were taking the medications for, Lisa Colpe, the lead author of
the study, said in an interview.  An earlier  survey  in 2010 by advocacy group Autism Speaks
showed 27 percent of children enrolled in their network registry
were on psychotropic medications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  