-- Morgan Stanley’s Gorman Said to Join Facebook Price Call
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-05-24T20:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/morgan-stanley-s-gorman-said-to-join-facebook-call-on-ipo-price.html
As  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Morgan Stanley
executives gathered on a call May 17 to arrange terms for the
social-networking company’s  initial public offering , they faced
a trade-off: set the IPO price low and give up enough money to
let investors profit from a day-one pop -- or push the price
high to help the company reap as much as possible from the sale.  On the conference call, joined by Morgan Stanley Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman  and Facebook Chief Financial
Officer David Ebersman, the company and its lead bankers
discussed an IPO price range of $36 to $41 a share, people with
knowledge of the matter said. Ebersman’s aim was to maximize the
company’s IPO proceeds and to cap the first-day increase at 10
percent, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks were private.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which
co-led the IPO, were also on the call, as were  Michael Grimes ,
global co-head of Morgan Stanley’s technology investment banking
group, and Dan Simkowitz, chairman of its global capital markets
group, the people said. Absent was Facebook CEO  Mark Zuckerberg .  JPMorgan bankers indicated that they had significant client
demand at a price above $38, one person said. The group quickly
reached consensus at $38 and discussions were not drawn out, the
people said.  Gorman Oversight  Gorman joined the call to provide oversight, one of the
people said. The involvement of an investment bank’s CEO in IPO
pricing discussions is unusual, and it reflects the importance
that  Morgan Stanley (MS)  ascribed to its role as lead underwriter on
the largest-ever technology IPO. The New York-based bank stands
to generate about $67 million in fees for its role as the first
among 33 banks handling Facebook’s IPO.  The bank made about $100 million on behalf of the
underwriters by buying the stock in the open market to stabilize
the price, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.
Morgan Stanley will use some of the gains to reimburse clients
who lost money because of glitches in trade execution, the
person said.  Some investors and analysts later said the company
misjudged demand and set the price too high, as evidenced by a
16 percent  decline  in the share price through yesterday.
Regulators raised concerns about the IPO and buyers of the stock
have sued Facebook, underwriters and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., the
stock market on which the shares are listed.  Cut Forecasts  Morgan Stanley may face regulatory review over claims an
analyst shared negative news about Facebook with institutional
investors before the IPO,  Richard Ketchum , chairman and CEO of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, said this week.  Morgan Stanley analysts reduced their 2012 Facebook profit
projection to 48 cents a share from 51 cents days before the
bank boosted the price range on the IPO, according to people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the process is private.  William F. Galvin, Massachusetts’ secretary of the
commonwealth, said separately that his securities division
subpoenaed Morgan Stanley to learn more about talks between
 Scott Devitt , the research analyst, and the firm’s institutional
investors about Facebook’s revenue.  Facebook increased the number of shares being sold in the
IPO by 25 percent last week to 421.2 million and raised its
asking price to a range of $34 to $38 from $28 to $35. The stock
rose 3.2 percent to $33.03 at the close in  New York  today.  Larry Yu, a spokesman for Menlo Park, California-based
 Facebook , declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  