-- Mortgage Rates for 30-Year U.S. Loans Fall to a Record-Low 3.78%
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   M a u r u s   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-05-24T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/mortgage-rates-for-30-year-u-s-loans-fall-to-a-record-low-3-78-.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  for 30-year loans
fell to a record low for a fourth straight week, reducing
borrowing costs as a housing recovery takes hold.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to
3.78 percent in the week ended today from 3.79 percent,  Freddie
Mac  said in a statement. It was the lowest in the McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage-finance company’s data dating to 1971.
The average 15-year rate held at 3.04 percent, also a record.  Buyers are returning to the real estate market as record-
low mortgage rates, decreased prices and  job  gains combine to
help lift demand. Purchases of  new U.S. homes  climbed 3.3
percent in April from the prior month, the Commerce Department
said yesterday. Sales of  previously owned  houses had their first
increase in three months, rising 3.4 percent from March, data
from the National Association of Realtors show.  “Low mortgage rates are playing an increasingly important
support for the housing market,” said  Keith Gumbinger , vice
president of HSH.com, a mortgage-information website based in
Pompton Plains,  New Jersey .  Low borrowing costs are encouraging homeowners to reduce
their monthly payments. The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index
of  refinancing  applications gained 5.6 percent in the week ended
May 18, while the gauge of  purchases  declined 3 percent, the
Washington-based group said yesterday.  U.S. home prices jumped 2.7 percent in March from a year
earlier and 1.8 percent from the previous month, the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency  said yesterday. The  gain  from February
was the biggest in at least two decades and exceeded the
estimates of all 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Maurus in  New York  at 
 cmaurus@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  