-- Oslo Bourse Penalizes Unexecuted Orders From Automated Trading
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-05-24T13:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/oslo-bourse-penalizes-unexecuted-orders-from-automated-trading.html
Oslo’s stock exchange will introduce
a fee designed to limit computer-generated orders after equity
strategies based on mathematical models boosted the number of
withdrawn trades and clouded market transparency.  The fee, which will be enforced from Sept. 1, will apply to
any order exceeding 70 for each executed trade and will mainly
target “orders which are canceled or changed within a second,
without contributing to improving pricing or volumes,” Oslo
Boers ASA said in a statement today. The exchange will charge
0.05 krone ($0.01) for every unexecuted order exceeding the 1:70
ratio.  Trading based on mathematical models, known as algorithmic
and high-frequency trading, has come under scrutiny after a May
2010 crash that briefly erased $862 billion from the value of
U.S. shares. Traders and other professional investors withdrew
bids as the selloff worsened, according to a September 2010
report from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “There are no initial costs associated with issuing a
disproportionately large number of orders, while it adds
indirect costs, which all of the market has to cover,” Bente A. Landsnes, chief executive officer of the Oslo exchange, said in
the statement. As the new fee will limit unexecuted orders “the
market will become more efficient to the benefit of all
agents.”  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , which manages 75 percent of all
Nordic  stock trading , presented a similar move in September
2011. The exchange, which runs the Copenhagen, Helsinki,
Reykjavik and Stockholm bourses, introduced a 1:250 trade-to-
order ratio fee to protect investors against what it called
malfunctions in the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  