-- Total Asks French Top Court to Reverse 1999 Oil-Spill Ruling
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-24T13:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/total-asks-french-top-court-to-reverse-1999-oil-spill-ruling.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil
company, challenged a verdict that it’s criminally guilty in a
1999 oil tanker accident that spilled fuel along the French
coast, arguing the law was wrongly applied.  Total, the ship certification company and individuals
condemned by lower courts in the disaster asked France’s highest
appeals court to overturn their convictions, arguing  French law
doesn’t comply with international maritime accords.  Didier Boccon-Gibod, an independent prosecutor for the
court, told the court today that overturning the ruling “is the
only legally possible outcome” because as this concerned a
foreign ship outside French territorial waters, “this case
raises unresolvable problems.”  The Erika, as the Maltese ship was called, leaked about
20,000 tons of fuel into the sea after the vessel sank off the
coast of northwest  France  in a storm in December 1999. The 24-
year-old tanker, carrying 30,000 tons of fuel, broke up in a
storm with waves as high as 14 meters. While an Italian ship-
safety inspector said the Erika was seaworthy, it was later
found to have a rusted hull. The spill killed thousands of birds
and polluted 400 kilometers (250 miles) of coastline.  Total was convicted of criminal negligence and fined
375,000 euros ($472,725) in 2008. It spent 200 million euros for
a clean-up following the disaster and has paid 171 million euros
to affected communities and the French government under a
January 2008 verdict and doesn’t seek to recover those damages
despite the decision by the Paris appeals court that it wasn’t
liable for them, their lawyer, Thomas Lyon-Caen, told the court.  ‘Crime of Negligence’  “What’s at stake in this hearing isn’t the
indemnification,” Lyon-Caen said today. “It’s the crime of
negligence,” he said, arguing that aside from the issue of
whether French law could apply here, Total wasn’t legally
obliged to vet the ship.  Patrick Spinosi, a lawyer representing areas affected by
the spill, told the court it had an “especially rich”
opportunity to impose its own interpretation of the law.
Invalidating the earlier rulings was not the only option, he
said, as the court could take advantage of “the lack of any
jurisprudence” to rule as it thinks the law ought to apply here
for the communities where the coastline was damaged.  The environmental harm was “tragic” but not a matter for
French criminal law, said Boccon-Gibod, the court’s advocate
general. “The law remains the law” and the court’s “only
requirement is to apply the law.”  The court will rule on Sept. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  