-- HP Credit-Default Swaps Decline After Profit Surpasses Estimates
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-24T21:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/hp-credit-default-swaps-decline-by-most-since-october-on-profits.html
The cost to protect against losses on
the debt of  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  dropped by the most since
October as the company reported a quarterly profit that beat
estimates, increasing hopes of a turnaround.  Contracts on  Palo Alto , California-based HP fell 12 basis
points to a mid-price of 195.5 basis points as of 3:11 p.m. in
New York, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. That’s the biggest drop since the contracts tightened by
20.6 basis points on Oct. 27.  Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  is cutting jobs and
streamlining businesses as the company battles slower demand for
printers, services and data-center equipment. Its credit grade
was cut by each of the three biggest ratings firms in the last
12 months as its long-term debt almost doubled in the past two
years. Profit before some costs in the second quarter was 98
cents a share, the company said in a statement yesterday. That
compared with analysts’ 91-cent average estimate.  “They reiterated their commitment to avoiding acquisitions
and limit share repurchases,” said Michael Holt, an analyst at
Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  “Talk is cheap so people relax a
little bit when they see the evidence.”  Credit Rating  The company’s $1.2 billion of 6 percent notes maturing in
September 2041 rose 2.9 cents to 106.5 cents on the dollar at
3:24 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The bonds yield 5.55 percent.  HP’s credit rating was reduced within the last year to A3
by Moody’s Investors Service, to A by  Fitch Ratings  and to BBB+
by  Standard & Poor’s . The swaps on the company have more than
doubled from 94.5 basis points in March.  The computer services-provider announced plans to cut
approximately 27,000 jobs, generating savings of as much as $3.5
billion starting in 2014, Whitman said in a call with investors.
HP had $25.8 billion of long-term debt as of April 30, according
to a regulatory filing yesterday.  “It’s a positive for the long-term health of the business
and that’s good for the bondholders,” Holt said.  A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk declined as Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  told a television station that  Greece 
is likely to stay in the euro.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, fell 0.8 basis point to a mid-price of 117.4
basis points at 4:59 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps gauge typically decreases as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  