-- Pakistan May Set Up Small-Company Exchange, SEC Chief Says
-- B y   N a w e e n   A .   M a n g i   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-05-24T05:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/pakistan-may-set-up-small-company-exchange-sec-chief-says-2-.html
Pakistan may set up a  stock exchange 
for small companies to raise capital as part of government plans
to provide more financing channels for  Asia ’s fifth-smallest
economy and as initial public offerings dry up.  The Securities & Exchange Commission of Pakistan may form
the exchange or create a board within the bourse,  Muhammad Ali ,
chairman of the regulator, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
office in Karachi yesterday. There haven’t been any listings on
the Karachi Stock Exchange this year after four companies went
public in 2011, according to the exchange’s  website .  “So much creativity dies in this country without seeing
the light of day because we can’t provide vehicles for financial
capital,” said Ali, 43. “Unless this happens we won’t achieve
corporatization, documentation of the economy or tax
collection.”  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s government is seeking
to get more revenue from an underground economy that employs
more than three quarters of the nation’s 54 million workers and
is worth as much as 50 percent of the $200 billion official
gross domestic product. There are 60,000 registered companies
and 3 million small- and medium-sized sole proprietors and
partnerships, most of which are part of the underground economy.  The Karachi Stock Exchange 100  Index (KSE100)  has surged 24 percent
this year after the government eased rules on a capital-gains
tax and demand for energy and building materials bolstered
company earnings. The measure was little changed at 14,019.56 at
10:03 a.m. local time.  Huge Potential  The stocks gauge, which slid 5.6 percent in 2011, is
 trading  at 6.9 times estimated earnings, the lowest valuation in
Asia, reflecting the country’s struggles to cope with militant
attacks and political instability. The BSE India Sensitive Index
trades at 12.4 times forward profit after gaining 3.1 percent
this year.  “A platform for small businesses will allow investors to
tap the potential of growing companies,” Farid Khan, who
manages 65 billion rupees ($706 million) in stocks and bonds as
chief executive of ABL Asset Management Co. in Karachi, said by
telephone yesterday. “However, only selective institutions
should be allowed to invest in these companies because these are
higher risk concerns.”  Companies may be segregated into categories with rules
allowing only larger investors to trade in riskier stocks,  said
Ali, who joined the agency in December 2010.  His commission has recommended changes in tax rates and
also plans to amend the company law by next year to introduce
different reporting requirements for smaller businesses that
list on the exchange. There are 591 companies listed  companies .  Bigger Tax Net  The SEC has also proposed that the 35 percent corporate tax
rate be reduced and the 25 percent levy paid by unlisted
businesses be raised to encourage public share offerings.  “If we have this fiscal change and a new law that
differentiates between reporting requirements based on the size
of the company, businesses will be corporatized in the country
and that’s the way forward to document the economy and broaden
the tax net,” said Ali, a former broker who led Indosuez W.I.
Carr Securities in Karachi for six years.  Pakistan ’s ratio of tax to gross domestic product was 8.6
percent in June, one of the world’s lowest, according to Macro-
economic Insights in Islamabad. Only 25 percent of the economy
is taxed if the undocumented sector is taken into account, Sakib Sherani, the chief executive officer of the economic research
company, said by e-mail last month.  The budget gap, which was 6.3 percent of GDP last year, may
expand to 7 percent in the year ending in June, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  Commodity Exchanges  The regulator also plans to offer licenses to set up more
commodities exchanges in the country by next year, Ali said. The
Pakistan Mercantile Exchange Ltd. was set up in 2007 in Karachi
and offers futures trading in commodities including gold, oil,
and sugar.  “We need more  commodities markets  because being an
agriculture economy there is demand so that farmers can hedge
their positions,” Ali said. “We would like to see two more
exchanges so that they all compete with each other and then over
a five or 10 year period only one remains.”  Agriculture makes up 21 percent of Pakistan’s GDP and
employs 45 percent of the country’s workforce, according to the
government statistics. Pakistan is the sixth most populous
country in the world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naween A. Mangi in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Nmangi1@bloomberg.net 
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  