-- Pension Debt Gains as Yield Converges With New Laws: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/pension-debt-gains-as-yield-converges-with-new-laws-muni-credit.html
Pension bonds are joining the biggest
rally in U.S. taxable municipal debt since 2008 as states from
 Kansas  to South Carolina move to curb retirement obligations
after four straight years of falling funding ratios.  Kansas plans to tap casino revenue for retirement plans,
while Michigan lawmakers debate reducing pensions for new
teachers. States and cities are shifting more retirement costs
to workers to counter the widest gap between pension liabilities
and assets since at least 1994.  Illinois, issuer of the two biggest pension bonds since
2003, is benefiting as investors buy the taxable municipal
securities for yields more than two percentage points above
federal debt. The  yield penalty  on the state’s retirement bonds
due in five years has shrunk as much as 11 percent since their
2011 sale. At the same time, the  extra yield  on 10-year taxable
munis over tax-exempts is close to the lowest since 2008.  The funding gap “is one of the biggest vulnerabilities in
the muni market, and therefore to make headway in reducing this
liability number will substantially help long-term  credit
quality ,”  Richard Ciccarone , managing director at McDonnell
Investment Management LLC in  Oak Brook , Illinois, said in an
interview. The company handles $8 billion in munis.  Localities are curbing the growing cost of pensions to help
balance spending and revenue as their fiscal outlook rebounds
from the 18-month recession that ended in 2009. The debt is
taxable because the borrower can invest the proceeds for a
profit as they use the money to fund retirement plans.  Ratings Hit  For some issuers, bond ratings are at stake.  New Jersey 
last year had its grade lowered by the three major rating
companies, which cited pension costs.  Standard & Poor’s  in April
 said it may cut  Illinois ’s rating from A+, fifth highest, by
more than one level without progress on its budget and
“significant” retirement liabilities.  Illinois’s 45.4 percent 2010 funding level was the weakest
among U.S. states, according to a Bloomberg Rankings analysis.  The pension funding ratio for states and cities fell to 75
percent last year from 76 percent in 2010, according to a Center
for Retirement Research at Boston College  analysis  released this
month. It’s the lowest level since at least 1994.  To address the gap, 18 states have passed laws this year
regarding pension funding and 25 are working on such measures,
according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.  ‘Different Approaches’  “We’ve seen a lot of different approaches, but as long as
the approaches are taken, investors feel better about the
bonds,” said  Peter Hayes , a managing director at New York-based
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which oversees about $105 billion of municipals.  Ten-year taxable munis rated AA, third-highest, yield about
 1.23 percentage points  above top-grade tax-exempts. The
difference is close to a three-year low touched in March, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The taxable bonds are following a rally in federal debt,
Hayes said. Investors seeking shelter from  Europe ’s debt crisis
pushed 10-year U.S. federal yields as low as 1.69 percent last
week, within 0.01 percentage point of a record.  Investors demanded about 2.3 percentage points above
Treasuries as of May 22 to buy five-year Illinois pension bonds,
about 0.2 point less than when the state sold the debt. The $3.7
billion February 2011 pension issue was the biggest sale of
retirement securities since Illinois’s $10 billion deal in 2003,
according to Bloomberg data.  To help meet rising obligations, issuers from  California  to
Florida sold $4.96 billion of pension bonds in 2011, the most 
since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Casino Owner  The only U.S. state that owns casinos, Kansas will be the
first to dedicate gambling receipts to  retirement plans , said
 Keith Brainard , research director for the National Association
of State Retirement Administrators.  Kansas will make other changes, such as creating a system
for newly hired workers that doesn’t guarantee specific
benefits. The state in 2010 had 64 percent of assets to cover
projected retirement obligations, down from 71 percent in 2008,
according to Bloomberg Rankings data.  Michigan’s Senate last week passed a measure that would
place new public school employees in a 401(k)-style plan rather
than a defined-benefit pension. House members are working on the
bill. South Carolina lawmakers are considering boosting annual
employee contributions.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  in March signed legislation
raising the  retirement age  and employee contributions for new
workers.  “There is definitely a sea change in terms of the
intensity of the political dialogue going on now with pensions
compared to the past,” Ciccarone said.  Following are descriptions of coming sales:  ALASKA HOUSING FINANCE CORPORATION will sell as soon as
today $196 million of revenue bonds to refund debt and buy
 mortgage loans , according to sale documents. The deal includes
$50 million of federally taxable variable-rate bonds. S&P rates
the bonds AA+, second-highest. (Added May 24)  VIRGINIA TRANSPORTATION BOARD plans to borrow $600 million
of revenue debt as soon as this month via competitive bid.
Proceeds will help finance capital projects, according to
documents from the board’s April 18 meeting. (Updated May 24)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  