-- Peru Yields Rise to Five-Week High as Europe Crisis Curbs Demand
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-05-24T21:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/peru-yields-rise-to-five-week-high-as-europe-crisis-curbs-demand.html
Peruvian bonds fell, pushing up
yields to a five-week high, as concern  Europe ’s economic
slowdown may worsen curbed demand for higher-yielding, emerging-
market debt.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 rose eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 5.36 percent, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest since April 16. The
price fell 0.56 centimo to 116.21 centimos per sol.  European manufacturing and services output dropped in May,
German business confidence declined and Britain’s first-quarter
contraction was deeper than previously estimated as the region’s
economic slump worsened. European leaders meeting in Brussels
yesterday called on Greece to stick with the budget cuts needed
to stay in the euro area and offered no immediate relief for
recession-wracked  Spain .  “Greece is what everyone is watching,” said Bret Rosen, a
Latin America strategist at Standard Chartered Bank in  New York .
“As long as people are wondering about a potential Greek
departure from the euro, there’ll be a challenging backdrop for
EM and Latam markets.”  Peru’s government has room to mitigate a bigger external
crisis because of its low debt and high foreign reserves,
Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said at an event in Lima today.
The Andean nation is among the countries best able to withstand
any external shocks that curb export demand, he said.  The sol weakened 0.2 percent to 2.6980 per  U.S. dollar  at
today’s close, from 2.6925 yesterday.  The central bank sold 180 million soles ($67 million) in
dollar-linked certificates of deposits maturing in two months,
it said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  