-- Philadelphia Facing $1.1 Billion Gap May Close Schools
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/philadelphia-facing-1-1-billion-gap-may-close-schools.html
On a weekday morning at the  Albert M.
Greenfield School  in Philadelphia, 21 first-graders painted
their drawings of fish, glued the shapes on colored paper and
affixed ribbons and buttons onto the bright creatures.  “That’s some nice texture,” said Tricia Benedetto as she
guided the pupils, who call her “Miss Trish.” She is among
dozens of parents who volunteer at the school after budget cuts
led to the loss of its art instructor this year.  The school parents’ association raised at least $60,000 for
the effort, Benedetto said. Its creativity will again be tested,
as overseers of the  district , the eighth-largest in the U.S. by
enrollment, may close a quarter of its 249 schools by 2017 under
an overhaul plan to save money. The proposal indicates a third
of the district’s building space isn’t being used this year.  “Until things get more concrete, I try not to worry all
the time,” said Michelina Hobbie, 25, the teacher for this
class who is in her third year in the district. “There is a lot
of speculation.”  “The show must go on,” Hobbie said. “The kids still need
teachers.”  The  School Reform Commission , a five-member board appointed
by the mayor and Pennsylvania’s governor to run the district,
plans to vote May 31 on a $2.5 billion budget. It forecasts a
$218 million fiscal 2013 deficit with the cumulative gap rising
to $1.1 billion through 2017, without changes, according to the
proposed turnaround blueprint that calls for school closings.  Workers Protest  The plan spurred a union rally that began in front of  City
Hall  and ended with a march to the district’s headquarters
yesterday, shutting down streets and leading to 14 arrests,
according to police.  “Everything falls on the working class,” said James
Archie, 44, who held a large cut-out of a black coffin inscribed
with “public education” at the rally. The city resident and
father of three said he expects to lose his $48,000-a-year job
as a school carpenter in September after 20 years of service.  As evidence of the need for change, in terms of
performance, district officials point to test scores showing
that about 58 percent third through 11th grade students are
proficient in math, compared with 77 percent statewide. Reading
scores also lag behind the state, at 52 percent proficient
compared with 74 percent of  Pennsylvania  children.  “When you look at how the academics of our schools are
rated overall with other large, urban school districts, we’re
doing very poorly,” said Fernando Gallard, a schools spokesman.  Continuing Debate  The blueprint is subject to debate through the rest of the
calendar year, including in public meetings. The commission
estimates 207,700 students will enter classrooms in September,
little changed over the past decade. Yet a shift is expected
that could mean 40 percent of pupils will enroll in  charter
schools , which are district-funded, within five years, up from
25 percent now.  “The overall focus here is to provide better school
choice for all children, no matter what type of public school it
is,” Gallard said. “Charter schools are public schools, and
parents have been voting for more schools that are high-
achieving.”  Philadelphia’s finances have improved, leading to a credit
rating upgrade of one step last month by  Standard & Poor’s . The
fiscal straits of the school district, which is independently
supported by taxpayers, the state and federal government, pose a
challenge to that turnaround. The municipality and district are
“inextricably linked,” said Adam Weigold, a portfolio manager
at Boston-based Eaton Vance Corp., which owns city debt.  Improving City Finances  “Philadelphia has gotten its house in order over the past
couple years and is starting to finally stand on its feet,”
Weigold said. “Whereas the school district is still operating
at fairly big deficits and hasn’t improved in the same manner.”  If the school district raises taxes, Weigold said, the city
“loses some flexibility” in its own levy decisions. A quarter
of Philadelphia residents  live  in poverty, double the statewide
rate, according to U.S. Census Bureau figures.  Labor contracts and state laws limit potential cost cuts,
according to school officials. Debt service will take $261.2
million next year, about 10 percent of the  budget . The district
owes about $3 billion that is covered by a state program that
can divert aid to make payments and protect bondholders.  By closing 40 schools next year, the district may save
about $33 million annually by 2014. About 60 schools may be
shuttered within five years, Gallard said.  Mounting Anxiety  Those slated for closure haven’t been named, causing “a
lot of anxiety” among parents, said  Jerry Jordan , president of
the 15,000-member Philadelphia Federation of Teachers union. He
questioned the planned pace.  “Does 40 in one school year make sense?” Jordan asked.
“Will it cause blight in the neighborhoods?”  The turnaround plan also calls for decentralizing
operations, clustering schools into “achievement networks” to
be run by employees or nonprofit organizations, or a combination
of the two. Managers of each group would tailor specific goals
for their units, and be held accountable to results-oriented
contracts, according to the blueprint.  Benedetto, 41, the art volunteer whose son, Maxwell Kell,
7, attends Greenfield, said she’s concerned about equal
opportunity, depending on who runs a particular group of
schools. “I just wish the money could go more toward the
public-school system.”  Gailen Dougherty, who went to Greenfield and has two
children there now, agrees “something has to shift.” She
volunteers every weekday to watch the children during recess.  “I believe in it, and I pay for it,” she said about
public education, as she watched groups of first-graders at
play. “It’s our future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  