-- Putin Faces Chaos If Greek Turmoil Sparks Slump, Study Says
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-05-24T14:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/putin-faces-chaos-if-greek-euro-exit-triggers-new-recession-1-.html
Vladimir Putin  faces the risk of
Russia’s political stability being shaken if  Greece  leaves the
euro area, triggering a global crisis and sinking the price of
oil, according to the Center for Strategic Studies in Moscow.  There’s a more than 50 percent chance of a Greek exit,
which would lead to more countries pulling out of the currency
union, Mikhail Dmitriev, the research institute’s head, said in
an interview yesterday. Russia’s main risks are a worsening
 economy , which would swell anti-Putin sentiment, and increased
political repression, according to a  study  published today by
the  institute , which advises the government.  “If these trends continue, we will see the escalation of
political violence and repression on one hand, and the worst
economic crisis on the other,” said Dmitriev, a deputy economy
minister from 2000 to 2004. “This may lead to Putin losing
control and a chaotic political transformation.”  President Putin, 59, returned for a third Kremlin term this
month as tens of thousands demonstrated in  Russia ’s biggest
cities after disputed parliamentary elections in December. A
deteriorating global economy would hamstring the government’s
ability to deliver on social-spending pledges and would threaten
to wipe out capital that Russian investors and businesses moved
to Europe in search of safety, Dmitriev said.  ‘Atomic Explosion’  “There is large-scale capital flight from Russia, despite
the economic recovery,” Dmitriev said. “And this capital is
flying into the epicenter of the global financial crisis, which
is in Europe. That is actually the same as creating a  food
supply  in the center of an atomic explosion.”  In a worst-case scenario following a Greek exit from the
euro area, Russia’s economy would contract 2.1 percent with the
potential for $95 billion in capital leaving the country in a
year, Ksenia Yudaeva, chief economist at Moscow-based  OAO
Sberbank (SBER) , the country’s biggest lender, said by phone yesterday.  Economic output would shrink 1 percent in 2013 and the
country would post a budget deficit of 5.5 percent of gross
domestic product under the most pessimistic assumptions, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s chief economist in Moscow, Vladimir Osakovskiy, said in a research note yesterday. The ruble would
lose 10 percent against the dollar from today’s value, he said.  Russia is facing possible recession because of the events
surrounding Greece, said former Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin .
“It’s 50 percent likely we will get this blow from the world
economy,” he said today in Moscow at a presentation of the
institute’s report.  Energy Reliance  Russia, which relies on oil and gas exports for half of its
budget revenue and  Europe  as a market for more than 50 percent
of its exports, may suffer a worse recession than in 2009 if
energy prices plunge, according to Dmitriev.  Russia’s economy grew at an average annual rate of 7
percent during Putin’s presidency from 2000 to 2008 before
contracting almost 8 percent in 2009 after crude prices plunged
to $34 from $147 as the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in August 2008 sparked the worst global recession since
World War II.  The government reduced its projection for growth this year
to 3.4 percent, from 3.7 percent. GDP expanded 4.9 percent in
the first quarter from the same period last year.  Brent, the grade that underpins prices for Russia’s Urals
oil blend, may decline to $80 a barrel if Greece leaves the
currency union without triggering crises in other euro members
or as low as $60 if there is a “disorderly” breakup of the
euro region, according to a  Bank of America  Corp. report dated
May 17. Urals today traded at $103.95, the lowest since Dec. 15.  Workers, Pensioners, Military  After promising $153 billion in new spending on state
workers, pensioners and the military to ensure his re-election,
Putin is seeking to head off a widening deficit, with oil prices
more than $10 below the average price of $117 a barrel needed to
balance the budget this year. The government has said it will
increase taxes on  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  and independent gas producers from
2013-2015 to raise billions of dollars.  There is a “critical lack of trust” and “fatigue” with
Russia’s ruling elite across society, according to the
institute, which conducted surveys between March and May in a
dozen cities and towns across the country.  The government being unable to deliver on pledges for
social spending would trigger mass demonstrations across Russia,
according to the institute, whose board of trustees is headed by
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak.  ‘Loss of Control’  “The political crisis could quickly become acute if it’s
aggravated by a fresh economic crisis,” it said. “This is
highly likely to provoke a rapid loss of political control and
an accelerated change in the political system.”  The majority of respondents wants a large-scale replacement
of government officials at the federal, regional and local
levels, according to the study. That desire was illustrated by
the victory of opposition candidates in recent mayoral elections
in Yaroslavl, Togliatti, Taganrog and Chernogolovka, it said.  There is a “widespread negative” attitude toward  United
Russia , the ruling party, according to the report. While a
majority of respondents said they voted for Putin because of the
need for stability, they don’t want him to stay in power
indefinitely, it said.  ‘Difficult Situation’  Middle-class anger was also stoked by Putin’s decision to
push aside his protégé,  Dmitry Medvedev , to return to the
Kremlin after 12 years of rule, according to opinion polls at
the Moscow rallies. Medvedev, who served for four years as
president while Putin kept the reins of power as prime minister,
is now head of Putin’s Cabinet.  Putin warned Medvedev’s new Cabinet on May 21 that it must
tackle a “difficult situation” in the world’s largest energy
exporter because of global economic uncertainty.  “For Russia, it all comes down to two factors -- capital
outflows and  oil prices ,” Dmitriev said. “They come together
in a crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  