-- Qihoo CFO Says Short Sellers Target Stock on Co-Appointment
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-05-24T21:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/qihoo-cfo-says-short-sellers-target-stock-on-co-appointment-1-.html
Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU)  Chief
Financial Officer Alex Xu said in an e-mail to analysts that
short sellers are targeting the Chinese  software developer  after
the company named Jue Yao as co-CFO.  “I heard some short sellers are out there trying to make
the co-CFO appointment an issue,” Xu wrote in the e-mail sent
to analysts May 23. “This is totally nonsense.”  In a short sale, a trader borrows a stock and sells it,
hoping to profit from a decline by replacing it at a lower
price.  American depositary receipts of Qihoo lost 3.1 percent to a
seven-day low of $19.99 yesterday in New York. The ADRs sank 3.6
percent May 23, even as the company reported that first-quarter
 sales  tripled from a year ago after the market closed on May 22,
beating its guidance provided in February.  Xu confirmed the May 23 message in an e-mail to Bloomberg
News yesterday, adding he was seeking to clarify the issue with
analysts.  The new appointment doesn’t imply any “change in
responsibilities between Ms. Yao and myself,” Xu wrote on May
23. “We are here to stay for a long time.”  The Beijing-based company said the appointment of Yao will
“further enhance its financial reporting, internal control,
strategic investment and investor relations capabilities,”
according to a PRNewswire statement distributed on May 22.  The company, which also provides computer desktop software
including a browser, had net income of $14 million for the first
three months, compared with a net loss of $21.4 million a year
ago, according to the statement.  ‘Revenue Model’  Qihoo rejected in an April 3 statement allegations that
were raised in a Forbes magazine article a day earlier that
Qihoo’s “revenue model” had changed since its initial public
offering. The company also refuted accusations by short seller
Citron Research.  “Investors still have concerns about some allegations
short sellers made on Qihoo,” Qi Guo, who does research on U.S-
listed Chinese Internet companies for ThinkEquity Partners LLC
in  San Francisco , said by phone May 23. “Its stock has a good
outlook in the long run, while it is volatile in the short
term.”  Guo maintained a buy rating on Qihoo and a 12-month price
target of $30. Tian X. Hou, an analyst at T.H. Capital LLC
reiterated a buy recommendation and a price estimate of $34
yesterday.  While the co-appointment “is a normal management decision,
it wasn’t communicated well, as people wondered whether the
current CFO will depart,” Hou wrote in a research note
yesterday. “The lack of experience in communications could be
one of the major risks for Qihoo.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  