-- Racecar School Offers Amateurs Thrills, Spills, Insurance
-- B y   J a s o n   H . H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/racecar-school-offers-amateurs-thrills-spills-insurance.html
So, you want to be a racecar driver?
You’re not alone. Actors, airline pilots and surgeons have told
me they dream of chucking their day jobs to race cars
professionally.  (For a slideshow of the racing school, click  here .)   A great fantasy provided you have deep enough pockets. When
it comes to motorsports, there is one guarantee: It’s going to
be expensive. Racecars aren’t cheap to buy, run or fix.  So how to indulge the dream if you’re not fabulously
wealthy?  The short answer is to rent somebody else’s car, and if
possible, rent their know-how and mechanics, too.  This concept is called turn-key racing. Simply show up on
race day to find your car gassed up and pit crew waiting. Dream
achieved. You’re a racecar driver.  Which is why I’m scrunched inside a car, the size and shape
of a coffin, familiarizing myself with the oddities of an open-
wheel Formula  Mazda. (7261)  In a few months, I will be racing one.  The Mazda has no roof, doors or windshield, just a small
cockpit you wriggle into, with four oversized tires and a rear-
mounted engine.  My plan is to compete in at least one race this summer, and
this is the vehicle I’ll eventually be racing in  Skip Barber’s
Open Wheel Formula Car Series .  The series has 20 race weekends throughout the year at
various courses. Everybody is driving the same model, so it all
comes down to driving skills.  Rags to Races  It’s the poor man’s entry to racing -- though poor is a
relative term. A weekend costs $3,500, including the car, pit
crew, tires and gas. You even get coaching.  Drivers qualify on Saturday, and then get to race twice on
Sunday. Races last 30 minutes.  I spend dozens of days a year on racetracks, but have never
experienced wheel-to-wheel racing. Instead of stepping directly
into the heat of battle, I’m investing three days at the Skip
Barber Racing School, at Lime Rock Park in  Connecticut .  Skip Barber is America’s most venerable sports-driving
program, operating since 1975 and putting some 250,000 drivers
through various programs. Any professional race in the U.S. will
probably have a Skip Barber graduate or two among its drivers.  The three-day  race school  ($4,000, though discounts might
be available) is open to anyone with a driver’s license.
Instruction includes time in the classroom and at the racetrack.  Country Roads  Those with more experience might instead consider the two-
day advanced session ($3,500).  Skip Barber does not teach NASCAR-style driving, which
takes place on oval tracks. It focuses on road courses, more
like country roads, with tight corners and elevation changes.  Lime Rock is one of Skip Barber’s main locations, with hubs
in  California ’s Laguna Seca and Road Atlanta in  Georgia .  Drivers develop relationships with different tracks, and
while I’ve got a lot of respect for Lime Rock, I don’t like it.
More than 50 years old, it’s short (1.5 miles) and fast, with a
notorious blind uphill and a long sweeping downhill.  I’m never comfortable here, battling the turns rather than
settling into a rhythm.  It’s dangerous, too, as the up- and downhill have safety
barriers crowding them, something to consider when deciding
whether to opt for the school’s $500 insurance.  Creaky Cars  Our class consists of seven students, and the instructors
really know their stuff. Compared to other schools I’ve attended
however, the cars and curriculum can be creaky.  The cars are sturdy but old -- on one, a plank of plywood
serves as its aerodynamic underbody. The three-day course offers
no lap times, let alone computer telemetry telling you which
corners where you need the most improvement.  And it isn’t until the third day when we’re allowed to pass
other cars.  Still, piloting an open-wheel car is a joy. There are no
fenders covering the wheels, and the wind slams you in the face,
bugs splatting against your helmet’s screen. You feel incredibly
connected to the car, the asphalt and the elements.  It’s the end of the afternoon on the third day, and we are
struggling to master the tricky blind uphill. On one pass I
miscalculate and the rear of my car wiggles. An instructor
admonishes me after. “Be careful right there. There will be
serious consequences if you get it wrong.”  Several laps later, a  New York  City-based photographer
makes a nice pass on me, and charges up the same uphill, much
too fast I think.  Close behind, I come over the rise just in time to see his
car pivoting, wrongly. Tire smoke, a vicious slide, then he
spins off the racetrack and crashes the rear of his car into a
wall. Debris explodes into the air.  Amazingly, he’s unhurt. The car’s safety cell and five-
point safety harness did its job, though the entire back of the
Mazda is smashed to the tune of some $16,000 in damage.  It’s a sobering end to our day, and reminder of the bad
things that can happen out here.  Skip Barber Racing School; +01-866-932-1949;
 http://www.skipbarber.com .  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jaroslovsky  on tech and  Esplund  on
art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 