-- Trade Deal Spurs Record Flow of North Sea Oil to South Korea
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-05-25T11:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/trade-deal-spurs-flow-of-arbitrage-north-sea-oil-to-south-korea.html
An unprecedented 24 million barrels
of North Sea crude were exported to  South Korea  since December
after a free trade agreement with the European Union opened the
16,500-mile (26,500-kilometer) arbitrage trade.  Twelve very large crude carriers have been booked to
transport the oil to South Korea since mid-December, the most on
record over a five-month period, according to tanker reports and
ship-tracking data from  IHS Inc. (IHS)  The FTA, which started in July
2011, gives refiners in the Asian nation about a $3 a barrel
discount compared with supplies from other countries.  “There has been a significant increase in volumes of North
Sea crude shipped to Asia since December,”  Bob Knight , managing
director of tankers at London-based  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s
biggest shipbroker, said by phone yesterday. “The FTA agreement
has been one of the contributing factors in this increase.”  The agreement, the world’s second-largest after the U.S.,
 Canada  and Mexico pact in 1994, was signed in October 2010 and
approved by the EU and South Korean lawmakers in February and
May last year, respectively. The accord expands their 70
billion-euro ($88 billion) trade relationship by scrapping
 import duties  and other barriers, making 99 percent of commerce
duty-free within five years.  South Korean refineries have been exempt from a 3 percent
import tax on crude imports from EU as of July 1, 2011,
according to the FTA  agreement .  Defend the Arbitrage  One VLCC typically holds 2 million barrels of crude. Based
on current prices, the 3 percent tax benefit would save buyers
at least $6 million, enough to pay for a supertanker to
transport the oil from  Europe  to South Korea.  “This is how you can defend the arbitrage down to South
Korea,” Torbjoern Kjus, senior oil market analyst at DNB ASA in
Oslo, said by phone yesterday. “Had that FTA not been in place,
you probably would not see so many cargoes leaving for that
particular country.”  Most  North Sea  oil fields are located offshore of the U.K.
and  Norway . While Norway is not a member of EU, it has a free
trade agreement with South Korea through the EFTA, or European
Free Trade Agreement, which comprises Norway,  Switzerland ,
Lichtenstein and Iceland, Svein Michelsen, a communication
adviser at Norway’s Foreign Ministry, said by e-mail on May 21,
adding that the accord with South Korea includes oil and gas.  About 15 million barrels, or 60 percent of North Sea crude
shipped to South Korea from December to May is Forties blend,
used to set Dated Brent, the benchmark for more than half of
global oil. This is equivalent to 19 percent of Forties
shipments during that period.  South Korean Island  “Brent has become a South Korean island and is therefore
for now still disconnected to the realities of the Atlantic
Basin crude oil dynamics,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of
Zug, Switzerland-based research group Petromatrix GmbH, said in
an e-mailed report today.  South Korea  bought  record of 4.11 million barrels of crude
from the U.K. in February, according to data from Korea National
Oil Corp. This is equal to 5 percent of the nation’s imports in
that month.  Refiners in  Asia  can buy Middle East crude or grades from
the Atlantic Basin and their choice normally depend on the value
of the lighter, low-sulfur, blends from Europe or  Africa  versus
the heavier, high-sulfur, grades from the Gulf. Lighter blends
yield more lucrative products such as diesel and gasoline.  The  Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps , which measures the
European oil benchmark against the Persian Gulf grade, averaged
$3.51 a barrel in the first four months, compared with $5.29 for
all of last year, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd.
The spread closed on Jan. 16 at $2.32, the narrowest level in 14
months. Traders make more profit from shipping North Sea crude
to Asia when the gap between the contracts shrinks.  Details of VLCC fixtures from the North Sea to Asia since
December are as follows. The freight is in millions of dollars.
Hound Point,  Scotland  is the loading terminal of Forties, while
Mongstad is for Norwegian Troll and Heidrun grades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  