-- Trade War Looming as China Rebukes U.S. Support for Solar
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s ,   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-05-25T16:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/trade-war-seen-looming-as-china-rebukes-u-s-support-for-solar.html
China ’s allegation that renewable-
energy subsidies in five U.S. states violate free-trade rules
ratchets up a potentially costly trade war between the world’s
two largest economies.  “It’s a long, slow escalation of trade and currency wars
as we race to the bottom,” said  Theodore O’Neill , an analyst
with Wunderlich Securities Inc. of New York.  Programs supporting renewable power, including wind and
solar, in Washington state,  New Jersey ,  Massachusetts ,  Ohio  and
 California , violate World Trade Organization policies and trade
treaties, according to a preliminary  finding  of an investigation
posted yesterday on the  website  of China’s  Ministry of Commerce .
China filed a complaint today at the WTO over U.S. procedures
for calculating anti-subsidy duties on imports.  Those announcements followed a preliminary decision by the
U.S. Commerce Department last week to impose tariffs of as much
as 250 percent on imports of Chinese  solar cells . The agency
said the units were being sold for less than the cost of
production in an attempt to drive out domestic competition.  Both countries have identified renewable energy as a
strategically important industry that could provide both jobs
and clean power. As a candidate, President  Barack Obama 
campaigned in support of a “green” economy that would replace
jobs lost in declining sectors.  Chinese Complaints  At least four U.S. solar manufacturers filed for bankruptcy
in the past year even as federal subsidies helped build a $8.4
billion U.S. solar  market .  “China has been engaged in a trade war against the U.S.
interests for a number of years and only now are we calling them
to the carpet for their illegal and predatory trade practices,”
said Mike Wessel, a member of the  U.S.-China Economic and
Security Review Commission  that reports to Congress.  Chinese solar companies criticized Commerce’s preliminary
decision May 18 that they improperly benefit from government
subsidies and sell solar cells below cost. High tariffs may
raise costs, slowing demand for polysilicon that’s used to make
solar panels, hurting U.S. companies that reported $2.6 billion
in exports in 2011, including about $700 million to China,
according to a Bloomberg Government report released last week.  ‘Prohibited Subsidies’  China initiated the investigation into U.S. subsidies in
November, a month after seven U.S. solar manufacturers filed
their complaint with the U.S. International Trade Commission and
Commerce. In announcing the preliminary findings yesterday, the
Chinese Ministry of Commerce said some U.S. actions “constitute
prohibited subsidies.”  During the U.S. investigation into whether Chinese
companies received illegal government aid, the U.S. acted
“inconsistently with WTO rules and rulings in many aspects,”
China’s mission to the WTO in Geneva said today in an e-mailed
statement. The U.S. “repeated its wrongful practice” during
its recent anti-subsidy investigation on Chinese solar cells.  China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday that
14 of China’s solar-panel companies have formed an alliance in
response to the trade issues with the U.S.  Nkenge Harmon, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office, defended the U.S. procedures for so-
called countervailing duties today, and said the government is
committed to defending those remedies.  ‘Strongly Supports’  “The Obama administration strongly supports the trade
remedy laws, and was the first administration ever to apply” a
China-specific safeguard on imports from that nation, she said
in an e-mail.  The U.S. is also jousting with China over access for
products including steel pipes, poultry, tires and music. Along
with the European Union and  Japan , the U.S. filed a complaint in
March with the  World Trade Organization  challenging the Asian
nation’s export limits on rare-earth minerals.  “China’s recent investigation of U.S. practices
demonstrates the dangers of imposing unilateral trade barriers
and how political tension can quickly lead to a full blown trade
war,” Jigar Shah, president of the Coalition for Affordable
Solar Energy, which opposes the U.S. tariffs, said in an e-mail.  Additionally, the Commerce Department is scheduled to
announce on May 30 how much in tariffs Chinese companies should
pay over allegations their wind-tower exports receive unfair
government subsidies. The U.S. imports $103.6 million in wind
tower parts annually from China, according to papers filed with
the International Trade Commission.  ‘Slap Back’  As U.S. politicians complain of the trade deficit with
China, the country may take further actions in an effort to
narrow the gap before the November election, said Robert Kapp,
1994-2004 president of the  U.S.-China Business Council . That
will result in China “looking for opportunities to slap back,”
he said.  All countries offer subsidies to certain industries, Hari Chandra Polavarapu, an analyst at Auriga USA LLC in New York,
said in a telephone interview.  “The absurdity is the scope and depth of the subsidies in
China,” Polavarapu said. “You’re competing against a sovereign
when you’re talking about the Chinese solar industry. It’s
economic warfare.”  The U.S. unit of  SolarWorld AG (SWV) , which brought the
complaint, said it was responding to thousands of job losses due
to Chinese trade practices. The company shouldn’t be blamed for
any trade war, SolarWorld said in a statement.  “China’s tactic of retaliation rather than following the
rule of law is extremely disturbing and is yet another example
of the Chinese inappropriately attempting to influence U.S.
investigations,” Timothy Brightbill, an attorney for SolarWorld
said in an e-mailed statement.  The Commerce Department is scheduled to make its final
determination on the solar tariffs in early October. With the
election weeks later, the U.S. and China may continue to
antagonize each other, said Kelly Dougherty, an analyst with New
York-based Macquarie Capital USA Inc.  “The louder the U.S. or SolarWorld is, the louder China is
going to be,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  