-- Rajoy Struggles as PP Tainted in Spain Woes: Euro Credit
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-05-24T07:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/rajoy-struggles-as-pp-tainted-in-spain-woes-euro-credit.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
credibility is being undermined by the role of his  People’s
Party  in the failure of the  Bankia (BKIA)  group, Spain’s third-biggest
lender, and the emergence of more unpaid government bills.  PP-run regional governments in Madrid and Valencia
orchestrated the 2010 merger of seven saving banks to form
Bankia, which was nationalized on May 9. The same regions under
Rajoy’s party control were mostly responsible for the revision
of Spain’s 2011  budget deficit  to 8.9 percent of gross domestic
product from an earlier estimated 8.5 percent.  Spain’s  takeover  of Bankia underscored investor concerns
about the health of the country’s banking system and the
government’s ability to support it after Rajoy said the hole in
public finances was bigger than previously thought. Investors
charge about 963 basis points more to own Bankia bonds maturing
in 2017 than German bunds of similar maturity.  “All this does create a problem in terms of credibility
for the Rajoy government,” said David Rueda, a professor of
comparative politics at Oxford University in Oxford,  England .
“It makes it more difficult for them to convince the public of
their policies and also the justice of carrying them out if they
are seen to be partly to blame.”  The yield on 10-year Spanish government debt exceeds the
rate of German bonds of similar maturity by about 485 basis
points. The  European Central Bank  should act to bring down
borrowing costs because if public debt isn’t sustainable, “we
have a problem,” Rajoy said earlier today after a meeting of
European leaders in Brussels.  Election Victory  The PP won the national election in November by pledging to
create jobs and fix public finances. Rajoy said the Socialists
overspent during an economic boom that ended with the bursting
of the real estate  market  and the highest  unemployment rate  in
the European Union at 24 percent.  Since December, Rajoy has blamed unpopular measures such as
raising taxes and cutting health-care benefits on the need to
 plug the hole  left by his Socialist predecessor  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero .  Rajoy’s complaints are getting harder to justify as the
PP’s role in Spain becomes clearer, Jesus Castillo, an economist
at Natixis in Paris, said in a phone interview.  “It’s a hollow excuse, and it’s less and less credible,”
he said. “No one is fooled.”  Spain revised its 2011 budget deficit on May 18 after
accounting for the unpaid bills of regional governments,
including those of PP-run Madrid, the nation’s second-biggest
economy, and Valencia.  Deficit Woes  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos has conceded that the
deficit slippage has hurt the government. De Guindos previously
served as a deputy to  Rodrigo Rato , a former economy minister in
the PP government of Jose Maria Aznar who went on to lead the
merger of savings banks in regions controlled by the party that
formed Bankia.  “Last year the deficit finished up at 8.9 percent instead
of the 6 percent that was committed to,” de Guindos told
Parliament on May 22. “This has had a negative effect on the
credibility of our accounts, not just because of the size of the
slippage but also because of the incapacity to identify it
beforehand,” he said.  De Guindos appeared before Parliament’s economics committee
late yesterday after a request from opposition parties to
explain what the government plans to do with Bankia, how much
public money will be used and who was responsible for the
lender’s difficulties.  ‘Singular Case’  Bankia is a “singular case” in  Spain  and the government
will put in as much money as needed to clean it up, de Guindos
said. The lender requires at least 9 billion euros ($11.3
billion) to cover its real estate losses. Decisions taken by the 
state on Bankia were the best way to “clear away the doubts 
about the solvency of the Spanish financial system,” he said.  He conceded that the Bankia merger and sale of stock in the
resulting bank last year was a mistake. Bankia’s market  value 
has slumped 56 percent since shares were sold in July.  “Bankia is a paradigmatic case of those errors,” de
Guindos told parliament last night, referring to Spain’s
property boom years.  “Mr. de Guindos should not forget that the lenders with
the most problems were effectively under the direction of his
political party,” said Jose Camarasa, a former Socialist party
spokesman on the Valencia regional assembly and currently a
board member of Bancaja, the Valencia-based savings bank that
was left with 38 percent of Bankia’s parent under the terms of
the merger.  Caja Madrid  Madrid and Valencia were instrumental in the formation of
what would become Bankia from the merger of  Caja Madrid , Bancaja
and five other savings banks. As well as the Bankia consortium,
two other Valencia regional lenders,  Caja de Ahorros del
Mediterraneo (CAM)  SA and  Banco de Valencia SA (BVA) , a bank controlled by
Bancaja, also have been taken over by the government.  “In English, they call such mergers a shotgun marriage and
that’s exactly what happened,” Esperanza Aguirre, the PP’s head
of the Madrid  regional government , told its assembly on May 17,
referring to the creation of Bankia.  She said its finance head, Antonio Beteta, endorsed the
merger that formed Bankia on the recommendation of Zapatero’s
government and the Bank of Spain. Beteta is today Rajoy’s
secretary of state for public administration and in charge of
imposing fiscal discipline on the 17 regional governments.  PP Leadership  “No one has hidden anything here, no one has lied and no
one has made up anything,” Jose Manuel Vela, budget councilor
for the Valencia regional government, said in comments about the
region’s deficit slippage in an interview with Onda Cero radio
yesterday. The slippage was down to “‘extraordinary
circumstances,” including efforts to settle late payments to
suppliers, he said.  As the debate rages in Spain over who is responsible for
the country’s economic woes, Rajoy’s government insists that its
plans to restore public finances and the banking system are on
track.  De Guindos, who this year has ordered banks to take about
67 billion euros of charges for real estate on their books, said
in a May 21 speech that existing provisioning rules on other
types of loan are “sufficient.”  He also has appointed two auditors to evaluate the loan
books of the banks in a bid to bolster investor confidence. His
ministry has said the higher-than-previously reported 2011
deficit was due to one-time spending related to unpaid bills
from previous years and wouldn’t affect this year’s shortfall
goal of 5.3 percent of GDP.  Economic Tests  While senior PP figures such as Rato and Aguirre “owe
taxpayers an explanation” for what has happened to banks and
regional accounts, investors will judge Rajoy on whether he can
restore the economy, said Javier Diaz-Gimenez, an economics
professor at the University of Navarra’s IESE business school in
 Madrid .  “In the end, a government’s credibility is forward-
looking,” he said. “It’ll depend on what happens to deficit
data, the banks’ recapitalization and reforms this year. Facts
are what count, and whether in the end, the economy starts to
grow or not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  