-- Rajoy Urges ECB Action to Reverse Surge in Spanish Yields
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-05-24T09:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/rajoy-urges-ecb-action-to-reverse-surge-in-spanish-bond-yields.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
called on the  European Central Bank  to act to bring down rising
borrowing costs after Spanish bond yields approached the levels
that pushed  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  into bailouts.  “If public debt isn’t sustainable, we have a problem,” he
said today after a meeting of European Union leaders in
Brussels. “I insist it is up to the ECB to take this decision
that it has already taken in the past.”  Rajoy’s call for help from the Frankfurt-based ECB was his
clearest yet. He has previously urged unspecified European
authorities to help him battle  Spain ’s surging yields. The ECB
helped ease yields in August when it began buying the country’s
bonds and then lent euro-region banks 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) for three years in December and February, some of
which was recycled into public debt purchases.  “All the measures I have proposed can be taken in 24
hours, the most important one is guaranteeing the sustainability
of the public debt of the countries of the EU,” Rajoy said.
“For the moment, the sustainability of debt is guaranteed, but
if it happened that it wasn’t anymore, a decision could be taken
in 24 hours.”  Above 6 Percent  The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond fell to 6.167
percent today from 6.204 percent yesterday, narrowing the gap
over German bunds to 480 basis points. The yield rose as high as
6.5 percent last week, approaching the 7 percent threshold that
led Greece, Portugal and Ireland to seek bailouts.  ECB President  Mario Draghi , who implemented the loan-term
lending to banks a month after taking over at the bank, said
that Rajoy wasn’t necessarily calling on the central bank to use
its funds to shore up Spanish debt.  “This liquidity could be provided by other sources as
well,” Draghi said after the meeting. “It’s just what he said
in the meeting.”  Rajoy’s battle to win support from investors and European
colleagues may have been undermined by his government’s
announcement on May 18, at 10 p.m. on a Friday night, that the
2011 budget  deficit  was 8.9 percent of gross domestic product,
compared with the previous estimate of 8.5 percent. The slippage
was due mainly to two regional governments controlled by the
ruling party declaring bills they had left unpaid.  The five month-old government is also struggling to restore
confidence in its financial system as it implements its second
overhaul of banks since coming to power. Three months after its
first effort to clean up lenders, the state nationalized  BFA-
Bankia (BKIA) , the third-largest, on May 9 and then increased
provisioning rules for banks and called in international
consultants to look over their books.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Brussels at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  