-- RBC Drops Most Since November After Missing Estimates
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-05-24T20:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/rbc-toronto-dominion-post-higher-profits-on-loans.html
Royal Bank of Canada  dropped the most
in almost seven months after the nation’s largest lender posted
second-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  Royal Bank said net income from continuing operations,
excluding a loss from its investment in RBC Dexia Investor
Services, increased 4.9 percent to C$1.77 billion ($1.73
billion). Profit excluding some one-time items was $1.17 a share
compared with the C$1.18 average  estimate  of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Toronto-Dominion, Canada’s second-largest
bank, said profit climbed 21 percent to C$1.69 billion, or
C$1.78 a share, beating analysts’ estimates.  Toronto-Dominion benefited from record profit at its U.S.
consumer-banking unit and a rise in auto lending, credit cards
and business banking, while Royal Bank posted higher earnings
from Canadian consumer banking on growth in deposits, mortgages
and business loans.  “Royal Bank and TD lead the pack in terms of personal and
commercial,”  Ian Nakamoto , director of research at MacDougall,
MacDougall & MacTier Inc., which manages about C$4 billion, said
in an interview before results. “I’d like to see if they can
maintain, if not extend, that lead.”  Royal Bank  fell  2.9 percent to close at C$51.38 in Toronto,
its biggest one-day drop since Nov. 1, leading the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Financials Index to a 0.6 percent decline. Toronto-
Dominion gained 0.3 percent to C$78.99.  Acquisition Loss  Royal Bank said net income, including a previously
announced C$202 million acquisition loss from buying an
additional 50 percent stake in RBC Dexia, declined 6.1 percent
to C$1.53 billion, or 99 cents a share, from C$1.63 billion, or
C$1.06 a share.  Toronto-Dominion said it earned C$1.82 a share excluding
items, topping the C$1.78-a-share average  estimate  of 15
analysts.  Higher earnings from Canadian  consumer banking  as well as a
26 percent increase in trading revenue helped lift Royal Bank’s
profit. Continuing operations exclude the Raleigh, North
Carolina-based RBC Bank, which Royal Bank sold to PNC Financial
Services Group Inc.  Royal Bank set aside C$348 million for bad loans, 27
percent higher than a year ago.  ‘Lost in the Woods’  Canadian banking profit rose 4.7 percent to C$937 million,
from C$895 million a year ago. International banking, which
includes RBC Dexia and Caribbean banking, had a net loss of
C$196 million after the acquisition costs.  Royal Bank “looks like they’re lost in the woods,”  John Kinsey , who helps manage about C$1 billion at Caldwell
Securities Ltd. in Toronto, said in an interview. “They sold
the U.S. insurance and U.S. banking. I don’t know where they’re
going.”  Profit at the RBC Capital Markets investment-banking
business rose 11 percent to C$449 million on higher trading and
corporate and investment banking. Trading revenue across the
bank climbed to C$761 million from C$602 million a year ago, led
by trading of equities and  interest rate  and credit securities.  Wealth management profit slid 6.6 percent to C$212 million,
while insurance gained 23 percent to C$151 million on volume
growth and lower claims costs on Canadian insurance products.  ‘Market Confidence’  “Our retail bank is still performing,” Janice Fukakusa,
Royal Bank’s chief financial officer, said in an interview.
“Market confidence issues weigh heavily on the wealth business,
but the minute we see some uptick we should see some
performance.”  Toronto-Dominion said its U.S.-based consumer lender
reported profit of C$356 million on higher fees from loans and
deposits. The lender, which has spent more than $25 billion on
U.S. acquisitions since 2004, has more branches there than in
Canada, and expects annual profit of $1.6 billion from U.S.
operations by next year. U.S. personal and commercial banking
profit was C$1.27 billion in 2011.  Toronto-Dominion expects profit to be at the “lower end”
of its 7 percent to 10 percent growth forecast for 2012, Chief
Financial Officer Colleen Johnston said.  “Some of the headwinds are going to affect us in the
latter half of the year,” Johnston said today in a telephone
interview. Profit has increased 10 percent in the first half of
the fiscal year, Johnston said.  Canada ’s second-largest bank also expects to have a lower
rate of expense growth next fiscal year, Johnston said.  Toronto-Dominion’s Canadian consumer banking profit rose 10
percent to C$808 million and wealth and insurance gained 16
percent to C$365 million, the bank said. Earnings at the TD
Securities investment-banking unit climbed 4.8 percent to C$197
million.  “We had tremendous strength in the retail earnings,”
Johnston said. “This was a record retail quarter for us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  