-- Treasuries Decline as Fed’s Dudley Dims Stimulus View
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-05-24T15:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/treasuries-decline-before-seven-year-note-sale-durable-goods.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year
yields up from almost a record low, as Federal Reserve Bank of
New York President  William Dudley  said he doesn’t currently see
the need for additional economic stimulus.  The yield on the seven-year note  rose  from a record low
before the U.S. sells $29 billion of the notes in its third
auction of coupon-bearing debt this week. Yields fell earlier as
European leaders meeting in Brussels failed to agree on joint
debt sales. Dudley said U.S. economic growth will “pick up a
little bit,” reducing the need for more Fed purchases through
quantitative easing or Operation Twist programs.  “He is one of the anchors on the dovish camp and seeing
him less dovish regarding Twist and QE is a near-term negative
for Treasuries,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at
the broker-dealer BTIG LLC in  New York . “There’s no reason to
think this auction will go poorly. There’s incredible demand for
safe-haven assets, even at these low yields.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  climbed four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.77 percent at 11:08 a.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75
percent security due in May 2022 fell 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000
face amount, to 99 25/32. The yield touched 1.71 percent,
approaching the record low 1.6714 percent set Sept. 23.  The  yield  on the 30-year bond rose four basis points to
2.86 percent.  Yield Levels  The  seven-year yield  rose four basis points to 1.19 percent
after dropping to a record 1.1301 percent. The notes being sold
today yielded 1.22 percent in pre-auction trading. The
securities were sold at a record-low yield of 1.347 percent at
the previous auction on April 26.  “Trades of the last few weeks have certainly been driven
out of  Europe  and so the move feels less like the market is
trying to price in a concession to the seven-year and is more a
response to the absence of any major developments,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  This week’s note offerings, combined with the May 17
auction of $13 billion in 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, will raise $52.9 billion of new cash, as maturing
securities held by the public total $59.1 billion.  “The economy, I think generally, is healing, but very
slowly,” Dudley said in an interview with CNBC, according to
its website. “If we continue to see improvement in the economy,
in terms of using up the slack in available resources, then I
think it’s hard to argue that we absolutely must do something
more in terms of the monetary policy front.”  Policy Gathering  The Fed will hold its policy meeting next month. The U.S.
central bank bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of
quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to boost the
economy.  “If that’s the case, it would be a bit of a disappointment
to the market,” said Tom Tucci, managing director and head of
Treasury trading in New York at CIBC World Markets Corp.,
referring to Dudley’s comments. “We still have another month of
the European crisis and economic data to get through and those
things can still change.”  The central bank bought $1.8 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2036 to August 2041 today, according to the Fed Bank of
New York’s  website . The purchases are part of the central bank’s
program to replace $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its
holdings with longer maturities by the end of June to support
the economy.  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer and founder of
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., commented on monetary policy in a Twitter post.  “Fed’s Dudley less dovish,” he wrote. “QE III now. Depends
on Euroland, inflation & jobs. 50/50.”  Bond Rally  Treasuries have rallied since March on speculation Greece
will abandon the euro as it combats a recession, leading other
nations in the currency bloc to consider doing the same.  Volatility rose yesterday to 73.7 basis points from 70.8
basis points the previous day, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures Treasury price swings
based on options. The gauge is below the one-year average of
87.9 basis points.  Trading volume  rose yesterday above the 2012 average of
$242 billion. About $280 billion of Treasuries changed hands
through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker. Volume
reached $439 billion on March 14, the highest since August.  German Views  Germany  has “huge difficulties” with  France ’s call for
joint borrowing by euro governments,  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
told reporters in Brussels early today after six hours of talks.
European leaders also called on  Greece  to stick with budget cuts
needed to stay in the euro.  Ten-year yields will increase to 2.45 percent by year-end,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
financial companies with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings.  The yield touched a 2012 high of 2.4 percent on March 20
and a low of 1.69 percent on May 17.  Treasuries returned 1.2 percent this month as of yesterday,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show, reflecting demand
for the relative safety of  U.S. debt . Investors tracking the
MSCI All-Country World Index of  stocks  lost 8.3 percent during
the same period, including reinvested dividends.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  