-- Rescue Elusive as ECB Resists Rajoy Bond-Buy Urge: Euro Credit
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-05-25T12:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/rescue-elusive-as-ecb-resists-rajoy-bond-buy-urge-euro-credit.html
The  European Central Bank , which has
spent more than 1 trillion euros ($1.26 trillion) to cap surging
borrowing costs in nations such as Spain and Italy, is saying it
can do little more to halt the crisis until governments act.  “On the one hand we have the ECB, and then we have euro-
zone governments,” said  Michael Leister , a rates strategist at
DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “The ECB is really reluctant to do
anything. It would be very difficult for the ECB to justify
another intervention if politicians don’t deliver.”  Governments need to take “a brave leap” to ensure closer
integration, without which the central bank can only offer
temporary solutions, according to ECB President  Mario Draghi .
Politicians such as Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  say the
central bank should implement additional measures including
boosting bond purchases to bring down borrowing costs.  The  European debt crisis , now in its third year, is
threatening to bring the world economy to a halt. Greek February
2023 bonds have slumped, pushing yields back over 30 percent
today, as speculation builds that the nation will withdraw from
the euro. German 10-year bund yields dropped to a record
yesterday as a contraction in European manufacturing and
services spurred demand for the region’s safest securities.  While additional support from the ECB may help to bring
down yields in so-called peripheral nations, Europe requires
tighter economic cooperation to avoid the threat of renewed debt
market turmoil, according to  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-
income strategist at Rabobank International in London.  ‘Small Step’  “Whether it’s bilateral loans for Greece or ECB purchases
of bonds in the secondary market or bailouts sponsored by the
European Financial Stability Facility - these are all a pooling
of debt risk but never enough to placate the market for long,”
McGuire said. “The measure itself is never enough - it is only
a small step towards that ultimate end goal, fiscal unity.”  Europe needs to take a leap toward greater political
integration to convince investors about the future of monetary
union, Draghi said yesterday in a speech in  Rome .  “The non-standard measures implemented by the ECB helped
us gain time,” he said. “But we have now reached a point where
the process of European integration needs a brave leap of
political imagination.”  ECB Governing Board member Jens Weidmann said policy makers
have “reached the limit of our mandate particularly” with
unconventional measures, according to an interview published in
Le Monde newspaper today. “Governments must take responsibility
and not subcontract to monetary policy,” he said.  ECB Loans  The ECB provided loans to cap borrowing costs in two so-
called longer-term refinancing operations in December and
February.  Italy ’s  10-year bond yield  dropped to 4.68 percent on
March 9, down from a euro-era high of 7.48 percent on Nov. 9.
Similar-maturity  Spanish yields  fell to 4.83 percent on March 1,
from 6.78 percent in November.  The ECB has since halted its bond-purchase program even as
yields have rebounded. The central bank said on May 21 it hadn’t
bought any government debt for a 10th week.  Italy’s 10-year yields have climbed 67 basis points since
March 12, when the central bank last reported settling
purchases, to 5.58 percent as of 1:01 p.m. London time. The
yield on Spanish debt has risen 115 basis points, or 1.15
percentage point, to 6.21 percent.  Rajoy left a summit of  European Union  leaders in Brussels
early yesterday calling on the ECB to act to bring down rising
borrowing costs in some of the 17 euro countries. Greek, Irish,
Spanish and Italian bonds are the worst performing of 26
sovereign debt markets this quarter tracked by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  ‘We Have a Problem’  “If public debt isn’t sustainable, we have a problem,”
Rajoy said. “I insist it is up to the ECB to take this decision
that it has already taken in the past.”  Rajoy spoke after leaders clashed in Brussels over the
possibility of joint debt sales, failing to smooth differences
between the leaders of  Germany  and  France  on the adoption of so-
called euro bonds.  A majority of leaders backed the bonds, and Italy can help
persuade Germany to support  Europe ’s “common good” as well,
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said yesterday. His account
contrasted with that of Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who told reporters that joint debt sales “didn’t find
much support.”  Politics take time that the  bond market  doesn’t always
allow for, according to Niels From, chief analyst at Nordea Bank
in Copenhagen.  “It’s one thing that leaders might make some decisions,
but it’s another thing for them to implement them,” he said in
an interview. “The process has shown to be very slow, so the
prospects are higher for the ECB coming back into the market to
stabilize it.”  ‘Too Long’  The central bank should cut its benchmark rate by half a
percentage point from its current 1 percent and start a new,
pre-announced program of buying sovereign debt from all 17 euro
nations, as well as extending further loans to the region’s
banks, according to Soeren Moerch, head of government bond
trading at Danske Bank in Copenhagen.  “It takes too long for governments to act,” he said.
“Eurobonds in practice will take at least a year and that’s if
they’re fast-tracked. With all the legal preparations it will
probably take three. Quantitative easing, en masse, that’s what
the ECB should do and the ECB is the only institution that could
do it.”  Euribor futures climbed for the four days through May 24,
indicating investors were adding to bets for lower  interest
rates . The implied yield on the contract expiring in December
declined to 0.57 percent from 0.67 percent over the period. The
central bank’s governing council next meets on June 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  