-- Rhoen Klinikum Management Will Back Fresenius Takeover Offer
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-05-24T16:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/rhoen-klinikum-management-will-back-fresenius-takeover-offer-3-.html
Rhoen Klinikum AG (RHK) ’s management said
it will back the 3.1 billion-euro ($3.9 billion) takeover offer
from  Fresenius SE (FRE) , contingent on an agreement to maintain
certain jobs and locations at the German hospital operator.  Rhoen Klinikum executives will remain in leadership
positions after the deal is complete, Chief Executive Officer
Wolfgang Pfoehler said today in a letter to employees of the Bad
Neustadt an der Saale, Germany-based company. The management
board entered into an agreement with Fresenius today, the
company said in a statement.  Rhoen Klinikum’s supervisory board is scheduled to make a
recommendation on the offer on May 28, the company said.
Fresenius, the German operator of the Helios hospital chain,
offered on April 26 to buy Rhoen Klinikum for 22.50 euros a
share, 52 percent more than the closing price a day before. The
deal would build Fresenius’s hospital unit to 6 billion euros in
annual sales, about 8 percent of the German market, and allow
“substantial” cost savings, Fresenius has said.  “This is it,” Birgit Kulhoff, a Zurich-based  fund manager 
at Rahn & Bodmer Co., said in a telephone interview. Management
approval means the deal will probably go through, she said.
“The deal makes a lot of sense in terms of cost savings, in
terms of simple volume you can achieve.”  Rhoen Klinikum investors have a June 27 deadline to tender
their shares.  Germany ’s financial regulator approved the offer
on May 18,  Bad Homburg , Germany-based Fresenius said in a
document posted on its website at the time.  Open Question  “Despite this positive recommendation of the management
board, it remains open whether the Fresenius offer will be
successful,” Pfoehler said in the letter. “I ask you for your
patience.”  Fresenius’s offer is contingent on receiving at least 90
percent of Rhoen Klinikum shares in the offer, and on winning
approval from antitrust regulators. Rhoen Klinikum Chairman
Eugen Muench supports the sale, and he and his wife will tender
their 12 percent stake, Fresenius said last month when it
announced the offer.  Rhoen Klinikum shares rose 0.6 percent to 21.97 euros in
 Frankfurt .  Another condition of Rhoen Klinikum’s management approval
was keeping the company’s Bad Neustadt offices, according to
Pfoehler’s letter.  Rhoen Klinikum is being advised by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
Berenberg Bank. Fresenius is getting advice from Deutsche Bank,
and the company’s legal adviser is Hengeler Mueller.  Fresenius has said it hopes to close the purchase in the
third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  