-- Rhoen Said to Plan Support for EU3.1 Billion Fresenius Sale
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-05-24T09:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/rhoen-said-to-plan-support-for-eu3-1-billion-fresenius-sale-1-.html
Rhoen Klinikum AG (RHK) ’s management plans
to back a 3.1 billion euro ($3.9 billion) sale of the German
hospital operator to Fresenius SE, said people with knowledge of
the matter.  Rhoen Klinikum may announce its support for the bid by the
end of this month, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. The company doesn’t
anticipate a counteroffer or attempt to block the takeover by a
competitor, two of the people said. Rhoen Klinikum’s board has
yet to vote and officially approve the deal, the people said.  Fresenius, the German operator of the Helios hospital
chain, offered on April 26 to buy Rhoen Klinikum for 22.50 euros
a share, 52 percent more than the company’s closing price the
day before the offer was announced. The deal would build
Fresenius’s hospital unit to 6 billion euros in annual revenue,
about 8 percent of the German market, and allow “substantial”
cost savings, Fresenius has said.  Rhoen Klinikum investors have a June 27 deadline to tender
their shares.  Germany ’s financial regulator approved the offer
on May 18,  Bad Homburg , Germany-based Fresenius said in a
 document  posted on its website at the time.  Joachim Weith, a Fresenius spokesman, said the company’s
bid is a good offer for all stakeholders and declined to comment
further. A spokesman for Rhoen Klinikum declined to comment.  In Talks  Fresenius and Rhoen Klinikum executives have been holding
discussions this month about the offer and management board
members are negotiating payouts as part of a sale, according to
the people. Rhoen Klinikum’s supervisory board is also likely to
support the offer, they said.  Rhoen Klinikum Chairman Eugen Muench supports the sale and
he and his wife will tender their 12 percent stake, Fresenius
said last month when it announced the offer. Rhoen Klinikum
Chief Financial Officer Erik Hamann said at the time that the
bid surprised company executives, and the board will review the
proposal.  Muench founded Rhoen Klinikum, based in Bad Neustadt an der
Saale, Germany, in 1973. The company helped begin a push to save
money in the industry by buying public hospitals and
consolidating administrative and other functions.  Fresenius completed a 1.01 billion-euro capital increase on
May 11 to help finance the deal, and has said additional funding
will come from a syndicated loan, a bond issue and equity
instruments. The company said it has financing commitments from
Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Societe Generale SA,
Credit Suisse Group AG and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   90 Percent  Rhoen Klinikum is being advised by Morgan Stanley and
Berenberg Bank. Fresenius is getting advice from Deutsche Bank
and the company’s legal adviser is Hengeler Mueller.  Fresenius’s offer is contingent on receiving at least 90
percent of Rhoen Klinikum shares in the offer, and on winning
approval from antitrust regulators. Rhoen Klinikum’s articles of
incorporation require 90 percent for a deal to go through,
Fresenius said. The company may need to sell individual
hospitals in regions where there is overlap to address antitrust
concerns, Weith has said.  Fresenius has said it hopes to close the purchase in the
third quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  