-- Bud May Become Major Hurricane, Threat to Mexico Coast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-25T00:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/tropical-storm-bud-almost-a-hurricane-in-pacific-ocean-nhc-says.html
Hurricane Bud, with winds of 110
miles (177 kilometers) per hour in the Pacific, may become a
major storm late today and will probably go ashore on the
southwest Mexican coast tomorrow.  Mexico  issued hurricane warnings from Manzanillo to Cabo
Corrientes, where high winds and heavy rains are expected
overnight, the  U.S. National Hurricane Center  said in an
advisory shortly before 5 p.m.  New York  time.  “Preparation to protect life and property should be rushed
to completion,” the center said. “Swells generated by Bud are
beginning to affect portions of the southern and southwestern
coasts of Mexico.”  The storm, a Category 2 on the five-step Saffir-Simpson
scale, is just below the 111-mph threshold of a major hurricane.
It was located about 200 miles south-southwest of Manzanillo and
moving northeast at 9 mph, the center said in an  intermediate
advisory  at 8 p.m. New York time.  A U.S. Air Force reconnaissance plane that flew through Bud
earlier today found that maximum sustained winds remained near
110 mph, with some “some strengthening possible tonight or
tomorrow morning,” the center said in the 8 p.m. advisory.  Forecasters had predicted the core of Bud would remain
offshore before it reversed course into the open ocean. Now Bud
is expected to go ashore between Puerto Vallarta and Manzanillo
and then back out to sea.  Manzanillo’s port is known for container and rail
facilities, as well as being a destination for  cruise ships ,
according to the Manzanillo Sun  website .  Heavy Rain  The storm may drop 4 to 6 inches of rain across
southwestern Mexico with as much as 10 inches in some areas, the
center said.  “These rainfall amounts could produce life-threatening
flash floods and mudslides,” the 8 p.m. advisory said.  Tropical-storm force winds of at least 39 mph reach out 115
miles from Bud’s eye. The storm’s hurricane-strength winds
extend 35 miles from its core.  The hurricane center is also monitoring a low-pressure area
over northern Cuba and southern Florida that has  a 40 percent
chance  of developing in the next 48 hours. It may organize into
a tropical or subtropical system over the weekend as it moves
northeast into the Atlantic, the center said. Heavy rain may
fall in parts of  Florida , the Bahamas, Cuba and the  Cayman
Islands .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  