-- India’s Growth De-Rated as Rupee Constrains Subbarao: Economy
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-05-25T03:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/rupee-gains-as-subbarao-vows-necessary-steps-to-curb-swings.html
India ’s central bank chief pledged to
take steps as needed to curb swings in the rupee as the
currency’s slump threatens to stoke inflation and limit scope
for interest-rate cuts.  “We will do whatever is necessary, consistent with our
policy,” Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said late yesterday in
Mussoorie, in north India. “We have taken action to improve the
current flows, encourage inflows and also to curb speculation.”  The rupee’s 19 percent slump against the dollar in the past
year, driven in part by the failure of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  to liberalize investment rules, adds pressures to an
inflation rate already the highest among BRIC nations. The
Reserve Bank of India will probably be unable to lower borrowing
costs until October-to-December, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
today as it downgraded its growth forecast for the country.  “The RBI has limited room to prop up the rupee,” said
 Arun Singh , a Mumbai-based senior economist at Dun & Bradstreet
Information Services India Pvt. “The ball is in the
government’s court. They need to act at a swift pace and give a
positive signal to foreign investors about commitment to pending
economic reforms. That will reverse the tide.”  India’s currency reached a record low of 56.3875 per dollar
yesterday, before recouping some losses to close at 55.655. Its
tumble in the past 12 months is the worst in a basket of 11
major Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The BSE India
Sensitive Index ended 1.7 percent higher. The yield on the 8.79
percent bonds due November 2021 fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 8.5 percent.  Conserve the Reserves  With  Greece ’s election still weeks away and the risks of an
escalation in Europe’s woes difficult to assess, the RBI may be
wary in drawing down India’s reserves to support the rupee. The
nation had $258 billion of  foreign-exchange holdings  as of May
11, down about $26 billion from the end of October, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Intervention is increasingly becoming counter-productive
as it is only breeding questions about adequacy of foreign-
exchange reserves,” Indranil Sen Gupta, an economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in Mumbai, wrote in a note to clients
yesterday.  As one response, India may issue a foreign-currency
denominated bond of about $20 billion, Sen Gupta said. Barclays
Plc analysts today also predicted a possible sale of dollar-
denominated securities for non-resident Indian investors,
perhaps through the  State Bank  of India.  No Dollar Bond  Even so, Subbarao said India isn’t contemplating selling
sovereign bonds abroad. The  Reserve Bank  is continuously
monitoring the  exchange rate , he told reporters after attending
a board meeting of the central bank.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  Japan  today reported that core consumer
prices, which exclude fresh food, rose 0.2 percent in April from
a year earlier, showing the  Bank of Japan  remains distant from
its 1 percent inflation target after years of falling prices.
Singapore may announce that industrial output grew 4.1 percent
in April from a year before, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  In Europe, German  consumer confidence  for June as measured
by the GfK survey is forecast to be unchanged at 5.6, according
to the median estimate. French consumer confidence in May is
also forecast to remain the same, a separate survey showed.
Italy may say retail sales fell in March from the previous month.  In the U.S., a report due later today may show the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan consumer confidence gauge was
unchanged in May from a preliminary reading of 77.8, the highest
level since January 2008, economists said.  Inflation Challenge  Goldman revised its forecast for India’s wholesale
inflation gauge to a 6.5 percent gain for the fiscal year that
began April 1, from 5 percent previously, citing higher food and
fuel costs. Tushar Poddar, a Goldman economist in Mumbai, wrote
in a note to clients that the RBI will now likely lower  interest
rates  by half a percentage point in the final three months of
2012, compared with the 75 basis points previously seen.  India’s gross domestic product will increase 6.6 percent
this fiscal year, down from 7.2 percent previously predicted,
according to Goldman. Rohini Malkani, an economist at Citigroup
Inc. in Mumbai, said in a note yesterday “there is now near-
consensus that the India story has de-rated, with growth at best
likely in the 6.5 percent to 7 percent range” this year.  India reports first-quarter GDP figures next week, forecast
to show a year-on-year increase of 6 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Return to Risk  The rupee has also been hurt by a record trade deficit and
reduced demand for emerging-market assets as  Europe ’s debt
crisis dims the global outlook. Goldman predicts a rebound in
coming months as risk appetite returns.  The currency’s slide may increase the cost of imports such
as oil and stoke inflation, a risk underscored by Indian
refiners’ decision to boost petrol prices yesterday.  India’s central bank this month stepped up the fight to
steady the rupee. It curbed trading in currency derivatives to
rein in volatility and moved to boost the supply of dollars by
cutting the amount of overseas income companies can hold in
foreign currency to 50 percent from 100 percent.  Officials have also raised interest rates on non-rupee
deposits by as much as 300 basis points and freed up borrowing
costs on foreign-exchange loans to exporters.  Gasoline Prices  State-run refiners including Indian Oil Corp. increased
 gasoline  prices by 11 percent to 73.18 rupees ($1.31) a liter in
 New Delhi  yesterday. Diesel, kerosene and cooking  gas prices 
were left unchanged.  Subbarao said the central bank won’t rule out the
possibility of selling dollars directly to oil refiners. India
imports about 80 percent of its crude oil needs.  In March this year, he said the  Reserve Bank of India  only
intervenes in the foreign-exchange market to curb swings in the
rupee and prevent disruption to macroeconomic stability.  The governor yesterday reiterated the central bank’s stance
that it will consider inflation and economic growth data before
deciding on interest rates at the June 18 policy meeting.  The central bank lowered borrowing costs last month for the
first time since 2009, by 50 basis points to 8 percent, to
bolster spending at home. It also flagged price pressures from
the fiscal deficit, energy costs and the weaker rupee.  Indian inflation quickened to 7.23 percent in April. That’s
the fastest pace among the so-called BRIC group of biggest
 emerging markets  that also includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  While the headline gauge “surprised on the upside” last
month,  core inflation  remains below 5 percent, Subbarao said.  Asia’s third-largest economy probably expanded 6.7 percent
in the year through March 2012, less than the 8.4 percent pace
recorded in each of the previous two fiscal years, according to
the median  estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey.  Faltering efforts to liberalize the economy, uncertainty
over tax changes and the highest BRIC fiscal deficit have
damaged sentiment, deterring investment from abroad. Standard &
Poor’s cut India’s credit outlook to negative from stable last
month, putting at risk its investment grade status.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  