-- Russak-Aminoach at Bank Leumi Helm in Battle With Hapoalim
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-05-24T07:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/russak-aminoach-at-bank-leumi-helm-in-battle-with-hapoalim-1-.html
Rakefet Russak-Aminoach stepped down
as chief executive officer of one of  Israel ’s leading accounting
firms in 2003 to pursue her long-time dream of succeeding her
mentor, Galia Maor, in the top job at  Bank Leumi  Le-Israel Ltd.  “She took a risk,” Yossi Rosen, the chairman of  Oil
Refineries Ltd. (ORL)  who has been a client of Russak-Aminoach’s for
both accounting and banking services, said in an April 29
telephone interview. “She believed in her abilities and she was
fulfilling a dream,” even though she was given no assurances
she’d get the job, he said.  Maor is a hard act to follow. She tripled Tel Aviv-based
Leumi’s balance sheet and produced a total return of about 490
percent -- 33 percentage points more than Israel’s TA-100 Index
-- for shareholders since becoming CEO 17 years ago.  Russak-Aminoach, who succeeded her on May 1, takes over as
competition is increasing and analysts forecast earnings are
falling for Israel’s largest bank by assets. The  stock  is down
6.6 percent this year compared with a 5 percent  advance  in the
nation’s second-biggest lender,  Bank Hapoalim Ltd. (POLI) , and a 2.8
percent retreat in the benchmark Tel Aviv 25 Index.  Joseph Wolf , an analyst at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in Tel Aviv, said
on May 15 that his preliminary estimate is for Leumi to report
second-quarter net income of 260 million shekels ($67 million),
or a drop of 54 percent from 563 million shekels in the year-
earlier period. Wolf attributed the estimate to higher loan-loss
provisions compared with the “unusually low” figures in the
second quarter of 2011, when the bank set aside 73 million
shekels versus 196 million shekels in the year-earlier quarter.  Since Russak-Aminoach replaced Maor, Leumi’s shares have
fallen 14 percent, more than Tel Aviv-based Hapoalim’s 7.3
percent retreat and the TA-25’s 9.4 percent decrease.  Second Daughter  Russak-Aminoach declined to be interviewed, according to an
e-mailed response from Bank Leumi on April 23.  The second daughter of three of an accountant and a
teacher, Russak-Aminoach had three university degrees by the age
of 28, in economics and accounting, business administration and
law. She graduated with honors from  Tel Aviv  University, where
she met her future husband Reem Aminoach, now the director of
the budget department at the Ministry of Defense, while
attending classes.  “She used to sit in my ‘Introduction to Economics’ class
together with her future husband Reem,” Professor  Manuel Trajtenberg  said in a telephone interview on April 16. “I
noticed her because of the quality of her questions, her drive,
and her intensive interest.”  Similar Haircuts  Even then, she had a goal. “She was at a crossroads
between studying for a doctorate or turning to the business
world,” Erez Vigodman, chief executive officer of Makhteshim-
Agan Industries Ltd., an agrochemicals company, said in an
interview on Israel’s Channel 2 news on Feb. 17. “I said: Let’s
go 15-20 years forward. What do you want to be when you grow up?
She thought for a while and said: Galia Maor.”  Russak-Aminoach, 46, and Maor, 69, have similar haircuts --
short, tucked behind the ears with a few strands falling over
their foreheads -- and favor the same cut of dark pant-suits
with a blouse peeking from under a buttoned jacket. They even
prefer the same shade of dark-red nail polish.  “Very few chief executive officers have been able to
identify, train and groom their replacement as Maor did with
Russak-Aminoach,” Dan Gillerman, chairman of Markstone Capital
Group LLC, with $800 million under management, said in an
interview in Tel Aviv on April 18.  Accounting Job  “Galia had the foresight and graciousness to pave the way
for her successor and fight for her to get that position,” said
Gillerman, a former director at  Bank Leumi (LUMI)  and former Israeli
ambassador to the  United Nations , who brought Maor to the bank
in 1991.  After teaching business administration to officers during
her army service, Russak-Aminoach became Maor’s assistant for
two years, before leaving in 1995 to become a partner and then
lead the accounting firm KPMG Somekh Chaikin. She returned to
Leumi in 2004 to head its corporate division, becoming deputy
CEO in July.  Russak-Aminoach set up a unit to do independent credit
underwriting, separate from the corporate business unit. It
provided an independent verification of a candidate before a
loan was approved, the first of its kind in Israel.  During her tenure, loan-loss  provisions declined  to 734
million shekels at the end of 2011, from 1.51 billion shekels,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Provisions at Hapoalim
totaled  1.2 billion  shekels at the end of last year.  ’Highest Quality’  “The credit portfolio that she has managed is considered
the highest quality in the market, with the least bad debt,”
Adi Scop, a banking analyst and the head of sales at I.B.I. -
Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd., said by phone on April 2.  Russak-Aminoach also diversified the bank’s lending, moving
away from large corporate clients toward middle-market
customers, and shunned leveraged buyouts, all of which helped
minimize losses through the 2008 global financial crisis,
Terence Klingman, a senior analyst at Psagot Investment House
Ltd., said in a phone interview on April 29.  Leumi was less exposed than Hapoalim when  Africa Israel
Investments Ltd. (AFIL) , the real estate holding company controlled by
Lev Leviev, said it had to restructure debt in August 2009,
Klingman said. Leviev said the company was having trouble
refinancing long-term debt after a sharp decline in the value of
real estate investments in the U.S. and  Russia .  Hapoalim Profits  Earnings at Leumi and Hapoalim plunged in 2008 as the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers ’ Holdings Inc. led to the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression and writedowns at
Israel’s two largest banks. Hapoalim was the worst-hit by losses
from subprime holdings, posting an 895 million-shekel loss for
the year. Leumi’s net income in 2008 was 92 million shekels.  Hapoalim, founded in 1921 as a laborers bank and today
controlled by billionaire Shari Arison, is beating Leumi by some
measures. It reported  net income  of 2.75 billion shekels last
year, more than the 1.89 billion shekels for Leumi. Hapoalim’s
return on equity was 12 percent compared with 8 percent at
Leumi.  Leumi and Hapoalim each hold a 31 percent stake of consumer
and commercial loans in Israel, according to I.B.I.’s Scop.
 Mizrahi Tefahot Bank Ltd. (MZTF) , located in  Ramat Gan , Israel, has 15
percent, he said. Mizrahi Tefahot’s stock is up 5.4 percent this
year.  “We are beginning to reap the benefits of our multiyear
strategic plan,” Ofra Preuss, a Hapoalim spokeswoman, said by
phone on May 10. “Hapoalim has surpassed Leumi in nearly every
parameter and is once again Israel’s leading bank.”  Leumi’s Results  Leumi’s  assets  were 365.9 billion shekels at the end of
2011, up from 112.7 billion shekels at the end of 1995, while
the bank’s loan book rose to 246.2 billion shekels from 71.4
billion shekels and profit more than quadrupled from 410 million
shekels in the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That helped more than double Leumi’s market value to 16.1
billion shekels from 6.1 billion shekels.  Hapoalim’s  assets  were 356.7 billion shekels at the end of
2011, up from 135.8 billion shekels at the end of 1995, while
the bank’s loan book rose to 251.8 billion shekels from 105.5
billion shekels, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Hapoalim’s market value at the end of 2011 was 16.4 billion
shekels up from 6.3 billion shekels in 1996, when the shares
were listed.  Leumi, whose board approved a plan on Feb. 12 to cut costs
by as much as 400 million shekels a year to improve
profitability, is scheduled to report first-quarter results on
May 31. Barclay’s Wolf estimates net income of 335 million
shekels for the quarter and net interest income of 1.8 billion
shekels. In the first quarter of 2011 net income was 577 million
shekels and net interest income 1.9 billion shekels.  Core Capital  Russak-Aminoach takes over amid a global economic slowdown
and as Israel increases capital adequacy requirements.  The  Bank of Israel  forecasts economic growth will slow to
3.1 percent this year from 4.8 percent in 2011. Leumi is also
responding to a requirement for higher core Tier 1 capital, the
ratio of the bank’s core equity capital to its total risk-
weighted assets, which regulators use to measure financial
health.  The central bank published a draft guideline on March 14
that sets a minimum core Tier 1 ratio of 10 percent for the two
largest banks to be implemented by Jan. 1, 2017. Leumi’s was 8.1
percent at the end of 2011, compared with 7.9 percent at
Hapoalim, according to data provided by the banks.  ’Hard Balance’  “The desire of the bank to grow and share dividends with
shareholders but also increase core capital is a hard balance to
strike in a period of economic uncertainty,” Barclay’s Wolf
said in an April 2 interview.  Banks typically increase their capital through retained
earnings, by refraining from distributing dividends, and by
raising money in the  capital markets  or selling assets to reduce
risk weighted assets.  “Leumi has a winning card up its sleeve,” Scop said. “In
order to meet the new capital adequacy ratio swiftly, it can
sell its 18 percent stake in  Israel Corp. (ILCO)  thus unlocking huge
value and regulatory capital at a stroke.” Israel Corp., based
in Tel Aviv, is a holding company with investments in the
shipping, oil refining and chemical industries.  Final Conference  At Maor’s final press conference on March 29, Russak-
Aminoach, making her first appearance as the next CEO, sat at
the far end of the table, leaving her mentor center stage one
last time.  “This is the 17th time I am standing before you, and I
will not deny, it is more emotional for me than ever,” Maor
said, with the hint of a tremble in her voice. “I am sorry I
will not be able to complete the work I have started at the
bank,” Maor added at the end of the presentation.  Russak-Aminoach received offers from other firms while at
Leumi and turned them down, Rosen of Oil Refineries said in a
phone interview on April 9. If she had not pursued a career with
Leumi, she would be the chief executive at another company, he
said.  “People generally have no patience and give up,” Rosen
said. “She is in for the long run.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  