-- Micex Rebounds, Rallies Most in 3 Months as Oil Gains on Economy
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-24T16:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/russia-stocks-rise-from-2-year-low-as-china-bets-lift-oil-metal.html
Russian stocks rallied from a two-
year low, jumping the most in three months as oil, the country’s
main export earner, climbed.  The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 2.2 percent to close at
1,284.48 in Moscow, the strongest gain since Feb. 24. Stocks
retreated as much as 1.2 percent earlier. OAO Sberbank rose 3.6
percent as three people familiar with the matter said the
country’s biggest lender is near a deal to acquire the Turkish
unit of Franco-Belgian bank Dexia SA. Oil producers OAO  Tatneft (TATN) 
and OAO Surgutneftegas gained 5.8 percent and 4 percent,
respectively. Federal Grid Co. tumbled 6.2 percent.  Oil rose as much as 1.8 percent after closing below $90 a
barrel for the first time in seven months yesterday. European
Union leaders called for Greece to stick with budget cuts to
stay in the euro. The number of Americans filing first-time
claims for unemployment insurance payments declined last week.  “The EU summit gave the market hope that the leaders came
to a decision that  Greece  will remain in the Eurozone,” Anton Fedorov, an analyst at Kapital Asset Management in Moscow, said
by phone. “The situation remains critical.”  Crude,  Russia ’s main export earner, added 1.5 percent to
$91.25 in  New York . Brent oil rose 1 percent to $106.58. Russia,
the world’s biggest energy exporter, received almost 50 percent
of budget revenue from oil and gas sales last year, according to
government estimates.  Sberbank Deal  In a worst-case scenario following Greece’s exit from the
euro area, Russia’s economy would contract 2.1 percent with the
potential for $95 billion in capital leaving the country in a
year, Ksenia Yudaeva, chief economist at Moscow-based OAO
Sberbank, the country’s biggest lender, said by phone yesterday.  Sberbank Chief Executive Officer  German Gref  said today
capital inflows into Russia won’t resume until global outlook
improves. Gref said he sees “clear” signs of insufficient
liquidity in Russia and urged the central bank to introduce new
liquidity instruments.  Sberbank, eastern  Europe ’s largest lender, rose to 81.57
rubles. Sberbank and Dexia may sign an “exclusivity agreement”
on the sale of Denizbank as early as tonight, said two people
who declined to be identified because the information isn’t
public. The Moscow-based lender may agree to pay as much as 1.5
times Denizbank’s book value, said one person close to the deal.  Volumes Slump  Applications for U.S. jobless benefits decreased by 2,000
to 370,000 in the week ended May 19 from a revised 372,000 the
prior week, Labor Department figures showed today. The initial
claims matched the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. The number of people on unemployment benefit rolls
and those receiving extended payments dropped.  Russia was the first of the so-called BRIC countries to
enter a  bear market  in 2012 last week after the dollar-
denominated RTS Index fell more than 20 percent from a March 15
peak.  Trading volumes  on the exchange declined this week, with
45.5 billion shares changing hands on the Micex today, according
to data on the exchange’s website, down from 70.7 billion May
18.  Russian stocks trade at 4.4 times  estimated earnings ,
having gained 1 percent this year. That compares with a 1.4
percent drop for the MSCI Emerging-Market Index which trades at
9.2 times projected earnings. MSCI EM Index rose 0.7 percent to
903.53.  -- Editors: Alex Nicholson, Ash Kumar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  