-- Russia’s Vityaz, Abu Dhabi’s Murban Trade Higher: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-05-24T11:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/russia-s-vityaz-abu-dhabi-s-murban-trade-higher-asia-crude.html
Russia’s Vityaz crude for delivery in
July and August sold at higher premiums than cargoes traded last
month.  Abu Dhabi ’s Murban oil rose for a second day.  Sakhalin Energy Investment Co. sold Vityaz blend for late
July to early August at a premium of about $5.50 a barrel to
benchmark Dubai oil prices, said two traders who participate in
the market, declining to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak to the media. The company also sold three
other cargoes loading from July to early August, one of the
traders said.  The premiums are up from last month. Vityaz for June to
July sold at a premium of $5.30, said two traders on April 19.  Abu Dhabi’s Murban crude rose 3 cents to 35 cents below its
official selling price, the second day of gains, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. halted a crude-distillation
unit at its refinery in Kashima,  Japan , on May 21 due to an
equipment malfunction, according to a company official who
declined to be identified, citing company policy. A start date
for the 189,000-barrel-a-day unit is “undetermined,” the
official said today in a phone interview.  The profit from turning a barrel of Dubai crude into fuels
priced in the oil-trading hub of Singapore averaged $3.28 during
the last five days, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The
30-day average is $4.08 a barrel.  Dubai Spreads  Dubai crude’s  backwardation , when prices for prompt
supplies are  greater  than future delivery, rose 3 cents. Swaps
for June were 78 cents a barrel more than August, according to
data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a London-based broker.  The July Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps, which measures the
European marker grade’s premium against the Middle Eastern oil,
fell 8 cents to $3.62 a barrel, according to data from PVM. The
August EFS was down 3 cents at $3.45.  Oman crude for July delivery fell $1.21 to $102.42 a barrel
at 12:30 p.m. on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.  Dubai crude for August will sell for 10 cents a barrel
above the average settlement price for Oman futures in June, the
DME said today in an e-mailed statement. That’s up from a 10-
cent discount last month.  Phibro LLC sold a cargo of Upper Zakum crude to Mercuria
Energy Trading SA.  Mercuria bought the 475,000-barrel shipment of Abu Dhabi’s
Upper Zakum crude after purchasing 19 Dubai partial cargoes in
May from Phibro during the oil-pricing window operated by Platts,
according to a survey of traders who monitor the market.  Mercuria bought three partial cargoes today from Phibro,
two at $102.30, and one at $102.25.  The partial cargoes must be consolidated into one shipment
when the same buyer and seller agree to trade 19 or more of the
25,000-barrel lots during a month. The seller can choose to
supply Dubai, Upper Zakum or Oman to the buyer. Arcadia
Petroleum Ltd. also bought one from Phibro at $102.20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  