-- SABMiller Says Annual Profit Rises, Boosted by Africa
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-05-24T10:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/sabmiller-says-annual-profit-rises-boosted-by-latin-america.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
biggest brewer by volume, said it expects profit margins to show
little change this year as savings programs and price increases
offset rising commodity prices.  The brewer of Grolsch and Peroni, which reported a 12
percent increase in annual earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization today, expects its Ebitda margin to remain
“flattish” in the fiscal year ending March 2013, Chief
Executive Officer Graham Mackay said on a conference call.  Brewers including SABMiller face rising prices for barley
and sugar as well as lackluster demand in the U.S. and  Europe ,
where economic turmoil is leading drinkers to trade down to
cheaper beers. The London-based company said it’s counting on
growth in Latin America and  Africa , which buoyed earnings in the
past fiscal year, to continue to drive growth.  The results showed that “the core regions of Latin America
and  South Africa  are doing quite well,” said  Gerard Rijk , an
 analyst  at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “The focus will be, in my
view, on Foster’s” and whether the company can continue to
drive cost improvements.  SABMiller, which started selling beer to gold prospectors
in South Africa in 1895, bought  Australia ’s Foster’s Group Ltd.
for about A$10.5 billion ($10.3 billion) last year to further
its expansion outside Europe and the U.S. The integration is
proceeding well, it said today.  Prepared for Greek Exit  The stock showed little change, trading at 2,399.5 pence as
of 11:04 a.m. in London. The shares have gained about 6 percent
this year.  SABMiller declined to comment on the prospects for the  euro
zone  or the possibility of a Greek exit from the group, saying
it’s less exposed than other consumer-goods companies and is
“watching the situation carefully.” CFO Wilson said today on a
conference call that the company was “prepared” in case of an
exit, and is taking steps including ensuring it minimizes
exposure to the euro where possible.  Ebita rose to $5.63 billion in the year ended March 31, the
brewer said in a  statement . The median estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for profit on that basis of $5.7
billion. Ebita expanded in all regions except Europe, where
consumers selecting cheaper beers in Romania and  Poland  hurt
sales. Organic Ebita rose 14 percent in  Latin America  and 13
percent in Africa.  Barley Impact  Developing countries  will probably continue to expand in
the current year, the company said, while markets including
Europe and the U.S. will post no more than “modest
improvements” in  consumer spending .  The brewer selectively increased prices in Latin America
last year, its biggest region, while also selling more beer
there and in Africa. Annual beer volume rose 3 percent in the
period, excluding the effect of acquisitions and currency
fluctuations. Group revenue rose 11 percent to $31.4 billion.  The company still has “reasonable pricing power” in many
markets, Chief Financial Officer Jamie Wilson said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television with  Mark Barton .  Mackay said he hopes input costs may fall in the second
half, but “that depends on the agricultural crops still in the
ground,” specifically the European and North American barley
harvests.  Rival Heineken NV forecast in February that input costs per
hectoliter would rise about 6 percent this year as malting
barley, a key ingredient, rose “substantially.”  SABMiller reported a 10 basis-point improvement in Ebita
margin to 17.9 percent for the past fiscal year. It said it
expects the cost of goods to make its beers to grow by “mid-
single digits” this year.  Cutting Costs  SABMiller said its so-called business capability program,
which aims to save money by centralizing purchases of raw
materials and services, “exceeded expectations.” It increased
its forecasts for savings from the program for this fiscal year
and next, which could be “positive for the margin,” analysts
including  Martin Deboo  and Gideon Adler at Investec Plc in
 London  wrote in a note to clients.  Sales and Ebita on a pro-forma basis slid at Foster’s due
to “subdued” consumer sentiment and increased commercial
investment. The Australian beer market is showing a “broad
continuation of previous trends, with perhaps a slightly firmer
tone,” Mackay said today on a conference call.  SABMiller increased its dividend by 12 percent to 91 cents.
Net income rose to $4.2 billion from $2.4 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  