-- Dexia in Exclusive Talks With Sberbank to Sell Denizbank
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n ,   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-05-24T17:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/sberbank-said-to-return-with-higher-denizbank-bid.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the Franco-Belgian owner of
Turkey’s  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) , said today that it has entered into
exclusive negotiations with  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , eastern  Europe ’s
largest lender, to sell the unit.  The choice of Sberbank, controlled by the Russian central
bank, has sidelined the other bidder,  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) ,
said people familiar with the process, who earlier indicated
Sberbank and Dexia were in exclusive talks.  The Moscow-based lender may agree to pay as much as 1.5
times Denizbank’s book value, valuing the bank at about $4
billion, said one person close to the deal, who declined to be
identified as the process is private. Denizbank had a book value
of about $2.7 billion at the end of the first quarter.  At 1.5 times book value, Sberbank would pay $4.1 billion
for Denizbank. Dexia’s annual  report  in April showed Denizbank
had a carrying value at the end of last year of 2.8 billion
euros ($3.5 billion), the minimum amount Dexia needs to sell it
for to avoid taking a hit to its capital.  Sberbank’s share price extended gains today, rallying 3.6
percent to 81.57 rubles by the close in Moscow. Denizbank’s
shares plunged as much as 10 percent today before paring losses
to close down 0.3 percent at 17.75 liras in Istanbul.  Sberbank is seeking growth opportunities outside of the
former  Soviet Union  as some western European lenders sell their
subsidiaries in eastern Europe and Turkey to comply with capital
rules or state aid conditions. It acquired most of
Oesterreichische Volksbanken’s eastern European business for 505
million euros ($635 million) in February as a platform for
expanding in the region.  ‘A Key Player’  “The bank’s strategy is to become a key player in Central
and Eastern Europe and to grow in Asia and to become less
dependent on Russia,” Leonid Slipchenko, banking analyst at
UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said by phone. “Their target
is to generate up to 10 percent of their revenues from
international banking by 2013.”  Dexia, based in Paris and Brussels, put Denizbank up for
sale as part of a rescue plan imposed by the French and Belgian
governments when the debt crisis eroded its ability to obtain
funding. The sale came amid decisions by lenders including
Deutsche Bank AG and France’s  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  to shed more
than $1 trillion in assets, loan portfolios and entire units to
raise cash, according to Bloomberg data, creating a surge in
available banking assets.  Sberbank and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  had previously dropped out
of the Denizbank process, saying the price was too high.  Akbank Stake  Citigroup Inc. is selling a stake in Turkey’s  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) 
worth about $1.27 billion, according to terms of the offer
obtained by Bloomberg News. The U.S. bank is offering 404
million shares in Akbank to investors at a guide price of 5.20
liras to 5.50 liras apiece, the terms showed.  “Akbank at 1.1 times book value looks pretty cheap and is
a reasonable proxy on an economy growing this year at 3.5 to 4
percent,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of Turkish and Russian stocks
at CF Global Trading in  London , wrote in e-mailed comments.
While Sberbank is expected to pay 1.5 times book value for
Denizbank, the latter may be an inferior asset to Akbank, Rimmer
said.  Other Russian banks are also expanding abroad. VTB Capital
Plc, an investment banking unit of  Russia ’s second largest
lender, has expanded overseas by opening new offices in  New York 
and Bulgaria this year. Renaissance Capital Ltd., a brokerage
half owned by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , bought Turkish
brokerage Mira Menkul Degerler AS in November.  Sberbank is being advised by Deutsche Bank AG, Rothschild
and Troika Diolog, while Dexia’s adviser is Bank of America
Corp., people familiar with the process said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  