-- SEC Staff Ends Probe of Lehman Without Finding Fraud
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-05-25T03:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/sec-staff-said-to-end-lehman-probe-without-recommending-action.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigators have concluded their probe of possible
financial fraud at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. without
recommending enforcement action against the firm or its former
executives, according to an excerpt of an internal agency memo.  Lawmakers and investors have pressed the agency for more
than three years to determine whether Lehman misrepresented its
financial health before filing the biggest bankruptcy in U.S.
history in September 2008.  Under a heading reading “Activity in Last Four Weeks,”
the undated document reads, “The staff has concluded its
investigation and determined that charges will likely not be
recommended.”  SEC officials didn’t dispute the authenticity of the memo
or its contents.  Pressure on the agency to punish any wrongdoing related to
Lehman’s collapse escalated after Anton Valukas, the court-
appointed bankruptcy examiner, found the firm misled investors
with “accounting gimmicks” that disguised its leverage.  Senior SEC officials have been reluctant to formally close
the matter even though investigators found a lack of evidence of
wrongdoing, according to people with direct knowledge of the
matter. The officials have weighed issuing a public report on
their findings that would stop short of an enforcement action
while highlighting the firm’s questionable conduct.  Under Analysis  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said the case was still “under
investigation and analysis” when she testified at a
congressional hearing last month.  “Our staff has conducted an independent and extremely
extensive investigation of all these issues,” Schapiro said in
the April 25 hearing before the House Financial Services
Committee. “They have searched through millions of pages of
documents. We have taken testimony of all the key people
including members of Lehman senior management, outside
accountants.”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said the case remains under
review.  “As the chairman said, it’s still under review and no
final decision has been made,” Nester said in an e-mail.  Repos Questioned  In a 2010 report, Valukas said Lehman used transactions
known as Repo 105s to hide billions of dollars in assets and
artificially reduce the firm’s leverage. In a typical repo
agreement, one party temporarily transfers a security to another
as collateral for short-term cash. A Repo 105 transaction
requires extra collateral, making it a more costly form of
borrowing. Those deals were accounted for by Lehman as
“sales,” as opposed to financing transactions, Valukas said.  After Valukas released his findings, the SEC sent letters
to financial firms asking for information on their use of repos.
While investigators found that Lehman’s accounting of the
transactions was in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, or GAAP, the people said, regulators have
since changed the rules to keep other firms from doing the same.  “The SEC would have to prove that the accounting wasn’t
correct under GAAP, and sometimes that’s subjective,” said
Joseph Dever, a former SEC attorney who is now at law firm Cozen
O’Connor in  New York . “When you have a subjective analysis like
that, it’s hard to prove to a judge or jury that they
intentionally got the numbers wrong.”  ‘Grossly Negligent’  According to Valukas, Lehman’s former Chief Executive
Officer Richard Fuld was “at least grossly negligent” for
letting Lehman file financial reports that distorted the firm’s
risks.  Fuld didn’t structure or negotiate the Repo 105s, nor was
he aware of the accounting treatment, his lawyer, Patricia Hynes
of Allen & Overy LP, said in a statement after Valukas’s report
was released. Hynes didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  According to the internal memo, SEC staff investigated
whether Lehman and its officers misrepresented the firm’s
financial health, capital situation, liquidity and its
commercial real estate portfolio.  In its final year, Lehman overvalued real-estate holdings,
including a stake in U.S. apartment developer Archstone-Smith
Trust, Valukas said. Lehman and Tishman Speyer Properties LP
completed a joint acquisition of Archstone for $22 billion,
including debt, in October 2007.  Lehman presented “unreasonable” valuations of its
Archstone stake in the first three quarters of 2008, overvaluing
the holding by as much as $450 million in the second quarter,
Valukas said.  Lehman agreed to buy the rest of Archstone for almost $1.6
billion from Bank of America Corp. and Barclays Plc, ending a
dispute with the banks over the price, a person familiar with
the deal said. Lehman had been trying to stop the lenders from
concluding an option to sell to  Sam Zell ’s Equity Residential.  The defunct investment bank has said it plans later to sell
Archstone, its biggest real estate asset, to help pay creditors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  