-- Senator Introduces Bill for Standard College-Aid Letters
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-05-24T21:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/senator-introduces-bill-for-standard-college-aid-letters.html
U.S. Senator  Al Franken  and eight co-
sponsors introduced a bill that would require colleges to use a
standard format for financial-aid award letters so students and
parents can more easily compare packages from different schools.  The legislation, “Understanding the True Cost of College
Act,” introduced today, will help families compare financial
aid offerings and differentiate between grant aid and  student
loans , Franken, a Democrat from Minnesota, said in a  statement .  Colleges send letters to students they’ve accepted
outlining costs, scholarships as well as loan information. The
letters are often confusing and fail to differentiate clearly
between awards and the money a student might need to borrow to
cover tuition and other expenses. There is no federal
requirement to disclose  interest rates  or total loan payments as
there are for other types of loans such as mortgages.  The bill would establish information that must be included
such as the cost of attendance, the net amount a student is
responsible for paying after subtracting grant aid, expected
federal loan monthly repayment amounts and disclosures related
to private loans, according to the statement.  The co-sponsors include Democrats Tom Harkin of Iowa,
Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Chuck Schumer of New York,
Barbara Mikulski and Ben Cardin of Maryland, Tim Johnson of
South Dakota and Ron Wyden of Oregon. Republican Charles Grassley of Iowa is also a co-sponsor.  Yesterday, a group of financial-aid administrators released
recommendations to make award letters less confusing. The
National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators is
opposed to the standardized letter and prefers to give colleges
the flexibility to design their own correspondence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York    jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 