-- Senate Panel Backs Defense Bill Keeping With Obama Budget
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-05-25T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/senate-panel-backs-defense-bill-keeping-with-obama-budget.html
The U.S. Senate Armed Services
Committee paved the way for a congressional fight over defense
spending, approving a measure that stayed within President
 Barack Obama ’s request after the House passed a bill to spend
about $4 billion more.  The Democratic-led Senate panel voted yesterday to
authorize a $631.4 billion spending package for the Pentagon,
fighting wars and defense-related programs, Senator  Carl Levin ,
the Michigan Democrat who heads the committee, told reporters.  “The bill was reported out by unanimous vote, again
showing that the Armed Services Committee may be the last
bastion of bipartisanship remaining in this Congress of the
 United States ,” said Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the
panel’s top Republican.  The measure may face more opposition when it goes to the
Senate floor. The costlier version the House passed last week is
needed to prevent Obama’s defense strategy from becoming “a
paper tiger,”  House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, a  California  Republican, has said.  The Senate bill includes the basic  defense budget , war
spending, defense activities in the  Department of Energy  and
military construction, according to a panel summary. It compares
with $635.2 billion in the House measure.  The Senate measure seeks to curb cost overruns and poor
performance on weapons programs by prohibiting so-called cost-
plus production contracts and requiring the Pentagon to ensure
that payments to contractors are more closely tied to
performance.  Automatic Cuts  The committee directs the Pentagon to specify by Aug. 15
the effects of $500 billion in automatic cuts to the defense
budget over a decade resulting from failed negotiations to
reduce the nation’s deficit. The Pentagon has said it hasn’t
been planning for those cuts, which are scheduled to take effect
in January unless Obama and Congress act to avert them.  After the committee measure is acted on by the full Senate,
it must be reconciled with the House version. The negotiations
may extend well beyond the bill’s mid-August deadline for the
Pentagon to report on the budget cuts known as sequestration.  The panel endorsed the Pentagon’s request to buy 29 F-35
stealth jets made by Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  The Pentagon requested $9.1 billion for the F-35, its most
expensive program, including $6.1 billion for procurement.  The Senate defense committee also backed the multiyear
production of 10 DDG-51 Navy destroyers made jointly by  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc.  The panel also authorized $153 million for the Special
Operations Command to buy high-definition intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance technology for its drones and
piloted aircraft.  Second Submarine  The committee followed the lead of its House counterpart
and added more than $700 million as a down payment on a second
Virginia-class submarine. Construction would start in fiscal
2014. The Virginia-class submarine is built by  Huntington
Ingalls (HII) , based in  Newport News ,  Virginia , and the Electric Boat
unit of  Falls Church , Virginia-based General Dynamics.  Like the House, the Senate panel rejected Army plans to
suspend production of upgraded Abrams tanks built by General
Dynamics.  The Senate committee’s prohibition of cost-plus contracts
for major weapons production and the review of payment levels
are its latest efforts at acquisition reform. Cost-plus
contracts require the Pentagon and military services to absorb
most of an overrun. They are used more commonly in research and
development contracts than during production.  Rebuff to Pakistan  Lawmakers also signaled their dissatisfaction with
Pakistan’s government.  They included a provision barring U.S. funds for Pakistan’s
armed forces unless the Pentagon certified that its government
was keeping supply lines open, doesn’t support extremist groups
such as the Haqqani network and isn’t detaining citizens such as
a doctor who was convicted of treason after aiding the U.S.
effort that tracked down  Osama bin Laden , according to McCain.  The Senate committee authorized about $88.2 billion in war
operations, mostly for the conflict in Afghanistan, according to
a committee summary.  The committee agreed with the House on ending funding for
the multinational missile-defense program known as the Medium
Extended Air Defense System, according to a Senate aide, who
spoke on condition of anonymity before all of the bill
provisions were made public. The administration had requested a
final $400 million for the program.  The committee disagreed with the House and didn’t mandate
construction of an East Coast missile-defense site, the aide
said. The U.S. currently has interceptor silos in Alaska and
California.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  