-- Serbia Must Form a Government Quickly, President-Elect Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-05-24T15:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/serbia-must-form-a-government-quickly-president-elect-says-1-.html
Serbia  must form a government quickly
because its finances are in “horrible” shape as the Balkan
nation tries to stay on the path toward European Union
membership, President-elect  Tomislav Nikolic  said.  Nikolic, who won a May 20 presidential election against
incumbent  Boris Tadic , said he will give someone from his
Progressive Party the mandate of prime minister to try to form a
government. If they aren’t successful, he will offer the mandate
to another party, he said.  “Serbia’s finances are horrible and we must form a
government quickly,” he told a meeting of his party in the
capital Belgrade today. “We have no time to waste.”  Elections on May 6 were inconclusive with neither Nikolic’s
or Tadic’s parties, the two biggest voter getters, winning a
majority. The deepening of the former Yugoslav republic’s
stalemate pushed the dinar to record lows on concern the delay
will halt progress on spending cuts and the renewal of the
country’s $1.3 billion international bailout loan.  Dinar Weakness  The dinar lost as much as 0.8 percent from yesterday’s
official close to touch 116.212 per euro, rebounding to trade at
115.8526 at the 5:20 p.m. in Belgrade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank said on its website that
it sold 20 million euros ($25 million) to support the dinar
today.  The next Cabinet must revise the budget to reduce the
fiscal gap to 4.25 percent from 6 percent of economic output,
persuading the  International Monetary Fund  of its commitment to
maintaining macroeconomic stability and allowing for the
continuation of a precautionary loan after talks were suspended
in February because of a widening deficit.  Public debt is already higher than Serbia’s own fiscal rule
that caps debt at 45 percent of gross domestic product.  Whoever emerges to lead Serbia’s government will need to
mix a leaner budget with more public investment to jump-start
the economy, which contracted 1.3 percent in the first three
months, and keep a lid on unemployment, at 24.4 percent in 2011.
They will also have to keep the Balkan nation’s goal of EU entry
moving forward after Tadic led the country to gaining candidate
status on March 1.  ‘Challenging’ Task  Serbia’s new government will have to focus on measures to
bring the debt and deficits to sustainable levels, “a task that
may be challenging amid an extremely rapid weakening of the
dinar,” which will ultimately start affecting inflation, at a
30-year low of 2.7 percent in April, Hasan Hanic, the head of
the Belgrade Banking Academy, told reporters today.  Nikolic’s Progressive Party won 73 seats in the 250-seat
legislature during May 6 elections, giving it control of about
94 lawmakers in a pact with the anti-European Union party of
former Premier Vojislav Kostunica. Tadic’s  Democratic Party ,
which ended in second place, controls 111 seats in an alliance
with the third-place Socialist Party. A coalition needs 126
seats to gain approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  