-- Shaquille O’Neal Won’t Pursue Magic’s General Manager Vacancy
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-24T20:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/shaquille-o-neal-might-join-magic-s-front-office-espn-reports.html
Shaquille O’Neal  said while he was
intrigued by the Orlando Magic’s general manager vacancy, he’s
not interested in pursuing the job.  O’Neal, 40, issued a statement today after ESPN reported
that the four-time National Basketball Association champion
could meet with Magic officials as soon as next week about
joining the team’s front office.  O’Neal, who spent his first four seasons with the Magic
after being taken with the No. 1 draft pick in 1992, has worked
as an NBA analyst for  Turner Sports  since retiring in 2011
following a 19-year playing career.  “When I first heard about the vacancy for the Orlando
Magic general manager position, I was clearly intrigued,”
O’Neal, a 15-time All-Star and two-time scoring champion, said
in a statement on NBA.com. “I was drafted by the Magic. I have
a great love for the franchise, and I have made  Orlando  my home.
However, this is not a job I have an interest in pursuing.”  The Magic fired General Manager Otis Smith and coach Stan Van Gundy two days ago following a season that included a trade
request by All-Star center  Dwight Howard  and a second straight
loss in the first round of the playoffs. Magic President Alex Martins said at the time he wanted to hire a new general manager
before the June 28 NBA draft.  ESPN said O’Neal’s presence with the Magic could help the
team retain Howard, who requested a trade during the preseason
and then agreed to stay with the team at the trading deadline.  “I feel very fortunate to be with TNT and to have the best
job in sports,” said O’Neal, adding that he looks forward to
many more years working with on-air partners  Charles Barkley ,
Kenny Smith and Ernie Johnson. “I wish the best for the Magic
and I am confident that they will select a great GM and coach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  