-- Silver Lake to Buy Equistone’s Global Blue for $1.3 Billion
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-05-24T13:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/silver-lake-to-buy-global-blue-from-equistone-for-1-3-billion.html
Silver Lake Management LLC, the
largest technology-focused buyout firm, agreed to buy shopping-
refund payment handler Global Blue from Equistone Partners
 Europe , its European private equity owner.  The transaction values the Nyon, Switzerland-based company,
which specializes in sales-tax refunds for tourists who buy
 luxury goods  while abroad, at 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion),
Equistone said in an e-mailed statement today.  Partners Group
Holding AG (PGHN) , a Swiss asset manager, will take a minority stake,
Silver Lake said in a separate statement.  “We are in a good position to take advantage of the long-
term growth trends in both international travel and spending on
luxury goods under new ownership,” Per Setterberg, chief
executive officer of Global Blue, said in the statement.
“Silver Lake and Partners Group’s impressive Asian footprints
will also bolster Global Blue’s expansion initiatives in that
important region.”  Equistone, which was spun off from Barclays Plc last year,
bought Global Blue in 2007 for 360 million euros. Since then,
the company has doubled its revenue and increased earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to about
97 million euros from about 35 million euros, according to
Equistone.  Computerized Refunds  The new owners will back the company’s plan to further
computerize the process of tax refunds at airports,  Silver Lake 
Managing Director Christian Lucas said in an interview.  “As digitization of the business progresses, Silver Lake
also sees potential to provide business-intelligence analytics
to both merchants and international travelers to facilitate
duty-free shopping,” Lucas said.  The buyers have hired Royal Bank of Canada, JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and Natixis to arrange debt financing for the buyout of
Global Blue, according to three people with knowledge of the
matter. The debt package will help fund less than half the total
acquisition price.  Equistone invests in mid-sized companies and operates from
offices in Paris,  Germany , Switzerland and the U.K. Advisers to
the firm included JPMorgan and Evercore Partners, it said.
Silver Lake, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , is seeking to
raise as much as $10 billion for its next buyout fund, according
to a marketing document obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  