-- Soccer Approves Goal-Line Technology After High-Profile Mistakes
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-07-05T23:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/soccer-goal-line-technology-to-be-tested-in-english-game-in-june.html
Goal-line technology may be used in
major soccer competitions as soon as December after the sport’s
rule-making body sanctioned its introduction following high-
profile errors at the  World Cup  and the European Championship.  The International Football Association Board yesterday
unanimously approved allowing the Hawk-Eye and GoalRef systems,
which use technology to tell whether the ball has crossed the
goal line. The  systems  will aid officials, who will still base
their rulings on what they see on the field.  “Over the past few years, there have been a number of
occasions where mistakes have clearly occurred in football,”
Scottish Football Association Chief Executive Officer Stewart
Regan, an IFAB member, said yesterday at a news conference in
Zurich. “Anything that assists the referee to make correct
decisions is good. This is a historic day for football because
we now have the technology to assist the referee.”  It’s planned that the systems will begin at the Club World
Cup in  Japan  in December. They’ll also be used at the 2013
Confederations Cup and 2014 World Cup tournaments in  Brazil .
National associations can decide on whether, and how, they
implement the systems.  “The only ability to score points in this sport is when
the ball crosses the line,” said the IFAB’s Alex Horne, general
secretary of  England ’s Football Association. “There are very
few occasions where the ball crosses the line and we believe the
ability to help the referee is entirely appropriate.”  Goal-Line Only  The technology will only be used to determine where the
ball has crossed the goal line and not extend to other parts of
the field, for example in deciding offsides.  “We do not believe that it is appropriate for technology
to creep out on the field and interfere with decisions,” Horne
added. “We are deliberately drawing a line. The goal-line is
where it stops.”  The ultimate decision will remain with the referee.  “Neither system is infallible,” Football Association of
 Wales  Chief Executive Jonathan Ford said. “They are systems to
aid the referee. The decision of the referee has to be final.”  The IFAB sets the rules for the game, with the U.K.’s four
so-called home nations -- England, Wales,  Scotland  and  Northern
Ireland  -- each having a vote, while the sport’s governing body,
FIFA, has four.  A disallowed goal by England’s  Frank Lampard  against
 Germany  at the 2010 World Cup pushed FIFA President Sepp Blatter
to re-examine the issue, two years after the sport’s rule makers
decided not to pursue the technology. FIFA had been criticized
by fans, players and match officials over its failure to adopt
video or computerized ways of monitoring the ball’s flight.  Blatter Support  Blatter increased his support for the new technology after
Ukraine was denied a goal against England last month in their
Euro 2012 group match.  An assistant referee patrolling the goal line about eight
yards (7 meters) away didn’t award a goal. Tournament organizer
UEFA, whose president  Michel Platini  has lobbied against the
introduction of goal-line technology to assist in such matters,
used an extra official at each end of the field for the first
time at the four-yearly championship. The IFAB also approved the
continuance of this practice.  “We opened discussion after what happened in World Cup
2010,” FIFA Secretary General Jerome Valcke said. “We have the
feeling that we can be confident to look at the future with
these systems.”  Premier League  England’s Premier League welcomed the IFAB decision and
said it hoped to introduce goal-line technology “as soon as is
practically possible.” It could be brought in during the second
half of the 2012-13 season, Horne said.  The Hawk-Eye system uses high-speed cameras placed around
the stadium to track the flight of the ball and sends an
electronic message to the officials when it crosses the goal
line. The GoalRef system uses three magnetic strips inside the
ball which trigger sensors on the goalposts and crossbar if it
crosses the line.  Valcke said it would cost between $150,000 and $250,000 to
implement the systems in stadia and that costs would come down
as more companies develop the technology.  In the U.S., replays are used more widely in the  National
Football League , where coaches can challenge decisions including
the validity of a score or whether a receiver catches the ball
in bounds.  U.S. Use  Since October 2008, National Basketball Association
referees have been able to use replays to decide whether a field
goal was for two or three points, or whether a shooter was
fouled beyond the 3-point arc. They can also use video to
determine if a 24-second shot clock violation occurs prior to a
field goal or foul. Before that, officials used video to review
buzzer-beating scores.  National Hockey League officials can watch replays to
determine the legality of goals.  Sports such as rugby, cricket and tennis have also turned
to video evidence to ensure decisions are correct, with players
able to challenge line calls in tennis via the Hawk-Eye system.  “The notion of the referee controlling the game is
universal,” Horne said. “All we’re doing here is adding an
assistance to let him do his job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  