-- Sony Said to Pay Cinemas for 3-D Glasses for ‘Men in Black’ Film
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-25T01:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/sony-pays-cinemas-for-3-d-glasses-for-men-in-black-film-1-.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , retreating from a fight
with major U.S. cinemas, is footing the bill for 3-D glasses
ahead of today’s opening of the film “Men in Black 3,” a
person with knowledge of the situation said.  The payments by Culver City, California-based Sony Pictures
don’t resolve the issue of who will pay in the future, said the
person, who declined to comment publicly on the matter.  “Without affecting consumer access to our upcoming 3-D
pictures, we continue discussing this matter with the exhibition
community while working towards a long-term solution that
addresses our concerns about embracing a more sustainable
eyewear model,” Sony said in an e-mailed statement. “Our
position has not changed: it is not our intent to indefinitely
subsidize 3-D eyewear.”  “Men in Black,” starring Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones,
is Sony’s first big summer release and will be followed by the
studio’s 3-D feature “The Amazing Spider-Man” on July 3. The
conflict over 3-D glasses began in September, when Sony said it
would stop paying for the glasses starting with “Men in
Black.”  Officials at  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) ,  AMC Entertainment
Holdings Inc. (AMC)  and  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK) , the largest U.S.
theater chains, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  When 3-D arrived, major cinemas agreed to pay a 50-cents-
per-ticket fee to  RealD Inc. (RLD) , their technology supplier, while
studios would foot the 40-cent tab for glasses, Eric Wold, a B.
Riley & Co. analyst in San Francisco, said last week.  Sony fell as much as 4.4 percent to 1,056 yen, the lowest
since August 1980, and traded at 1,073 yen as of 10:28 a.m. in
Tokyo. Regal Entertainment Group, the largest U.S. movie
exhibitor, fell 0.3 percent to $14.33 in New York yesterday,
while Cinemark gained 1.1 percent to $23.70.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  