-- South Africa’s Central Bank Keeps Lending Rate Unchanged
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-05-24T15:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/south-africa-s-central-bank-keeps-lending-rate-unchanged.html
South Africa ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a record 18 months to help
support the economy while keeping price pressures in check.  The benchmark rate was left at 5.5 percent, Governor Gill Marcus told reporters today in  Pretoria , the capital. That was
in line with the estimates of all 18 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  The central bank has kept the  repurchase rate  at the lowest
level in more than 30 years since November 2010 to support the
economy’s recovery as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsened. With
inflation staying close to the top of the 3 percent to 6 percent
target range, the central bank has limited room to follow policy
makers in  Brazil ,  India  and  Australia  in reducing borrowing
costs.  There was a “more dovish undertone” in the statement
“given the uncertainties that emerged on the global growth risk
and the poor performance of the local growth, and the fact that
they moderated the inflation outlook,” Gina Schoeman, an
economist at  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , said in a telephone interview from
Johannesburg.  Rate Cut Expectations  Inflation accelerated to 6.1 percent last month from 6
percent in March, the statistics agency said yesterday. The
inflation rate probably peaked in the first quarter at an
average of 6.1 percent and will probably slow to within the
target band after the second quarter, Marcus said. In March, the
MPC had forecast a 6.5 percent peak in inflation in the second
quarter.  Traders are positioning for a rate cut later this year. The
yield on forward-rate agreements due in as soon as three months
dropped 8 basis points after the decision, widening the yield
gap with the three-month Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate to
the most since November. As recently as March 20, the contract
for December implied a rate increase of 50 basis points.  “It is a very difficult situation,” Marcus said today.
“We are considering all factors. We could move in either
direction.”  Inflation will probably average about 6 percent this year
and 5.5 percent next year, before easing to 5 percent in 2014,
Marcus said.  Growth Forecasts  The rand, which has weakened along with other emerging-
market currencies in the face of slower global growth, poses an
upside risk to inflation, Marcus said. The rand gained 0.6
percent to 8.337 per dollar at 4:52 p.m. in Johannesburg,
trimming its decline this year to 3 percent.  Low  interest rates  may help to support the economy as the
debt crisis in Europe worsens, undermining the global recovery.
The MPC today reduced its economic growth forecast for this year
to 2.9 percent from 3 percent. The  economy  will probably expand
3.9 percent next year and 4.1 percent in 2014, Marcus said.  “The greater uncertainty in Europe and associated global
financial market turbulence has impacted on the perceived risks
to the outlook for both domestic inflation and growth,” Marcus
said. “The Monetary Policy Committee is of the view that these
developments pose a downside risk to the hesitant domestic
growth prospects.”  Manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
unexpectedly contracted 2.7 percent in March, while the retail
industry, the fastest-growing sector last year, shrank 1.2
percent in the first quarter, the statistics office said on May
16. South Africa’s  jobless rate  rose to 25.2 percent in the
first quarter, the highest of more than 60 nations tracked by
Bloomberg.  The economy probably expanded an annualized 2.4 percent in
the first quarter, down from 3.2 percent in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate of five economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The government will release the data on May
29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  