-- South Korea Needs Extra Measures on Capital Flows
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-05-24T00:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/south-korea-needs-extra-measures-on-capital-flows.html
South Korea  needs to fortify its
protection against volatility in flows of foreign capital as
 Europe ’s deepening sovereign-debt crisis roils financial
markets, a government policy adviser said.  “Various measures can be contemplated including some tax
for the duration of how long the money has been inside the
country,” Choi Byung Il, president of the Korea Economic
Research Institute, said in an English-language interview in
 Seoul  this week. “Too much destabilization is not good for the
economy.”  South Korea’s won approached a five-month low yesterday on
concern  Greece  will leave the euro, disrupting financial markets
and dragging down regional and global economies. European Union
leaders grappling with the region’s debt crisis have discussed
steps including jointly issuing euro bonds, with German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  reaffirming her opposition to such a
move after a summit in Brussels yesterday.  Authorities need to reduce the won’s volatility by using
their “hefty” $317 billion foreign-exchange reserves, Choi
said. The won slid 0.8 percent to 1,172.73 per dollar yesterday
in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
touched 1,175.30 on May 18, the lowest since Dec. 20.  “If the market is showing too much hysteria, the
government, they need to use their discretion because they have
bullets,” Choi said.  The Kospi index of stocks fell 1.1 percent to 1,808.62
yesterday, halting a two-day advance.  Stronger Firewall  South Korea had already moved to strengthen firewalls
following the crisis sparked by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
collapse in 2008. The country took measures including initiating
caps on banks’ holdings of foreign-exchange derivatives in 2010
and last year revived taxes on foreign investors’ bond holdings
and imposed a levy on banks’ non-deposit foreign-currency
liabilities.  South Korea is “well prepared” to resist or face any
unexpected shock stemming from global uncertainty,  Angel Gurria ,
Secretary General of the  Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development , said last month.  “Because of the unfolding crisis in euro-zone and its
repercussions through China, the Korean economy is going through
some difficulty,” Choi said, citing the nation’s heavy
dependence on international trade. He projected 3.2 percent
economic growth for the nation this year.  The Paris-based OECD said this week Europe’s debt crisis
risks seriously damaging the world economy. The organization cut
its growth forecast for South Korea this year to 3.3 percent.  South Korea may be able to temper slowing growth by adding
free-trade agreements, Choi said. It will take more than two
years for South Korea to seal a deal with  China  as Seoul wants a
comprehensive agreement on products, services and investments
with its biggest trading partner, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  