-- SpaceX Craft on Track to Dock With Space Station, NASA Says
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-05-24T14:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/spacex-craft-on-track-to-dock-with-space-station-nasa-says-1-.html
Space Exploration Technologies
Corp.’s supply ship flew about 2.5 kilometers (1.6 miles) under
the International  Space Station  and is on track to dock
tomorrow, a government official said.  “It’s been very, very successful up to this point,” Holly
Ridings, flight director at the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, said today during a news briefing at  Johnson
Space Center  in Houston,  Texas .  The company, known as SpaceX and founded by billionaire
Elon Musk, will make history if it parks its unmanned vehicle at
the station, becoming the first nongovernment entity to
accomplish the feat. After the docking, scheduled for about
11:30 a.m.  New York  time tomorrow, astronauts would open the
hatch and unload test cargo of more than 1,000 pounds of food,
clothing and lab equipment.  SpaceX launched its Falcon 9 rocket, carrying the Dragon
capsule, at 3:44 a.m. on May 22 from  Cape Canaveral , Florida, in
its second attempt to send the vehicle to the space station. It
called off a May 19 liftoff with a half second left in the
countdown because of a faulty engine valve.  “The significance of this day cannot be overstated,”  NASA 
Administrator Charles Bolden said in a media briefing at Cape
Canaveral following the launch.  “We’re handing off to the private sector our
transportation to the International Space Station so that NASA
can focus on what we do best: Exploring even deeper into our
solar system with missions to an asteroid and Mars on the
horizon,” he said.  Berthing involves “extreme precision,” Hawthorne,
California-based SpaceX said in a press release last week. Both
the ship and station will be traveling at about 17,500 miles per
hour and orbiting Earth once every 90 minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  