-- Subaru Made in Japan Defies Trend as Fuji Lifts Output
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-05-24T21:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/subaru-made-in-japan-defies-trend-as-fuji-lifts-output.html
Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270)  is making
a contrarian bet: The maker of Subaru cars is cranking up
domestic manufacturing at a time other Japanese automakers are
expanding overseas to escape the strong yen.  The carmaker said this month it plans to increase Japanese
production to account for 78 percent of output during the  fiscal
year  ending March 2013, compared with 73 percent the previous
year. Fuji Heavy said that expanding capacity in  Japan  --instead
of the U.S., its biggest market -- is cheaper.  “A large-scale expansion in the U.S., where we build new
factory buildings and such, will cost a lot,” Chief Financial
Officer Mitsuru Takahashi said in a May 18 interview in Tokyo.
“We’re not like Toyota, Honda or Nissan, so it’s not
appropriate for us to make sudden, big investments.”  The decision makes Fuji Heavy the nation’s only carmaker to
disclose plans to increase its proportion of Japanese output,
raising its vulnerability to a currency that has risen 40
percent in the past four years and forced competitors to build
factories overseas. While the weakening of the yen this year has
helped Fuji Heavy shares rally more than other automakers, some
investors say the company is taking on unnecessary risk.  “What matters most for carmakers is localizing production
where demand is,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive officer
at Fukoku Capital Management Inc. in Tokyo, which manages $7.3
billion of assets. “I don’t expect the yen to weaken much
anytime soon and their relatively low level of localization will
have an impact on their shares sooner or later.”  Domestic Production  Fuji Heavy, which already makes a bigger proportion of its
vehicles at home than any other Japanese automaker, said it will
increase domestic production 28 percent to 598,000 units in the
year ending March 2013. In the U.S., the Tokyo-based automaker
will cut output at its plant in  Indiana  by 1 percent to 169,000,
according to the company.  Among Japan’s automakers,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  plans to
maintain production of 3 million vehicles in Japan and recently
announced plans to increase production in Indonesia, Russia and
the U.S.  Nissan Motor Co., whose Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  referred to the yen as a “one-thousand-pound gorilla”
that’s unpredictable, has said it plans to maintain domestic
output of 1 million cars and expand in  Mexico ,  Brazil  and
Southeast Asian countries.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  plans to expand
production in  Southeast Asia  and  North America , its biggest
market, the company has said.  Yen Strength  While the yen has weakened 2 percent in the past six months
against the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, it still remains about 40 percent
higher than before the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  For Fuji Heavy, every yen gain against the dollar reduces
operating profit by 6.5 billion yen ($82 million), and 400
million yen (4 million euro) versus the euro, according to Fusao
Watanabe, a company spokesman.  “I can fully understand their thinking to stay in Japan,
risk the inevitable exchange-rate fluctuations -- you can lose,
but you can also win -- and leverage the various advantages they
can find to exploit around the Japanese base,” said John Shook,
chairman and chief executive officer of Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Lean Enterprise Institute and a former
Toyota engineer.  Building a new factory in the U.S. will cost at least $1
billion, according to Shook and  Maryann Keller , principal of a
self-named consulting company in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Still, meeting an increase in overseas demand through
exports will put pressure on operating  profit margins  that trail
the  industry’s average .  Profit Margins  Fuji Heavy’s  operating margin  of 2.9 percent compares with
the 3.8 percent industry average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Nissan, the Japanese automaker with the highest share
of production  overseas , had a margin of 5.8 percent.  Fuji Heavy on May 8 forecast a 25 percent jump in profit as
it targets record sales of its four-wheel drive Subaru vehicles
this year on rising demand in the U.S. and  China . The stock
climbed the most in more than eight months that day and has
risen 32 percent this year.  Driving profit growth is demand in the U.S., where Subaru
was named this year’s top automaker in Consumer Reports
magazine’s annual rankings, earning its score of 75 out of 100
points for building “dependable, all-wheel-drive vehicles with
simple interiors.”  Fuji Heavy had to adjust its production plans after failing
to receive government approval from China to build cars in the
country. It’s the only Japanese carmaker besides  Daihatsu Motor
Co. (7262)  without a vehicle-making venture in the world’s largest auto
market.  Blocked by China  China isn’t approving Fuji Heavy’s proposal because it
considers the company to be part of Toyota, which owns a 16
percent stake and already has the maximum of two Chinese
partners, three people familiar with the matter said last year.  A 25 percent import duty makes Subaru cars more expensive
than locally built cars. Fuji Heavy will have to continue
shipping cars and sport-utility vehicles.  “With the high  import tariff  and the strong yen, the
competitiveness of Subaru-branded vehicles has dropped compared
to their locally assembled competitors,” Marvin Zhu, a
Shanghai-based analyst at researcher LMC Automotive, wrote in a
report this month. “If the joint venture had been approved,
Subaru would have greatly reduced cost and expanded its market
share.”  Sales of the Forester SUV, Fuji Heavy’s best-selling model
in China, dropped 16 percent to 31,000 units last year.
Deliveries of the Legacy sedans gained 30 percent.  U.S. Expansion  Fuji Heavy needs to expand U.S. production as soon as
possible to reduce the yen’s impact and help meet growing
demand, said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million
at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in  Tokyo .  “If they aren’t going to do much in the U.S., that may be
the same as not doing anything, since they aren’t doing anything
in China either,” he said.  Fuji Heavy can increase current production at its U.S.
plant to 200,000 units a year without substantial investment,
Takahashi said.  A weaker yen may lessen the need to expand in the U.S.  “I’m hoping for the yen to further weaken, and I’m hoping
that five to 10 years down the road it will be weaker,” he
said.  -- Editors: Chua Kong Ho, Young-Sam Cho, John Brecher  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  