-- Sunovion Settles Patent Dispute With Mylan Over Brovana
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-24T23:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/sunovion-settles-patent-dispute-with-mylan-over-brovana.html
Mylan Inc. settled a patent dispute
with Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc. over the bronchitis and
emphysema drug Brovana less than a week before a trial was set
to begin.  Sunovion, based in Marlborough,  Massachusetts , acknowledged
that Brovana infringed two patents owned by Mylan, according to
an order filed today by U.S. District Judge  John Koeltl  in
 Manhattan . The companies have entered into a licensing agreement
as part of the settlement. Other terms of the agreement weren’t
disclosed.  “Sunovion acknowledges that its making, using, offering to
sell and selling of Brovana infringes asserted claims” of the
two Mylan patents, according to the order.  Koeltl on March 1 invalidated five of the seven patents
that Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan said were infringed
and limited damages that could be assessed on the other two
patents. A  jury trial  scheduled to begin May 21 was put off
until May 29. The two Mylan patents expire in June 2021.  Mylan’s Dey unit sued Sunovion’s predecessor company in
2007 to block the introduction of  Brovana,  which Dey said
infringed a patent for a spray to open bronchial passages. Other
patents were later added to the suit.  Brovana, which uses a variant of the compound formoterol,
treats the condition formally known as chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease. Dey sells Perforomist to treat the disease.  ‘Remain Confident’  “We are pleased with this settlement and remain confident
in the intellectual property protecting Perforomist, as well as
our combination product for the treatment of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, currently in development,” Heather Bresch,
Mylan’s chief executive officer, said in a statement today.  Patricia Moriarty, a spokeswoman for Sunovion, didn’t
immediately return messages seeking comment on the settlement.  Mylan said in its statement that it will appeal the judge’s
ruling on the other patents.  Mylan rose 39 cents, or 1.87 percent, to $21.28 in Nasdaq
Stock Market  trading .  Sunovion is a unit of  Osaka , Japan-based Dainippon Sumitomo
Pharma Co. Ltd., which climbed 15 yen, or 2.1 percent, to 747
yen in Tokyo Stock Market trading.  The case is Dey v. Sepracor, 1:07-cv-02353, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at ‘  mhytha @bloomberg.net. 