-- Swiss Stocks Advance for Third Day in Four; Banks Rally
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-24T15:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/swiss-stocks-advance-for-third-day-in-four-banks-rally.html
Stocks in Switzerland  advanced,
rebounding from yesterday’s biggest drop in a month for the
benchmark Swiss Market Index, as a rally by bank stocks
outweighed declines by watchmakers.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  climbed more than 1.5
percent, following a gauge of European lenders higher.  Swatch
Group AG (UHR)  and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA dropped more than 1
percent as growth in Swiss watch exports slowed.  The SMI gained 0.6 percent to 5,852.44 at the close in
Zurich. The gauge  has retreated  7.7 percent from this year’s
high on March 16 amid concern  Greece  may fail to implement
austerity measures and leave the euro currency union. The Swiss
Performance Index also rose 0.6 percent today.  “European markets are rebounding, supported by a short
squeeze, especially on banking shares,” said John Plassard,
director at Louis Capital Markets SA in Geneva. “This technical
rebound we’re seeing right now may be short-lived, however.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 9.6 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  European Union leaders met in Brussels yesterday and gave
EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  the job of sketching out
“building blocks” for a more integrated euro area by the next
summit on June 28-29 -- after a Greek election on June 17 that
may trigger the country’s withdrawal from the currency.  Euro Bonds  The leaders clashed over joint debt sales as they called on
Greece to stick with the budget cuts needed to stay in the euro.  “We had a not unheated discussion on euro bonds,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the
group of euro-area finance ministers, said after talks in
Brussels.  Swiss exports fell in April, adding to signs the franc’s
strength has curbed foreign sales. Exports adjusted for
inflation and working days decreased 0.9 percent from March,
when they dropped a revised 2.4 percent, the Federal Customs
Office in Bern said today. Imports gained 2.6 percent and the
 trade surplus  narrowed to 1.33 billion Swiss francs ($1.39
billion).  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that
orders for computers, machinery and other capital equipment
dropped in April for a second month, pointing to a slowdown in
U.S. business investment.  U.S. Durable Goods  Bookings for non-military goods  excluding aircraft
decreased 1.9 percent after falling 2.2 percent in March, the
first back-to-back decline in a year. Demand for all  durable
goods  -- items meant to last at least three years -- rose 0.2
percent, matching the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Elsewhere, a private survey showed that  China ’s
manufacturing may shrink for a seventh month in May. The 48.7
preliminary reading for a purchasing managers’ index released by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today compared with a
final 49.3 for April.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest lender, gained 2.2 percent to
11.25 Swiss francs, while Credit Suisse,  the second biggest ,
added 1.8 percent to 19.36 francs.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  added
1.9 percent to 31.08 francs.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  advanced 3.3 percent to 86.80 francs
after HSBC raised the hearing-aid maker to overweight, the
equivalent of buy, from neutral.  Swatch, the world’s largest watchmaker, dropped 1.3 percent
to 370.70 francs, its lowest price since Jan. 11. Richemont, the
owner of the Cartier brand, declined 1.5 percent to 55.40
francs. A report showed that Swiss watch exports rose 7.9
percent in April from the same month last year, their slowest
pace in more than two years.  Ypsomed Holding AG (YPSN)  fell 4.5 percent to 54.40 francs, the
most since September 2010. The company that supplies needles and
injection pens to Sanofi reported full-year sales of 248.6
million francs compared with 261.8 million francs from a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  