-- Swiss Franc Drops to 2-Month Low Versus Euro on SNB Speculation
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-24T15:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/swiss-franc-drops-to-2-month-low-versus-euro-on-snb-speculation.html
Switzerland ’s franc depreciated to
its weakest level against the euro since March 16 amid
speculation the Swiss central bank may take action to discourage
investors from using the currency as a refuge.  There were “rumors that the  Swiss National Bank  could
introduce a tax on deposits,” said Peter Rosenstreich, chief
currency analyst at Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva. “There was
some chatter about U.S. dollar swap lines being extended and I
think that might have helped the market and unwound some short
euro positions.” A short position is a bet on weaker prices.  SNB spokeswoman Silvia Oppliger declined to comment on the
Swiss franc exchange rate. Finance Ministry spokesman Roland
Meier wouldn’t comment on the tax speculation.  The franc slid as much as 0.6 percent, its biggest intraday
decline since March 14, to 1.20766 per euro. It pared the
depreciation, trading less than 0.2 percent weaker at 1.20285
per euro, as of 4:33 p.m. London time.  Today’s move may have occurred after one bank sold the
franc against the euro, according to  Mary Nicola , a  New York- 
based currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA.  “There was speculation that it was the SNB intervening but
we think that it is just” one bank seeking to exit a trade
betting on the franc’s advance, Nicola said.  The Swiss National Bank imposed a cap of 1.20 francs per
euro in September to protect exporters as investors seeking a
haven from the  European debt crisis  drove the franc to a record
high. The currency briefly strengthened through the SNB’s
exchange-rate limit on April 5, prompting policy makers to
affirm they’re prepared to buy foreign currency in unlimited
quantities to defend the price limit.  The franc has depreciated 2.2 percent in the past year, the
third-worst performer of the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes after the
Swedish krona and the euro. The dollar gained 7.3 percent while
the euro slipped 5.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  