-- U.K. Economy Shrinks More Than Estimated on Building Slump
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-05-24T08:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/u-k-first-quarter-gdp-falls-0-3-more-than-initial-estimate.html
The  U.K. economy  shrank more than
initially estimated in the first quarter after construction was
revised to show a deeper slump, which may bolster the case for
the  Bank of England  to restart bond purchases.  Gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent, compared with a
0.2 percent decline estimated last month, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in London. Construction output
fell 4.8 percent, the most in three years and more than the 3
percent initially estimated, while services and production were
unrevised. Net trade and inventories subtracted from GDP.  The Bank of England’s decision to stop  expanding stimulus 
this month was “finely balanced,” it said yesterday, amid
growing threats from the euro-area debt crisis. With the economy
facing additional headwinds from the government’s spending cuts,
the  International Monetary Fund  said this week that the U.K.
needs more monetary easing and fiscal stimulus to stoke growth.  “If there’s a heightening of tensions in the euro crisis
in the next few months, the bank would respond,” said  Brian Hilliard , an economist at  Societe Generale  in London and a
former central bank official. “I’m expecting another GDP fall
in the second quarter and a return to growth in the third.”  The quarterly GDP decline compared with the 0.2 percent
drop that was the median forecast of 29 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. From a  year earlier , the economy shrank
0.1 percent, the first annual contraction since the fourth
quarter of 2009.  Euro-Area Crisis  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the data
were published and was down 0.3 percent at $1.5663 as of 9:38
a.m. in London. Gilts stayed higher, with the yield down 2 basis
points from yesterday at 1.756 percent.  The U.K. slump compares with 0.5 percent growth recorded in
 Germany  in the first quarter, where expansion was boosted by
exports. Still, that nation’s Ifo  business confidence index  fell
more than economists forecast in May and euro-area measures of
services and manufacturing both dropped, reports today showed.  In Brussels last night, European leaders clashed over euro
bonds at their 18th summit in more than two years of crisis
fighting as speculation mounted that  Greece  might leave the euro
area.  In the U.K., consumer-spending growth slowed to 0.1 percent
in the three months through March from 0.4 percent in the
previous quarter, the statistics office said.  Government
spending  surged 1.6 percent, the most in four years.  Fixed capital formation fell 0.3 percent, exports rose 0.1
percent and imports increased 0.4 percent. Changes in
inventories subtracted 0.7 percentage points from GDP, while net
trade subtracted 0.1 percentage points.  Cameron Pressure  The deeper slump in the first quarter may add to pressure
on Prime Minister  David Cameron , who is being attacked by the
opposition  Labour Party  over his commitment to the fiscal
squeeze at a time when Britain is in a recession. GDP has risen
0.3 percent since the second quarter of 2010, when Cameron’s
coalition government came to power, the statistics office said.  Recent data suggest the economy’s weakness has continued
into the current quarter, with an index of  manufacturing demand 
falling to the weakest level this year in May, according to the
 Confederation of British Industry . Retail sales dropped the most
in more than two years in April as record rainfall reduced
demand for clothing and fuel sales plunged.  BOE Decision  Eight of the Bank of England’s nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee voted to hold the asset-purchase target at 325 billion
pounds ($509 billion) on May 10 as the bank forecast inflation
would slow this year less quickly than it had expected.  David Miles  maintained a push for a 25 billion-pound increase.  Still, officials said the decision was “finely balanced”
for several MPC members, while Deputy Governor Charlie Bean said
more stimulus may be needed if conditions “deteriorate
significantly.”  “If the economy turns out to be significantly weaker than
forecast fiscal easing should be considered,” IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said this week in London.  Output in services, the largest part of the economy, was up
0.1 percent in the first quarter, while production fell 0.4
percent, today’s report showed. A separate report today showed
business investment rose 3.6 percent in the first quarter from
the previous three months and was up 14.2 percent from a year
earlier, the most in almost seven years. An  index of services 
increased 0.5 percent in March from February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  