-- U.S. Strike in Pakistan Kills Four Amid Tension Over NATO Routes
-- B y   A n w a r   S h a k i r
-- 2012-05-24T06:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/u-s-strike-in-pakistan-kills-four-amid-tension-over-nato-routes.html
A U.S. drone missile strike in
 Pakistan ’s tribal region killed at least four suspected
militants, the latest attack in a covert CIA campaign that has
contributed to a breakdown in ties between the two countries.  The early morning targeting of a mosque no longer used for
prayers in Mir Ali, a town in the mountainous region of North
Waziristan, also wounded four other insurgents, said
Kifayatullah Durrani, a government spokesman in  Peshawar . All
those injured or killed were foreign militants, he said. The
Associated Press reported that 10 people died in the attack,
citing intelligence officials it didn’t name.  The strike comes as Pakistan and the U.S. try to reach a
deal on reopening NATO supply routes to  Afghanistan , closed in
November after American helicopters killed 24 Pakistani soldiers
in a border clash. In a review of relations with the Obama
administration, Pakistan’s parliament demanded an end to the
drone strikes, which the country says kill civilians as well as
the militants they target.  The U.S. has carried out more than 280 drone attacks inside
Pakistan since January 2008, according to figures compiled by
the Long War Journal, a website which tracks the conflict. This
year the pilotless aircraft had attacked 14 times up to May 22,
the group’s data show.  Pilotless aircraft are used to collect intelligence and
kill members of the Taliban, al-Qaeda and allied groups in their
sanctuaries in Pakistan’s northwest and are central to the U.S.
strategy to curb militancy in the region.  Doctor Jailed  While Pakistan is seeking to resume cooperation with the
U.S., the government of Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  risks
losing support at home if it appears to “buckle in the face of
international pressure” months ahead of elections which may
take place as early as October, Sharmila Chaudhary, an analyst
at New York-based Eurasia Group wrote in an e-mailed analysis
yesterday.  Escalating tensions further, Pakistan yesterday sentenced
Shakil Afridi, a Pakistani doctor who helped the U.S. track down
 Osama bin Laden , to 33 years in jail after he was found guilty
of treason and working for a foreign intelligence agency.  “At a time when the  United States  and Pakistan need more
than ever to work constructively together, Dr. Afridi’s
continuing imprisonment and treatment as a criminal will only do
further harm to U.S.-Pakistani relations, including diminishing
Congress’s willingness to provide financial assistance to
Pakistan,”  Arizona  Republican Senator John McCain and
Democratic Senator  Carl Levin  of Michigan said in a statement
yesterday.  Pakistan relations with the U.S. soured last year amid the
killing of bin Laden on Pakistani soil, allegations by American
officials that Pakistan is aiding guerrilla attacks in
Afghanistan and the November border strike.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anwar Shakir in Peshawar at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  