-- U.S. Bank Earnings Rose 23% on Lower Reserves, FDIC Says
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-24T18:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/u-s-bank-earnings-rose-23-on-lower-reserves-fdic-says.html
U.S. banks had net income of $35.3
billion in the first quarter, increasing earnings by 23 percent
over the same period in 2011 on lower loan-loss provisions, the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  said.  Industry profits rose for an 11th consecutive quarter,
reaching the highest level since the second quarter of 2007, the
FDIC said today in its Quarterly Banking Profile. Lenders set
aside $14.3 billion for bad loans, and their $21.8 billion in
charge-offs was the lowest quarterly total in four years.   JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the two most
profitable U.S. banks last year, topped estimates for first-
quarter earnings as they benefited from the lowest net charge-
offs since the 2008 credit crisis. In today’s FDIC report,
Acting Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said industywide results were
clouded by a $56.3 billion decline in loan balances.  “Insured institutions have made steady progress in
shedding bad loans, bolstering net worth and increasing
profitability,” Gruenberg said in a statement. “The overall
decline in loan balances is disappointing after we saw three
quarters of growth last year. But we should be cautious in
drawing conclusions from just one quarter.”  The loan-balance decline was led by a seasonal $38.2
billion drop in the credit-card category that Gruenberg
attributed to holiday spending. Residential real estate fell by
$19.2 billion, according to the agency’s report.  More than two-thirds of FDIC-insured lenders reported
improvement in their quarterly net income from a year ago, and
the share reporting net losses for the three-month period fell
to 10.3 percent from 15.7 percent a year earlier.  ‘Gradually Improving’  “Mortgage refinancing and capital markets, along with a
gradually improving economy, have led to a steady growth in bank
earnings,”  James Chessen , chief economist at the  American
Bankers Association , said in a statement. “The pace of the
economy will determine how quickly banks’ core lending business
will return.”  The number of lenders on FDIC’s confidential list of
“problem” banks -- those deemed to be at greater risk of
collapse -- fell for a fourth straight quarter from 813 to 772.
There were 16  bank failures  in the first quarter, the lowest
three-month total since the end of 2008.  The deposit insurance fund, which protects customer
accounts up to $250,000 against bank failures, rose to $15.3
billion from $11.8 billion in the preceding quarter, the FDIC
said. The FDIC increased bank assessments to replenish the fund,
which fell into deficit as the agency resolved hundreds of bank
failures stemming from the subprime mortgage crisis.  Investors have pushed the 24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  up by
11 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  