-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending May 22 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-05-24T14:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-may-22-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/./   Weather Summary: For the second week in a row, beneficial
showers peppered the East.  Much-needed rain also fell across
the northern Plains and upper Midwest, although amounts were
highly variable.  In contrast, flash drought conditions quickly
worsened across the remainder of the Midwest, portions of the
central and southeastern Plains, and the Mid-South.  The term
flash drought describes a period of short-term dryness, often
accompanied by above-normal temperatures, which has an adverse
impact on crops and pastures.  Elsewhere, much of the West -
excluding the northern tier of the region - continued to slip
deeper into drought under a warm, mostly dry weather regime.  The East: Once again, appreciable rainfall from the Mid-Atlantic
States into southern  New England  chipped away at dryness (D0)
and moderate to severe drought (D1 to D2).  Despite some
lingering year-to-date rainfall deficits in locations such as
Washington, D.C., drought impacts were quickly diminishing.
Through May 22, Washington’s year-to-date precipitation stood at
9.87 inches (67% of normal). Farther south, a core region of
extreme to exceptional drought (D3 to D4) lingered across
central and southern Georgia, northern and central Florida,
southern  South Carolina , and southeastern Alabama.  On May 19,
the first Atlantic tropical storm of the season, Alberto - the
earliest named system since Andrea on May 9, 2007 - formed about
120 miles south of Cape Fear,  North Carolina .  The storm was
compact and remained offshore during its entire lifespan,
resulting in negligible impacts other than contributing to an
increase in convective activity along the southern Atlantic
Coast.  The Mid-South: Rapidly deteriorating agricultural conditions
resulted from another week of very warm, mostly dry weather.
During the week ending May 20, the portion of pastureland rated
in very poor to poor condition increased by at least 8
percentage points in  Arkansas  (from 11 to 23%) and  Missouri  (10
to 18%).  During the same 7-day period, USDA reported that the
portion of topsoil moisture rated very short to short
skyrocketed from 41 to 66% in Arkansas and 23 to 57% in
Missouri.  As a result, moderate to severe drought (D1 to D2)
expanded in an area centered on the northern Mississippi Delta
and the lower Ohio Valley.  The Midwest: For the week ending May 20, the portion of topsoil
moisture rated very short to short jumped at least 20 percentage
points in Iowa (from 9 to 44%), Indiana (15 to 43%),  Illinois 
(12 to 33%),  Michigan  (7 to 32%), and  Wisconsin  (6 to 30%).  As
a result, there was a fairly large expansion of abnormally dry
conditions (D0) across the central and eastern Corn Belt.  Hot
weather, short-term dryness, and crop demands were to blame for
the rapid depletion of topsoil moisture. On May 18, high
temperatures soared to daily-record levels in St. Cloud,
 Minnesota  (94F), and Eau Claire, Wisconsin (91F).  The following
day, May 19 featured daily-record highs in Michigan locations
such as Traverse City (92F) and Alpena (91F).  In contrast,
showers developed across the upper Midwest.  Although upper
Midwestern rainfall coverage was patchy, drought development was
arrested in some areas.  Little rain fell, however, east of a
line from southeastern  Nebraska  to Lake Superior.  The Plains: Like the Mid-South and much of the Midwest, a
continuation of warm, dry weather led to rapid deterioration in
crop and pasture conditions.  For the week ending May 20, the
portion of Montana’s rangeland and pastures rated in very poor
to poor condition jumped from 13 to 24%.  During the 2-week
period ending May 20, the portion of the Kansas winter wheat
crop rated very poor to poor doubled from 11 to 22%.  However,
shower activity began to increase across Montana, Nebraska, and
the Dakotas late in the drought monitoring period, helping to
slow the expansion of dryness (D0) and moderate drought (D1).
Farther south, warm, dry weather returned to the  Oklahoma  and
 Texas  early in the period, following the previous week’s
drought-easing rainfall.  Still, the May 1-22 rainfall of 9.84
inches (364% of normal) marked San Antonio’s highest May total
since 1993, when 12.47 inches fell.  The West: Both short- and long-term drought continued to affect
large portions of the West.  Only the northern tier of the
region, from the Pacific Northwest to the northern Rockies,
remained largely free of drought.  Worsening drought was noted
in parts of  Wyoming  and the Four Corners States.  During the
week ending May 20, the portion of Wyoming’s rangeland and
pastures rated in very poor to poor condition leaped from 18 to
33%.  More than half of the rangeland and pastures were very
poor to poor in  New Mexico  (82%),  Arizona  (69%), and  Nevada 
(51%).  Although nine of the eleven Western States have a buffer
against developing drought in the form of abundant reservoir
storage, high-elevation snow packs have largely melted out
across the southern half of the region. Reservoir storage is
below average for this time of year in Arizona and New Mexico,
compounding water-supply issues in those two states.  A new area
of extreme drought (D3) in northwestern  Colorado  is reflective
of very low water year-to-date precipitation totals in the 5th
percentile or lower at several locations.  In addition, severe
drought (D2) was expanded in several other parts of the Four
Corners States.  In recent days, several wildfires have been
active in the Southwest.  In central Arizona, both the Gladiator
(just east of Crown King) and the Sunflower fires (well north of
Mesa) have charred at least 15,000 acres of vegetation.  Hawaii, Alaska and Puerto Rico: Currently, there is neither
dryness nor drought depicted in Alaska and Puerto.  The drought
situation across Hawaii’s central and eastern islands continued
to gradually deteriorate due to unusually dry conditions since
the beginning of the late-spring and summer dry season.  On the
Big Island at Hilo, April 1 - May 22 rainfall totaled just 10.77
inches (61% of normal).  On the leeward side of the Big Island,
deterioration of pastures was reported.  Looking Ahead: During the next 5 days (May 24-28), daily showers
and thunderstorms will linger in parts of the East, particularly
across southern  Florida  and the Mid-Atlantic States.  Meanwhile,
a series of disturbances will maintain cool conditions and
periods of rain from the Pacific Northwest into the upper
Midwest.  Five-day rainfall totals could reach 2 to 4 inches in
the upper Midwest and 1 to 2 inches on the northern Plains.  In
contrast, mostly dry weather will prevail across the nation’s
southern tier, excluding southern Florida.  During the Memorial
Day weekend, heat will build across the South, East, and lower
Midwest, with many locations expecting multiple days of 90-
degree heat.  The NWS 6- to 10-day outlook for May 29 - June 2 calls for near-
to above-normal temperatures nationwide, except for cooler-than-
normal conditions from the northern Plains into the Great Lakes
region. Meanwhile, near- to below-normal rainfall across the
majority of the U.S. will contrast with wetter-than-normal
weather in the Southeastern and Atlantic Coast States.  *T --Editors: Alex Tanzi  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in  Washington  at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  