-- U.S. Human Rights Review Praises Myanmar, Deplores Syria
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-24T18:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/u-s-human-rights-review-praises-myanmar-deplores-syria.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
lauded signs of political opening in Myanmar, highlighted the
first free elections in  Egypt  and deplored worsening abuses in
 Syria  in presenting the State Department’s 2011 review of human
rights conditions around the world.  Clinton said today that the annual U.S. government
assessment of civil, political and religious freedoms in 199
countries sends an important signal “to governments around the
world: We are watching, and we are holding you accountable. And
they make clear to citizens and activists everywhere: You are
not alone; we are standing with you.”  She praised Egypt for holding its first free and direct
elections this week for a president to replace  Hosni Mubarak ,
who was ousted following a popular uprising for greater
democratic freedoms last year.  “Whatever the outcome of the election, the Egyptian people
will keep striving to achieve their aspirations and, as they do,
we will continue to support them,” she told reporters at the
State Department.  She singled out for particular criticism Syrian President
Bashar Al-Assad, saying his regime is engaged in “not just an
assault on freedom of expression or freedom of association, but
an assault on the very lives of citizens. The Assad regime’s
brutality against its own people must and will end,” she said.  Mandated by Congress  The annual  report  mandated by Congress almost 40 years ago
was originally intended to guide lawmakers’ decisions in
awarding U.S. foreign military and economic assistance. Clinton
said the report has evolved into something more -- a yardstick
by which governments, activists and journalists measure progress
and reversals in civil, political and religious freedoms
worldwide.  “I don’t expect this to be reading material everywhere,
but I do hope, somewhere in the corner of my mind, that maybe a
leader will pick it up and say, ‘How do we compare with
others?’” she said.  In her preface to the report, Clinton highlighted last
year’s Arab uprisings, saying “the world changed immeasurably”
as citizens across the  Middle East , North Africa and beyond
“stood up to demand respect for human dignity, more promising
economic opportunities, greater political liberties, and a say
in their own future.”  Clinton praised the bravery of those who “endured violent
responses” in demanding democratic rights.  Myanmar ’Example’  The report highlights significant improvements in civil and
political rights in Myanmar, the southeast Asian nation formerly
known as  Burma . A military junta was dissolved last year,
hundreds of political prisoners were released and longtime
democracy leader  Aung San Suu Kyi  was permitted to run for
parliament.  “Burma offers an example of a government moving towards a
model of greater openness, democracy, and liberty, attributes
that can lead to greater innovation, prosperity, and
inclusion,” according to the State Department report.  “Significant human rights problems in the country
persisted, including military attacks against ethnic minorities
in border states, which resulted in civilian deaths, forced
relocations, sexual violence, and other serious abuses,” the
State Department found. “The government also continued to
detain hundreds of political prisoners. Government security
forces were responsible for extrajudicial killings, rape and
torture.”  That “does not diminish the excitement of these first
steps, or the sense of possibility they may inspire in other
closed societies, such as  Iran ,  North Korea , Uzbekistan,
Eritrea, or  Sudan ,” the department said.  Iran’s ‘Negative Trends’  In Iran, “sadly, 2011 was a continuation of many negative
trends,” including intolerance of dissent, a crackdown on
demonstrations and severe restrictions on free speech, political
participation and the Internet,  Michael Posner , assistant
secretary of State for democracy, human rights and labor, said
at the briefing with Clinton.  Calling it “a very grim picture,” Posner cited “unfair
trials, amputations, floggings, lots of death penalties,
including some this year, many held in secret.”  He highlighted the case of seven Baha’i leaders who this
month “marked four years of a 20-year sentence for basically
practicing their religion.”  China Activists  On China, Posner raised concern about increased
restrictions on the activities of Chinese human-rights lawyers
and activists. He cited the cases of jailed attorney Gao
Zhisheng and writer and human rights activist  Liu Xiaobo , the
winner of the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize, who is serving an 11-year
prison sentence for “subverting state power.”  Asked about blind Chinese legal activist  Chen Guangcheng ,
who was allowed to come to the U.S. this month after difficult
negotiations during a Clinton visit to  China  for strategic and
economic talks, Posner said it was striking that Clinton and her
counterparts “had a very successful meeting while a human-
rights issue was being played out.”  “The relationship is now so important to both countries
that we have found a way, and we will find a way, to talk about
our economic, political, strategic interests, and human rights
is going to be very much a part of those discussions,” he said.  Posner said the U.S. is keeping a close eye on the status
of Chen’s relatives, including a nephew who has been charged
with intent to murder after defending himself against security
officers who broke into his home in the middle of the night
looking for Chen, who escaped house arrest and took refuge at
the U.S. Embassy in Beijing.  Can’t ‘Selectively Champion’  Amnesty International , a human rights groups that issued
its own annual survey last night, praised Clinton and Posner for
vowing to speak up for the voiceless while cautioning they must
do so even at the risk of roiling diplomatic relations.  “Guarding those rights means that the United States cannot
selectively champion freedom and human rights when convenient,”
Frank Jannuzi, head of Amnesty’s Washington office, said in a
statement. “It must fully commit to ensuring that human rights
are not an afterthought but integral to its foreign relations
and economic negotiations.”  Colombia Improves  Posner highlighted improvements in  Colombia , where he said
the government is striving to address a climate of impunity over
the harassment, intimidation, and killings of human rights
workers, journalists, teachers, and trade unionists.  “Extrajudicial killings declined in large measure due to
efforts by the government to stop such crimes,” the State
Department found.  The report praised Zambia for holding presidential,
parliamentary, and local elections last September that were
“free, credible, and orderly.”  In  Tunisia , citizens held “transparent and credible
elections” for an assembly that selected a former political
prisoner as the country’s interim president, and work continues
on rewriting the constitution, the report found.  The report also cited the worldwide treatment of vulnerable
and “marginalized people,” including women and children, gay
and transgender people, those with disabilities and religious
minorities.  The report is available at  www.humanrights.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  