-- Treasury Yield 6 Basis Points From Record Low
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-24T09:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/u-s-7-year-yield-is-3-basis-points-from-low-after-summit.html
Treasury seven-year yields dropped to
a record as euro-area officials argued over how to keep the 17-
nation currency bloc together, boosting demand for the safety of
 U.S. government debt .  Ten-year yields were within four basis points of an all-
time low and borrowing costs tumbled to the least ever in
Germany and the U.K following yesterday’s EU summit in Brussels.
A $29 billion auction of seven-year Treasuries today is poised
to draw a record-low rate.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said he
sees deflation.  “The meeting only confirmed that there remains huge
disagreement,” said Niels From, chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB
in Copenhagen. “Disappointment with the political process and
also the macro picture is generating risk aversion sentiment.
Given the general  market sentiment , the pressure remains
downward for yields in the immediate future.”  The Treasury  seven-year yield  was little changed at 1.16
percent at 10:41 a.m. London time after dropping to a record
1.1301 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
1.25 percent security due April 2019 traded at 100 19/32.  The benchmark 10-year  yield  was at 1.74 percent. It earlier
dropped to 1.71 percent, approaching the record low of 1.6714
percent set on Sept. 23.  German, U.K. Records  German  10-year yields  declined as much as three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.351 percent, while
similar-maturity U.K.  gilts  slid to 1.738 percent.  Germany  has “huge difficulties” with France’s call for
joint borrowing by euro governments,  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
told reporters in Brussels early today after six hours of talks.
European leaders also called on  Greece  to stick with budget cuts
needed to stay in the euro.  There’s “more than a whiff of deflation out there,” Gross
wrote yesterday on Twitter.  Investors demand 2.52 percentage points of  extra yield  to
buy 30-year bonds instead of two-year notes. The spread narrowed
to a seven-month low of 2.48 percentage points on May 17.
Thirty-year bonds are more sensitive to inflation because of
their longer maturities.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was
2.16 percentage points, down from this year’s high of 2.45
percent in March. 20. The 10-year average is 2.15 percent.  ‘Significant Volatility’  Treasuries will continue to benefit from the flight to
quality, according to  Robert Brown , president of the bond unit
at Boston-based  Fidelity Investments , which oversees $1.62
trillion. Ten-year yields may fall to 1.5 percent, he said
yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with  Adam Johnson  and  Trish Regan .  “We are looking at a period of significant volatility,”
Brown said. “Our number one focus is preserving principal.”  The seven-year notes being sold today yielded 1.19 percent
in pre-auction trading. The securities were sold at a record-low
yield of 1.347 percent at the previous auction on April 26.  Investors  bid  for 2.83 times the amount offered last month,
the same as the average for the past 10 auctions.  Treasuries have rallied since March on speculation Greece
will abandon the euro as it combats a recession, leading other
nations in the currency bloc to consider doing the same.  Treasuries ‘Expensive’  “Treasuries are expensive,” said  Peter Jolly ,
head of market research at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  in
Sydney. “Yields are at the bottom end of the range. To pierce
these lows, some of the risks that we’re talking about are going
to need to materialize.”  Ten-year yields will increase to 2.45 percent by year-end,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
financial companies with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings. Jolly predicts 2.5 percent.  The Federal Reserve plans to buy as much as $2 billion of
Treasuries due from February 2036 to May 2042 today, according
to the Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website . The purchases are part of
the central bank’s program to replace $400 billion of shorter-
term debt in its holdings with longer maturities by the end of
June to support the economy.  A U.S. report today will show orders for durable goods rose
0.2 percent in April, after falling a revised 3.9 percent in
March, a Bloomberg News survey of economists shows.  China ’s
manufacturing may shrink for a seventh month, a private
purchasing managers’ index showed today.  Treasuries returned 1.2 percent this month as of yesterday,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show, reflecting demand
for the relative safety of  U.S. debt . Investors tracking the
MSCI All-Country World Index of  stocks  lost 8.3 percent over the
same period, including reinvested dividends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  