-- Huawei Files EU Antitrust Complaint Against InterDigital
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-24T19:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/huawei-files-antitrust-complaint-with-eu-over-interdigital.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest phone-equipment maker, filed an antitrust complaint with
European Union regulators that accuses  InterDigital Inc. (IDCC)  of
refusing to license key wireless patents.  Huawei alleges that InterDigital is abusing a dominant
position for 3G technology patents agreed as industry standards
and has made “unreasonable and discriminatory demands” on
license fees, said Roland Sladek, a spokesman for Huawei in
Shenzhen, China. Huawei filed the complaint yesterday because
there was “no foreseeable resolution” to talks on the fees, it
said in a statement today.  “Such inflated demands from InterDigital could penalize
European consumers” if they had to pay more for mobile phones
and other products, Sladek said.  Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  are being probed by the European Commission over
whether they violated agreements to license standards-essential
patents to other mobile-phone manufacturers on fair terms. The
EU probe into Motorola Mobility followed complaints from
Microsoft Corp. and Apple Inc. this year.  “InterDigital has not seen the complaint that was filed so
we can offer no specific response to whatever issues might be
raised,” Lawrence Shay, the president of the company’s digital
holding units, said in a statement. “We have in the past
licensed, and continue to license, technologies on the terms set
forth in our commitments” to standards organizations.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission
in Brussels, said regulators had received the complaint and
“will examine it.”  1,300 Patents  InterDigital, the owner of about 1,300 U.S. patents related
to mobile phones, last year filed a case with the U.S.
International Trade Commission in  Washington , alleging that
Huawei, Nokia Oyj, ZTE Corp. and LG Electronics Inc. infringed
patents related to so-called third-generation wireless
technology. It has also sued the companies in federal court in
Wilmington,  Delaware , making the same allegations.  In January, InterDigital, based in  King of Prussia ,
 Pennsylvania , said it concluded a review on a potential sale
without finding a buyer for the company and has instead decided
to focus on patent sales and licensing. The company has said its
patents were deeper and stronger than those that Nortel Networks
Corp. auctioned for $4.5 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 