-- Ukraine Weighs Higher Gas Tariffs in 2013 to Unlock IMF Bailout
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-05-24T20:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/ukraine-weighs-higher-gas-tariffs-in-2013-to-unlock-imf-bailout.html
Ukraine, seeking to access a $15.6
billion International Monetary Fund bailout frozen because of
government unwillingness to raise household natural-gas prices,
is considering higher tariffs from 2013, a minister said.  The former Soviet republic, which faces parliamentary
elections in October, may be willing to raise costs in stages
starting next year, Foreign Minister Kostyantyn Gryshchenko said
yesterday in an interview. The Washington-based lender has
demanded the increases to narrow the  budget deficit  by trimming
losses at state-run energy company NAK Naftogaz.  “We aren’t ready for any steep rise,” Gryshchenko said
in the interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. Ukraine
wants the IMF lending to resume “as soon as possible,” he
said. “We’ve met all the conditions except the increase in
natural-gas prices.”  The IMF halted Ukraine’s latest bailout, which it approved
in 2010, last March after the government refused to raise gas
tariffs. Efforts to placate the lender by reducing the price
paid to  Russia  for the fuel by a third have so far failed. IMF
officials are in Kiev May 21-28 for talks with the government.  The hryvnia fell 0.6 percent to 8.0638 per dollar as of
11:06 a.m. in  New York , the biggest drop since Jan. 21, 2011.
 Ukraine stocks  declined to their lowest in almost three years
after German confidence fell more than economists forecast.  ‘Overpaying Billions’  Ukraine’s government will continue to seek a discount on
Russian energy imports, which it deems too expensive, according
to Gryshchenko.  “We’re overpaying billions of dollars for Russian gas
supplies and that creates pressure on our financial system,”
Gryshchenko said. “These days, it’s cheaper to buy Russian gas
that was shipped to  Germany  than what we pay for direct supplies
from Russia. This is ridiculous -- the deal isn’t sustainable.”  It’s in Russia’s interests to change the gas accord as
demand weakens when prices rise, Gryshchenko said.  Vladimir Putin ’s return this month for a third term as Russia’s president
increases the chances of negotiating a discount, he added,
without elaborating.  Ukraine receives fees from Russia for gas that transits its
territory en route to  Europe  and generates exports revenue by
selling commodities such as grain, steel, chemicals and
machinery.  Economic growth will slow to 3 percent this year in 2012,
less than the government’s 3.7 percent forecast and last year’s
5.2 percent expansion, because of weakening export demand, the
IMF said April 17 in its  World Economic Outlook  report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  