-- Underwriters Paying to Pass Bond Issues Face Scrutiny
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/underwriters-paying-to-pass-bond-issues-face-scrutiny.html
Soon after investment bank Morgan
Keegan Inc. gave $1,000 to a committee backing voter passage of
a bond authorization for Rogers,  Arkansas , in September, the
bank earned $502,000 selling the approved debt.  The town’s fee to raise $77 million exceeded the national
average for similar debt sales by 14 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It went to the investment bank, a unit of
 St. Petersburg , Florida-based  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)   “If you contribute, you get selected,” said Christopher
“Kit” Taylor, a former executive director of the Alexandria,
Virginia-based Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which sets
guidelines for the municipal  bond market . “For the bank, it is
well worth the rate of return on the contribution.”  Underwriters that fund bond-authorization campaigns and
then collect fees from approved debt sales are among the
unresolved pay-to-play issues in the $3.7 trillion municipal
market. The MSRB, after collecting data on dealer contributions
to bond campaigns for two years, is starting to examine the need
for restrictions based on such contributions, said Ernesto Lanza, deputy executive director and chief legal officer.  Hiring an underwriter based on whether it supports a
campaign rather than its ability to market bonds can lead to
issues from mispricing, which can hurt investors, to higher fees
and borrowing costs for taxpayers. The rulemaking board’s focus
is on ensuring investors are protected, Lanza said by telephone.  Promoting Merit  “When people aren’t hired on merit, the potential for a
deal going bad increases,” Lanza said. “We’re trying to do the
best we can to promote underwriters being hired on merit and not
based on whether they contributed to a campaign.”  The MSRB has banned would-be underwriters from giving to
most campaigns for elected officials who could influence the
award of bond sales. Banks have been divided over whether they
should be allowed to support drives in favor of referendums
authorizing debt issues that they later underwrite. Some say it
creates the appearance of undue influence, while others say it
merely helps issuers win the votes and finance needed projects.  “There’s an explicit tit-for-tat,” said Taylor.
“Politicians say they can’t afford to support the bond election
and it wouldn’t get done. This is a subtle form for taxpayer
money supporting the election.”  Making such contributions is more widespread among smaller
underwriters, such as RBC Capital, Piper Jaffray and Morgan
Keegan, than larger dealers, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Citigroup Inc., according to
disclosure filings with the rulemaking board.  Rogers Sale  The bankers involved tend to work with school districts and
smaller cities, such as Rogers, Arkansas. Steve Hollister, a
Raymond James spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to a
telephone call and e-mail seeking comment on Morgan Keegan’s
role in the Rogers sale, which paid for street and park
improvements, fire and police equipment, and debt refinancing.  Lynn Keith, the executive assistant to Rogers Mayor Greg Hines, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for
comment on the bank’s election role and the subsequent sale.  In some cases banks contribute cash to campaign committees.
In others, they provide election services, such as preparing
brochures explaining bond issues to voters. The practice, which
occurs in many parts of the U.S., is more prevalent in Colorado,
 California  and states in the Midwest and South.  California Campaigns  Over the past five years, underwriters gave $1.8 million to
successful school-bond campaigns in California and got almost
all the work selling the approved bonds,  California Watch
reported  earlier this month.  The rulemaking board is looking at and analyzing a number
of issues tied to the practice. They include the distinction
between a dealer giving to a campaign and running one, whether
more disclosure or more limits are needed, current state laws
and what effect any new restrictions could have on existing MSRB
rules banning contributions to elected officials, Lanza said.  “There is a clear correlation between giving and getting
the underwriting business,” he said.  The solution, according to Taylor, is for more bonds to be
sold through competitive bidding rather than hiring underwriters
to negotiate a debt sale.  “It’s a tough one because issuers know how to exploit the
situation by saying, ‘If you don’t contribute, we aren’t hiring
you,”’ Taylor said. “They can extort money if it’s done
negotiated, and no one is the wiser.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  