-- Hungarian Forint Gains Most in Month Against Euro on Aid Plans
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-05-24T15:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/hungarian-forint-rebounds-from-biggest-drop-against-euro-in-2012.html
The forint gained the most in a month
against the euro, rebounding from the biggest drop this year, on
speculation the country is moving closer to starting aid talks
with the  International Monetary Fund .  Hungary’s currency appreciated 1.1 percent to 299.1 per
euro by 4:54 p.m. in Budapest, the most since April 25. The
government’s benchmark 10-year  bonds  advanced, cutting yields 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 8.623 percent.  Hungary, the first European Union member to be bailed out
by the IMF in 2008, has failed to start talks on a second rescue
for six months since requesting the aid. The country may start
formal negotiations on the  credit line  after Parliament passes
amendments to a disputed central bank law on June 4, state news
service MTI said late yesterday, citing the  Economy Ministry .  “The prospect of progress in the IMF story may support the
forint, although the international environment remains a key
factor,” Levente Blaho and Adam Keszeg, analysts at  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI) , wrote in a report today.  Hungary will “ultimately” reach a deal with the IMF,
Raiffeisen Chief Executive Officer Herbert Stepic told
journalists in Vienna today. The country “isn’t comparable” to
Greece and Stepic doesn’t expect insolvency. The forint would
probably slump in the absence of an IMF deal and make
refinancing more difficult, he said.  The planned vote on the central bank law is “positive” as
it paves the way for the IMF deal, Ilan Solot, a London-based
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman, and colleagues wrote in a
research report today. “Upside risks” for the euro-forint rate
“remain plentiful,” they said.  CDS  The cost of insuring against default on  Hungary ’s five-year
debt with credit-default swaps retreated three basis points to
591. The CDS fell as low as 492 on May 2 after the European
Commission gave approval in April for the aid talks to begin.  The forint’s 1.5 percent slump yesterday pushed its 14-day
relative strength index to 30.6, near the 30 level that
indicates to some analysts a security is oversold.  “Yesterday’s overreaction is hitting back now,” Miklos Kolba, a Budapest-based currency trader at ING Groep NV, wrote
in comments sent by e-mail today.  The government raised 50 billion forint ($211 million) in
12-month Treasury bills at an auction today, 5 billion forint
more than planned, according to results from the Debt Management
Agency on Bloomberg. The average yield was 7.58 percent,
compared with 7.38 percent at the last sale of that maturity on
May 10.  Hungary’s retail sales rose 0.9 percent in March from a
year earlier, statistics data showed today. The data was a
“huge surprise on the upside,” the Brown Brothers Harriman
analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  