-- Hunt Memo to Cameron on News Corp. Raises Impartiality Questions
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-05-24T23:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/hunt-memo-to-cameron-on-news-corp-raises-impartiality-questions.html
U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt 
told Prime Minister David Cameron he backed News Corp.’s planned
takeover of British Sky Broadcasting Plc a month before Cameron
appointed him to review the bid, a media-ethics probe heard.  “The U.K. has the chance to lead the way, but if we block
it, our media sector will suffer for years,” Hunt wrote in a
draft of a note he sent to Cameron on Nov. 19, 2010. The note
was read out to the inquiry in London yesterday. Hunt wrote that
it would be “totally wrong to cave into” demands that the
offer be rejected on media-plurality grounds.  Cameron set up the Leveson Inquiry last year partly to fend
off criticism that his  Conservative Party  was too close to
 Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  It’s turned its attention this week
to the government’s handling of the BSkyB bid, over which Hunt
and the premier insist they acted properly. Yesterday’s
disclosure raises new questions about Cameron’s and Hunt’s
impartiality.  Cameron was forced to transfer responsibility for the bid
to Hunt in December 2010, after Business Secretary  Vince Cable ,
who was previously in charge, was recorded by undercover
reporters saying he’d “declared war” on Murdoch. News Corp.
dropped the 7.8 billion-pound ($12.2 billion) offer for full
control of BSkyB in July last year to help contain the phone-
hacking scandal at its News of the World tabloid.  The U.K.’s top civil servant,  Gus O’Donnell , declared in
December 2010 that previous public statements by Hunt in favor
of News Corp. didn’t compromise him. Cameron’s office didn’t
immediately comment on whether the prime minister had told
O’Donnell about Hunt’s memo.  ‘Impartial Arbiter’  “ David Cameron  gave responsibility to Jeremy Hunt for
deciding on the BSkyB bid when he knew only too well that the
culture secretary was actively supporting the bid,” the
opposition  Labour Party ’s deputy leader,  Harriet Harman , said in
an e-mailed statement. “The prime minister should never have
given him the job. It is clear that Jeremy Hunt was not the
impartial arbiter he was required to be, and he should already
have resigned.”  The inquiry heard yesterday from Fred Michel, a News Corp.
lobbyist, and Hunt’s former special adviser,  Adam Smith , who
resigned last month after News Corp. released internal e-mails
to the inquiry showing he’d given Michel inside information on
Hunt’s thinking. The culture secretary’s future in his job
depends on successfully arguing that Smith was acting without
his approval.  Michel said he’d been under the impression that Smith was
acting on Hunt’s behalf. “For me it’s self-evident that a
special adviser is someone who represents the secretary of
state,” he told the inquiry. “There are two or three events
when I had the impression that some of the feedback I was given
had been discussed with the secretary of state before it was
given to me.”  Quasi-Judicial Role  Smith, who’ll return tomorrow for more testimony, said
officials in Hunt’s department had been aware he was in contact
with Michel and hadn’t raised objections. He said he believed
that Hunt’s “quasi-judicial” role in deciding on the BSkyB bid
didn’t extend to his advisers.  Michel also said that Gabby Bertin, one of Cameron’s press
advisers, had sent supportive messages to Rebekah Brooks, then
the chief executive officer of News Corp.’s U.K. publishing
unit, following the revelation in July last year that the News
of the World had hacked the phone of a murdered schoolgirl in
2002. He said he didn’t know the content of the messages, though
he’d been asked by Brooks to pass on her thanks.  Brooks, a friend of Cameron’s, was charged this month with
trying to cover up the phone-hacking scandal.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 