-- USOC Ends Revenue Dispute With IOC, Paving Way for Olympic Bid
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-05-24T19:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/usoc-ends-revenue-dispute-with-ioc-paving-way-for-olympic-bid.html
The  U.S. Olympic Committee  signed a
new revenue-sharing agreement with the  International Olympic
Committee  that will help the U.S. as it bids for future games.  “This agreement will definitely strengthen both sides,”
Jacques Rogge, the IOC’s president, said at a news conference in
 Quebec City . “The IOC will be in position to better function
and the USOC will enhance its possibility in having a leading
role in sport in the world.”  The deal begins in 2020 and ends discord between the two
bodies that hampered previous U.S. Olympic bids.  The USOC will contribute toward the cost of staging the
games and take a reduction in future revenue from television and
sponsorship rights, said Richard Carrion, president of the IOC’s
finance commission. The two sides also settled on procedures for
broadcast-rights negotiations and the use of historic television
footage, Carrion said.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  The USOC receives 20 percent of global sponsorship revenue
and 12.75 percent of U.S. broadcast rights revenue under the
current deal, which dates back to 1996, the  Associated Press 
said, citing an official with knowledge of the negotiations who
requested anonymity. Under the new accord, the USOC will
maintain its previous revenue, while its share of sponsorship
revenue will drop to 10 percent of future increases and its TV
rights share will fall to 7 percent of future boosts, AP said.  The USOC also will contribute $15 million toward staging
the games through 2020 and $20 million after that, AP said.  Unsuccessful Bids  The USOC bid to host the 2012 Olympics in  New York  lost to
 London . For 2016, a bid to bring the games to  Chicago  lost to
Rio de Janeiro. The USOC had said that it wouldn’t submit
another bid until the revenue-sharing dispute was resolved. With
the new deal, the next Olympics it could bid on are the  Winter
Games  in 2022 or the Summer Games in 2024.  “It’s premature to talk about our strategy,” said Larry Probst, chairman of the USOC. “We just signed this agreement
literally 30 minutes ago, but we hope this has removed a
roadblock from a successful bid from the United States.”  The USOC’s plans will be further discussed at board
meetings in June, Probst said. The U.S. last hosted the  Summer
Olympics  in 1996 in Atlanta and the Winter Olympics in 2002 in
 Salt Lake City .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 