-- Vanguard Closes High-Yield Bond Fund to New Investors
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-05-24T21:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/vanguard-closes-high-yield-bond-fund-to-new-investors.html
Vanguard Group Inc. has closed a
$16.9 billion high-yield bond fund to most new investors as a
surge in deposits threaten the ability of the world’s biggest
mutual-fund provider to effectively invest in the debt.  The  High Yield Corporate Fund (VWEHX) , managed by Boston-based
Wellington Management Co., received $2 billion from clients over
the past six months, the  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based
company said today in a statement. It remains open to existing
shareholders and some Vanguard clients.  Vanguard joins T. Rowe Price Group Inc. in shutting a junk-
debt fund after investors funneled $23.1 billion into the
securities this year, 48 percent more than all of 2011, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. strategists said in a May 18 report. The bonds have
lost 1.3 percent this month as concern mounts that Greece’s
political crisis will cause it to exit  Europe ’s common currency,
sending the euro region into a recession and disrupting the
financial system.  “It’s a responsible step for a  high-yield fund (PRHYX)  to stop
taking in money if it can’t continue to invest it without
deviating from its established credit-quality standards,”
 Martin Fridson , New York-based global credit strategist at BNP
Paribas Investment Partners, said in an e-mail. “I do think
it’s a case of too much inflow chasing too little issuance.”  Rates Near Zero  While investors withdrew $689 million from high-yield bond
funds last week, largely because of $918 million pulled from
exchange-traded funds, they poured $229 million into actively
managed accounts that buy the notes, JPMorgan analysts led by
 Peter Acciavatti  wrote in the note last week. Investors are
attracted to the speculative-grade corporate securities as the
 Federal Reserve  has kept rates near zero since December 2008.  “We are taking these proactive steps to preserve the
ability of the advisor to manage the fund effectively and
protect the interests of existing shareholders,” William McNabb, Vanguard’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. The company manages $1.84 trillion in U.S. mutual
fund assets, it said in the statement.  T. Rowe Price said it was closing certain classes of its
$9.4 billion High Yield Fund and $2.6 billion  Institutional High
Yield Fund (TRHYX)  in a May 1 statement. It last shuttered the funds in
February 2004 and reopened them three years later.  High-yield funds are holding almost twice the percentage of
their assets in cash now than in 2011, up to 6 percent versus 3
percent a year ago, according to the JPMorgan analysts.  If money continues to pour in, “it could eventually strain
our ability to invest efficiently,” Mark Vaselkiv, head of T.
Rowe Price’s taxable high-yield bond team, said in the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  