-- Vatican Bank Chief Ousted After Money-Laundering Scandal
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-05-25T14:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/vatican-bank-chief-ousted-after-money-laundering-scandal.html
The Vatican bank, whose reputation
took a blow over an investigation into  money laundering , has
fired Chairman Ettore Gotti Tedeschi after a tenure stained by a
financial scandal.  In a vote of no-confidence, the board of directors
unanimously agreed to remove Tedeschi, a  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
banker who took the job in 2009, from his post for failing “to
carry out various duties of primary importance,” according to a
statement yesterday by Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi.  Tedeschi said he was “torn” between wanting to explain
the truth and not upsetting  Pope Benedict XVI , according to an
interview with Italian news agency Ansa today. “My love for the
Pope prevails even over defending my reputation, which has been
cowardly questioned,” he was cited as saying.  The bank, which is formally called the Institute for the
Works of Religion, said it’s now hunting for a replacement who
can “restore” relations with the financial community. Set up
in 1942 by Pope Pius XII to manage the Vatican’s finances, the
bank, known by its Italian initials as the IOR, reports directly
to the pope.  Money-Laundering Probe  After barely a year in office, Tedeschi, who also teaches
ethics in finance at Milan’s  Catholic University , was taken by
surprise when Italian prosecutors in 2010 seized 23 million
euros ($29 million) from a Rome bank account registered to the
IOR amid suspicions of money-laundering violations.  He and Director General Paolo Cipriani were placed under
investigation for allegedly omitting data in wire transfers from
an Italian account. The publication this month of confidential
leaked documents in a book titled “Your Holiness” by
journalist Gianluigi Nuzzi also painted a poor picture of
Tedeschi as the man in charge of the church’s money.  Lombardi said today that Vatican authorities had detained a
layman for alleged possession of secret papal documents, adding
that the case was not related to Tedeschi.  The suspect was “in a state of arrest” and being
questioned by Vatican investigators, Lombardi said by phone.  Il
Foglio  newspaper identified the man as the pope’s chamberlain,
citing unidentified church officials in a report posted on its
website.  Calls for Transparency  The Italian prosecutors’ probe triggered calls to bring the
city-state in line with European Union financial rules and
become more transparent.  Tedeschi responded by saying the investigation was yet
another example of the Catholic Church coming under “fierce
attack.” At the time, Pope Benedict XVI was beset by
allegations of sexual abuse of minors by priests.  The cardinals on the IOR’s governing council are to meet
today to decide on the next steps, according to the Vatican
statement.  The institute is no stranger to scandal. It was implicated
in the fraudulent bankruptcy of Banco Ambrosiano in 1982. The
bank’s former Chairman Roberto Calvi, dubbed “God’s banker,”
was found hanged under  London ’s Blackfriars Bridge in June of
that year. The Vatican paid $240 million to compensate
Ambrosiano’s account holders without admitting any wrongdoing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net 
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  