-- Veterans Face Ruin Awaiting Benefits as Wounded Swamp VA
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-05-24T02:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/veterans-face-ruin-awaiting-benefits-as-wounded-swamp-va.html
Rebecca Tews sat at her kitchen table
in North Aurora, Illinois, stared into her laptop and tried to
find a place for her family to live.  The 43-year-old psychologist spent seven years fighting for
disability benefits for her husband, Duane Kozlowski, after he
left the U.S. Army, unable to  hold a job  because of brain damage
and post-traumatic stress. She borrowed $20,000 from her
father’s and grandfather’s retirement accounts, stopped paying
her  student loans  and ran up tens of thousands of dollars in
bills for Duane’s tests and medical care.  While she eventually got the benefits, her credit is in
ruins. This month, an eviction notice was taped to the door of
her rented 5-bedroom  home . She’s worried about finding a
landlord willing to rent to her, Duane and five children.  “It’s basically been like a tornado,” she said of her
struggle with the U.S. Veterans Affairs Department. “It’s wiped
out our future. It’s wiped out our relationship with our
extended family. It’s wiped everything out and we’re starting
out again below ground.”  Tews and Kozlowski, 44, are among thousands of former
soldiers and their families suffering the effects of a Veterans
department  overwhelmed  by a decade of fighting overseas. With
the  Iraq war  finished and troops returning from  Afghanistan ,
record numbers of former service members are turning to the
federal government for disability pay, adding to a backlog of
claims and delays that have dogged the agency for years.  Troops Come Home  The number of disability cases filed with the Veterans
department jumped 48 percent over the past four years to 1.3
million in 2011. The agency expects demands from wounded
veterans to rise as more leave the military, Veterans Secretary
Eric Shinseki told Congress in February.  About 905,000 claims are pending at the department, 65
percent of them are taking longer than the agency’s 125-day
target for dealing with them, according to tallies released this
week. Disputes can draw out that process: A federal court ruling
in May 2011 said it takes an average of more than four years for
veterans to receive a final decision. Many have died waiting.  The backlog is adding to the pressures of post-military
life, said David Autry, a Washington-based spokesman for
Disabled American Veterans, an advocacy group that assists
former service members with their claims. With the economy
struggling to recover from the longest recession since World War
II, 29 percent of  young male veterans  were unemployed in 2011,
compared with 18 percent for young men who didn’t serve.  Financial Burden  “It’s a huge financial burden,” Autry said, referring to
those who are waiting on the government. “A lot of veterans
feel betrayed after being wounded, injured or sickened in the
service of the country. The government is just not fulfilling
their promises to them.”  About a third of those returning from deployments to
Afghanistan and  Iraq  may suffer from brain injuries, depression
or post-traumatic stress disorder, known as PTSD, according to a
study by  Santa Monica , California-based Rand Corp., a nonprofit
research organization.  Advances in medicine and military technology also let
soldiers survive attacks that once would have been fatal.
Wounded veterans from post-Sept. 11 wars report an average of
8.5 disabling conditions per claim, more than twice those of
prior wars, according to Secretary Shinseki.  Other factors have also contributed: aging veterans, a
decision to expand diseases recognized for Vietnam-era claims
related to  Agent Orange  and a slow-growing economy, according to
the Veterans department.  Tackling Problem  Allison Hickey, the veterans department’s undersecretary
for benefits, said the agency is trying to speed up processing.
It is installing new electronic record-keeping systems; has put
new review teams at regional offices; and is moving to respond
more quickly to easy-to-review claims while directing more
experienced workers to complex cases.  “In 2015, our requirement is no claim over 125 days,” she
said. “And we are working to get there.”  U.S. Representative Jeff Miller, a Florida Republican who
leads the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, said it’s not
coming fast enough.  “The VA is failing veterans who wait months, sometimes
years, to have their claim processed,” Miller said. “In just
the past three years, not only have we seen the backlog grow
exponentially, but there has been a lot of talk from VA about
the backlog with little progress.”  War Pay Gone  Michael Wade, a former Army reservist who lives in
Alexander,  Arkansas , said he returned from Iraq in 2005 unable
to hold a job and wrestling with anxiety attacks, headaches and
nightmares that prevented him from sleeping.  He said he sought disability pay for PTSD and other
injuries in early 2007. A year later, he said, the Veterans
agency awarded him $123 a month for a neck injury. It wasn’t
until 2011 that the government recognized his PTSD, boosting his
pay to about $1,250 a month, he said. During the wait, he used
up the $8,000 he saved while in Iraq on routine living expenses
and ran up $3,000 in family debts.  “Somebody who went through what we did over there, they
shouldn’t have to fight for four years to get what they
deserve,” said Wade, 40. “I’ve got friends of mine, they’re
going through the same thing.”  The claim system that pays benefits to disabled veterans
has been the subject of scrutiny since at least 1996, when a
special commission advised Congress on ways to fix it.  Veterans Sue  In 2007, Veterans for Common Sense and Veterans United for
Truth sued the federal government for failing to provide pay or
health care on time. In May 2011, U.S. Circuit Judge Stephen Reinhardt said the delays deprive former service members of
their rights, and that the agency’s “unchecked incompetence has
gone on long enough,” in a ruling by an appeals panel. On May
7, a larger group of jurists reversed that decision, saying the
courts lack jurisdiction to address it.  Recent reports by the Veterans department’s inspector
general have also faulted the agency. Inspections of offices in
 San Diego , Oakland and  Los Angeles  found as many as 60 percent
of disability claims it reviewed were processed incorrectly. The
reports said oversight was also needed to deal with claims
pending more than a year. In Oakland, one had been awaiting
action for more than 8 years.  Tews in Illinois said she started worrying about Duane in
2003 during phone calls home from  South Korea , where he was
deployed to maintain helicopters used in Afghanistan and Iraq.  Maintenance Work  Duane had done maintenance work since joining the Army in
1986. Over the next eight years, he says his job exposed him to
toxic chemicals for as long as eight hours or more, sometimes
leaving him drenched in fuel and cleaning solvents in cramped
spaces where he labored without protective gear.  One day in 1996 at Ft. Eustis in  Virginia , she said Duane
woke up with a headache and abdominal pain, and with no memory
of the night before. Three weeks later -- after coughing up
blood -- he underwent surgery to staunch the bleeding. His heart
stopped twice on the operating table and he had to be
resuscitated, she said. Medical scans later found that he had
 brain damage  consistent with oxygen deprivation during the
surgery and with exposure to neurotoxins, according to records
she filed with his claim.  Beaten by Comrades  The injuries that forced the surgery were the result of an
assault by Duane’s fellow soldiers, Tews said in documents
submitted in connection with her husband’s claim for disability
benefits. This beating also left Duane with PTSD, she said.  Vicki Bowker, a spokeswoman for Joint Base Langley-Eustis
in Fort Eustis, Virginia, said she couldn’t comment because
records of such incidents would no longer be kept at the base.  In July 2003, after Duane showed signs of emotional
distress and complained of headaches, the Army gave him a
hardship discharge and sent him home, Rebecca said. He got and
then lost a $46,000-a-year job as a systems analyst with a
military contractor after less than a year. Later, a $5.75-an-
hour job at a Plainfield,  Illinois , pizza shop lasted two weeks.  Duane was unable to balance a checkbook, follow directions
or read social cues, his wife says. He was also irritable and
angry. “I didn’t get back the man I sent,” she said.  In October 2004, Duane sought disability pay. A year later,
the Veterans department determined that he was 30 percent
disabled. Currently, such a rating gives a veteran with a wife
and a child $469 a month, compared with $3,037 for someone 100
percent disabled.  Toll Taken  Rebecca says appealing the decision and caring for her
husband became a full-time job. The family was on and off
welfare. Two cars were repossessed. They lost two rent-to-own
homes because they couldn’t make rent payments. She lost two
teaching jobs because caring for her husband made her schedule
unpredictable. He was in and out of doctors’ offices and
hospitals.  In August 2006, the Veterans department deemed him 100
percent disabled. It took two more years of appeals to get
medical benefits for her family.  In April 2011, Duane was awarded extra pay to former
service members in need of extra help in their daily lives. That
boosted the family’s income to about $4,000 a month. Rebecca
later qualified for another $1,200 a month to care for her
husband under a law President  Barack Obama  signed to give added
support to caregivers of veterans of the post-Sept. 11 wars.  Planned Life Gone  Nine years after Duane’s return, their credit is destroyed.
Their landlord is losing the house they live in to foreclosure.
As they prepared to find a new place to live, the entryway was
full of their childrens’ artwork, and a family-made wall hanging
that read “Impossible is not a word.”  “The life that we planned is completely gone,” she said.  In Killeen,  Texas , former Army sergeant Hector Esparza is
hounded by nightmares and flashbacks from his days as a gunner
escorting convoys through  Baghdad  in 2004 and 2005, during the
bloodiest days of the Iraq war. He also has headaches, the
legacy of a brain injury received when a rocket hit his Humvee.  Esparza lost a job at a juvenile jail and built up $25,000
in credit-card debt that he can’t pay. He has a pregnant wife, a
six-year old daughter and a mortgage that is a monthly struggle
to pay. He is rated 60 percent disabled, with pay of $1,200 a
month from the Veterans department. He gets $1,000 more each
month from the U.S. Social Security Administration.  Feeling Lied To  Since 2009, Esparza said, he’s been trying to qualify for
full disability payments because he’s unable to work, as much as
he wants to. In April he received a letter from the agency. With
so many claims piling up, it said, it could take another six
months to get to his.  “I was pretty confident that I was going to be taken care
of and my family was going to be taken care of,” Esparza said.
“I feel lied to and disappointed because I don’t see that
happening.”  He says it’s a stretch just to pay for gas to drive to an
agency office 30 minutes away for post-traumatic stress
treatment. On a recent trip to the grocery store, he had to turn
down his daughter when she asked for a bag of Doritos. He didn’t
have the money.  “I feel like they’re better off without me, like I’m
holding them back,” he said. “And even though my wife says
she’s happy, I know that somebody else could take better care of
her financially than I could. I don’t want another family going
through what I went through.”  Ranks to Grow  The number of disabled veterans like Esparza is expected to
continue to grow. With 1 million troops leaving the military
over the next five years, demand on the department is expected
to grow for the “foreseeable future,” Secretary Shinseki told
Congress in February.  In  Newport News , Virginia, the center of a region dotted by
military bases, the Veterans Support Organization received calls
every week from former service members looking for financial
help as they wait for benefit checks to come through, said David Knapp, who was director of the group there until he left last
month to take over in  Pennsylvania .  “I can’t give them the kind of money that they need,” he
said. “The only agency that can give these soldiers the support
they need is the VA.”  In Shingle Springs,  California , 40 miles east of
 Sacramento , Sheryl Gielenz, a 26-year old mother of two, this
year sold her family’s possessions -- a dining room table, a
children’s dresser, a snowmobile -- to pay bills.  Selling the House  Her husband, Forrest Gielenz, was discharged from the Army
in 2008 after serving in Iraq and struggles with post-traumatic
stress. One evening in September, he became convinced that Iraqi
insurgents were surrounding the house and threatened police
officers who came to investigate. He was arrested and placed in
treatment for post-traumatic stress in connection with his case.  Sheryl said Forrest appealed for an increase in his $1,600
a month disability benefit.  “We’re not expecting to get anything soon,” she said as
she waited. In the meantime,  USA Cares , a private charity for
military families, helps to pay her mortgage.  Earlier this month, Sheryl agreed to sell her home and is
planning to move in with her mother in Pennsylvania. She said
her husband will follow when he’s released from treatment.  In Illinois, Rebecca Tews is sorting through papers and
packing up toys her children would rather play with.  “The thing that keeps me going is I know we’re not the
only ones,” she said. “It’s appalling what’s out there. But
we’re survivor families and we’re going to make it work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  