-- Volcano Crystals Hold Clues to Next Big Eruption
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-05-24T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/volcano-crystals-hold-clues-to-next-big-eruption.html
Crystals formed in the molten rock of
a volcano may help predict the next eruption of  Mount St. Helens 
or  Mount Vesuvius  as far as a year in advance, researchers said.  Drawing from data of the explosions of Mount St. Helens in
1980 through 1986 in  Washington , scientists found that iron- and
magnesium-rich crystals grew before an eruption, according to a
study in the journal  Science . The most rapid growth happened in
the 12 months before the volcano exploded, the analysis showed.  Volcanos often erupt with little clear warning, and efforts
to predict them rely on monitoring seismic activity, ground
deformations, gas emissions and changes in water levels and
chemistry, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey . The latest
finding may help scientists better gauge the signs and give
advance warning of a potentially fatal eruption.  “Volcanoes tend to erupt in a similar cycle and have
similar trends,” said  Kate Saunders , a study author and
geologist at the  University of Bristol  in  England , in a
telephone interview. “If we can work out their behavior, it
allows us to know what to look for. We can better evaluate the
monitoring signals.”  Saunders said that she and her colleagues “have no
predictions on what might erupt soon.”  Volcanoes have killed 29,000 people worldwide since 1980,
 according to  the U.S. Geological Service. There are about 169
 active volcanoes  in the U.S., mostly in  Alaska , and about 1,500
worldwide.  Mount St. Helens  Mount St. Helens exploded on May 18, 1980, after months of
earthquakes and smaller explosions. The eruption killed 57,
including  David Johnston , the geologist who first radioed word
of the eruption from an observation post nearby. Johnston’s
insistence that the public be barred access to the area that
year saved thousands of lives, according to the USGS.  About 12 months before the eruption, iron and magnesium-
rich crystals grew more quickly, and data show the growth of
these crystals took place at the same time as increased
earthquake activity and gas emissions, according to the paper.
That may mean that new magma pulsed into the volcano’s inner
chamber, and may provide scientists with a view into the hidden
life of a volcano.  Of the active U.S. volcanoes, 54 are considered a high or
very high threat to public safety, according to the USGS.
Besides the danger to people on the ground, a volcano explosion
can threaten  air travel , as when KLM Flight 867 with 240
passengers aboard  encountered an ash cloud  from the 1989
eruption of Mt. Redoubt near Anchorage, Alaska, causing the
engines of the plane to fail. Though the crew landed the plane
safely, $80 million in damage was done to aircraft.  Future Research  Saunders said her future research will focus on linking
crystal composition to other monitoring techniques, enabling for
even better understanding of volcanoes. The crystals are like a
book that provides scientists with a record of what’s happening
within the volcano, she said.  “If you know your alphabet, you can read the book,”
Saunders said. “And the better we understand a volcano, the
better we can predict eruptions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 