-- Wall Street CMBS Allure Fades as Volatility Surges: Mortgages
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-05-24T15:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/wall-street-cmbs-allure-fades-as-volatility-surges-mortgages.html
Wall Street’s on-again, off-again
love affair with commercial-mortgage-backed securities is on the
rocks as markets get whipsawed by  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and other banks
sold $2.4 billion of new deals this month with the widest
spreads this year. An index tied to lower-rated bonds issued
before the financial crisis fell 7.4 percent to 56 cents on the
dollar, approaching the lowest level in almost six months.  Market  volatility , which rose the most last week since
January, makes it harder to gauge investor demand for bonds tied
to everything from shopping malls to mobile home parks. Lenders
hold commercial mortgages for several months before selling them
as securities, which means swings in values as they accumulate
debt can eat into profits and thwart efforts to boost sales.  “Holding loans on the balance sheet has become a fairly
risky process,” said Lisa Pendergast, a debt strategist at
 Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . ‘There is a level
of uncertainty that makes it difficult to go full-steam ahead.”  A pullback in CMBS lending would choke off funding to
borrowers as more than $30 billion in debt matures this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks have arranged about $10 billion in CMBS sales this
year. Issuance accelerated after dropping to $2.9 billion in the
fourth quarter of 2011 from $8.3 billion in the previous three
months as the risk of  Greece  defaulting soared and credit
markets swooned, pushing Wall Street to the sidelines.  Crowded Market  Investment banks and other lenders crowded into the market
in 2010 with a recovery on the horizon after sales plummeted to
$3.4 billion in 2009 from a record $232 billion in 2007,
Bloomberg data show. Demand had dried up after losses on U.S.
subprime home loan bonds sparked the global financial crisis.  The number of institutions seeking to package commercial
mortgages to sell as bonds ballooned to 25 in December 2010,
compared with five a year earlier,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a
report at the time.  The revival has been elusive, even as commercial-property
prices rose 4.3 percent in the first quarter of 2012 compared
with the same period last year, according to Washington-based
research firm  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP)  Valuations are still 34.5
percent below the 2007 peak and are at about the same level as
in 2003.  The CMBS market has shrunk to $553 billion from $732
billion in December 2007, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  Credit Suisse Shuttered  Credit Suisse Group AG shuttered its unit dedicated to
originating commercial-property loans to bundle for sale as
bonds in October, firing as many as 50 people. The move marked
the second time the Zurich-based bank pulled the plug on the
U.S. unit in the span of three years. The lender, one of the
most prolific originators during the boom years, hasn’t
completed a deal since 2008.  Cortview Capital Holdings Inc., a broker-dealer backed by
Warburg Pincus LLC, jettisoned a commercial-mortgage bond team
in September, six months after hiring a group led by  Bill Green ,
the former global head of real-estate capital markets at
Wachovia Corp.  Price swings in CMBS have become more exaggerated, even as
the market has improved, making it harder for banks to increase
issuance. Insurers, government agencies and lenders not planning
on parceling the debt are beating out  Wall Street  to provide
loans to the best borrowers.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold top-ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries climbed 16
basis points this month to 202 basis points, or 2.01 percentage
points, according to the Barclays Capital CMBS AAA Super Duper
Index. The spread, which has decreased from 323 in October, is
at about the same level as a year ago.  “As long as this instability persists, the direction of
the CMBS market will be heavily influenced by general global
financial market developments and macro-led volatility,”
Credit Suisse analysts led by Roger Lehman in  New York  wrote in
a report today.  The level on top-ranked debt maturing in about 10 years
stayed within a 10 basis-point range from November 2004 through
July 2007, yielding between 20 and 30 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate at issuance, Jefferies data show.  The spread on similar securities sold since the market
revived in 2010 was as narrow as 100 basis points in February of
last year and as wide as 200 in August, according to Nomura.  Goldman Sachs,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Jefferies sold about $1.5
billion of bonds last week, including top-ranked debt paying 140
basis points more than the benchmark swap rate, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, after initially marketing the debt
to pay 115.  Deutsche Bank and Cantor Fitzgerald LP issued securities
the same day to pay a 135 basis-point spread. That compares with
120 on debt sold by  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  last month.  Volatility Index  Demand for the debt decreased as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s
Market Risk cross-asset  volatility index  last week jumped the
most since January amid investor concern that Greece may leave
the euro area and global economic growth is slowing.  “Given how correlation across all asset classes is much
higher now than it was pre-Lehman, the volatility is going to be
here for years and it is going to translate into new issue
pricing,” said Andrew Solomon, a managing director in New York
at Angelo Gordon & Co. “The thing that is still missing is an
effective means to allow originators to hedge that risk.”  Banks lining up sales could hold back from issuing deals
until volatility subsides, according to Pendergast of Jefferies.
Deutsche Bank,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among banks planning about $6
billion in June offerings, Citigroup said in a May 18 report,
citing industry newsletter Commercial Mortgage Alert.  Issuance Forecasts  Forecasts for 2012 issuance range from Wells Fargo’s $25
billion to Credit Suisse’s projection of as much as $45 billion.  Jefferies is sticking with a $40 billion estimate because
 mortgage rates  remain below 5 percent, which is sufficient to
attract borrowers, Pendergast said. Recent volatility could
“slow things down,” she said.  Nomura, which at the start of the year said $27 billion to
$32 billion of so-called conduit deals will be issued--
transactions that pool loans from multiple borrowers--expects it
to be at the lower end, Lea Overby, a New York-based analyst at
the bank, said in an e-mail this week.  “For the CMBS market to be fully functional as a first
choice for borrowers, we need to get to a point where there is
more consistency in the terms that originators can offer and
deliver,” said Scott Singer, a principal at the Singer & Bassuk
Organization LLC, a real-estate firm that represents property
owners and developers arranging financing. “The originators
have their eyes on the trading screen, the market is continuing
to evolve for the better, but it’s a roller coaster ride along
the way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  