-- What I Learned on My Junket to China
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-05-24T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/what-i-learned-on-my-junket-to-china.html
China Daily , the largest English-
language newspaper in China, carried a front-page headline last
week: “Village Gratitude Shows Integrity of Task.”  Not clear what that’s about, and the  opening sentence  isn’t
much help: “On a hot afternoon, Zhou Yi picked up a bag of
freshly boiled eggs that had been left on the doorstep of the
committee office in Chaqulak village in the Xinjiang Uygur
autonomous region.” I figured this must be some feel-good story
(of the sort that even U.S. papers sometimes cannot resist)
about the noble, uncorrupted country folk quietly taking care of
the less fortunate in their midst.  But read on. It turns out that Zhou Yi is not a local
homeless man dependent on the generosity of his fellow peasants
who have little enough for themselves, et cetera. He is one of a
group of “regional-level officials sent to live in Chaqulak as
part of an initiative to provide officials with first-hand
experience of working at the grassroots.” The officials were
grateful for the eggs. Apparently they don’t get a per diem.  A program to send bureaucrats out into the countryside to
see what real work is like? It’s possible the story is not so
simple, and maybe the  China  Daily has an agenda here. But it
sure sounds like the sort of thing that went on during Mao Zedong’s Cultural Revolution of 1966-1976, doesn’t it? The
founding editor of China Daily himself spent nine years doing
menial work on a farm somewhere before he was allowed to return
to Beijing.  The Capitalist Road  I thought that stuff didn’t happen anymore. In 1979, just
three years after the Cultural Revolution collapsed,  Deng Xiaoping  reversed course. China started down the Capitalist
Road, with stunning results that any visitor can see: small
towns converted to huge cities with millions of people living in
high-rises, driving cars (or taking the new subways) instead of
riding bikes, and choking on pollution, but nevertheless happy
to be enjoying the fruits of a free-market economy.  Yet the Communist Party retains absolute political power
(although there are now real elections at the village level,
with multiple candidates and all the fixin’s). In fact, the
party takes credit for reforming the economy -- and may even
deserve it.  So how do all these pieces fit together? How free is the
average Chinese citizen now? How much communism is left in the
Communist party? Will free-market capitalism inevitably lead to
democracy? Or have the Chinese discovered some new Confucian
synthesis of free markets and authoritarian rule?  These are the kind of questions that an American visitor to
China will naturally have. After eight days there (in a small
group of journalists whose way was paid by a foundation funded
by a Hong Kong billionaire), I now have all the answers.  Actually, whatever insights I may have gained during my
visit to China came mostly from reading James Fallows’s new
book, “ China Airborne ,” on the plane coming home. Fallows spent
several years in China with the explicit and full-time purpose
of trying to understand it. He writes that to talk about “China”
(population 1.3 billion) as a single entity is absurd:  “When acting on the international stage, or when imposing
some internal political rules, the central government can
operate as a coordinated entity. But most of the time, visitors
-- and Chinese people too -- see vividly and exclusively the
little patch of ‘China’ that is in front of them, with only a
guess as to how representative it might be of happenings
anywhere else.”  Fortunately, while Fallows was learning about China first
hand, I was back in  Washington  taking an advanced course in
guesswork at the National Punditry Institute. So here is my best
guess about China: Twenty-three years after the fall of the
 Berlin Wall , it’s pretty well established that freedom and
democracy really are universal appetites. Everybody wants them,
with no special exemption for Asian cultures.  The Capitalism Dash  But would you give up your right to vote in exchange for a
job in the city, indoor plumbing, a TV, a car? That’s what many
Chinese people believe their country is doing: moving slowly to
introduce democracy in order not to interfere with the mad dash
to capitalism.  The Chinese are still ruled by a regime that killed
millions in defense of a philosophy it no longer believes in.
But now it rules with a lighter and somewhat whimsical touch.  An older dissident type told us that young adults didn’t
even know about the events 23 years ago in  Tiananmen Square . We
asked a bunch of college students. They giggled and snorted: Of
course they knew about Tiananmen Square. Would they write about
it in the school paper? More snorting: Of course not. They
seemed perfectly comfortable with the anomaly, maybe because
they think it won’t last.  Even more comfortable was a huge manufacturing company that
had set up a series of inspirational posters near the front
door. Most of them were filled with familiar business school
babble about corporate culture. In this environment, one poster
about the important role of the Communist Party stood out. And
in fact the Party had supplied funds to get this company
started. In every other respect, it seemed just like a big
company anywhere in the capitalist world. (And I was there for
more than 45 minutes, listening to a discussion in a foreign
language, so I know.)  The best known bit of totalitarian-style repression in
China is the notorious “one child” policy. One child per married
couple is still the rule, but it is enforced somewhat
sporadically. Exceptions are sprouting: If you are an only child
of your parents, you yourself may have more than one. Some
people who can afford it just pay the fine as a cost of having
children. Meanwhile, China faces a shortage of working-age
people to support a growing number of old folks. So even putting
ethical issues aside, the whole thing looks like a mistake. It
won’t last.  Yes, the Chinese Communist Party continues to do terrible
things -- as the case of  Chen Guangcheng   demonstrates . But the
Party also seems to function as sort of a Rotary Club that you
join if you want to get ahead in China’s raucous, utterly non-
Communist economy.  (Michael Kinsley is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  eradicating polio  and
 Obama’s military strategy ; Stephen L. Carter on  Romney and
Harvard’s faculty lounge ;  Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan Chase’s odd
disclosure ; William Pesek on  Asia’s lessons for Europe ; Matthew
Bryza on why  Azerbaijan deserves a song contest ; Andrew
Katzenstein and Scott Bowman on  Eduardo Saverin’s tax
implications .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Michael Kinsley  at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 