-- WilmerHale, Jones Day, Dechert: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/wilmerhale-jones-day-dechert-business-of-law.html
U.S. Attorney Patrick J. Fitzgerald
in Chicago, the chief federal prosecutor in the Northern
District of  Illinois  since Sept. 1, 2001, said he will step
down, effective June 30.  During his decade-long tenure, the appointee of Republican
President George W. Bush won convictions of two Illinois
governors, Republican George Ryan and Democrat Rod Blagojevich,
newspaper publisher Conrad Black, and Bush White House aide I.
Lewis “Scooter” Libby.  “His aggressive prosecution of wrongdoing -- including
politicians in both parties -- has given fair warning that no
one is above the law,” Richard Durbin, the U.S. senator from
Illinois, said in a statement on the prosecutor’s announcement.  Fitzgerald, 51, who scheduled a press conference for today,
has no immediate employment plans and “will take time off this
summer before considering career options,” according to a
Justice Department statement.  JPMorgan Hires Ex-SEC Enforcer McLucas in Loss Investigation  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, hired former
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement chief
William McLucas to help respond to regulatory probes of the
firm’s $2 billion trading loss.  The lender retained Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr
LLP, where McLucas is a partner, shortly after the bank
disclosed the loss on May 10, said  Kristin Lemkau , a spokeswoman
for New York-based JPMorgan.  The probes began after JPMorgan traders in London built up
positions in illiquid credit derivatives that were so large they
distorted market prices and eventually led to what Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  called “self-inflicted” losses
that may grow. That spurred reviews by the SEC, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency and Federal Bureau of Investigation.  “Our focus right now is on whether the company’s public
disclosure and financial reporting is accurate,” SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  said May 22 in congressional testimony. “The
agencies collectively, including the criminal authorities, are
working very hard to untangle what happened at the firm.”  The SEC is reviewing the accuracy and timing of JPMorgan’s
disclosure of changes in how it calculates value-at-risk, or
VaR, which shows how much it could lose from trading most days,
Schapiro said. The bank changed its VaR model for the chief
investment office during the first quarter without telling
investors. The new model, which has since been scrapped, had cut
the risk estimation almost in half, Dimon told investors May 10.  McLucas, 61, led the SEC’s enforcement division from 1989
to 1998 and represented board committees in the collapses of
Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc. He didn’t reply to a phone call
and e-mail seeking comment.  The losses occurred in a portfolio of credit investments
overseen in London by JPMorgan’s chief investment office, which
manages risks. The company used a trading strategy that was
“flawed, complex, poorly conceived, poorly vetted and poorly
executed,” Dimon, 56, has said.  JPMorgan’s general counsel and most senior lawyer,  Stephen Cutler , also previously served as the head of enforcement at the
SEC. Cutler, 50, worked with McLucas at WilmerHale from 2005 to
2007, before JPMorgan hired him.  Jones Day, Gunderson Dettmer Work on SAP-Ariba Deal  SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of enterprise-applications
software, agreed to buy  Ariba Inc. (ARBA)  for $4.3 billion in the
German company’s second multibillion purchase in cloud computing
to take on  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   Jones Day represented SAP. Leading the Jones Day team are
partners Daniel Mitz in the Silicon Valley office and Jonn
Beeson in the  Irvine , California, office. Also on the deal were
antitrust partners Phil Proger in Washington, Craig Waldman in
 San Francisco  and Thomas Jestaedt in Frankfurt; intellectual
property partner Warren Nachlis in  New York , tax partner Les Droller in Washington, labor partner Rick Bergstrom in Irvine,
government regulation partner Giovanna Cinelli in Washington and
benefits partner Brian Holmen in Irvine.  Partners David W. Van Horne, Brooks Stough and Sharon
Hendricks in the Redwood City, California, office and Gari
Cheever in the San Diego office of Gunderson Dettmer Stough
Villeneuve Franklin & Hachigan LLP represented Ariba. Hogan
Lovells LLP partners Logan Breed in Washington, Michele Harrington in Northern Virginia and Catriona Hatton in Brussels
provided antitrust advice to Ariba.  SAP will pay $45 a share, or 20 percent more than Ariba’s
May 21 closing price, Walldorf, Germany-based SAP said May 22.
The transaction, subject to approval by Ariba shareholders and
regulators, will probably be completed by the end of August, SAP
Chief Financial Officer Werner Brandt said on a conference call.  Ariba is the leader in cloud-based collaborative commerce
applications, counting  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Deutsche Bank AG
among customers it connects to more than 730,000 suppliers. As
competition in on-demand software intensifies, SAP has increased
its pace of acquisitions, last buying SuccessFactors Inc. in
December. With businesses increasingly choosing to store and
process data on the Web, SAP is shifting many of its staple
applications to the Internet.  For more on the deal, click here.  New Suits  Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Sued Over Facebook Stock Sale  The first lawsuits against  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and its bankers,
lead underwriter Morgan Stanley, as well as Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and JP Morgan Chase & Co. have been filed.  Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP was among the first law
firms to file a proposed class action, or group lawsuit, on
behalf of investors who have lost more than $2.5 billion since
the initial public offering last week.  The complaint was filed yesterday in Manhattan federal
court. It claims Facebook and the banks didn’t disclose lower
revenue estimates.  Also sued were units of  Bank of America Corp.  and Barclays
Plc and Facebook’s top executives and directors, according to
the filing. Facebook went public at $38 a share. While the stock
rose 1.5 percent and raised $16 billion in the IPO, it plunged
19 percent over two days.  “The true facts at the time of the IPO were that Facebook
was then experiencing a severe and pronounced reduction in
revenue growth,” the plaintiffs said in the complaint.  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Menlo Park,  California-based
Facebook , said in an e-mail: “We believe the lawsuit is without
merit and will defend ourselves vigorously.” Pen Pendleton,
Michael Duvally and Mark Lane, spokesmen for  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
Goldman Sachs and Barclays, respectively, declined to comment.
Representatives of JP Morgan and Bank of America didn’t
immediately return calls for comment.  Facebook’s revenue growth is declining because its greatest
growth is coming from users of mobile devices rather than
personal computers, according to the complaint. The company
hasn’t shown advertisements to people who gain access to the
website through mobile applications, according to the complaint.
Facebook booked 85 percent of its revenue from advertising in
2011, according to the suit.  The banks named in the suit reduced their estimates for
Facebook for the second quarter and full year of 2012 and didn’t
inform potential investors in presentations before the IPO, the
plaintiffs claimed.  “The underwriters took down their earnings estimates
dramatically during the road show and only told a select group
of investors,”  Samuel Rudman , a lawyer for the plaintiffs from
Robbins Geller, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  In a separate action, a Facebook investor sued Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. May 22 in the same court, saying the exchange “badly
mishandled” trades in Facebook stock, which resulted in delays
and a failure to complete customer orders.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has said it
will review the first day of trading in Facebook shares.  Also named as defendants in yesterday’s suit are Facebook’s
co-founder and chief executive officer,  Mark Zuckerberg , and its
chief financial officer, David Ebersman.  The underwriter case is Brian Roffe Profit Sharing Plan v.
Facebook, 12-04081, and the Nasdaq case is Goldberg v. Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc., 12-cv-04054, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Law Firm Moves  Dechert Opens Office in Chicago with Three Litigators  Dechert LLP has opened an office in  Chicago  with three
securities litigation partners: David H. Kistenbroker, Joni S.
Jacobsen and Carl E. Volz. All three had worked at Katten Muchin
Rosenman LLP.  Kistenbroker, who was managing partner of Katten’s Chicago
office and chairman of the firm’s Litigation and Dispute
Resolution practice, focuses on representing public companies,
as well as their directors and officers, in securities class
actions, SEC investigations and corporate governance matters.  Jacobsen and Volz also represent public companies, as well
as their directors and officers in securities actions,
directors’ and officers’ liability actions, SEC investigations,
corporate governance disputes and other complex commercial
litigation.  Dechert has 25 offices throughout the U.S., Europe, Asia
and the Middle East.  Akin Gump Adds Hedge Fund Lawyer in Its New York Office  Kelli L. Moll has joined the New York office of Akin Gump
Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP as a partner. The firm announced that
Moll, who previously was a partner in the New York office of
Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP, will head Akin Gump’s hedge fund
practice in New York.  Moll represents investment managers in all aspects of their
business, focusing primarily on hedge fund and private equity
fund formation, regulatory advice, seed capital arrangements and
partnership arrangements among principals, according to a
statement from Akin Gump.  Akin Gump has more than 850 attorneys in offices throughout
the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  McCarter & English Adds Patent Litigator in Delaware Office  Thomas A. Stevens, assistant general counsel for global IP
litigation at AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals and formerly a senior
deputy attorney general in Delaware’s Department of Justice, has
joined McCarter & English LLP as a partner in the firm’s
intellectual property and information technology practice.  Stevens will specialize in Hatch-Waxman patent-infringement
actions relating to pharmaceutical and biotechnology products
and other litigation matters. He will be based in the firm’s
Wilmington, Delaware, office.  At AstraZeneca, Stevens served as senior legal manager in
patent litigation cases involving the company’s best-selling
drugs in the U.S., Canada and other global markets.  McCarter & English, based in Newark,  New Jersey , has 400
attorneys in Boston, Connecticut, New York, Newark, Wilmington
and Philadelphia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  