-- Yahoo Adds ‘Axis’ Mobile-Browsing Tool to Narrow Google’s Lead
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-24T00:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/yahoo-adds-axis-mobile-browsing-tool-to-narrow-google-s-lead.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the largest U.S. Web
portal, is unveiling a browser for smartphones and tablet
computers that aims to simplify searches on mobile devices as
the company looks for new ways to woo users.  The “Yahoo! Axis” browser, which will work initially on
Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad, gives surfers small previews of
the websites at the top of the screen so users don’t have to
leave the page they’re on while still interacting with query
results. Yahoo also is unveiling a browser plug-in version for
desktop browsers, including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Chrome and newer
versions of Apple’s Safari.  Yahoo, struggling to keep users on its site amid management
changes and a board realignment, is rolling out the service as
it grapples with competition from larger providers. Google had
67 percent of the U.S. search-engine market on desktops in
April, while Microsoft Corp.’s Bing had 15 percent, according to
ComScore Inc. Yahoo, which is powered by Bing, had 14 percent.  “We’ve been hard at work making the next big step in
search and changing the landscape of search,” said Shashi Seth,
a senior vice president in charge of search products at Yahoo.
“This product clearly will demonstrate that.”  While the product will be introduced on Apple devices,
other versions could be added in the future, possibly Google’s
Android, he said.  Axis, which looks similar to other browsers, enables users
to swipe through search results and requires fewer clicks. Using
a login, Axis also remembers users’ recent searches and
bookmarks regardless of what device is being accessed.  The product roll-out comes after the company named Ross
Levinsohn interim-chief executive officer earlier this month.
Former CEO  Scott Thompson  stepped down after failing to correct
errors in his academic credentials. Meanwhile, Fred Amoroso
became chairman of the Sunnyvale, California-based company,
replacing Roy Bostock, the non-executive chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  