-- Zloty Gains Most Since March as Polish Government Plans to Buy
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-05-24T15:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-24/zloty-snaps-two-day-slump-as-poland-to-sell-foreign-currencies.html
Poland ’s zloty strengthened the most
in more than two months after the  Finance Ministry  said it will
buy the currency in the market this year.  The zloty appreciated as much as 1.2 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since March 8. It traded up 0.9 percent to 4.3504
per euro by 5:04 p.m. in Warsaw, paring May losses to 4 percent.  Poland expects to sell the equivalent of 11 billion euros
($13.8 billion) of foreign currencies through the market, about
the same amount it exchanged in 2011, Deputy Finance Minister
 Dominik Radziwill  said late yesterday in Sopot, Poland. Recent
zloty losses are a by-product of the euro’s weakening, he said.  Radziwill “is reminding the market that the ministry will
be there in the background, so don’t sell the zloty too
aggressively,” Timothy Ash, London-based chief emerging-markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in e-mailed
comments. “This is a normal process in Poland and does not
reflect a new, more aggressive policy towards intervention.”  The zloty slumped 1.5 percent in the previous two sessions,
driving the 14-day relative strength index for the zloty-euro
pair to 27 at yesterday’s close. Readings below 30 suggest in
technical analysis an asset may gain. The RSI rose to 36 today.  The euro traded near the weakest since July 2010 against
the dollar after German data showed business confidence declined
in the continent’s largest economy and manufacturing shrank,
stoking concern fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis is spreading.  Polish  government bonds  gained today, lowering  five-year
generic  yields compiled by Bloomberg by five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 5.07 percent. The yield jumped 18
basis points in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  