-- Abu Dhabi Aldar Board to Discuss Sale of Some Assets, Projects This Month
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2011-12-26T09:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/abu-dhabi-aldar-board-to-discuss-sale-of-some-assets-projects-this-month.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) ’s board will
meet to discuss the sale of some assets later this month as the
emirate’s biggest real estate company searches for funding to
cope with waning demand for property. The shares fell for the
first time in three days.  The developer said its board will meet on Dec. 28 to
discuss the sale of the unspecified assets and will also tackle
“operational matters relating to the company and its
projects,” according to a statement to Abu Dhabi’s bourse.  “Most likely these assets will be sold to Abu Dhabi’s
government as the company completes implementing the rescue plan
announced earlier this year,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief
investment officer at Capm Investment PJSC in  Abu Dhabi . “The
plan is being implemented in stages and this could be simply the
finalization of it before year-end.”  Aldar was hurt when property values and rents slumped in
the  United Arab Emirates  after banks curtailed lending and
speculators pulled out due to the global credit crunch.  Home
prices  in Abu Dhabi, the U.A.E. capital, may drop 30 percent
more after declining as much as 55 percent from the market’s
peak in mid-2008, according to Dubai-based Rasmala Investment
Bank Ltd.  Aldar’s Deputy Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Khalifa Al Mubarak declined to comment today when asked if the government
was the party interested in buying Aldar’s assets.  Aldar, which is building thousands of homes and offices on
Abu Dhabi’s Al Raha Beach and Yas Island, agreed in January to
sell assets including a Ferrari theme park and convertible bonds
to the Abu Dhabi government for 19.2 billion dirhams ($5.2
billion) to pay creditors. On Dec. 15, Aldar said it will
convert 2.1 billion dirhams worth of bonds issued to Mubadala
Development Co. under the plan into shares at 1.75 dirhams each.  The shares fell 3.5 percent to 82 fils at 1:13 p.m. in Abu
Dhabi. They have slumped 64 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  