-- Bank of Israel Holds Benchmark Interest Rate at 2.75% as Economy Expands
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2011-12-26T16:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/bank-of-israel-retains-key-rate-at-2-75-in-pause-from-monetary-loosening.html
The  Bank of Israel  left its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged after reducing it twice in
three months, saying the economy was expanding and policy makers
want to retain their ability to react to future developments.  The monetary policy committee, led by Governor  Stanley Fischer , held the rate at 2.75 percent, the Jerusalem-based
central bank said on its website today. Eight of 20 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg forecast the decision, while 12 predicted
a quarter-point decrease.  “Fischer prefers not to use up his ammunition too
quickly,” said Yair Drori, chief analyst at Tachlit-Discount
Portfolio Management Ltd. “Fischer is likely to lower the
interest rate two or three times in the coming six months in
line with economic developments in  Israel  and abroad.”  The central bank said in today’s decision that it was
reducing its Israel growth forecast for next year to 2.8 percent
from a September prediction of 3.2 percent, citing the European
debt crisis. Fischer said Dec. 7 that the bank was likely to
lower its forecast to “around” the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development’s 2.9 percent prediction.  “Indicators of economic activity in Israel continue to
support the assessment that the economy is still expanding,
although more slowly than at the beginning of the year and
during last year,” the central bank said today. The current
rate “leaves the bank room to react to developments,” it said.  Slowing Inflation  Consumer prices rose 2.6 percent in November from a year
earlier, the lowest increase in a year, Israel’s Central Bureau
of Statistics said Dec. 15.  The shekel strengthened to 3.7724 a dollar at 5:46 p.m. in
Tel Aviv from 3.7770 just before the decision.  Two-year  interest-rate  swaps, an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, were unchanged at 2.47.  Economists’ 12-month  inflation expectations  declined to 2.2
percent from 2.3 percent a month earlier, the central bank
reported Dec. 19. The government’s target range for inflation is
1 percent to 3 percent.  The central bank last cut its benchmark lending rate in
November, lowering it by a quarter point. While Israel passed
through the 2008-2009 crisis in “reasonable shape,” the
economy is now being affected by the worsening global outlook
and the Bank of Israel was justified in switching to a loosening
monetary stance, the OECD said Dec. 12.  “The economic indicators are demonstrating quite strong
growth,” Ron Eichel, chief economist at Meitav Mutual Fund
Management in  Tel Aviv , said prior to the decision. “It’s not a
recession mode and the interest rate is quite low. The Bank of
Israel is already in a very accommodative stance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  