-- Berbatov Scores Three to Help Manchested United Draw Level With Man. City
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-12-26T18:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/berbatov-scores-3-to-help-manchester-united-draw-level-with-man-city.html
Dimitar Berbatov scored three goals
as  Manchester United  joined Manchester City atop the Premier
League with a 5-0 win over Wigan. City was held 0-0 by West
Bromwich Albion.  United has now scored 10 goals in its last two matches and
Berbatov, who’s been overlooked for much of the season, has
scored four of them. City allowed United to make up two points
after failing to score for the first time in a Premier League
game this season.  “The result pleases me considering the injuries,” United
manager  Alex Ferguson  said in a televised interview with Sky
Sports after the game. “We’ve had 10 players missing and young
Jonny Evans was taken off at half time. If it had been a closer
game we’d have been worried about that.”  City now leads United by goal difference with both teams on
45 points after 18 games. Tottenham is ten points further back
having played two fewer matches.  Earlier in the day, American  Clint Dempsey  foiled fourth
place Chelsea’s hopes of closing the gap on the top two by
canceling out Juan Mata’s strike to give Fulham a 1-1 draw at
Stamford Bridge. Arsenal, which plays Wolves tomorrow, can move
above Chelsea into fourth with a victory.  Last-place Blackburn tied Liverpool 1-1 at Anfield,
Newcastle beat Bolton 2-0 and Sunderland and Everton finished 1-
1. Stoke hosts Everton in the evening kick-off.  Alterations  Ferguson named midfielders Michael Carrick and  Antonio Valencia  in his defense because of injuries. The alterations
didn’t affect his team, which took the lead through Park Ji- Sung. Valencia was the other scorer in a match played against
10-men after Wigan’s Conor Samon was sent off in the first half.  Manchester City  failed to extend its lead after failing to
find a way past ninth-place West Brom. Striker  Mario Balotelli 
went closest with a strike that hit the bar in the 53rd minute.
West Brom also hit the woodwork late on through winger Jerome Thomas.  “When you a play a team with all players behind the ball
at home, if you don’t score in the first half it’s not easy, you
don’t have any space,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  said.
“When we have a chance we should score but maybe we were too
slow in the first half. It is impossible to score three or four
goals for 38 games.”  Chelsea’s Mata scored within two minutes of the start of
the second half with a shot following a layoff from  Fernando Torres . Dempsey equalized from close range after Bryan Ruiz’s
near-post cross. Chelsea mounted a late siege on the visitor’s
goal, but found no way through goalkeeper David Stockdale who
produced a series of saves.  “The title will be pretty difficult now,” said Chelsea
manager Andre Villas-Boas. “The distance by the end of today
could make it very hard for us to challenge for the title.”  Own-Goal  Blackburn manager  Steve Kean  was forced into deploying
reserve goalkeeper Mark Bunn after losing Paul Robinson. The
keeper kept out Andy Carroll’s effort in the last minute of
injury time to give his team a point. Blackburn took the lead
through Charlie Adam’s own-goal before  Maxi Rodriguez  headed
Liverpool level.  “In the second half, sometimes you need great saves and
lucky breaks,” said Kean. Liverpool has now tied six games at
home.  Demba Ba and Hatem Ben Arfa scored second-half goals for
Newcastle against Bolton, which has the worst defensive record
in the league with 41 goals against in 18 games. At Sunderland,
a Leighton Baines penalty for Everton canceled out Jack
Colback’s deflected first half opener.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 