-- Brazil to Remain Ahead of U.K. as Economy Now Sixth in World, Mantega Says
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2011-12-26T20:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/brazil-to-remain-ahead-of-u-k-as-economy-now-sixth-in-world-mantega-says.html
Brazil  will remain one of the
fastest-growing nations in the coming years after overtaking the
U.K. this year to become the world’s sixth-largest economy, the
country’s Finance Minister Guido Mantega said.  “The countries that will grow the most are the  emerging
markets  such as Brazil,  China , India and Russia,” Mantega said
in a statement published on the finance ministry’s  web site ,
referring to findings by the London-based Center for Economics
and Business Research, or CEBR. “The trend is for Brazil to
remain one of the world’s top economies.”  The CEBR echoed forecasts earlier this year by the
 International Monetary Fund  showing that Brazil’s $2.5 trillion
economy had overtaken the U.K. to become the world’s sixth-
largest. The IMF expects Brazil to climb past  France  to become
the fifth-largest economy by 2016.  While Brazil’s economic growth is forecast to slow from 7.5
percent in 2010 to 3 percent this year, that’s still faster than
the 0.9 percent growth economists expect from the U.K.,
according to Bloomberg surveys.  Brazil’s emergence as an economic power has bolstered the
country’s demands for more say in multilateral lending
institutions, such as the IMF, and for a permanent seat on the
United Nations Security Council.  Rising real wages and a boom in credit have also fueled
demand by Brazilian consumers in recent years, with an emerging
middle class going on a shopping spree for new cars and
refrigerators.  Foreign companies are seeking to profit from the nation’s
growing pie. Foreign direct investment has jumped to a near-
record $75 billion in the 12 months through November, up from
$38 billion a year earlier, according to the central bank.  Even while Brazil’s growth outlook looks assured, the
country has much to do to improve living conditions, Mantega
said today.  “European countries have much higher per capita income
than we do,” the 62 year-old former economics professor said.
“We’ll need 10, 20 years to reach European standards.”  While Brazil’s population of 191 million inhabitants is
more than three times that of the U.K., its gross domestic
product per capita based on purchasing power parity is roughly
one-third, according to the  World Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 Agalvao1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 Jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 