-- Cameron Loses Appeal to Scuttle BP Gulf Spill Trial Plan
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2011-12-27T18:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/cameron-loses-appeal-to-scuttle-bp-gulf-spill-trial-plan.html
Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  lost its
appeal to derail the February nonjury trial over which companies
should be blamed for the 2010  BP Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico.  A panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the 5th Circuit
rejected Cameron’s claim that U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier 
wrongly cited maritime law to allow him to conduct a nonjury
trial over liability for the incident. Cameron contended that
claims against the company fall under the federal Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act, which allows for a jury trial.  “The district court did not clearly err in concluding that
the limitation proceeding is within the court’s admiralty
jurisdiction,” the three-judge panel said in a one-paragraph
decision yesterday. The court rejected review of other issues
raised by Cameron.  Cameron asked the appeals court to throw out the existing
trial plan and rule that the company has a right to a trial
before a jury. Yesterday’s ruling removes a possible obstacle to
the nonjury trial before Barbier that is scheduled to begin Feb.
27 in  New Orleans  to determine liability and apportion fault.  Damage Claims  Barbier plans two subsequent nonjury phases on the size of
the spill and efforts to contain it. Test jury trials on damages
would follow, the judge said. Cameron, which settled damage
claims with BP this month, said the trial plan violates its
constitutional rights.  “There is not a claim against Cameron that does not
implicate our right to a jury trial under the Seventh
Amendment,”  Russell Post , a Cameron attorney, told the judges
at the hearing Dec. 22 in federal court in Dallas. That
 amendment  to the U.S. Constitution guarantees citizens’ and
companies’ rights to jury trials in civil disputes.  “We’re going to decline to comment,”  Rhonda Barnat , a
spokeswoman for Cameron, said today.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and  explosion  killed 11
workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.
The accident spawned hundreds of lawsuits against  BP  and its
partners, including Cameron,  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Switzerland-
based owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig
that exploded, and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing
services.  Combined Suits  The lawsuits for injuries, economic and environmental loss
are combined before Barbier in New Orleans. The judge has cited
maritime laws as the basis for his decision to review liability
issues without a jury.  Houston-based Cameron reported Dec. 16 that it had agreed
to pay BP $250 million in exchange for the oil company’s
indemnifying it from damage claims. The settlement doesn’t cover
fines or penalties or punitive damages.  The appeals case is In re: Cameron International, 11-30987,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. The lawsuits are
combined in In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in
the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 