-- Chelsea Set for $234 Million Transfer Spending, Sun Reports: U.K. Soccer
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-12-26T11:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/chelsea-set-for-234-million-transfer-spending-sun-reports-u-k-soccer.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Chelsea Cash Pot  Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich will hand manager Andre
Villas-Boas 150 million pounds ($234 million) to spend on new
players, the  Sun  reported.  The cash may be spent on Napoli duo Edinson Cavani and
Marek Hamsik, who’d cost a combined 80 million pounds, the
newspaper said.  The first player to join the Blues in January will be
Bolton defender  Gary Cahill  for 7 million pounds, the Sun said.  QPR’s Samba  Queen’s Park Rangers are planning to make an 8 million-
pound bid for Blackburn’s central defender Christopher Samba,
the  Daily Mail  reported.  Manager Neil Warnock has made a new defender a priority in
the January transfer window after being told by the team’s
owners he has up to 20 million pounds to spend, the newspaper
said.  Giggs for Wales?  Wales wants  Ryan Giggs  to replace Gary Speed as manager of
the national soccer team, the Sun  reported .  Speed took his own life last month and Welsh officials
won’t make an announcement before the New Year out of respect
for the former manager’s family, the newspaper said.  Mancini’s New Contract  Manchester City manager Roberto Mancini’s representatives
have opened talks with the club about extending the Italian’s
contract, the  Mirror  reported.  Mancini will become the Premier League’s highest paid
manager with his new 5 million-pound annual contract, the
newspaper said.  Bent Exit?  Aston Villa manager Alex McLeish said he may consider
selling England national team striker  Darren Bent , the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  QPR is interested in signing Bent, who cost 18 million
pounds from Sunderland a year ago, the  Mirror  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 