-- China Arrests Southwest Securities Executive Ji in Crackdown on Misconduct
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-26T06:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/china-arrests-southwest-securities-executive-amid-crackdown-on-misconduct.html
China ’s  securities regulator 
released details of its efforts to fight trading misconduct,
including the arrest of a  Southwest Securities Co. (600369)  executive, as
part of its “zero tolerance” campaign against wrongdoing.  Ji Minbo, a vice president at Southwest Securities, was
arrested on allegations he gained 20 million yuan ($3.2 million)
by using undisclosed information to trade more than 40 stocks
from 2009 to 2011, the  China Securities Regulatory Commission 
said in a Dec. 23 statement on its website. The case was one of
five disclosed by the regulator, which released details about
six other fraud cases two weeks earlier.  China has tightened oversight of its two-decade-old stock
market, including by prosecuting government officials,
executives and fund managers. The securities regulator’s newly
appointed chairman,  Guo Shuqing , pledged “zero tolerance” this
month for  insider trading  and  securities fraud  in the world’s
third-biggest equities market.  Southwest Securities has yet to find any loopholes after
“combing through” its internal control and proprietary-trading
procedures, Xu Mingdi, the Chongqing-based company’s board
secretary, said in a telephone interview today. The case relates
to Ji’s “personal problems,” said Xu, who is based in Beijing.  Shares of Southwest Securities gained 1.2 percent to 8.20
yuan in Shanghai trading as of 1:17 p.m. local time. The
benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.4 percent.  The other investigations disclosed by the securities
regulator on Dec. 23 included a case that involved the leaking
of information about an acquisition and another in which analyst
recommendations were used to manipulate shares.  Two weeks ago, the securities regulator released
information about investigations that included a case in which
conspirators manipulated the shares of 552 companies and
pocketed 426 million yuan of illegal gains.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Dingmin Zhang in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  