-- Cruzeiro do Sul Agrees to Buy 88.7% of Banco Prosper for $30 Million
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2011-12-27T15:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/cruzeiro-do-sul-agrees-to-acquire-88-7-of-banco-prosper-for-29-6-million.html
Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA, the
Brazilian lender downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service last
month because of funding difficulties, agreed to acquire control
of Banco Prosper SA for 55 million reais ($30 million).  Cruzeiro do Sul will acquire 88.7 percent of Prosper’s
capital, according to a regulatory filing yesterday. The deal
needs approval from  Brazil ’s central bank.  “We need to raise Prosper’s capital by at least 100
million reais to comply with Basel rules and to let Prosper
operate,” Fausto Guimaraes, Cruzeiro’s superintendent of
 investor relations  for the Sao Paulo-based company, said today
in a conference call. “Cruzeiro do Sul will boost Prosper’s
capital once the acquisition is approved by the central bank.”  Brazilian small- and mid-size banks such as Cruzeiro do Sul
and Prosper are facing a funding squeeze because of  Europe ’s
debt crisis and the bailout of Banco Panamericano SA in November
2010. Moody’s cut Cruzeiro do Sul’s credit rating to Ba3, three
levels below investment grade, on Nov. 18, citing “increasing
competition” and the lender’s reliance on “higher-cost
guaranteed deposits and on expensive foreign funding.”  Brazil’s central bank changed liquidity rules Dec. 23 to
entice big lenders to purchase loan portfolios from smaller
banks. The monetary authority said it would allow banks to use
part of their required reserves to purchase credit portfolios
and bonds, known as letras financeiras, from lenders whose
capital doesn’t exceed 2.2 billion reais.  Cruzeiro do Sul dollar-denominated bonds due in 2020 were
unchanged at 10:51 a.m. New York time with yields at 19.39
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  