-- Dollar Index Falls Before U.S. Consumer Confidence, Manufacturing Reports
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2011-12-27T12:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/euro-declines-against-most-counterparts-before-italy-sells-government-debt.html
The Dollar Index slipped before
reports forecast to show U.S.  consumer confidence  and regional
manufacturing gauges rose, reducing demand for haven assets.  The 17-member euro was little changed against the dollar
before Italy sells bills and bonds this week as concern lingered
that Europe’s debt crisis will drive up borrowing costs. The
Swiss franc and the yen appreciated against the greenback.
 Thailand ’s baht weakened as investors reduced holdings of the
nation’s assets.  Risk-on sentiment “seems to be the side of least
resistance for the moment,” said  John Hardy , head of foreign-
exchange strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in London. “The surprise
side could be higher for euro-dollar, specifically because of
heavy short positioning there. That might depend on the Italian
bond auctions.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six U.S. trading partners, fell almost 0.1 percent
to 79.857 at 7:50 a.m. New York time, having slid 0.2 percent
last week. The euro was at $1.3063 and traded little changed at
101.73 yen. The dollar depreciated 0.1 percent to 77.87 yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  declined 0.2 percent after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted a 3.7 percent jump last week.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was little changed today.  The dollar has depreciated 1.2 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which
tracks 10 developed-nation currencies. The Australian dollar
advanced 3.9 percent, the most among the 10, the indexes show.  Consumer Confidence   An  index  of consumer confidence in the U.S. rose to 58.6
this month from 56 in November, according to the median estimate
of 61 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The New York-based
Conference Board publishes the figures today.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond may say the overall
 business activity index  for the central-Atlantic region climbed
to 5 in December from 0 last month, economists said.
 Manufacturing  in  Texas  increased to 4.5 this month from 3.2 in
November, another survey showed. Both Fed reports are due today.  “The  U.S. economy  is stronger than expected,” said
Junichi Ishikawa, a Tokyo-based market analyst at IG Markets
Securities Ltd. “That’s giving some support to stocks and risk
currencies. The dollar tends to be sold in the risk-on
environment.”  The dollar fell about 0.1 percent against the pound to
$1.5644. Against the franc, the greenback weakened 0.2 percent
to 93.44 centimes.  Haven Currency  A “few” Bank of  Japan  board members said financial-market
turmoil from the European debt crisis and the yen’s appreciation
were increasing risks for growth, according to a record of last
month’s board meeting released today.  The yen tends to gain during periods of financial stress as
Japan’s export-reliant economy doesn’t need foreign capital to
balance current accounts -- the broadest measure of trade. The
currency has strengthened against all 16 of its most-traded
peers this year, rising 4.2 percent against the dollar and 6.7
percent versus the euro.  Japanese officials  sold  at least 14.3 trillion yen this
year to stem gains that cut profits for exporters from Toyota
Motor Corp. to Nintendo Co., and Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  has
pledged more action. Intervention in 2012 may fail again as
financial turmoil attracts investors to the world’s third-most
traded currency for its low volatility.  ‘Avoiding Losses’  “When avoiding losses trumps profits during a period of
 risk aversion , low-volatility assets are very appealing,”
Masashi Murata, a currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co., said in an interview on Dec. 19. “When the U.S.
and  Europe  moved in a bad direction and people wanted to avoid
risk, the yen stood as the only currency that had enough
liquidity to absorb demand.”  Spain’s Economy and Competition Minister Luis de Guindos
said yesterday in Madrid the nation’s economy has suffered a
“relapse” and will contract as the  People’s Party  takes over
the nation’s finances from the Socialists. “The next two
quarters aren’t going to be easy,” he said.  Germany ’s government is revising its forecast for 1 percent
economic growth in 2012 and will present a lower figure in mid-
January, Focus magazine reported, without citing anyone.  The nation’s economy ministry denied the Focus report,
saying no decision has been made. An analysis of potential
growth is still ongoing, a spokeswoman said in an e-mailed
statement, declining to be identified, citing ministry policy.  Italy  is scheduled to sell 9 billion euros of 179-day bills
and as much as 2.5 billion euros of zero-coupon 2013 securities
tomorrow. It will auction debt due in 2014, 2018, 2021 and 2022
the following day.  Italian Auction  Ten-year bond  yields  in Italy advanced 6 basis points to
7.04 percent, above the 7 percent level that spurred  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.  “The markets are waiting to see how much demand there’ll
be for Italian debt,” said IG Markets’Ishikawa. “If the
results deepen doubts about Italy’s funding ability, they will
weigh on the euro.”  Futures traders increased their bets last week from a year
earlier that the euro will decline against the  U.S. dollar . The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those
on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 113,697 on Dec. 20.,
compared with 14,093 on Dec. 21, 2010.  Thailand’s currency weakened as overseas investors sold
$3.8 million more of Thai stocks than they bought yesterday,
bringing this year’s net sales to $200 million, according to
exchange data. The baht slid 0.5 percent to 31.44 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  