-- Fibria Gets Waiver on Loan Covenants After Brazil Currency Slump
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2011-12-26T12:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/fibria-gets-waiver-on-bank-loan-covenants-after-currency-slump-boosts-debt.html
Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3)  said banks
allowed it to exceed debt caps agreed on 2.5 billion reais
($1.35 billion) of loans without paying a waiver fee or higher
rates after a declining real boosted foreign obligations.  Banks increased debt-to-earnings limits through the second
quarter of 2012, Fibria said in a Dec. 23 statement, without
disclosing the new covenants. Accords with  Banco Santander SA ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  previously limited net
debt to four times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, or Ebitda, in the fourth quarter, Chief
Financial Officer Joao Elek Jr. said Oct. 26.  Fibria, the world’s largest pulp producer, renegotiated
covenants with banks as the Brazilian currency’s 17 percent
decline in the past five months boosts foreign liabilities in
local-currency terms. The Sao Paulo-based company’s net debt
reached 4.2 times Ebitda in the third quarter.  “The new limits were set at levels resilient to stress
scenarios,” Elek said in the statement.  The company said Dec. 20 it agreed to limit dividends to
the “mandatory minimum” of 25 percent of net income until July
2012, as part of covenant renegotiations with banks.  “In our view, leverage will continue to be an overhang in
the near term, although to a lesser extent,” Pedro Grimaldi, an
equity analyst at Barclays Plc who rates the stock
“underweight,” wrote in a note to clients dated Dec. 25.
Leverage will continue to curb “the company’s capacity to
grow.”  Fibria climbed 65 centavos, or 4.7 percent, to close at
14.45 reais on Dec. 23, the biggest rise in two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  