-- Fukushima Disaster Probe Places Regulator, Cellphones on List of Failures
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2011-12-27T04:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/fukushima-probe-highlights-nuclear-regulator-in-list-of-nuclear-failures.html
When engineering professor Yotaro Hatamura took the job of heading the independent investigation
into the Fukushima disaster, he said he was looking for lessons
rather than culprits. He may have changed his mind.  In a 507-page  report  published yesterday after a six-month
investigation, Hatamura reserves some of his strongest criticism
for  Japan ’s atomic power regulator, the Nuclear Industrial and
Safety Agency, known as NISA.  NISA officials left the Dai-Ichi nuclear plant after the
March 11 earthquake and when ordered to return by the government
provided little assistance to  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  staff
struggling to gain control of three melting reactors, according
to the report.  “Monitoring the plant’s status was the most important
action at that time, so to evacuate was very questionable,” the
report by Hatamura’s 10-member team concluded. The committee
found “no evidence that the NISA officials provided necessary
assistance or advice.” Even though NISA’s manual said to stay
at the plant, their manager gave the officials permission to
evacuate, according to the report, which doesn’t name the
manager.  The preliminary conclusions by Hatamura, who specializes in
studies of industrial accidents caused by design flaws and human
error, includes a slew of planning failures, breakdown in
communication and operational mistakes by Tokyo Electric and the
government before and after the earthquake and tsunami.  No Power  While the utility supplied the electricity that kept homes,
factories and offices running in metropolitan Tokyo, the world’s
biggest city, lack of preparation for  power failure  in the
Fukushima station left workers reduced to flashlights at the
864-acre plant site, the size of about 490 soccer fields.  Batteries in cell phones at the Fukushima plant started
running out on March 11 and with the failure of mains power
couldn’t be recharged, preventing communication with the on-site
emergency headquarters, according to the report.  Because the utility known as Tepco hadn’t considered a
tsunami overwhelming the Fukushima plant, no preparation was
made for “simultaneous and multiple losses of power” causing
station blackout, the document says. The blackout caused the
failure of all personal handyphone system units in the plant,
seriously disrupting communications among staff.  Fractured Communications  Communications became so fractured that plant manager Masao Yoshida, stationed in the emergency bunker, didn’t know what
some workers were doing. The high pressure coolant injection
system at the No. 3 reactor was stopped by a worker without
authority from plant managers, according to the report. The
reactor was one of the three that melted down.  In  Tokyo , the central government’s response was muddled by
miscommunication between two teams working on different floors
of the same building, the report said.  The report also criticized the government for failing to
use its system for monitoring the spread of radiation in
calculating evacuation areas. While the monitoring tool lacked
sufficient data for an accurate assessment because of
communication failures, its predictive functions should have
been used, the report said.  Withholding Information  The government also erred in keeping data on the spread of
radiation from the public. “Information on urgent matters was
delayed, press releases were withheld, and explanations were
kept ambiguous,” the report concluded.  The report by Hatamura, professor emeritus at  University of
Tokyo , serves as a time line for the chaos that ensued when the
record magnitude-9 earthquake knocked out power and buckled
roads before the tsunami flooded backup generators. Radiation
fallout from the reactors forced the evacuation of about 160,000
people. The government has yet to say how many can return and
when.  Jun Oshima, a spokesman for Tepco, declined to comment on
the report as the utility is checking the contents, he said.  Hotlines between the central control room and the reactor
buildings worked following the quake, while workers outside the
buildings could use a total of nine transceivers, spokesman
Masato Yamaguchi said yesterday. The company added 29
transceivers on March 13 and 80 more on March 15, Yamaguchi
said.  Failed Procedures  On NISA procedures, the report says the agency’s manual
called for inspectors to remain at Dai-Ichi in an emergency
while other officials head to the offsite emergency command
office 5 kilometers (3 miles) away in Okuma town.  By March 14, all eight NISA officials, who are unidentified
in the report, had left Dai-Ichi.  “The inspectors were in charge of gathering live
information on the site,” Hiroyuki Fukano, director-general of
NISA, told reporters in Tokyo last night. “It’s a serious
problem that they didn’t do their job, though it’s a matter of
NISA’s system, rather than individual inspectors,” said Fukano
who was appointed after the former head Nobuaki Terasaka was
fired in August.  Kazuma Yokota, NISA’s chief inspector at Dai-Ichi at the
time of the quake, said in an interview with Bloomberg News in
April he was one of three inspectors who left the plant 15
minutes after the temblor for Okuma. The three reached the
center in 15 minutes and found it wrecked, power down and no
working communications, he said.  ‘Unaware’  A person who answered a call to Yokota’s cell phone
yesterday said it was a wrong number. An official reached by
phone in NISA’s office in Fukushima said Yokota was not
available.  “People are often unaware of the functions of the
organizations they belong to,” Hatamura told reporters
yesterday. “If you don’t understand that function, you can’t
live up to the expectations that people put on your
organization. This is basically what happened at NISA after the
accident.”  Hatamura’s full report is expected in the summer of 2012,
when it will include interviews with former Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and other Cabinet officials. Those interviews weren’t
completed for the interim report due to time constraints,
according to a briefing by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry last week.  The committee interviewed 456 people over a total of 900
hours of hearings by Dec. 16, according to the report.  Running Away  Interviewing Kan may be necessary to reach a conclusion on
media reports that former Tepco President  Masataka Shimizu 
requested to evacuate all employees from the plant following the
disaster.  Tepco has denied it made that request, while Hatamura’s
report said the company was planning a “partial evacuation.”  Hatamura was appointed by the government in May to lead an
“impartial and multifaceted” investigation into the nuclear
accident, the worst since Chernobyl in 1986.  He received his Ph.D. in industrial mechanical engineering
from the University of Tokyo in 1973 and began studying human
error after finding his students were more interested in how
projects can go wrong, according to the publisher of his book
“Learning from Failure.”  The Failure Knowledge Database that he set up has studies
on more than 1,100 accidents, including a case study of  Tokyo
Electric  and its falsification of nuclear plant maintenance
records, which the utility admitted in 2002. The study concludes
the faked reports resulted from lack of quality control and
proper risk management.  The disaster at Dai-Ichi shows the need for a “paradigm
shift in the basic principles of disaster prevention” at
nuclear  power plants , Hatamura’s committee concluded in the
report. “It’s inexcusable that a nuclear accident couldn’t be
managed because a major event such as the tsunami exceeded
expectations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  