-- Libyan Crude Output Exceeds 1 Million Barrels a Day: Persian Gulf Oil
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2011-12-26T13:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/libyan-crude-output-exceeds-1-million-barrels-a-day-persian-gulf-oil.html
Iraqi  crude oil  production jumped to
the highest level in at least 20 years, or more than 3 million
barrels a day, said Hussain al-Shahristani, deputy prime
minister for energy affairs.  Libya, holder of Africa’s biggest crude reserves, is now
pumping “more than a million” barrels a day as its industry
recovers from months of conflict, said the Nuri Berruien,
chairman of its state-run National Oil Corp.  The following is a weekly summary of Persian Gulf crude and
product market news and forthcoming events:  Crude Oil  Iraq’s first single-point mooring facility for  oil tankers 
will begin operating in January, adding 900,000 barrels a day of
exporting capacity, al-Shahristani said in an interview on Dec.
22. A second unit will be in place within six months, a third
one by the end of next year and a fourth in 2013, he said.  “Iraq’s crude production will rise to 3.4 million barrels
a day by the end of next year, and exports will rise to 2.6
million barrels a day, including 175,000 barrels from fields in
the northern Kurdish region, next year from a current average of
2.2 million barrels of oil a day,” al-Shahristani said.  Libyan oil is entering the market as the U.S. and European
governments seek help from Arab and Asian allies to reduce
 Iran ’s oil revenue in the dispute over its nuclear program while
trying to avoid triggering a surge in prices that may threaten
the global economic recovery.  Iran will earn $110 billion from crude production in the
Iranian calendar year ending March 19, the state-run Mehr news
agency said, citing a member of the parliament’s economic
committee, Gholamreza Mesbahi-Moghadam. The country is pumping
20,000 barrels a day less in the current Iranian calendar year
than it did a year ago, Mehr reported, citing a deputy oil
minister.  Syrian production has fallen to about 260,000 barrels of
oil a day as sanctions curb its ability to sell crude, the
country’s oil minister said. The European Union suspended
imports of crude from  Syria  on Sept. 2, expanding sanctions
against President Bashar al-Assad’s government for its crackdown
on protesters. The embargo affects Syrian exports valued at 3.16
billion euros ($4.1 billion) in 2010, according to the European
Commission.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., also known as  Saudi Aramco , plans to
increase its drilling-rig count by 12 percent next year to 145
units to boost natural-gas and oil output from the Manifa field,
said Sadad al-Husseini, a former executive vice president for
exploration and development. Al-Husseini now runs Husseini
Energy, an independent energy consultant in Dhahran,  Saudi
Arabia .  Algeria raised the official selling price for Saharan Blend
crude, the country’s main export grade, to a premium of 85 cents
a barrel to Dated Brent from 70 cents in December, according to
an e-mail that state-owned  oil company   Sonatrach  sent to buyers
on Dec. 22.  Egyptian oil production averaged about 690,000 barrels a
day over the past 10 months, the country’s petroleum minister,
Abdalla Ghorab, told reporters in Cairo on Dec. 24 at a meeting
of the  Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries .  United Arab Emirates Oil Minister Mohamed Al-Hamli said a
crude export pipeline that bypasses the  Strait of Hormuz  will
start “very soon” and that oil demand in 2012 will be similar
to that of this year.  Light Products  Iran’s daily gasoline production will rise by 18 million
liters, or about 118,000 barrels, next year, state TV reported,
citing Alireza Zeighami, managing director of the National
Iranian Oil Refining and Distribution Co.  Iraq agreed to buy 1.5 million liters, or about 9,500
barrels, a day of gasoil from Iran for two years in an agreement
with a value of $350 million to $400 million, State Minister Ali
Al-Dabbagh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  