-- Hitachi Construction Says China 1st-Half Sales to Disappoint
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2011-12-26T06:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/hitachi-construction-says-china-first-half-sales-to-disappoint.html
Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (6305) ,
Japan’s second-largest heavy-equipment maker, said Chinese
demand for excavators will decline in the first half of next
year as monetary tightening slows construction projects.  The sales downturn in  China , the world’s biggest market for
construction equipment, “will continue after the Lunar New
Year” next month, Chief Executive Officer Michijiro Kikawa said
in an interview at the company’s headquarters in Tokyo. “I had
expected Chinese demand to come back sooner.”  Kikawa expects industry-wide sales of excavators in China
to decrease by 30 percent in the year to March 31, compared with
a forecast of a 20 percent decline two months ago. China will
probably see no growth until June or July, Kikawa said.  Hitachi Construction Machinery gets as much as 40 percent
of its annual sales in China in the first three months of the
Lunar New Year, which starts on Jan. 23 next year. The company
and competitors including  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  are counting on coal and
gas development projects in  Indonesia  and the U.S. and post-
quake rebuilding in Japan for orders as Chinese demand slows.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis also raises the threat of
the turmoil spreading to  Asia , Kikawa said. Europe’s woes
“haven’t impacted demand for our machinery, though we’ll need
to keep the risk in mind,” Kikawa said in the Dec. 22 interview.  China’s government has curbed lending and restricted home
purchases to rein in inflation and asset bubbles. The government
may next year start easing and increase spending on stimulus
measures to boost the economy before the appointment of a new
leadership, helping demand after mid-2012, Kikawa said.  Switching Focus  Hitachi Construction Machinery is focusing on mining-
equipment, a market that’s less competitive than construction
machinery because of the smaller number of makers, he said.  The company set a target to capture a 30 percent share of
the global market for large mining trucks by 2018 to challenge
Komatsu and Peoria, Illinois-based  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  Hitachi
Construction Machinery now has a 10 percent share for  dump
trucks  that can carry at least 190 metric tons. It has a 40
percent market share in mining excavators weighing at least 190
tons.  Kikawa plans to boost annual capacity for mining excavators
by 60 percent and three times for dump trucks by March 2014 at
plants in Ibaraki prefecture, northeast of Tokyo. The expansion
is part of a 187 billion yen ($2.4 billion)  growth  plan unveiled
June 23.  Currency Forecast  Hitachi Construction Machinery gained 0.8 percent to 1,298
yen at the close of trading in Tokyo. The stock has fallen 33
percent this year, compared with a 17 percent decline in the
Nikkei 225 index.  Kikawa forecast the Japanese currency will stay high next
year in a range of between 75 yen and 80 yen to the dollar. The
company will need to source more components outside  Japan  to
counter currency strength that has domestic products more
expensive overseas, he said. Purchases from other countries will
probably account for 45 percent of procurement costs by March
2014, up from 35 percent now, he said.  “What measures can we take to survive at these levels?”
the CEO said. “We have no choice but to produce products in the
regions where they are sold.”  Hitachi has also started using cheaper steel supplied by
Chinese and South Korean mills to build excavators at home as it
cuts costs, he said.  The yen, which rose to a postwar record on Oct. 31, traded
at 77.99 yen per dollar as of 3:16 p.m. in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at   msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  