-- Kim Jong Un Plays Statesman for First Time as Delegation Visits From South
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2011-12-27T03:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/kim-jong-un-plays-statesman-for-first-time-as-delegation-visits-from-south.html
Kim Jong Un got his first chance to
play the role of North Korean statesman as a former first lady
from the South and the chairwoman of  Hyundai Group  paid their
condolences over the death of  Kim Jong Il .  Kim, thought to be younger than 30 years, was shown on 
state television in Pyongyang yesterday greeting Lee Hee Ho, 
the 89-year-old widow of former President Kim Dae Jung, and 
Hyundai’s Hyun Jeong Eun at Kumsusan Memorial Palace, where his 
father’s body is lying in state. Lee and Hyun led a private 
group of 18 South Koreans on a two-day visit as the North’s 
media extended its adulation of Kim Jong Un.  The ruling party named Kim head of its central committee, a
week after his father’s death on Dec. 17, adding to the official
Korean Central News Agency’s recent references to him as
“supreme leader of the revolutionary armed forces” and “great
successor” to his late father and grandfather,  Kim Il Sung .  “The visit will work as lubricant, but it won’t be a
catalyst for an immediate change,” said Kim Yong Hyun, a
professor of North Korean studies at  Dongguk University  in Seoul.
“There’s a long way to go for North and  South Korea .”  Meeting with the former first lady may help create an image,
both at home and abroad, of Kim Jong Un as a leader who already
has a South Korea policy, said Baek Seung Joo, a North Korea
specialist at the state-run Korea Institute for Defense Analysis
in Seoul.  ‘Catastrophic Consequences’  No government officials from Seoul will pay condolences,
according to the Unification Ministry, which oversees policy
toward  North Korea . Known for making repeated threats against
its southern neighbor, North Korea warned on Dec. 25 of
“unpredictable catastrophic consequences” after the government
in Seoul restricted condolences.  South Korea, which prohibits its citizens from traveling to
the North except to the jointly run Gaeseong industrial complex,
gave special permission for Lee and Hyun.  Private individuals and groups, also banned by South Korean
law from praising the North Korean regime, may send condolences
via mail or fax.  Concern the political outlook in the North could worsen,
compounding the risk from  Europe ’s debt crisis, contributed to
slump in consumer  confidence  in South Korea, which fell to a
three-month low this month, the central bank in Seoul said in an
e-mailed statement.  Kospi (KOSPI)  Drop  In the stock market, the benchmark Kospi index extended
declines after an apparent incorrect order was placed and amid
unsubstantiated speculation concerning Kim Jong Un’s health and
North Korea’s relationship with  China , said La Sung Chae, an
official from the exchange.  The index fell as much 2.3 percent and was down 0.6 percent
at 1845.80 at 12:20 p.m. local time. The South Korean won fell
0.2 percent.  The government’s in Seoul and Beijing share a common
interest in peace and stability on the Korean peninsula and need
to be in close communication, South Korean Vice Foreign Minister
Park Suk Hwan said earlier today during a meeting with his
Chinese counterpart Zhang Zhijun.  State Guest House  Lee and Hyun stayed at the Baekhwawon State Guest House in
Pyongyang, accommodation used previously by Kim Dae Jung and his
successor, the late Roh Moo Hyun, the Unification Ministry said.  The state-run Korean Central  News Agency  in Pyongyang said
Lee and Hyun expressed “deep condolences and sympathy” to Kim
Jong Un, and that he gave them his thanks. Lee wrote in a
condolence book of her desire for the early reunification of the
divided peninsula while Hyun said the late leader had sought
“reconciliation and cooperation” and would always be
remembered, according to a statement from KCNA.  Neither the North Korean news agency nor the Unification
Ministry indicated what else may have been said.  The group will return home today, a day before Kim Jong
Il’s funeral tomorrow. They are traveling by land will cross the
border near the village of Panmunjom, where a cease-fire that
ended fighting in the  Korean War  was signed in 1953.  A flurry of official statements hailing the young leader
over the past week also indicates that he may be given the
highest formal roles in the country more quickly than was his
father, who waited three years for the titles following the
death of Kim Il Sung, said Paik Hak Soon, director of North
Korean studies at the Seongnam, South Korea-based Sejong
Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  