-- Lotus Sale Seen 30 Years After James Bond Let Go Along With Profits: Cars
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n ,   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2011-12-27T08:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/lotus-sale-seen-30-years-after-james-bond-let-go-along-with-profits-cars.html
James Bond  stopped using Lotus as
his vehicle of choice to fight villains 30 years ago. Investors
say  Malaysia ’s  Proton Holdings Bhd. (PROH)  should follow suit in
abandoning the sports-car maker.  Proton, the Malaysian maker of sedans and taxis that bought
control of Lotus in 1996, hasn’t made any profit from the
British unit for 15 years and probably won’t at least until 2014.
Now that Proton itself may be divested by its state-run parent,
investors such as Gan Eng Peng say Lotus Group International Ltd.
is ripe for a sale.  “It will make sense for them to sell it,” said Gan, who
helps oversee about $3.6 billion as head of equities at HwangDBS
Investment Management Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “Proton and Lotus
are not a good fit. They are in different market segments, both
in terms of geography and product.”  Lotus, which has struggled to compete against  Porsche AG (PAH3) 
and  Ferrari SpA  in  Europe , has hung on to relevance in the  auto
industry  partly because of its decades-long expertise in
designing lightweight frames. Still, the company may need the
backing of a carmaker more global than Proton to survive in an
industry where carmakers such as Saab Automobile are filing for
bankruptcy, according to Gan.  Interest in Lotus  Lotus’s sale has been the subject of speculation before.
 Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp . this month denied an Edge
newspaper report that said  China ’s largest carmaker is
interested in Lotus. Two months ago, Proton denied a report by
the Star newspaper that it was selling its Lotus stake to
Luxembourg-based Genii Capital.  Lotus Chief Executive Officer Dany Taner Bahar, formerly a
Ferrari executive, said he’s confident he can make the company
break even by 2014 as long as he has the financial backing.  “The only thing we can do is show the current owners, or
the new owners, that we are absolutely in line with the business
plan that we have presented,” Bahar, who’s based in Norfolk,
U.K., said in an interview last week. “Without the funding
support and the guarantees given by the Proton group, we would
not survive, end of story.”  Bahar said Lotus, whose cars were featured in the  James
Bond movies  “The Spy Who Loved Me” in 1977 and “For Your Eyes
Only” in 1981, will continue to turn to its engineering
strengths to stay competitive.  Lightweight Frames  Phil Gott, an IHS Automotive analyst specializing in
powertrain research, agrees that Lotus technology is excellent.
Expertise in making lightweight frames, a defining area of
strength since its founding in 1952 by British inventor Colin
Chapman, has allowed Lotus designs to be a popular option for
electric cars, Gott said.  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  has relied on Lotus chassis designs since
2008 for its $109,000 Roadster sports car. Then-Chrysler LLC had
also planned to contract Lotus to produce electric vehicles
before the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based company filed for
bankruptcy in 2009, emerging as Chrysler Group LLC.  The Lotus Elise weighs 2,010 pounds (912 kilograms), making
it the lightest performance car sold in the U.S., according to
 Santa Monica , California-based Edmunds.com. The 2012 Porsche
Cayman is 2,932 pounds while the  Mazda (7261)  MX-5 Miata sports
convertible is 2,480, according to the website.  “One of Lotus’ key attributes, part of the DNA, is to go
the extreme in achieving the most intelligent and clever
technological engineering,” Bahar said.  Lotus DNA  Lotus’s DNA may share few similarities with that of its
Malaysian owner. While Lotus makes  sports cars  that are sold for
as much as 513,000 ringgit ($163,000) in Malaysia, Proton sells
hatchbacks for as low as 34,000 ringgit. Before Proton, Lotus’s
owners included the former  General Motors Corp. (GM) , which later
emerged from bankruptcy as General Motors Co., and Romano
Artioli’s Bugatti International.  Proton’s stock has gained 50 percent in Kuala Lumpur
trading this month as speculation on its sale heated up. State-
owned  Khazanah Nasional Bhd ., which holds a 43 percent stake,
has since confirmed it received offers. Khazanah officials have
declined to comment on Proton’s sale beyond saying it received
proposals of interest. Sime Darby Motors, Naza Group, Hyundai-
Berjaya Sdn.,  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB)  and  UMW Holdings Bhd. (UMWH)  are
candidates, the Edge reported Dec. 3. Sime and UMW have said
they aren’t interested.  Former Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, who
founded Proton in 1983, said Dec. 13 that billionaire Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary’s DRB-Hicom, an auto assembler, is the best
candidate to buy the government stake and that Proton shouldn’t
be sold to a foreign company. DRB-Hicom Managing Director Mohd Khamil Jamil wasn’t available for comment because he’s on leave,
said his secretary.  National Carmaker  For Proton, whose profit tumbled 76 percent in the latest
quarter, unloading the U.K. unit may give it room to invest in
production facilities as Malaysia’s national carmaker faces
mounting domestic competition from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
Perusahaan Otomobil Kedua Sdn Bhd.  Lotus needs about 2.4 billion ringgit in order to help it
return to profit, according to  OSK Holdings Bhd. (OSK)  estimates. The
brand may be worth about 1 billion ringgit, or about triple its
current value, once it’s profitable, according to Ahmad Maghfur Usman, an OSK analyst.  For that to happen, Lotus will have to sell 8,000 vehicles
a year, he said. The carmaker sold 1,985 units for the year
ended March 31, according to its annual report. That compares
with Ferrari, whose chairman said in September will probably
post record sales of 7,000 cars this year.  Those numbers may be difficult to reach under current
ownership.  “Proton is better off without Lotus,” said Alexander Chia,
a Kuala Lumpur-based analyst at RHB Capital. “There are no
product synergies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  