-- Toyota Adds to Prius Lineup With Smallest Hybrid Aimed at Fit
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2011-12-26T04:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/toyota-adds-to-prius-lineup-with-smallest-hybrid-aimed-at-fit.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s largest
automaker, will begin selling its smallest hybrid car in Japan
today to compete with Honda Motor Co. for younger consumers
seeking an entry-level fuel-efficient vehicle.  The Aqua compact hybrid, to be marketed as the Prius C in
the U.S., will cost from 1.69 million yen ($21,700), the Toyota
City, Japan-based carmaker said today in a statement. The
company aims to sell 12,000 Aquas a month in its home market.  Toyota is counting on gasoline-electric models, led by an
expanded Prius lineup, to meet a goal of increasing global
vehicle sales 20 percent next year. Honda’s Fit compact car,
sold in hybrid and conventional gasoline-engine versions,
outsold the larger Prius in the first six months of this year in
 Japan , underscoring consumer demand for smaller fuel-efficient
cars.  “The Aqua shows Toyota is increasing efforts to boost
sales in the domestic market,” said  Mamoru Kato , an auto
analyst at Tokai Tokyo Research Center in Nagoya, Japan.
“Toyota raised the price of the Prius to a more profitable
level, so the Aqua serves to meet demand for smaller, cheaper
hybrids.”  The Aqua measures 3.9 meters (12.8 feet) in length,
compared with the 4.48-meter Prius, and has as much legroom as a
Corolla compact, according to chief engineer Satoshi Ogiso. It
costs 22 percent less than the Prius, which starts from 2.17
million yen, according to Toyota’s website.  Prius Sales  The new model delivers a locally rated 35 kilometers per
liter. That compares with 30 kilometers per liter for the hybrid
version of the Fit, which starts from 1.59 million yen,
according to Honda’s website.  Domestic sales of the Prius plummeted 51 percent in the
first six months of this year to 83,319 vehicles as Japan’s
March 11 earthquake and tsunami disrupted production. Honda’s
Fit topped the market segment with sales of 88,282, a 2 percent
decrease from a year earlier.  U.S. deliveries of the Prius, the world’s best-selling
hybrid car, rose 49 percent last month from a year earlier,
according to Autodata Corp.  “While hybrids are generally projected to sell in
developed markets like the U.S., it’s difficult to say if such a
small car as the Prius C will sell,” said Tokai  Tokyo ’s Kato.  Toyota began selling a wagon version of the Prius in May
and will also introduce a plug-in version, which can run about
23 kilometers on its lithium-ion battery before its gasoline
engine kicks in, next month in Japan and by March in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  