-- Putin Spokesman Rebuffs Gorbachev Call for Premier to Quit Power
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2011-12-26T07:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/putin-spokesman-rebuffs-gorbachev-call-for-premier-to-quit-power.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
spokesman dismissed a call by former Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev  for Putin to pull out of March presidential elections.  “The former leader of a vast nation, who presided over its
collapse, is calling on a person to step down who managed to
save Russia from the same fate,”  Dmitry Peskov  told state
television Rossiya late yesterday.  Gorbachev, 80, on Dec. 24 said Putin, 59, had been in power
for too long after two terms as president and one as prime
minister. “There shouldn’t be a monopoly of power, we don’t
need any czars,” he told Ekho Moskvy radio.  Putin announced in September that he would seek to return
to the Kremlin in March 4 presidential elections, pushing aside
his protégé, President  Dmitry Medvedev . He is confronting the
biggest demonstrations of his 12 years in power over alleged
election fraud in Dec. 4 parliamentary polls.  At least 30,000 people thronged Sakharov Prospect, a wide
avenue in Moscow named after Soviet-era dissident Andrei
Sakharov, on Dec. 24, police said. The event organizers said as
many as 120,000 people attended the rally, with protests also
held in other cities. On Dec. 10, tens of thousands of Russians
rallied across the country, including at least 25,000 in Moscow,
according to police.  Medvedev, 46, replaced Putin in the Kremlin for four years
because of a constitutional ban on three consecutive terms. Two
more six-year terms would give Putin 24 years at the helm,
making him the longest-serving leader since  Josef Stalin .  Gorbachev was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1990 for
helping to bring an end to the  Cold War  as president of the
 Soviet Union . The former Soviet Communist Party general
secretary, who introduced a policy of “glasnost,” or openness,
has criticized Putin for clamping down on media freedoms and
political opposition.  Leonid Brezhnev, who led the Soviet Union from 1964 until
his death in 1982, a period later characterized as an era of
stagnation that paved the way for economic collapse in 1991, was
a “huge plus” for the country, Peskov said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  