-- Rubber Demand in China to Slow in 2012 as Auto Sales Decline, Okachi Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-26T06:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/rubber-demand-in-china-to-slow-in-2012-as-auto-sales-decline-okachi-says.html
Natural rubber  demand in  China , the
world’s largest consumer, may slow in 2012 and prices may extend
the biggest annual decline in three years as economic growth and
auto sales ease, an executive at Okachi & Co. said.  “There’s growing concern that the whole economic situation
will face downward pressure in the first quarter next year
because of weak economies in both emerging and developed
countries,” said Lizhi Tang, president of Okachi’s greater
China region. Okachi is the largest broker for rubber contracts
on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, he said.  Slower demand may extend a 33 percent decline in prices
this year, the biggest drop since 2008, amid higher supply from
producing countries including  Thailand , and as the sovereign
debt crisis in Europe deepens and growth in the U.S. slows.
China accounted for about 34 percent of global demand last year,
according to the International Rubber Study Group.  “Growth in China’s demand for natural rubber next year is
poised to slow down amid sluggish new auto sales,” Li Shiqiang,
general manager at  Sri Trang (Shanghai) Ltd. (STA) , a unit of
Thailand’s largest publicly traded rubber exporter, said in a
phone interview on Dec. 22.  China’s economy  will grow 8.5 percent next year, the least
in 11 years, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. Vehicle sales may rise by the least
in 13 years in 2011, plunging from last year’s record 32
percent, according to the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers, as inflation, higher  interest rates  and the end
of a two-year stimulus plan deter purchases.  The June-delivery contract dropped to as low as 275.1 yen a
kilogram ($3,527 a metric ton) before trading at 276.6 yen on
the Tokyo Commodity Exchange. Earlier it advanced to 281.5 yen,
the highest level for a most-active contract since Dec. 12, as
U.S. economic data raised optimism the world’s biggest economy
will keep expanding.  Tire Makers  “Chinese tire makers are confronting problems such as
tight  cash flow , declining sales, overcapacity, pressure to
lower tire prices and consolidation,” Li at Sri Trang said.
“Their situation will only improve if the whole economy turns
up and the auto market recovers.”  Shares in  Giti Tire Corp. (600182) , China’s largest tiremaker, have
dropped 30 percent this year in  Shanghai  and  Double Coin
Holdings (600623)  has plunged 42 percent as auto sales have slowed. The
benchmark Shanghai bourse has dropped 22 percent.  “Next year it’s likely that supply will outstrip demand
because of a slowdown in the global economy and the subsequent
weak demand from the auto and tire sectors,” He Yihua, a
trading manager at Okachi, said in an e-mail.  The increasing use of substitute synthetic rubber will also
lead to reduced use of the natural product, He said. Synthetic
rubber may have reduced natural rubber consumption by about
545,000 tons in 2011, he said.  ‘Weak Fundamentals’  “The weak fundamentals in the real estate market and other
infrastructure sectors will also reduce the demand for tires in
the logistics chain,” Sri Trang’s Li said. “So far there’s
nothing to be optimistic about in 2012.”  China’s home prices posted their worst performance this
year with more than half of the 70 biggest cities monitored in
November recording declines after the government reiterated
plans to maintain property curbs.  Inventories at bonded areas in Qingdao, the country’s
biggest spot rubber trading hub, climbed to record 270,000 tons
to 280,000 tons last month, signalling sluggish demand, Okachi’s
Tang said.  Natural rubber prices may fall further in the first quarter
as the producing countries raise production, Tang said. Any
“meaningful” rebound may appear in the second or the third
quarter when producing countries may take measures to stem a
decline in prices and a less restrictive monetary policy in
China may stimulate the economy, Tang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  