-- Sony Sells LCD Venture Stake to Samsung After Losses
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2011-12-27T06:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/samsung-electronics-buys-sony-out-of-stake-in-lcd-venture-for-935-million.html
(Corrects third paragraph of the story published Dec. 26 to
say takeovers were announced with partners.)  Sony Corp. (6758)  sold its stake in the
venture with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  to make liquid-crystal
displays to the South Korean company after predicting an eighth
consecutive year of losses from TVs amid sluggish demand.  Samsung will pay 1.08 trillion won ($935 million) in cash
for Sony’s stake in S-LCD Corp., a venture formed in 2004, the
Suwon, South Korea-based company said in a statement today.
Sony, which invested 1.65 trillion won in the venture, will take
a charge of about 66 billion yen ($846 million) in the quarter
ending Dec. 31 after the deal, Japan’s biggest consumer-
electronics exporter said in its statement.  The stake sale enables Sony Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer , 69, to shed the responsibility of panel manufacturing
amid losses in the TV business, where Samsung is the world’s
biggest. To turn around Sony, which has forecast a fourth
consecutive annual loss this year, Stringer has teamed up with
partners to announce acquisitions worth a combined $8.4 billion
in 2011. The purchases are designed to bolster the profitable
phones and music divisions and introduced tablet computers to
challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  “It’s a step forward for Sony,” said  Shiro Mikoshiba , an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Tokyo. “Canceling out the
venture enables Sony to become more flexible in procuring
panels. Still, Sony continues to face falling prices and heavy
fixed costs.”  Sony shares gained 1.6 percent to 1,394 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo today, while Samsung fell 0.2 percent to 1.07
million won. The deal was announced after the stock market
closed for trading. The Nikkei reported the news earlier today.  ‘Substantial Savings’  The maker of Walkman music players and PlayStation consoles
has declined 52 percent this year, valuing the company at $18
billion, down from more than $100 billion in September 2000.
Samsung has risen 12 percent in  Seoul  this year and Apple has
jumped 25 percent.  Samsung had 50 percent of the venture plus one share, while
Sony held the remainder, according to the statement. The two
companies have also entered into an agreement for supply and
purchase of LCD panels, Samsung said in the statement.  The transaction and the subsequent agreement will enable
Sony to secure a flexible and steady supply of LCD panels from
Samsung, based on market prices, and without the responsibility
and costs of operating a manufacturing facility,  Japan ’s biggest
consumer-electronics exporter said in its statement.  “Despite this one-time loss, Sony estimates that the
transaction will result in substantial savings,” starting
January, Sony said in the statement.  Downgrading Sony  Earlier this month,  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Sony’s long-
term ratings to “BBB-,” one level above junk, from “BBB,”
citing difficulties in reviving the money-losing TV business and
deals that won’t improve profit.  Sony, the world’s No. 3 TV maker, is streamlining its main
TV operation, which is estimated to lose 175 billion yen in the
year to March. Last month, Sony predicted it will post a loss in
the year to March 31 after the company slashed its TV sales
target and the yen reached a postwar high.  The Japanese company lagged behind Samsung and Seoul-based
 LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  in the global TV market last year, with 12
percent of sales, according to DisplaySearch. In the U.S.,
Samsung and Vizio, founded in 2002, had the biggest share for
flat-panel televisions, based on research from IHS iSuppli.  Last March, Sony agreed to sell 90 percent of a TV factory
in Nitra, Slovakia, to Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., after
disposing of 90 percent of its largest North American TV-making
site to Taipei-based Hon Hai. Sony also agreed to sell a TV
facility in  Barcelona  in September.  ‘Unflagging Resolve’  Earlier this year, Sony agreed to divest its money-losing
smaller-sized LCD business to a government-backed fund, which
also bought a similar unit from  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and Hitachi Ltd.
expenses at its marketing units.  “I have unflagging resolve” to turn the TV business
around, Executive Deputy President  Kazuo Hirai  said Nov. 2.
Sony’s management “feels a sense of crisis” about the unit’s
losses, he said.  TV makers also face what Credit Suisse called a
“generational culture shift surrounding video consumption.”
Teens live in an Internet-based video culture that doesn’t
depend on cable and satellite broadcasts, and they are satisfied
with “small-screen experiences” and lower picture quality, the
analysts led by New York-based Stefan Anninger said in the Nov.
28 report.  For Samsung, finding another buyer for Sony’s stake would
have been “difficult,” said Jeff Kang, an analyst at Daishin
Securities Co.  Separately, Samsung today said it will merge with Samsung
LED on April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  