-- Sapporo in Talks With Morgan Stanley to Buy Property Stake
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2011-12-26T08:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/sapporo-in-talks-with-morgan-stanley-to-buy-yebisu-garden-stake.html
Sapporo Holdings Ltd. (2501) , Japan’s
fourth-largest brewer, said it’s in talks to repurchase a 15
percent stake in its  Yebisu Garden Place  property in  Tokyo  from
 Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Morgan Stanley Real Estate’s stake in the 17-year-old
building is valued at about 40.5 billion yen ($519 million),
Sapporo said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange today.
The real estate unit of the U.S.-based bank bought the shares
for 50 billion yen in 2007, according to the company’s
statements at the time of the purchase. Natsuo Nishio, a Tokyo-
based Morgan Stanley spokesman, declined to comment.  Sapporo cited the property’s higher than average occupancy
rate, compared with the central Tokyo area, as the reason for
its interest. Morgan Stanley is negotiating the sale of its
stake in the 40-story tower and surrounding retail and office
complex after recording real-estate losses of about $4.4 billion
in 2008 and 2009.  “Morgan Stanley is looking to reduce its exposures to real
estate,” said  Takashi Ishizawa , a Tokyo-based property analyst
at Mizuho Securities Co. “The deal would be beneficial for
both, as Sapporo has always been interested in real estate.”  Sapporo, whose property business accounted for about 52
percent of operating profit in the nine months ended Sept. 30,
expects to reach an agreement by the end of January and complete
the transaction by the end of February, it said. The brewer now
owns 85 percent of the property.  Yebisu Garden Place consists 11 buildings and has a current
office occupancy rate of 96 percent, compared with the 92
percent average for central Tokyo, according to Sapporo. Morgan
Stanley is a tenant at the complex.  Morgan Stanley’s real-estate investing business had $43
billion of assets under management as of June 30, with 37
percent in  Asia , 37 percent in the Americas and 26 percent in
 Europe , according to the company’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  