-- Saudi Arabia Forecasts $3.2B Surplus in 2012
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2011-12-26T16:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/saudi-arabia-forecasts-3-2b-surplus-in-2012.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s top oil
exporter, forecast a budget surplus of 12 billion riyals ($3.2
billion) next year as the kingdom boosts planned spending while
investing to create jobs.  The government plans to spend 690 billion riyals, 19
percent above its target for this year and below actual spending
of 804 billion riyals, the Riyadh-based  Finance Ministry  said on
its website today. Revenue next year is projected at 702 billion
riyals, above last year’s target of 540 billion riyal and less
than this year’s actual revenue of 1.11 trillion riyals.  King Abdullah  announced a $130 billion spending plan in the
first quarter to build homes and combat unemployment of 10
percent. The program comes amid concerns  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis will hurt global growth and amid a wave of popular
uprisings in the  Middle East , triggered in part by unemployment.  “Saudi Arabia tried to give more benefits to its citizens
at a time when discontent was spreading through the region,”
Ted Karasik, director of research at the Dubai-based Institute
for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis said in a phone
interview from Dubai. “This is part of an adjustment to Saudi’s
budgetary needs because of subsidies that were given when the
Arab Spring took off.”  The country had a surplus of 306 billion riyals this year,
compared with the 40 billion-riyal deficit foreseen in the
budget announced a year ago. The kingdom’s public-sector debt
will fall 18.8 percent to 135.5 billion riyals this year, the
ministry said. The king ordered the transfer of 250 billion
riyals from that surplus to the account of the  Saudi Arabian
Monetary Fund  to finance the construction of 500,000 housing
units approved in March, the  Finance Ministry  said.  Conservative Estimates  Saudi Arabia uses conservative estimates of oil prices when
planning its budget. Combined with additional spending that can
be announced as the year goes on, that means outcomes often
depart significantly from approved budgets, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a review of the economy in September.  King Abdullah announced a government spending package for
social and housing projects after youth-driven uprisings toppled
leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya this year.  “An increase in oil prices and a surge in production,
stemming from the outage to Libyan crude, was enough to more
than offset an extraordinary spike in government spending,”
James Reeve, senior economist at  Samba Financial Group  in
 London , said in response to e-mailed questions.  Saudi Arabia increased oil supply to help meet rising
demand after exports from  Libya  collapsed during the uprising
against  Muammar Qaddafi .  ‘High Expenditure’  The government has “tended to err on the side of high
expenditure as a way to support economic activity in the face of
an uncertain global situation,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , the chief
economist at National Commercial Bank, said in response to e-
mailed questions. “The problems in the euro zone above all are
endemic and would justify continued caution.”  Economic growth is expected to be 6.8 percent this year,
the Finance Ministry said.  Growth in the kingdom will drop to about 3.8 percent in
2012 from 6 percent this year on weaker demand for energy from
Europe and the U.S. and reduction in  government spending , Kai
Stukenbrock, director of sovereign and international public
finance ratings at S&P, told reporters in Dubai on Nov. 14.  Education Spending  The budget includes 265 billion riyals for development
projects and 168.6 billion riyals for education and training,
the ministry said.  The government this year needed a break-even oil price for
the budget of around $85 to $90 a barrel, NCB’s Kotilaine said.
“This figure has tended to edge higher every year,” he said.  Crude traded for $99.68 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  on Dec. 23. The ministry didn’t say what price it
forecast for oil when preparing next year’s budget.  Saudi Arabia has prepared a plan to “rebuild and
modernize” its armed forces as the kingdom confronts regional
risks, the military chief of staff, General Hussein al-Qubail,
said Nov. 13.  Saudi Arabia has 233,500 active military personnel,
including 75,000 in the army and 13,500 in the navy, according
to data from the International Institute of Strategic Studies.
Troops from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf nations entered  Bahrain 
in March to help crush protests by the Shiite-led majority.  “Defense and security will account for the largest share
of planned spending, but that’s also not published,” Gamble
said.  The kingdom’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  advanced to the
highest level in almost five months ahead of the budget report.
The 150-company gauge gained 0.5 percent to 6,414.47, trimming
its yearly loss to 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 