-- SEC Backs Lehman Brokerage in $3 Billion Barclays Dispute After Shortfall
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2011-12-26T19:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/sec-backs-lehman-brokerage-in-3-billion-barclays-dispute-after-shortfall.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sided with the bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Inc. (LEHMQ) 
brokerage in a $3 billion dispute with  Barclays Plc (BARC)  over assets,
saying the defunct brokerage didn’t have enough money to pay
customers.  The trustee liquidating the Lehman brokerage said he
identified about a $5 billion shortfall in customer reserve
accounts. As long as there is a shortfall, Barclays has only a
conditional claim on as much as $1.3 billion reserved for
customers, the SEC said in a Dec. 23 filing in U.S. District
Court in Manhattan. Lehman and Barclays are disputing $3 billion
in assets in court.  “The commission wishes to ensure that assets held in the
special reserve bank account for the exclusive benefit of
customers, as well as other assets required to be held for the
benefit of customers, are properly administered in the event a
broker-dealer is liquidated,” the SEC said.  In October, Barclays and brokerage trustee, James Giddens,
both appealed U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck’s ruling that
gave Barclays “only a conditional right” to $769 million in
the reserve account, unless Giddens had enough to pay customers.
In addition to the $769 million, reserves include $507 million
in margin for customer transactions at the Options Clearing
Corp., the SEC said.  Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment
Dec. 23 on the  SEC filing .  Miscoding Accounts  Lehman’s past “compliance failures” -- including a
failure to set aside enough securities for customers, miscoding
of accounts and underreported credits -- caused the deficiency,
Giddens has said in court papers.  Giddens is liquidating the remnants of the Lehman brokerage
to pay  hedge funds  and institutional investors after Barclays
took over most of the brokerage clients, with some $43 billion
in assets, and some of the trading businesses.  Giddens said earlier this month he would start distributing
some of the $23.7 billion in assets he’d gathered, to customers
with approved claims of about $18.3 billion. He proposes to pay
them with the brokerage estate’s property if there’s a shortfall
of customer assets, he said. Giddens, who also is trustee of the
MF Global Inc. brokerage, has said he may consign estate
property to its customers too.  Both Parties  SEC staff members told both parties in 2008, when Barclays
bought Lehman’s North American business, that they might violate
a customer-protection rule if Barclays took the assets in
customer reserve accounts, according to its filing.  In his ruling Peck also told Barclays to return $2 billion
in margin assets to the bankrupt brokerage. He told Giddens to
give Barclays at least $1.1 billion.  The duel between Barclays and Giddens follows a bankruptcy
court trial held in 2010 before Peck in  Manhattan . Both sides
filed Dec. 23 court papers in support of their appeals.  Appealing Peck’s order to return $2 billion in margin,
Barclays said in October that his ruling was “commercially
absurd” because the bank would never have taken on Lehman’s
trading assets without the margin backing them. As for the $769
million in reserve assets, Barclays said that the deal documents
promised the U.K. bank similar assets if those weren’t available.  Giddens said in his appeal that Peck erred in awarding
Barclays the $1.1 billion in so-called clearance box assets held
to clear trades. Peck should have focused on which party they
belonged to, Giddens said.  The court case is Giddens v. Barclays Capital Inc., 11-cv-
06052, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 