-- South Korean Consumer Confidence Falls After Death of Kim Jong Il: Economy
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2011-12-27T02:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/south-korean-consumer-confidence-falls-to-a-three-month-low-on-kim-europe.html
South Korean  consumer confidence 
fell to a three-month low in December, as concern the political
outlook in the North will worsen in the wake of Kim Jong Il’s
death compounds the risk from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The  sentiment index  fell to 99, from 103 in November, the
Bank of  Korea  said in an e-mailed statement today. A reading
below 100 indicates pessimists outnumber optimists. The survey
was conducted between Dec. 14 and Dec. 21. North Korea announced
the death of its leader on Dec. 19, with his son Kim Jong Un,
thought to be under 30, to succeed as ruler.  Policy makers in the South pledged to take steps as needed
to stabilize markets in the aftermath of the North’s
announcement, and an initial slump in equities was recouped
within days. While the government said Dec. 21 that  South Korea 
had so far seen little impact to its economy, Asia’s fourth
largest, any sign of prolonged impact to  consumer spending  may
spur monetary and fiscal stimulus, economist Kong Dong Rak said.  “We don’t know what will happen in North Korea and this
makes people so wary,” said Kong, a fixed-income analyst at
Taurus Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Both the central
bank and government may have to come up with stimulus if
consumers and companies reduce spending in fear of worse things
in North Korea or Europe.”  The  Bank of Korea  kept the  benchmark  seven-day repurchase
rate unchanged at 3.25 percent for a sixth straight meeting this
month, refraining from raising borrowing costs as the deepening
European crisis and global slowdown imperil exports by companies
including Hyundai Motor Co. and Samsung Electronics Co. The
central bank expects economic growth in the country to slow to
3.7 percent and inflation to ease next year.  Stocks Fall  South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  of stocks, which
dropped 3.4 percent on Dec. 19, the day reports emerged of Kim’s
death, fell 0.6 percent as of 11:14 a.m. in Seoul today. The won
declined 0.1 percent to 1,156.4 a dollar, after falling 1.4
percent on Dec. 19.  Most Asian stocks fell amid slow holiday trading, with the
regional benchmark winding down its worst year since 2008, as
Bank of  Japan  minutes from a November meeting highlighted
downside risks to the economy and South Korean confidence slid.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.2 percent as of 11:15 a.m.
in  Tokyo . The measure is headed for a 17 percent decline this
year, its biggest annual loss since 2008.  A “few”  Bank of Japan  board members said financial-market
turmoil from the European debt crisis and the yen’s appreciation
were increasing risks for growth, according to a record of last
month’s board meeting.  ‘Downside Risks’  Those members “pointed to the possibility that downside
risks to the economy had increased somewhat since the previous
meeting” held in October, according to minutes of the Nov. 15-
16 gathering published today in Tokyo. The BOJ refrained from
altering policy at the time, and also kept its asset purchases
and benchmark  interest rate  unchanged this month.  Today’s report didn’t specify how many people shared that
view and members in the record aren’t identified by name. The
central bank last week lowered its economic assessment for a
second month at its December board meeting.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  China ’s industrial-profit growth slowed
to 24.4 percent in the 11 months through November, a report
showed today, adding to evidence the government may need to ease
policy to protect the nation’s economic expansion.  In the day ahead,  Finland  is scheduled to release consumer
and business confidence reports for December, while the
Netherlands will release producer confidence data. In the U.S.,
the Conference Board’s  consumer confidence index  may increase to
58.6 in December, according to the median of 61 estimates ahead
of a release today.  Korean Production  The South Korean consumer confidence index released today
was based on survey responses from 2,042 households in 56 cities.  South Korea’s industrial-production growth probably slowed
a second month to 5.9 percent in November, according to the
median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of a Dec.
29 report. Inflation may slow to 4 percent this month, a
separate survey showed before a Dec. 30 report.  The North’s ruling party has named Kim Jong Un as head of
its central committee, just a week after his father’s death on
Dec. 17, adding to the official Korean Central News Agency’s
recent references to him as “supreme leader of the revolutionary
armed forces” and “great successor” to his late father and
grandfather,  Kim Il Sung .  Geopolitical risks around the Korean peninsula may rise and
the death of  Kim Jong Il  may hurt South Korea’s growth, Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
said on Dec. 19.  Economic Strength  Still, the nation has so far seen little impact to its
economy since the death of the North Korean leader, Deputy
Finance Minister Kang Ho In told reporters Dec. 21. The nation’s
exports rose more than a tenth through Dec. 19 compared with the
same period last year, Kang said.  Kim Jong Il’s death hasn’t constrained South Korea’s credit
ratings, Moody’s Investors Service said in a Dec. 22 report. The
outlook for Korea’s A1 local and foreign government bond ratings
remains stable, given the country’s “very high degree of
economic strength, as well as high degree of institutional and
government financial strengths,” the rating company said, adding
that the “robust state” of the South Korea-U.S. alliance will
provide a strong deterrence to war.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan told reporters yesterday that
next year will be a critical time for the economy as it grapples
with the European debt crisis, general and presidential
elections, and political transition in  North Korea . The
government and the central bank have yet to change their
economic forecasts even as they said geopolitical risks are
adding to uncertainties after the death of the North Korean
leader.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  