-- Sudan Police Fire Tear Gas, Arrest 73 Students
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2011-12-26T09:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/sudan-police-fire-tear-gas-arrest-73-students.html
     Dec. 26 (Bloomberg) --Sudan’s Justice and Equality
Movement, the main rebel group fighting in  Darfur , confirmed
that its leader, Khalil Ibrahim, was killed.  Ibrahim died in an airstrike “which implies the
involvement of some regional and international elements,” JEM
spokesman Gibreel Adam Bila said in a statement published
yesterday on the group’s website. Sudanese army spokesman Al-
Sawarmi Khaled said earlier Ibrahim was killed in a raid on the
town of Wald Banda after armed forces raided the area and
attacked a group of rebels, killing several, including Ibrahim.  JEM and three other insurgent groups signed a cooperation
agreement last month vowing to overthrow President Umar al- Bashir’s ruling  National Congress Party . JEM boycotted a peace
agreement between the Sudanese government and a Darfur rebel
faction, the Liberation and Justice Movement, signed on July 14
in Doha, Qatar.  “‘His death doesn’t mean the end of the JEM, their cause
will continue, but it may mean the radical branch of the group
is weakened,”  Fouad Hikmat , Sudan special adviser to the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group , said by phone from
the capital of Khartoum. “It could be an opportunity for more
dialogue over finding a negotiated settlement.”  Insurgents took up arms in Darfur in 2003, accusing the
government of neglecting the region and favoring largely nomadic
Arabs over African ethnic groups. The conflict has led to the
deaths of as many as 300,000 people, mainly due to illness and
starvation, and forced about 2.7 million to flee their homes,
according to United Nations estimates. The Sudanese government
has put the death toll at about 10,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at  selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at  asguazzin@bloomberg.net  