-- U.S. Promises to Help Nigeria Find Bombers Who Killed Dozens on Christmas
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a   a n d   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2011-12-26T16:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/u-s-promises-to-help-nigeria-find-bombers-who-killed-dozens-on-christmas.html
The death toll from a Christmas Day
bomb attack on a church near the Nigerian capital Abuja rose to
26, the government said.  The number injured in the early morning attack couldn’t be
ascertained because many were being taken “in and out of
hospitals,” Yushau Shaibu, a spokesman for the National
Emergency Management Agency, said by phone today.  The U.S. promised to help Nigeria find those responsible
for at least three bombings yesterday.  “We have been in contact with Nigerian officials about
what appear to be terrorist acts and pledge to assist them in
bringing those responsible to justice,” according to a
statement by White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney .  Authorities in  Africa ’s top oil producer blame the Boko
Haram Muslim sect for a surge of violence in the mainly Muslim
north and Abuja in which hundreds of people have died this year.
Boko Haram claimed responsibility for the attacks, two of which
targeted churches, according to newspaper reports. A year ago,
the group said it was behind holiday bombings that killed more
than 90 people.  The first explosion yesterday occurred as services were
ending at St. Theresa’s Church near the capital. Another blast,
at a church in the central city of Jos, capital of Plateau
state, killed a policeman, said Pam Ayuba, a spokesman for the
state government.  A suicide-bomber rammed a car into the entrance of the
State Security Service building in the northeastern city of
Damaturu, killing four people and the bomber, according to
Victor Ebhaleme, a spokesman for the military  task force  in
charge of security in the region.  Attacks by the group would have been worse during the
holiday period had it not been for preemptive action by the
security agencies, President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s security
adviser said.  ‘Improvised Explosives’  “Out of frustration arising from pro-active measures taken
by security agencies against their chosen targets, they decided
to throw improvised explosive devices from a moving vehicle,”
Owoye Azazi, a retired army general, said in a e-mailed
statement today.  Security officials last week recovered five improvised
explosive devices from five churches in Mubi in the northeastern
state of Adamawa, he said.  Nigerian security agencies also last week destroyed armory
belonging to the group in the northern states of Kaduna, Kano
and Yobe, he said.  Boko Haram  Boko Haram, which draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s
Taliban movement, claimed responsibility for the Abuja church
attack, the Abuja-based Trust newspaper reported, citing a
spokesman for the group, Abu Qaqa. The claim couldn’t be
independently verified.  The Vatican denounced the attacks, saying they were a sign
of “cruelty and absurd blind hatred that shows no respect for
human life.”  At least 72 people have been killed in fighting since Dec.
22 between Nigerian security forces and the militant group in
the northeastern city of Damaturu, officials said.  Boko Haram, which translates to “Western education is a
sin,” claimed responsibility for a suicide car-bomb attack on
the United Nations building in the capital on Aug. 26 that
killed 24 people. The group also claimed several Christmas Eve
blasts last year in Jos that left 80 people dead and another
blast on New Year’s Eve at an Abuja military barracks that
killed at least 12 people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net ;
Gbenga Akingbule in Johannesburg at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  