-- U.S. Is Weighing Yemen President’s Request to Visit for Medical Treatment
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2011-12-26T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/u-s-is-considering-yemen-president-request-to-visit-for-medical-treatment.html
The U.S. is considering a request
from outgoing Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh to undergo
medical treatment in America for injuries sustained in an attack
on his palace in June.  Saleh’s office contacted the U.S. embassy in the capital
Sana’a recently and indicated the leader would like to depart
Yemen soon, according to a statement by a U.S. administration
official distributed to reporters by e-mail. The only reason the
U.S. would grant the request for travel to the country would be
for legitimate medical treatment, the official said on the
condition of anonymity.  Tens of thousands of Yemenis have rallied in the capital of
Sana’a in recent days to demand that Saleh face prosecution for
deaths since uprisings began in January. Saleh said Dec. 24 that
he plans to depart as the country prepares for Feb. 21 balloting
that will replace him.  Saleh, who agreed last month to step down amid street
protests, has said that he’ll return to Yemen at an unspecified
date to represent the opposition.  President  Barack Obama ’s counterterrorism adviser,  John Brennan , called Yemeni Vice President Abdurabu Mansur Hadi to
discuss recent violence in the capital, according to an e-mailed
statement by Deputy White House Press Secretary  Josh Earnest .
Brennan emphasized the need for Yemeni security forces to “show
maximum restraint when dealing with demonstrations” and called
on all sides to avoid further violence, Earnest said.  Yemeni Investigation  Hadi told Brennan he has started an investigation into
deaths and injuries that occurred and would do what he can to
prevent further bloodshed, according to the statement.  At least nine demonstrators were killed when security
forces opened fire on protesters Dec. 24, according to Mohammed
al-Qubati, a coordinator at a makeshift field clinic.  Demonstrators are calling for the prosecution of Saleh and
his aides in the deaths of at least 1,100 people since January.
The protesters object to the immunity given to Saleh as part of
the agreement.  A June 3 attack on a mosque in Saleh’s compound killed at
least 16 people. Saleh was among more than 100 who were injured.  United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon told reporters
last month that Saleh mentioned in a telephone conversation that
he would fly to  New York  for medical treatment after signing an
agreement to transfer power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Harrington at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net  