-- Women Beating Men to Japanese Service Jobs
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2011-12-27T06:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/women-beating-men-to-japanese-service-jobs-as-mancession-spurs-deflation.html
Three times a week, Seiya Ogawa
bikes to an  unemployment  center in Kadoma, home to Panasonic
Corp., looking for work to help pay for his son’s final year at
college.  “At this point, I’m willing to take any job,” said the
49-year-old, who assembled electronic circuit boards in what was
once a bustling manufacturing suburb of  Osaka ,  Japan ’s third-
largest city. This month, it’s officially one year since he
first signed on at the center, and “it’s like my humanity’s
been stripped from me,” he said.  Ogawa and his son rely on the incomes of his wife and
daughter, a social  role reversal  that is spreading in Japan as
factories and building companies fire workers and services that
 hire  mostly women add employees. The new jobs pay lower average
wages, making it harder for Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to
spur consumer spending and pull the world’s third-largest
economy out of a decade of  deflation . The increasing burden as
breadwinners also gives women less incentive to marry and have
children early in a country that already has the fastest-aging
population in the developed world.  “With Japanese companies increasingly moving abroad and a
shrinking population making growth in construction work
unlikely, these sectors just can’t absorb male workers the way
they used to,” said  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at Dai-
Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo. “Nominal wages are
falling and falling as a result. This mancession is far from
over.”  National Pride  Japan’s economy is shifting from monozukuri, or making
things -- which the nation prides itself on -- to services,
especially those catering to the 29 million seniors over age 64.
Manufacturing and building industries, where seven out of 10
staff are male, will lose 4 million positions this decade,
according to Tokyo-based Works Institute, funded by employment-
services provider Recruit Co. Health care, 74 percent female,
added people at the fastest pace across all industries in the
past three years, growing 16 percent, Labor Ministry data show.  The shift is accelerating, thanks to a near record-high
currency that’s wiping out profits at exporters including
 Panasonic  and  Sony Corp. (6758) , giving the government no time to ease
the transition. Panasonic forecast its biggest annual loss in a
decade this fiscal year, while Sony estimated it will lose 90
billion yen ($1.2 billion).  Panasonic and Sony shares have slumped 45 percent and 53
percent this year, helping pull the benchmark Topix index 21
percent lower. At the same time,  Message Co. , the nation’s
second-biggest operator of nursing homes by number of rooms, has
risen 2.3 percent, and  Nichii Gakkan Co. (9792) , operator of the
largest number of homes, is up 25 percent.  ‘Future of Japan’  Services such as nursing and health care are “the future
of Japan,” said  Curtis Freeze , founder of Honolulu-based
Prospect Asset Management Inc., who is considering adding
Message to the $300 million that Prospect manages because its
employment policies may reduce staff-turnover costs.
Manufacturers “are in the middle of restructuring, and they’re
going to struggle. It’s the smaller services companies that will
do most of the hiring.”  Health care, with 19 percent of working women, isn’t the
only field to add jobs in the past three years: Education --
another profession where women outnumber men -- as well as
research, restaurants and real estate also have grown, even as
Japan lost a net 12.1 million  positions .  Forty-two percent of people employed in 2010 were women,
the highest share since the Labor Ministry made comparable data
available in 1973, when the figure was 38.5 percent.  ‘Really Tough’  “It’s really tough right now,” said Reiko Sato, 31, at
the government employment office near her home in  Tokyo . “It’s
the end of the year, so there are lots of short-term positions
at department stores or restaurants that everyone’s competing to
get. It’s easier for the girls, because that’s who the stores
want. I just feel bad for the men who have to come here. They
probably won’t have something in time for the New Year.”  Manufacturing, where men outnumber women by more than 2-to-
1, is still Japan’s largest employer, accounting for about 16
percent of its 62.5 million workers. In construction, the ratio
of men to women is 6-to-1. Since October 2008, the former shrank
payrolls by 9 percent and the latter by 11 percent. Meanwhile,
the health-care workforce will grow 32 percent from 2010 to
2020, according to Works Institute.  Pay Gap  As a result, one of the developed world’s biggest gender-
pay gaps -- second only to  South Korea  and roughly double the
average in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development -- is narrowing. Women between 30 and 34 earned an
average 2.99 million yen last year, 69 percent of the 4.32
million yen for men, according to National Tax Agency data.
That’s up from 55 percent in 1978.  The increase may help shift  consumer spending  toward
services women prefer, such as traveling and dining out, and
away from durable goods including cars and electronics, said
 Kyohei Morita , chief Japan economist at  Barclays Capital  in
Tokyo.  HIS Co. (9603) , Japan’s largest listed travel agency, has risen
3.7 percent this year, to 2,128 yen.  “It’s because I work that I can go on these trips and buy
my favorite makeup,” said Ayumi Ohtaki, a 27-year-old call-
center operator in Tokyo who  earns  240,000 yen a month. While
she’s in no hurry to marry, she said she would want to keep her
job after her wedding to ensure she could continue to buy the
things she wants.  “If the money’s just from my husband, I wouldn’t be able
to do anything fun,” she said.  Birth Rate  With women like Ohtaki marrying later and delaying starting
a family, and more men struggling to find work, Japan’s falling
birth rate is likely to get worse, said Mary Brinton, a
sociology professor at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , who studied the lives of young Japanese men shut
out of well-paid, full-time work in the 1990s.  The number of babies born in 2010 was 1.07 million, down
from 1.19 million in 2000, according to the Health, Labor and
Welfare Ministry.  “This so-called mancession is going to cause continuing
problems for the marriage rate and birth rate,” she said.
“Many young Japanese men say they want to have a stable job
before they consider marrying.”  Even so, the shift toward more female employees isn’t
likely to boost overall  consumer spending  because the factory
jobs being lost paid more than the newly created service
positions. Social services and nursing paid an average 229,732
yen a month last year, 63 percent of the 362,340 yen for factory
workers and 62 percent of the 373,288 yen earned in
construction, according to the labor ministry.  “The reality is that women get paid less,” Morita said.  Global Trend  The trend of women replacing men in Japan’s workforce
mirrors a similar shift in other developed nations as companies
cut back payrolls. Last year, the average male  unemployment rate 
among the OECD countries was 8.5 percent, compared with 8.1
percent for women, according to the organization’s website. In
2000, the situation was reversed, with 5.8 percent of men
jobless and 6.8 percent of female workers.  Japan’s unemployment rate in 2010 was 5.4 percent for men
and 4.6 percent for women, a record gap. Joblessness may rise to
7.1 percent for men and 5.9 percent for women by 2020, Works
Institute estimates.  That’s a bleak outlook for Ogawa, who lives alongside
Kadoma’s rusting, shuttered factories, which once drew laborers
from across Japan as they boomed with the Panasonic headquarters
they surround. He says the  stagnation  has changed the attitude
of young people in their 20s like his son and daughter, who
hoard the money they earn rather than spending it.  “It’s hard to tell them to aim high when I’m struggling to
find a job,” Ogawa said. “I don’t dare talk about my good
times when I was their age; they just wouldn’t understand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  