-- Yen Intervention Failing Means World’s Best Currency Poised to Strengthen
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2011-12-27T16:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-26/yen-intervention-failing-means-world-s-best-currency-poised-to-strengthen.html
There’s been no better currency in
2011 than the yen and strategists forecast more gains, even as
 Japan  promises to intervene again in foreign-exchange markets
and expands the world’s biggest debt burden.  The yen’s advance against every major currency, including a
4.1 percent climb against the dollar, illustrates the anxiety in
global markets as  Europe ’s debt crisis stretched into a second
year on the heels of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the U.S. housing market crash. Though bond yields in
Japan are the second-lowest in the world and government
borrowings are double the size of the economy, foreign ownership
of its debt is the highest since 2008.  Japanese officials  sold  at least 14.3 trillion yen ($183
billion) this year to stem gains that cut profits for exporters
from Toyota Motor Corp. to Nintendo Co., and Finance Minister
 Jun Azumi  has pledged more action. Intervention in 2012 may fail
again as financial turmoil attracts investors to the world’s
third-most traded currency for its low volatility.  “When avoiding losses trumps profits during a period of
risk aversion, low-volatility assets are very appealing,”
Masashi Murata, a currency strategist in Tokyo at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co., said in an interview on Dec. 19. “When the U.S.
and Europe moved in a bad direction and people wanted to avoid
risk, the yen stood as the only currency that had enough
liquidity to absorb demand.”  Risk-Adjusted Returns  Besides its gains against the dollar, the world’s primary
reserve currency, the yen is also the best performer among major
peers after filtering out price swings, strengthening 0.5
percent, according to risk-adjusted return data compiled by
Bloomberg. Japan’s is the only Group-of-10 currency seen rising
versus the greenback next quarter, strengthening to 77 per
dollar by March 31, analyst forecasts show.  The U.K. pound and Swiss franc were the second- and third-
best performers against the dollar in 2011, finishing unchanged
and down by 0.1 percent on a risk-adjusted basis.  South Africa ’s
rand fared the worst, weakening 1 percent after taking into
account price swings, followed by the Mexican peso’s 0.7 percent
loss.  Gains in Japan’s currency underscore the retreat from risk
and losses in carry trades, whereby investors borrow in low-
interest regimes to invest in higher-risk, higher-return assets
elsewhere. Carry trades involving borrowing yen to invest in the
currencies of  Australia , South Africa,  Mexico  and  Brazil  have
lost 9.1 percent this year, according to Bloomberg data,
reversing a 1 percent gain in 2010.  Yen Bets  The Japanese currency traded at 77.86 per dollar and 101.78
versus the euro as of 11:38 a.m. New York time. For the year,
the yen advanced 4.2 percent against the greenback and 6.7
percent against the 17-nation currency.  The  difference  in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a rise in the yen compared with those
on a drop was 24,476 on Dec. 20, data from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. As recently as April
there was a net 52,983 contracts betting on a decline.  Japan’s nominal gross domestic  product  is about the same as
it was in 1992, following the collapse of the nation’s asset and
real estate bubble. The  Bank of Japan  on Oct. 27 lowered its
forecast for the country’s economic growth in 2012 to 2.2
percent from the 2.9 percent projected in July, citing effects
from the strong yen.  Job Losses  Toyota cut its earnings forecast for this fiscal year and
Nintendo predicted its first annual loss in three decades as
currency gains eroded the value of their overseas sales.  Japan may lose 600,000 jobs if the yen stays at current
levels, pushing carmakers to shift production overseas,
according to a Nov. 21  report  compiled by Trade and Industry
Minister  Yukio Edano  and posted on the website of the National
Policy Unit that reports to Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda .  “The environment will remain harsh for exporters because
they have to make a business plan taking account of the stronger
yen,” said Hiroshi Morikawa, a lead economist at the Institute
for International Monetary Affairs in  Tokyo , which conducts
research projects commissioned by the government. “Japan’s
economy is still reliant on exports, so the yen’s appreciation
has direct impact over employment, too.”  The yen’s surge to a postwar high of 75.35 to the dollar on
Oct. 31 prompted Azumi to order the nation’s third intervention
of the year that day. He said on Dec. 20 he wants the ability to
take “decisive” action in explaining a ministry plan to raise
its intervention war chest to more than 65 trillion yen.  More Interventions  A previous yen record of 79.75 reached in April 1995 stood
until March of this year, when a magnitude-9.0 earthquake struck
Japan’s northeast, stoking speculation companies would
repatriate overseas assets to pay for rebuilding. The currency
jumped to 76.25 on March 17, prompting coordinated action by
Group-of-Seven nations the next day.  Total currency sales in the year through Nov. 28 were seven
times bigger than the 2.1 trillion yen sold in one shot in 2010,
according to data from the Ministry of Finance. The currency
erased most losses in as short as five days after each
intervention and stood about 12 percent stronger on Dec. 23 than
the three-year average against the dollar.  The  Swiss National Bank  has had more success controlling
its currency by imposing a  ceiling  on the franc at 1.20 per euro
in September. The SNB promised unlimited intervention, and said
the overvaluation poses an “acute threat” to the nation’s
economy. The franc has since stayed under the ceiling.  ‘Limited’ Effect  Unlike  Switzerland , Japanese officials would “have to
issue unlimited quantities of  government bonds  if they want to
conduct unlimited intervention,” said  Junya Tanase , chief
currency strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo. “There’s
likely to be a unilateral intervention if the yen breaks a
record, but history has already proven that its effect is
limited.”  Lack of alternative havens is causing investors to buy and
hold. Three-month historical volatility in the dollar-yen rate
was at 9 percent today, the least since July and compared with a
three-year average of 12 percent. The 10.18-yen gap between the
Japanese currency’s weakest and highest points of 2011 is the
narrowest since at least 1973 when it started to trade freely.  “Once investors bought yen they had no problem holding on
to it, and that led to low volatility,” said Daisuke Uno, the
Tokyo-based chief strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.,
which manages $934 billion in customer deposits. “Lots of their
purchases appear to be for long-term holdings.”  Ballooning Debt  A worsening fiscal climate hasn’t been a deterrent. The
country lost its AAA grade from a domestic ratings company for
the first time, as Tokyo-based Ratings & Investment Information
Inc. downgraded Japan by one step on Dec. 21. Takahira Ogawa,
the Singapore-based director of sovereign ratings at  Standard &
Poor’s , said on Nov. 24 that the nation’s finances are “getting
worse and worse,” bringing it closer to a reduction.  Japan projects its public debt will exceed 1 quadrillion
yen in the current fiscal year, more than double the size of its
economy and compared with about $10 trillion for the U.S.  Countering debt concerns and supporting demand for the yen
is the fact that Japan has a surplus in its current account, the
broadest measure of trade. The surplus shields Japan from
reliance on foreign capital and is the world’s second largest
after  China ’s, according to International Monetary Fund data.  More than a decade of deflation has encouraged Japanese
lenders to buy government bonds rather than make loans, helping
to contain yields. Domestic banks are the biggest holders of
Japan’s  debt , owning 44 percent of the total at June 30,
according to a Ministry of Finance report.  Monetary Policy  The  BOJ  has maintained its benchmark  interest rate  at or
below 0.5 percent since 1995, also helping to prevent bond
yields from rising. Rates on Japan’s 10-year debt were at 0.97
percent yesterday in Tokyo, the second lowest after Switzerland
among developed nations.  Overseas money managers have boosted holdings of Japan’s
government bonds by 17.2 trillion yen this year through October,
poised for the biggest annual increase in four years. Non-
Japanese residents accounted for 8.2 percent of the total
ownership of sovereign debt at the end of September, the most
since 2008, central bank data showed this month.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year U.S. debt
instead of Japan’s securities narrowed to 73 basis points in
October, the smallest gap since 1990. The  yield spread  between
Japan and  Germany  dropped in September to the narrowest in more
than 20 years. Japanese investors have bought 5.4 trillion yen
of foreign bonds and stocks this year through November, poised
for the smallest net purchase in four years, data from the
Ministry of Finance show.  Because of the narrowing yield spreads, “there isn’t much
incentive for Japanese money managers to take currency risk and
invest in dollar or euro assets,” said  Takuji Okubo , chief
Japan economist at Societe Generale SA in Tokyo. “Money isn’t
flowing out of the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  