-- 
‘Buy French’ Becomes Crisis Battle Cry in France

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-12-07T10:52:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/-buy-french-becomes-crisis-battle-cry-in-france.html
With  France ’s economy slowing and
joblessness at its highest in 12 years, politicians are turning
to a well-worn credo: “Buy French.”  France is entering the height of its holiday spending
season with politicians egging consumers on to buy “Made in
France” products to keep jobs at home.  Consumer spending , which
accounts for 56 percent of the $2.56 trillion economy, may
create jobs if the French buy local goods, says Francois Bayrou,
a centrist candidate in the presidential elections next year.  “My proposal is to rectify our country’s brand image, to
encourage consumers to buy French and to support very small-and
medium-sized companies,” Bayrou said in a posting on his
website today, ahead of the official announcement of his
candidacy this afternoon.  As the European debt crisis rips through France, President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , who faces an election in April and May next
year, is struggling to cap unemployment. Joblessness is the
biggest concern for French people, ahead of wages and pensions,
according to a CSA survey for BFM radio in November.  Sarkozy’s  Union for a Popular Movement  party unveiled its
platform last month, saying it wants “Made in France” to
become a trademark that’s as recognizable as “Made in
Germany.” His Socialist Party rival  Francois Hollande  has made
creating jobs at home a cornerstone of his campaign.  A  poll last month showed  that more than 50 percent of
French people are willing to pay more for a “Made in France”
product. The willingness is even greater in the purchase of food
products, at 78 percent, according to the Opinion Way survey for
the monthly Terra Eco.  ‘Economic Solidarity’  Buying products that are local rather than low-cost is
driven largely by “national economic solidarity,” the poll
showed.  A separate Ifop survey for  Cedre , an association to promote
local entrepreneurs, showed that French consumers are ready to
pay 5 to 10 percent more for domestic products.  Goods manufactured in France are on average 15 to 25
percent more expensive than in countries such as  China ,
according to Vincent Gruau, head of Paris-based Cedre.  “The crisis is pushing French people to realize they must
stop being naïve; they understand that to keep jobs at home they
must consume locally,” said Gruau, who also heads Majencia, an
office-supplies maker.  The number of people actively looking for work in France
has jumped by 91,500 to 2.82 million since the start of the
year, figures published last month by the Labor Ministry show.  Record Trade Deficit  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said Nov. 28 that French unemployment will exceed 10 percent
next year and gross domestic growth in the euro-zone’s second-
largest economy will expand no more than 0.3 percent. That’s
less optimistic than Sarkozy’s target of 1 percent. The
 unemployment rate  was 9.7 percent at the end of September.  The push to buy local products also comes as France’s trade
deficit rose to 72 billion euros ($97 billion) in the year
through October, heading toward an annual record.  The rising shortfall has prompted calls from Sarkozy for
greater “reciprocity” in trade. He has suggested that the
European Union block products from countries that don’t have the
same labor, quality and environmental standards as the region.  Socialist lawmaker Arnaud Montebourg, who was defeated in
the Socialist presidential primaries, has gone so far as to call
for “de-globalization.”  Earlier this year, the far-right National Front party
candidate Marine Le Pen, who ranks third in presidential polls,
promised to create 500,000 jobs over a five-year period using
“strategic planning” and a protectionist economic policy.  ‘Patriotic Purchase’  Hollande, the frontrunner in the presidential race, is
visiting a 20-person Montceau-Les-Mines, France-based factory
today to celebrate the return of the production of an electronic
cooking recipes tablet called  “Qook”  to France from China.  Meanwhile, in spite of the economic slump, French people
will spend 1.9 percent more on Christmas shopping this year from
2010, according to a November study from Deloitte LLP. They’ll
shell out on average 606 euros on gifts, food and socializing,
compared with 449 euros for  Germany , Deloitte said.  French leaders want them to spend it on goods produced at
home, making the ”Made in France” leitmotiv pervasive.  A recent advertisement for  Renault SA ’s Megan car showed
off  French quality  with a spoof of an Opel ad that praised
German technology and reliability.  “It’s a funny ad, but it’s a symptomatic one,” said
Gruau. “We laugh because we have hang ups about our industrial
capability. Germans don’t; they are proud of their industry.”  As French Christmas shoppers flock to department stores and
browse the Internet for presents, they’ll find websites touting
Gallic products.  “To make a patriotic purchase, the solution is offer a
gift produced in France!” says  www.100pour100-madeinfrance.fr ,
a Montpellier-based online gift shop that sells liquor,
umbrellas, shoes and jewelry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  