-- 
‘Magic Mushrooms’ Return to Psychology Labs 40 Years After Leary

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-12-06T17:50:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/-magic-mushrooms-return-to-psychology-labs-40-years-after-leary.html
Cancer survivor Lauri Reamer lived in
constant dread that her disease would return, until she took a
psychedelic drug in a  Johns Hopkins University  study.  The 48-year mother of three was given psilocybin, the main
ingredient in the “ magic mushrooms ” of the 1960s, as a remedy
to ease anxiety. She spent most of her first “trip” crying,
then emerged from the next with less anxiety, better sleep and
happier relations with family and friends, she recalled.  The experience “really cracked me open,” said Reamer, an
anesthesiologist at  Johns Hopkins  in Baltimore before she was
diagnosed with leukemia. “It let me be in life again, instead
of this place of fear where I had been living.”  Almost 40 years after  Richard Nixon  called former Harvard
University psychologist  Timothy Leary  the most dangerous man in
America for promoting use of hallucinogenic substances, there is
a rebirth of interest in their therapeutic benefits. Reamer was
enrolled in a clinical trial at Johns Hopkins to relieve fear of
death in cancer patients, one of a half-dozen similar studies
under way at  New York University , Harvard, the University of
 California ,  Los Angeles , and the University of New Mexico.  The new research, largely driven by the psychiatric
community, is also testing psychedelics for use against
depression, chronic headaches and addiction as current
scientists, much like their 1960s predecessors, seek to
understand the “consciousness-expanding” effects of the drugs.  New Generation  “There’s a renaissance of interest,” said  Charles Grob , a
professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at the UCLA, who
researches psychedelics. “It took some decades for a new
generation of scientists to step up, but there was never any
doubt these compounds had potential. It was the ‘60s that
intruded.”  Psilocybin mushrooms are a schedule I substance in the
U.S., which means the government considers them to have a high
potential for abuse and no legitimate medical purpose, according
to the National Institute on Drug Abuse. These researchers think
that may be incorrect.  Though there are biological components to anxiety and
addiction, much of the underlying cause of these problems may
involve how people think about the world around them, according
to the researchers.  These drugs “diffuse in your brain and some people never
see the world the same way again,” said  David Nichols , a
pharmacologist at  Purdue University  in  West Lafayette ,  Indiana ,
in a phone interview.  Anti-Smoking Study  The research that includes Reamer is being run by  Roland
Griffiths , a professor of behavioral biology at Johns Hopkins.
He’s also testing psilocybin to help smokers quit.  On Sept. 29, Griffiths reported in the Journal of
Psychopharmacology that use of psilocybin in an earlier study
conferred a lasting personality change in some of the 51
participants tested.  Griffiths became interested in the research after starting
a meditation practice 17 years ago. He found early reports in
the scientific literature of studies tying psychedelics to
mystical experiences and other effects on visual perception and
brain function, he said in a telephone interview.  “This whole class was declared too dangerous to proceed in
the 1970s, and so it was put in a deep freeze,” Griffiths said.
“Sometimes I feel like Rip Van Winkle, awakening the potential
for research with these compounds.”  Harvard Project  Leary  did his research in the 1960s at the  Harvard
Psilocybin Project , running a series of experiments that gave
psilocybin to divinity students to gauge their spiritual
experiences and to prisoners to see if it would help keep them
out of jail after their release.  That work led to Leary’s dismissal from the Cambridge,
Massachusetts, campus in 1963, and contributed to a rise of
experiments among young people as he famously urged them to
“turn on, tune in, drop out.”  As today’s researchers pick up where those in the 1960s
left off, they do so with the benefit of U.S. Food and Drug
Administration-approved trials, better understanding of the
brain’s circuits and chemistry, and funding from private
sources, according to Griffiths.  Already, LSD and psilocybin research by psychiatrist  John
Halpern  at Harvard has led to a drug, dubbed  BOL-148 , being
developed by Boston-based startup  Entheogen Corp .  Cluster Headaches  The company is studying BOL-148, an LSD derivative, as a
treatment for cluster headaches, sometimes called suicide
headaches because they’re so painful that sufferers often kill
themselves, said Halpern, Entheogen’s co-founder.  “This is an unmet need, and cluster headaches are among
the most painful conditions known,” Halpern said in a telephone
interview. “If I did schizophrenia research, I’d have 1,000
brilliant colleagues prodding me and tons of funding available.
This is kind of like Siberia. It takes a long time to build the
trust that you are interested in doing credible work.  “I figure I’m doing my job right when someone accuses me
of supporting the drug war and someone else accuses me of
sabotaging it,” he said.  Most of the  half-dozen  studies in this area listed on
clinicaltrials.gov are funded by the  Heffter Research Institute ,
a  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based organization. The institute is
named for Arthur Heffter, the scientist who  discovered
mescaline , a drug made from the peyote cactus.  Fundraising Push  The organization has raised $2.7 million since 1993, when
it was first incorporated, and funded 70 studies in research
journals since 1999, according to Purdue’s Nichols, who is also
a co-founder of the institute.  Nichols was in school in the ‘60s, and psychedelics didn’t
quite make it to Cincinnati, where he lived, he said. Listening
to the experiences since then of those who used the chemicals,
he found they often listed their trips as being among the most
meaningful things in their lives.  Reamer, the Johns Hopkins  cancer patient , said she
experienced “visions of peace and healing.” Still, not
everyone should undergo the therapy, she said.  “It didn’t necessarily feel good, but what came out of it
was pure joy,” Reamer said. “At the end of the sessions, I was
exhausted from the emotional outpouring.”  Similar work with cancer patients is being done by  Stephen
Ross , a psychiatrist at  New York  University in  Manhattan . He’s
testing psilocybin in a nine-month death-anxiety study in which
patients receive the drug and psychotherapy. Patients receive
therapy for two to four weeks before their first dose of
psilocybin.  Calm Room  The patients are dosed in a room designed to calm with art
on the walls, classical music and flowers. Patients bring in
family photos to help make them feel comfortable, Ross said in
an interview.  Patients talk with the therapists about how they’re feeling
and what they’re experiencing, and near the end of the trip, are
asked to write journal entries. Then there are follow-up
sessions for the rest of the nine months of the study.  “Sometimes they look like they’re asleep for hours,” said
Ross, who is also director of substance abuse at Bellevue
Hospital in Manhattan. “Then they get up and tell us they’ve
had an encounter with a transcendental force, or that they were
in a beautiful dome with white light coming down, or that they
were part of an artistic picture.”  To synthesize psilocybin, Ross contacted  Organix Inc.,  a
Woburn, Massachusetts-based closely held company. The compound,
which cost $12,000 to make, is stored in a 10,000 pound safe in
the NYU School of Dentistry, where the studies are conducted.  Resurgence Credited  Nichols credits the resurgence of work in hallucinogens in
part to  Rick Strassman , a psychiatrist at the University of  New
Mexico  in  Albuquerque , who works with DMT, the active ingredient
in ayahuasca, a Colombian drug made from vines and shrubs
commonly used for religious and healing purposes.  In 1994, Strassman published a paper in the Archives of
General Psychiatry on the effects of DMT on the body’s heart and
endocrine system, and another on the drug’s subjective effects.  Since Strassman’s initial work, the volume of psychedelic
research has gradually increased, Nichols said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 