-- 
AAA Rated Nations Held Hostage by Crisis Volatility

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-12-06T09:15:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/aaa-nations-held-hostage-as-debt-crisis-amplifies-volatility-euro-credit.html
Bonds from AAA rated Austria, the
 Netherlands  and  Finland  are suffering as Europe’s debt crisis
increases volatility and erodes their haven status.  Sixty-day  volatility  on 10-year government debt from the
three nations reached euro-era records in November, as investors
increased bets the currency bloc may unravel and as yields on
Italian and Spanish securities surged. The countries were among
15 put on watch for a rating cut by Standard & Poor’s yesterday.
Europe’s leaders will try to fashion a solution to the turmoil
this week after the failure of their fourth rescue blueprint
sparked concern that the crisis will infect all 17 euro nations.  “Volatility clearly has increased and it makes life a lot
tougher for investors,” said Alex Johnson, who helps oversee
$47 billion as London-based head of  portfolio management  at
Fischer Francis Trees & Watts. “If you are invested in
countries like the Netherlands you can find that what were safe-
haven positions have become correlated with what’s going on in
the periphery, when actually the economic fundamentals are still
very good.”  The extra  interest  the Netherlands has to pay investors to
hold its 10-year bonds instead of Germany’s rose to a two-year
high of 68 basis points on Nov. 17 and stood at 40 basis points
at 9:06 a.m. London time today, more than triple this year’s low
of 13 basis points reached in March. A measure of  60-day
volatility  on the so-called spread has more than doubled to 103
percent from 49 percent six months ago.  Austrian Spread  “The higher the volatility gets, the more important it
becomes for investors,” said Niels From, chief analyst at
Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “When volatility levels are high
it is more difficult for investors to hold on to positions even
in countries that are labeled the inner core” like  Austria , the
Netherlands and Finland.  Austria’s 10-year spread over bunds swung between 84 basis
points and a euro-era high of 192 basis points in November, even
as the cabinet signed a draft law to cut its debt level to 60
percent of gross domestic product by 2020. The yield difference
was 97 basis points today, compared with an average 23 basis
points during the past 10 years.  The Finland-Germany 10-year spread reached a two-year high
of 79 basis points on Nov. 25, from a low 7 basis points low on
Jan. 12, compared with a 35 basis-points average in the past
year.  S&P Warning  The fluctuations show concern that the euro-region debt
crisis may deepen is outweighing the safety implied in the
nations’ top credit ratings and their economies’ relatively
strong fundamentals.  S&P said in a statement yesterday that  Germany  and  France 
may be stripped of their AAA ratings as the debt crisis prompts
15 euro nations to be put on review for possible downgrade
pending the result of a European Union leaders’ summit.  The firm said that ratings could be cut by one level for
Austria,  Belgium , Finland, Germany, Netherlands and Luxembourg,
and by up to two notches for the other governments.  Austria’s economy will probably expand 2.9 percent this
year, Finland’s will grow 3.1 percent and the Netherlands’ 1.8
percent, according to the latest  European Commission forecasts 
published last month, all bettering the euro-region’s aggregate
of 1.5 percent.  The nations’ debt levels as a percentage of their gross
domestic product are better than the euro-region average, the
forecasts show, with Austria’s predicted to be 73 percent in
2012, Finland’s 52 percent and the Netherland’s 65 percent. That
compares with the 90 percent average for all 17 euro-region
countries.  Overseas Investors  About 75 percent of Finland’s bonds are owned by non-
Finnish investors, Nordea estimates, which makes them more
vulnerable to fluctuations in investor sentiment than their non-
euro-region neighbor  Sweden , where about 75 percent of the
government’s bonds are held by domestic investors.  The yield premium investors demanded to hold Finland’s  10-
year  debt over that of Sweden reached a euro-era high of 137
basis points on Nov. 24 and was 99 basis points yesterday. That
compares with an average difference of 4 basis points since the
17-nation currency was introduced in 1999, according to
Bloomberg generic data.  Dutch, Austrian and Finnish bonds also suffered as
investors dumped holdings of euro-region securities and pushed
the euro down 3 percent against the dollar through November,
amid concern that the region’s leaders will struggle to bridge
differences on a crisis resolution. Holders of euro-area bonds
maturing between one and 10 years lost 2.6 percent last month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Geithner Meeting  With an EU summit in Brussels scheduled for Dec. 9, U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  is due in  Frankfurt  today to
prod political leaders. While a deal that safeguards banks,
limits damage to  Italy  and  Spain  and increases rescue funds may
help ease sentiment toward  Europe , a fresh test will come next
year when the euro-region countries face the challenge of
issuing debt that UBS AG estimates at a minimum of 730 billion
euros.  “Two weeks ago we had a very big move in the spread of
Netherlands versus Germany, a 20 basis-point move in a single
day, which is the biggest move I can remember, even before the
euro began,” said Justin Knight, a European rate strategist at
UBS Ltd. in London. “In a further escalation of the crisis we
would see more moves like that. The real problem is that there
aren’t enough buyers for Italian and Spanish government bonds
and until that is addressed then the crisis will probably
continue.”  ‘More Wary’  Austria needs to raise 20 billion euros in 2012, the
Netherlands 45 billion euros and Finland 10 billion euros, the
UBS estimates show. While the amounts are small compared with
Germany, which has 184 billion euros to raise, and Italy, which
needs 221 billion euros, souring sentiment may cause problems
for the three nations, said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist
at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in  London .  “Investors are going to be even more wary, which is going
to make all auctions more difficult,” Wand said. “Holland and
Austria and the other semi-core nations will probably be charged
more going forward regardless of their fundamentals because of
the contagion effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  