-- 
AC Milan Gets Permission to Speak to Man. City’s Tevez, Sun Says: Roundup

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-12-06T10:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/ac-milan-gets-permission-to-speak-to-man-city-s-tevez-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with links to the Web.  Tevez Green Light  AC Milan received permission from Manchester City to speak
to striker  Carlos Tevez  about a move to the Italian champion,
 the Sun reported .  Milan, looking for a striker after Antonio Cassano was
ruled out indefinitely after undergoing a heart procedure, has
yet to speak directly to City about a deal, the newspaper said.  “We don’t know what City want,” the Sun cited Milan’s
Vice President Adriano Galliani as saying. “I prefer not to
talk too much about Tevez, otherwise his price will go up and
this is not good.”  Newcastle Reinforcements  Newcastle manager Alan Pardew may sign two defenders in
January after injuries to center-backs Steven Taylor, Fabricio Coloccini and Mike Williamson,  according to the Mirror .  Montpellier captain Mapou Yanga-Mbiwa and  PSV Eindhoven ’s
Erik Pieters are on the club’s shortlist of replacements, the
newspaper said.  Taylor may miss the rest of the season, Coloccini is out
for about a month, while Williamson is unlikely to return before
Christmas, the Sun added.  Cahill to Spurs?  Tottenham will make a late move to sign Bolton’s England
defender  Gary Cahill  ahead of its Premier League rival Chelsea,
 the Mail said .  Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  also wants a striker in
January, but needs to raise funds by selling players, the
newspaper reported. Lokomotiv Moscow is ready to bid 8 million
pounds ($12.5 million) for Tottenham forward Roman Pavlyuchenko,
the Sun said.  QPR Targets Striker  Queens Park Rangers is considering a 2 million-pound move
for Barcelona B striker Jonathan Soriano,  the Sun reported .  The 26-year-old has scored more than 50 goals for the
reserves of Spanish champion Barcelona, but struggled to break
into the first team squad, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 