-- 
Aegon, Presenting to Investors, Plans ‘Decisive Steps’ to Meet Targets

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-12-06T15:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/aegon-confirms-targets-takes-steps-to-offset-market-turmoil.html
Aegon NV (AGN) , the Dutch owner of U.S.
insurer Transamerica Corp., said it’s taking “decisive steps”
to meet financial goals even as low  interest rates  and slumping
markets threaten profit growth.  “We are taking decisive steps to offset the negative
impacts of the market turmoil,” Chief Executive Officer Alex Wynaendts said in a statement ahead of a presentation to
investors in New York today, without elaborating. “We welcome
this opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to delivering on our
2015 financial targets based on our current assumptions.”  Dick Schiethart, an Aegon spokesman, said he couldn’t
comment further before the insurer’s two-day analyst and
investor event begins. Presentations are scheduled to be
published at 4 p.m.  New York  time. Wynaendts speaks at 4:30 p.m.  The insurer, which gets most of its earnings from the U.S.,
reported a 91 percent decline in quarterly profit last month
after it took a charge to reflect the likelihood of lower
interest rates. Aegon has said it will reduce costs and shift
capital from the U.S., the Netherlands and Britain to markets
such as  Turkey ,  China  and  Latin America , as well as expand in
asset management.  Aegon aims to increase underlying pretax profit by 7
percent to 10 percent a year on average until 2015 and to post a
return on equity of 10 percent to 12 percent.  Shares Rally  Those goals assume annual gross equity market returns of 9
percent and a 10-year U.S. Treasury yield of 4.75 percent in
2016, which the insurer lowered from 5.25 percent last month.
The current 10-year  Treasury yield  is less than 2.1 percent.
Lower rates put pressure on insurers’ returns from their bond
holdings.  Aegon shares rose 2 cents, or 0.6 percent, to 3.39 euros at
3:27 p.m. in Amsterdam trading, reversing an earlier decline of
as much as 2.9 percent. The shares are down 26 percent so far
this year, exceeding the 9.6 percent drop by the  Bloomberg
Europe 500 Insurance Index. (BEINSUR)   “The low stock valuation highlights concerns over earnings
potential in a low-yield environment, and statements on this
topic will be followed with interest,”  Albert Ploegh , an
Amsterdam-based analyst at ING Groep NV, said in a note
yesterday. He has a “buy” recommendation on the shares. “The
U.S. business is rather sensitive to interest-rate movements.”  Aegon aims to boost income from fee-based products to as
much as 35 percent of earnings, seeing them as a more stable
source of income than products that rely on interest-rate
spreads, such as fixed annuities.  The company’s U.S. results have suffered as higher fee
income was offset by lower income from fixed annuities. The
insurer, whose Pyramid building is a landmark in  San Francisco ’s
financial district, reported a 13 percent drop in third-quarter
underlying pretax income from the Americas to 310 million euros
($414 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  