-- 
Afghanistan to Offer Four Copper, Gold Deposits for Tender

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-12-06T07:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/afghanistan-to-offer-four-copper-gold-deposits-for-tender.html
Afghanistan  said it’s seeking
investors for four mineral deposits containing copper and gold,
a week after Indian steel and mining companies announced plans
to spend as much as $11 billion in the war-ravaged country.  The government is starting a tender process for deposits in
the provinces of Badakhshan, Ghazni, Heart and Sar-I-Pul, and
Balkh, according to a statement today. The Badakhshan gold site
comprises four license areas of 250 square kilometers (62,000
acres) each, while the Zarkashan copper-gold project in Ghazni
province hosts two licenses of 242 square kilometers each.  India and China have so far led foreign investment in the
country’s  mineral resources . A group of seven Indian steel and
mining companies last week said they planned to invest $11
billion to develop iron ore mines and build a steel mill and
power plant, after winning contracts in the country. The group,
led by state-run  Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) , won bids for
three of four iron-ore mines offered in the Hajigak region.  “The country’s rich mineral resources have the potential
to transform the nation’s economy and provide early investors
with substantial upside,” Wahidullah Shahrani, minister of
mines, said in the statement. “Assessments of only a fraction
of the country’s land area indicate the potential for
considerable mineral resources.”  Shahrani’s promoting the tender in  London  this week. The
offer is expected to lead to mining accords, including licenses
for exploration and possibly exploitation, it said. Canaccord
Genuity, SRK Consulting and Mayer Brown advising on the tender.  Indian Ore  The Balkhab copper project in Sar-I-Pul and Balkh provinces
in north-central  Afghanistan  has two exploration license areas
of 210 square kilometers and 247 square kilometers. The Shaida
copper project in the Adraskan District of the Herat province
comprises one exploration license of 250 square kilometers.  One of the tenders won by the Indian group of investors
last week included the Hajigak iron ore project, the country’s
biggest deposit of the steel-making raw material.  Hajigak, a series of rugged mountain ridges 100 kilometers
(60 miles) west of Kabul, holds an estimated 1.8 billion metric
tons of ore and is the biggest mining project on offer in a
country that the U.S. government estimated last year holds $1
trillion of untapped minerals. State-owned Metallurgical Corp.
of  China  is developing the Aynak copper mine in Afghanistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  