-- 
Karzai Cuts Short Europe Trip After Afghanistan Bombings Kill at Least 59

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-12-07T07:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/afghanistan-blasts-kill-at-least-19-people-marking-islam-s-ashura-holiday.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai 
canceled plans to visit the U.K. today, heading home following
three bombings that targeted worshipers observing a Shiite
Muslim holiday and sparked fears of sectarian violence.  A suicide bomber detonated an explosive vest at the gate of
the Abul Fazl shrine in Kabul, killing 55 people, Hashmatullah
Stanekzai, a spokesman for police in the capital, said by phone.
Bombs also exploded at Shiite observances of the Ashura holiday
in the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif and the southern city of
Kandahar.  Afghanistan has largely avoided the violence between Sunnis
and Shiites that have been part of the struggles in Pakistan and
 Iraq . The attacks, which were condemned by the Taliban, raise
the risk that sectarian bloodshed may be exported to  Afghanistan 
by Pakistan-based groups, the Austin, Texas risk analysis
company Stratfor said, as the U.S.-led coalition plans for a
2014 pullout.  The series of “attacks work against the Taliban strategy
and highlight a breach in Taliban control over the various
militant groups active in Afghanistan,” Stratfor analyst Ben
West wrote in a report.  The Kabul attack, in which 134 were wounded, targeted
worshipers who had gathered for Ashura, which marks the death 14
centuries ago of a Muslim leader, Imam Hussein, the prophet
Muhammad’s grandson. Afghan Islamic Press, a  news agency  in the
Pakistani provincial capital of  Peshawar , said it received a
phone call claiming responsibility for the Kabul attack from the
Pakistan-based anti-Shiite militant group, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi.  Targeting Shiites  Lashkar is an organization of Islam’s Sunni Deobandi sect
and has conducted scores of bombings and shootings against
minority Shiites in  Pakistan .  “Before I arrived at the gate, there was a huge explosion
and I fell down,” said Shuja Ahmad, 35, a government employee
who had come to the mosque for Ashura prayers. “I saw people
running, screaming and crying and saw bodies everywhere.”  Afghanistan’s main militant movement, the Taliban, arrested
or killed thousands of Shiites in Mazar-e-Sharif and other
cities during the Taliban regime in the 1990s. Still, those
attacks didn’t include bombings of religious ceremonies and
inciting a Shiite backlash now amid the Taliban’s fight against
U.S.-led forces “does not fit into their strategy,” Stratfor
said in an e-mailed analysis.  ‘Against Islamic Law’  Zabihullah Mujahed, a Taliban spokesman, denied in an e-
mail that his group was responsible for the attacks, saying that
“the brutal incidents that happened in Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif
are against Islamic law and humanity.” His e-mail said that
“the foreigners want civilians to hate the Taliban more and
more.”  The attacks increase concerns of a more complex civil war
in Afghanistan as the U.S.-led coalition hands over to the
Afghan army and police. A second round of formal transfers of
security responsibility is underway in provinces and districts
throughout the country. Those transfers are due to be completed
by the end of 2014, when a limited U.S. force is to remain to
support Afghan government forces.  The top U.S. military commander in Afghanistan, General
John Allen, has privately recommended delaying new American
troop withdrawals planned by the Obama administration until
2014, the Wall Street Journal reported today.  “One of the worries is that various factions in
Afghanistan have already begun to prepare themselves for another
civil war in the aftermath of a U.S. and coalition withdrawal,”
said Andrew Exum, a senior fellow at the Center for a New
American Security, a Washington-based defense policy research
group.  Regional Factions  Regional factions may be trying to consolidate power that
skirts the central government, which the U.S. and its allies are
seeking to strengthen, said Exum, a former Army platoon leader
in Afghanistan who has advised U.S. commanders.  In the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif, a bomb attached to
a bicycle exploded as people walked across a street to attend an
Ashura ceremony, said Sherjan Durani, a spokesman for the Balkh
province government. Four people were killed and seven wounded,
Durani said.  A bomb that was placed on a parked motorcycle in the
southern city of Kandahar exploded without killing anyone, said
Zalmai Ayoubi, a spokesman for the province.  The attacks marked “the first time that on such an
important religious day in Afghanistan, terrorism of that
horrible nature is taking place,” Karzai said in Berlin
yesterday after meeting with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .
Karzai attended an international conference on the future of
Afghanistan Dec. 5 in Bonn, and was scheduled to go to  London .  The U.S. Embassy in Kabul released a  statement  condemning
the bombings, which it said occurred “nearly simultaneously.”
The U.S. “remains undeterred in standing with the Afghan people
against the scourge of terrorism in our mutual aim of promoting
peace and prosperity,” the statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  