-- 
Major League Baseball Seeks to Stop Fox From Questioning Selig on Dodgers

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-12-06T19:55:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/major-league-baseball-seeks-to-stop-fox-from-questioning-selig-on-dodgers.html
Major League Baseball  said Fox Sports
shouldn’t be allowed to question Commissioner  Bud Selig  under
oath about the sale of the bankrupt  Los Angeles Dodgers .  Fox is seeking to question Selig and to obtain copies of
documents related to a settlement that requires team owner  Frank
McCourt  to sell the club, Major League Baseball said in a letter
filed today in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .
The confidential settlement ended a months-long battle between
the baseball commissioner and McCourt over how to reorganize the
Dodgers.  “Fox should not be permitted to drag Major League Baseball
back into the very litigation morass from which it extracted
itself through the settlement,” Glenn Kurtz, an attorney for
Selig, said in a letter to the judge overseeing the Dodgers’
bankruptcy.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June with plans to sell
television rights to future games, which Fox Sports Net West 2
LLC holds through the 2013 season. The team wants to accelerate
the marketing process for the rights by first giving Fox 45 days
to extend its contract. Should that fail, the team would seek
other bids, according to court documents.  Negotiations in 2012  Fox, a unit of New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA) , claims McCourt is
wrongly trying use bankruptcy to break the team’s current TV
contract with Fox’s Prime Ticket unit. That contract prevents
any negotiations on future TV rights before December 2012.  Last month, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross rejected
Fox’s request to prepare for a Dec. 7 hearing on the TV rights
by questioning Selig and McCourt. Fox shouldn’t be allowed to
question Selig in preparation for a separate Dec. 27 hearing, at
which the broadcaster will try to persuade Gross to throw the
Dodgers out of bankruptcy, MLB said in its letter.  Fox Sports, through spokesman Chris Bellitti, declined to
comment.  Under the Dodgers’ deal with MLB, McCourt agreed to sell
the team and MLB agreed not to oppose a separate bidding process
for the television rights. Under the proposed rules, no sale of
the TV rights can go forward without approval from MLB, Gross
and whoever wins the bidding for the team.  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  