-- 
AMR Wins Appeals Ruling Over $30 Million Airport-Security Grant From TSA

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-06T22:14:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/amr-wins-appeals-ruling-over-30-million-airport-security-grant-from-tsa.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  won a
federal appeals court ruling over a $30 million Transportation
Security Administration grant it sought for a baggage-security
system at  John F. Kennedy International Airport .  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  today said the TSA
improperly rejected American’s request for reimbursement for the
system, which was put in place at the New York airport after the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The three-judge panel ordered
to agency to reconsider its decision.  The agency acted “arbitrarily and capriciously” in
denying the airline’s request “without providing a sufficient
rationale on the record for doing so,” Judge David Sentelle
wrote in the opinion.  American said it constructed a so-called in-line baggage
security system at JFK in 2002 to detect explosives at the
urging of the TSA, according to the ruling. An in-line system
checks for explosives while luggage is on the airport’s baggage
conveyor.  At the time, the airline preferred a system that screened
bags in the airport lobby at standalone stations, noting the in-
line system would require alterations to the terminal building,
according to the ruling.  TSA Assurance  American claims the TSA “assured the airline” that once
Congress had authorized funds for airport security its request
for reimbursement would receive “favorable and expedited”
consideration, according to the ruling.  In 2004, Congress enacted a law urging the TSA to “move
faster” with the installation of in-line baggage screening at
the country’s airports and develop a formula for cost-sharing
between government and private entities. That year, American
petitioned the TSA for reimbursement.  Three years later, Congress ordered the TSA to set
priorities for requests to fund the in-line systems.  In an October 2010 letter, TSA Administrator  John Pistole 
denied the Fort Worth, Texas-based airline’s bid for the money,
saying “reimbursement for previous work outside a formal
agreement comes at the cost of advancing current or future
security measures,” according to the court’s ruling.  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, said the
department is reviewing the appeals court decision.  “Today’s court decision affirms that the federal statutory
mandate requiring payment was not followed in this matter,”  Tim
Smith , an American spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Given the court’s decision, American looks forward to meeting
with the TSA to discuss this further.”  American, once the world’s largest airline, and AMR filed
for Chapter 11 protection from creditors Nov. 29, listing $24.7
billion in assets and $29.6 billion in debt.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v.  Transportation
Security Administration , 10-1418, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 