-- 
AMR Creditor Panel Risks Split Over Labor With Unions Holding Three Seats

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-12-07T00:31:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/amr-creditor-panel-risks-split-as-unions-claim-three-seats.html
American Airlines ’ disputes with its
three largest unions may resurface in bankruptcy after the labor
groups won seats on the creditors committee for parent AMR Corp.  Unions for the carrier’s  pilots,  flight attendants and
mechanics join the panel after failing to reach new contract
agreements with American in  negotiations  that began as far back
as 2006. American parent AMR Corp. singled out industry-leading
labor costs as one reason for its Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing.  The unsecured creditors committee, which also includes
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and banks acting for bondholders, represents those
owed money by American when it sought court protection. It will
have a say in major decisions made by American outside of normal
business while the carrier is in bankruptcy, including whether
to shrink in size, terminate its pensions or merge with another
airline.  “I find it surprising that all three unions made it on a
nine-person committee,” said  Eric Smith , an attorney with
Schnader Harrison Segal & Lewis LLP in Pittsburgh who has taken
part in previous airline bankruptcy cases. “The driving force
behind this filing is the labor issues.”  Labor is “a critical component of every airline,” Smith
said. “That’s the calculus the trustee went through in putting
them on the committee. You don’t want some major union left
out.”  Bankruptcy Monitor  The nine-member creditors committee was named by the U.S.
Trustee, a Justice Department unit that monitors bankruptcy
proceedings.  “An American Airlines with an industry competitive cost
and debt structure is in the best interests of the unsecured
creditors represented by the committee and all of the company’s
stakeholders,” said American’s spokesman,  Sean Collins , in an
e-mailed statement.  The  Allied Pilots Association ,  Association of Professional
Flight Attendants  and Transport Workers Union represent more
than 48,800 workers at  Fort Worth , Texas-based American, or
about 73 percent of the total. Some employees at AMR’s regional
carrier, American Eagle, also are TWU members.  American is expected to seek to change its existing labor
agreements to lower costs and boost productivity, and may try to
terminate its pensions and turn them over to the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corp. The U.S. agency, created to protect private
retirement benefits, earlier estimated employees may lose about
$1 billion in pension benefits if the plans are ended.  Union Job  “We’re going to do our job as a union, to fight like hell
so that frontline workers don’t pay an unfair price for
management’s failings,” Jim Little, international president of
the TWU, said in a statement of the union’s role on the
committee. “This will be a long and difficult process.”  AMR filed for bankruptcy two weeks after Allied Pilots
Association leaders declined to send American’s last contract
offer to its members for a vote, saying it “clearly” would be
rejected. The airline, which was headed for a fourth straight
yearly loss, has said it has an $800 million annual labor cost
disadvantage to its peers.  The creditors committee also would play a critical role in
any potential takeover of American.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
withdrew its $9.75 billion hostile takeover bid for bankrupt
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  in January 2007 after its creditors
committee refused to support the move. Delta management
convinced the panel the carrier would be stronger if it emerged
from bankruptcy independent.  Delta Pilots  “Clearly the Delta pilots found significant value in being
on that creditors committee,” Howie Schack, a pilots union
spokesman, said in an interview. “We have to be a part of that
committee to steer the company toward building the airline as
opposed to alternatives that aren’t of interest to our pilots.”  US Airways  has been named by analysts as a potential
partner for American, which fell from being the world’s biggest
airline when Delta bought Northwest Airlines Corp. and  United
Airlines (UAL)  parent UAL Corp. merged with Continental Airlines.  The other members of the creditors committee are Wilmington
Trust Co., Manufacturers and Traders Trust Co.,  Bank of New York
Mellon (BK)  Corp., the PBGC and Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Services
LLC. The law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
was named to represent it during bankruptcy.  Moelis & Co., the investment bank founded by Kenneth Moelis, was named as the financial adviser for the creditors
committee, said a person familiar with the matter who wasn’t
authorized to discuss it publicly and didn’t want to be
identified.  Andrea Hurst, a spokeswoman for New York-based Moelis,
declined to comment.  Airing Conflicts  Disagreements aren’t unusual on such panels because they
have to represent a broad range of interests, said David
Carlson, a law professor at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of
Law at Yeshiva University whose specialties include bankruptcy.  “Creditors committees aren’t designed to avoid conflicts,
but to bring them forth so they can be aired out,” Carlson said
in an interview. “This is what Chapter 11 committees are
about.”  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AMR) , 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  