-- 
Anadarko Considers Potential Sale of Mozambique Gas Fields

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-12-06T23:53:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/anadarko-considers-potential-sale-of-mozambique-gas-fields.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the
independent oil and natural-gas producer paying $4 billion for
its role in an  oil spill  last year, is mulling the possible sale
of a portion of its Mozambique gas fields.  Mozambique is a “tremendous asset” and presents an
opportunity for Anadarko to possibly “monetize” the holdings,
Chuck Meloy, a senior vice president of worldwide operations,
said at a Capital One Southcoast conference in  New Orleans  that
was  broadcast  on the Internet today.  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands, Texas, said Nov. 28 that
fields off the coast of Mozambique may have 15 trillion to 30
trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas, compared with an earlier
estimate of at least 10 trillion cubic feet. The company and its
partners are moving forward with plans to build a liquefied
natural gas plant in the country, with a final decision to be
made in 2013,  John Christiansen , a spokesman for Anadarko, said.  “What they’re basically doing is saying, ‘As we create
some value, we’re going to take some of that value and collect
it as cash up front rather than waiting five or 10 years for the
project,’” Bob Brackett, a senior analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in New York, said in a telephone interview today.  Anadarko, the largest U.S. independent oil and gas producer
by market value, has an agreement to pay London-based BP Plc $4
billion to settle claims related to an offshore U.S. oil spill
in the Gulf of Mexico last year. Anadarko had a stake in BP’s
Macondo well, which caused the spill. Independent  oil companies 
don’t own refining, chemical or retail fuel businesses.  Partner Possible  Brackett, who has a “market perform” on Anadarko shares
and owns none, said the company may seek a partner such as a
large integrated  oil company  to help with marketing and building
of an LNG gas-export plant. A facility that would turn the gas
into liquid for exporting may cost $6 billion or more, Brackett
said.  Anadarko has said it may look to build two to six LNG
production units so gas could be sent to Asia or elsewhere. The
company’s current Mozambique partners include  Cove Energy Plc (COV) 
and  Mitsui & Co. (8031)   Anadarko has said it’s considering a sale of its share in
Brazilian offshore blocks to help pay off debt, assets analysts
estimate may be worth $3 billion to $5 billion.  Anadarko President Al Walker said at a Bank of America
Corp. conference on Nov. 15 the company will probably make a
final  investment decision  on the Mozambique project before
deciding on a possible sale of some holdings.  “We hope there will be options to consider how to use the
position that we’ve taken to lever it into using some other
people’s money along the way to the benefit of them as well as
ourselves,” Walker said last month. “It is going to be a very
capital-intensive project, as LNG projects are.”  Anadarko, Walker said, has been “pretty good about
thinking about how to monetize things.”  Anadarko fell 0.2 percent to $81.54 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  