-- 
Mandelbrot Beats Economics in Fathoming Markets: Mark Buchanan

-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 
2011-12-06T00:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/mandelbrot-beats-economics-in-fathoming-markets-mark-buchanan.html
The possible collapse of the European
monetary union, at least in its current form, brings home the
truth that there’s little in economics that is certain. We’re
again “thinking the unthinkable,” as we were a few years ago
when we suddenly realized that financial engineering hadn’t
banished financial crises, and that 70 years of relative
stability since the Great Depression didn’t guarantee a thing.  It seems that we’re complete suckers for the illusion of
certainty and the seeming unlikelihood of the unthinkable, even
though financial and economic history is one long string of
crises. This time always seems different, until it turns out not
to be.  Nothing in mainstream “neoclassical” finance theory
explains these persistent crises. Almost without exception,
economists since  Adam Smith  have viewed economic systems as
being in balance or equilibrium, and as having a natural
tendency to return there after any disturbance. In this view,
crises can be understood only as anomalies, the consequences of
unusual outside shocks.  All this makes for tidy and comforting theory, with simple
mathematics, but it fails utterly to account for the most basic
market dynamics. Most notably, large and violent events -- like
the stock market crash of 1987 or the flash crash of last May --
happen far more frequently than equilibrium theories suggest. In
fact, the pronounced frequency of market upheavals is precisely
what’s most constant in economics.  Over the past 15 years or so, physicists have demonstrated
this in mathematical studies of market volatility. Inspired by
work of the mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot in the 1960s, these
scientists have used enormous sets of historical data --
hundreds of millions of minute-by-minute prices stretching over
more than a decade, and daily and monthly prices over half a
century -- to  show  that large market movements, up or down,
follow a single mathematical pattern.  Larger movements of, say, 10 percent to 15 percent, are
less likely than movements of 3 percent to 5 percent. And the
probability of a movement decreases in simple inverse proportion
to the cube of its size: If moves of 5 percent or more have a
certain likelihood, then moves of 10 percent or more are 8 (2
cubed) times less likely, and moves of 20 percent or more are in
turn 8 times even less likely. But they still occur with some
regularity.  This pattern, it turns out, can be seen in markets for
stocks, foreign exchange and futures around the world. And it is
every bit as regular as the statistical patterns physicists know
for the movements of molecules in solids, liquids and gases, or
for innumerable other physical phenomena. It’s too regular to be
an accident, and it is as deserving of fundamental explanation
as anything in the rest of science.  ‘The Fat Tail’  There are practical implications, of course, as  Nassim Taleb  explored in his book “The  Black Swan .” Among other
things, this particular pattern -- scientists describe it as a
“fat tail” in the probability distribution -- suggests that
really big movements are much more common than we might suppose.
Thinking of markets in terms of the usual statistics that apply
to things like people’s heights or weights or test scores leads
to gross underestimation of the risks of rare catastrophes.  A credible economic theory of markets -- something we do
not yet have -- would explain why the distribution of market
returns shows such a preponderance of large events. It would
account for why the mathematical form of this distribution is so
uniform in markets the world over.  And, importantly, it would explain why markets share the
same pattern with many other natural systems. Look, for example,
at the flow of traffic on the Internet, solar flare activity on
the Sun, the course of biological evolution or earthquake
frequency on the San Andreas fault, and you see patterns
strikingly similar to those in financial markets. All these
systems and many others exhibit a naturally irregular rhythm in
which long periods of relative quiescence are sporadically
broken by bursts of intense upheaval.  The mathematical similarity between markets and other
natural systems goes deeper still. Consider volatility -- a
measure of the momentary vigor of a market’s erratic movements
up and down. Eugene Stanley, a physicist at  Boston University ,
and his colleagues have  shown  in recent studies that bursts of
high volatility in the stock market tend to cluster in time in
the same way that earthquake aftershocks do. They follow a
precise pattern known as Omori’s Law -- named for  Fusakichi
Omori , the Japanese seismologist -- which describes the
likelihood of aftershocks in the days and weeks following an
earthquake.  This similarity between market movements and earthquake
aftershocks seems weird if you think of a financial market as a
system in equilibrium that naturally balances people’s
conflicting aims and desires. But it looks less weird and even
quite natural if you think of a market as just another system
that, like the Earth’s crust, is perpetually driven out of
balance by the action of various forces, and responds to those
forces in complex, dynamic ways.  It’s not so surprising that the best  emerging models  of
markets look a lot like models of disequilibrium processes in
other areas of science. They eschew the “rational agents” of
neoclassical economic theory and instead view markets as systems
involving interactions among people and companies with realistic
characteristics -- prone to mistakes, always learning and
adapting, and often copying what others do. These models see
markets as driven by feedback and instability, as is the case
with most other natural systems.  It’s fair to say these models don’t yet give us an adequate
understanding of the basic patterns we see in markets, but they
at least move in the right direction by taking the historical
data seriously and trying to explain it. Nothing in mainstream
economics seems as likely to succeed in this. “I urge students
to read narrowly within economics, but widely in science,”
 Vernon Smith  wrote in his 2002  Nobel Prize  for economics
lecture, because “within economics there is essentially only
one model to be adapted to every application.”  Simple ideas of equilibrium and balance may flatter our
Platonic prejudices, but they don’t fit the real world. Nothing
in the mathematics and physical science of the past 30 years
stands out so much as the increasing importance of the
irregular, the chaotic and the disordered in every part of the
natural world. In many cases, this disorder isn’t simply random,
but rather contains important regularities. Finding the expected
disorder in the marketplace, and understanding its origins,
could give economics a much stronger scientific foundation.  (Mark Buchanan, a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  Mark Buchanan  at
 buchanan.mark@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  