-- 
Anglo American Approves $1.7 Billion Grosvenor Coal Project

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-12-06T16:49:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/anglo-american-approves-1-7-billion-grosvenor-coal-project-1-.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the third-largest
miner of coal used in steel, approved the $1.7 billion Grosvenor
project in Queensland as it seeks to triple Australian output.  Grosvenor, south of the company’s Moranbah North mine, will
produce 5 million metric tons a year and a study is under way
for an expansion, Anglo said today in a statement. The company
had forecast initial production at the mine of 4.3 million tons.  Anglo plans to spend $85 billion in the next decade raising
output of coal, copper,  iron ore  and other metals and minerals
needed in fast-expanding Asian economies. Under the proposals,
it will seek to boost Australian production threefold by 2020.  Projected development costs at Grosvenor of $340 a ton of
capacity are higher than expected, “reflecting continued capex
inflation for mining projects across the globe,”  Tony Robson ,
an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, wrote in a note today, citing
the securities company’s earlier estimate of $233 a ton.  Anglo said the ratio of investment to output was “highly
competitive.” Rivals BHP Billiton Ltd. and Mitsubishi Corp. in
March announced $1.6 billion of spending on the Daunia mine in
Australia for 4.5 million tons of annual output, or $355 a ton.
Anglo fell 0.3 percent to 2,494.5 pence at the close in  London .  “Grosvenor is the first of our next phase growth projects
and will initiate our industry leading production growth of
metallurgical coal from our Australian business over the next
decade,” Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  said.  First production of coal at Grosvenor is expected in 2013,
depending on necessary permits and licenses, Anglo said in the
statement. The company has won permission from the  Queensland
government  to expand the Abbot Point coal port, it added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  