-- 
Anglo American Replaces Brazil Iron Ore Head Weber After Delays, Overruns

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-12-07T18:53:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/anglo-american-said-to-replace-ceo-of-brazil-iron-ore-business-amid-delays.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the mining
company investing $14 billion in projects in  Brazil , named Paulo Castellari as chief executive officer of its iron-ore unit in
the country to replace Stephan Weber.  Castellari is commercial director at the Brazil operation,
running strategy, business development, sales and marketing and
the supply chain, London-based Anglo said in a statement today.
Weber, who held the position for about two years, will explore
other opportunities, Anglo said, without saying if he resigned.  Castellari will oversee construction of Anglo’s largest
project, the Minas Rio iron-ore site, which has suffered delays
and cost overruns since it was bought in 2008. The project will
have initial annual capacity of 26.5 million metric tons and the
company expects its first shipment in the second half of 2013.  Under Weber, “we have achieved significant progress with
the Minas-Rio project and the operational turnaround of Amapa,”
Anglo CEO Cynthia Carroll said in the statement.  Minas Rio includes a mine, processing plant and 326-mile
(525-kilometer) pipeline to Acu Port in  Rio de Janeiro  state.
The company is studying expanding the project to produce about
80 million tons a year, Weber said in Brasilia on Nov. 23.  Anglo faced delays in getting permits and project design
changes that boosted the cost of developing Minas Rio from an
estimated investment of $3.8 billion in February 2010. The
company also pushed back the start date to 2013 from 2010.  Anglo fell 0.5 percent to 2,482.5 pence at the close in
London. The stock declined about 26 percent during 2011.  Elsewhere in Brazil  In Brazil, Anglo also operates the $1.9 billion Barro Alto
nickel project, which began production in March and expects to
reach 41,000 tons of annual output in 2013 after attaining full
capacity in the second half of next year. The miner also has
phosphate and niobium businesses after reversing a decision to
sell its Copebras SA and Mineracao Catalao units.  Castellari was trained in administration at the Getulio
Vargas Foundation and strategic planning at the  London  Business
School and has held several positions within Anglo since 1996.  He was appointed commercial director of the Brazilian iron-
ore unit this year, according to Anglo’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  