-- 
Apple, Google, Oxford University, Jolie: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-12-06T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/apple-google-oxford-university-jolie-intellectual-property.html
For two years,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has told
the world that phones running on Google Inc.’s Android operating
system are iPhone rip-offs. Now Apple is about to learn whether
a U.S. trade agency thinks its claims have merit.  The International Trade Commission is set to rule Dec. 14
in a patent complaint lodged by Apple against rival smartphone
maker  HTC Corp. (2498)  The decision, postponed from the original date
of tomorrow, would mark the first final verdict from any
judicial entity in Apple’s global patent war against HTC and
fellow Android-phone makers  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc.   A ruling for Apple may lead to a ban on U.S. imports of HTC
devices, derailing the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company’s
trajectory from a small contract manufacturer founded in 1997 to
the biggest U.S. smartphone seller in the third quarter. A
victory for HTC may help it secure favorable terms in any
settlement with Apple.  “In the past two years, HTC has emerged essentially from
obscurity by promoting their own brand and high-end phones, and
they’ve largely been able to do this by leveraging Android,”
said Alex Spektor, an analyst with Strategy Analytics Inc.  HTC generated about $5 billion in U.S. sales last year,
according to a separate patent complaint it filed at the trade
agency against Cupertino, California-based Apple. That’s more
than half of HTC’s $9.1 billion (NT$275 billion) in global 2010
sales.  HTC sold 24 percent of the smartphones in the U.S. during
the third quarter, ahead of Samsung’s 21 percent and Apple’s 20
percent, Canalys reported Oct. 31. The Android platform accounts
for almost 70 percent of the U.S. smartphone market, the  Palo
Alto , California-based researcher said. There were 120.4 million
smartphones worldwide in the third quarter, a 49 percent jump
from the year-ago period, Canalys said.  HTC’s Android phones, introduced in 2008, infuriated  Steve Jobs , according to Walter Isaacson’s biography of the late Apple
founder. Jobs made it his mission “to destroy Android,” which
he said “ripped off the iPhone, wholesale,” according to the
book.  Apple contends that HTC’s Android phones infringe four
Apple patents, including one for a system to detect telephone
numbers in e-mails so they can be stored in directories or
called without dialing the numbers. The commission is reviewing
an agency judge’s findings that HTC infringed that patent and
one covering the transmission of multiple types of data, along
with two other Apple patents that the judge said weren’t
infringed.  The case is one of about a dozen before the commission
related to the dispute over Android devices. Microsoft is
fighting with Motorola Mobility and Barnes & Noble Inc., while
Apple has legal disputes with HTC, Samsung and Motorola Mobility
around the world.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Personal Data and
Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, 337-710,
U.S. International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  Google’s Schmidt Says Patents Shouldn’t Block Innovation  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said patents should not
block innovation.  “It is very important that patents are not used to stop
things,” Schmidt said in a Brussels speech yesterday at the
 Innovation Convention  organized by the European Commission.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  New College, Oxford, Seeks Trademark Registration in U.K.  University of Oxford’s 632-year-old  New College  is seeking
U.K. registration of its name as a trademark in the wake of an
application filed to register London-based New College of the
Humanities as a trademark, the BBC  reported .  A spokeswoman for private for-profit  New College of the
Humanities , which hasn’t yet admitted any students, told the  BBC 
she didn’t think there would be any confusion over the two names
given the older school’s “great heritage” and her
institution’s “distinct positioning around humanities and
social science.”  New College, Oxford, one of the university’s constituent
colleges, is seeking registration for its entire name because
“New College” by itself is considered too broad for
protection, the BBC reported.  Its application covers a wide range of uses, including
cufflinks, wastebaskets and umbrellas, according to the BBC.  Non-Kardashian Seeks Registration for ‘KardashianLash’ Trademark  A resident of Beverly Hills,  California , filed an
application to register “KardashianLash” as a trademark,
according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  In the application she filed Nov. 9, Sarah Ehrlich said she
plans to use the mark with “medicated liquid eyeliner for the
purpose of enabling eyelash growth.”  Ehrlich’s application has raised the ire of the  Kardashian
family of reality-television performers , who are threatening an
infringement lawsuit, according to the celebrity gossip website
TMZ.com. Ehrlich  told TMZ.com  she didn’t think the Kardashians
would mind and that she would sell her product to finance
cosmetology school for Honduran orphans.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Jolie’s Film Accused of Infringement by Bosnian Journalist  Angelina Jolie ’s film “ In the Land of Blood and Honey ”
infringes the copyright of a Croatian journalist, according to a
complaint filed Dec. 2 in federal court in  Chicago .  The actress, who is making her directorial debut with the
film, is accused of infringing copyrights to the Croatian-
language book “The Soul Shattering” by  James J. Braddock .  In the complaint he says his book and Jolie’s film “share
similarities so substantial” that the production and
distribution of the film constitutes copyright infringement.  Braddock cites many similarities between the book and the
film, including the fact that both are love stories taking place
in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the early 1990s, the main female
character is Muslim, and in both works, she is subject to abuse
and rape by soldiers and officers. He says that the main male
character in both works is a high-ranking “Greater Serbian”
nationalist and army officer.  He claims that he met repeatedly with a Bosnian resident
and film producer who is a co-defendant with Jolie, and that
they discussed making a film from his book. He learned of
Jolie’s film in 2010, and that the Bosnian film producer was
“actively involved in its production.”  Braddock, who is also known as Josip J. Knezevic, asked the
court for money damages, and awards of litigation costs and
attorney fees. Additionally, he asked for an order barring the
distribution and performance of the film.  One of the other co-defendants is  GK Films  of  Santa Monica ,
California, producer of the film. GK didn’t respond immediately
to an e-mailed request for comment.  Braddock is represented by  Mark D. Belongia  and  Kelly A.
Saindon  of  Belongia, Shapiro & Franklin LLP  of Chicago.  The case is James J. Braddock v. Angelina Jolie, 11-
cv-08597, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  Copyrights, Images From Early  Marilyn Monroe  Photo Shoot Sold  Photos and the copyrights to those images from the late
Marilyn Monroe’s first photo shoot sold at auction for $352,000,
the  Associated Press   reported .  The photos, taken in 1946, before the actress changed her
name from Norman Jeane Dougherty, came with negatives and the
right to sell and distribute the images, according to AP.  The sale was part of the “Icons & Idols” auction in
 Beverly Hills , California, and also featured a dress worn by pop
singer Lady Gaga.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Maine  Town Uses Secret to Build Free-Standing Lobster Trap Tree  The town of Rockland, Maine, says its municipal lobster-
trap Christmas tree uses a trade secret engineering method so it
doesn’t have to be anchored to the ground,  according to  the
Bangor Daily News.  Because of this trade secret, Rockland is claiming it has
 Maine’s tallest freestanding lobster-trap tree , even though its
tree is lower than those constructed in other nearby towns, the
Bangor Daily News reported.  Rockland uses red and green lobster traps that are
specially constructed for use in the tree, financed by a raffle
that will award 100 of the traps to the raffle winner, according
to the newspaper.  The lobster-trap Christmas tree will be featured Dec. 10 on
“Extreme Christmas Trees” on  Discovery Communications Inc.’s (DISCA) 
TLC channel, the Bangor Daily News reported.  IP Moves  Kelley Drye Hires IP Litigator Paul Garcia From Kirkland & Ellis  Kelley Drye & Warren LLP  hired Paul R. Garcia for its IP
practice group, the  New York  based firm said in a  statement .  Garcia , who joins from Chicago’s  Kirkland & Ellis LLP , does
IP litigation and appellate work. He has previously served as an
Assistant U.S. Attorney.  He has represented clients in trademark, trade secret,
trade dress and false advertising disputes involving such
technologies as pharmaceutical products, food items, satellite
television and auto manufacturing.  He has an undergraduate degree in Political Science and
Hispanic Studies from Vassar College, and a law degree from the
 University of Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 