-- 
Argentina Debt Swap Architect Lorenzino to Lead Country’s Economy Ministry

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-06T20:38:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/argentina-s-hernan-lorenzino-to-be-country-s-next-economy-minister.html
Argentine Finance Secretary Hernan Lorenzino, who helped oversee a $12.9 billion defaulted debt
restructuring last year, will be the country’s next Economy
Minister. Bonds rallied.  Lorenzino, 39, will help determine whether  South America ’s
second-biggest economy returns to international debt markets for
the first time since a record 2001 default on $95 billion of
bonds. He will also be charged with tackling annual inflation
economists estimate is running at 25 percent, the fastest in the
world among major economies after Venezuela.  Argentine dollar bonds rallied on the news. The yield on
the 2015 bond tumbled 48 basis points, or 0.48 percentage point,
to 10.43 percent at 3:24  New York  time, the biggest decline in a
month. The extra yield, or spread, that investors demand to own
Argentine debt over U.S. Treasuries tumbled 61 basis point, the
most among major  emerging markets , according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  “He’s someone who has plenty of experience dealing with
the markets,” said  Carola Sandy , an economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in New York. “This is welcome news.”  Lorenzino, who accompanied President  Cristina Fernandez de
Kirchner  to a summit of G-20 leaders in  France  last month,
replaces Amado Boudou, who becomes vice president when Fernandez
begins her second term on Dec. 10. He previously worked as
undersecretary of finance for Buenos Aires province, where he
managed the 2005 restructuring of $3.1 billion in defaulted
provincial bonds. In 2008 he was named Argentina’s financial
representative in  Washington .  ‘Great News’  Fernandez’s decision “is great news,” said Alberto
Bernal, the head of fixed-income investments at Bulltick Capital
Markets in Miami. Lorenzino was “the best choice among the bulk
of the candidates.”  Mercedes Marco del Pont, who has led the central bank since
February 2010, will remain in her post, presidential spokesman
Alfredo Scoccimarro told reporters in Buenos Aires today. Juan
Manuel Abal Medina will become cabinet chief, replacing Anibal
Fernandez, who was elected senator for  Buenos Aires province ,
while Norberto Yauhar will become agriculture minister.  Lorenzino, who studied law at the University de  La Plata ,
will have to manage one of the region’s fastest-growing
economies, accompanied by an inflation rate economists calculate
is more than double the 9.7 percent reported by the government.
In its budget, the government forecasts economic growth will
slow to 5.1 percent next year from about 8.3 percent in 2011.  Fly Fisherman  The new minister will also have to tackle accelerating
capital flight fueled by investor concern that Fernandez would
devalue the peso to boost competitiveness. Capital flight in the
third quarter reached $8.4 billion, the most in a decade. The
outflows caused  central bank reserves  to fall to $46 billion in
November from a record $52.6 billion in January.  Following her landslide election on Oct. 23, Fernandez
sought to stem capital losses by ordering oil, gas and mining
companies to repatriate all export revenue and telling insurance
companies to bring foreign investments back into the country.
She also instituted stricter controls over the foreign exchange
market.  “The minister will have to face a lot of mistakes from the
past that he will have to solve going forward, like inflation,”
said Aldo Abram, director of Exante Consultora, a Buenos Aires-
based research company. “It’s starting to hurt people’s
purchasing power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  