-- 
Stocks in U.S. Rise on Europe Debt Optimism; French, Spanish Bonds Retreat

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 
2011-12-06T21:17:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/asia-stocks-drop-on-europe-concern.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a three-week high, and the euro
erased losses amid optimism European leaders are planning larger
efforts to fight the debt crisis. Treasuries fell.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  climbed 0.1 percent to close at 1,258.47 at 4
p.m. in  New York  after drifting between gains and losses for
most of the day. French, Spanish and Austrian bonds fell after
S&P said it may cut credit ratings on 15 euro nations and the
European bailout fund. The euro was little changed at $1.34
after slumping as much as 0.5 percent. Cotton, silver and hogs
rose more than 1 percent to lead the S&P GSCI Index of materials
up 0.3 percent.  Stocks and the euro turned higher as the Financial Times
reported that officials are negotiating a bigger rescue effort
to present at this week’s European Union summit, including
running two separate bailout funds simultaneously. European
equity and bond markets closed before the report. Bloomberg News
reported discussions about the combination of the temporary and
permanent rescue funds on Oct. 20.  "The markets are looking for any signs of relief out of
Europe," Keith Wirtz , who oversees $15.1 billion as chief
investment officer at Fifth Third Asset Management in
Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview.  "Given how much the
markets are geared right now, any positive headlines will likely
give investors a Christmas rally to end the year. Make no
mistake, today’s rally in stocks on the FT headline reflect the
gearing of the markets."  Market Leaders  Raw-material producers, health-care and telephone companies
led gains among seven of the 10 main industries in the  S&P 500 .
General Electric Co., Pfizer Inc., Chevron Corp. and 3M Co. rose
at least 1.5 percent to lead the Dow Jones Industrial Average up
52.3 points, or 0.4 percent, to 12,150.13. The Dow extended its
2011 advance to 5 percent and the S&P 500 ended the session with
a gain of less than 0.1 percent for the year.   3M (MMM)  rose after saying revenue may increase as much as 6
percent next year amid a boost from acquisitions, while GE
climbed as Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. raised its recommendation
on the shares. Darden Restaurants Inc., operator of the Red
Lobster chain, tumbled 12 percent after cutting its full-year
sales and profit growth forecasts.  The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note climbed four
basis points to 2.08 percent, near the highest level since
October. The dollar weakened against nine of 16 major peers.  U.S. equities fluctuated earlier as S&P said the European
Financial Stability Facility, the region’s temporary bailout
fund, may lose its top rating if any of the fund’s six
guarantors are downgraded from AAA.  Germany ,  France , the
Netherlands, Finland,  Austria  and Luxembourg are the top-rated
nations backing the rescue fund.  Ratings Warnings  S&P said yesterday it may reduce the credit ratings of the
six nations, and other euro members, depending on the results of
the EU leaders’summit on Dec. 9.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that S&P’s
downgrade warning yesterday will help force Europe to ratchet up
efforts to resolve the two-year old fiscal crisis. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will probably cut the
benchmark  interest rate  a quarter point to buoy the economy when
policy makers meet Dec. 8, according to 58 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  ‘Vicious Circle’  “These debt crises have become a vicious circle where
people lose confidence because there’s too much debt. That
drives up borrowing costs or yields, that makes it harder to
service the debt, that decreases confidence,”  Neel Kashkari ,
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s head of global equities,
said today in an interview on “InBusiness With Margaret
Brennan” on Bloomberg Television. “The world is waiting for
 Europe  to come out with a definitive solution to end that
vicious cycle.”  The yield on France’s 10-year bond jumped 11 basis points
to 3.24 percent, with similar-maturity Spanish and Austrian debt
increasing at least six points. Rates on debt issued by the
bailout fund maturing in July 2016 increased eight points to
2.42 percent after dropping for six straight days.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold the
French securities instead of bunds, Europe’s benchmark
government securities, increased 12 basis points to 105 points.
The Portuguese-German spread narrowed 15 basis points, while the
yield on Ireland’s October 2020 security fell 18 basis points.  The cost of insuring against default on European sovereign
debt rose for the first time in seven days, with the Markit
iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 15
governments climbing four basis points to 324.  The Swiss franc weakened versus all 16 major peers,
declining 0.6 percent against the euro and the dollar, after a
report showed that consumer prices in the nation fell the most
in more than two years last month, led by lower costs for
imports, adding pressure on the  Swiss National Bank  to raise its
franc ceiling to protect the economy.  Lower Rates  Australia ’s dollar dropped 0.3 percent against the U.S.
currency after the nation’s central bank reduced its benchmark
interest rate for a second straight month as Europe’s debt
crisis threatens to slow exports.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  closed down 0.3 percent after
dropping of as much as 0.8 percent. RWE AG, Germany’s second-
largest utility, tumbled 7.2 percent after announcing a share
sale to raise about 2.1 billion euros ($2.8 billion). Yara
International ASA gained 7.2 percent as the maker of nitrogen
fertilizer affirmed its policy of returning cash to
shareholders.  Micex, Ruble Tumble  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 1.2 percent, snapping
a six-day, 10 percent rally. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises
Index slid 1.5 percent after  Fitch Ratings  said a Chinese
property-price correction will  lead (INDU)  to worsening loan portfolios
while Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its estimate for China’s economic
growth next year to 7.9 percent from 8.6 percent.  The Micex Index tumbled almost 4 percent and the ruble
weakened against all 16 major peers as Interior Ministry troops
patrolled Moscow amid anti-government protests. U.S. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton , at a gathering of the Organization for
Security Cooperation in Europe today, called for an
investigation into allegations of electoral fraud in Russian
elections last weekend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  