-- 
Asia’s Generic Drugs Boom Swells Cargo Sales for Lufthansa, UPS: Freight

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-12-06T12:53:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/asia-s-generics-boom-swells-cargo-sales-at-lufthansa-freight.html
When the patent on  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
Lipitor expired last week, Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.’s generic
version was the first to hit U.S. drugstores, some 7,000 miles
away from the northern Indian factory where the production
process started.  Providing transport for Asia’s burgeoning generic-drug
industry is an investment priority for  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  and
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  The pharmaceutical logistics segment
will grow 12 percent this year to 47 billion euros ($63 billion)
as more drugs are made in Asia and other developing markets,
according to research firm Transport Intelligence Ltd.  “Just about every airline is looking at this space with
interest right now,” Dan Gagnon, UPS’s European health-care
logistics director, said in an interview. “As more competition
gets into this space, you need to come up with solutions that
are more economical but provide the same level of service.”  UPS, which provides freight service for German drugmaker
 Merck KGaA , has invested in five new pharmaceuticals facilities
in the past year and last week purchased drugs logistics company
Pieffe Group in  Italy . Lufthansa opened a cold cargo facility in
Frankfurt today to add to a pharmaceutical hub in Hyderabad,
 India , which started operations in May.  Pharmaceutical logistics growth will average 7.6 percent in
the coming years, reaching 63 billion euros by 2015, according
to a report last week by Transport Intelligence analyst Cathy Roberson. Biotech and pharmaceutical products represent the
highest value per airlifted pound for any cargo, she said.  Topping Electronics  The 12 percent growth predicted for pharmaceutical air
freight over the next five years outstrips the 4 percent
anticipated in electronics cargo, which has traditionally been
the strongest sector for air freight demand, Roberson said.  “The growth will be driven by  emerging markets ,” in
particular India,  China  and  Brazil , Roberson said in the report.
“Continued outsourcing to these locations, along with changes
in government legislation, will drive increases in logistics
spending.”  Lufthansa ’s cargo unit, whose customers include Ranbaxy, is
planning to dedicate six McDonnell Douglas MD-11s by 2015 to
handle pharmaceuticals as the five Boeing Co. 777s the airline
will start receiving at the end of 2013 free up capacity. “Far
more” than 12 percent of Lufthansa’s annual growth in India is
coming from drug transports, said Karl Ulrich Garnadt, who heads
the cargo unit.  High-Value Cargo  “It has been our most successful product in the past few
years,” Andreas Otto, Lufthansa Cargo’s head of sales and
marketing, told journalists in Frankfurt today, adding that the
cool segment now accounts for a little less than 10 percent of
the unit’s revenue. “The value carried in one container can
easily reach more than $30 million.”  UPS, aiming to exceed the market forecasts for
pharmaceutical air cargo growth of up to 12 percent, is
currently tying up deals to improve its Asian facilities, Gagnon
said. He expects an announcement in “about a month.”  “Infrastructure for us in India has been quite limited,”
Gagnon said. “For our strategic initiatives, that is an area in
which we will be investing.” UPS already has a cold cargo
facility in  Singapore .  India’s pharmaceutical exports are expected to grow
23 percent annually to 2015 as the quantity of generic drugs
produced in the country increases, according to a joint study
by the Organization of Pharmaceutical Producers of India and
 Deutsche Post AG  released in September.  FDA in India  With more than 100 plants, India is home to more U.S. Food
and Drug Administration-approved pharmaceutical manufacturing
facilities than anywhere else outside the U.S. The FDA has had
offices in  New Delhi  since 2008 and Mumbai since 2009 to enable
better regulation of drugs produced in India.  While not all drugs require a controlled temperature
environment to maintain their efficacy, vaccines, some medical
devices, diagnostic kits and so-called biological medicines --
which are made from a living organism as opposed to chemical
processes -- often do.  Seventy percent of drugs expected to dominate the market
over the next four years fall into this biological bracket, and
will therefore require more stringent temperature control
measures in their transport, said Savvas Neophytou, a London-
based Panmure Gordon health care analyst.  CSafe LLC, based in Dayton,  Ohio , leases its 200
temperature-controlled containers to UPS, Deutsche Post’s DHL
unit and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  The company plans to build another 100
containers in 2012, according to its president.  Temperature Control  “Our product is really designed for that strict two to
eight degrees centigrade,” Brian Kohr, CSafe’s chief, said in a
telephone interview. “It could be going from a really hot
ambient to a very cold ambient or vice versa and it has to
maintain the temperature.”  Also contributing to growth are drug companies’ efforts to
consolidate their number of production sites, said  Jack Scannell , a Sanford Bernstein analyst.  “The upshot of that is that you end up shipping as you
have less local production,” Scannell, who is based in  London ,
said by telephone. “There has been a long gradual process over
the past ten years to try to rationalize pharmaceutical
manufacturing.”  ‘Vast Untapped Market’  Health-care companies’ predilection for carrying out many
of their logistics needs in-house also presents a “vast
untapped market” for external carriers, Transport Intelligence
analyst Joel Ray said by telephone.  “For us the biggest opportunity and competition is in-
sourced supply chains,” UPS’s Gagnon added. “Health care is
behind when it comes to outsourcing, and if we break down the
market, that’s where most of our opportunities come from.”  An added perk is that pharmaceutical demand is unlikely to
be harmed by an economic slump, Joerg Bodenroeder, who manages
Lufthansa’s new cool center in  Frankfurt , told journalists
today.  “We saw in 2009 that the need for medical products and
pharmaceuticals is also stable in crises,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 