-- 
Asian Currencies Fall, Led by Peso, as S&P Warns Europe on Debt

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-12-06T09:14:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/asian-currencies-weaken-after-s-p-warns-europe-of-possible-downgrades.html
Asian currencies dropped, led by the
Philippine peso and  Thai baht , after  Standard & Poor’s  warned
that the credit ratings of 15 euro-area nations may be cut,
adding to concern global economic growth will slow.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares snapped a six-day
rally after S&P put countries including Germany and France on
review for possible downgrade, saying a decision may be made
following a summit of European Union leaders on Dec. 9. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicolas Sarkozy
are pushing for a rewrite of the EU’s governing rules to tighten
economic cooperation.  “The comments from S&P are making people risk-averse and
boosting dollar demand,” said Disawat Tiaowvanich, a foreign-
exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl. “The main driver of the
market is developments in  Europe .”  The peso declined 0.4 percent to 43.46 per dollar as of as
of 16:59 p.m. in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
baht dropped 0.3 percent from Dec. 2 to 30.87 per dollar as it
resumed trading after a public holiday yesterday, while
 Indonesia ’s rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 9,070. Malaysia’s ringgit
weakened 0.1 percent to 3.1350.  South Korea’s economy may slow due to signs of global
weakness and a decline in international trade, the nation’s
Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said at a ministerial meeting in
 Seoul  today. Bank of Thailand Director Singhachai Boonyayotin
said Dec. 2 the baht’s strength may prove short-lived because of
uncertainties in the global economy.  ‘Increasingly Concerned’  China’s yuan tested the weaker end of its permitted trading
range for a fifth day on concern economic growth in Asia’s
largest economy is faltering. The People’s Bank of China set its
daily  reference rate  little changed at 6.3334 per dollar, almost
0.5 percent stronger than the currency’s close yesterday.  “The market is increasingly concerned about the state of
 China ’s property and export sectors as the euro-zone debt crisis
deepens,” said  Steve Wang , the Hong Kong-based head of fixed-
income research at Bank of China International, a unit of
China’s third-biggest lender by market value.  The yuan was little changed at 6.3642 per dollar at the
close in Shanghai, after dropping 0.02 percent earlier. The
currency is allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent either side of
the fixing. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.12
percent to 6.3870 per dollar, a 0.3 percent discount to the
onshore spot rate.  Taiwan ’s dollar dropped for a third day after the central
bank said yesterday foreign-exchange reserves fell to the lowest
level in 10 months. A finance ministry report on Dec. 8 will
show export growth slowed to 8.6 percent in November from a year
earlier, compared with 11.7 percent the previous month,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. International  reserves  fell $5 billion last month to
$388 billion.  ‘Outward Remittances’  “Taiwan’s foreign-exchange reserves dropped, so that means
outward remittances from Taiwan are bigger,” said Tarsicio Tong, a trader at Union Bank of Taiwan in Taipei. “Exporters
who want to sell U.S. dollars will want a higher price.”  Taiwan’s dollar declined 0.1 percent to NT$30.225 against
its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  The won declined 0.1 percent to 1,131.35 per dollar.  South
Korea ’s economy expanded 0.8 percent in the three months through
September from the second quarter, compared with an October
estimate for a 0.7 percent gain, the Bank of Korea said in Seoul
today.  Philippine inflation slowed to 4.8 percent in November
after a 5.2 percent gain in October, government data showed
today, prompting the central bank to signal it has scope to
lower  interest rates .  Elsewhere, Singapore’s dollar weakened 0.3 percent to
S$1.2854 against its U.S. counterpart and Vietnam’s dong was
little changed at 21,011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  