-- 
Asia Surviving Europe ‘Stress Test’ Boosts Case for Debt-Rating Upgrades

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-12-07T06:15:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/asia-surviving-europe-stress-test-boosts-case-for-debt-rating-upgrades.html
Asian economies are withstanding
 Europe ’s debt crisis so well that some investors are positioning
for credit-rating upgrades in the region.  Five-year credit-default swaps for China, South Korea,
Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines and  Thailand  climbed an
average 65 basis points to 163 this year, while contracts for 17
eurozone countries, excluding Greece, jumped 122 to 305. Moody’s
Investors Service is watching the trading in the swaps, which
protect against non-payment, and how  Asia  copes with capital
flows as it weighs rating changes, said Thomas Byrne, a senior
vice president at Moody’s in  Singapore .  Asia’s 10 biggest economies excluding  Japan  grew an average
of 5.2 percent in the third quarter, triple the euro-zone’s 1.4
percent rate, and their central banks hold $5.2 trillion in
currency reserves, more than half the global total of $10.2
trillion. Threadneedle Asset Management and Manulife Asset
Management say they favor Indonesian notes, ranked Ba1 by
Moody’s, one level below investment grade, while Aviva Investors
says the  Philippines , rated Ba2, is most likely to win an
upgrade.  “If there’s continued good policy performance,
macroeconomic stability in these countries and they weather this
distress coming from the euro zone, in general that would be a
credit-positive development,” Byrne said in an interview last
month. “Whether there’s an accumulation of credit-positive
developments that will lead to a credit-rating upgrade, we’ll be
looking closely over the next months.”  Managing Successfully  Default swaps on Philippine bonds became cheaper than AAA-
rated  France  last month, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately
negotiated markets. It costs 183 basis points to protect
Philippine bonds, less than the 187 basis points for France.
Contracts for  China , Malaysia and Thailand are lower at 131, 132
and 178 respectively, all more than half  Italy ’s 438. The swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Moody’s has upgraded China once to Aa3 in the aftermath of
the 2008 global financial crisis, the fourth-highest rating, and
has raised Indonesia and the Philippines twice.  Standard &
Poor’s  said on Dec. 5 that Germany and France may be stripped of
their AAA ratings as the debt crisis prompts 15 euro nations to
be put on review for possible downgrade. The firm also said that
it may cut Italy’s A rating, the sixth highest.  “Further rating upgrades will reward those emerging
countries that manage this new stress test successfully, as they
did just a couple of years back,” said Agnes Belaisch, who
helps manage $2.5 billion in emerging-market debt at
Threadneedle Asset Management in  London .  Strong Fundamentals  Indonesia , Southeast Asia’s largest economy, grew more than
6 percent for a fourth straight quarter in the three months to
September as  consumer spending  and government investment
outweighed faltering global demand. Indonesia sold seven-year
dollar sukuk, or bonds that comply with Islam’s ban on interest,
at a yield of 4 percent on Nov. 14, two percentage points less
than the rate for five-year debt achieved by Italy. The  10-year
yield  on rupiah government non-Islamic bonds has fallen 158
basis points, or 1.58 percentage point, from a three-month high
of 7.65 percent on Sept. 22.  “Indonesia’s economic fundamentals continue to be
strong,” said Endre Pedersen, the Hong Kong-based managing
director of fixed income at Manulife which has an Asian bond
portfolio valued at $29 billion. “You might actually see upward
momentum on the rating side.”  Yield Premiums  Asia’s developing economies will expand 8.2 percent in 2011
and 8 percent in 2012, according to estimates released in
September by the  International Monetary Fund . That compares with
projections for the euro area of 1.6 percent this year and 1.1
percent next.  Investors demand an extra 230 basis points in yield over
U.S. Treasuries to own the Philippines’ 7.5 percent dollar bonds
due in September 2024, according to prices from the Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc. That compares with a spread of 543 basis
points for Italy’s 6.875 percent dollar notes due in September
2023, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The euro-zone slowdown could pose risks to Asian ratings
should it lead to further cuts in global growth forecasts,
 Andrew Colquhoun ,  Fitch Ratings ’ head of Asia-Pacific Sovereigns
in  Hong Kong , said in an interview last month. Fitch has
positive outlooks for Indonesia and  South Korea , signaling the
chance of an upgrade over the next 18 months.  Debt Ratios  The pace of upgrades for some Asian countries, such as
Indonesia and Sri Lanka, may be delayed, not “entirely derailed
or reversed,”  Agost Benard , associate director in Singapore for
S&P, which has positive outlooks on Indonesia and Sri Lanka,
said in an interview last month.  “If the economic uncertainties in Europe and the U.S. blow
over and the world goes back to something like a normal growth
trajectory and it turns out that Asian sovereigns didn’t suffer,
certainly that would be another proof of their resiliency,”
said Benard.  The odds of an upgrade in most Asian nations will be
supported by “significantly lower” public-debt ratios than
European governments, said Stewart Newnham, a strategist at
Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong. There’s a “strong case” for
upgrades in Indonesia, China and Philippines, he said.  The ratio of debt to gross domestic product stood at 143
percent for  Greece  at the end of 2010, 119 percent for Italy and
82 percent for France, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Ratios for China, Indonesia, and the Philippines were 16
percent, 26 percent and 52 percent, the data show.  Resilience Intact  “The resilience that was demonstrated in 2009 and 2010 is
largely intact,” said Moody’s Byrne. “Most governments have
the fiscal headroom to enact fiscal stimulus measures if
necessary because government debt levels aren’t onerous. The
credit trends in East Asia are stable to positive.”  Asia’s emerging sovereign debt markets are on course to
acquire “safe-haven” status and may begin to supplant indebted
developed nations, BlackRock Investment Institute wrote in an
October report. The research unit of New York-based BlackRock
Inc., which managed $372.8 billion in the region at the end of
June, said such a status refers to assets that lure “dramatic
capital inflows in times of stress.”  Asian bonds are moving “from a tactical allocation to core
position for global investors,” Neeraj Seth, the head of Asian
credit at BlackRock, said in an interview in Singapore.  Charles Macgregor, a Singapore-based senior vice president
for Asian fixed income at Aviva, which manages the equivalent of
$432 billion globally, said the Philippines is the most likely
to be upgraded in Asia. Remittances sent home by Philippine
citizens abroad climbed 4.1 percent from a year earlier to $14.8
billion in the first nine months of 2011.  “The repatriation of foreign-worker income is a very
steady flow of funds, so that would hold them in good stead in
the next year or two,” said Macgregor, whose current mandate in
Asia is to primarily invest in investment-grade securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  