-- 
Asian Economies Faces ‘Much Greater’ Risks From Global Slowdown, ADB Says

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-12-06T04:23:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/asia-faces-much-greater-global-risks-adb.html
Asian economies are facing “much
greater downside risks” now because of the possibility of a
recession in the U.S. and Europe and the threat of destabilizing
capital flows, the  Asian Development Bank  said.  The biggest challenge for policy makers in emerging East
Asian nations is to safeguard growth against the threat of
another global economic crisis, the Manila-based lender said in
its Asia Economic Monitor report today. Uncertainty over the
world economy means officials in the region must have
“sufficient flexibility” to adjust policies quickly, it said.  “The cautiously optimistic outlook for emerging East Asia
is subject to much greater downside risks now than just a few
months ago,” the ADB said. “The global economic recovery could
flounder if the  euro zone  and the U.S. fall back into recession,
causing another global financial crisis. Large and destabilizing
capital flows could complicate the region’s macroeconomic
management and jeopardize economic growth.”  Asian policy makers have shifted their focus to shielding
growth, rather than stemming inflation, as  Europe ’s debt woes
and a struggling U.S. economy increase the risk of another
global recession.  Australia  lowered borrowing costs for a second
straight month today and Indonesia and Thailand cut  interest
rates  last month, while the  Philippines  in October unveiled a
fiscal stimulus package to spur the economy.  Asia stocks fell for the first time in seven days today
after  Standard & Poor’s  put 15 European nations on watch for
potential ratings downgrades. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
retreated 1.3 percent as of 1:13 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Best Case  Emerging East Asian economies may grow 7.2 percent next
year after expanding 7.5 percent in 2011, according to the
report today. The estimates are lower than the lender’s
September prediction for 7.6 percent growth this year and 7.5
percent in 2012, it said.  The 2012 forecast is the “best case” scenario, Iwan Azis,
head of the office of regional economic integration at the ADB,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong 
today. Recessions in the U.S. and Europe may cut emerging East
Asia’s growth rate to about 5.4 percent in 2012, he said.  “Asian policy makers should shift the pendulum from
controlling inflation to stimulating growth,” Azis said.
Governments can stimulate domestic demand through consumption
and investment to offset weaker exports as the U.S. and European
economies slow, he said.  ‘Risk Aversion’  Asian stocks and currencies have retreated amid concern
that the region’s export-reliant economies will suffer the
impact of diminished global demand as the euro region struggles
to stem its debt crisis. The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell about
16 percent last quarter, the biggest drop since the last three
months of 2008.  Standard & Poor’s said yesterday  Germany  and  France  may be
stripped of their AAA credit ratings as it put 15 euro nations
on review for possible downgrade.  “The lingering eurozone debt crisis could boost risk
aversion among investors, with rapid swings in risk appetite
boosting capital flow volatility beyond the spurts and stops
seen in the third quarter this year,” the ADB said.
“Consequently, exchange rate volatility would follow from large
but fickle capital movements.”  Asian central banks may undertake more foreign-exchange
intervention if the debt crisis in Europe continues to worsen,
as their currencies weaken because of capital outflows, Azis
told reporters in Hong Kong today.  Not Immune  Emerging  East Asia  won’t be immune to a “major” slowdown
in advanced economies, which would hurt the region’s economic
growth and pose “significant” policy challenges, the ADB said.  “With the euro zone’s sovereign debt crisis unfolding and
risks of faltering global recovery rising, macroeconomic policy
must remain cautious and prudent,” it said. “Should the euro
zone fall into a full-blown financial and economic crisis,
emerging East Asian economies must respond promptly, decisively,
and collectively.”  The ADB cut its 2012 growth estimate for China, the
region’s largest economy, to 8.8 percent from a 9.1 percent
forecast in September as external demand weakens and
“government efforts to cool the economy and achieve a soft
landing bear fruit,” it said.  The People’s Bank of  China  reduced lenders’ reserve
requirements on Nov. 30 for the first time since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  