-- 
Massachusetts Pension Drops BNY Mellon

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-12-06T18:42:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/massachusetts-pension-drops-bny-mellon.html
Massachusetts , which has accused  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  of overcharging its public pension
funds on small foreign-exchange transactions, hired Russell
Implementation Services to handle those trades.  BNY Mellon and Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT)  both
competed to win the contract, according to the Pension Reserves
Investment Management Board, which runs $48.1 billion in assets.
Russell is a unit of Seattle-based Russell Investments.  Russell offered “substantially” lower prices to execute
the trades than the two banks, Jon Carlisle, a spokesman for
Massachusetts Treasurer Steven Grossman, said today in a
telephone interview. New York-based BNY Mellon remains the
custodian for the pension fund, he said.  Secretary of the Commonwealth  William Galvin  in October
accused BNY Mellon of using “a hidden scheme” to maximize
profits in foreign-exchange transactions at the cost of
pensioners. The bank is facing lawsuits from  Virginia ,  New York 
and  Florida  over the same issue. State Street has been sued by
California and  Arkansas .  Both banks have rejected the allegations and said they will
defend themselves.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for BNY Mellon, said the bank was
“disappointed” to hear of Massachusetts’ decision.  “We are confident we provide all of our institutional
clients and their investment managers with highly competitive
foreign-exchange services,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Standing Instruction  The contract was reported earlier today by the Boston
Globe.  All the cases center on the pricing of small foreign-
exchange transactions handled automatically by the banks on
behalf of pension funds, a service known as standing
instruction.  The banks have said they acted as a principal, selling one
currency for another in arms-length transactions at a set price
that customers were free to accept or reject. The plaintiffs
have claimed the banks were obliged to act as an agent,
obtaining for them the best possible  exchange rate , and misled
clients on how they set prices.  The Massachusetts pension fund has been pushing its money
managers to handle more of their foreign-exchange trading
through competitive bidding or negotiated trades with lower
prices. Massachusetts reduced its share of trades done through
standing instruction to 16 percent in the third quarter from 33
percent in the prior three months, according to documents
released today by the state pension board.  4 Basis Points  Some smaller transactions, and trades in many emerging-
market currencies, can’t be negotiated, according to the
documents.  Russell offered to execute trades for about 4 basis points,
compared with current rates of 35 to 42 basis points, the
pension documents state. A basis point is one-hundredth of a
percent. Russell, which doesn’t yet have the ability to trade
certain emerging-market currencies, plans to increase its
capacity.  BNY Mellon  is offering some customers a new pricing model
on foreign exchange. The Employees Retirement System of  Texas 
last month said the bank is now willing to price trades at
specific times, rather than pick a rate that’s favorable for the
bank at the end of the day.  The firm reported $221 million in foreign-exchange revenue
in the third quarter, about 6 percent of its total. Trades done
by standing instruction account for about 2.5 percent of
revenue, the bank said.  In an Oct. 19 conference call, Chief Executive Officer
Gerald Hassell said that over the past two years the bank had
seen an increase in the volume of standing instruction trades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  