-- 
AT&T, Sprint Propose Antitrust Trial After Government’s Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-12-06T17:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/at-t-sprint-propose-antitrust-trial-after-government-s-case.html
AT&T Inc. and Sprint Nextel Corp.
agreed their dispute over AT&T’s planned purchase of  T-Mobile
USA Inc. (DTE)  should be tried after the government’s case opposing
the deal while they clashed on the proposed schedule.  AT&T and Sprint, in separate filings today in U.S. District
Court in Washington, said their aim is to avoid interfering with
trial of the U.S. Justice Department’s lawsuit scheduled for
Feb. 13.  Sprint and Cellular South Inc., which also sued to block
the $39 billion T-Mobile acquisition, proposed that Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle set a trial date “immediately” after all the
evidence is presented in the U.S. case “so that they can be
heard prior to the closing of the transaction.”  AT&T argued that no trial date should be set until Huvelle
hands down a verdict in the  Justice Department  case. The
lawsuits involve different claims and will require different
evidence, the company said.  “The schedule for this litigation need not depend on the
timing for the closing of this transaction,” AT&T’s lawyer,
James Wade of Haynes & Boone LLP in Washington, wrote. Wade
argued that Huvelle has authority to order the merged company to
change its behavior after the deal has closed if she finds
antitrust violations.  A hearing in all three antitrust cases is scheduled for
Dec. 9.  Reduce Competition  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and T-Mobile
Aug. 31, saying a combination of the two companies would
“substantially” reduce competition. Seven states and  Puerto
Rico  joined the effort to block the deal, which would make AT&T
the biggest U.S. wireless carrier.  Sprint, the third-biggest U.S. wireless carrier, filed its
antitrust lawsuit on Sept. 6, saying the proposed merger would
weaken its ability to compete with AT&T, the second-biggest, and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the market leader.  Cellular South, based in Ridgeland,  Mississippi , sued on
Sept. 19, claiming the merger threatened to “substantially”
cut competition.  Huvelle last month dismissed several claims in the Sprint
and Cellular South lawsuits. She limited the cases to Sprint’s
allegations regarding access to mobile devices and Cellular
South’s complaints involving roaming fees as well as devices.  The government’s case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc., (T)  1:11-cv-01560;
Sprint’s case is Sprint Nextel Corp. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01600;
and Cellular South’s case is Cellular South Inc. v. AT&T Inc.,
1:11-cv-01690, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net :
Sara Forden in  Washington 
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 