-- 
Atlantia Expects Business to Expand in 2012 Amid Crisis, Castellucci Says

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-12-06T11:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/atlantia-expects-business-to-expand-in-2012-amid-crisis-castellucci-says.html
Atlantia SpA (ATL) , Italy’s biggest toll-
road operator, expects 2012 growth as it bids for highway
projects in  Turkey  with partners, said Chief Executive Officer
Giovanni Castellucci.  The company forecasts an increase in earnings before
interest, taxes and one-time items of 4 percent above the rate
of traffic growth per year “in the medium term” and will
maintain its dividend policy, Castellucci said in a phone
interview from  Rome .  Atlantia, which is controlled by the Benetton family, has
been expanding outside its home market and modernizing the
Italian toll-road network to boost revenue and profit. The
company manages the main highway linking Milan with Naples, as
well as the Italian side of the Mont Blanc tunnel under the
Alps.  Even with weak traffic figures for 2012, “earnings still
will show sound growth,” Roberto Mascarello, an analyst at
Kepler, wrote in a note to clients Dec. 1. “We reiterate our
view that Atlantia’s financial position is credit-crunch
proof.” He has a “buy’ rating on the stock.  The Italian company isn’t delaying a 20-billion euro ($27
billion) investment plan, mainly in  Italy , because of the
European debt crisis, the CEO said. A Singapore sovereign wealth
fund invested about 250 million euros in the Italian company a
few weeks ago, he said.  Breakup Risk  “This shows that the perception of a euro breakup risk is
too exaggerated,” Castellucci said.  The company has no financing needs until 2014 because
“we’re sitting on 1 billion euros of cash” and it has another
3 billion euros in committed credit lines, Castellucci said
earlier today in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
Atlantia has 2.75 billion euros of debt maturing in 2014,
according to Bloomberg data.  Castelucci also confirmed a previous forecast that 2011
operating profit will be higher than 2010.  The Italian company will “very likely” bid in an auction
for operating rights for roads and bridges in Turkey with  Akfen
Holding AS (AKFEN) , Dogus Holding AS and Makyol Insaat Sanayi Turizm &
Ticaret AS, Castellucci said.  Atlantia has shelved a planned initial public offer for its
Chilean unit, Autopistas do Pacifico SA, and is evaluating a
private sale to investors such as pension funds, Castellucci
said without elaborating.  The shares were down 0.8 percent to 11.94 euros at 12:47
p.m. in Milan, giving the company a market value of 7.5 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  