-- 
RBA Lowers Key Rate to 4.25% in First Consecutive Cut Since February 2009

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-12-06T04:46:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/australia-central-bank-lowers-key-rate-to-4-25-.html
Australia ’s central bank reduced its
benchmark interest rate today for a second straight month as
Europe’s fiscal crisis threatens to slow the nation’s commodity
exports, sending its currency lower.  Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board cut the
overnight cash-rate target by a quarter percentage point to 4.25
percent, saying in a statement that “financing conditions have
become much more difficult, especially in Europe.”  “This, together with precautionary behavior by firms and
households, means that the likelihood of a further material
slowing in global growth has increased,” Stevens said in the
statement.  The cut marked the RBA’s first consecutive easing since the
depths of the world financial crisis in 2009 and reflected a
worsening global outlook that’s weighing on an engine of
Australia’s economy: exports. The local housing industry has
slumped, with mortgage-loan growth falling to a record low, and
subdued household spending containing inflation.  “It’s a reasonably dovish statement consistent with
another cut in the first quarter,” said  Michael Turner , an
economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney, citing the
RBA’s comments on the risks to global growth and Asian trade
from Europe’s debt problems. “There’s maybe a tiny bit of
concern that the credit-market stress is starting to flow into
the real economy.”  Currency Falls  The Australian dollar weakened to $1.0195 at 3:21 p.m. from
$1.0234 before the decision as investors increased bets on
further reductions in borrowing costs. Interest-rate swaps
pegged to RBA policy meeting dates show traders expect Stevens
to ease by a further 100 basis points by May, according to
prices from  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   Treasurer  Wayne Swan , speaking at a news conference, urged
the nation’s lenders to pass on the rate cut in full.
Australia’s four largest banks --  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) , Westpac,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  -- said they are reviewing their
 interest rates  after the RBA’s announcement.  “Short-term market interest rates have tended to decline a
little further in recent weeks, though term funding conditions
for financial institutions have become more difficult,” Stevens
said today. “Credit growth remains subdued and asset prices
have declined further over recent months.”  Germany, France  Germany and France risk losing their AAA credit ratings in
a review of 15 euro nations for possible downgrades,  Standard &
Poor’s  said yesterday as the region struggles to lower budget
deficits with unemployment near 10 percent.  Evidence is growing that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is
weakening growth in Asia’s developing economies, which the
 International Monetary Fund  predicted in September would lead a
global recovery next year.  China  is Australia’s biggest trading partner and its demand
for iron ore, coal and energy drove the nation’s terms of trade
-- a measure of export prices relative to import prices -- to a
record this year.  “China’s growth has been slowing,” Stevens said today.
“Trade in Asia is now, however, seeing some effects of a
significant slowing in economic activity in Europe.”  Separate reports last week showed manufacturing slumped in
China and the euro region to the weakest levels in more than two
years. A Nov. 30 government report showed  India’s economy  grew
6.9 percent in the three months through September, the weakest
expansion since the second quarter of 2009.  Mining Boom  Australia’s overseas shipments and a A$456 billion ($465
billion) pipeline of resource projects helped spur the local
currency to $1.1081 on July 27, the highest level since it was
freely floated in 1983.  Europe’s troubles have weighed on the so-called Aussie in
recent months. The world’s fifth most-traded currency has fallen
8 percent since its peak on concern Greece would default and
trigger a repeat of the 2008 credit freeze after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  In Australia, data last week showed home-building approvals
plunged in October for a second straight month and retail sales
growth slowed. The number of permits granted to build or
renovate houses and apartments fell 10.7 percent from September,
when they dropped a revised 14.2 percent, the Dec. 1 report
showed. Retail sales in October gained 0.2 percent, half the
increase economists estimated.  Retailers applauded Stevens’s decision today, saying it
will help holiday sales later this month.  “A second cash rate fall was first on retailer’s list of
requests in their letter to Santa this year,” Australian
National Retailers Association Chief Executive Officer Margy Osmond said in a statement.  Even after today’s reduction, Australia’s benchmark
borrowing cost is among the highest in the developed world.
Central bank policy rates in Japan and the U.S. are near zero,
the U.K.’s is 0.5 percent, Canada’s is 1 percent, the euro
zone’s is 1.25 percent and  New Zealand ’s is 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  