-- 
Australia Rate Cut Reflects Lack of Confidence in Europe Measures: Economy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-12-06T05:51:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/australia-interest-rate-cut-shows-europe-s-steps-are-insufficient-economy.html
Australia executed its first back-to-
back interest-rate cut since 2009 and the Asian Development Bank
cited escalating risks to its growth outlook, signaling lack of
confidence in the region that  Europe ’s leaders have done enough
to stem the sovereign-debt crisis.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered
the  overnight cash-rate target  by a quarter percentage point, to
4.25 percent, confounding the forecasts of 12 of 25 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Philippine and Indonesian officials
in the past day have said their central banks are also prepared
to reduce borrowing costs.  “Policy makers want to bring down the cost of borrowing,
and in some countries pump liquidity in the system, to spur
growth to the domestic channel,” said Sailesh K. Jha, head of
Asia markets strategy at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB in
Singapore, and a former ADB official.  Stocks retreated from  Tokyo  to Sydney as investor concern
over Europe deepened in the wake of  Standard & Poor’s  putting 15
European nations on watch for potential sovereign-rating
downgrades. The ADB, the Manila-based development lender, said
there are “much greater downside risks” to economies in East
Asia, casting doubt over its “cautiously optimistic outlook.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of equities fell 1.3 percent at
1:20 p.m. Tokyo time. Asian currencies also dropped as investors
turned to the dollar as a haven, with the Indonesian rupiah
sliding 0.6 percent. The Philippine peso was down 0.4 percent
and  Thailand ’s baht 0.4 percent. The Australian dollar fell
after the rate decision, and is 0.8 percent lower today.  Buying Opportunity  Jha recommended that investors buy Asian currencies such as
the South Korean won, Singapore dollar and rupiah because the
region’s relative economic strength will spur its exchange rates
over a three-to-six month horizon.  A report today may show euro-region gross domestic product
rose 1.4 percent in the third quarter from a year before, down
from 1.6 percent growth in the second quarter and a 2.4 percent
expansion in January to March, the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists shows.  Brazil  may say that its GDP growth also moderated last
quarter, to a 2.4 percent year-on-year pace from 3.1 percent in
April to June. By contrast, growth in  South Korea ,  Asia ’s
fourth-largest economy, accelerated to 3.5 percent in the third
quarter from 3.4 percent the previous period, government figures
showed today.  Easing inflation pressures across the Asia-Pacific region
have given central banks more scope to consider monetary
stimulus.  Philippine Rates  Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a
text message that “as the favorable inflation outlook provides
us flexibility, we are open to possible easing early next year,
especially if our own growth prospects continue to be subdued.”
The nation earlier today reported that consumer prices increased
4.8 percent from a year earlier, after a 5.2 percent gain in
October, according to the gauge that uses 2006 as a base year.  Bank  Indonesia  will weigh the impact of any further rate
cut on capital outflows when it sets borrowing costs this week,
Perry Warjiyo, its director of economic research and monetary
policy, said yesterday. “If we look at it from the point of
view of slowing inflation, of course there’s still room to cut
 interest rates  further,” he told reporters in Jakarta.  In  Australia , Stevens said in today’s statement that
inflation is likely to be consistent with the central bank’s
target in 2012 and 2013. He also said that “financing
conditions have become much more difficult, especially in
Europe.”  ADB Forecasts Cut  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan, speaking at a news
conference, urged the nation’s lenders to pass on the rate cut
in full. Australia’s four largest banks --  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , Westpac, National Australia Bank Ltd. and Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. -- said they are reviewing their
interest rates after the RBA’s announcement.  Emerging East Asian economies may grow 7.2 percent next
year after expanding 7.5 percent in 2011, the  Asian Development
Bank  said in a report today. The estimates are lower than the
lender’s September prediction for 7.6 percent growth this year
and 7.5 percent in 2012, it said.  The 2012 forecast is the “best case” scenario, Iwan Azis,
head of the office of regional economic integration at the ADB,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong 
today. Recessions in the U.S. and Europe may cut emerging East
Asia’s growth rate to about 5.4 percent in 2012, he said.  EU Summit  “With the euro zone’s sovereign debt crisis unfolding and
risks of faltering global recovery rising, macroeconomic policy
must remain cautious and prudent,” the ADB said. “The
lingering eurozone debt crisis could boost  risk aversion  among
investors, with rapid swings in risk appetite boosting capital
flow volatility beyond the spurts and stops seen in the third
quarter this year.”  European Union leaders will hold a summit in Brussels on
Dec. 9 as they take another run at fixing the debt crisis after
the failure of their fourth rescue blueprint sparked intensified
concern the 17-nation euro area was on the brink of unraveling.  “There’ll be huge concerns about whether Europe’s bailout
plan is going to avoid going into recession,” Andrew Sullivan,
a principal sales trader at Piper Jaffray Asia Securities Ltd.
in Hong Kong, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
today. “Asia, which is quite well positioned at the moment,
just wants to try and keep the momentum going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  