-- 
Australia, New Zealand Say No Kyoto Extension Without Larger Climate Deal

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-12-07T09:40:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/australia-joins-new-zealand-seeking-pollution-curbs-beyond-kyoto-countries.html
Australia  and  New Zealand , which
sponsor the most developed carbon markets outside  Europe , say
they won’t agree to remain part of the Kyoto treaty unless
other countries bolster efforts to curb emissions.  Australia will only sign up for further cuts under Kyoto
through 2020 if all big emitting countries agree to legally
binding actions, Climate Change Minister Greg Combet said in an
interview in Durban, South Africa. New Zealand says it won’t
join unless it has stronger assurance that voluntary pledges
will be met by large polluters such as China.  “We need to be able to go back to our own people, whether
we live in  France  or New Zealand, and say we aren’t the only
people doing something,” said Tim Groser, New Zealand’s chief
envoy at United Nations climate talks in Durban,  South Africa .
“You will not carry public opinion if the debate is ‘you are
the only idiots doing anything.’”  The comments show the strength of resistance among
industrial nations to extending the Kyoto treaty, which China
and India say is essential for the talks in Durban to succeed.
The U.S. never ratified the pact, and  Japan ,  Russia  and Canada
already ruled out more commitments under the treaty.  The U.S. and European Union say that Kyoto may only cover
15 percent of world emissions if it’s extended because China and
India have become two of the top three polluters since the pact
was negotiated in 1997. Developing nations have no restrictions
under Kyoto.  ‘Small Proportion’  “It’s a relatively small proportion of global greenhouse
gases,” Combet said. Any agreement reached for further
emissions reductions must be “environmentally effective.”  The EU says it will extend Kyoto only if all major emitters
agree to forge a new legally binding treaty that includes all
countries by 2015.  China  said it would only consider adopting
mandatory cuts if certain conditions were met.  Brazil  said it’s
reluctant to make a legally binding promise on the issue in
Durban.  “There’s not going to be a wider agreement reached in
Durban,” Combet said. Still, progress needs to be made in
strengthening a political climate agreement countries agreed to
last year at UN talks in Cancun, Mexico, he said.  A new negotiating text was published today that covers all
nations. It runs to 138 pages and includes numerous alternative
options for emissions-cutting measures. The South African
presidency of the conference is also consulting on a shorter
text detailing four options for an outcome of the talks.  ‘Kyoto Plus’  New Zealand is calling for a “Kyoto plus” deal in which
the U.S., China,  India  and other big greenhouse-gas emitters
give stronger assurances that they will live up to their
voluntary pledges to curb emissions by 2020, Groser, said in an
interview in Durban.  Countries that are considering whether to stay in Kyoto
need such guarantees to politically justify a decision to remain
in the pact, Groser said.  Groser said the EU’s call for a new legally binding deal by
2015 is understandable, though may not be realistic.  “At the end of the day you may be asking too much of
China, India, Brazil and the U.S. to commit unequivocally to
that,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  