-- 
Guterson’s Oedipus Redux Wins Bad Sex in Fiction Prize in U.K.

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y   a n d   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-12-07T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/bad-sex-in-fiction-prize-goes-to-david-guterson-sparing-king-murakami.html
David Guterson won the U.K.’s “most
dreaded literary prize,” the  Bad Sex in Fiction Award , for a
torrid romp between a mother and her son in “Ed King,” a
recasting of the Oedipus myth.  Presented during a ceremony last night at the  Naval &
Military Club  on St. James’s Square, London, the prize was
granted for a 12-hour sequence of what Guterson calls “gyrations
and five-sense choreographies” -- ending with a morning shower
during which she “abused him with a bar of soap.”  “Oedipus practically invented bad sex, so I’m not in the
least bit surprised,” Guterson said in a statement distributed
by Britain’s  Literary Review , which organized the contest. The
author, who lives in the U.S., was unable to attend.  Previously won by Tom Wolfe, Norman Mailer and Jonathan Littell, the Bad Sex in Fiction contest seeks to shame the
author of the year’s “most embarrassing passages of sexual
description in a literary novel.” Inaugurated in 1993 by the
late  Literary Review  editor Auberon Waugh, the prize has instead
encouraged authors to spice up sex scenes to boost sales.  “Without wanting to sound priggish, this prize has
spectacularly backfired,” Waugh’s son, author Alexander Waugh,
told the gathering, held in a room lined with red wallpaper. The
prize could have been won by a “disappointingly large number of
books” this year, he said.  Murakami,  Stephen King   Guterson, who made his name with “Snow Falling on Cedars,”
narrowly defeated competition from Haruki Murakami’s “1Q84,”
Chris Adrian’s “The Great Night” and Lee Child’s “The Affair,”
the judges said.  Pornographic or expressly erotic works are excluded from
the contest. Yet the Literary Review judges always find plenty
to choose from.  Murakami became a finalist for likening a pair of upturned
nipples to “a vine’s new tendrils seeking sunlight.” Child was
cited for a passage that begins, “Then it was time. We started
tenderly. Long and slow, long and slow.”  The shortlist also included James Frey for “The Final
Testament of the Holy Bible” (“His breath felt hot and smelled
sweet”) and Stephen King for “11/22/63” (“It was the sound of
greedy discovery in her voice that put me over the edge”).  The other finalists were “On Canaan’s Side” by Sebastian Barry; “The Land of Painted Caves” by Jean M. Auel; “Dead
Europe” by Christos Tsiolkas; “Everything Beautiful Began After”
by Simon Van Booy; “Parallel Stories” by Peter Nadas; and
“Outside the Ordinary World” by Dori Ostermiller.  Auberon Waugh established the prize to draw attention to
the “crude, tasteless, and often perfunctory use of redundant
passages of sexual description in contemporary novels, and to
discourage it.”  To contact the reporters on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net ;
Hephzibah Anderson in  London  at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 