-- 
Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-12-06T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying the
Bank of  Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight rate
target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in Ottawa.  The  Bank of Canada  today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The  Bank Rate  is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  Uncertainty around the global economic outlook has increased
in the weeks since the Bank released its October Monetary Policy
Report (MPR). Conditions in global financial markets have
deteriorated as the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  has deepened.
Additional measures will be required to contain the European
crisis. The recession in Europe is now expected to be more
pronounced than the Bank had anticipated in October, as a result
of increased deleveraging and tighter financial conditions, as
well as necessary fiscal austerity and structural reforms.  Recent economic data suggest that growth in the  United
States  has been slightly more robust than anticipated, largely as
a result of continued vigour in  consumer spending  and business
investment. Nonetheless, household deleveraging, fiscal
consolidation and negative spillover effects from the European
crisis are all expected to weigh on U.S. growth. Growth in  China 
and other emerging-market economies continues to be strong,
although there are signs that it is moderating to a more
sustainable pace in response to weaker external demand and the
lagged effects of past policy tightening.  On balance, recent economic indicators in Canada suggest
that growth in the second half of this year is slightly stronger
than the Bank projected in October. Household expenditures have
more momentum than had been expected and business investment
remains solid. Going forward, the weaker external outlook is
expected to dampen GDP growth in Canada through financial,
confidence and trade channels. The economy also continues to face
competitiveness challenges, including the persistent strength of
the Canadian dollar.  Although total CPI inflation has been slightly higher than
projected, the Bank continues to expect the inflation rate to
decline as a result of reduced pressures from food and energy
prices and ongoing excess supply in the economy.  Core inflation 
has also been slightly firmer than projected and is expected to
ease as the output gap persists well into 2013.  Reflecting all of these factors, the Bank has decided to
maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. With
the target interest rate near historic lows and the financial
system functioning well, there is considerable monetary policy
stimulus in Canada. The Bank will continue to monitor carefully
economic and financial developments in the Canadian and global
economies, together with the evolution of risks, and set monetary
policy consistent with achieving the 2 per cent inflation target
over the medium term.  Information note: The next scheduled date for announcing the
overnight rate target is 17 January 2012. A full update of the
Bank’s outlook for the economy and inflation, including risks to
the projection, will be published in the MPR on 18 January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  