-- 
Bank of Canada Keeps Key Rate at 1% as European Debt Poses Contagion Risk

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-12-06T16:18:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/bank-of-canada-keeps-key-rate-at-1-as-european-debt-poses-contagion-risk.html
The Bank of  Canada  kept its key
policy interest rate unchanged today and cited Europe’s
deepening debt crisis as raising risks to global economic
growth.  The Ottawa-based central bank left its target for overnight
loans between commercial banks at 1 percent, where it has been
since September 2010, as forecast by all 26 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg News.  “The recession in Europe is now expected to be more
pronounced than the Bank had anticipated in October,” policy
makers led by Governor  Mark Carney , 46, said in a statement from
Ottawa today. “There is considerable monetary policy stimulus
in Canada,” the bank said, echoing its Oct. 25 decision when
policy makers removed a reference to the need for paring
monetary stimulus.  Growth in the world’s 10th-largest economy will slow next
year, due to weaker global demand and the “challenge” of
persistent currency strength, after expanding in the second half
of this year at a faster pace than forecast, the bank said.
Carney, who was named chairman of the Financial Stability Board
last month, said Nov. 23 he has “flexibility” in keeping
 interest rates  low while meeting his inflation target.  ‘Quite Comfortable’  The bank is “quite comfortable being at 1 percent,” said
Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist for TD Securities Inc. in
Toronto. “The need for an outright additional rate cut in
Canada isn’t there,” and policy makers are “looking through”
the recent rebound in Canadian growth, he said, predicting no
move until March 2013.  Canada’s currency rose after the decision, trading 0.3
percent stronger at C$1.0133 per  U.S. dollar  at 11:01 a.m. in
Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 98.69 U.S. cents. Bonds fell,
with the two-year government yield rising 4 basis points to 0.91
percent.  “The weaker external outlook is expected to dampen GDP
growth in Canada through financial, confidence and trade
channels,” the bank said today. The statement also reiterated
Carney’s comment last month that the economy would return to
full capacity “well into 2013,” a slight change from the
October prediction that full output would resume by the end of
that year.  European leaders have spent two years struggling to prevent
the region’s sovereign debt crisis from affecting the region’s
largest economies. Germany and  France  risk losing their AAA
credit ratings in a review of 15 euro nations for possible
downgrades,  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday.  Growth to Slow  Canada’s gross domestic product growth will slow to 1.9
percent in 2012 from 2.1 percent this year, the central bank
said in its October forecast.  Market-determined interest rates have been falling without
the central bank reducing its benchmark rate. Canada’s  five-year
bond yield  had fallen 27 basis points to 1.37 percent since the
October central-bank decision. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
said yesterday he may offer new stimulus if domestic growth
sags.  Growth  rebounded  in the third quarter to a 3.5 percent
annualized pace following natural disasters that slowed exports
and output in the prior three months,  Statistics Canada  said
Nov. 30. Companies such as Montreal-based jet maker  Bombardier
Inc.  say they haven’t seen a sharp decline in demand for their
products.  “Yes, there is caution, as a result of the economy, in the
market, but orders are still being placed for  business jets ,”
Barry MacKinnon, director of market development at Bombardier,
said at a Nov. 15 industry conference.  Inflation Outlook  Consumer prices advanced  2.9 percent  in October from a year
earlier, Statistics Canada said Nov. 18, and the central bank
predicts inflation will slow to 1 percent by the middle of next
year. The central bank sets rates to keep prices advancing in
the middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent range.  The bank today said it would “continue to monitor
carefully economic and financial developments,” and “set
monetary policy consistent with achieving the 2 percent
inflation target over the medium term,” repeating language it
used in October.  “They are presenting a very balanced view” of growth in
 North America  and risks in  Europe , said Dawn Desjardins,
assistant chief economist at Royal  Bank of Canada  in Toronto.
“It’s not just doom and gloom from the Bank of Canada’s
perspective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  