-- 
Bank of Montreal Declines as Profit Misses Estimates on Investment Banking

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-12-06T21:36:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/bank-of-montreal-profit-rises-as-u-s-takeover-bolsters-lending.html
Bank of Montreal (BMO) ,  Canada ’s fourth-
biggest bank, reported a quarterly profit that missed analysts’
estimates as it set aside more money for souring loans and
earned less from investment banking. The stock fell the most in
almost a year.  Net income rose 21 percent to C$897 million ($881 million),
or C$1.34 a share, in the fiscal fourth quarter ending Oct. 31
from C$739 million, or C$1.24 a share, a year earlier, the
Toronto-based bank said today in a statement. Revenue climbed 20
percent to C$3.88 billion, as its takeover of a Wisconsin lender
helped bolster earnings from consumer banking.  Bank of Montreal is the first of six Canadian banks to miss
analysts’ estimates for the period, as gains in U.S. consumer
lending and private-client banking were pared by higher loan-
loss provisions and a drop in  investment banking  and trading
revenue. Its adjusted profit was C$1.27 a share, missing the
C$1.31 average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We would have liked to see Bank of Montreal come out with
stronger results given what the rest of the banks came out
with,” said  Todd Johnson , a  money manager  at BCV Asset
Management in Winnipeg, Manitoba, whose firm oversees about
C$300 million. “This is not out of the ordinary from what we
can expect from the banking sector in Canada in general. It’s
moderating and margins are under pressure.”  Revised Targets  Bank of Montreal fell 3.5 percent to C$57.74 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto, the biggest drop in almost a year.  The firm revised its medium-term financial targets, aiming
for 8 percent to 10 percent per-share earnings growth and return
on equity of between 15 percent and 18 percent, both on an
average annual adjusted basis.  “We adjusted the EPS target in reflection of more moderate
economic growth that we would have anticipated in the latter
half of this year,” Chief Executive Officer William Downe said
in an interview. “I think it will pick up, but the first half
of 2012 is going to be a little bit slower growth.”  A year ago, Bank of Montreal’s medium-term objective was to
increase per-share earnings by an average of 12 percent a year,
and to produce an average annual return on equity of 17 percent
to 20 percent.  The bank plans to appoint board member Robert Prichard as
chairman at its next annual meeting in March to replace David Galloway, who’s retiring, according to a separate statement. For
the year, Bank of Montreal said it earned C$3.27 billion, or
C$5.26 a share, up 16 percent from C$2.81 billion, or C$4.75 in
2010.  U.S. Banking  Canadian  consumer-banking  profit rose 1.4 percent to C$424
million, as volume growth from banking products was hurt by
declining margins, or the difference between what a bank charges
for loans and what it pays in deposits.  “We continue to show strong deposit growth, but we’re not
getting the same benefit of it as we would in what I would
consider a normal interest-rate environment,” Downe, 59, said.  Net interest margin on average assets was 2.78 percent, the
lowest in at least two years.  “BMO clearly faces the headwinds of margin compression,
slow loan growth and potentially weakening credit in both the
U.S. and Canada,”  Peter Routledge , an analyst with National
Bank Financial, said in a note.  Loan-loss provisions across the bank rose 15 percent to
C$290 million from C$253 million a year ago.  BMO Harris Bank  Profit from its U.S. consumer lender, BMO Harris Bank, more
than tripled to C$156 million, after adding earnings from its
acquisition of Wisconsin lender Marshall & Ilsley. Bank of
Montreal’s C$4.1 billion acquisition that closed in July doubled
the U.S. branches and deposits of Chicago-based BMO Harris Bank,
giving Bank of Montreal more branches in  Chicago  than Toronto.  The bank’s BMO Capital Markets investment-banking business
had profit of C$149 million, down 30 percent from a year
earlier. Trading revenue fell 41 percent to C$128 million,
pulled down by trading of equities and interest-rate securities.
Revenue from underwriting and advisory fees was C$76 million,
less than half that of a year earlier.  The firm’s private-client group, which includes insurance
and mutual funds, boosted profit 12 percent to C$144 million.  Bank of Montreal will focus next year on streamlining
operations, increasing productivity while cutting unnecessary
costs, Downe said.  Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank, Bank of  Nova
Scotia  and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce last week reported
results that beat analysts’ estimates.  Yesterday,  Canadian Western Bank  said profit rose 15
percent to C$45 million and boosted its quarterly dividend to 15
cents a share, a 7.1 percent increase. Excluding one-time items,
the Edmonton, Alberta-based bank earned 55 cents a share,
matching estimates.  National Bank of Canada (NA) , the last Canadian lender scheduled
to post results, reports on Dec. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  