-- 
Basel Rules Face Change With No-Risk Sovereign Debt a Focus

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-12-06T11:46:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/basel-rules-face-change-with-no-risk-sovereign-debt-focus-as-crisis-widens.html
Regulators may diminish the central
role of  government bonds  in planned banking rules designed to
make the financial system safer.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which
coordinates regulations for 27 countries, may let banks use
equities and more corporate debt, in addition to cash and
sovereign bonds, to satisfy new short-term  liquidity  standards,
said two people with direct knowledge of the plans who requested
anonymity because the talks are private. The move could reduce
demand for European  government securities , making it harder for
nations on the brink of insolvency to fund themselves.  “One of the central pillars of the Basel III framework is
the notion of a risk-free asset class,” said Matthew Czepliewicz, a banking analyst at Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc
in  London . “That central pillar is disintegrating. Basel is
quite clearly going to have to be revised.”  Since rules on liquidity and capital known as Basel III
were approved in 2010, holders of Greek debt have agreed to a 50
percent writedown, while prices of Italian, Spanish and
Portuguese bonds have fallen as yields hit euro-era highs.
Regulators now face a balancing act between acknowledging
investors’ loss of confidence in sovereign debt, which has
contributed to a 30 percent decline in  bank shares (BEBANKS)  this year,
and the need to avoid undermining governments’ credibility.  Nestle, Portugal  Limiting the role of government bonds in the Basel rules is
logical, said Bob Penn, financial-regulation partner at Allen &
Overy LLP in London.  “In a world where Nestle is seen as less risky than
Portugal, it makes complete sense, but it is politically and
economically very difficult,” Penn said in a telephone
interview. “The state requires someone to Hoover up its own
debt. Discouraging banks from investing in some countries’ bonds
could have a damaging effect on sovereign borrowing.”  Basel’s so-called liquidity coverage ratio, scheduled to be
phased in starting in 2015, requires banks to hold enough
“high-quality liquid assets” -- predominantly cash and
government debt -- to survive 30 days of stress. Only a quarter
of 28 of Europe’s largest banks would comply today, leaving a
shortfall of 500 billion euros ($670 billion), according to a
Nov. 29 report by  Kian Abouhossein , an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  in London.  ‘Credit Quality’  With lenders including France’s BNP Paribas SA,  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  paring their holdings
of euro-area sovereign debt, the target may be impossible to
reach in its current form, analysts say. European banks cut
their holdings of Greek, Irish, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish
bonds by about 5 percent in the second quarter to about 278
billion euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There aren’t enough assets in the world that are
genuinely liquid and of high enough quality to allow all the
banks to meet this ratio,” said Barbara Ridpath, chief
executive officer of the International Centre for Financial
Regulation, a London research group funded by banks and the U.K.
government. “And that’s only likely to get worse because of the
changing credit quality of some of the sovereigns.”  The debt crisis also is leading some regulators to question
rules that allow European lenders to apply zero risk-weightings
to government bonds issued in a bank’s home currency when
calculating  capital ratios . Under current European Union
guidelines, banks don’t need to hold any capital against the
securities, even after the cost of insuring government bonds
against default rose to a record last month.  ‘Subsidiary’ Bonds  Regulators should distinguish between the sovereign debt of
countries that have control over their own monetary policy and
“subsidiary” sovereign bonds issued by countries in the euro
zone, Adair Turner, chairman of the U.K.’s  Financial Services
Authority , said in a Nov. 21 speech at the  Centre for Financial
Studies  in Frankfurt.  “The current favoritism toward sovereign debt, inherent in
prudential capital liquidity requirements and in central bank
collateral rules, should in future apply only to fully sovereign
debt, and either not apply at all or to a far lesser extent to
subsidiary sovereign debt,” Turner said.  Some U.S. bankers, including  Jamie Dimon , CEO of JPMorgan,
the largest U.S. lender, have called for an overhaul of the
current risk-weighting regime, which allows banks to use their
own models to assess the safety of assets and how much capital
they need to hold. U.S. lenders are governed by Basel I rules
that assign standardized weightings to broad classes of assets,
since the U.S. never adopted the second round of regulations
that are in effect in the EU.  ‘Large Disparities’  The proportion of risk-weighted assets to total assets at
European banks is half that of U.S. banks, according to an April
6 report by Simon Samuels and  Mike Harrison , analysts at
 Barclays Capital  in London. In testimony in June before the
House Financial Services Committee, Federal Reserve Governor
 Daniel Tarullo  called on regulators to stamp out the “large
disparities” in how banks apply weightings before Basel III is
implemented.  Scrapping the zero-risk-weighting provision in calculating
capital ratios would force banks to choose between raising
hundreds of billions of euros or cutting lending, which analysts
say could worsen the region’s economic crisis. Economists at  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank are predicting a recession
in the euro zone next year.  Liquidity Buffer  Under  proposals  published by the Basel committee in
December 2010, at least 60 percent of a bank’s short-term
liquidity buffer must be in cash or securities underwritten by
governments and central banks. The remainder can include
corporate bonds rated AA- and covered bonds.  The committee is reviewing the proposals and plans to
announce potential changes in the first quarter of next year,
according to a September statement.  Analysts and economists question whether it’s still
appropriate to require lenders to hold such a large proportion
of government bonds.  The 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index has fallen about 30 percent this year and the companies
are trading at a 37 percent discount to book value, according to
Bloomberg data. Moody’s Investors Service said Nov. 28 it may
cut the credit ratings of 87 banks in 15 countries because of
the “rapid escalation of the euro-area sovereign and banking
credit crisis” and the “absence of policy measures that
stabilize market conditions.”  ‘Toward Insolvency’  “It’s difficult to see how the rules can come in in their
current form,” said  Edward Chan , a banking lawyer at Linklaters
LLP in London. “On the one hand, they require banks to hold
euro-zone sovereign debt to meet liquidity targets, yet holding
those securities pushes them further and further toward
insolvency.”  When the coverage ratio was first proposed in December
2009, the  spread  in yields between  Spanish  10-year government
bonds and German sovereign debt of a similar maturity was about
60 basis points. It widened to a record of 469 basis points on
Nov. 22. During that time, the spread between Italian debt
relative to German securities ballooned to a record 553 basis
points from about 80 basis points. A basis point is one-
hundredth of a percentage point.  “The whole notion of risk-free public-sector debt is
bedeviled by problems,” Charles Goodhart, a former Bank of
England policy maker and a professor at the London School of
Economics, said in a telephone interview. “It’s very difficult
to say that all countries in the euro zone are equally risk-free
when the market suggests they are not in a very strong way.”  German Bond Sale  Even governments once considered safe are struggling to
attract investors. Germany failed to sell about 35 percent of
the 6 billion euros of 10-year bonds it offered on Nov. 23.
 Standard & Poor’s  is poised to place all 17 euro nations on
review for possible downgrade, according to two officials
familiar with the decision who declined to be named. That would
leave Germany and France at risk of losing their AAA ratings.  Meanwhile, the turmoil in Europe has boosted demand for
government bonds of countries outside the euro zone, pushing
yields lower. Ten-year U.S. Treasuries yielded about 2.08
percent as of 6:15 a.m. in  New York , compared with 3.29 percent
at the start of the year. Yields on Swiss government bonds of a
similar maturity tumbled to 0.82 percent from 1.64 percent, and
U.K. gilt yields shrank to 2.32 percent from 3.40 percent over
the same period.  “Day by day, there seem to be fewer asset classes that the
market regards as risk-free, such as U.S. Treasuries and Swiss
government bonds, and the banks can’t all load up on U.S.
debt,” said Collins Stewart Hawkpoint’s Czepliewicz.  Equities Turnaround  Under one option being considered, banks could increase the
proportion of the buffer that can be made up of high-grade
corporate and covered bonds, said one person with knowledge of
the review.  Regulators could also decide to allow banks to use equities
to meet the liquidity requirement, two people familiar with the
review said. That would mark a turnaround. Stefan Walter, who
left his post as secretary general of the Basel committee in
October, told  Risk  magazine in June that equities weren’t being
considered for inclusion.  “The liquidity standards clearly outline the
characteristics for high-quality liquid assets,” Walter said in
the interview. “Equities fail to meet these characteristics as
they typically carry considerable credit and market risk, are
often correlated with risky assets and, in times of crisis, tend
not to be flight-to-quality assets.”  Net Cash Outflow  Broadening the definition of the liquidity buffer to
include more liquid assets such as equities would make sense,
said  Kinner Lakhani , a banking analyst at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in
London. The securities should be subject to “significant
haircuts” to reflect price volatility, he said.  “The cash sovereign bond market has been less liquid than
many would have imagined,” Lakhani said. “At least equities
remain a liquid asset class.”  Allowing banks to use equities would help firms with
significant market-making operations because they could use the
equities they already hold for the buffer, Lakhani said.  Under the plan being considered by the Basel committee,
equities could be counted in calculating a lender’s coverage
ratio, one of the people familiar with the talks said. While
they would continue to be ineligible as high-quality liquid
assets, proceeds from the sale of publicly traded shares a
lender owns could be used to offset a bank’s net cash outflow,
the total likely to leave a business under stress, the person
said. In practice, this would allow banks to reduce their
holdings of sovereign debt by increasing the equities they own.  Frozen Markets  That may bring its own difficulties, said Andrew Stimpson,
an analyst at KBW Inc. in London.  “Equities aren’t going to do very well if you’re entering a
scenario where outflows do happen, as you’re going to have other
banks selling stocks as well,” he said in an interview. “That
is going to create a spiral, which sounds like a disaster.”  Under  Basel III , lenders also are subject to a second
liquidity buffer, known as the net stable funding ratio, which
requires them to cut their reliance on short-term money markets
by boosting holdings of debt with longer maturities. Equities
can be used in calculating that ratio.  While lenders have until 2018 to comply, that could prove
difficult with funding markets frozen and investors demanding
record interest rates to buy bank debt, analysts say.  European banks have sold about 14.6 billion euros of senior
unsecured bonds since the markets constricted at the end of
July, compared with 73.7 billion euros in the same period last
year, according to  Morgan Stanley (MS)  data. The European Central
Bank’s balance sheet rose to a record 2.42 trillion euros in the
week through Nov. 25, about 500 billion euros more than a year
ago, as banks tapped it for funds because they were unable to
borrow from one another.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  