-- 
Bernanke Tells Lawmakers News Articles on Fed Aid Have ‘Egregious’ Errors

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-12-06T20:36:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/bernanke-tells-lawmakers-news-articles-on-fed-aid-have-egregious-errors.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said recent news articles about the central bank’s
emergency lending contain “egregious errors.”  “The articles recycle information that has been disclosed
to the Congress and the American people in various forms for
some time,” Bernanke said in letters to Senate Banking
Committee Chairman Tim Johnson and the three other senior
lawmakers who oversee the Fed. The Fed posted the letters and an
accompanying four-page staff memo on its website today.  The Fed was compelled to identify financial-crisis loan
recipients by Congress under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and by
courts after losing lawsuits brought by Bloomberg News and News
Corp.’s Fox News Network LLC. The Bernanke letter and staff
memo, without identifying any news organization, referred to
points from a Nov. 28 Bloomberg article, which was based on an
analysis of public data.  “The disclosure issues raised in these articles have
already been addressed and settled, first by the  Federal Reserve 
through a variety of reports and public postings, and then by
Congress after a public debate,” Bernanke, 57, said in the
 letter .  The Fed staff’s memo is billed as a “correction of recent
press reports.” The central bank never kept the creation of any
lending program secret, and while the names of borrowers weren’t
revealed until Congress required some disclosures, the Fed
reported regularly on overall balances in the facilities and
showed average aggregate loans for the largest borrowers each
month, the memo said. “Congress was well informed of the volume
of borrowing by large banks,” it said.  Total Credit  The Fed memo said one article asserted that the central
bank “lent or guaranteed more than $7.7 trillion during the
financial crisis.” The memo said that and higher estimates are
“wildly inaccurate,” and that the peak total credit
outstanding was about $1.5 trillion in December 2008.  In a March 31, 2009, story, Bloomberg News tallied the
potential commitments of the Fed using as sources statements the
central bank had made and its weekly balance sheet. The story
said the Fed “spent, lent or committed” $7.77 trillion. The
Bloomberg story on Nov. 28 said the figure included “guarantees
and lending limits.”  The central bank’s memo said the Nov. 28 article also
“incorrectly asserted that banks ‘reaped an estimated $13
billion of income by taking advantage of the Fed’s below-market
rates.’”  Penalty Pricing  Bloomberg’s $13 billion estimate was based on the net
interest margin that banks reported for the periods in which
they took emergency loans. Net interest margin is the difference
between what banks earn on loans and investments and their
borrowing expenses. The 190 firms for which data were available
would have produced income of $13 billion, assuming all of the
bailout funds were invested at the margins reported, the data
show.  “Most of the Federal Reserve’s lending facilities were
priced at a penalty over normal market rates so that borrowers
had economic incentives to exit the facilities as market
conditions normalized, and the rates that the Federal Reserve
charged on its lending programs did not provide a subsidy to
borrowers,” the Fed memo said.  In addition to Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat, the
letters, dated today, were sent to Alabama Senator  Richard Shelby , the senior Republican on the banking panel; House
Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus , also an
Alabama Republican; and Massachusetts Representative  Barney Frank , the panel’s senior Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  