-- 
Birinyi Says Buy Iconic Brands Like Ralph Lauren to Beat Market

-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-12-06T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/birinyi-says-to-beat-volatile-markets-buy-iconic-brands-like-ralph-lauren.html
Laszlo Birinyi says he knew it would
be hard to make predictions for 2012 in October, when he saw a
headline suggesting that markets would rise or fall depending on
whether the tiny nation of Slovakia approved a bailout plan for
 Europe .  Birinyi, president of stock market research and money-
management firm Birinyi Associates Inc., says markets are so
volatile that it doesn’t take much to send them reeling, reports
Bloomberg Markets magazine in its January issue.  “There are so many exogenous factors that to try to
forecast the market with a degree of confidence is difficult,”
Birinyi says.  The best strategy for stock investors, he says, is to stick
with iconic brands, such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  or  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) ,
and with companies that offer “meaningful dividends” of at least
5 percent.  Jason Pride, director of investment strategy at Glenmede, a
Philadelphia-based private-wealth and investment management
firm, says investors are operating in an “upside down”
environment. They should take less risk in equities and more in
their fixed-income portfolios, says Pride, whose firm oversees
about $20 billion. He’s telling his clients to buy high-yield
corporate bonds and adjust their stock holdings to emphasize
those that pay dividends.  Seeking out dividend yield is also a theme for Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist of Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages about $54 billion.
Large, high-quality U.S. companies such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  that have a history of increasing their
dividends and substantial free  cash flow  are the most prudent
equity investments, he says.  ‘Upper-Tier’ Junk  Dan Curtin, global investment specialist at J.P. Morgan
Private Bank, sees one of the best opportunities in high-yield
bonds. He’s been moving more of his clients’ money into “upper-
tier” junk bonds -- that is, those just below investment grade.
High-yield, high-risk bonds are graded below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Luschini endorses the strategy.  “Don’t be a hero by going down into triple and double C’s,
because if global growth continues to weaken, it’s going to make
those speculative issues more suspect,” Luschini says. The
smartest approach is to buy high-yield bond funds or exchange-
traded funds to diversify risk, he says.  High-yield bond funds returned 1.3 percent on average this
year through Dec. 2, according to  data  from Morningstar Inc.  World Bonds  Pride is also telling his American clients to diversify
into overseas bonds, cautioning them to buy debt in nations that
are fiscally disciplined and raised their  interest rates  post-
crisis, such as  Australia (RBATCTR) ,  Malaysia (MAOPRATE)  and  South Korea .  World bond funds rose 2.9 percent this year through Dec. 2
and emerging-market bond funds 2.3 percent, Morningstar data
show.  Above all, in this confusing environment, investment
managers should admit their limitations, Birinyi says.  “While we have a positive attitude,” he says, “we don’t
want to go out there and pretend that we know what’s going to
happen in Slovakia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net ;  Rick
Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 