-- 
Birth Control Studies Needed to Assess Clot Risk, FDA Says

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-12-06T14:04:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/birth-control-studies-needed-to-assess-clot-risk-fda-says.html
U.S. regulators pushed for more
studies on birth control pills containing the hormone
drospirenone, such as  Bayer AG’s  Yaz, after concluding the risk
of blood clots is unclear.  An FDA advisory panel will meet Dec. 8 to review studies
that have found conflicting evidence of the chances of clots
associated with the oral contraceptives, according to a  Food and
Drug Administration  staff  report  released today. The panel will
also weigh the risks and benefits of the pills.  The FDA published a  report  in October that found birth
control pills containing drospirenone are linked to a higher
danger of blood clots relative to standard low-dose versions.
Six trials have shown conflicting data on whether the products
are linked to a higher risk, the agency said at the time.  “None of the studies to date provides a definitive
answer,” FDA said in the report today. “The entire body of
studies provides conflicting evidence that cannot easily be
reconciled by consideration of any single difference among
studies.”  Women taking drospirenone were 74 percent more likely to
experience clots than those on low-estrogen pills, the agency
said. Drospirenone is similar to the natural female hormone
progesterone. Bayer conducted studies that found no increased
blood-clot risk.  Bayer’s Yaz and Yasmin brought in $1.5 billion in sales for
the German drugmaker last year as its second best-selling drug,
less than the $1.8 billion in 2009.  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  launched a generic version of Yaz in May 2010.  The advisory panel will also evaluate Dec. 9 the risk of
blood clots associated with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Ortho Evra birth
control patch. The FDA isn’t required to follow the panel’s
recommendations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 