-- 
Blagojevich Could Get 20-Year Term for Trying to Sell Obama Senate Seat

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/blagojevich-could-get-20-year-term-for-trying-to-sell-obama-senate-seat.html
Ex-Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich ,
convicted of political corruption, is set today to address the
judge who rejected his claim that he deserves leniency because
he never collected money in exchange for official acts.  A lawyer for Blagojevich told U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel in Chicago yesterday that the 15- to 20-year prison term
proposed by prosecutors for her client’s 18 convictions in two
trials is too stiff considering he didn’t get the campaign
contributions and other personal benefits he sought. The judge
responded that the ex-governor intended to gain more than $1.6
million and must be held accountable for his efforts, including
his attempt to sell Barack Obama’s former U.S. Senate seat.  “The governor of  Illinois  had significant power to inflict
penalties on those who did not pay,” Zagel said.  The judge said that while the twice-elected Democrat would
be eligible under federal sentencing guidelines for a prison
term of 30 years to life, a punishment that severe is “simply
not appropriate within the context of this case.”  Blagojevich, 54, led the fifth-most populous American state
from January 2003 until his impeachment and removal from office
in January 2009. He was arrested a month earlier for what
Chicago U.S. Attorney Patrick J. Fitzgerald then called “a
political corruption crime spree.”  His sentencing hearing started yesterday and the judge is
expected to impose a punishment today. Blagojevich’s lawyer,
Carolyn Gurland, told Zagel yesterday that the defendant plans
to address the court.  Gurland argued yesterday that the illegal monetary gain the
government attributed to her client is too speculative and
shouldn’t be a factor in his sentencing.  ‘Received Nothing’  “Here, Mr. Blagojevich received nothing and was never
going to receive anything,” Gurland said. She also contended
that he was influenced by those he employed.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reid Schar  countered that the issue
was what Blagojevich wanted, not what he actually received.  Zagel rejected Gurland’s assertion her client was a
follower and not a leader, and pointed to wiretapped recordings
of the governor heard during his trial.  “Based on these tapes, I don’t think he was an easy man to
stop,” said the judge, who was appointed to the bench in 1987
by Republican President  Ronald Reagan .  History of Corruption  Gurland also implored the judge not to impose a harsh
sentence simply because Illinois has a history of political
corruption or because Blagojevich’s predecessor, George Ryan,
received a prison term of only 6 1/2 years. Ryan, a Republican,
was found guilty in 2006 of trading political favors for gifts,
trips and cash.  “It’s not necessarily the right strategy to double down,”
if the current approach to deterring such crime isn’t working,
she said. “If it’s not working, don’t apply it more.”  Such an approach, Gurland said, is “demonstrably unfair to
Mr. Blagojevich.”  Another defense attorney,  Sheldon Sorosky , also pleaded for
leniency, calling Blagojevich’s crimes “rather minimally
wrong.”  “They’re not right, they’re minimally wrong compared with
the outrageous conduct in these other cases,” he said, alluding
to Ryan and other Illinois state and municipal officials who
have been found guilty of past corruption.  ‘Tragic Figure’  The defense, which called Blagojevich “a tragic figure”
in a Dec. 1 court filing, contended the prison term should be no
longer than 51 months, and argued for still less.  Prosecutors have said only a substantial punishment can
deter potential future wrongdoers in a state where four of the
most recent nine governors have been convicted for crimes
committed before, during or after they held the office.  Blagojevich was indicted on 24 criminal counts in 2009. A
jury in 2010 deadlocked on 23 of 24 charges, convicting him only
of lying to federal agents.  Prosecutors dropped three counts before the retrial that
ended with a new jury finding him guilty on 17 charges,
including all 11 relating to the senate seat allegation. Jurors
deadlocked on two counts and acquitted him on one.  They found the ex-governor guilty of 10 wire fraud counts,
two attempted extortion counts and two extortion conspiracy
counts, each punishable by as long as 20 years in prison. He was
also convicted of solicitation of bribery, which carries a
maximum sentence of 10 years, and two bribery conspiracy counts,
which carry top sentences of five years.  Tony Rezko  Antoin “Tony” Rezko, a former fund-raiser for Blagojevich
and for Obama, received a 10 1/2-year sentence from a different
 Chicago  federal judge on Nov. 22 for his role in a scheme to
take kickbacks from firms receiving investment business from the
state teachers’ pension system and from firms that could profit
from the awarding of hospital construction certificates.  Prosecutors cited the Rezko and Ryan cases in a Nov. 30
court submission urging Zagel to “deter current and future
public officials from engaging in Blagojevich-like criminal
activity.”  “Blagojevich was the sitting governor of Illinois when he
committed his crimes,” they said. “As the chief executive of
the state, Blagojevich was in a special position of
responsibility to the public. His abuse of office is
particularly grave given the faith put in him by the citizens of
Illinois.”  Steven A. Miller, a former federal prosecutor who is now a
white-collar defense attorney, agreed in a phone interview last
week.  “He’s going to receive a sentence that will take the
oxygen out of the courtroom when it’s announced,” Miller, a
partner in the Chicago office of Pittsburgh-based  Reed Smith
LLP . He predicted a 14-year term.  ‘Reform Candidate’  “He ran as a reform candidate for governor,” said  Miller ,
who served for 18 years as a federal prosecutor in Chicago, four
of them leading a division in charge of prosecuting public
corruption, before entering private practice in 1997.  “The hypocrisy is enormous,” he said.  Miller said the history of Illinois public corruption cases
hasn’t abated criminal activity.  “There is a frustration in the courts,” he said. “It
never seems to end.” Ryan’s sentence, he said, was probably too
light and shouldn’t be used as benchmark for punishing
Blagojevich.  James Montana , another former federal prosecutor now in
private practice as a white-collar criminal defense lawyer, said
he expects Blagojevich will get a 12-year term.  “Rezko got 10 and Rezko was not the public official,” the
attorney said. “Something above 10 years but below 15 years
ought to satisfy anyone’s sense of justice.”  The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  