-- 
Default a World Away Has a Greek Lesson: Blejer and Levy-Yeyati

-- B y   M a r i o   I .   B l e j e r   a n d   E d u a r d o   L e v y - Y e y a t i
-- 
2011-12-06T00:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/blejer-levy-yeyati-default-a-world-away-has-greek-lesson.html
The inevitable is finally happening.
Although new uncertainties tend to replace old ones -- the focus
has shifted to  Italy ’s troubles in the past few weeks --  Greece 
is going through a default.  It’s likely that this process will be guided by the broad
outlines of an agreement reached between the  European Union  and
Greece in October, although the details are probably subject to
change.  As part of that accord, Greece and its private creditors
have been invited to implement a bond exchange with a nominal
discount, or haircut, of 50 percent of face value. Even though
acceptance of the invitation is portrayed as voluntary, this
agreement is, in all but name, a default, and for practical
purposes should be consider as such.  Many comparisons have been made between Greece and
 Argentina , and now that default will be another common feature,
we believe there are two distinct -- often overlooked or
misconstrued -- lessons from the Argentine precedent.  The first has to do with the timing and size of the debt
exchange. In this regard, Argentina’s lessons are clear:
Delaying the unavoidable and then defaulting belatedly,
unilaterally and in a disorderly fashion, imposes significant
costs in real activity, with no visible benefits. True, markets
need to see some pain to be convinced of a country’s willingness
to pay, in order to accept a default. But Argentina, like Greece
now, went way beyond that. By the time Argentina defaulted in
2001, it had experienced four years of recession and its  gross
domestic product  had declined by about 22 percent. How much pain
should Greece endure?  Go Big  On the size of the debt haircut, the conclusion is also
unambiguous: If you have to cut, you better go for lock, stock
and barrel. The key to restoring access to  capital markets  is to
rebuild solvency based on debt sustainability after the
restructuring. Returning to the financial market doesn’t depend
on hard feelings about the size of the haircut. Argentina was
initially regarded as a financial pariah because it refused to
negotiate with bondholders. However, it regained access to
credit markets relatively fast after the 2005 debt exchange,
which entailed a very large haircut -- large enough to make the
country solvent.  In financial markets, bygones are bygones and, once you
have made the point that the default was inevitable, ex-post
solvency counts for much more than manners, procedural details
and how the haircut was achieved. It is in this context that one
has to assess the reports that Greece is trying to extend the
debt relief beyond the 50 percent haircut originally agreed
upon. This is a correct approach because an insufficient
discount will still carry the costs of a default without the
benefits of a clean slate.  The claim that Argentina’s sovereign risk premium remained
large throughout the 2000s is often posed as proof that the size
of the haircut matters. But this overlooks the fact that by the
end of 2006, a little more than a year after the completion of
the exchange, Argentine bond spreads were almost equal to those
of  Brazil . They widened later for reasons unrelated to the
default.  It follows from this experience that the faster Greece and
its creditors stop haggling over the details, the sooner the
country will be able to begin normalizing its relationship with
capital markets.  The second lesson, equally critical, relates to the role of
liquidity in a solvency crisis -- or who takes care of the
casualties the day after default? The Greek saga has taken so
long that debt restructuring is often seen as the endgame,
whereas it is just the beginning. Judging from every emerging-
market crisis in the 1990s (and most notably Argentina’s), one
would expect the ongoing deposit run on Greek banks to intensify
to the point of threatening the economic recovery. If not
actively taken care of by the central bank, the deposit run and
the resulting liquidity squeeze could easily compromise the
payments system, paralyzing the economy in the aftermath of the
default.  Bank Solvency  Ten years ago, when the run on Argentine banks deepened and
the default was declared, both the need to ensure bank solvency
through recapitalization and the provision of liquidity to the
banks became critical elements to restore credibility. Back
then, the bank-solvency problem was dealt with through
“pesification,” a mandatory conversion into pesos of dollar
deposits and loans that avoided huge bankruptcies. Most
crucially, the central bank didn’t hesitate to print all the
pesos needed to meet bank withdrawals. The run ended within six
months.  In light of the Argentine experience, it seems of critical
importance to assert unambiguously who will fulfill the role of
a central bank in Greece, given that substituting the drachma
for the euro may not be an option. Only a central bank can
ensure that corporate solvency will be preserved and provide the
liquidity needed to keep the economy running until confidence
returns. It’s not clear whether the  European Central Bank  is
ready to fulfill this role and to act as the European lender of
last resort -- a role it has repeatedly rejected.  With this perspective in mind it may be useful to remember
what the late Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, formerly Italy’s finance
minister and a director of the ECB, used to say: “A common
currency is more than a common central bank: It requires a
common political will.” But it is also useful to stress that
the opposite is true as well: The political will to incur costs
to buttress the common currency needs to be complemented with a
central bank willing and able to act as a liquidity backstop
once solvency is secured.  Only a combination of a prompt and bold restructuring and a
fully committed and proactive central bank can put an end to the
Greek ordeal.  (Mario I. Blejer is a former governor of Argentina’s
central bank, was a senior adviser to the  International Monetary
Fund  and is currently the vice chairman of Banco Hipotecario SA.
Eduardo Levy-Yeyati, former chief economist of Argentina’s central
bank, is a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  and a
professor at Universidad Torcuato Di Tella. The opinions expressed
are their own.)  To contact the authors of this article:
Mario I. Blejer at  admin@blejer.com ; Eduardo Levy-Yeyati at
 ely@utdt.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 