-- 
Bloomberg News Responds to Bernanke Criticism of U.S. Bank-Rescue Coverage

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-07T22:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/bloomberg-news-responds-to-bernanke-criticism.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a letter to four senior lawmakers yesterday
that recent news articles about the central bank’s emergency
lending programs contained “egregious errors.”  While Bernanke’s letter and an accompanying four-page staff
memo posted on the Fed’s  website  didn’t mention any news
organizations by name, Bloomberg News has published a series of
articles this year examining the bailout. The latest, “Secret
Fed Loans Gave Banks $13 Billion Undisclosed to Congress,”
appeared Nov. 28.  “Bloomberg stands by its reporting,” said  Matthew Winkler , editor-in-chief of Bloomberg News, who responded to the
criticisms today on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .  Here is a point-by-point response by Bloomberg News to the
Fed staff memo.  From Fed memo: “These articles have made repeated claims
that the  Federal Reserve  conducted ‘secret’ lending that was not
disclosed either to the public or the Congress. No lending
program was ever kept secret from the Congress or the public.
All of the programs were publicly announced when they were
initiated, and information about all lending under the programs
was publicly released -- both on a weekly basis through the
Federal Reserve’s public balance sheet release and through
detailed monthly reports to Congress, both of which were also
posted on the Federal Reserve’s website.”  Response: Bloomberg’s Nov. 28 story about Fed lending
reported that the central bank published regular reports on the
scope of borrowings from the discount window and other emergency
or temporary programs. The loans were described as “secret”
because the amounts, names of borrowers, dates and, often,
 interest rates  weren’t disclosed. The stories reported that the
Fed’s rationale for keeping the loans secret was to prevent bank
runs.  From Fed memo: “The Federal Reserve took great care to
ensure that Congress was well-informed of the magnitude and
manner of its lending.”  Response: Bloomberg’s story said Congress wasn’t fully
apprised of the details of the Fed’s efforts. “We were aware
emergency efforts were going on,” U.S. Representative  Barney Frank , who served as chairman of the House Financial Services
Committee, said in the Nov. 28 story. “We didn’t know the
specifics.” Other members of Congress on both sides of the
aisle also said they weren’t aware of the details.  From Fed memo: “Congress was well informed of the volume
of borrowing by large banks. For instance, the monthly reports
showed the daily average borrowing during the month in the
aggregate for the five largest discount window borrowers, the
next five, and the rest. Similar information was also provided
for lending at the emergency facilities.”  Response: Because the Fed didn’t provide the names of
borrowers, it was impossible to add up how much each bank
received across all the programs. Nor did the Fed release these
figures in aggregate form for each institution when it released
data under the Dodd-Frank Act or Bloomberg’s Freedom of
Information Act requests.  In fact, the Fed released separate databases on each of the
programs, and several of the databases identified borrowers by
the name of the subsidiary that got the loan. None of the
releases showed how much money each borrower was in debt to the
Fed on specific dates.  Bloomberg built a database to combine subsidiaries with
their parent companies and to add the total loans outstanding by
each institution across all programs. Bloomberg undertook this
project in the belief that a full accounting of the Fed’s
lending efforts was possible only by tallying what each company
borrowed across all programs.  From Fed memo: “One article asserted that the Federal
Reserve lent or guaranteed more than $7.7 trillion during the
financial crisis. Others have estimated the amounts to be $16
trillion or even $24 trillion. All of these numbers are wildly
inaccurate.  “The inaccurate and misleading estimates could be based on
several errors, including double-counting.”  Response: Bloomberg News reported that Fed lending peaked
at $1.2 trillion, a figure that didn’t include any double-
counting. Instead of adding all the outstanding Fed loans to get
a large number, Bloomberg used peak loan amounts that were
outstanding on a single day. On the day after the Nov. 28 story,
the Fed published that $1.2 trillion figure, affirming
Bloomberg’s calculation.  The $16 trillion number cited by the Fed may refer to a
Government Accountability Office report of July 21, 2011, that
used a different methodology. Bloomberg built its database to
show amounts outstanding, while the GAO tallied cumulative
loans. For example, if a bank borrowed $1 billion overnight for
100 nights, Bloomberg would say the bank had a $1 billion
balance at the Fed for 100 days; the GAO would say the bank
borrowed $100 billion. The former is a more useful economic
measurement. While the GAO also assessed the scope of the
lending on what it called a term-adjusted basis, yielding a
total of $1.14 trillion, some websites and commentators cited
the higher figure.  The programs included in Bloomberg’s examination of Fed
lending were: the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money Market
Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, Commercial Paper Funding
Facility, discount window, Primary Dealer Credit Facility, Term
Auction Facility, Term Securities Lending Facility and single-
tranche open market operations.  From Fed memo: “Other inaccuracies may occur if total
potential lending is counted as actual lending.”  Response: In a March 31, 2009, story, Bloomberg News
tallied the potential commitments of the Fed using as sources
statements the central bank made and its weekly balance sheet.
The amount, $7.77 trillion, was never characterized by Bloomberg
as money lent by the Fed, though other commentators have
mistakenly used it in that context. Rather, Bloomberg has said
that that amount represents what the Fed “lent, spent or
committed” or the total of all “guarantees and lending
limits.” Bloomberg has been careful to characterize this number
as total commitments, not loans that went out the door.  From Fed memo: “The articles make no mention that the
emergency loans and other assistance have generated considerable
income for the American taxpayers. As reported in the Annual
Report of the Board of Governors, alongside the Board’s audited
financial statements, the emergency lending programs have
generated an estimated $20 billion in interest income for the
Treasury. Moreover, in 2009 and 2010, the Federal Reserve
returned to the taxpayers over $125 billion in excess earnings
on its operations, including emergency lending. These amounts
have been publicly announced and are reflected in the Office of
Management and Budget’s financial statements for the government
and have been verified by the Federal Reserve’s independent
outside auditors.”  Response: In an Aug. 22 story, “Wall Street Aristocracy
Got $1.2 Trillion in Fed’s Secret Loans,” Bloomberg wrote:
“The Fed has said it had ‘no credit losses’ on any of the
emergency programs, and a report by the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York staffers in February said the central bank netted $13
billion in interest and fee income from the programs from August
2007 through December 2009.”  The Nov. 28 story quoted Fed officials saying almost all of
the loans were repaid and that there had been no credit losses.  From Fed memo: “The articles discuss lending made to large
banks but never note that Federal Reserve lending programs went
far beyond such institutions -- all in furtherance of supporting
the provision of credit to U.S. households and businesses.
Literally hundreds of institutions borrowed from the Federal
Reserve -- not just large banks. The TAF had some 400 borrowers
and the discount window some 2,100 borrowers. The TALF made more
than 2,000 loans, while the commercial paper funding facility
provided direct assistance to some 120 American businesses.”  Response: Bloomberg reported in Aug. 22 and Nov. 28 stories
that the Fed programs extended beyond large banks. The Aug. 22
story mentioned borrowings by Plano, Texas-based Beal Financial
Corp. and Jacksonville, Florida-based EverBank Financial Corp.  Bloomberg reported in the Nov. 28 story that the six
largest U.S. banks accounted for 63 percent of the average
borrowings by all U.S. financial institutions from the Fed, even
though these firms only represented half of industry assets.
Bloomberg also created an interactive website that allows users
to chart Fed borrowings by more than 400 firms. The smallest
detailed there is Wood & Huston Bancorporation Inc., which had
$5 million outstanding on Feb. 12, 2009. The graphic can be
found  here .  From Fed memo: “The articles also fail to note that the
lending directly helped support American businesses by providing
emergency funding so that they could meet weekly payrolls and
on-going expenses. The Commercial Paper Funding Facility, for
example, provided support to businesses as diverse as Harley-
Davidson and National Rural Utilities, when the usual market
mechanism for their day-to-day funding completely dried up.”  Response: Bloomberg’s interactive graphic details
Commercial Paper Funding Facility borrowings by non-bank
borrowers, including Harley-Davidson Inc. and National Rural
Utilities Cooperative Finance Corp. A Dec. 2, 2010, story, “Fed
May Be ‘Central Bank of the World’ After UBS, Barclays Aid,”
mentioned Harley-Davidson and General Electric Co., the largest
non-bank borrower from the commercial-paper program.  From Fed memo: “The articles fail to mention altogether
that one facility, the TALF, supported nearly 3 million auto
loans, more than 1 million  student loans , nearly 900,000 loans
to small businesses, 150,000 other business loans and millions
of credit card loans.”  Response: Bloomberg didn’t include TALF in its examination
of the Fed’s rescue of the banking system because that program
didn’t cater primarily to banks.  From Fed memo: “The articles misleadingly depict financial
institutions receiving liquidity assistance as insolvent and in
‘deep trouble.’”  Response: Bloomberg never described any of the financial
institutions mentioned in its bailout stories as insolvent.  The New York Fed’s report on Jan. 14, 2009, called
Citigroup Inc.’s financial strength “marginal” and dependent
on $45 billion in TARP funding. Citigroup’s Fed borrowing peaked
six days later at $99 billion. Other numbers tell a similar
story. Morgan Stanley’s borrowing totaled $107 billion on a
single day. Royal Bank of  Scotland  got $84.5 billion from the
Fed at about the same time it was taken over by the U.K.
government.  The largest banks later had to raise billions of dollars of
capital to assuage investor concerns that they might not be
solvent, and they took capital injections from the Treasury
Department. Former Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  wrote in his
book, “On the Brink,” that “our banking system was massively
undercapitalized.”  Under the terms of the Fed’s lending programs, the
determination of whether a bank is “solvent” is based on the
opinions of bank supervisors. These examinations are
confidential.  From Fed memo: “Finally, one article incorrectly asserted
that banks ‘reaped an estimated $13 billion of income by taking
advantage of the Fed’s below-market rates.’ Most of the Federal
Reserve’s lending facilities were priced at a penalty over
normal market rates so that borrowers had economic incentive to
exit the facilities as market conditions normalized, and the
rates that the Federal Reserve charged on its lending facilities
did not provide a subsidy to borrowers.”  Response: As noted in the Nov. 28 Bloomberg article, the
$13 billion figure was based on a metric banks regularly report
called the net interest margin -- the difference between what
they earn on loans and investments and their borrowing expenses.
Those expenses include interest paid to the Fed for their loans.  To calculate how much banks stood to make, Bloomberg
multiplied their tax-adjusted net interest margins by their
average Fed debt during reporting periods in which they took
emergency loans. The 190 firms for which data were available
would have produced income of $13 billion, assuming all of the
bailout funds were invested at the margins reported, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The calculation by Bloomberg
excluded loans from the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money
Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility because that cash was
passed along to money-market funds.  The Fed says it charges a “penalty rate” that would be
above rates typically seen in a normal market. That rate became
cheaper when borrowing costs surged during the financial crisis.  Bloomberg’s Nov. 28 story contained the following
paragraph: “The Fed says it typically makes emergency loans
more expensive than those available in the marketplace to
discourage banks from abusing the privilege. During the crisis,
Fed loans were among the cheapest around, with funding available
for as low as 0.01 percent in December 2008, according to data
from the central bank and money-market rates tracked by
Bloomberg.”  Editors: Robert Friedman, John Voskuhl  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Bennett at 
 Abennett6@bloomberg.net . 