-- 
Bank of England Starts New Sterling Liquidity Facility as Crisis Escalates

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-12-06T13:23:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/boe-takes-preemptive-step-on-market-strains-with-new-liquidity-facility.html
The  Bank of England  introduced a new
sterling liquidity facility to address potential financial-
market strains as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis intensifies.  The central bank announced the move “in light of the
continuing exceptional stresses in financial markets,” it said
in a statement in London today. “This facility is designed to
mitigate risks to financial stability arising from a market-wide
shortage of short-term sterling liquidity.”  The measure comes a week after the Bank of  England , the
 Federal Reserve  and four other central banks made it cheaper for
banks to borrow dollars in emergencies and agreed to create
temporary bilateral swap programs to provide funding if needed
in each central bank’s currency. The moves indicate officials
are taking preemptive measures in case  Europe ’s debt crisis
escalates further and freezes markets.  Today’s operation is “there as a backstop,”  Brian Hilliard , an economist at Societe Generale SA in London, said in
a telephone interview. “It’s not designed for use at the
moment; it’s for exceptional circumstances which the bank
doesn’t want to occur, but wants to be ready for.”  The Bank of England’s  Extended Collateral Term Repo
Facility  will provide funding against the widest range of
collateral and will help ensure that banks have sufficient
access to sterling liquidity “to mitigate risks arising from
unexpected shocks,” the bank said.  ‘Additional Flexibility’  “There is currently no shortage of short-term sterling
liquidity in the market,” it said. “But should that position
change, the new facility gives the bank additional flexibility
to offer sterling liquidity in an auction format against the
widest range of collateral,” the central bank said.  Today’s move “signals that the bank thinks there is a
reasonable chance” stresses will arise in the sterling money
markets, said Richard Barwell, an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London  and a former Bank of England
official. “It’s wise to be prepared in advance and to let the
market know you are prepared in advance.”  The new facility’s operations will offer sterling for 30
days against collateral currently allowed for use in the bank’s
Discount Window Facility and is open to all banks and building
societies that are signed up to the DWF.  The Bank of England said that operations under the ECTRF
will be announced “at the discretion of the bank to respond to
actual or prospective market-wide stress.”  2012 Funding  U.K. banks have 140 billion pounds ($219 billion) of term
funding due to mature in 2012, concentrated in the first half of
the year, according to the central bank. Short-term money-market
funding conditions have been “fragile over the past few months,
with banks finding it harder to roll over all of their maturing
funding,” it said on Dec. 1  “If current market tensions continue into 2012, replacing
that funding is going to be real struggle, which will put
further pressure on funding costs and deleveraging,” said David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “The
provision of a mechanism to address short-term funding problems
in the financial sector is a positive sign from the bank, but it
will not do a lot for the longer-term issues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  