-- 
BOE Says Capital-Raising Needs Outweigh Risks of Tapping Market

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-12-06T09:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/boe-says-capital-raising-needs-of-banks-outweigh-risks-of-tapping-market.html
The  Bank of England ’s Financial
Policy Committee said the need for banks to raise capital to
strengthen the resilience of the financial system outweighs the
risks associated with entering a “stressed market.”  The FPC made the comments in the record of its Nov. 23
quarterly meeting, where it repeated recommendations published
on Dec. 1 on ways to improve financial stability in light of the
debt crisis in  Europe . One of the recommendations was that banks
“give serious consideration” to raising external capital.  The FPC “recognized that there were risks associated with
attempting to raise fresh external capital in a stressed market
environment,” the report said today in London. “These concerns
were outweighed by the potential benefits of raising additional
capital to the resilience of the system as a whole.”  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  urged banks last week
to enhance efforts to bolster their defenses against the euro
area’s debt turmoil, which now looks like a “systemic crisis.”
The FPC recommended the Financial Services Authority encourage
banks to disclose leverage ratios to investors by the start of
2013, and said that if banks’ earnings aren’t enough to build
capital, they should limit payments of bonuses and dividends.  In today’s record of the meeting, the FPC said that
dividend policy “should be used actively” and it saw a
“strong case for limiting distributions to staff, although this
might not be costless.”  The FPC also noted that encumbrance, or the availability of
assets to unsecured creditors in a default, was rising. It said
heightened uncertainty about encumbrance levels “might have
further contributed to the increase in banks’ unsecured funding
costs and could have hindered primary debt issuance.”  On central counterparties, it said they should have
effective risk-management processes and should introduce “loss-
allocation rules” to provide transparency to CCP participants.  The FPC also said that the impact of higher funding costs
for banks had so far been “relatively muted.” Nevertheless, if
funding stresses persisted, “credit conditions could be
expected to tighten materially in 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  