-- 
BofA Investment Banking Results Improved From Third Quarter, Moynihan Says

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-12-06T21:18:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/bofa-investment-banking-results-improved-from-third-quarter-moynihan-says.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s investment
banking results have improved after trading revenue plunged more
than 70 percent in the third quarter, said Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan .  “We’ve seen better results so far in the fourth quarter
and we’ll see how we finish the year,” Moynihan said today at a
conference in New York. Trading revenue at the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender dropped to $1.07 billion in the three
months ended Sept. 30, excluding an accounting gain, on lower
fixed-income, currency, commodities and equities returns.  Bank of America’s markets division, run by co-Chief
Operating Officer Thomas K. Montag, posted its first loss in the
third quarter since the takeover of Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2009.
Stock and bond markets were roiled by  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of the U.S. government’s debt rating and investor
concerns over deteriorating government finances in  Europe .  European Union leaders will meet this week in the latest
attempt to resolve the continent’s financial crisis. The S&P 500
Index has  gained (SPX)  11 percent since Sept. 30 after plunging 14
percent the prior three months, the biggest drop since 2008.  Surpassing the third quarter “wouldn’t be a hard standard
to overcome,” Moynihan said. “The ebbs and flows of Europe
lock the markets and move the markets around. We’ve still got a
lot of work to do to get back to a relatively normal capital
markets environment.”  Capital Levels  The bank  said  today that its capital levels are “well
above” the minimum required by regulators and will improve this
quarter with the sale of a Canadian card unit and 10.4 billion
shares of China Construction Bank Corp., as well as an exchange
of preferred securities for common stock and senior debt.  Bank of America fell 1 cent to $5.78 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York . The company has dropped by more than 50 percent this year
amid rising costs tied to soured mortgages.  The investment-banking division had trading losses on 20
days in the third quarter, led by a single-day drop of $119
million, compared with three losing days in the second quarter
and a perfect trading record in the first three months of 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 