-- 
BofA to Further Lag Peers in Refinancing, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-12-06T20:19:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/bofa-to-trail-peers-in-refinancing-as-harp-expands-morgan-stanley-says.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , already
lagging its peers, will probably fall further behind in helping
borrowers with little or no home equity to refinance as the U.S.
government loosens rules for the federal  Home Affordable
Refinance Program , according to Morgan Stanley analysts.  Prepayment speeds for the high-rate mortgages serviced by
Bank of America and targeted by HARP are already running at
levels that retire as much as 15 percent less of the debt each
year than similar JPMorgan Chase & Co.-managed loans, the
analysts said in a report. They recommended bets benefiting from
relatively slow refinancing among loans overseen by  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America in their top five 2012
“investment themes” for government-backed mortgage bonds.  Servicers including  JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co .
have “shown remarkable efficiencies around HARP,” the New
York-based Morgan Stanley analysts led by Vipul Jain and Janaki Rao wrote yesterday. “Other servicers like BofA who have not
built that capacity so far are unlikely to do so.”  Bank of America’s participation in the program may
determine how successful the expansion urged by President  Barack Obama  of HARP is, Barclays Capital and Nomura Securities
International Inc. analysts have also said.  The bank, which oversees about a quarter of mortgages
targeted by the initiative, could about double the aggregate
increase in prepayment speeds resulting from HARP changes if it
is “willing to aggressively participate,” Morgan Stanley said.  Helping Homeowners  HARP, which started in 2009, covers loans guaranteed by
government-supported  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . The program’s
revamp, which began this month, is meant to help more homeowners
take advantage of  interest rates  at about  the lowest  on record
by removing restrictions on how much they can owe relative to
their homes’ values, reducing lenders’ risks and cutting fees.  Bank of America has already incorporated the reduced
upfront fees charged on riskier loans by  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac under the HARP expansion into its lending, and “we’re
working really hard on implementing the other guideline changes
as soon as we can,”  Terry Francisco , a spokesman for the
lender, said today. “We’re very committed to HARP 2 and expect
to do at least 100,000 originations under it.”  The bank refinanced about 254,000 mortgages under HARP
before the adjustments, compared with a  reported  total for all
lenders about 900,000, he said. Obama initially projected in
2009 that the initiative could reach 4 million to 5 million.  Flawed Underwriting  Barclays Capital  mortgage-bond analysts, including Derek Chen and Nicholas Strand, said in a Nov. 21 report that “while
Bank of America has the potential” to significantly bolster the
program’s use, “it is unclear why it would change its policy
dramatically under HARP 2.0.”  The lender “is still primarily focused on managing credit
risks rather than increasing production,” and may expose itself
to higher costs from mortgages with flawed underwriting if it
refinances loans originally made by Countrywide Financial Corp.,
a lender it now owns and could potentially put into bankruptcy,
they said.  Mortgage-bond investors often benefit when borrowers with
high-rate loans can’t refinance because their securities trade
for more than face value. When homeowners refinance, the bonds
get repaid at par.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  