-- 
BofA to Settle Mortgage Securities Action for $315 Million

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-12-06T18:49:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/bofa-to-settle-mortgage-securities-class-action-for-315-million.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  reached a
$315 million settlement with a group of investors who sued its
Merrill Lynch unit claiming they were misled about mortgage-
backed securities, according to a court filing.  Holders of the asset-backed certificates sued Merrill Lynch
starting in December 2008 for alleged “false and misleading”
prospectus statements related to the securities, according to
the complaint and a brief filed yesterday in  Manhattan  federal
court.  The investors said that inaccurate statements were made
about qualifications of mortgage-loan borrowers, property
appraisals and debt-to-income ratios of applicants, and that
“the registration statement materially misrepresented the
credit quality of the mortgage loans underlying the
certificates.”  The $315 million will be distributed to certificate holders
who submit valid claim forms, plaintiffs’ lawyers said in court
papers.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, said in a
phone interview that the company had no comment on the
settlement.  Merrill Lynch, bought by Bank of America in 2009, said
investor losses were the result of “the overall economic
downturn, housing-price declines and reduced liquidity,”
according to settlement papers.  Hearing Sought  The investors’ attorneys requested a final hearing on March
21 to approve the settlement.  The litigation included “review and analysis of more than
20 million pages of documents,”  David Stickney , a lawyer for
the investors, said in court papers.  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , fell
4 cents to $5.75 at 1:41 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The lead case is Public Employees’ Retirement System of
Mississippi v. Merrill Lynch & Co., 08-CV-10841, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 