-- 
Bank of Japan’s Dollar-Loan Demand Surges 25 Times as Borrowing Costs Cut

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-12-06T07:51:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/boj-sees-dollar-loan-demand-surge-on-rate-cut.html
Demand for the Bank of Japan’s one-
week dollar loans surged 25 times after six central banks cut
 borrowing costs  for the U.S. currency last week to ease credit
amid  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The BOJ today said it accepted all the bids for its seven-
day dollar loans totaling $25 million, the most since March, and
will charge borrowers a fixed rate of 0.6 percent. That compares
with the total of $1 million in bids to borrow last time it
offered one-week dollar loans at 1.08 percent on Nov. 29.  “The cut in the rate is the reason for the increase in
bids,” said  Shinsuke Kanabu , a project and research director at
Central Tanshi Co., a Tokyo-based money-market dealer and broker.
“Domestic banks have no problem getting dollar funding but
probably wanted to get themselves familiar with the process.”  Central banks, led by the  Federal Reserve , reduced the
premium they charge lenders for dollars on Nov. 30. The new
 interest rate  is the dollar overnight-index swap rate plus 50
basis points, and the program was extended by six months to Feb.
1, 2013, the Fed said on Nov. 30 in a statement. The Fed
coordinated the move with the  European Central Bank  as well as
the Bank of Canada,  Bank of England , BOJ and Swiss National Bank.  Units of overseas banks such as BNP Paribas SA, Societe
Generale SA and Deutsche Bank AG are eligible to borrow dollars
from the BOJ. The one-week  London interbank offered rate  for
dollars was 0.2 percent yesterday.  Central banks are offering rates higher than dollar Libor
because they “don’t want financial companies to rush for their
help,” said Takahiro Sekido, who worked at the BOJ for more
than a decade before becoming chief  Japan  economist in Tokyo at
Credit Agricole CIB. “The central banks’ lending is a last
resort for financial companies because its use may spur rumors
that they have hidden losses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 