-- 
BP Has Road Map in Citgo Oil-Spill Case for Macondo Fine

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-12-06T17:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/bp-has-road-map-in-citgo-case-to-formula-for-oil-spill-fine.html
A Citgo Petroleum Corp.  oil-spill 
case gives a template for the way  BP Plc (BP/) ’s liability and penalty
will be decided in the government’s Clean Water Act lawsuit over
the worst U.S. offshore spill.  U.S. District Judge Richard T. Haik in Lafayette,
Louisiana, ruled Sept. 29 that Citgo must pay $6 million, or
$111 per barrel of oil spilled at its Lake Charles refinery in
2006. That’s about 10 percent of the maximum $1,100 under the
 Clean Water Act . The amount can rise to $4,300 for gross
negligence.  In the BP case, U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New
Orleans will oversee a trial to begin Feb. 27 on fault and on
whether there was gross negligence, which BP denies. Barbier
will use his findings in a later trial on the penalty.  The spill size and BP’s cleanup efforts may keep the
penalty at the low end of the scale, said  Anthony Sabino , a St.
John’s University law professor in  New York .  “When you get into the stratosphere of a half billion, or
$1 billion, that punishment may be unjust by itself,” said
Sabino, a specialist in litigation and oil-and-gas law.  A fine of $111 a barrel would be $455.1 million, using the
government estimate of 4.1 million barrels spilled. The maximum
amount, $1,100, would mean a $4.51 billion penalty; the top
figure for gross negligence, $17.6 billion.  The company declined to comment on the litigation through a
spokesman,  Scott Dean . BP shares closed little changed in  London 
at 465.6 pence.  BP’s Fine Estimate  BP set aside $3.5 billion for  Clean Water Act  fines for the
Macondo spill, assuming $1,100 a barrel and its own estimate of
3.2 million barrels, according to an annual report extract
posted on the company website.  “The actual per-barrel penalty a court may impose, or that
the government might agree to in a settlement, could be lower
than $1,100 per barrel if it were determined that such a lower
penalty was appropriate based on the factors a court is directed
to consider in assessing a penalty,”  BP said .  Barbier by law must weigh eight factors in determining the
penalty. “The company expects to seek assessment of a penalty
lower than $1,100 per barrel based on several of these
factors,” BP said on the website.  They are the seriousness of the violation, the economic
benefit to the company of failing to comply with the law, the
degree of the company’s culpability, other penalties imposed for
the spill, the history of previous violations, efforts to
minimize the effects of the discharge, the economic impact of
the penalty on the violator and “any other matters as justice
may require.”  Refinery’s Benefits  In his finding on the last test, Haik noted that Citgo
employs 1,200 people and said the Lake Charles refinery “is one
of the largest in the nation and its existence has a positive
impact on the state of  Louisiana .”  The $6 million penalty imposed on Citgo, owned by Petroleos
de Venezuela SA, Venezuela’s state-run  oil company , was based on
the company’s figure of 54,000 barrels spilled, 1/76 the size of
the BP spill.  The U.S. claimed Citgo was “guilty of gross negligence and
willful misconduct for its failure to remove the millions of
gallons of waste oil that had accumulated” in tanks for almost
for almost five years before the spill, Haik wrote. The
government is appealing his decision.  The judge found Citgo’s actions or inactions, while clearly
negligent, didn’t “rise to the level of gross negligence or
willful misconduct.”  “Its failures subject it only to those penalties arising
from regular fault,” he wrote.  ‘Good Recovery’  “Although the environment was significantly impacted, the
evidence shows that it has made a good recovery over the
following years,” the judge wrote.  In attacking the spill, Citgo, after early failures, made a
“full force effort to minimize the damage,” Haik ruled. It
used 1,500 people and two cleanup companies and said it spent
$65 million, he wrote.  Eddie Lewis , a lawyer for Citgo, declined to comment on
either spill case, other than to say he expects Haik’s decision
to be upheld. The government filed a notice of appeal Nov. 30.
Jason Barbeau, a  Justice Department  attorney, declined to
comment on it.  Petroleos de Venezuela last year reported $3.2 billion in
profit from $94.9 billion in revenue.  BP spent $17.7 billion last year on the response to the
Macondo spill and has set up a $20 billion compensation fund for
victims. Third-quarter profit was $4.9 billion, and profit for
the 12 months ended Sept. 30 was $23.2 billion.  Middle Ground  Noah Hall , an environmental-law professor at  Wayne State
University  in  Detroit , said the BP penalty probably will be
lower than the maximum allowed and large enough for President
Barack Obama to claim the company has been punished enough.  “It’s the norm that the maximum fines are not imposed,”
Hall said. “The Justice Department won’t seek the maximum,
either.”  David Uhlmann, a University of Michigan law professor,
predicted the government will push for more than $5 billion.  “If the government was willing to accept $1,100 a barrel,
BP would have written a check for that months ago,” said
Uhlmann, a former head of the Justice Department’s
environmental-crimes unit.  “It’s going to be very difficult to convince the judge
that the fine shouldn’t be in the billions of dollars,” he
said.  Maximum Penalty Unlikely  On the possibility of the top gross-negligence fine,
Uhlmann said the government “never receives the maximum civil
penalty in any environmental case. The likelihood they will
obtain $4,300 per barrel is all but nonexistent.”  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and following  explosion 
killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. The accident led to hundreds of lawsuits against
 London-based BP  and its partners and contractors.  Barbier, who is overseeing suits over environmental and
economic loss and personal injuries from the explosion and
spill, was named to the bench by President Bill Clinton. Haik,
the Citgo judge, was appointed by President George H. W. Bush.  The U.S. last year sued BP; Transocean Ltd., the Vernier,
Switzerland-based owner of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig
that exploded; and the minority partners in the well,  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s Moex Offshore LLC unit.  The oil company asked Barbier to exclude evidence in the
liability phase about incidents unrelated to the Macondo well,
including its 2006 oil spill in Prudhoe Bay off  Alaska ’s North
Shore and a 2005 explosion at its  Texas  City, Texas, plant.  Prior Fines  The company paid a $50 million fine for violating the Clean
Air Act in Texas and a $20 million fine after pleading guilty to
a misdemeanor violation of the Clean Water Act in Alaska.  The U.S. asked the judge to allow evidence of prior acts to
help determine “whether BP should be subject to heightened
penalties under the Clean Water Act’s provisions for gross
negligence and willful misconduct.”  BP and the Justice Department may negotiate a settlement,
with the company agreeing to pay $1 billion to $2 billion, said
Hall of Wayne State.  “This is more of a political decision than a legal
decision,” Hall said. “This will probably end in a settlement
with a figure that will allow President Obama to say he hit BP
with the largest civil environmental fine in U.S. history, while
also assuring BP investors.”  The BP case is U.S. v. BP Exploration & Production Inc.,
2:10-cv-04536, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana ( New Orleans ). The case is part of In Re Oil Spill by
the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20,
2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  The Citgo case is U.S. v. Citgo Petroleum Corp., 2:08-
cv-00893, U.S. District Court, Western District of Louisiana
(Lafayette).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London
at   bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 