-- 
BP Sees ‘Growth Potential’ in Argentina After Cnooc Deal Fails

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-12-06T11:53:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/bp-sees-growth-potential-in-argentina-after-cnooc-deal-fails.html
BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley said Argentine crude producer  Pan American  Energy LLC has
“growth potential” after the deal to dispose of BP’s stake
collapsed last month.  “It’s a good venture,” Dudley said in an interview in
Doha, Qatar today. “It’s got growth potential. We would have
closed the deal and sold it, but we were not the ones who pulled
it down.”  BP agreed in 2010 to sell its 60 percent interest in Pan
American to Bridas Corp., equally owned by  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and the
billionaire Bulgheroni family, for $7.1 billion. Bridas said it
pulled out of talks because of “legal issues” and “the manner
in which BP behaved during the transaction and its signing.”  Dudley said BP is sending its management team back to Pan
American and that the company is no longer eager to sell the
stake. The disposal was part of an asset-sale program after the
Gulf of Mexico spill last year. The London-based expolorer has
sold about $20 billion of assets so far and aims to dispose of
about $40 billion of fields, refineries and pipelines.  “We originally set the sale back in 2010, when we needed
to sell,” Dudley said today. “It’s not something that fits
that criteria today.”  BP is preparing to go to trial in the U.S. in February over
the accident at the Macondo well that caused the worst  oil spill 
in U.S. history, Dudley said. The company has set aside $40
billion to pay for the disaster.  Dudley said finding new oil may be the energy industry’s
greatest challenge over the next few decades in his speech at
the World Petroleum Congress. Failing to follow the
“exploration imperative” would lead to shortages, poverty and
conflict, he said.  Dudley reiterated the company’s plans in the interview.  “We had an interest in six exploration wells in 2011 and
will double this to 12 in 2012,” Dudley said. “We will get
back to exploring and I would expect in 2013 that number will
increase even further. That’s a lot.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  