-- 
Brazil’s Economy Contracts as Rousseff Cuts Taxes, Rates to Boost Demand

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-12-06T17:08:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/brazil-economy-stalls-as-rousseff-acts-to-boost-gdp-in-face-of-euro-crisis.html
Brazil ’s economy shrank in the third
quarter, prompting the government to slash its growth forecast
for the year, one week after announcing stimulus measures to
contain the spillover from Europe’s debt crisis.  Gross domestic product contracted 0.04 percent from the
previous three months, the national statistics agency said, as
credit curbs, higher borrowing costs and budget cuts checked
demand. The contraction, the first since the first quarter of
2009, is equivalent to an annualized decline of 0.17 percent.  As Europe’s crisis deepens, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
government is trying to reinvigorate the economy with a mix of
tax cuts, interest rate reductions and looser bank lending
requirements. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  cut his growth
forecast for this year to 3.2 percent from 3.8 percent, while
maintaining his target of as much as 5 percent for 2012.  “The stimulus will prevent the economy from decelerating
too drastically, but it won’t drive fast economic growth like
Mantega wants,” said Enestor Dos Santos, senior Brazil
economist for BBVA in  Madrid , who forecasts 3.6 percent for
2012. As the global environment deteriorates, “five percent
growth isn’t feasible.”  The annualized fall in GDP was led by a 3.4 percent
contraction in industry and a 1.06 percent decline in services.
Agriculture expanded at an annualized pace of 13.56 percent,
while a 7.41 percent jump in exports prevented a deeper
contraction.  ‘Technical Recession’  The strength of exports is unlikely to be sustained with
 China ’s economy slowing and Europe falling into recession, said
 Neil Shearing , an emerging markets economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London .  “Brazil looks like it’s destined to enter a technical
recession,” Shearing said in a phone interview. “This presents
an opportunity to policy makers to get rates into single-digit
territory and keep them there.”  The central bank has cut its benchmark interest rate three
times since August, pushing it to 11 percent. The government
also stepped in last week to defend growth, slashing 2.8 billion
reais ($1.6 billion) in taxes, including levies on goods such as
flour, wheat, bread and pasta, as well as on foreign purchases
of stocks and bonds.  Prevent Contagion  Brazil will underperform its emerging market peers this
year, according to  International Monetary Fund  estimates. GDP
will grow 3.8 percent, while  emerging markets  and China will
expand 6.4 percent and 9.5 percent respectively, the IMF said in
its September World Economic Outlook. The U.S. will grow 1.6
percent.  The third-quarter contraction “has little to do with the
international crisis and more with the delayed impact of
monetary tightening and credit curbs,” Flavio Serrano, senior
economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo , said
in a phone interview.  Policy makers  raised  interest rates five times this year
through July, while the federal government slashed 50 billion
reais from its 2011 budget. Brazil also raised taxes in April on
consumer loans, a move they reversed this month.  Serrano expects the economy to expand 3.5 percent to 4
percent in 2012, with growth picking up in the third and fourth
quarters as the delayed effects of falling  interest rates  and a
14 percent increase in the minimum wage boost consumer demand.  Weakening Real  Brazil’s real has sank 12 percent against the dollar since
June 30 through yesterday’s close, as investors fled higher-
yielding emerging-market assets on concern  Greece  would default
on its debt and stall the world´s economy. The Bovespa stock
index dropped 5.6 percent in the period, extending its decline
for the year to 15 percent. Brazil’s real-denominated bonds have
gained 7 percent this year in dollar terms, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compared with an average return of
0.7 percent in emerging-market bonds.  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due January
2013 fell six basis points to 9.77 percent at 2:03 p.m. Brasilia
time. The real declined 0.5 percent to 1.7950 per dollar.  The global slowdown has sapped demand for emerging-market
assets, prompting companies to delay plans for investment. Sao
Paulo-based beef producer Minerva SA won’t sell bonds until the
global outlook improves, Chief Financial Officer Edison Ticle
told reporters on Dec. 5. “The scenario is still very
volatile,” Ticle said. “We’d rather wait to get a clearer
picture.”  Hit the Hardest  Industrial output was the part of the economy hit the
hardest by the deepening debt crisis in  Europe , posting in
September the second-biggest decline since the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. Production sank 1.9
percent in September and 0.6 percent in October, according to
the national statistics agency, as manufacturers were already
reeling from a 46 percent rally in the real against the dollar
from the end of 2008 through August, the most among major
emerging markets.  Brazil’s “robust” jobs market will help the economy
rebound, said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLb
SA, in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. Unemployment
declined to 5.8 percent in October, a record low for that month.  “We’ve seen quite a good flow in stores this Christmas
season,” said Luca Luciani, chief executive officer of Rio de
Janeiro-based  Tim Participacoes SA (TCSL4) , Brazil’s second-biggest
wireless operator.  Brazil is growing at a pace consistent with meeting its 4.5
percent inflation target next year, central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said today in a statement on the bank’s
website. The rate of price increases, as measured by the
benchmark IPCA-15 index, slowed to 6.69 percent in the 12 months
through mid-November, the slowest pace in five months, the
national statistics agency said. Since April, inflation has
remained above the 6.5 percent upper limit of the target range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  