-- 
Brazil Real Snaps Seven-Day Winning Streak as GDP Growth Stalls

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-12-06T20:31:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/brazil-rate-futures-little-changed-as-growth-stalls-real-drops.html
Brazil ’s real fell for the first day
in eight after a report showed growth in  Latin America ’s largest
economy stalled, adding to concern the European debt crisis is
hampering the global economic recovery.  The real weakened 0.3 percent to 1.7915 per  U.S. dollar  at
6:16 p.m. in Sao Paulo, from 1.7859 yesterday. Yields on the
interest-rate futures contract due January 2013 fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 9.81 percent, after
climbing 20 basis points in the past three days of trading.  The real declined after Standard & Poor’s said it may cut
the credit ratings of 15 euro nations and data showed Brazil’s
gross domestic product failed to grow in the third quarter from
the previous three months, the first quarter without expansion
since the first three months of 2009. The European debt crisis
and stagnant growth figures helped weaken the real as investors
speculated demand for Brazilian commodities will wane, said
Carlos Kawall, chief economist at Banco J. Safra SA.  “The GDP number had a negative bias,” he said in a
telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “The scenario abroad is
getting worse.”  Credit curbs, higher borrowing costs and budget cuts
checked demand in the third quarter, reducing Brazil’s annual
rate of growth to 2.1 percent, less than the 2.4 percent median
estimate of 44 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Industrial output was hit by  Europe ’s debt crisis, falling
in September at the second-fastest rate since the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. Production sank 1.9
percent in September and 0.6 percent in October, the national
statistics agency said today.  Weaker Demand  Manufacturers were already reeling from a 46 percent rally
in the real against the dollar from the end of 2008 through
August.  “I was struck by all the components of demand falling,”
 Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview. “If it hadn’t
been for the good performance in agriculture, quarterly GDP
would have contracted.”  Brazil Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the main
government strategy to shore up economic growth is to make
credit cheaper. Mantega also told reporters in Brasilia the
government won’t increase spending to foster economic growth
amid the euro debt crisis.  ‘Sustained Cycle of Expansion’  Brazil’s third-quarter gross domestic product figures show
Latin America’s biggest economy is growing at a pace consistent
with the 2012 inflation target, central bank President Alexandre Tombini said.  Brazil’s economy is in a “sustained cycle of expansion,”
Tombini said in a statement posted today on the bank’s website.  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday it may cut the credit
ratings of  Germany ,  France  and 13 other members of the euro,
prompting investors to flee higher-yielding assets. The
countries’ ratings may be cut depending on the result of a
summit of European leaders Dec. 9, S&P said.  “We’re in a crucial moment for Europe,” Kawall said.
“It’s better to relax fiscal policy through tax reductions than
by increasing spending.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  