-- 
Brazil Signals It Can’t Commit to Binding Emissions Target in Durban

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-06T11:36:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/brazil-signals-it-can-t-commit-to-binding-emissions-target-in-durban.html
Brazil signaled it’s not prepared to
sign up to a road map leading to a legally-binding carbon
emissions target at United Nations talks in  South Africa , a key
demand the European Union is making at the meeting.  Latin America ’s second biggest greenhouse gas emitter after
 Mexico  is open to devising a timeline for a future climate
change deal without prejudging what legal form the pact might
take, said Brazilian envoy Luiz Alberto Figueiredo.  “We have no problem in looking at a timeline that will
take us from here to there engaging in that kind of exercise,”
Figueiredo said today in an interview in Durban, South Africa.
“The structure of that post-2020 framework will be solved in
the negotiations.”  The debate over the EU’s proposal is one of the main
sticking points at the talks in Durban that conclude on Dec. 9.
Developing nations led by  Brazil  and China want the current
treaty limiting emissions, the  Kyoto Protocol , to be extended
beyond 2012. The EU says it won’t renew Kyoto unless all nations
say when they’d take on mandatory carbon targets.  Asked if Brazil could accept a future agreement that set
binding emissions targets for all nations, Figueiredo said,
“It’s fine, if that’s the result of the negotiation, fine. I
cannot simply say now that we will agree with that if we don’t
know now what will be the conditions.”  China's Plan  Chinese delegation chief Xie Zhenhua yesterday told
reporters his country could accept a binding deal after 2020
provided five conditions were met, including a second-commitment
period of Kyoto. EU Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said
more clarifications are needed from  China   Hedegaard in a post on Twitter after her meeting with China
wrote, “sometimes messages are more progressive at public press
conferences than in negotiation rooms.”  Brazil’s envoy also said that failure to secure a second
commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol in Durban would endanger
the UN’s Clean Development Mechanism, a carbon offset market
that helps companies to meet their emissions targets through
investing in carbon-cutting projects in the developing world.  Without emissions targets, “the CDM unfortunately loses
its purpose and we’re very concerned about,” Figueiredo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  