-- 
Brooklyn Gourmets Battle Old-Style New Yorkers for Fine Pizzas

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-12-06T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/brooklyn-gourmets-battle-old-style-villagers-for-fine-n-y-pizzas-review.html
Pizza may be a sloppy slab of comfort
food, tomato sauce dripping onto your shirt, mozzarella dangling
before swinging loose across your chin. Or it may be a gourmet
option with the finest ingredients.  It’s no surprise both styles are available in  New York .  At Franny’s, in  Brooklyn , pizza is finger food for the
discerning diner. Owners Francine Stephens and Andrew Feinberg
emphasize sustainable agriculture and renewable energy. By
contrast, John’s Pizzeria in  Greenwich Village  is a traditional
joint where the rules are: No slices, no credit cards.  Franny’s develops long-term relationships with farmers and
other suppliers, which are  listed on the website : The grass-fed
organic beef is from  Grazin’ Angus Acres ; the wild herbs,
mushrooms and flowers are foraged in  New England  by Evan
Strusinski of Forgive Me My Trespasses, Wild Edibles.  Feinberg, who is also a chef, says he focuses on a minimum
number of excellent ingredients for each dish. The Argentine-
born general manager, Martin Gobbee, was formerly head maitre d’
at  Del Posto  and the service is efficient and friendly.  (Cesar Ramirez, whose Chef’s Table at Brooklyn Fare holds
three Michelin stars, didn’t hesitate when asked for a lunch
recommendation in Brooklyn: “I love Franny’s,” he said. “It’s
very seasonal, very organic. They care about their ingredients.)  The room is plain, with wooden floors and bare-brick walls.
There is a bar on your left as you enter and the kitchen on show
at the far end. You may have plenty of time to look around
because Franny’s doesn’t accept reservations. When you do make
it to the table, you’re offered tap water and you may be
tempted, as I was, by cocktails such as L’Eva: Apple-infused
 Bulleit Bourbon , Amaro Montenegro and fresh lemon juice ($13).  Wild Mushrooms  There are about a dozen appetizers, three pasta dishes and
10 pizzas. I started with a special ($20) of wood-roasted wild
mushrooms (including matsutakes, porcini) with gremolata
(chopped parsley and garlic with lemon) that was exceptional in
the purity and depth of its flavors. I’d have been happy to be
served it in the fanciest of restaurants.  Chef Jonathan Adler’s resume features Blue Hill at Stone
Barns, Arzak in  Spain , Le Manoir and St. John in the U.K., all
of which are indeed fine restaurants. The pizzas are
exceptional, with the crispest of thin bases and beautiful
toppings. I tried the white pizza -- no tomato -- with ricotta,
buffalo mozzarella, garlic, oregano and hot peppers ($17) and
may have to return to Brooklyn one day to sample some others.  With a Spice of Life Series “Warrior” beer from Sixpoint
Craft Ales, Brooklyn, my bill was $62.  Rating: **.  Bleecker Street  If Franny’s represents a modern approach to a traditional
dish, John’s Pizzeria of Bleecker Street, harks back to an
earlier, less complicated age. It was founded at the same
location in 1929 and serves coal-fired brick-oven pizza, the
bases suitably charred and with a wide choice of toppings.  You’re likely to have to line up outside, and when you
reach your table, there is little waiting. Pizzas are $12 for 14
inches and $14 for 16, with toppings at $2 a pop. Order a pizza
and a beer and there’s no need to spend more than $30. I ordered
so many toppings, the pizza couldn’t support the weight.
Families and children are welcome: They probably make less mess.  The walls are plastered with posters and other surfaces
filled with carvings, the rock ‘n’ roll music is alarm-clock
loud (80 decibels) and the service tends to be brusque in a way
some people find charming.  While it’s not exactly my style of dining, the line outside
shows John’s has no shortage of fans after 80 years. Now that’s
what I call a sustainable restaurant.  Rating: *.  Franny’s is at 295 Flatbush Avenue. Information:
+1-718-230-0221;  http://www.frannysbrooklyn.com/ . John’s is at
278 Bleecker Street. Information: +1-212-243-0450;
 http://www.johnsbrickovenpizza.com/about.html .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
Richardvines on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 