-- 
Bulgarian Bad Loans Covered by Adequate Capital, Iskrov Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-12-06T18:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/bulgarian-bad-loans-covered-by-adequate-capital-iskrov-says-1-.html
Bulgaria ’s increasing bad loans are
covered by high provisions and capital and the bank system is
“performing well” amid faltering economic recovery, central
bank Governor Ivan Iskrov said.  Bulgaria’s banking system generates profit, which provides
“additional capital buffers,” Iskrov said in a speech in Sofia
today. Loans more than 90 days past due rose to around 14
percent of total lending at the end of September, he said. The
capital adequacy ratio of the banking system is 18 percent and
the liquidity ratio is 26 percent, while deposits increased 13
percent in year in October, he said.  “With these indicators Bulgaria’s banks are among the few
in the European Union that didn’t have to be bailed out with
taxpayers’ money,” Iskrov said. “The central bank’s
conservative supervision policy encouraged banks to accumulate
adequate capital and liquidity buffers. The bank system is
performing well.”  Bulgaria, the EU’s poorest country in terms of economic
output per capita, weathered the global crisis without borrowing
from international lenders. The country aims to narrow next
year’s budget gap to 1.35 percent of gross domestic product from
2 percent this year, in an effort to contain the impact from the
euro area’s sovereign debt crisis.  Slowing Growth  Bulgaria’s credit demand will decline next year as economic
recovery slows, Iskrov said. The EU cut Bulgaria’s 2012 economic
growth forecast to 2.3 percent from 3.6 percent, while the
government calculated next year’s budget on a 1 percent growth
assumption to compensate for declining exports to the EU. The
 economy  expanded 1.6 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, the statistics office said today.  EU-based lenders control 85 percent of banking assets in
the Balkan nation. The five biggest banks are UniCredit Bulbank;
DSK Bank, a unit of  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) ,  Hungary ’s largest bank;
United Bulgarian Bank, owned by  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) ;
Raiffeisenbank Bulgaria and Eurobank EFG Bulgaria.  The market share of Bulgarian-based banks may continue
increasing next year as foreign lenders restructure their
ownership in the region, Iskrov said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  