-- 
Cablevision Sues Verizon Over Claims in Advertisements for Internet Speeds

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-12-07T03:02:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/cablevision-sues-verizon-over-claims-in-internet-speed-advertisements.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the fifth-
largest U.S. cable-television provider by subscribers, sued
Verizon Communications Inc. for allegedly running an advertising
campaign that misrepresents Cablevision’s Internet speeds.  The TV, radio, direct-mail and Internet spots claim that a
“just released” Federal Communications Commission study shows
Cablevision delivers at most 59 percent of its advertised speeds
during peak hours, according to the complaint filed today in
federal court in  Brooklyn ,  New York .  “The FCC report cited in Verizon’s ads reported the
results of speed tests performed in March 2011,” Bethpage, New
York-based Cablevision said in its complaint. “Cablevision has
made significant upgrades to its broadband network in 2011 that
render the March 2011 results obsolete.”  The FCC issued a public announcement that Cablevision’s
results in the August report on the March tests are outdated,
Cablevision said. Cablevision is asking the court to force
Verizon to pull the ads and to award unspecified damages.  Verizon’s ads are based on the FCC’s months-long study of
Internet speeds released in August, said Bill Kula, a spokesman
for the New York-based company.  “In terms of the accuracy of its advertising, Cablevision
was the worst,” Kula said in an e-mailed statement. “Verizon
will defend Cablevision’s lawsuit vigorously to ensure that
consumers continue to receive truthful information about
Cablevision’s misleading Internet speed claims.”  Verizon is the second-biggest U.S. phone company. The case
was assigned to a judge in  Central Islip , New York.  The case is Cablevision Systems Corp. v.  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , 11-cv-5934, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of New York (Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 