-- 
California, Nevada Join Forces in Mortgage Fraud Probes

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-12-06T22:52:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/california-nevada-join-forces-in-investigation-of-mortgage-fraud-at-banks.html
California  and Nevada will jointly
investigate mortgage fraud, as attorneys general across the U.S.
continue negotiating a possible settlement with banks to resolve
probes into their foreclosure practices.  California Attorney General Kamala Harris and Catherine Cortez Masto, Nevada’s Attorney General, announced today at a
press conference in Los Angeles that they will share litigation
strategies, information and evidence.  The cooperation is designed to speed investigations of
wrongdoing in mortgage loan origination, servicing, and
securitization, Harris said. Because Nevada and California are
“non-judicial foreclosure states,” foreclosures on homeowners
behind on mortgage payments can be completed in nine months, she
said. One in 243 homes in California, and one in every 180
Nevada homes has entered the foreclosure process, Harris said.  Harris didn’t name the banks that were the focus of the
investigation. “We’ll see what the investigation unfolds,” she
said. Bank of America was given a subpoena on Oct. 18 seeking
information related to the packaging and sale of mortgage-backed
securities, said a person familiar with the matter who wasn’t
authorized to discuss it and didn’t want to be identified.  State attorneys general across the U.S. have been
negotiating a possible settlement with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
Ally Financial Inc. that would resolve a probe into foreclosure
practices of the five biggest mortgage servicers. The probe,
which had involved attorneys general from all 50 states, began
more than a year ago after disclosures that faulty documents
were being used to seize homes.  U.S. Negotiations  State and federal officials are aiming to reach a deal that
would provide mortgage relief to homeowners and set requirements
for how mortgage servicers conduct home foreclosures and
interact with borrowers.  Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, declined to comment on today’s announcement of a joint
probe by California and Nevada.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for
New York-based Citigroup, and JPMorgan spokesman Tom Kelly
declined to immediately comment. Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for
Detroit-based  Ally Financial , also declined to comment.  Shirley Norton , a Bank of America spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  In September, Harris said she was withdrawing from the
nationwide talks, saying a proposed settlement was
“inadequate” and would allow too few California homeowners to
stay in their homes. Harris said then she would instead pursue
her own mortgage investigation in the most populous state.  Massachusetts Lawsuit  Last week, Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley 
sued the five banks, accusing them of conducting unlawful
foreclosures and deceiving homeowners.  In a statement today, Coakley said she will work
“cooperatively” with California and Nevada and that she
supports their efforts to “move forward with comprehensive
investigations into the illegal and deceptive foreclosure
practices of the national banks.”  Masto said today she was waiting to see what the terms of
nationwide settlement with the five banks are before deciding
whether  Nevada  will also opt out. She said the negotiations are
“not going to hinder us from doing what we have to do on behalf
of homeowners in our state.”  In August, Masto asked a U.S. judge to terminate a
settlement with Bank of America over home-loan modifications
tied to its Countrywide mortgage unit, saying the company hadn’t
complied with terms of the accord. Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America seeks to dismiss the claim, according to a
Dec. 1 court filing.  “This crisis is causing great havoc on the economy of
Nevada,” Masto said today. “Neighborhoods are descending into
blight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  