-- 
Canadian Canola Stockpiles to Plunge as Use Surges to a Record

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-12-06T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/canadian-canola-stockpiles-to-plunge-as-use-surges-to-a-record.html
Canada ’s canola stockpiles in the
second half of 2011 will be reduced as exports and processing in
the marketing year through July will reach a record, according
to Hamburg-based researcher Oil World.  Stockpiles will fall 40 percent to 1.1 million metric tons,
Oil World said today in a report. The amount of the oilseed
processed will rise 5.7 percent this year and shipments will
total 7.7 million tons, up 6.9 percent, the researcher said.
China has increased imports of canola as domestic output falls
and processing facilities open in the Asian country, according
to the report.  “Record canola exports and crushings will squeeze Canadian
canola supplies in the second half of this season,” Oil World
said. “Exports were again unusually high in October. Chinese
import requirements have increased due to reduced domestic
production and the recent opening of four new crushing plants.”  The price of canola traded on ICE Futures Canada has
dropped 14 percent this year, partly on speculation that
slumping economies in the European Union and U.S. will curb
demand for raw materials used to make food.  Oil World raised its estimate for Canadian exports and
processing to 14.4 million tons in the year through July,
according to the report. Canola exports from Canada from August
through November increased 9 percent and processing, or
crushing, gained 8 percent, Oil World said. Production in the
year through July will gain 5.3 percent from the prior 12 months
to 13.8 million tons, according to the report.  Canadian production may have to rise as high as 15 million
tons next year to a record to satisfy prospective world demand
in the 2012-13 marketing year, Oil World said.  “Attractive canola prices will be needed in January
through April 2012 to stimulate a further expansion of plantings
to accomplish an increase in Canadian canola production,” the
researcher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 