-- 
Canada’s Dollar Appreciates as Bank of Canada Carney Highlights Growth

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-12-06T22:31:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/canada-s-dollar-appreciates-as-bank-of-canada-carney-highlights-growth.html
Canada ’s dollar rose for a second day
after  Bank of Canada  policy makers said growth in the domestic
and U.S. economy is stronger than forecast, easing speculation
the central bank would signal further monetary easing.  Canada’s currency erased a decline after the central bank
kept its main  interest rate  unchanged at 1 percent. Although
Europe’s widening debt crisis is raising risks to the global
economy, there is “considerable monetary stimulus” in Canada
with interest rates near historic lows and the financial system
“functioning well,” policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney 
said in a statement from Ottawa today.  “There was an expectation in the market of a more dovish
statement, but we got nearly a carbon copy of the last decision,
which is supportive of the Canadian dollar,” said  Stewart Hall ,
senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto.
“The Canadian economy has been better than expected, and the
domestic profile augurs for a policy leaning toward a neutral
policy footing rather than one that continues monetary
stimulus.”  Canada’s currency appreciated 0.6 percent to C$1.0100 per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after falling as much as 0.4
percent. One Canadian dollar buys 99.01 U.S. cents.  All 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the
central bank would hold rates steady.  The loonie has been the second-best performer after the yen
in the past month against the U.S. dollar among the most-traded
currencies, gaining 0.3 percent, as investors sought refuge from
the European crisis without the risk of U.S. budget deficits and
political deadlock.  ‘On Hold’  Canada’s economy is growing at 3 percent, twice the average
pace of Group of Seven and euro-area nations.  “The bottom line is that they are on hold and it will take
more weakness domestically to change their tune, and this is
giving support to the Canadian dollar” said  Michael Gregory , a
senior economist in Toronto at Bank of Montreal, the nation’s
fourth largest bank. “They are no closer to easing rates.”  European leaders have spent two years struggling to prevent
contagion from affecting the region’s largest economies. Germany
and  France  risk losing their AAA credit ratings in a review of
15 euro nations for possible downgrades,  Standard & Poor’s  said
yesterday.  Yields on 10-year Government of Canada bonds rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.13 percent.  “The recession in Europe is now expected to be more
pronounced than the Bank had anticipated in October,” Bank of
Canada policy makers said in the statement. “There is
considerable monetary policy stimulus in Canada,” the bank
said, echoing its Oct. 25 decision when policy makers removed a
reference to the need for paring monetary stimulus.  ‘Fair Value’  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc suggested that investors
unwind a Nov. 3 trade recommendation to bet the euro would
decline against the loonie. The Canadian dollar has strengthened
2.8 percent versus the euro since the call.  “The divergence from our ‘fair value’ estimate is so wide
we can no longer justify the position,” Robert Sinche, global
head of currency strategy at RBS in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , wrote
in a report today.  Carney will be the only central bank leader in the Group of
10 countries to raise interest rates next year, according to
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg News. Inflation has exceeded the
bank’s 2 percent target for 11 months as the economy grows at
double the pace of the G-7 nations.  Policy Statement  A measure of price pressures -- the three-month, seasonally
adjusted annualized inflation rate that excludes food and energy
-- has accelerated to 3.2 percent in October, the fastest since
2003, signaling a growing momentum in consumer price increases.  The bank today said it would “continue to monitor
carefully economic and financial developments,” and “set
monetary policy consistent with achieving the 2 percent
inflation target over the medium term,” repeating language it
used in October.  “Going forward, the weaker external outlook is expected to
dampen GDP growth in Canada through financial, confidence and
trade channels,” the bank said today. The statement also
reiterated Carney’s comment last month that the economy would
return to full capacity “well into 2013,” a slight change from
the October prediction that full output would resume by the end
of that year.  “Canada is in a unique position in that they are less
exposed to  Europe  and  China  and more heavily reliant on the
U.S.,”  Kathy Lien , director of currency research at the online
trading firm GFT Forex in  New York  wrote in a note to clients.
That the Bank of Canada “did not even hint about the
possibility of lower interest rates was enough to send the
Canadian dollar sharply higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  