-- 
Carbon Credits Becoming ‘Junk’ Before 2013 Ban Closes Door: Energy Markets

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-07T17:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/carbon-credits-becoming-junk-before-2013-ban-closes-door-energy-markets.html
Investors are rushing to sell some
United Nations emission credits before they become almost
worthless in 2013, pushing prices to a record low.  With Europe set to stop recognizing credits for projects
that destroy industrial gases known as hydrofluorocarbon-23 and
nitrous oxide in little more than a year, holders are “racing
to beat” the ban, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. A
UN program that encourages reductions in the industrial gases
awarded almost twice as many credits for them this year as in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They account for
about two-thirds of all so-called Certified Emission Reductions
supplied by the UN-managed program.  Enel SpA,  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  and  Solvay SA (SOLB) ’s
Rhodia unit are among investors in projects from Mexico to China
and India that will lose their biggest market for emission
credits as the European Union, home of the world’s largest cap-
and-trade system, phases out so-called offsets it has linked to
“windfall” profits that undermine the market’s integrity.
Emissions-trading systems in Australia and  New Zealand  also will
forbid so-called industrial-gas credits, compounding a glut that
sent prices for the credits to an all-time low last month.  “It’ll be a junk market” for the banned credits, Geoff Sinclair, London-based head of carbon trading at Standard Bank
Plc, said in an interview in Singapore. After 2013, nobody will
buy industrial-gas credits and countries that have yet to rule
them out, such as New Zealand, are preparing to do so, he said.  Record Low  Prices for Certified Emission Reductions, known as CERs,
for December delivery settled today at 4.90 euros ($6.57) a
metric ton on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange, the lowest
closing price since they began trading in 2008. The credits have
lost 80 percent from their peak of 25 euros in July 2008.  The discount of EU-banned credits for 2012 over those
accepted in 2013, traded as a separate contract, widened 12
percent to 48 cents.  HFC-23 and N2O projects have racked up about 500 million
CERs valued at more than 2.5 billion euros at today’s prices.
Developers received 144 million CERs in 2011, including those
that will still be accepted in the EU system. That compares with
78 million in 2010 and 82.8 million in 2009, according to UN
data. The projects stand to earn at least 150 million credits by
the end of 2012, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Supply in 2011 may surpass 300 million tons this year and
next under the UN-run emissions credit market, from 132 million
last year, said  Trevor Sikorski , a London-based analyst at
Barclays Capital. It will keep rising in 2012, he said.  “Next year is another difficult one for the carbon
market” Sikorski said in an interview in Singapore. “It looks
a heavily supplied year.”  Last Resort  The UN market, known as the Clean Development Mechanism,
was set up by the 1997 Kyoto Protocol as a way of letting richer
nations offset their emissions at home by paying for cleaner
technology in  emerging markets . Investors in these projects get
CERs that they can sell to companies and governments with
pollution caps. While the EU is the largest market for UN
offsets, Australia will allow emitters to use CERs for as much
as half of their emissions starting in 2015.  Envoys from 190 nations are meeting this week in Durban,
 South Africa , to discuss climate rules. A failure to get a
second compliance period to follow the Kyoto Protocol would be a
“new low” for the UN program, Sikorski said.  Industrial-gas credits may eventually find buyers in  Japan ,
which is planning to set up bilateral emissions trading with
other countries. Still, the ban on these credits may be extended
to the governments of 38 nations with emissions targets under
the Kyoto Protocol, the European Commission said in a Nov. 14
 statement . That would remove the only remaining markets for
industrial-gas credits after 2013.  Environmental Poison  HFC-23 and NO2 are so damaging to the environment that they
should be banned outright and not entitled to get emission
credits, the EU and other governments have said. HFC-23 can trap
11,700 times more heat per molecule than carbon dioxide and
remain in the atmosphere for over 200 years, according to the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  Giuseppe Deodati, head of carbon strategy at Enel SpA,
declined to comment last month on how it would sell industrial
gas CERs after 2013. Enel is the largest private investor in
HFC-23 projects, with stakes in seven of 19 projects globally,
according to data compiled by the UN Environment Program’s Risoe
Centre.  Roop Salotra, chief executive of the chemicals business at
 SRF Ltd. (SRF) , which is set to earn 52 million CERs from its HFC-23-
destroying project in Rajasthan, India, by 2020, declined to
respond to an e-mail from Bloomberg.  Forward Contracts  Some industrial-gas projects have sold credits to be
created after 2012 through forward contracts, according to
Vishwajit Dahanukar, managing director of Managing Emissions, a
Mumbai-based broker. The contracts have a clause saying the CERs
to be generated must be compliant with the EU’s Emissions
Trading System, he said.  “The buyers for these CERs are typically companies that
are large compliance buyers and they wouldn’t expose themselves
to that kind of risk,” Dahanukar said.  At least 11 publicly traded companies own projects that
reduce emissions of HFC-23 or N2O, according to UN project
documents. They include a plant set up by Rhodia in Brazil, a
facility in Mexico started by a joint venture between Honeywell
and  Cydsa SAB (CYDSASAA) , and at least 10 other projects owned by China’s
 Zhejiang Juhua Co. (600160)  and  Dongyue Group (189)  and India’s  Rashtriya
Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. (RCF) , SRF Ltd.,  Chemplast Sanmar Ltd. (CPI) ,
 Gujarat Fluorochemicals  Ltd. (GFLC) , Navin Flourine,  Hindustan
Fluorocarbons Ltd. (HFC)  and  Deepak Fertilizers & Petrochemicals Corp. (DFPC)   Closing Door  “There’s an oversupply situation driving prices down even
as demand remains weak and uncertain,” said  Henry Derwent , head
of the International Emissions Trading Association, in an
interview in Singapore. “The door to HFC credits has closed
just about everywhere.”  The EU also is introducing geographic restrictions on
offsets in its market. From 2013, it will accept new offsets
only from projects based in least-developed countries. That will
exclude  China  and India, which are set to supply 88 percent of
all CERs to be generated to 2012, according to the Roskilde,
Denmark-based Risoe Center.  Chinese producers are threatening to release the gas back
into the atmosphere if they can’t find a way to sell credits,
Xie Fei, revenue management director at the state-run China
Clean Development Mechanism Fund, said in a Nov. 3 interview.  The industry is counting on new domestic emissions-trading
systems planned in Australia, South Korea, Japan and China, said
Xuedu Lu, adviser to the Asian Development Bank and a former
Chinese climate negotiator.  “Some people say just scale up supply and there will be
new carbon markets,” he said. “This is totally wrong. If
there’s no demand, your supply has nowhere to go.”  Price Lows  CER prices may extend their slump as the credits flood the
market, according to Assaad Razzouk, chief executive officer of
Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Group, a developer of clean-
energy projects that is partly owned by Citigroup Inc. and
Cargill Inc.  “The price impact would be that they would still have a
market but would sell at significantly less,” Razzouk said.  The prospect of lower prices and dwindling buyers is
weighing on Indian companies, which are increasingly reluctant
to register new projects with the UN program, said Anmol Singh Jaggi, director of Gensol Consultants Pvt. in Ahmedabad,  India ,
which advises and brokers carbon projects. Filings that
developers need to submit before registering projects are down
by 50 percent since last year, he said.  “New registrations may be up because the UN is working
overtime to process them before the cutoff, but people have
stopped trying to register new projects,” Jaggi said. “What’s
the point? If I start now, I won’t be able to finish in time.”  There is a “massive push” to register as many projects as
possible before the end of 2012 in order to qualify for EU ETS
eligibility, said Richard Chatterton, analyst for Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. It’s increasingly unlikely that these projects
will get through in time, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in New Delhi at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  