-- 
Carillion Hires Lease-Breaker SPS to Reduce U.K. Liabilities

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-12-06T13:08:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/carillion-hires-lease-breaker-sps-to-reduce-u-k-liabilities.html
Carillion Plc (CLLN) , the British
construction and services company, will transfer responsibility
for unused offices across the U.K. to Surplus Property Solutions
Ltd. in a deal valued at tens of millions of pounds.  Surplus Property Solutions , or SPS, will take over the risk
and responsibility for Carillion’s leases on 330,000 square feet
(30,700 square meters) of offices, the Glasgow-based company
said today in a statement. It didn’t specify how many properties
were transferred.  Companies like SPS take on liabilities from leaseholders
and try to reduce them as quickly and as cheaply as possible for
an upfront fee that covers only part of the total. The companies
keep whatever is left over once they have disposed of the
surplus leases.  “This deal with SPS has, in a single transaction, enabled
us to refocus our resources on our operational estate,” Andrew
Thexton-Pee, a senior estate surveyor at Carillion, said in the
statement.  Carillion, based in Wolverhampton, will pay SPS an
unspecified amount to cover some of the liabilities connected
with rented offices it no longer needs, including rent,
insurance, tax and maintenance costs for the properties. SPS
didn’t say whether it guaranteed that the liabilities won’t
return to Carillion.  Provisions totaling 30.4 million pounds ($48 million) in
2009 and 2010 were made by Carillion to cover the costs of
leasing properties that were no longer used, according to its
 2010 annual report . The company is consolidating its U.K.
construction business following the acquisitions of Alfred
McAlpine, Mowlem and Vanbots Group.  Real estate broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc. advised
Carillion and  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  acted for SPS. Law firms
Ashurst LLP and MacRoberts LLP advised Carillion, while Berwin
Leighton Paisner LLP and Brodies LLP were SPS’s advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 