-- 
Carney Likely to Keep Key Canada Lending Rate at 1% Amid Risks From Europe

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-12-06T05:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/carney-likely-to-keep-key-canada-lending-rate-at-1-amid-risks-from-europe.html
The Bank of  Canada  will probably keep
its main interest rate unchanged today and say that economic
growth and  price stability  are still being threatened by
Europe’s debt crisis.  The Ottawa-based central bank will keep its  target  for
overnight loans between commercial banks at 1 percent, where it
has been since September 2010, according to all 26 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Growth in the world’s 10th largest economy will slow next
year as exports are hobbled by a slowing European economy and a
sluggish recovery in the U.S., the central bank has said.
Governor  Mark Carney  said last month he has “flexibility” in
how quickly he meets his inflation target during the recovery,
and some investors are  betting  he will cut rates next year.  “They are closer to a rate cut than a rate increase based
on the risks to the outlook,” said  Jonathan Basile , an
economist at Credit Suisse in  New York . For the Bank of Canada,
the risks are “not severe enough to raise the red flag” in
today’s statement, he said.  European leaders have spent two years struggling to prevent
contagion from affecting the region’s largest economies.  Germany 
failed to sell 35 percent of 10-year bonds on offer at a Nov. 23
auction, a sign investors had widened their concern from the
most indebted countries such as  Greece .  Canada’s gross domestic product growth will slow to 1.9
percent in 2012 from 2.1 percent this year, the central bank
said in an October forecast.  Bond Yields Fall  The economy is already being supported without the central
bank reducing its benchmark rate. Canada’s five-year bond yield
has fallen 29 basis points to 1.34 percent since the last
central-bank decision in October, reducing borrowing costs.
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said yesterday he may offer new
stimulus if domestic growth sags.  Growth  rebounded  in the third quarter to a 3.5 percent
annualized pace following natural disasters that slowed exports
and output in the prior three months. Companies such as
Montreal-based jet maker Bombardier Inc. say they haven’t seen a
sharp decline in demand for their products.  “Yes, there is caution, as a result of the economy, in the
market, but orders are still being placed for  business jets ,”
Barry MacKinnon, director of market development at Bombardier,
said at a Nov. 15 industry conference.  With the U.S. buying three-quarters of Canada’s exports,
economists say that the risk posed by Europe relates more to
confidence. If that region’s crisis led to “a big deterioration
of conditions in Canada or the U.S. there might be more pressure
to lower rates but the data so far haven’t shown that,” said
Nathan Janzen, an economist at Royal  Bank of Canada  in Toronto.  ‘Barely Contained’  Carney, who last month was named chairman of the Financial
Stability Board, said Nov. 23 in Montreal that Europe’s debt
crisis is “barely contained” and he has “flexibility” in
keeping  interest rates  low while meeting his inflation target.
He also said Canada’s economy may return to full capacity “well
into 2013,” a slight change from an October prediction the
economy would reach full output by the end of that year.  Consumer prices  advanced 2.9 percent in October from a year
earlier,  Statistics Canada  said Nov. 18, and the central bank
predicts inflation will slow to 1 percent by the middle of next
year. The central bank sets rates to keep prices advancing in
the middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent range.  That forecast allows central bankers to keep rates
unchanged for now and react only if there is a major swing in
economic growth prospects, Basile said.  “Everyone is very focused on  Europe ,” he said. In Canada,
“their problems aren’t as big as other central banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  