-- 
Charter Hall Office A$1.2 Billion Sale Is Logical Outcome, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-12-06T06:29:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/charter-hall-office-a-1-2-billion-sale-is-logical-outcome-jpmorgan-says.html
Charter Hall Office (CQO) , which yesterday
accepted a sweetened A$1.2 billion ($1.3 billion) bid from two
overseas funds, made the most logical decision possible,
analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  The Australian property trust’s independent directors
yesterday approved a A$2.49-a-share conditional offer from Reco
Ambrosia Pte, an affiliate of the  Government of Singapore
Investment Corp. , and the Public Sector Pension Investment Board
of  Canada . The bid was a 6-cent-a-unit improvement to the funds’
last offer on Oct. 5.  The latest bid is “in the best interests of Charter Hall
Office unitholders,” the REIT’s independent directors wrote in
unanimously backing the offer yesterday. The shares climbed by
the most in more than three months in Sydney trading today.  “In the absence of a higher bid, we see logic in the
directors’ decision,” JPMorgan analysts led by  Michael Scott 
wrote in a report dated yesterday. Still, “we would have liked
to see a final offer price closer to net tangible assets,”
Scott wrote.  Charter Hall Office could receive a higher bid than the
funds’ offer -- which is at a 4.2 percent discount to the
trust’s Australian net tangible assets per share of A$2.60 as of
June 30 -- if shareholders vote against it, analysts at CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets, led by Bryan Howitt, wrote in a report
today.  U.S. Asset Sale  The proposal is conditional on stipulations including an
approval of the offer by 75 percent of Charter Hall Office
unitholders and the completion of the sale of its U.S. assets,
the group said. The trust is in the process of selling its U.S.
properties to entities affiliated with Beacon Capital Partners
for $1.71 billion.  Charter Hall Office shares rose 4.4 percent to A$3.57 as of
the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney, more than A$1 higher
than the offer price due to the anticipated distribution from
the U.S. asset sale. JPMorgan estimates the U.S. assets will net
A$1.14 per share, based on current exchange rates. The shares
have jumped 24 percent since Aug. 26, before the group’s first
approach.  Charter Hall Group (CHC) , the trust’s current manager, will
retain its management and 14.5 percent stake, the group said
yesterday. A binding agreement must be executed by Dec. 22, and
the proposal must be implemented by March 31 for the offer to
become effective, Charter Hall Office said yesterday.  The bidders’ first two offers, at A$2.39 per unit, followed
by an improved A$2.43-a-share bid, were both knocked back by the
trust, which had said they weren’t adequate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  