-- 
Chavez Windfall for Bond Investors Means 60% Returns After Nationalization

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-12-06T21:26:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/chavez-windfall-for-bondholders-means-60-return-on-fertinitro.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , who
says that capitalism is “ruining the world,” is handing bond
investors a windfall by nationalizing a chemicals company.  Dollar notes from FertiNitro, the joint venture operated by
Koch Industries Inc. and state-run chemical company Pequiven,
returned 60 percent since the nationalization in October 2010.
Yields on the securities have dropped 6.29 percentage points to
8.35 percent since then as bondholders argued that the seizure
triggered a clause requiring a payout above face value. The
government offered on Nov. 22 to buy back the notes at 105 cents
on the dollar, up from 68 cents the day before the takeover.  Chavez, 57, has seized companies in the energy, food,
metals, cement and banking industries as part of his plan to
turn  Venezuela  into a socialist country. Gains on the FertiNitro
securities dwarf the 15 percent return on Venezuelan government
dollar bonds and a 1.5 percent gain for JPMorgan’s  emerging-
market corporate bond index  in the period.  “For all the noise associated with Chavez, he’s been very
good to bondholders,” said Raymond Zucaro, who helps manage and
advise on about $260 million of emerging-market corporate debt,
including FertiNitro bonds, at SW Asset Management LLC in
 Newport Beach ,  California . “He’s never defaulted on any fixed-
income obligations and frankly the yield doesn’t reflect that.”  Venezuela and state-oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA 
have sold a combined $17.2 billion in bonds this year as part of
a drive to increase public spending ahead of Chavez’s re-
election bid in October. Venezuela has the highest borrowing
costs of major emerging-market economies.  Borrowing Costs  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Venezuelan
debt fell 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 1,251 at
4:20 p.m. in  New York , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global index. That compares to 214 basis points for  Brazil  and
205 for  Mexico .  The 60 percent return for FertiNitro is based on a price of
99.625 cents on the dollar, which was the last trade reported on
Nov. 4 by Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. If FertiNitro investors
swap the 8.29 percent bonds in Pequiven’s tender offer today,
the profit will be even greater as they will get 105 cents.  Investors anticipated Venezuela would pay above face value
because of past precedents with seized oil ventures, said
 Russell Dallen , head bond trader at Caracas Capital Markets.  “Any time the market offers you the chance to essentially
double your money in a year you have to jump at it,” Dallen
said from Miami.  Sidetur  Bonds of steelmaker Siderurgica del Turbio SA, known as
Sidetur, may be the next opportunity for investors to bet on a
tender offer ahead of maturity after the company’s assets were
seized on Oct. 31, 2010, according to Dallen and fund managers
at  Knossos Asset Management  in Caracas.  “This is a good precedent for what we’re expecting with
Sidetur,” said Francisco Ghersi, co-managing director of
Knossos, which owns some of the bonds. “It’s worth waiting and
taking the risk while earning spectacular yields along the
way.”  Pequiven said that 79 percent of bondholders have entered
into a “lock-up agreement” to return the securities. While
bondholders are set to be paid for the notes, Koch is seeking
compensation for its seized assets in arbitration courts.
Pequiven and Koch each held 35 percent stakes in the venture.  Amicable Settlement  Pequiven declined to comment further, Jose Valdivia, a
partner at Hogan Lovells US LLP representing the company, said
in an e-mail. Koch spokeswoman Melissa Cohlmia didn’t return an
e-mail seeking comment and wasn’t available to speak by phone.  The Venezuelan Information Ministry didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Zucaro, the FertiNitro bondholder, said that covenants in
the indenture were triggered due to the nationalization and
change of ownership of the company, which prompted the
government to negotiate after being approached by investors.  “They agreed to sit down and talk with us and we
eventually reached an amicable settlement,” Zucaro said.  The FertiNitro payout mirrors similar cases for bondholders
of two joint ventures with Exxon Mobil Corp. and ConocoPhillips,
known as Cerro Negro and Petrozuata.  PDVSA repurchased about $1.2 billion of bonds from
investors in 2007 and 2008 after the U.S. oil companies refused
to accept the terms of Chavez’s nationalization of the industry.  Bond Tender Offer  The price of the Sidetur bonds surged in the days after its
nationalization to 83 cents on the dollar on speculation that
clauses in the notes could trigger a tender offer before
maturity similar to the one for FertiNitro before falling below
70 cents in July, Trace data show, as bets for an immediate
tender offer faded.  Yields on the 10 percent bonds due in 2016 fell 147 basis
points today, or 1.47 percent, to 18.67 percent, according to
Hapoalim Securities USA Inc. The price of the bonds rose 3.5
cents to 74.5 cents on the dollar today.  Sidetur’s $81.3 million in outstanding bonds are “very
illiquid,” Knossos’s Ghersi said.  Sidetur continues to be operated by its previous owners
with government supervision as they negotiate a payment for the
expropriated assets, which have a book value of 1.2 billion
bolivars ($288 million), Oswaldo Sahmkow, finance director of
 Sivensa , Sidetur’s parent company, said in a phone interview.  Expropriation Appeal  Sidetur is appealing the expropriation decree, according to
an earnings  statement  on its website. The steelmaker will buy
back its debt once it receives compensation, Sahmkow said.  “The contract obliges us to do so,” he said. “The owners
of Sidetur will continue to collaborate with the bondholders.”  Carmelo Haddad, who co-manages a $1.6 million fund with his
partner Ghersi in Caracas at Knossos and holds Sidetur bonds,
said that while the market isn’t betting on an immediate tender
offer for Sidetur, negotiations may pick up following the
FertiNitro deal.  “If negotiations start again the securities could heat
up,” Haddad said. “It’s such a small amount that the
government isn’t interested in defaulting on the bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  