-- 
Chelsea, Marseille, Zenit Reach Round of 16 in Champions League Soccer

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-12-06T23:11:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/chelsea-marseille-zenit-reach-round-of-16-in-champions-league-soccer.html
Chelsea defeated Valencia 3-0 to
reach the round of 16 in soccer’s Champions League, while
Marseille staged a late rally to qualify. Zenit  St. Petersburg 
also advanced from the group stage with a goalless draw at Porto.  Didier Drogba  had two goals last night at Stamford Bridge
in  London  as Chelsea finished atop Group E. The Blues needed to
win the game to avoid elimination.  “We finished top of the group against all odds,” Chelsea
manager Andre Villas-Boas told  Sky Sports . “The players worked
very hard for the win.”  With Olympiacos leading Arsenal 3-1 and looking set to go
through as Marseille trailed Dortmund 2-1 with five minutes
remaining, the French team scored twice to win 3-2 and finish
runner-up in Group F.  “Such a comeback is absolutely fabulous,” Marseille coach
Didier Deschamps said on the  Champions League  website. “I
endlessly repeat to the players that they must keep faith until
the very end.”  The top two teams in each of the eight groups advance to
the knockout round of  Europe ’s top club competition. The third
place team in each moves into the second-tier Europa League.  In other games, defending champion Barcelona beat BATE
Borisov 4-0, Olympiacos defeated Arsenal 3-1, AC Milan tied 2-2
with Viktoria Plzen, Bayer Leverkusen and Genk drew 1-1 and
Shakhtar Donetsk was a 2-0 winner over APOEL Nicosia.  Four More Places  Barcelona, Arsenal, Milan, Leverkusen and APOEL had already
qualified, along with  Bayern Munich ,  Inter Milan , Benfica and
record nine-time European champion Real  Madrid . The final four
places will be decided tonight.  Drogba scored after three minutes and Ramires doubled the
Chelsea lead in the 22nd minute. Drogba then clinched the
victory with 14 minutes remaining.  The win gave the Blues 11 points and moved them one point
ahead of Leverkusen in Group E.  Goals from Andre Ayew and Mathieu Valbuena gave Marseille
the comeback win in Dortmund that moved it past Olympiacos.  Dortmund took a 2-0 lead on first-half goals from Jakub
Blaszczykowski and Mats Hummels before Loic Remy scored for
Marseille just before halftime.  Ayew drew Marseille even in the 85th minute with a header
and Valbuena won the game two minutes later when he came off the
left wing, dribbled between defenders and curled a shot into the
top corner from the edge of the area.  Marseille Stuns Olympiacos  Marseille’s rally kept Olympiacos from advancing after the
Greek club beat Arsenal on goals from Rafik Djebbour, David
Fuster and Francois Modesto. Arsenal won the group with 11
points, Marseille finished with 10 and Olympiacos had nine.  Zenit got the draw it needed to ensure it edged Porto to
second place in Group G. APOEL won the pool over Zenit on a
tiebreaker after both finished with nine points. Porto, which
finished with eight points, will now try to defend the Europa
League title in won last season.  “We tried everything to win, we had many chances but just
couldn’t score,” Porto coach Vitor Pereira said on the
Champions League website. “We’re very disappointed.”  Pedro Rodriguez scored twice as  Barcelona , which already
clinched top spot in Group H, routed BATE Borisov at home.  David Bystron scored in the 89th minute and Michal Duris
added a goal in injury time as Plzen rallied for a late draw
against Milan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 