-- 
Chile Peso Heads to Longest Winning Streak in Month on Europe

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-12-06T14:28:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/chile-peso-heads-to-longest-winning-streak-in-month-on-europe.html
Chile ’s peso advanced for a fifth
day, the longest winning streak in a month, after Standard &
Poor’s warning that it may cut credit ratings on European
governments spurred speculation that regional policy makers will
act to prevent the continent’s debt crisis from worsening.  The peso strengthened as much as 0.2 percent to 512.55 per
 U.S. dollar , from 513.55 per dollar yesterday. It was up less
than 0.1 percent at 11:23 a.m. in Santiago. The currency last
rose for five consecutive days in the period ending Oct. 27.  French and German bonds fell after S&P said it may
downgrade 15 euro-area governments, including six rated AAA,
depending on the result of a summit of European leaders this
week.  Germany ’s Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the
warning would encourage European leaders to resolve their debt
crisis at the meeting on Dec. 8 to Dec. 9.  “Everybody’s waiting to see what happens on Friday,” said
Matias Madrid, chief economist at Banco Penta in Santiago.  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds fell to a seven-week low
of 5.8 percent from 5.94 percent yesterday and 7.2 percent a
week ago, after Prime Minister  Mario Monti  presented a package
of budget cuts aimed at reducing the country’s debt. Copper,
which makes up more than half of Chile’s exports, fell as much
as 2.5 percent.  “Appreciative pressure comes from expectations ahead of
this week’s European summit” said  Osvaldo Cruz , an economist at
Banco de Credito e Inversiones in Santiago. “Our short-term
view is that the peso could go to 507 per dollar, but a lot
depends on what happens in Europe this weekend.”  Offshore investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
trimmed their bets against the currency to $4.8 billion on Dec.
2 from $5.1 billion a day earlier.  Swap and bond yields were little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  