-- 
Chile May Hold Rates at High Level as Economy Weathers Storm, Marfan Says

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-12-06T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/chile-may-hold-rates-as-economy-weathers-storm-marfan-says.html
Chile ’s economy is weathering the
global economic downturn with near full employment, indicating
 interest rates  may remain at their highest level in almost three
years, the central bank’s deputy governor said.  “My base scenario is that the economy is at a level
consistent with potential output, so monetary policy should
continue to be more or less in a neutral stance,” Manuel Marfan
said in an interview in Santiago yesterday. “But there are
risks, and it all depends on the size of the shocks.”  Policy makers have kept the  key interest rate  at 5.25
percent at their past five meetings as they wait to see if the
European crisis will erode demand for commodity exports and damp
inflationary pressures. The economy grew 3.4 percent in October
from a year ago, the slowest pace since the aftermath of an
February 2010 earthquake, the central bank reported yesterday.  “There are signals that there is a deceleration, but we
have no evidence that it has been stronger than what we were
expecting,” Marfan said. “If the deceleration hadn’t occurred,
then monetary policy would have been much more contractive
because our assessment is that we are in the neighborhood of
full employment and GDP continues to grow dynamically.”  The jobless rate slid to 7.2 percent in the three months
through October from 7.4 percent in the month earlier period.  Standing Ready  Marfan, 58, joined the central bank board in 2003 and
became vice president in 2009. He will become interim president
of the bank if President Sebastian Pinera doesn’t name a
successor to replace Jose De Gregorio before his term ends on
Dec. 9.  After receiving his doctorate in economics from  Yale
University , Marfan was Chile’s finance minister from 1999 to
2000 and director of the economic development division at the
 United Nations ’ Economic Commission for  Latin America  and the
Caribbean for three years through 2003.  The central bank stands ready to reduce borrowing costs if
the global scenario deteriorates, Marfan said. The key rate will
fall to 4.75 percent by March and 4.5 percent by June, according
to the median estimate of 58 investors and traders in a Nov. 22
central bank survey.  “We cannot avoid becoming a little bit wet if there is a
huge storm in the rest of the world,” Marfan said.  Growth Forecast  Gross domestic product  will expand as much as 6.75 percent
this year before slowing to between 4.25 percent and 5.25
percent growth in 2012, according to central bank forecasts
published in September. The bank is scheduled to publish new
estimates this month.  Growth eased to 4.8 percent in the third quarter after
reaching 8.25 percent in the first half of the year, according
to calculations made by Bloomberg based on central bank data.  Chile’s benchmark equity index, the  Ipsa (IPSA) , has rallied 14
percent since Oct. 4 when it touched the lowest level since
December 2009. The spread on Chile’s 10-year bonds in dollars
fell to 121 basis points yesterday from 128 basis points on Nov.
28 and 136 basis points on Nov. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  