-- 
China-Africa Fund Finds Investing in African Projects Difficult, CEO Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-06T04:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/china-africa-fund-s-investments-not-as-easy-as-hoped-chief-executive-says.html
The China-Africa Development Fund  has
found investing in the African continent more difficult than
expected after committing almost all its first $1 billion, Chief
Executive Officer Chi Jianxin said in an interview.  The state-owned private equity fund, which began in June
2007, has not been able to exit any of its investments to
realize a profit, Chi said yesterday in Beijing. It is still
seeking a “beneficial result” in the long term, he said.  “When we started, we didn’t have investing experience in
 Africa , and we hoped to have a quite good profit in three to
five years so we could exit investments,” said Chi, who first
visited Africa in September 2007 after becoming chief executive.
“But we’ve seen it’s not so easy as that.”  The fund may consider future investments in building
materials, infrastructure, mining and agriculture, Chi said.
China is Africa’s largest trading  partner  and has signed
agreements worth billions of dollars with African governments,
seeking natural resources to feed its economic growth in
exchange for building roads and railways, and nurturing a market
for its products.  The fund, China’s largest African private-equity investment
vehicle, hopes to raise money in the market in the future, Chi
said. It plans to get its next $2 billion from parent  China 
Development Bank Corp., he said.  “High Risks”  “We very much hope that in the future we can raise money
from the market but from the current situation, because African
investment is long-term and has high risks, that is difficult,”
Chi said.  Chinese President Hu Jintao announced the fund at a meeting
of China and African leaders in 2006 with a target of $5
billion. The Beijing-based fund has helped Chinese companies
build a power plant in Ghana, a port in  Nigeria  and cotton farms
in Malawi and Mozambique. It does not take controlling stakes in
projects.  Trade between China and Africa rose an average of 28
percent a year between 2001 and 2010, the Ministry of Commerce
said last month.  Chi said the next $2 billion of funding will probably be
completed by the next  Forum on China-Africa Cooperation , which
should be held before the end of 2012.  “From a point of view of a  money manager , the more simple
the funding, the better,” Chi said. “We think CDB investment
is the simplest.”  The fund generates enough  cash flow  to maintain its
operations and has made a small profit so far, Chi said. The
Chinese government doesn’t interfere with the decisions of the
fund, he said.  The fund opened its first West African office on Nov. 11 in
Ghana, its fourth regional site in Africa. It has offices in
 South Africa ,  Ethiopia  and  Zambia .  Beijing-based  China Development Bank  has lent $7 billion to
more than 30 countries in Africa, Wang Yuan, the bank’s chief
economist, said Nov. 5.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  