-- 
China’s Stocks Slump to Lowest in Six Weeks on Growth Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-06T07:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/china-stocks-slump-to-lowest-since-2009-on-slowing-growth-europe-concerns.html
China’s stocks  fell, sending the
benchmark index to its lowest level in six weeks, on concern a
property slowdown will hurt growth and after  Standard & Poor’s 
put 15 European nations on watch for lower ratings.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398)  and Bank of
China Ltd. dropped at least 1 percent after  Fitch Ratings  said a
property-price correction will lead to worsening loan
portfolios. Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. fell among
commodity producers after Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its estimate
for China’s growth next year.  Zhejiang Bangjie Digital Knitting
Share Co.  slid 2.9 percent, pacing declines by companies reliant
on European demand, on concern orders will slow.  “The weakness in the  property market  will pose a big
threat to economic growth next year,” said Wang Weijun, a
strategist at Zheshang Securities Co. in Shanghai. “There is a
lot of uncertainty in  Europe . If the debt crisis worsens, hot
money will probably continue to flow out of China.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.3 percent to
2,325.91 at the close, the lowest since Oct. 21. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  fell 0.2 percent to 2,516.34. The  Bloomberg China-US 55
Index , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, added 0.9 percent in  New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai gauge has plunged 17 percent this year,
exceeding last year’s 14 percent decline, after the central bank
raised  interest rates  and lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios to
curb inflation. The index is valued at 11.1 times estimated
earnings, compared with a six-year average of 18.3 times,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  Reserve Ratio  A move by the central bank to lower required reserves for
banks for the first time since 2008 failed to boost stocks, with
the  Shanghai  Composite sliding 0.3 percent since the decision
was announced on Nov. 30. Premier Wen Jiabao has pledged to
“fine-tune” economic policies to sustain growth amid a
deepening debt crisis in Europe that threatens to trigger a
global recession.  The statistics bureau is scheduled to report November’s
inflation rate and other economic figures on Dec. 9. Consumer
prices probably increased 4.5 percent last month from a year
ago, compared with a 5.5 percent rise in October, according to
the median estimate of 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Inflation reached a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  China may have “moderate inflation” for a long time, the
 China Daily  reported today, citing Sheng Laiyun, a spokesman for
the National Bureau of Statistics.  Policy Controls  ICBC, the nation’s biggest listed lender, lost 1.9 percent
to 4.20 yuan.  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , the third-largest by assets,
dropped 1 percent to 2.93 yuan.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) ,
the fourth-biggest, retreated 1.5 percent to 2.56 yuan.  Chinese banks’ exposure to the property market is
understated, Charlene Chu, head of China financial institutions
at Fitch Ratings, told reporters on a teleconference yesterday.  The government will extend property control measures next
year, the Shanghai Securities News reported, citing Zhao Luxing,
real estate department head at the Ministry of Housing and Rural
Development’s policy research center.  Loan limits to curb inflation and home-purchase
restrictions to prevent a property bubble have spurred price
drops in cities including Beijing and Shanghai. Officials are
still grappling with the aftermath of record lending in 2009 and
2010 which fueled price gains and led to credit risks for banks.  Forecast Cut  Commodity companies declined. Tongling Nonferrous Metals,
 China ’s second-biggest copper producer, retreated 1.1 percent to
18.60 yuan. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the listed unit of
nation’s biggest maker of the lightweight metal and also called
Chalco, lost 0.8 percent to 7.66 yuan, its lowest since February
2009.  Nomura cut its estimate for China’s economic growth next
year to 7.9 percent from 8.6 percent as investment in private
housing slows and exports moderate, economists led by Zhang Zhiwei said in an e-mailed report today.  Monetary policy  will be
loosened gradually and moderately in 2012, he said.  The euro area’s six AAA-rated countries are among the 15
nations to be placed on a negative outlook, and their credit
ratings may be cut depending on the result of a summit of
European Union leaders on Dec. 9, S&P said yesterday in a
statement.  The downgrade warnings come as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicolas Sarkozy push for a rewrite
of the EU’s governing rules to tighten economic cooperation in a
demonstration of unity on ending the debt crisis.  Export Concern  Zhejiang Bangjie Digital Knitting, which derives 49 percent
of sales from Europe, slid 2.9 percent to 21.96 yuan.  Shandong
Hiking International Co. (600735) , a textile manufacturer that relies on
Europe for 26 percent of its revenues, dropped 3.6 percent to
8.49 yuan, its lowest close since July last year.  Asian economies are facing “much greater downside risks”
now because of the possibility of a recession in the U.S. and
Europe and the threat of destabilizing capital flows, the  Asian
Development Bank  said.  The biggest challenge for policy makers in emerging East
Asian nations is to safeguard growth against the threat of
another global economic crisis, the Manila-based lender said in
its Asia Economic Monitor report today. Uncertainty over the
world economy means officials in the region must have
“sufficient flexibility” to adjust policies quickly, it said.  China may cut the reserve requirement for banks again
around Chinese New Year, the China Securities Journal reported
today on its front page, without citing anyone. January and
February are an “important window” for lowering the
requirement, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  