-- 
China Swap Rate Rises as PBOC Keeps One-Year Bill Yield Stable at Auction

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-06T09:05:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/china-swap-rate-rises-as-pboc-keeps-one-year-bill-yield-stable-at-auction.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps climbed
for the first time in six days after the central bank kept the
yield on one-year bills unchanged for a third week, damping
speculation of further monetary easing.  The People’s Bank of China drained 100 billion yuan ($15.7
billion) of capital from the financial system today via sales of
 one-year bills  and 28-day  repurchase contracts . The central bank
kept the yield on one-year notes unchanged at 3.4875 percent,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions.  “The unchanged one-year bill yield shows the central bank
may not want to increase traders’ interest-rate cut
speculation,” said Guo Caomin, a bond analyst at Industrial
Bank Co. in  Shanghai . “The one-year bill usually conveys some
policy signal because its term is the same as the benchmark
rate.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose six basis
points to 2.73 percent as of 5:01 p.m. in Shanghai, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Yesterday’s closing level of 2.67
percent was the lowest in a year.  A total of 35 billion yuan of central bank bills and
 repurchase agreements  will mature this week, according to
Industrial Bank’s Guo.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, gained nine basis points to 3.38 percent,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  The yield on the 3.44 percent government bond due June 2016
climbed five basis points to 3.10 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  -- Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan , Andrew Janes  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 