-- 
Coca-Cola Beverages Tampered With in China, Government Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-06T09:26:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/chinese-police-say-coca-cola-beverages-were-tampered-with.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  beverages were tampered
with in northern China, where police are investigating after a
child in the city of Changchun was killed and three other people
were sickened in the incident, the government said.  “Dangerous substances” were added to Coca-Cola’s Minute
Maid strawberry-flavored pulpy milk beverage, according to a
 statement  posted on a website affiliated to the Jilin provincial
government, where Changchun is the capital. The world’s largest
soft-drink maker said today tests showed the death and illness
weren’t related to the quality of its product.  Coca-Cola reviewed production and warehousing processes,
checked retained samples of production batches and had tests
conducted by the China National Center for Food Quality
Supervision and Testing, the Atlanta-based beverage maker said
in an e-mailed statement. Its Sprite lemon-lime drink, the
nation’s biggest seller, was tampered with in 2009 and 2010
cases of mercury poisoning that injured two people in Beijing,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported at the time.  “Tests and reviews indicate our products are safe and
within standards, and reaffirm the incident is not related to
the quality of our products,” Coca-Cola said in the statement
today. “We are 100 percent confident in the safety and quality
of our products.”  Growth Market  Coca-Cola and its Chinese bottling partners will invest $4
billion in the world’s fastest growing economy over three years
from 2012 amid plans to build more factories and win market
share from rival PepsiCo Inc., it said in August. The company is
also talking to regulators about selling shares in  China , which
Chief Executive Muhtar Kent described as “one of our most
important growth markets in the world.”  Sales surpassed 1 billion unit cases in the six months
through June, compared with 2005, when it sold that amount for
the whole year, Coca-Cola has said. Each unit case has 24 eight-
ounce servings.  Coca-Cola controlled about 62 percent of the country’s soft
drinks market last year, followed by PepsiCo Inc. with 29
percent, Euromonitor International estimates. Minute Maid is one
of Coca-Cola’s best-selling brands in China, according to the
London-based researcher.  Food Protection  China has pledged to strengthen food protection after baby
formula tainted with melamine killed at least six infants and
sickened thousands in 2008. Tainted milk powder, banned
additives in pork and buns dyed with chemicals have fueled food-
safety concerns in China and spurred the government to pledge
greater protection for consumers.  The incident involving Minute Maid milk drinks occurred
Nov. 28, state-run Xinhua reported. Separately, two Changchun
residents were hospitalized the same day after consuming the
same product, according to the report.  The mother of the child who was killed remains in a
hospital in stable condition, Xinhua reported today. The other
two were discharged, it said.  Coca-Cola has been in contact with the affected families,
Joanna Price, the company’s Shanghai-based spokeswoman, said
today by phone. She declined to provide more information as the
investigation is ongoing.  The Minute Maid drinks, made by Coca-Cola’s Jilin
subsidiary, were temporarily taken off store shelves last week
in Jilin after the incident, Xinhua reported. Government tests
of samples showed the beverage to be safe, according to the  news
agency .  At least five calls to Changchun police’s news office today
went unanswered.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  