-- 
Chinese Court Jails Australian for 13 Years for Bribery

-- B y   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-12-06T09:20:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/chinese-court-jails-australian-for-13-years-for-bribery.html
A Chinese court sentenced an
Australian businessman to 13 years in jail on charges of bribery
and embezzlement, according to the government in Canberra.  Matthew Ng, who was tried in a court in Guangzhou, is
expected to appeal the sentence, the Department of  Foreign
Affairs  and Trade said in an e-mailed statement today.  Diplomatic officials in the southern Chinese city are
providing consular assistance to Ng and his family and visited
him in detention as recently as last month, the statement said.
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and Treasurer Wayne Swan
have raised the case with Chinese authorities in recent months,
the department said.  China is  Australia ’s largest trading partner and its demand
for  iron ore  and coal is driving the nation’s biggest resources
boom in a century. Ties between the two countries were strained
in 2010 with the trial and imprisonment in China of Stern Hu, an
Australian convicted of accepting bribes and commercial spying
while working for Rio Tinto Group.  “Authorities tried the case in accordance with the law”
and “followed the Australia- China  consular agreement,” Chinese
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters at a press
briefing in Beijing today.  Ng’s lead lawyer, Chen Youxi, told the court the criminal
case had been orchestrated by a third party as leverage in its
attempt to obtain his travel company,  Et-China , cheaply, the
Sydney Morning Herald newspaper reported today.  The company’s chairman was sentenced to 16 years in prison
while its chief financial officer was given a 3 1/2-year term,
also on related embezzlement and corporate charges, the
newspaper said.  With assistance from Michael Forsythe and  Kevin Hamlin  in
Beijing. Editor: Peter Vercoe  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  