-- 
Christmas-Tree Spending Rises to Highest Since Pre-Recession

-- B y   B l a i r   E u t e n e u e r   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-12-06T15:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/christmas-tree-spending-rises-to-highest-since-before-recession.html
Spending on Christmas trees in the
U.S. will rise 3.1 percent this year to $3.4 billion, the
highest since before the recession gutted retail sales in 2008,
as demand and prices increase, researcher IBISWorld said.  Americans will spend about $800 million for 25 million real
trees and another $2.6 billion on 10 million artificial versions
during the holiday season, Nikoleta Panteva, a senior analyst at
Los Angeles-based IBISWorld, said in an interview.  “We expect strong tree sales this year and strong holiday
sales overall,” said Jean Niemi, a spokeswoman for Atlanta-
based  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the world’s largest home-improvement
retailer and the biggest seller of cut trees. “History shows us
that even in a down economy, the Christmas tradition isn’t one
that families part with.”  Spending on trees is up for a third straight year after
plunging almost 11 percent in 2008, when the global economy sunk
into its worst recession since World War II, according to
IBISWorld.  Consumer confidence  jumped last month by the most
since 2003, and the unemployment  rate  in November was at a 32-
month low. The  National Retail Federation  says U.S. retail sales
reached a record during the four-day Thanksgiving weekend,
signaling consumers aren’t cutting back on holiday purchases.  In 2008, Americans spent $3.14 billion on trees, down from
$3.51 billion in 2007, as the recession erased $27.9 trillion in
the  value  of global equities and unemployment in the U.S. was
headed to the highest level in almost three decades.  Retail
sales  in the U.S. plunged in December 2008 to the lowest in more
than three years.  Sales Optimism  “We’ve heard optimism from both wholesale and choose-and-
cut growers,” said Rick Dungey, a spokesman at the National
Christmas Tree Association. “They think the number of trees
purchased might be more this year than last year.”  Some retailers are increasing Christmas trees and supplies
in anticipation of stronger sales this year. Home Depot expects
to at least match last year’s tree sales of more than 2 million,
Niemi said.  Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest home improvement retailer,
is offering two additional selections of artificial pre-lit
trees this year and expanded its line of garlands and
decorations by 5 percent to 10 percent this year, said Colleen
Maiura, a spokeswoman for the Mooresville, North Carolina-based
retailer.  Total spending for gifts, food and decorations before the
Dec. 25 holiday may total $64.3 billion this year, up 3.3
percent from 2010 and the highest since 2007, IBISWorld data
show.  Growers’ Optimism  “Sales are up,” said Jennifer Greene, the executive
director of the North Carolina Christmas Tree Association. “The
phone calls have increased over last year, and the orders, the
quantities have increased.”  Bottomley Evergreens & Farms Inc., a supplier to Lowe’s,
expects to sell 400,000 trees this year, up about 80,000 to
100,000 from last year, said Mack Osborne, the office manager
for the 6 million-tree Ennice, North Carolina-based farm.  “We’ve taken on larger orders and are adding to our
customer base,” Osborne said. “The demand is there.”  Bob Schaefer, the general manager of Noble Mountain Tree
Farm in Salem,  Oregon , said he will sell 500,000 trees, about
the same as last year, to retailers including Home Depot and
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s
largest retailer. Oregon is the largest U.S. producer of
Christmas trees.  “We feel we’re right on trend as far as sales are
concerned,” Schaefer said. “Early indications are sales of
real Christmas trees should be improving this year.”  Schaefer said his wholesale prices are up about 7 percent
this year at about $16 to $19 for 6-foot to 7-foot Noble Firs.  Lower Profits  Last year, U.S.  farmers  received $374.97 million from
selling Christmas trees, down 3.3 percent from a year earlier
and the lowest in annual cash receipts since 2006, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show.  “I’m afraid when it’s all said and done that we didn’t
raise our prices enough” because of higher costs for labor,
fuel and fertilizer, Schaefer said. “We’ll be significantly
lower. In fact, we may be in the red.”  Oregon has the second-highest minimum  wage  in the nation
behind  Washington  at $8.50 per hour, according to government
 data .  “Often the biggest cost for a Christmas tree farm can be
labor,” Dungey said, noting that trees older than two years
have to be sheared yearly to grow straight.  Fertilizer costs are up 40 percent to 50 percent this year
for tree farmers, said  Mark Connelly , a research analyst at
Credit Agricole Securities Inc. in  New York .  Schaefer said his diesel and fuel costs were up 30 percent
this year. The national average of regular  gasoline  at the pump
is 12 percent higher than a year ago.  “It’s a significant hit we’re taking because if you’re
quoting prices in the spring, that kind of increase isn’t
anticipated,” Schaefer said. “We’re taking a pretty big hit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blair Euteneuer in Chicago at 
 beuteneuer@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  