-- 
Citic Pacific Didn’t Know Implications of 2008 Currency Bets, Court Told

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-12-07T08:57:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/citic-pacific-didn-t-know-implication-of-2008-currency-bets-lawyer-says.html
Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) ’s officers didn’t
know the implications of the company’s currency exposure when
they failed to disclose potential losses, a lawyer for the
steelmaker and property developer told a  Hong Kong  court.  “In contracts of this complexity, how can you decide
within two days that you’re going to sustain huge losses that
would require a report to the stock exchange,” said Collingwood
Thompson at a hearing yesterday where Citic Pacific is fighting
a ruling that police should have access to some of its
documents.  Hong Kong’s Department of Justice said in March it suspects
Citic Pacific defrauded four banks before Oct. 20, 2008, when it
sought financing without disclosing losses on currency bets. The
company had said in a stock exchange filing on Sept. 12 that
year that its directors weren’t aware of any material adverse
change in the group’s financial position.  Court of Appeal judges Michael Hartmann, Susan Kwan and
Jonathan Harris today denied a  Department of Justice  request to
provide evidence from the banks that they were misled about
Citic Pacific’s finances.  In an Oct. 20 filing in 2008, the company said its bet the
Australian dollar would fall against its U.S. counterpart could
result in losses of as much as HK$15.5 billion ($2 billion). The
company learned of the exposure on Sept. 7, it said. The Sept.
12 filing cited information current until Sept. 9.  Thompson was responding to a question from Hartmann on the
information directors received on Sept. 7.  ‘Not Understood?’  “Was it a doomsday announcement that was irrevocable or an
indication of troubled times ahead, implications of which were
not completely understood?” Hartmann asked yesterday.  Justice Department lawyer Charlotte Draycott said today
that any responsible director would have been monitoring the
relevant exchange rates on a daily basis.  “It’s completely unrealistic to say the people in charge
of this company, the board of directors, were not fully aware of
what was happening,” she told the court.  The  High Court  ruled in March that records of legal advice
the company received before it disclosed the bets should be
available to the justice department for potential criminal
prosecution. Thompson said yesterday that the fraud case
presented wasn’t strong enough to justify turning over the
privileged documents.  Citic Pacific’s bets on the Australian dollar prompted a
bailout from its parent  Citic Group , which is backed by  China ’s
cabinet, and the resignation of its chairman Larry Yung.  The case is Citic Pacific Ltd. and Secretary of Justice,
Commissioner of Police, CACV60/2011 in Hong Kong’s Court of
Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  