-- 
Citigroup to Cut 4,500 Jobs on Slumping Revenue

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-12-07T16:52:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/citigroup-to-cut-4-500-jobs-on-slumping-revenue-take-400-million-charge.html
Citigroup Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit will cut about 4,500 jobs in coming
quarters as he seeks to reduce costs amid slumping revenue and
“unprecedented” market conditions.  The lender will take a fourth-quarter pretax charge of
about $400 million tied to the reductions, including severance,
Pandit said yesterday at an investor conference in New York.
Citigroup, the third-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,  employed (C)  about
267,000 people as of Sept. 30, according to a filing.  “Financial services faces an extremely challenging
operating environment with an unprecedented combination of
market uncertainty, sustained economic weakness in the developed
economies and the most substantial regulatory changes we have
seen in our lifetimes,” said Pandit, 54. “These trends will
likely significantly affect the competitive landscape in the
coming years.”  Pandit is cutting staff as the European sovereign-debt
crisis persists and banks prepare for regulations on minimum
capital levels to take effect, threatening revenue from trading
and investment banking. Citigroup said in September it would
limit hiring to “critical” jobs to control costs.  “The 4,500 is a drop in the bucket for them, particularly
when you consider how big they are and their global scope,”
 Nancy Bush , an analyst at SNL Financial, a bank-research firm in
Charlottesville,  Virginia , said in a phone interview. “I’d be
suspicious that this may be the tip of the iceberg.”  Financial firms worldwide have cut more than 200,000 jobs
this year, up from about 58,000 last year and 174,000 in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of America Corp.
CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  said the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
lender plans to eliminate 30,000 jobs in the next few years.  ‘Overhead Expenses’  “For the banking sector, both investment banking and
commercial banking, the overhead expenses are too high,”  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst at Royal Bank of Canada in  Portland ,  Maine ,
said in a phone interview. “The industry needs to do a better
job bringing that expense level down to reflect the lower
revenues vis-a-vis what they were two or three years ago.”  The 4,500 job cuts announced yesterday amount to 1.7
percent of Citigroup’s workforce on Sept. 30 and would still
leave the lender with almost the same amount of staff it had at
the end of 2009, when the firm employed about 265,300 people,
regulatory filings show.  Pandit is investing in emerging markets such as  Brazil ,
 China  and  India , which now account for more than half of the
bank’s profit. Those economies may expand at 6 percent a year
through 2015, eclipsing developed markets, which may grow less
than 2 percent, Pandit said.  Emerging Markets   “Developed economies are undergoing a long period of
deleveraging of consumer, financial, corporate and government
balance sheets, which will drive slow growth for years,” Pandit
said at the conference sponsored by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
“By contrast, emerging-markets growth is expected to continue,
fueled by population growth, the rise of a powerful consumer
base in the middle class and a growing share of world trade.”  Citigroup opened 65 branches through the first three
quarters of this year, mostly in  Asia  and  Latin America , the
bank’s consumer head, Manuel Medina-Mora, said Nov. 16.  Pandit should cut Wall Street trading jobs as regulators
prepare rules which may crimp profits, said Richard Staite, a
London-based analyst with Atlantic Equities LLP. Fixed-income
trading revenue for the third quarter fell 33 percent to $2.3
billion from about $3.5 billion in the same period last year
while equities-trading revenue tumbled 73 percent to $289
million from $1 billion, excluding an accounting gain.  ‘Weakness in Trading’  “Given that there’s likely to be a secular decline in
fixed-income trading revenue, particularly in developed markets,
they should be reducing staff in that area,” Staite said in a
phone interview. “The weakness in trading revenues is likely to
accelerate a switch of emphasis within Citigroup, away from
volatile trading and more towards more stable consumer and
corporate banking.”  Pandit didn’t say where the staff reductions would occur
and Jon Diat, a bank spokesman, declined to specify which
countries would have the steepest cuts. Pandit has cut more than
100,000 jobs since he became CEO in December 2007 through
dismissals and sales of distressed assets and businesses from
the New York-based lender’s Citi Holdings unit.  Citigroup slipped 31 cents, or 1 percent, to $29.44 at
11:39 a.m. in  New York . The shares slumped 37 percent this year
through yesterday.  Pandit also said that the bank will post a negative
adjustment of $300 million to its deferred tax assets in  Japan 
following a reduction in that country’s corporate tax rates.  Proprietary Trading  Some of the job cuts at Citigroup will come from the firm’s
proprietary-trading operations as regulators seek to restrict
banks from betting shareholder cash, Pandit said. The firm said
in October that it’s closing the Equity Principal Strategies
unit, a proprietary-trading operation run by Sutesh Sharma.  Citigroup posted a 74 percent increase in third-quarter
profit, aided by a $1.9 billion accounting gain that softened
the impact of lower trading and  investment-banking  revenue.
Excluding the accounting figure, the bank’s revenue for the
period fell 8 percent to $18.9 billion.  Most of that accounting gain stemmed from a credit-
valuation adjustment, or CVA. This required Citigroup to book a
gain on the declining value of its debts.  The spreads have tightened this quarter, Pandit said. If
the fourth quarter ended on Dec. 5, the bank would post a $200
million negative CVA, compared with a $1.9 billion gain in the
previous quarter, he said.  Citigroup’s lending business in its securities and banking
operation also would record a loss of about $300 million tied to
hedges if the quarter ended on Dec. 5, compared with a $650
million gain in the third quarter, Pandit said. Hedges are bets
that firms make when seeking to curb potential losses on
existing positions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 