-- 
Cleveland, Cuyahoga County Property Values May Plunge Next Year, Fed Says

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-12-06T18:32:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/cleveland-cuyahoga-county-property-values-may-plunge-fed-says-in-report.html
Declining property values in  Cuyahoga
County  and  Cleveland , its largest city, may force local
governments to raise taxes or cut services after parcels are
reappraised in 2012, a  report  by Federal Reserve Bank of
Cleveland researchers said.  Falling prices suggest that property values could be up to
45 percent lower than 2010 county estimates, according to a
study issued today by Thomas J. Fitzpatrick IV and Mary Zenker.
The impact on tax collections in municipalities already facing
tight budgets, especially in Cleveland and its inner-ring
suburbs, “could be significant,” the researchers said.  “If creative ways to make up for this lack of revenue are
not found, local governments may face the undesirable choice of
either raising property taxes or reducing funding for essential
services,” the study said. “The dramatic fall in property
values across the country will accelerate the financial distress
of municipalities in the wake of the Great Recession.”  The researchers used  Cleveland  and Cuyahoga County in
northeast Ohio as a case study. Using the sale prices of
residential properties, they estimated the current market value
of parcels compared with county estimates from 2006-2010.
Researchers projected that property values in Cuyahoga County
will be between 11 percent and 18 percent lower than 2010
estimates after next year’s reappraisal -- a $1.1 billion loss
to the county tax base.  Property values may be 38 percent to 45 percent lower than
county estimates in Cleveland and 26 percent to 30 percent lower
in inner-ring suburbs, the report said.  “If appraisals come in close to this far below the 2010
county estimates, Cleveland and the inner-ring suburbs may face
a significant tax revenue shock in 2012,” the researchers said.  A telephone message seeking comment about the report from
Wade Steen, Cuyahoga County’s fiscal officer, wasn’t immediately
returned.  Andrea Taylor, spokeswoman for Cleveland Mayor Frank Jackson, said she wasn’t able provide an immediate comment on
the report when reached by telephone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus,  Ohio , at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  