-- 
Clinton Urges Russia Vote Investigation, Says Rights Eroding

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-12-06T10:23:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/clinton-urges-russia-vote-investigation-says-rights-eroding-1-.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called for an investigation into “fraud” in Russia’s
election in remarks that focused on “growing restrictions” on
democracy and human rights in the former  Soviet Union .  Speaking to a gathering of the 56-nation  Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe  in Vilnius, Lithuania,
Clinton pointed to protests sweeping the Arab world and
described an “essential” link between human rights and
political stability. People’s aspirations are as central to
stability as military security, she said today.  Clinton warned about eroding rights and violence against
minorities in parts of the OSCE, targeting Belarus, which
subjects human rights defenders to “unremitting persecution.”
Bolstering a call for a Russian probe, Clinton cited a
preliminary OSCE report on  Russia ’s Dec. 4 election for the
State Duma, the lower house of parliament, that lists election-
day attempts to stuff ballot boxes, manipulate voter lists, and
the harassment of independent Russian election observers.  “Russian voters deserve a full investigation of electoral
fraud and manipulation,” Clinton said. “The Russian people,
like people everywhere, deserve the right to have their voices
heard and their votes counted. And that means they deserve free,
fair, transparent elections and leaders who are accountable to
them.”  Protests in Moscow  Thousands of protesters took to Moscow’s streets yesterday
to accuse Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s  United Russia  party of
rigging the elections. United Russia won 49.5 percent of the
vote, preliminary results show, down from the last election,
when it won 64.3 percent.  The top U.S. diplomat urged the Russian government to act
on recommendations by the OSCE observer mission. Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov, who is at the meeting, didn’t respond
directly to Clinton’s call. He criticized the United Nations
 Security Council  resolution, pushed by the U.S., that authorized
NATO’s military engagement in  Libya .  “ We’re seriously concerned about use of the Security
Council for illegal ends,” Lavrov said. “If we deviate from
the rule of law, however elegant our excuses for doing so,” we
cannot help but undermine it.  Afghan Conference  Clinton’s week-long swing through  Europe  includes stops in
Brussels, Geneva and The Hague. She attended a conference on
 Afghanistan  in Bonn,  Germany , yesterday. Her trip is focused on
promoting democracy, basic freedoms and minority rights.  “There are growing restrictions on the exercise of
fundamental rights throughout the OSCE region,” Clinton said.  She put special emphasis on the situation in Belarus,
mentioning two presidential candidates --  Andrei Sannikov  and
Mikalai Statkevich -- who were jailed after December 2010
elections, describing them as “political prisoners.”  She also singled out the case of Ales Bialiatski, a human
rights activist who was convicted on tax charges in November and
sentenced to four-and-a-half years in jail.  His “real crime, in the eyes of the state, was helping
victims of state repression,” Clinton said. She met privately
with Belarusian activists while at the OSCE meeting.  Clinton highlighted the prosecution of Yulia Tymoshenko in
the Ukraine, saying it raised “serious questions about
political motivations.”  She also presented a Declaration on Fundamental Freedoms in
the Digital Age, urging members to guarantee freedom of speech
whether it occurs in the town square or on the social networking
sites of Twitter Inc. or Facebook Inc.  Independent journalists in the OSCE region have been
attacked and even killed “with impunity,” she said. The
declaration has 27 co-sponsors and needs unanimous backing to be
adopted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Vilnius at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  