-- 
Clinton Meets Syrian Opposition in Geneva as U.S. Envoy Returns to Mideast

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-12-07T09:43:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/clinton-meets-syrian-opposition-coalition-in-geneva-as-u-s-envoy-returns.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met in Geneva with Syrians seeking to end the rule of
President Bashar al-Assad, a sign of the Obama administration’s
determination to see the end of al-Assad’s government.  Clinton spoke for almost two hours yesterday with members
of the Syrian National Council, a coalition of opposition
groups, shortly after the State Department announced it was
sending Ambassador  Robert Ford  back to Syria. Ford was pulled
out on Oct. 24 due to fears for his safety.  “His return demonstrates our continued solidarity with the
Syrian people and the value we place on Ford’s efforts to engage
Syrians on their efforts to achieve a peaceful and democratic
transition,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said in a
statement yesterday. The U.S. expects al-Assad’s government to
fulfill its obligation to protect diplomatic personnel, he said.  Clinton said she is listening to Syrian opposition plans to
oust al-Assad’s government and shift the country to democracy.
She urged them to protect universal rights, the rule of law and
minorities. She also called for opposition groups in the
coalition to work together.  “If Syrians unite, they together can succeed in moving
their country to that better future,” Clinton said. “We are
well aware that there is a lot of hard work to be done. There
are many Syrians in exile. We are committed to helping their
country make this transition.”  Free Syrian Army  Syria ’s opposition has historically been fragmented and the
opposition Syrian National Council, which includes secular
groups and Islamists in Syria as well as abroad, still excludes
other dissidents. The SNC has criticized soldiers who left al-
Assad’s army to set up the opposition Free Syrian Army, headed
by former Colonel Riad al-As’ad, for acting independently of the
council at times. The FSA, whose leadership is in neighboring
 Turkey , says its ranks include more than 25,000 army defectors.  Relations between Syria and Turkey have deteriorated
gradually since the uprising against al-Assad began in March.
Syria closed some border crossings to Turkish vehicles and moved
tanks to the region, Turkey’s NTV reported today. Syria is
allowing passage for vehicles with Syrian license plates,
according to the Istanbul-based news channel. Al-Assad’s army
moved six tanks to a region bordering southern Turkey, NTV said.  Seen as Legitimate  A State Department official present at the meeting said the
U.S. considers the council to be a leading and legitimate
representative of Syrians seeking a peaceful, democratic
transition. The official wasn’t authorized to speak on the
record. Clinton spent almost two hours with the group, the
official said.  The seven coalition representatives at the meeting told
Clinton that they are seeking a peaceful, orderly transition in
which al-Assad, his family and key figures in the leadership
would leave Syria after transferring power to a provisional
government with limited authority before elections are held, the
official said. They told Clinton that the end result would be a
Syrian-designed democracy, one in which citizenship would
transcend sect or gender, he said.  They made no reference to holding al-Assad or other leaders
accountable or to methods of reconciling social, ethnic or
political divisions created by the violence that has wracked
Syria since the protests began, according to the official.  No Revenge  Clinton expressed hope that al-Assad would see merit in
leaving and commended the council plan as measured, deliberate
and devoid of revenge, the official said.  While the U.S. is in touch with other opposition groups,
the official said, the administration has been impressed with
the progress the SNC has made in unifying the opposition within
and outside Syria.  One member of the ethnically and religiously diverse group
suggested that the U.S. formally recognize the council, as it
did the National Transition Council in  Libya , which now
temporarily governs that country. Clinton responded by saying
that, for now, they should focus on outreach to minorities, the
official said.  The regime is playing “divide and conquer” with minority
communities in Syria, the official said, pitting one against the
other and suggesting they have more to fear if another sect
comes to power than if the al-Assad government stays.  The group said minority outreach would be their top
priority, to which they would dedicate significant resources.
They will also focus on detailed planning and diplomacy, the
official said.  Protect Civilians  They asked Clinton to place a very high priority on
addressing the killings in Syria and spoke of the need to
protect civilians in Homs and Hama, scenes of some of the worst
violence during al-Assad’s crackdown on protesters. They told
Clinton of reports that security forces were using rape as a
weapon against men and women and were targeting children.  The fastest way to create “safety zones” for these
civilians would be if Syria would approve the  Arab League ’s
request to send more than 500 observers to the country, the
group told Clinton.  The council believes that, if they can get the observers
into the country, chances are the regime won’t do its worst,
they told Clinton, according to the official.  Clinton had met Syrian opposition figures once previously,
in August, shortly before the U.S. began explicitly calling for
al-Assad to step down.  All seven of the representatives are exiles. Many
opposition figures inside Syria say they are afraid to leave
because they may not be allowed to return.  Mob Violence  Ford was due to arrive back in Syria early today. He was
recalled to Washington from Syria in October, a month after a
violent mob of government supporters hurled concrete blocks at
his car and attacked it with iron bars while Ford visited an
opposition lawyer.  “He will continue the work he was doing previously;
namely, delivering the  United States ’ message to the people of
Syria; providing reliable reporting on the situation on the
ground; and engaging with the full spectrum of Syrian society on
how to end the bloodshed and achieve a peaceful political
transition,” State Department spokesman Mark Toner said in a
statement in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Geneva at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 