-- 
Coca-Cola Says Chinese Child’s Death Wasn’t Caused by Beverage

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-06T03:42:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/coca-cola-says-tests-show-chinese-child-s-death-wasn-t-caused-by-beverage.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, said tests showed that a child’s death after
drinking one of its beverages in Changchun, China, wasn’t caused
by the product.  “Tests and reviews indicate our products are safe and
within standards, and reaffirm the incident is not related to
the quality of our products,” the Atlanta-based company said in
an e-mailed statement today. “We are 100 percent confident that
our products are safe and in good quality.”  Coca-Cola carried out internal reviews of production and
warehousing processes, checked retention samples of production
batches and had tests conducted by the China National Center for
Food Quality Supervision and Testing, according to the
statement. China pledged to intensify food protection after baby
formula tainted with the chemical melamine killed at least six
infants and sickened about 300,000 in 2008.  Minute Maid strawberry-flavored pulpy milk beverages were
temporarily removed from store shelves last week in China’s
 Jilin province  after a child died and an adult became ill after
drinking the Coca-Cola product.  The drink was found safe in government tests of samples,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing the national
food quality center. The beverage was made by Coca-Cola’s
subsidiary in Jilin province, according to Xinhua.  China News Service said last month that the Minute Maid
drinks in question contained pesticide, citing police. At least
five calls to Changchun police’s news office today went
unanswered.  Coca-Cola has been in touch with the families affected by
the child’s death, Joanna Price, the company’s Shanghai-based
spokeswoman, said today by phone. She declined to provide more
information as the investigation is ongoing.  Minute Maid is one of Coca-Cola’s best-selling brands in
 China , according to researcher Euromonitor International.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  