-- 
Colombia, Peru, Chile Bourses Plan Regional Currency Market

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-12-06T18:59:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/colombia-peru-chile-bourses-plan-regional-currency-market-1-.html
Three securities exchanges based in
 Colombia , Peru and  Chile  plan to set up a regional currency
market for foreign-exchange trading.  The exchanges plan to develop a trading platform in which
transactions between currencies in the three countries will be
carried out using the  U.S. dollar  as the common denominator,
Juan Pablo Cordoba, head of Colombia’s main bourse, told
reporters today in Bogota. Trading may start in May.  “We’re sending a strong message that the future of Latin
America is a greater market integration,” he said in a joint
press conference with Francis Stenning, the head of the Lima
stock exchange, and Fernando Canas, president of Chile’s
electronic exchange. “This is a step in that direction.”  While separate, the regional currency market is a
complement to Mila,  Latin America ’s first combined stock trading
platform that was formed by the three countries, Stenning said
at the event. It will allow for better pricing and transparency
in the market, he said.  Mexico  will join the regional currency market once Bolsa
Mexicana de Valores SAB, the operator of the country’s
securities exchange, joins Mila in about six months, Stenning
said. Once the platform is running, other countries in Latin
America, including Brazil, could join, he said.  Investors and traders on the new system will be able to
deal with the counterparties they already have in other
countries and will have to assume the risk that the
counterparties fail to meet the transaction terms, Canas said.  Canas declined to comment on whether the exchanges were
talking to counterparts in  Brazil , saying any such conversations
were confidential. He also declined to give estimates for
volumes on the new system. Canas spoke by phone from Bogota with
reporters in Santiago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  