-- 
Commodities ‘MF Rule,’ Shrinking Loans, Insurers: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-12-06T13:27:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/commodities-mf-rule-shrinking-loans-insurers-pay-compliance.html
U.S. derivatives regulators approved
restrictions on how brokers can invest customer funds, acting on
a delayed rule after as much as $1.2 billion went missing before
 MF Global Holdings Ltd.  sought bankruptcy protection.  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  voted 5-0
yesterday to limit how brokers invest clients’ margin in money
market funds, and ban investments in foreign sovereign debt and
in-house transactions such as repurchase agreements.  CFTC Commissioner Bart Chilton, one of three Democrats on
the five-member panel, pushed for completion of the measure,
which he dubbed the “MF rule.” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said
the regulation is “critical for the safeguarding of customer
money” by preventing in-house repurchase transactions.  Gensler said at the CFTC meeting in Washington that he
believes there is “an inherent conflict of interest between
parts of a firm doing these transactions.”  The rule approved yesterday will overturn a policy,
instituted in 2005, that let brokers invest client funds in in-
house transactions. It will ban such trades by brokers, who earn
interest income by investing funds from segregated accounts,
while allowing third-party deals, according to a CFTC summary.  Brokers will also be permitted to invest client funds in
U.S. Treasuries, municipal debt, money-market funds and debt of
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  as long as the two housing finance
companies are under the conservatorship of the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, according to the summary.  The rule will take effect 60 days after its publication in
the Federal Register. Brokers will then be required to comply
within 180 days.  Gensler delayed the rule in July after being lobbied by
brokers and their executives including Jon S. Corzine, the
former  New Jersey  Governor then serving as MF Global’s chairman
and chief executive officer.  For more, click here, and click here, and see Interviews
section, below.  Compliance Policy  Basel Committee Plans to Discuss Curbs on Bank Borrowing  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision will discuss the
leverage ratio, a standard aimed at curbing excessive borrowing
by lenders, when it meets next week, said Bill Coen, the group’s
deputy secretary general.  Coen made the remarks at the RiskMinds  conference  in Geneva
yesterday. The surcharge on systemically important financial
institutions will also be a “significant issue,” he said.  Global regulators are split over the merits of a leverage
ratio, which acts as a limit on banks’ indebtedness. While the
measure is already applied in the U.S., the European Union
hasn’t included it in proposals to boost the amount of capital
the region’s lenders must hold.  The Basel committee presented draft plans for a leverage
ratio last year with a view to the standard coming into force in
2018 after further study. The proposed limit would require a
bank to have Tier 1 capital equivalent to 3 percent of its
assets.  A spokeswoman for the committee declined to provide further
details on the timing of next week’s meeting, which brings
together bank regulators from 27 countries including the U.S.,
U.K. and China.  There needs to be greater harmonization of financial
regulations, Jose Maria Roldan, director of banking regulation
at the Bank of Spain and a member of the Basel committee, said
in a separate presentation at the conference.  Banks Can’t Shrink Lending to Meet EU Targets, Enria Says  Regulators won’t allow lenders to cut lending to companies
to circumvent tougher European Union capital requirements, the
head of the region’s banking watchdog said.  The  European Banking Authority  is seeking to ensure that
lenders bolster their capital by raising fresh reserves, rather
than by threatening the economy by running down loans, the
agency’s Chairman Andrea Enria said in Brussels yesterday.  European policy makers are trying to avoid triggering a
credit crunch and recession with their plans to force banks to
boost capital. One way for banks to increase their  capital
ratios  is for them to shrink their balance sheets by cutting
lending. Banks are likely to reduce their balance sheets by as
much as 2.5 trillion euros ($3.4 trillion) within the next 18
months,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts said in a report last month.  European leaders are demanding the region’s banks increase
their capital after financial firms agreed to accept losses on
Greek  government bonds . Enria, who described lenders’ shrinkage
in lending, was speaking ahead of the EBA’s release of updated
figures on how much capital lenders should raise to absorb
losses from euro-area bonds.  For more, click here.  Separately, Enria said that EU plans to write down
unsecured creditors at failing banks should exempt debt issued
before a cutoff date. This is needed to prevent the proposals
“exacerbating” difficulties that lenders are facing in getting
funding, he said in Brussels yesterday.  Finance Firms Must Report Rivals’ Suspicious Trades, FSA Says  Finance firms that don’t report a suspicious transaction at
a rival, even if they don’t have proof of wrongdoing, may face a
fine, a lawyer at the U.K. finance regulator said.  Banks and financial institutions in the U.K. aren’t doing
enough to report suspected market abuse, Jamie Symington, the
head of the wholesale group in the Financial Services
Authority’s enforcement division, said in a speech in London.  The regulator has “invested heavily” in enhancing its
surveillance capabilities and will complete a revamp of its
database of market transactions next year, Symington said. Last
month, the FSA enacted rules to ensure that mobile telephone
conversations involving traders were recorded for use in
possible market-abuse probes.  The Financial Conduct Authority, which will take over the
FSA’s enforcement role in 2013 as part of a government
restructuring of U.K. financial regulation, will continue the
FSA’s strategy of credible deterrence, Symington said.  BOE Says Capital-Raising Needs Outweigh Risks of Tapping Market  The Bank of England’s  Financial Policy Committee  said the
need for banks to raise capital to strengthen the resilience of
the financial system outweighs the risks associated with
entering a “stressed market.”  The FPC,  which first made the comments in the record of
its Nov. 23 quarterly meeting, recommended that banks “give
serious consideration” to raising external capital. The
committee “recognized that there were risks associated with
attempting to raise fresh external capital in a stressed market
environment,” it said today in the report in London. “These
concerns were outweighed by the potential benefits of raising
additional capital to the resilience of the system as a whole.”  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King urged banks last week
to enhance efforts to bolster their defenses against the euro
area’s debt turmoil, which now looks like a “systemic crisis.”
The FPC recommended the Financial Services Authority encourage
banks to disclose leverage ratios to investors by the start of
2013, and said that if banks’ earnings aren’t enough to build
capital, they should limit payments of bonuses and dividends.  In today’s record of the meeting, the FPC said that
dividend policy “should be used actively” and it saw a
“strong case for limiting distributions to staff, although this
might not be costless.”  Regulators Face Grilling by Congress on Volcker Rule, Dodd-Frank  Regulators implementing the Dodd-Frank Act face questions
from U.S. lawmakers today over progress on required new rules,
including provisions of a proposal to bar Wall Street firms from
proprietary trading.  The Treasury Department, Federal Reserve and other
financial regulators have spent more than a year drafting rules
required by the law, which also includes new regulations for the
$708 trillion global swaps market, tools to wind down failing
financial firms and enhanced supervisory powers over the largest
and most interconnected companies.  Regulators are working on hundreds of rules required by the
law. Some agencies are struggling to meet deadlines or
postponing rulemakings until 2012 amid budget cuts and strained
resources.  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
argued that her agency won’t be able to do its job without a
bigger budget in 2012.  A draft of the Volcker rule, named for former Federal
Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , released by regulators in October
has drawn criticism from both Democratic and Republican
lawmakers as well as banks. Some say it is too complex and lacks
clarity, others that it is either too tough or too easy on Wall
Street.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Insurers Pay $53 Million in Death Benefits After  New York  Probe  Life insurers paid $52.6 million in death benefits after
New York’s banking and insurance regulator forced the companies
to use government data to identify cases where they hadn’t paid
claims.  Almost 8,000 beneficiaries received the money, according to
a statement yesterday from the  New York Department of Financial
Services . Claims are being processed on an additional 27,889
polices for which matches were found. About 1 million policies
need further checking as a result of the department’s probe,
according to the statement.  Insurers have faced increased scrutiny from regulators in
Florida, California and other states over unpaid death benefits.
 MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, took a $117 million
charge in the third quarter related to unpaid death benefits,
while  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  added about $100 million
to reserves in the second quarter after changing its process for
determining when policyholders die.  The regulator said in July it was directing the 172 life
insurers and fraternal benefit societies licensed in the state
to use U.S. Social Security Administration death records or
other data to identify deceased policyholders. Insurers must
provide interest on delayed payments, the department said. Data
were released yesterday as part of the regulator’s first interim
report on the benefits.  Apple, E-Book Publishers Probed by European Union Regulator  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s biggest technology company, and
five e-book publishers are being investigated by European Union
antitrust regulators over deals that may restrict sales across
the region.  The  European Commission  in Brussels today said it opened a
formal probe to examine whether the publishing groups and Apple,
maker of the iPad tablet computer, engaged in agreements that
would harm competition in the 27-nation EU. The probe will
examine deals between Apple and Lagardere’s Hachette Livre,  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Harper Collins,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster,  Pearson
Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin and Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH.  “The commission has concerns, that these practices may
breach EU antitrust rules that prohibit cartels and restrictive
business practices,” the EU said in a statement.  EU regulators raided e-book publishers in March as part of
the investigation.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest Internet
retailer, may sell as many as 5 million e-book readers in the
fourth quarter, according to a report from Forrester Research
Inc.  Britain’s Office of Fair Trading, which opened an
investigation in February, said in a statement on its website
today that it would drop its probe into e-books to allow EU
officials to take the lead.  “Pearson does not believe it has breached any laws, and
will continue to fully and openly cooperate with the
commission,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Apple, Lagardere, CBS and its Simon & Schuster unit and
Harper Collins didn’t immediately respond to calls and e-mails
seeking comment. Holtzbrinck didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Courts  Deutsche Bank Sued for Billions Over Fund’s Currency Losses  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  faces a claim that may be worth billions
of dollars in a lawsuit with investment fund Sebastian Holdings
Inc. over failed foreign exchange transactions.  Sebastian said in court papers in London that Germany’s
largest bank allowed a trader to breach currency-trading limits
between 2006 and 2008. Sebastian, owned and run by Norwegian
investor Alexander Vik, said it suffered losses and missed out
on profits worth about $2.5 billion when it had to meet margin
calls and close out positions because of the dispute.  Deutsche Bank said in an e-mailed statement that it will
“vigorously” defend against the claims, which it noted date to
2008.  Deutsche Bank is pursuing Sebastian in the U.K. courts for
$245 million in unpaid margin calls from the period. Sebastian
has filed a “substantial” counterclaim valued at several
billion dollars, its lawyer, Tim Lord, said at a pretrial
hearing in London on Nov. 21.  The dispute relates to “exotic derivatives” and the
breakdown of prime brokerage services provided by Deutsche Bank,
Lord said in November. Sebastian was seeking additional
documents from Deutsche Bank’s Swiss unit ahead of a trial in
London.  The case is: Deutsche Bank AG v. Sebastian Holdings Inc,
09-83, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial
Court  Raj Rajaratnam Begins 11-Year Sentence In Federal Prison  Raj Rajaratnam, the co-founder of Galleon Group LLC
convicted of insider trading, was set to report yesterday to a
federal prison in Ayer, Massachusetts, according to a person
familiar with his assignment.  Rajaratnam was expected to be fingerprinted, photographed,
strip-searched and issued a number to serve as his identity at
the federal prison.  Though his prison could be changed at the last minute, the
convicted co-founder of Galleon Group LLC -- two former inmates
and an ex-U.S. prison official agreed -- faces very hard time.  Rajaratnam, 54, was sentenced in October after a federal
jury in Manhattan found him guilty of 14 counts of securities
fraud and conspiracy. He directed colleagues, consultants and
corporate officers to leak information that made him tens of
millions of dollars.  His was the longest sentence ever handed down for such a
crime, and the culmination of a four-year nationwide probe of
insider trading. Last week, a three-judge panel rejected his
last-minute plea to remain free while he appeals his conviction.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Mishcon Partner Convicted in $29 Million Loan Fraud, SFO Says  A former partner at the London law firm  Mishcon de Reya  was
convicted of fraud and forgery to get a 22 million-euro ($29.6
million) bank loan from a unit of Zurich-based  EFG International
AG. (EFGN)   Kevin Steele, 51, was found guilty yesterday at a London
criminal court of helping to obtain a loan in 2008 by stating
there was 76 million pounds ($119 million) on deposit at Bank
Julius Baer in Guernsey that could be used as security for the
loan, the Serious Fraud Office, which prosecuted the case, said
in a statement yesterday.  Two other defendants in the case pleaded guilty before
trial. The three men will be sentenced Jan. 9, the SFO said.  Interviews/Speeches  Atkins Says Corzine Needs to Address MF Funds Issue  Paul Atkins, managing director of  Patomak Partners  and a
former commissioner at the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, talked about the collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) 
and a vote yesterday by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
to restrict how brokers can invest customer funds.  Atkins spoke on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With
Margaret Brennan.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 