-- 
Congress Seeks Deal Amid Partisan Bickering on U.S. Payroll Tax

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-12-07T16:55:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/congress-seeks-deal-amid-partisan-bluster-over-paying-for-payroll-tax-cut.html
Even as they exchange partisan
proposals, congressional leaders are trying to put together a
package of year-end tax and spending provisions that can be
enacted, including an extension of the payroll tax cut.  A final deal may not emerge until the week of Dec. 12,
because the U.S. House of Representatives won’t vote on its plan
until then. Senate leaders are focusing on a Dec. 9 vote on a
Democratic proposal that Republicans already have rejected.  “There’s a final package out here,” said Senator  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican. “There are clearly well over 60
votes for extending this in some way, so you’d be wise to assume
it probably gets extended. But it would probably have to have an
incredibly attractive set of other issues with it before I’d
vote for it.”  Blunt’s comments underscore some of the year-end challenges
facing congressional leaders. Many lawmakers agree that the 2
percentage point cut in the payroll tax for employees, which
expires Dec. 31, should be extended through 2012. They agree
that Congress should continue expanded  unemployment benefits  and
prevent Medicare reimbursements from being cut in January.  They disagree over how to offset the cost to the  U.S.
Treasury  and on what other provisions should be added.  ‘Constructive’ Talks  Richard Durbin , the second-ranking Senate Democrat, said
yesterday that House and Senate leaders were having a
“constructive conversation” to chart a path to passage. He
said Republicans, including House Speaker  John Boehner , will
need to adopt an approach that includes Democrats.  “I hope he accepts the reality that we need bipartisan
votes over here to make it happen, and a bipartisan vote in the
House may be the eventual outcome,” said Durbin of  Illinois .  House Republicans  don’t plan to vote on payroll tax-cut
legislation until the week of Dec. 12, said Laena Fallon, a
spokeswoman for Majority Leader  Eric Cantor .  Cantor, a Virginia Republican, said in an interview
yesterday there was still “a lot under discussion” and that
House leaders would present options to Republicans before the
end of the week. Cantor predicted the leaders would be able to
persuade their rank-and-file members to support the measure they
craft, which he said would include spending cuts.  “Unlike Senate Democrats who are busy trying to find ways
to raise taxes, Leader Cantor is committed to ensuring that no
one faces a tax increase in these tough economic times,” Fallon
said in an e-mail.  Giving Members Time  In a press conference this morning, Boehner said
Republicans won’t release a proposal until the caucus has had a
chance to weigh in.  “We’re continuing to talk to members,” he told reporters.
“It’s important for us to have these deliberations with our
colleagues before we introduce a bill.”  Some Republicans are urging Boehner to include a one-time
tax holiday that would allow multinational companies to
repatriate offshore profits to the U.S. at a lower  tax rate ,
Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, said as he
left a party meeting this morning.  “If it’s a one-time” holiday, “it’s best in a year-end
package,” Issa said.  Support for Repatriation  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp, a
Michigan Republican, has said he supports repatriation as part
of a comprehensive tax code overhaul. He has introduced draft
legislation that would exempt 95 percent of profits earned
offshore from U.S. taxation.  Representative Richard Neal, a Massachusetts Democrat who
sits on the Ways and Means panel, said today that it would be
difficult for lawmakers to advance a tax-code rewrite if
repatriation is taken off the table.  “If you give up now and accept what might be a short-term
bonanza or holiday, it’s going to be far harder to get  tax
reform ,” he said.  Meanwhile, Senate Democrats are planning a Dec. 9 vote on a
plan to cover the revenue with a 1.9 percent surtax on annual
 income  exceeding $1 million, which Republicans have declared
unacceptable. The Democratic bill would cut the  payroll tax  for
employees to 3.1 percent for 2012. The current 4.2 percent tax
for employees expires Dec. 31, and the rate is scheduled to
return to 6.2 percent.  Obama’s Plea  “We need to extend a payroll tax cut that’s set to expire
at the end of this month,” President  Barack Obama  said
yesterday in Osawatomie,  Kansas . “If we don’t do that, 160
million Americans, including most of the people here, will see
their taxes go up by an average of $1,000 starting in January
and it would badly weaken our recovery.”  Obama will meet today with Democratic Senate leaders, the
White House said.  McConnell said this week’s planned vote on the Democratic
proposal was “another show vote designed to fail.” Republicans
would announce an alternative “later in the week” and seek a
vote on the new plan, he said.  Behind the public recriminations, lawmakers see potential
routes to a deal.  “But the real vote will be before we leave here,”
McConnell said.  The path ahead will be complicated by demands from both
parties.  “Year-end packages are always difficult,” Representative
 Tom Price , a Georgia Republican, told reporters. “You know
that. That isn’t anything new.”  House Democrats  say Congress should pay for the bill by
using money designated for the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
that money should be used to offset the cost of the  Medicare 
provision.  McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said a final bill should
include job-creating proposals, such as a law expediting
construction of the Keystone XL pipeline from  Canada .  “If there’s any shovel-ready project in America, this is
it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  