-- 
Consumers No Scrooge With Sale of Seasonal Decor in U.S.: Retail

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-12-06T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/consumers-no-scrooge-with-sale-of-seasonal-decor-in-u-s-retail.html
Peggy Curtis spent Thanksgiving week
out of work, the first layoff in her 37 years making cigarettes
in a Reidsville,  North Carolina , factory. Instead of moping, she
went shopping for holiday decorations at  Home Depot Inc. (HD)   “The economy is tough, but that’s not going to stop me,”
said Curtis, 58, whose $600 spree so far includes enough lights
to illuminate nine Crape Myrtle shrubs. “I love Christmas.”  With little to cheer about these days -- 8.6 percent
unemployment, fears of European contagion -- Americans are
splurging on LED lights, 16-foot-tall inflatable Santas and pre-
decorated artificial trees. This year U.S. consumers will spend
$6 billion on decorations, the most in at least seven years,
according to the  National Retail Federation , which began
tracking the data in 2005.  Home Depot, the world’s largest home-improvement retailer,
and second-biggest  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  are trying to capitalize on the
holidays, boosting orders for trees and decorations to help
offset sinking demand for appliances amid projections that
housing prices will keep falling next year.  “This is a business we should own,” Home Depot Chief
Financial Officer Carol Tome said by telephone from Atlanta,
where the company is based. “We were selling the most trees of
any retailer in America, but we weren’t offering the ornaments
or the light strings or the tree stands. So we expanded our
assortment.”  Holiday decor sales may climb 8.1 percent this year, rising
for a second straight year, according to the Washington-based
NRF, citing an October survey of consumers by BIGresearch. More
than 68 percent of consumers may indulge, the highest level in
three years, the NRF said.  Fourth-Quarter Sales  Pushing trees, ornaments and lights will help fourth-
quarter sales at Home Depot and Lowe’s,  Joe Feldman , an analyst
at Telsey Advisory Group in  New York , said yesterday. Typically
the last quarter of the year is the slowest for the home-
improvement chains, generating about 22 percent of revenue.  Shoppers are drawn by new technology, Lowe’s Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Niblock  said in an interview. Hot
sellers include solar-powered lights, LED bulbs that keep
burning even if one breaks and a $99 gadget that makes lights
blink in time with “Jingle Bells” and other carols.  Thomas Schuitema, who owns the Broadway Bar & Grill in
 Grand Rapids ,  Michigan , “had to have” a string of LED lights
that create the effect of snow falling down each bulb. They cost
$160 and now adorn his restaurant.  “They just caught my eye,” said Schuitema, who has been
decorating the eatery for 18 of his 54 years.  Inflatable Decorations  During the past decade, home-improvement stores have taken
advantage of their size -- 10 times bigger than the typical
drugstore -- to grab sales with ever-growing displays of trees
and inflatable decorations, said Scott Manning, Home Depot’s
merchandising vice president in charge of seasonal items.  Since selling its first cut tree 26 years ago, Home Depot
has given holiday decor more space and stepped up marketing. It
displays garlands and ornaments at store entrances and last
month gave buyers of more-efficient LED lights a $5 rebate for
trading in their old incandescent strands.  At a Lowe’s in Greensboro, North Carolina, an inflatable
Santa waves and nods at shoppers entering the store. It’s new
this year, as is a blow-up Santa and sleigh at Home Depot, which
has boosted holiday sales every year through the economic slump,
said Jean Niemi, a company spokeswoman.  Inflatable Santa gets around. He drives motorcycles and
airplanes and helicopters. At Lowe’s, he looms over the entrance
to the garden center. Inside the store, up on a shelf, an
outhouse door pops open and Santa pops out, with an elf holding
his nose.  Cut Trees  Home Depot has boosted sales of holiday merchandise by 
three times in the past six years, Manning said. It sells the 
most cut trees, more than 2.5 million in 2010, and bought about 
10 percent more this year. He declined to provide sales figures.  Lowe’s, based in Mooresville, North Carolina, increased
holiday orders by 5 percent to 10 percent in each of the past
two years after “pulling back” on the bet consumers would buy
fewer non-essential items including decorations, Niblock said.  Americas are looking to “create something positive,”
Manning said. “People are staying closer to home. There is so
much negative news out there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  