-- 
Santander Sells 95% of Colombia Unit for $1.16 Billion to Raise Capital

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-12-07T10:08:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/corpbanca-to-buy-95-of-banco-santander-colombia-for-1-16-bln.html
Banco Santander (SAN)  SA agreed to sell a
95 percent stake in its Colombian unit to CorpBanca for about
$1.16 billion, raising money to reinforce capital at the euro
zone’s biggest bank by market value.  CorpBanca,  Chile ’s sixth-largest lender by assets, will
finance the purchase with its own resources and a $450 million
capital increase, according to a statement distributed by
MarketWire yesterday. The Santander, Spain-based bank will make
a capital gain of about 615 million euros ($827 million) that
“will be fully allocated to reinforce the group’s balance
sheet,” Banco Santander said in its own statement.  As European regulators tightened rules to shore up banks
against the sovereign debt crisis, Santander said Oct. 27 it
would bolster capital without selling stock or cutting its
dividend. The Spanish lender had already announced sales of
stakes in its Brazilian bank, its Latin American insurance
business, and 7.8 percent of its Chilean unit as it strives to
plug a 5.22 billion-euro ($7 billion) capital shortfall
identified by the European Banking Authority.  “They are selling ‘revenues’ to generate capital, but
given the options I think it’s a reasonable response to the
capital needs,” Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura
International in  Madrid .  Colombia  accounted for 0.5 percent of group profit last
year and the bank has a 2.7 percent market share in the country,
according to Santander. That makes the sale “positive, as they
benefit by generating additional capital with no real change in
the make-up of the business,” Quinn said.  Shares Climb  Banco Santander shares rose 1 percent, bringing their gain
for December to 7.7 percent at 11:05 a.m. in Madrid.  Spain ’s
benchmark Ibex 35 index rose 1 percent. Santander has said it
will strive for a 10 percent core capital ratio under European
criteria by June 2012, exceeding the 9 percent level demanded by
the regulator.  Colombia,  Latin America ’s fifth-largest economy, probably
grew 4.9 percent this year and may expand 4.5 percent in 2012,
according to the International  Monetary  Fund. That compares with
the Washington-based lender’s forecasts for Spanish growth of
0.8 percent this year and 1.1 percent in 2012.  The acquisition will make  CorpBanca (CORPBANC) , based in Santiago and
controlled entrepreneur Alvaro Saieh, the first Chilean
financial services company to own a foreign bank. The deal is
subject to regulatory approval in Chile and Colombia and is
expected to close in the first half of 2012.  Colombia ‘Attractive’  “With this acquisition, CorpBanca aims at supporting
Chilean companies in their expansion through Latin America and
participating in the growing Colombian banking industry, one of
the most attractive worldwide,” it said.  Banco Santander Colombia’s lending portfolio totaled $2.57
billion as of Sept. 20, representing 2.7 percent of the banking
system’s outstanding loans.  Corp Group Interhold, through which Saieh Group controls
CorpBanca and other financial companies, will also buy at least
a 2.85 percent stake of  Banco Santander  Colombia, under the
agreement.  Separately, Santo Domingo Group, a Colombian holding
company, will invest $100 million in CorpBanca to help the
company “execute its growth strategy,” the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  