-- 
Corporate Taxes Fail to Follow Profit Rebound

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-12-06T05:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/corporate-taxes-fail-to-follow-profit-rebound-to-pre-08-highs.html
U.S. companies such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
Johnson & Johnson are paying less tax than before the recession
even as profits have rebounded, buoyed by breaks and expansion
in overseas markets, where the tax burden is lower.  Cash tax payments by non-financial companies in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 13.2 percent to $222 billion in
2010 from 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while
net income rose 12.5 percent to $612 billion. Cash taxes are the
amount paid in taxes to all jurisdictions in a given year.  The pattern has implications for the U.S. government and
for companies, said  Jim Paulsen , chief investment strategist at
Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management. With domestic job
growth still anemic, Congress may want to keep tax breaks such
as accelerated depreciation, while companies may continue growth
outside the U.S. because of strong demand, Paulsen said.  “In this recovery, there are so much more foreign profits
as a proportion of the total for the large companies,” said
Paulsen, whose firm manages about $340 billion. “There are just
greater business opportunities abroad with the emerging world
growing faster.”  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates that U.S.
 receipts  from corporate income will drop to $181 billion in
fiscal 2011 from $191 billion in 2010, and rebound to $279
billion in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 2012. Corporate tax
collections were $353.9 billion in fiscal 2006 and $370.2
billion in fiscal 2007.  The decline since 2007 adds to the pressure on Congress as
lawmakers squabble over how to narrow the U.S. budget deficits.  Offsetting Current Taxes  Some of the drop in tax receipts can be traced to the 18-
month recession through June 2009 and longstanding provisions of
the U.S. tax code that allow companies to use losses from lean
years to offset their current taxes.  Corporate earnings also have been boosted by Congress’s
move in 2008 to increase by 50 percent the amount of
depreciation for  capital spending  that can be deducted in one
year. The measure, designed to stimulate spending and create
jobs, was raised to 100 percent expensing in September 2010. The
accelerated depreciation write-down is set to revert to 50
percent in 2012.  “Especially for companies like AT&T and Verizon that are
capital-intensive, the government put in place tax shelters in
an effort to get them to accelerate some of their capital
spending, and they’ve certainly benefited,” said Ben Abramovitz, an analyst with Kaufman Brothers LP in  New York , who
has a hold recommendation on AT&T.  AT&T posted profit of $19.9 billion in 2010 and paid cash
taxes of $3.5 billion, lower than taxes of $4 billion in 2007 on
net income of $12 billion.  Capital Spending  It’s unclear how much the tax break enticed companies to
boost capital spending. Companies in the  S&P 500 , excluding
financial corporations, reported less spending in 2009 and 2010
than peak capital spending of $523 billion in 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. In the past 12 months, spending has
rebounded to $535 billion.  “It’s really in the best interest of the economy for the
U.S. government to entice those companies to spend on something
that creates a long-term economic benefit and that primarily is
infrastructure in the country,” Abramovitz said.  Dallas-based AT&T’s capital expenditures fell in 2009 to
$16.6 billion from $19.7 billion the previous year. Spending
rebounded to $19.5 billion in 2010 and is forecast to reach
$20.1 billion this year for the second-largest U.S. wireless
provider and largest U.S. telephone company, according to the
average estimate from 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Lingering Effect  The effect of net losses on cash taxes can linger for years
because companies can gradually deduct them from subsequent
profits, said  Michelle Hanlon , associate professor of accounting
at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology in Cambridge.  After eliminating non-financial companies that had losses
in 2008 and 2009, cash taxes for S&P 500 members fell to $200
billion in 2010 from $217 billion three years earlier. Profit in
those periods rose to $547 billion from $512 billion, according
to the data compiled by Bloomberg.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s cash tax bill dropped to $2.4 billion
last year from $4.1 billion in 2007 while net income rose to
$12.3 billion from $10.6 billion. Part of the reason for the
reduced tax bill of the world’s second-biggest seller of health
products is expansion in countries such as China, Brazil and
 India , where the corporate  tax rate  is lower than the U.S., said
 Jeff Jonas , an analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York.  Growth Outside U.S.  “The bulk of their growth has come outside of the U.S.,”
said Jonas, who has a buy recommendation on  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J. “They really stepped up their investment in
 emerging markets .”  Profits earned abroad are levied at rates in those
jurisdictions, with a credit given for foreign taxes paid, and
aren’t subject to U.S. taxes until brought home.  At  Danaher Corp. (DHR) , a maker of medical and measurement
equipment, the percentage of revenue from emerging markets
jumped to 22 percent from 10 percent in 2005. That share may
climb to 40 percent over time, Chief Executive Officer Larry Culp said in a Nov. 8 presentation to analysts.  “Companies are even more aggressive in terms of
identifying the countries in which they earn the income,” said
 Robert Willens , a corporate tax consultant in New York.
“They’re able to shift more profits to tax haven kind of
countries that have lower rates.”  Bringing Profits Home  The catch is that multinational companies can’t repatriate
those profits to the U.S. without paying corporate tax on them.
With a top corporate U.S. rate of 35 percent, cash held abroad
has been piling up. About $20 billion of Johnson & Johnson’s $31
billion in cash and short-term investments is held outside the
U.S., Jonas said.  U.S. companies, including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,
are pushing for a tax break to repatriate more than $1 trillion
of earnings held abroad. Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer  and Oracle
Co-President Safra Catz were among 15 executives who signed a
letter to congressional leaders to urge a tax holiday on
overseas income, which would “immediately inject significant
private-sector investment” into the economy.  Congress in 2004 temporarily reduced taxes on overseas
profits to 5.25 percent to spur companies to repatriate cash.
Johnson & Johnson would jump at a repeat of that offer, Jonas
said.  “Because of all these strategies and all their
international growth, the bulk of their cash is outside of the
U.S., and they’d be more than happy to bring it back at a 5 or 8
percent tax rate,” he said. “They’re not willing to bring it
back at a 35 percent rate.”  Tax Code Overhaul  The incentive companies have to invest overseas underscores
the need for a U.S. tax-code overhaul that would lower corporate
rates, said Gary Flam, who helps manage $6.5 billion for Bel Air
Investment Advisors LLC in Los Angeles. Investors cheer lower
cash taxes, he said.  “It means there’s more  cash flow  for investors,” Flam
said. “As shareholders, from a capitalistic standpoint, you
want your companies to maximize cash flow because that’s how you
maximize value.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net  and
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ; 