-- 
Cuomo Reaches Deal With New York Lawmakers to Raise Tax Rate on Wealthiest

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-12-06T22:47:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/cuomo-reaches-deal-with-new-york-lawmakers-to-raise-tax-rate-on-wealthiest.html
New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and
legislative leaders reached an agreement to temporarily raise
the  tax rate  on wealthy earners and cut taxes for those earning
less than $300,000 as part of a plan to generate about $2
billion in revenue.  The deal also establishes a fund that would combine $1
billion in public cash with money from private pension funds and
investors to improve New York’s infrastructure. Cuomo released
the plan today in an e-mailed statement jointly sent by Senate
Majority Leader  Dean Skelos  and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver.  Employers in the 12 counties surrounding  New York City 
would also see a cut in the portion of their payroll taxes used
to support the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority .  The Assembly may vote on the deal tomorrow after Silver
said he recommended the Democratic majority approve it. Senate
Republicans, who hold a one-vote edge, are to meet tomorrow to
discuss the proposal.  “This job-creating economic plan defies the political
gridlock that has paralyzed  Washington  and shows that we can
make government work for the people of this state once again,”
Cuomo said in a statement.  First-Term Victories  If the deal is approved by lawmakers, it will become the
latest legislative victory for Cuomo, a 54-year-old first-term
Democrat. During the session that ended in June, Cuomo pushed
through an on-time budget that closed a $10 billion gap, an
ethics package, a property-tax cap and a bill that legalized
same-sex marriage in the third-most-populous U.S. state.  Last week, the governor said revenue is “collapsing” amid
shrinking Wall Street bonuses and job cuts in the finance
industry, which accounted for more than 20 percent of wages paid
by businesses in 2010.  New York  has projected a $3.5 billion
deficit in fiscal 2013, which begins April 1, and a $350 million
gap this year. It’s one of four states, along with California,
Missouri and Washington, to report midyear budget deficits,
according to the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  The new  tax code  would generate $1.9 billion in additional
revenue while also cutting taxes for 4.4 million middle-class
residents by $690 million, Cuomo said. A 2009 surcharge on those
who earn $200,000 or more that’s set to expire Dec. 31 generated
about $4 billion a year, according to the Budget Division.  Under the permanent tax code, those who earned $20,000 or
more were taxed at 6.85 percent, the same as someone who made
$20 million. The proposed changes create new brackets. The
first, from $40,000 to $150,000, would be taxed at 6.45 percent.
Those who earn from $150,000 to $300,000 would have a 6.65
percent rate, and earners from $300,000 to $2 million would be
taxed at 6.85 percent.  Top Bracket  The top bracket, $2 million or more, would rise to 8.82
percent and expire in December 2014. Under the expiring
surcharge, known as the millionaire’s tax, those earning more
than $500,000 were taxed at 8.97 percent. Cuomo opposed a push
by fellow Democrats to extend the millionaire’s tax.  “New York has left the middle class with an undue burden
which also hinders economic recovery,” Cuomo said in a
statement yesterday. “Fairness dictates that the more you make,
the more you pay and the higher your income the higher your
rate.”  Tough Sell  Skelos will have to sell the idea to fellow Republicans in
the Senate, who have previously stood against tax increases.
Because the plan cuts taxes on the middle class and reduces the
rate for wealthy earners to below the expiring surcharge, Skelos
can describe it as a  tax cut .  “This comprehensive plan will reduce the tax rate for
middle-class families to their lowest levels in more than 50
years,” Skelos said in the statement.  The overhaul has support from the Civil Service Employees
Association, the state’s largest union, President Danny Donohue
said in a statement.  “The agreement will produce practical benefits for all  New
Yorkers ,” Donohue said. In August, the association agreed to
wage freezes and furloughs to cut costs. The deal, combined with
an agreement with the Public Employees Federation, the state’s
second-biggest union, helped save $450 million.  The tax deal is a “step in the right direction, but
unfortunately falls short in obtaining the goal of a fair tax
system,” Federation President Ken Brynien said in an e-mailed
statement  ‘Wind of Change’  On Dec. 3, PEF encouraged its members to go door-to-door to
build support for extending the expiring millionaire’s tax.
Called “Knock for the 99%,” the campaign played on a reference
to the Occupy Wall Street movement, which has seized on
economist  Joseph Stiglitz ’s research that found the richest 1
percent of Americans control 40 percent of the wealth.  The deal “acknowledges that there’s a wind of change out
there and is a reflection of that,” said Assembly Majority
Leader Ron Canestrari after a party caucus meeting today.  The changes are part of a wider initiative to stimulate the
economy that also includes the infrastructure fund and an
agreement among Cuomo, Skelos and Silver to put up for a vote a
constitutional amendment allowing casino gambling.  That would help “recapture revenue that is currently being
lost to other states,” Cuomo wrote yesterday. Indian casinos
already operate within New York’s borders, and  slot machines  are
allowed at race tracks.  Neighboring  New Jersey  already has casinos in  Atlantic City .
Last month, Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick signed a bill
that allows three casinos to open.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  