-- 
Cuomo Joins Brown Seizing Chance to Tap Tax-the-Rich Sentiment

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-12-06T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/cuomo-joins-brown-in-seizing-on-occupy-movement-s-tax-the-rich-sentiment.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  and
 New York ’s  Andrew Cuomo  are seizing on a core sentiment of the
Occupy Wall Street movement in seeking higher taxes on the
wealthy to offset cuts in education and government programs.  The governors of the first- and third-biggest states by
population took aim at the affluent in proposals yesterday.
Brown said he’d ask voters to raise income taxes on individuals
making more than $250,000 a year and boost the sales levy. Cuomo
said he wants an income-tax overhaul that would place a higher
burden on top earners.  “The  occupiers’  message is much more popular than the
movement itself,’’ said  Dan Schnur , director of the Unruh
Institute of Politics at the University of  Southern California ,
in  Los Angeles . “For Brown or Cuomo to take the least-strident
aspects of the occupiers’ agenda -- separated from the occupiers
themselves -- presents them with a political opportunity that
might not have been there a year or two ago.”  U.S. states slashed payrolls to close $91 billion in
cumulative gaps in fiscal 2012 budgets, after  tax revenue  was
slammed by the longest recession since the Great Depression,
according to the  National Conference of State Legislatures .
California, the most populous, may face a $13 billion deficit,
while New York, the third-largest, projects a $3.5 billion gap.  Demonstrations that started as Occupy Wall Street in New
York on Sept. 17 have spread to cities on four continents.
Protesters refer to themselves as “the 99 percent,” a
reference to economist  Joseph Stiglitz ’s study showing the
richest 1 percent of Americans control 40 percent of the wealth.  ‘Undue Burden’  “ New York  has left the middle class with an undue burden
which also hinders economic recovery,” Cuomo, 54, said in an
opinion column sent to news organizations yesterday. A $20,000-
a-year earner is taxed at 6.85 percent, the same as one who
makes $20 million, he said. The state’s lowest rate is 4
percent.  “Fairness dictates that the more you make, the more you
pay, and the higher your income, the higher your rate,” Cuomo
said.  Brown, 73, yesterday proposed raising levies on individuals
making $250,000 a year or more to 10.3 percent, from 9.3
percent. For those earning $300,000 to $500,000, it would climb
to 10.8 percent. For single filers with income above $500,000,
the rate would climb to 11.3 percent. Californians with income
of more than $1 million are now taxed at 10.3 percent.  California ’s statewide sales-tax rate would rise to 7.75
percent from the current 7.25 percent. All of the increases
would raise $7 billion to go toward education and expire in
2017, Brown said.  $12 Billion Cut  Brown and lawmakers cut more than $12 billion in proposed
spending to help balance the $86 billion general-fund budget for
the year that started July 1. He failed to win legislative
approval to extend $11 billion of higher taxes and fees, since
expired.  State officials have said that a sluggish economic recovery
is unlikely to produce $3.7 billion in revenue Brown built into
the current budget. A shortfall of that size would trigger
automatic mid-year spending cuts to schools, universities,
social services and public safety.  “I am going directly to the voters because I don’t want to
get bogged down in partisan gridlock as happened this year,”
the governor said in a statement.  Multiple Brackets  Cuomo’s plan would create multiple brackets with rates
increasing on a graduated basis and indexed to inflation, he
said. Brackets would be added for middle- and high-income
earners, and rates would span several percentage points from
high to low.  Cuomo, who closed a $10 billion deficit this year, supports
letting his state’s so-called millionaire’s tax lapse, which
prompted the Occupy  Wall Street  protest movement to deride him
as “Governor 1 Percent.”  In  Washington  state, Democratic Governor Christine Gregoire, seeking to close a $2 billion deficit, last month
asked the Legislature to let voters decide on a 0.5 percentage
point increase in the  state sales tax , to 7 percent, to help
avert cuts that would shorten the school year and reduce support
for colleges.  Mark DiCamillo, director of the Field Poll, a nonpartisan
sampler of opinion in California, said surveys have shown that
voters support higher taxes on the wealthy and also so-called
sin taxes on alcohol and tobacco.  “It’s a lot easier for voters to say they are going to
support a tax that isn’t going to affect them, if additional
monies are needed,” he said  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net .
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  