-- 
Da Vinci Star Power, Nude Ai Weiwei, Oscar’s Scrub Enliven 2011

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-12-06T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/da-vinci-star-power-nude-ai-weiwei-clean-oscar-mark-2011-martin-gayford.html
Although  Leonardo da Vinci  died
almost half a millennium ago, he has had a great year. The
success of his show at the  National Gallery  in London has been
sensational.  Tickets, which the museum sells at 16 pounds ($25), had
been changing hands on Internet sites for as much as 400 pounds
(until the museum declared the resold versions invalid). The
line for admission each day is 3 hours long. Who would have
imagined that an old master could generate this level of
excitement? Or that the staid National Gallery would outshine
 Tate  and the whole galaxy of contemporary art in terms of glitz?  Things also have looked up for  Oscar Wilde  and Jacob
Epstein. Wilde’s tomb, carved by Epstein and sited in the
cemetery of Pere-Lachaise, Paris, has just been cleaned of
graffiti. Much of this took the form of lipstick left by
admirers kissing the monument.  Such adulation, even if damaging on conservation grounds,
was a dramatic turnaround in itself. Wilde (1854-1900) died in
exile, poverty stricken and reviled after serving a prison
sentence for homosexual acts. The author’s tomb, designed by the
sculptor Epstein, features an angel in quasi-Assyrian style.  This monument caused consternation when it arrived in Paris
in 1912 on account of the prominence of the angel’s testicles.
The French authorities had the sculpture covered with a
tarpaulin until World War I; in 1961, these pendulous pieces of
stone were hacked off the tomb.  Missing Parts  According to one story, the vandals were two outraged
British ladies and the fragments were subsequently used by the
custodian as paperweights. Perhaps now there should be a
concerted search for these missing angelic body parts so that
poor Oscar can rest completely in peace.  The asymmetrical conflict between the artist Ai Weiwei and
the Chinese government is continuing, and it’s still too early
to call the winner. It has been far from fun for Ai himself. His
81-day detention earlier in the year caused a global furor.
Subsequently, he has been pursued for “economic crimes.”  On Nov. 18, one of his assistants was interrogated about a
(fairly demure) photograph he had taken of Ai, nude, with four
naked women (titled “One Tiger, Eight Breasts”). The
authorities suggested that this was pornography. In response,
Ai’s supporters rapidly uploaded naked photographs of themselves
on a site in a protest, insisting that nudity is not
pornography.  Artist’s Clout  In PR terms, therefore, there’s no question that Ai is
light years ahead. Already, he has been selected as the most
powerful figure in the international art world by Art Review
magazine (the only artist previously to make the No. 1 spot in
the art world Power 100 list was  Damien Hirst ). Time magazine
also named Ai in its roster of the 100 most influential
individuals alive.  Eighteen months ago, he was known mainly to art-world
insiders. Persecuting cultural figures is a bad idea. The papacy
hasn’t recovered from the reputational damage caused by the
trial of Galileo. That was in 1633. The Chinese state should
take note.  Lastly, and sadly, a clear loser in 2011 was the  Musee
d’Art Moderne  in Paris. In May 2010, works by Picasso, Matisse,
Modigliani and others valued at 100 million euros ($1.35
million) were stolen from the gallery. In October, one of the
thieves told a French newspaper that when his accomplices were
captured he panicked and dumped the canvases in a garbage bin,
after which they were presumably crushed. The only hope is that
perhaps he is lying.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 