-- 
Datatel Sets Rate on $1.195 Billion of Buyout Loans

-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 
2011-12-06T20:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/datatel-sets-rate-on-1-195-billion-of-buyout-loans-correct-.html
(Corrects  term loan  maturity date in second paragraph)  Datatel Inc. , the  software company 
owned by Hellman & Friedman LLC, set the  interest rate  on $1.195
billion of loans it’s seeking to finance its acquisition of
SunGard Higher Education, according to a person with knowledge
of the transaction.  A $1.07 billion term loan B due in 2018, will pay 5
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the terms
are private. Libor, a rate banks charge to lend to each other,
will have a 1.25 percent floor.  Datatel is proposing to sell the loan at 98 cents on the
dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the company and
boosting the yield to investors.  Lenders are being offered one-year soft-call protection of
101 cents, meaning Datatel would have to pay 1 cent more than
face value to refinance the debt during the first year, the
person said.  The Fairfax, Virginia-based company is also seeking a $125
million revolving line of credit due in five years that will pay
4.75 percentage points more than Libor, the person said.  Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., Credit
Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are arranging the
financing and lenders must submit commitments by Dec. 14. The
deal is expected to close and fund in the second quarter of 2012
subject to regulatory approval.  Hellman & Friedman will acquire the SunGard Higher
Education businesses from SunGard Data Systems Inc. for $1.775
billion and combine them with Datatel, according to an Aug. 5
statement distributed by  Business Wire .  Mary Beth Grover, a spokeswoman for Hellman & Friedman,
declined to comment.  A term loan B is sold mainly to non-bank lenders such as
collateralized loan obligations, bank loan mutual funds and
 hedge funds . In a revolving credit facility, money can be
borrowed again once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  