-- 
BP, Bayer, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan, HSBC in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-12-06T11:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/deutsche-bank-jpmorgan-anz-hsbc-rajaratnam-in-court-news.html
BP Plc  accused a unit of Halliburton
Co. of intentionally destroying evidence that could be used to
prove the oilfield services firm shares blame for the blowout
that caused the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill.  Halliburton Energy Services (HAL)  Inc. destroyed test results
that showed samples of the cement used to seal London-based BP’s
Macondo well, which exploded off the Louisiana coast last year,
were unstable, BP said in a filing yesterday in federal court in
New Orleans.  The oilfield services provider also suppressed computer
models that might prove Halliburton was at fault “because it
wanted to eliminate any risk that this evidence would be used
against it at trial,” BP said in the filing.  BP asked the court to find that Halliburton destroyed
evidence on purpose and to compel the company to turn over for
third-party examination the computer used for the modeling.  “Halliburton is reviewing the details of the motion filed
today,” Beverly Stafford, a Halliburton spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. “However, we believe that the conclusion that BP is
asking the court to draw is without merit, and we look forward
to contesting their motion in court.”  BP and Halliburton are suing each other over which
company’s actions and decisions caused the blowout, which killed
11 workers and sparked the worst offshore oil spill in U.S.
history. The two companies face more than 350 lawsuits by
coastal property owners and businesses claiming billions in
damages from the spill.  Halliburton has raised two primary defenses against
allegations it shares blame for the blowout, BP said in the
filing. First, the contractor maintains its foaming cement
formula was stable and performed as designed, BP said. Second,
Halliburton claims BP chose to use too few “centralizers” to
keep the pipe aligned in the well, which allowed hydrocarbons to
escape through channels that formed in the cement liner, BP
said.  BP said Halliburton witnesses and documents uncovered in
pretrial proceedings undercut both defenses.  Rickey Morgan, a Halliburton employee who conducted post-
incident testing on Macondo cement slurry samples at the
company’s lab in Duncan, Oklahoma, “testified under oath that
he destroyed test results in order to keep the information from
being ‘misinterpreted’ in ways adverse to Halliburton in
litigation,” BP said in yesterday’s filing.  BP also asked Barbier to consider levying sanctions against
Halliburton, such as barring the company from using certain
evidence or defenses at trial or even dismissing its claims
against BP.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Yahoo Sued by Shareholders Seeking to Maximize Sale Value  Yahoo! Inc. , the Internet company exploring strategic
options, was sued by investors who contend the board is shirking
its duties to seek the best possible price for the company if
it’s sold.  The Sunnyvale, California-based company has instituted
bidding rules that discourage acquisitions that would lead to
replacement of the directors including co-founder Jerry Yang,
M&C Partners III contends in a Dec. 1 lawsuit filed in Delaware
Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Yahoo “has adopted a confidentiality agreement” for
bidders, prohibiting them from talking with other bidders and to
“confine themselves to a bid for only a minority stake,” M&C
lawyers said in court papers.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  and  Softbank Corp. (9984)  are in
advanced talks with Blackstone Group LP and Bain Capital LLC
about making a bid for all of Yahoo, three people with knowledge
of the matter have told Bloomberg News.  In the lawsuit, M&C claims the so-called no cross-talk
provision “constitutes an unreasonable anti-takeover device”
and “tilts the playing field” in favor of Yang, who wants to
keep “a disproportionate influence” over company affairs.  The lawsuit was assigned to Judge Sam Glascock III, who
will have to decide whether to grant M&C’s request to invalidate
the “minority stake promise” as “unlawful and
unenforceable,” according to court papers.  “We aren’t commenting,” said Dana Lengkeek, a Yahoo
spokeswoman, in an e-mail message.  The case is M&C Partners III v. Jerry Yang and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ,
CA7082, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Deutsche Bank Sued for Billions Over Fund’s Currency Losses  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  faces a claim that may be worth billions
of dollars in a lawsuit with investment fund Sebastian Holdings
Inc. over failed foreign exchange transactions.  Sebastian said in court papers in  London  that  Germany ’s
largest bank allowed a trader to breach currency-trading limits
between 2006 and 2008. Sebastian, owned and run by Norwegian
investor Alexander Vik, said it suffered losses and missed out
on profits worth about $2.5 billion when it had to meet margin
calls and close out positions because of the dispute.  “This is about a margin call that was missed and remains
unpaid,” Deutsche Bank said in an e-mailed statement. “We will
defend vigorously against the other party’s claims which are
without merit and date to 2008.”  Deutsche Bank is pursuing Sebastian in the U.K. courts for
$245 million in unpaid margin calls from the period. Sebastian
has filed a “substantial” counterclaim valued at several
billion dollars, its lawyer, Tim Lord, said at a pretrial
hearing in London on Nov. 21.  The dispute relates to “exotic derivatives” and the
breakdown of prime brokerage services provided by Deutsche Bank,
Lord said in November. Sebastian was seeking additional
documents from Deutsche Bank’s Swiss unit ahead of a trial in
London.  The unauthorized trades were carried out by Klaus Said,
whom Vik authorized to work on behalf of Sebastian, the fund’s
lawyers said in London filings. He was only permitted to deal in
“plain vanilla” currency, within a strict limit of $35
million. Deutsche Bank was aware of these limits and shouldn’t
have allowed Said to trade in derivatives, Sebastian says.  Said declined to comment when reached by phone at his home
in  Connecticut .  Sebastian, based in the Turks and Caicos, is also suing
Deutsche Bank for $750 million in  New York , alleging breach of
fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment and negligent
misrepresentation, according to court documents in the case.  As well as losses of $750 million from the foreign exchange
trades, Sebastian estimates in the U.K. counterclaim that it has
missed out on profits of about $700 million from having to close
currency, gold and futures positions as well as losing a $1
billion capital fund it held with the bank.  Vik “trusted and relied upon” his private bankers at
Deutsche Bank for management of Sebastian’s finances, according
to the claim.  The case is Deutsche Bank AG v. Sebastian Holdings Inc,
09-83,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial
Court.  For more, click here.  Ernst & Young Sued by M-Invest for $900 Million Over Audits  Ernst & Young LLP was sued by M-Invest Ltd. for negligence,
malpractice and breach of contract in connection with audits of
financial statements over a five-year period.  The lawsuit seeks $900 million in damages from the New
York-based accounting firm over audits of annual financial
statements for the years 2003 to 2007 for M-Invest, which is in
voluntary liquidation, according to papers filed Dec. 4 in New
York State  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan . The two-page filing
didn’t provide any details of the allegations against Ernst &
Young.  M-Invest Ltd. is the name of a company that was involved in
a settlement agreement with  Irving Picard , the trustee
liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s bankrupt investment firm.  Union Bancaire Privee, a private Swiss bank accused of
profiting from Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, agreed to pay as much as
$500 million in December 2010 to settle claims by Picard. The
agreement released claims against Union Bancaire and M-Invest, a
Cayman Islands corporation it set up to invest money with
Madoff. Union Bancaire and M-Invest didn’t admit any liability
in the settlement, according to the agreement.  “The suit has no merit and we will defend ourselves,”
Ernst & Young said in a statement. Eric Seiler, an attorney
representing M-Invest, didn’t return a phone message seeking
comment on the suit.  The case is M-Invest Ltd. v. Ernst & Young LLP,
653353/2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Bayer Withheld Yasmin Data From U.S., Former FDA Head Says  A  Bayer AG  unit’s researchers found increased reports of
blood clots in users of its Yasmin birth-control pills and the
company withheld the information from U.S. regulators, the
former head of the Food and Drug Administration said.  David Kessler, the former FDA commissioner, in a document
unsealed yesterday in federal court in  Illinois , said Bayer
didn’t include an analysis “that demonstrated an increase in
the U.S. reporting rate” for venous thromboembolism, or clots,
in a 2004 review of Yasmin’s safety provided to the agency.  The report also didn’t include an earlier draft opinion by
company researchers that “spontaneous reporting data do signal
a difference in the VTE rates for Yasmin” compared with other
oral contraceptives, Kessler said, quoting the draft.  “Bayer presented a selective view of the data, and that
presentation obscured the potential risks associated with
Yasmin,” Kessler said. The company also promoted the oral
contraceptive for unapproved uses, particularly for treatment of
 premenstrual syndrome , Kessler said.  Kessler’s report and four other expert opinions were
released yesterday by lawyers representing former users of
Bayer’s Yasmin family of contraceptives. The experts were paid
by the plaintiffs’ lawyers, who submitted the reports to the
FDA, which is considering safety findings on Yasmin and its
sister product Yaz at a hearing Dec. 8.  Rose Talarico, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Bayer, said the
company doesn’t comment on ongoing lawsuits. “We have nothing
further to add as these are matters of litigation,” she said in
an e-mailed statement. “We expect them to be addressed further
at trial.”  Morgan Liscinsky, an FDA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
comment on the unsealed documents about the drugmaker’s handling
of the contraceptives.  The FDA didn’t accept the documents for the hearing,
according to an e-mail sent to plaintiffs’ lawyer Ned McWilliams
after business hours yesterday.  “The deadline for all written submissions was on November
23, 2011,” Kalyani Bhatt, of the FDA’s Division of Advisory
Committee and Consultant Management, wrote. “We will not be
able to accept any written submission at this time.”  Bayer faces more than 10,000 lawsuits over injuries
allegedly caused by the contraceptives. Lawyers suing the
drugmaker cited FDA reports of at least 50 deaths tied to the
pills from 2004 to 2008. The first trials are scheduled for next
month in federal court in Illinois and state court in
Philadelphia.  The case is In re Yasmin and Yaz (Drospirenone) Marketing,
Sales Practices and Product Liability Litigation, 09-md-02100,
U.S. District Court, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Illinois (East St. Louis).  For more, click here.  Madoff Trustee Appeals $19 Billion JPMorgan Ruling  The liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm, who lost the
right to demand $19 billion in damages from  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , appealed the ruling to a higher court.  JPMorgan last month won the dismissal of trustee Irving
Picard’s damage claims in his lawsuit alleging the biggest U.S.
bank aided Madoff’s fraud. Picard can’t sue for common-law
damages on behalf of the defunct Madoff firm’s customers, U.S.
District Judge  Colleen McMahon  ruled in New York.  The judge told Picard he could go ahead and appeal her
ruling after getting JPMorgan’s consent to do so, according to
court papers. Picard agreed to put his remaining claims against
New York-based JPMorgan on hold while he appeals.  Rulings by district judges McMahon and Jed Rakoff have
knocked more than $28 billion off of Picard’s claims against
banks and may cost him as much as $11 billion in recoveries from
other cases aimed at benefiting investors who lost money in the
Ponzi scheme, according to the trustee’s estimates.  JPMorgan said it didn’t know about the fraud and couldn’t
be held responsible for a scheme orchestrated by Madoff alone.  Madoff pleaded guilty and is serving a 150-year prison
term. Picard and his firm have made about $224 million in fees
since Madoff’s 2008 arrest.  The McMahon cases are Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 11-
cv-913; Picard v. UBS Fund Services ( Luxembourg ) SA, 11-cv-4212,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  ANZ Customers Can Proceed With Fees Lawsuit, Judge Rules  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  customers
seeking to recoup fees they claim were illegal can proceed with
part of the lawsuit after a judge ruled credit-card charges for
late payments can be challenged in court.  Federal Court Justice Michelle Gordon issued the ruling in
 Melbourne  yesterday, dismissing complaints about charges for
insufficient funds in accounts or overdrawn bank accounts,
ruling those didn’t amount to penalties.  ANZ is the first of 12 banks that  IMF Australia Ltd. (IMF) , the
country’s biggest litigation funder, planned to sue in a bid to
recoup as much as A$5 billion ($5.1 billion) that Australian
account holders paid in fees in the past six years, according to
James Middleweek, managing director at IMF’s Financial Redress
Pty unit. Customers holding almost 246,000 accounts have
registered to sue, according to IMF’s website.  “This is the first important ruling in what will
undoubtedly be a long, drawn-out process,” Middleweek said in a
phone interview yesterday.  The credit card late-payment charges make up about 40
percent of the A$50 million in refunds for so-called exception
fees sought by ANZ’s customers, Andrew Watson, a principal at
Maurice Blackburn Lawyers, who is representing the plaintiffs,
said in a phone interview.  ANZ, based in Melbourne, said it welcomed the ruling
because it was largely vindicated by it.  The decision will “almost certainly” be appealed, Watson
said. He said the High Court of  Australia , the country’s top
court, would probably have to decide whether the concept of
penalties can be expanded to include those charges rejected by
Gordon.  The case is Andrews v. ANZ Banking Group Ltd. VID811/2010.
Federal Court of Australia (Melbourne).  For more, click here.  Australian Federal Court Lifts Freeze on Magnitogorsk Assets  Australia’s federal court lifted a freeze on  OAO
Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel (MMK) ’s assets in the country, including a
stake in Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., after a dispute with
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. was resolved.  MMK, as Magnitogorsk is known, had a freeze imposed on
Australian assets valued at as much as A$858 million ($877
million), according to a Nov. 25 order made in Sydney by Federal
Court Justice Steven Rares. The figure included a 4.99 percent
stake valued at about A$735 million in Perth-based Fortescue,
Australia’s third-largest iron-ore exporter.  Judge Peter Jacobson yesterday  ordered  the freeze lifted
and allowed MMK and Swiss trader ENRC Marketing AG, an ENRC
unit, which had sought the freeze amidst a dispute over iron-ore
shipments, to file a notice that the lawsuit is being
discontinued, according to a posting on the Federal Court’s
website.  MMK and ENRC said in a statement later they had
“amicably” settled their dispute.  “ENRC and MMK continue to benefit from long-term
partnership and we are pleased to retain MMK as one of our
valued customers,” ENRC Chief Executive Officer Felix Vulis
said.  The mutual waiver of claims confirmed the companies’
intention to “cooperate on a long-term basis,” MMK CEO Boris
Dubrovsky said.  The case is between ENRC Marketing AG and OJSC
“Magnitogorsk Metallurgical Kombinat.” NSD2110/2011. Federal
Court of Australia (Sydney).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials  Blood-Test Case at Top Court May Send Patent ‘Shock Waves’  Computer, drug and biotechnology companies have a message
for the  U.S. Supreme Court  as it prepares for arguments this
week on patents for diagnostic medical tests: Be careful.  Companies, trade groups and lawyers have filed more than
two dozen legal  briefs , many warning that the court’s ruling
might have widespread, unintended ramifications. Each side in
the case, which pits  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Prometheus unit against the
Mayo Clinic, says a defeat might stifle innovation.  “The claims have to do with diagnostic methods, but it has
the potential to touch industries we don’t know about,” said
Erika Arner, a Washington lawyer who filed a brief asking the
court not to restrict software and computer patents.  Because the court will consider the most fundamental
question in patent law -- what can be patented -- the ruling
“will or could have shock waves across all industries,” said
Arner, who represents SAP America Inc., a business-software
maker based in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania.  The case is the second at the Supreme Court since 2010
concerning what types of inventions are eligible for legal
protection. The latest case, to be heard tomorrow, will test the
longstanding principle that natural phenomenon can’t be
patented. A lower court ruled that two patents now owned by
Prometheus were potentially valid because they involve the
application of a law of nature, not the law itself.  The patents cover a method for determining the proper
dosage of thiopurine, a stomach medicine, based on the rate at
which particular patients metabolize the drug. Doctors can use
the method, which involves testing blood for metabolites, to
maximize effectiveness and limit toxic side effects while
treating Crohn’s disease and other inflammatory bowel illnesses.  Prometheus is suing two units of the Mayo Clinic, the not-
for-profit medical practice based in Rochester, Minnesota. Mayo
licensed the patents until 2004, when it created its own test.  Mayo contends the patents would give Prometheus a monopoly
over all uses of the natural relationship between the
metabolites created by thiopurine and the drug’s impact on the
human body. The patents are so broad they would bar doctors
familiar with the Prometheus method from even thinking about the
connection between metabolite levels and the proper dosage for a
patient, Mayo’s lawyers say.  The case is Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus
Laboratories, 10-1150.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex- NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief Wins Reversal of $11 Million Verdict  Former NYSE Euronext President Gerald D. Putnam won
reversal of an $11 million jury verdict in a lawsuit accusing
him and two other people of cheating a former business partner
of money from the development of the electronic stock exchange
Archipelago Holdings LLC.  An Illinois appellate panel on Dec. 2 threw out the jury’s
2009 award, ruling that Lewis Borsellino, a former business
partner and commodities trader, previously agreed to release the
defendants from liability in exchange for $250,000.  In 1998, Borsellino’s company sued companies controlled by
Putnam and Stuart and MarrGwen Townsend, with whom he had formed
 Chicago  Trading & Arbitrage LLC. After the case settled, he sued
again, claiming he had been misled about whether CTA money was
used to create Archipelago. Archipelago merged in 2006 with the
New York Stock Exchange creating NYSE Group Inc., now part of
New York-based NYSE Euronext.  “Borsellino not only retained payment under the release,
but also does not seek to rescind the release,” Illinois
Appellate Court Judge Robert E. Gordon wrote. “The release
barred Borsellino’s claim and we must reverse the judgment of
the trial court.”  Borsellino’s attorney, Jon Loevy of Chicago, said in a
voice-mail message that the appellate ruling was a mistake of
law that he expects will be rectified by the Illinois Supreme
Court.  “Nothing in the court’s opinion disturbed the jury’s
finding that the defendants committed fraud,” Loevy said.  A lawyer for Putnam and the Townsends, Michael Pollard,
said by e-mail that he was confident the intermediate-level
appellate court ruling will withstand any further review.  “The court’s decision vindicates our clients after a
decade of litigation and reverses the outcome of a trial that
should have never taken place,” Pollard said.  The case is Borsellino v. Putnam, 2011 IL App 102242,
Illinois Appellate Court, First District, Sixth Division
(Chicago).  HSBC Must Pay $62 Million Over Improper Sales to Elderly  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  must pay 39.8 million pounds ($62.2
million), including a record fine, for telling elderly people to
buy products to fund nursing-home costs that paid out after some
of them were expected to die.  The bank was fined 10.5 million pounds, the largest-ever
penalty in the U.K. over sales of financial products, the
 Financial Services Authority  said in a statement yesterday. The
lender estimated it would have to pay about 29.3 million pounds
to compensate customers, the FSA said.  HSBC’s  NHFA  unit advised 2,485 customers with an average
age of 83 to invest in asset-backed products to fund their long-
term care. The investments typically were recommended for a
minimum five-year period, which in some cases was longer than
the customers’ life expectancies, causing them to make
withdrawals sooner than recommended, the regulator said.  The HSBC unit made “unsuitable sales” to around 87
percent of its customers for these types of investments over a
five-year period until 2010, the regulator said. The customers
invested as much as 285 million pounds, an average of 115,000
pounds per customer.  HSBC Bank Plc Chief Executive Officer Brian Robertson said
in a statement he is “profoundly sorry” that the NHFA “failed
to give suitable financial advice to some of their customers.”  The bank reported the issue to the FSA and closed the unit
to new business on July 1, Robertson said.  HSBC said it is reviewing the matter and will contact
affected customers. The bank received the FSA’s standard 30
percent discount on the fine for settling early in the probe.  For more, click here.  Rajaratnam’s Trades May Run From Stamps to Mackerel Packets  Raj Rajaratnam leaves behind the ruins of a Wall Street
career that made him a billionaire hedge fund manager to begin
an 11-year prison sentence, the price for running a far-flung
insider-trading conspiracy that turned tips from company
executives and technology consultants into cash.  He will trade in suits for a uniform, a luxury Manhattan
apartment for a cell, and credit cards and cash for postage
stamps and mackerel packets, the black market currency of his
new home. The millions of dollars he made on illegal trades will
be replaced by manual labor that starts at 12 cents an hour.  Rajaratnam, 54, reported to Federal Medical Center Devens,
located on a decommissioned military base in Ayer,
Massachusetts, at about 12:30 p.m. yesterday, said Robert Lanza,
a prison spokesman.  Rajaratnam will be fingerprinted, searched, interviewed and
issued a prison identification card with his inmate number,
62785-054, said John Colautti, a spokesman for the Devens
facility. He will only be permitted to keep his wedding ring,
glasses and a few other approved items, he said.  Most inmates reporting to Devens for their initial prison
assignment are sent to the Special Housing Unit, a high-security
lockup where they stay for 23 hours a day, until their
tuberculosis test results are processed, according to Colautti.  Rajaratnam, was sentenced in October after a federal jury
in Manhattan found him guilty of 14 counts of securities fraud
and conspiracy. He directed colleagues, consultants and
corporate officers to leak information that made him tens of
millions of dollars.  His was the longest sentence ever handed down for such a
crime, and the culmination of a four-year nationwide probe of
insider trading. Last week, a three-judge panel rejected his
last-minute plea to remain free while he appeals his conviction.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 