-- 
Deutsche Boerse-NYSE Concession Offer Said Short of European Union Demands

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-12-06T18:52:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/deutsche-boerse-nyse-concession-offer-said-short-of-european-union-demands.html
European Union regulators told
 Deutsche Boerse (DB1)  AG and  NYSE Euronext  that the concessions they
offered didn’t go far enough to eliminate antitrust concerns
over their deal, two people familiar with the discussions said.  EU officials told  Deutsche Boerse  and NYSE at a meeting in
Brussels today that customers and rivals weren’t swayed by their
Nov. 17 offer to divest some European single-equity derivatives
units, according to the people who couldn’t be identified
because the talks are confidential. Regulators also weren’t
convinced that offering competitors limited access to Deutsche
Boerse’s clearing house would do enough to foster competition
for exchange-traded derivatives, the people said.  Regulators have told the two companies that their deal to
create the world’s largest exchange would monopolize derivatives
trading in the region. The EU can block a deal or require
concessions from companies to eliminate potential antitrust
problems.  Deutsche Boerse and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  declined to comment on
the meeting. Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the European
Commission in Brussels, declined to comment.  While Deutsche Boerse and NYSE can offer more to appease
regulators, they haven’t yet decided on next steps, the people
said. Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext have resisted selling
their derivatives-trading arms Eurex and Liffe, saying in a
February statement that they complement each other on interest-
rate products.  Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex is the region’s biggest derivatives
exchange, while NYSE Euronext owns Liffe, the second-biggest in
 Europe . The Frankfurt-based company agreed to acquire its New
York rival in a deal valued at $9.5 billion when it was
announced in February.  An EU antitrust complaint sent to the companies rejected
arguments from Deutsche Boerse and NYSE that they aren’t direct
rivals on short-term and long-term interest rate debt products.  The takeover would put more than 90 percent of the region’s
exchange-traded derivatives market and about 30 percent of
European  stock trading  in the hands of one organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 