-- 
Dubai Shares Decline Most in a Month on Debt Restructuring Report, Europe

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-12-06T14:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/dubai-s-shares-drop-most-in-2-weeks-on-debt-restructuring-report-europe.html
Dubai’s shares fell the most in more
than a month after a report that the emirate may restructure
some bonds sold by state-owned companies next year and on
concern Europe’s crisis may spread.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, slumped 3.6 percent.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) 
declined the most since Nov. 1. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
dropped 1.2 percent, the most since Nov. 1, to 1,382.92 at the 2
p.m. close in the emirate. The yield on Dubai’s 5.591 percent
dollar bonds due June 2021 rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 6.12 percent at 5:15 p.m. in the emirate,
according to Bloomberg data.  Dubai may issue the bonds to help meet $3.8 billion in
payments, the Financial Times reported, citing a senior
government official it didn’t identify. The official was
confident a commercial deal could be reached with bondholders,
it said. The Dubai government’s media office declined to comment
when contacted by Bloomberg News. Shares also tumbled after
 Standard & Poor’s  said it may strip France and Germany of their
Aaa credit ratings.  “The timing of the report is not that great, as it comes
on the back of S&P’s news about potential downgrades of some
European Union countries,” said Dubai-based Ibrahim Masood, who
helps manage about $400 million at  Mashreqbank PSC. (MASQ)  “Investors
think it may be a smart idea to take some risk off the table.”  Meeting Payments  Dubai and its state-owned non-financial companies have
outstanding debt of $101.5 billion and may need further
financial support to meet these obligations, Moody’s Investors
Service said in a report today. The emirate was on the brink of
a default in 2009 before it was bailed out with $20 billion from
the United Arab Emirates central bank, the Abu Dhabi government
and its banks.  State-controlled companies including Dubai Holding LLC and
Drydocks World LLC are still in talks with lenders to
restructure debt, while Dubai World reached an agreement with
creditors on about $25 billion of debt in March.  S&P put Germany, France and 13 other euro-area nations on
review for a downgrade, saying “continuing disagreements among
European policy makers on how to tackle” the region’s debt
crisis risk damaging their financial stability. The  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slumped 1.3 percent.  Crude oil for January delivery dropped as much as 0.6
percent to $100.38 a barrel. Gulf Arab oil exporters including
the U.A.E. and Qatar supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Emaar tumbled the most since Oct. 3 to 2.72 dirhams. Dubai
Islamic, the U.A.E.’s biggest bank complying with Shariah rules,
dropped 1 percent to 1.99 dirhams.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  decreased 0.3 percent. Abu
Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  decreased 0.8 percent. Saudi Arabia’s
 Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  declined 0.2 percent and Qatar’s  QE
Index (DSM)  slipped 0.4 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  gained 0.1 percent
and Kuwait’s  SE Price Index (KWSEIDX)  advanced 0.5 percent. Bahrain’s
market was closed for an Islamic holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  