-- 
Health Law’s Drug Discount Saves Elderly $1.5 Billion, U.S. Says

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-12-06T22:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/health-law-s-drug-discount-saves-elderly-1-5-billion-u-s-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration says the health-care overhaul he championed has
this year saved Medicare recipients an average of $569 a person
in drug costs.  About 2.65 million people ages 65 and older have spent
about $1.5 billion less on prescription drugs under a discount
program on medicines created by the law signed in March 2010,
the  Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services  said today in a
statement. About 24 million beneficiaries in Medicare, the U.S.
health program for the elderly and disabled, also had taken
advantage of the law’s requirement for free preventive care,
such as an annual checkup, during the first 11 months of the
year, the agency said.  “Millions of Americans are receiving free preventive
services and getting cheaper  prescription drugs ” because of the
health law, said Marilyn Tavenner, the acting CMS administrator,
in the statement.  The drug discounts apply to Medicare recipients who reach a
coverage gap in the program’s prescription medicine plans called
the “donut hole.” The law requires drugmakers to provide a 50
percent discount to people in the gap until they spend $4,550 a
year, after which the government covers almost all drug costs.
The discounts went into effect in January.  Drug companies agreed to the discounts in 2009 as part of
an $80 billion contribution toward the cost of the measure.
Beginning in 2014, about 32 million people who are now uninsured
are expected to obtain taxpayer-subsidized health coverage
including for prescription drugs.  Future Effects  The medicine discounts for seniors may eventually increase
drug prices, and the free preventive care could drive up health
spending without much benefit, said Joseph Antos, a health
economist at the nonprofit  American Enterprise Institute  in
Washington, D.C., who opposed the overhaul law.  “No company is in the business of handing out money,” he
said today in a telephone interview. “To get the market back in
equilibrium after this kind of a regulation, what happens is
drug prices jump.”  Economic studies of preventive care have found the services
often cost more money than they save unless “targeted on people
highly likely to have some condition that could be detected and
then could be treated,” Antos said.  Wellness Exams  Medicare patients are visiting the doctor more often thanks
to the free annual wellness exam, said Conrad Flick, a family
physician in Raleigh,  North Carolina . “Rarely a week goes by
that I don’t do one or two” of the exams, he said today in a
telephone interview.  Behavioral changes among the program’s recipients have been
less evident to insurers with private Medicare Advantage plans,
said Rob Smith, vice president of sales and marketing for
Medicare at  Independence Blue Cross , a Philadelphia-based
nonprofit insurer with 3.1 million members in 2010.  “General confusion about the law and its offerings” among
the elderly, he said in an e-mail, may mean that Medicare
patients aren’t taking full advantage of provisions “that would
seem to lend themselves to more positive/preventive health-care
behavior.”  The wellness visits allow doctors to be paid for talking
with Medicare patients about “health maintenance,” said
Charles Cefalu, chief of geriatrics at the Louisiana State
University Health Science Center in  New Orleans .  “That’s been a real problem in the past,” he said,
because doctors “don’t have enough time relative to the
reimbursement” to talk about anything other than patients’
acute complaints.  Greater Education  Medicare should do a better job educating beneficiaries on
what to expect in the exams, Flick said. The health law included
a checklist of questions doctors must ask and services they have
to perform during the exam in order to be reimbursed by
 Medicare , and patients are sometimes caught off-guard when they
receive unexpected care, he said.  For example, the law requires doctors to screen for
depression and cognitive ability during the exam, and they can
help patients develop long-term plans for their care. The exams
don’t cover chronic problems such as diabetes or high-blood
pressure.  The visits “are not exactly what a physician is used to or
what a patient’s used to,” Flick said. “It has great
potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  