-- 
Heartbreak Awaits Republicans Who Love Gingrich: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-12-06T00:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/heartbreak-awaits-republicans-who-love-gingrich-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Before Republicans put  Newt Gingrich 
at the top of their party, they should consider what happened
the last time he led it.  In the mid-1990s, Gingrich was the de facto head of the
 Republican Party . He helped lead it to victory in the
congressional elections of 1994, which brought about real
accomplishments such as welfare reform. But once he attained
power, both his popularity and that of his party started to
plummet. In the aftermath of his leadership, a Republican was
able to take the presidency only by pointedly distancing himself
from Gingrich.  Conservatives who dislike  George W. Bush ’s compassionate
conservatism have Gingrich to thank for it. After Gingrich lost
the budget battles with President  Bill Clinton , it took 15 years
for any politician to take up the cause of limited-government
conservatism that he had discredited.  Although Gingrich isn’t solely responsible for the
Republican policy defeats of those years, his erratic behavior,
lack of discipline and self-absorption had a lot to do with
them. He explained that one reason the federal government shut
down in 1995 was that he was angry that Clinton had snubbed him
during an international flight. The Clinton White House then
released pictures of the two men gabbing on the plane. Later
negotiations didn’t go well, with Gingrich saying, “I melt when
I’m around him.”  Erratic, Undisciplined, Grandiose  Gingrich’s fans say that he isn’t the same man he was then;
he has “matured” in his 60s. Maybe so. But he’s still erratic:
This year he flip-flopped three times on the top issue of the
day, the House Republican plan to reform Medicare. He’s still
undisciplined: He went on a vacation cruise at the start of his
campaign. He still has the same old grandiosity: In recent weeks
he has compared himself to  Ronald Reagan  and  Margaret Thatcher 
and said confidently that the nomination was his.  He still has the same need to justify his every petty move
by reference to some grand theory. Plenty of politicians
competing in  Iowa  come out for ethanol subsidies; only Gingrich
would proclaim that in doing so he was standing up to city
slickers in a culture war invented in his own mind. He still has
a casual relationship with the truth. In recent weeks he has
said that  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  paid him to condemn its business model,
only for reporters and bloggers to find out that he had in fact
shilled for the organization in return for about $1.6 million.  He still has the same penchant for sharing whatever
revelation has just struck him, as with his recent musings about
getting rid of child-labor laws. “He goes off the deep end and
throws things out there,” says Joe McQuaid, the publisher of the
Manchester Union Leader, which has endorsed Gingrich. He means
it as a compliment, but it doesn’t strike me as one of the top
traits to seek in a president. Many voters may have the same
reaction.  The race for the Republican nomination appears to have come
down to two intelligent, knowledgeable men in Gingrich and
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney. Neither of them has a
history of down-the-line conservatism. Gingrich can match Romney
flip-flop for flip-flop and heresy for heresy. He has supported
cap-and-trade legislation, federal funding for embryonic stem-
cell research, the expansion of Medicare to cover  prescription
drugs  and a federal requirement for everyone to buy health
insurance. He has been neither more consistent nor more
conservative than Romney.  True, Gingrich has done more to advance the cause of
conservatism than Romney. But he’s also done more to damage it.
He lost his job as speaker of the House because conservative
representatives were fed up with his inconstancy.  A Riskier Choice  There’s no guarantee that any Republican will win next
year, of course. But Gingrich would be a riskier choice for the
Republicans to nominate against President  Barack Obama . The last
time the country got a good long look at him, he turned very
unpopular very fast. His decades in  Washington , some of them
spent essentially as a lobbyist, would muddle the party’s
message. So would his unfortunate marital history.  We already know the basic strategy of the Obama campaign.
It will be to portray the Republican nominee as a dangerous
right-wing extremist. Romney’s demeanor -- his steadiness, his
reasonableness -- would undercut that strategy. It seems likely
to be much more successful against Gingrich. After all, it
already was: In 1996, Clinton ran against Gingrich as much as he
ran against his nominal opponent,  Bob Dole . Clinton portrayed
Gingrich as callous and radical, and used Gingrich’s ill-
considered words, such as his claim that Republican plans would
cause the Medicare bureaucracy to “wither on the vine,” against
him.  Gingrich’s energy and creativity are admirable, within
limits. But recognizing his own limits is not a Gingrich
specialty. Voters are likely to see, as he cannot, that he is
temperamentally unsuited for the presidency.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 