-- 
EBA Should Give Banks More Time to Boost Capital, ABI Says

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-12-06T18:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/eba-should-give-banks-more-time-to-raise-funds-italy-group-says.html
The European Banking Authority should
give banks more time to raise capital to comply with its
targets, said Giovanni Sabatini, director general of  Italy ’s
banking association.  The measures required by the EBA were inappropriate in
their “method, merit and timing,” Sabatini said in  Rome  today,
comments that were confirmed by an ABI spokeswoman.  Banks by Christmas Day must present plans on how they will
reach the regulator’s target of 9 percent of core Tier 1 capital
by June, after marking their sovereign debt to market prices.
Lenders are struggling to find investors that will back their
capital-raising needs, leaving banks little choice but to cut
government bond holdings or lending, threatening economic growth
and worsening of the sovereign-debt crisis.  “It’s very, very difficult for banks to raise capital
right now,” Gregorio De Felice,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s chief
economist, said in an interview. “Giving banks more time to
raise funds would be a positive move. We’ve said all along that
these measures have a multiplying effect on the sovereign-debt
problem. The aim should be to contain the issues.”  The EBA estimated in October that the region’s financial
institutions need 106 billion euros ($142 billion) to reach its
capital goals by mid-2012. The regulator plans to release
updated figures on how much capital lenders should raise to
absorb losses from euro-area bonds as soon as this week, three
people with knowledge of the matter said previously.  The updated figures take into account sovereign holdings
through the end of September, rather than the estimates, which
used June data. Italy’s top five lenders needed to boost capital
by 14.8 billion euros, the London-based EBA said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  