-- 
Hedge Funds Fell 1% in November, Beating Global Stocks Hit by Euro Crisis

-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/hedge-funds-fell-1-in-november-beating-global-stocks-hit-by-euro-crisis.html
Hedge funds  fell 1 percent in
November as global stock markets slumped because of growing
concern that the European sovereign-debt crisis would spread.  The Bloomberg aggregate hedge-fund index dropped to 116.03
from 117.22 in October, bringing this year’s loss to 3.8
percent. Long-short equity funds, multistrategy funds and macro
funds, which bet on global economic trends, declined.  “Volatility has been fierce,” said Andrew Parrillo,
president and founder of Newport Capital Advisers Inc. in North
Quincy,  Massachusetts , which has about $200 million in assets to
invest. “Hedge funds are getting a bit of a whipsaw. They
really are concerned about the resolution of this impasse in
 Europe .”  Europe’s crisis has added to woes for hedge-fund managers
struggling with market volatility and increased correlation
among asset classes.  John Paulson , who oversees $28 billion,
lost 46 percent this year through November in one of his largest
funds in part because of wrong-way bets on an economic recovery.
Paulson is the industry’s sixth-biggest manager, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of  global stocks  declined
3.2 percent in November amid concern that a Greek referendum
would threaten Europe’s bailout, along with record costs to
insure European government debt.  Multistrategy (BBHFMLTI)  hedge funds fell 1 percent in November and
1.8 percent in 2011. Macro funds declined 1.5 percent last month
and 4.8 percent this year. Long-short equity funds, whose
managers can bet on rising and falling stocks, slumped 2.1
percent in November and 3.8 percent this year.  October’s Gain  Hedge funds rose 2.2 percent in October, based on
Bloomberg’s aggregate index, as  global stocks (MXWD)  rallied. Funds
dropped 4.7 percent in September, their worst month this year.  Paulson & Co.’s Advantage Plus Fund, which seeks to profit
from corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies and
uses leverage to amplify returns, fell 3.6 percent last month in
its dollar-denominated share class. The firm’s Recovery Fund,
which invests in assets Paulson believes will benefit from a
long-term economic upturn, declined 4 percent in November and 28
percent in 2011.  Paulson cut the so-called net exposure in his main funds to
30 percent last month from 60 percent four months earlier. Net
exposure is calculated by subtracting the percentage of a fund’s
short positions, or bets on falling securities, from its longs,
or wagers on rising stocks and bonds.  The main Bloomberg  hedge-fund index (BBHFUNDS)  is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,880 funds, 1,303 of which have
reported returns for November. The index is down 11 percent from
its July 2007 peak.  Hedge funds, investment pools that can wager on or against
any asset, hold $1.97 trillion, according to Hedge Fund Research
Inc. in  Chicago . Investors put $8.7 billion of new money into
hedge funds in the third quarter, bringing this year’s deposits
to $70.1 billion, the firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  