-- 
Egypt Seeks to ‘Safeguard’ Forex Markets as Pound Drops to Seven-Year Low

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-12-07T12:47:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/egypt-to-safeguard-markets-as-pound-approaches-seven-year-low.html
Egypt ’s central bank said it will
ensure the foreign-exchange market is functioning in an
“orderly” manner after reserves fell for an 11th month and as
the Egyptian pound trades close to a seven-year low.  The regulator “continues to safeguard an orderly foreign-
exchange market, which has been the case since the launch of the
foreign-exchange inter-bank market in December 2004,” it said
in an e-mailed statement.  Declines in tourism revenue and foreign investment amid the
uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  in February have
pushed the pound 3.4 percent lower this year to 6.0083 per
dollar. The unrest has also drained $15.9 billion from official
 foreign currency reserves  in the past 11 months to $20.15
billion, a 44 percent plunge.  The remarks are an indication that the central bank doesn’t
intend to allow the pound to depreciate rapidly for now,
according to Jean-Michel Saliba, a London-based economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, and  Mona Mansour , co-head of
research at Cairo-based investment bank CI Capital. Still, “It
will be increasingly untenable to defend the pound next year at
the current pace of reserve loss,” Saliba said in an e-mail
yesterday.  The pound was last devalued in 2003. The currency lost
about a third of its value against the dollar that year,
including an initial 17 percent slump on the day of the
devaluation in January, followed by a gradual decent to 6.17 by
the end of the year. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards for
the currency, which provide guidance to expectations, declined
0.4 percent to 7.025 a dollar today.  ‘Room and Tools’  Former Central Bank Deputy Governor Hisham Ramez said in
June the regulator hasn’t acted in the foreign-exchange market
since Feb. 8 and does not target a level for the pound. The
central bank focuses on ensuring there is liquidity in the
 currency market , he said.  “At the current stage, the central bank has room and tools
to support the pound, notably by hiking  interest rates  or
encouraging banks to repatriate parts of their dollar holdings
abroad,” said Alia Moubayed, a London-based senior economist at
 Barclays Capital . “However, the longer the uncertainty
continues keeping capital flows away, the less the central bank
will be able to fend off speculation of a more rapid
depreciation.”  The  Finance Ministry  last month sold its first dollar-
denominated treasury-bills, auctioning $1.53 billion pounds in
one-year notes at an average yield of 3.87 percent. That
compares with the 14.93 percent the country paid on similar-
maturity pound-denominated notes at a previous auction on Nov.
24.  Islamist Gains  Egypt’s military rulers are staging the country’s first
parliamentary elections since Mubarak’s departure with Islamists
claiming the early lead in polling, which takes place over
several stages and ends in January.  Foreign investors sold 34.5 billion pounds of the country’s
short-term domestic debt securities in the six months following
January, leaving local banks to finance the government’s needs
and forcing local-currency borrowing costs to record highs.  Promised aid from Persian Gulf governments was slow to
arrive as Egypt received $500 million of about $7 billion in
loans pledged by  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  