-- 
Egypt Forms New Government as Election Moves Into Second Phase

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-12-07T22:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/egypt-s-army-appointed-premier-promises-new-cabinet-amid-vote.html
Egypt’s ruling generals swore in a
new Cabinet and gave the prime minister greater powers as
Islamist groups headed for control of the first parliament since
the toppling of former President  Hosni Mubarak .  The Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party secured
the largest share, 37 percent, of ballots cast for party lists
in the first round of voting, which covers Cairo and eight other
provinces. It also gained 36 of the 56 seats awarded to
individual candidates in the first phase, official results show.
Ballots cast for lists determine two-thirds of the 498 elected
seats in the assembly, while the rest are determined by votes
for individuals.  Due to the complexity of the electoral system, the makeup
of parliament won’t become clear until final results are
announced in January. Nor will the balance of power between the
assembly, the Cabinet and the ruling military council.  While the army yesterday granted Prime Minister Kamal el- Ganzouri presidential powers, it said these exclude oversight of
the military and judiciary. It has also said it will remain the
ultimate authority in  Egypt  until a president is elected next
year.  “This transfer of powers is 100 percent cosmetic,” said
Ziad A. Moussa, a senior analyst at Al Ahram Center for
Political and Strategic Studies. “The military council is
trying to say that it’s not interested in remaining in power but
the actual content of that  power transfer  is not as powerful as
it seems to be.”  New Cabinet  The military council swore in El-Ganzouri, who also served
as premier under Mubarak, and other members of the new Cabinet
yesterday. Momtaz el-Saeed was named finance minister, Mohamed
Ibrahim Youssef interior minister and the foreign-affairs
portfolio remains with Mohamed Amr, state television reported.  Demonstrators have been camped in  Tahrir Square  and other
parts of Cairo for more than two weeks to demand the army cede
power to a civilian government. The group of secular parties
most closely linked with the Tahrir protesters, the Egyptian
Bloc, came third with about 13 percent of votes for party lists
in the first round.  The Nour party, which represents Salafi Islamists, came
second. The strong performance by Egypt’s religiously oriented
groups follows victories by Islamist parties this year in
Morocco and  Tunisia , where the wave of Middle Eastern uprisings
began a year ago.  Voting for the second round of Egypt’s elections, which
covers Giza, Suez, Ismailia and six other governorates, begins
on Dec. 14. The third round begins on Jan. 3 and final results
are due 10 days later. Presidential elections will be held by
the end of June, the army has said.  Brotherhood Alliances  “The final results will dictate the Muslim Brotherhood’s
choices of alliances and whether they will resort to the Salafis
or see them as a liability and turn instead to the moderate,
democratic forces,” said Nabil Abdel Fattah, director of the
Al-Ahram Center for Social and Historic Studies.  Whatever government emerges in the coming months must
tackle an economy that grew at the slowest pace in at least a
decade as a result of the unrest that forced Mubarak out in
February and deterred tourism and investment. Gross domestic
product expanded 1.8 percent in the fiscal year through June,
and Egypt has spent almost half its  foreign currency reserves  in
the past 11 months.  The previous administration had agreed in principle to
request a $3 billion International Monetary Fund loan that it
rejected earlier this year after domestic borrowing costs
soared. El-Saeed, who replaces Hazem El-Beblawi as finance
minister, said on Dec. 3 that it’s “too early” to predict the
fate of the loan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  