-- 
Lehman Says Archstone Is Worth More Than Equity Residential Bid

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-12-06T00:06:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/lehman-says-archstone-is-worth-more-than-equity-residential-bid.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  said
Archstone, its largest real estate asset, is worth “at least”
$1 billion more than the $5 billion equity value implied by
Equity Residential’s bid for a stake in the apartment owner.  Lenders  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , who are
selling the interest, failed to provide Lehman with adequate
information to trigger its 10-day notice period for matching
Equity Residential’s offer, Lehman said today in a filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Lehman owns 47
percent of Archstone.  Equity Residential, the Chicago-based multifamily investor
founded by  Sam Zell , said on Dec. 2 that it had agreed to buy
26.5 percent of Archstone from Bank of America and Barclays for
$1.33 billion, contingent on Lehman not exercising its right to
match the offer.  “Lehman believes that the EQR purchase price does not take
into consideration the value of Archstone’s platform, including
its management, which Lehman believes is the best in the
industry, nor does it take into account Archstone’s valuable
strategic position within the apartment industry,” the estate
of the bankrupt securities firm said in today’s 8-K filing with
the SEC.  Lenders and  Equity Residential (EQR)  timed the bid for Archstone
just prior to Lehman’s hearing to confirm its joint Chapter 11
reorganization plan and the election of a new board “to
optimize the chance Lehman will not exercise its rights,”
according to the filing. The hearing is scheduled to begin
tomorrow.  Additional Option  Bank of America and Barclays also failed to comply with
their agreement with Lehman by granting Equity Residential an
option to buy an additional 26.5 percent of Archstone if Lehman
didn’t exercise its rights to match the offer on the first
piece, Lehman said in the filing.  Brandon Ashcraft, a spokesman for Barclays, said he had no
immediate comment. Representatives for Bank of America and
Equity Residential didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment.  The estate of  Lehman Brothers  is trying to raise money for
a possible counterbid to Equity Residential’s deal, according to
a person with knowledge of the situation. The defunct securities
firm is in discussions with investors including Blackstone Group
LP and Brookfield Asset Management Inc. to arrange financing,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
negotiations are private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  