-- 
Lehman Is Said to Seek $2.6 Billion to Buy Controlling Stake in Archstone

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-07T23:06:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/lehman-says-archstone-is-worth-more-than-implied-by-equity-residential-bid.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  is
trying to raise about $2.6 billion to buy a controlling stake in
Archstone, its biggest real estate asset, as part of a plan to
sell or liquidate the apartment owner for $6 billion or more,
according to a person familiar with the plan.  Lehman’s strategy depends on getting control of the
company, said the person, who declined to be named because the
money-raising efforts are private. Lehman is seeking to raise
money in talks with investors including Blackstone Group LP and
Brookfield Asset Management Inc., said another person familiar
with the plan, who asked not to be identified because the
negotiations are private.  Bankrupt Lehman said in a filing that Archstone is worth
“at least” $1 billion more than the $5 billion equity value
implied by a bid for part of the company by Equity Residential,
founded by Sam Zell. Equity Residential said on Dec. 2 that it
had offered  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  $1.33 billion
for 26.5 percent of Archstone, or about half of their stake.  The deal is contingent on Lehman not exercising its right
to match the offer, the Chicago-based company said. Lehman,
which won approval yesterday for a $65 billion liquidation plan
after more than three years in bankruptcy, would need to raise
at least $2.6 billion to buy the banks’ controlling 53 percent
stake, based on the Zell company’s price. Lehman currently owns
47 percent of Archstone.  Value of Platform  “Lehman believes that the EQR purchase price does not take
into consideration the value of Archstone’s platform, including
its management, which Lehman believes is the best in the
industry, nor does it take into account Archstone’s valuable
strategic position within the apartment industry,” the company
said in yesterday’s filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the firm’s plans for Archstone.  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from  Washington 
and New York to  San Francisco .  Lehman, which is selling some assets and buttressing others
for a future sale, fetched $3.9 billion through June 30 from
property sales, according to court papers. Chief Executive
Officer  Bryan Marsal  has said real estate sales will continue
through 2014.  Notice Period  Lehman faulted Bank of America and Barclays in its filing,
saying they didn’t provide their partner with enough information
to trigger a 10-day notice period for matching  Equity
Residential (EQR) ’s offer.  The banks and the bidding company chose to disclose the bid
just before a court hearing on Lehman’s liquidation plan “to
optimize the chance Lehman will not exercise its rights,”
according to the filing.  The banks failed to comply with other another aspect of the
agreement they made with Lehman when they gave Equity
Residential an option to buy an additional 26.5 percent of
Archstone if Lehman didn’t match the offer on the first piece,
Lehman said in the filing.  Brandon Ashcraft, a spokesman for Barclays, declined to
comment, as did Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman for Bank of
America, and Marty McKenna, a spokesman for Equity Residential.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net .
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ; or
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 