-- 
Eli Lilly Shares Rise on Alzheimer’s Drug Hopes

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-12-06T21:10:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/eli-lilly-shares-rise-on-alzheimer-s-drug-hopes.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  rose to a one-month
high after an analyst said success of the company’s experimental
Alzheimer’s drug could double the share price.  Lilly, based in Indianapolis, gained 3.9 percent to $38.86
at 4 p.m. New York time. Expectations have been
“extraordinarily low” for the success of Alzheimer’s drugs, so
a Lilly success with solanezumab could boost the shares 50 to
100 percent,  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein,
said in a note.  “ Eli Lilly  and several of its competitors are willing to
spend hundreds of millions of dollars on what is essentially a
massive lottery ticket,” Anderson said. “If their drugs are
successful in delaying the progression of Alzheimer’s disease,
they could end up making Lipitor look like a mid-sized
product,” he said in a  note  to clients sent yesterday. Sales of
solanezumab could reach $9 billion by 2020, he said.  Solanezumab is an antibody designed to clear protein
fragments called beta amyloid that clutter the brains of
patients with Alzheimer’s disease.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , Johnson &
Johnson and Elan are testing bapineuzumab, a similar drug.  Anderson cautioned that the drug’s chances of success are
only 10 percent to 20 percent. Because of the large potential
payoff, drugmakers have been willing to gamble on the medicines.  A leading theory of the disease is that amyloid causes the
disease by harming brain cells. Debate over whether the theory
is correct has increased as other drugs that target the protein
have failed or shown murky results in trials. In August 2010,
Lilly stopped development of a pill, semagacestat, that blocked
amyloid by another mechanism, after trials found it didn’t slow
disease progression.  As many as 5 million Americans have  Alzheimer’s disease ,
according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
in Atlanta. Alzheimer’s is a degenerative neurological condition
with no approved treatment to slow brain cell death.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  