-- 
Emerging Stocks Snap Six-Day Advance on Europe, Growth Concerns

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-12-06T22:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/emerging-stocks-snap-six-day-advance-on-europe-growth-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, sending
the benchmark index down for the first time in seven days, as
Standard & Poor’s said it may downgrade the European Financial
Stability Facility, fueling concern the region’s debt crisis
will hurt the global economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 1.3 percent to 953.50.
The Bovespa added 1.1 percent on speculation Brazil will act to
boost growth after the economy stalled in the third quarter. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 1.5 percent after
Fitch Ratings said a Chinese property-price correction will lead
to worsening loan portfolios and Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its
estimate for China’s economic growth next year. Russia’s  Micex 
tumbled 4 percent.  The emerging markets measure pared losses of as much as 1.5
percent as the Bovespa rose and the Financial Times reported
that European Union officials were in talks to increase the size
of its rescue effort. S&P may cut the European Financial
Stability Facility’s top credit rating if any of its guarantors
have their debt grades cut, the company said. German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said S&P’s warning will help force
European leaders to redouble efforts to resolve the crisis.  “A slowing Europe is going to mean slowing emerging market
economic growth,”  Keith Springer , president of Springer
Financial Advisors in Sacramento, California, said by phone.
“When the developed world sneezes, the  emerging markets  catch
cold.”  Currencies Weaken  Most emerging market currencies fell against the dollar.
The Russian ruble weakened 1.5 percent, the biggest decline
among 25 emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg. Brazil’s real
slipped 0.3 percent and the Czech koruna lost 0.2 percent.  The MSCI’s index of developing nations has lost 17 percent
this year, more than the 6.7 percent slide for developed
markets. Companies in the developing-nation index trade at 8.4
times estimated earnings, less than the 9.8 average for
developed countries.  Brazil’s gross domestic product shrank 0.04 percent from
the previous three months, the first contraction since 2009, as
the country’s efforts to fight contagion from the European debt
crisis fell short.  Cia. Hering, Brazil’s second-biggest clothing retailer,
gained the most in seven weeks, adding 4.4 percent. Oil producer
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA  gained 1.5 percent, following crude
prices higher.  Poland’s  KGHM Polska Miedz (KGH)  SA, the copper miner with the
largest European output, fell 8 percent after agreeing to
acquire Canada’s Quadra FNX Mining Ltd. for about C$2.87 billion
($2.84 billion).  South Africa   The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index  slipped 0.3 percent in
Johannesburg. The  Taiex Index (TWSE)  slid 2 percent in  Taiwan  and the
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  sank 1 percent in Seoul.  Chinese banks’ exposure to the property market is
understated, Charlene Chu, head of China financial institutions
at Fitch Ratings, told reporters on a teleconference yesterday.
Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its estimate for China’s economic
 growth  next year to 7.9 percent from 8.6 percent as investment
in private housing slows and external demand weakens.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398)  dropped 1.2
percent in Hong Kong trading.  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  sank 1.8
percent, its first loss in four days.  STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670) , South Korea’s biggest bulk carrier, fell
4.5 percent, the most since Nov. 10, after the company said a
leak was found in a ballast tank on an iron-ore transport
vessel.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage points, to 397, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  Indian markets were closed for a holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  