-- 
Eritrea Rejects ‘Unjust’ Sanctions Imposed by United Nations

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-12-06T12:20:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/eritrea-rejects-unjust-sanctions-imposed-by-united-nations-1-.html
Eritrea’s government rejected
expanded sanctions adopted by the  United Nations , saying the
measures will heighten tensions in the Horn of  Africa  region and
bring economic hardship to the Eritrean people.  “The sanctions were the result of undisguised U.S.
hostility toward Eritrea,” the Foreign Ministry said in a
statement published on the government’s website today. “It was
an attempt by the U.S. administration to scapegoat Eritrea for
its faulty and failed policies in the Horn of Africa.”  Thirteen members of the UN Security Council yesterday voted
in favor of a resolution broadening the scope of a two-year-old
asset freeze and travel ban imposed on Eritrean individuals and
entities, while Russia and  China  abstained. A UN report
published in July accused Eritrea of supporting rebel groups in
the region, including al-Shabaab, which is fighting to oust
Somalia’s Western-backed government and establish Islamic law.  The report also accused the Eritrean government of planning
a failed plot to disrupt an African Union summit in  Addis Ababa ,
the capital of Ethiopia, in January by bombing civilian and
government targets, a charge which the resolution acknowledged.  Eritrea has denied any involvement in such a plot.  The text was diluted from an October draft that sought to
bar companies from investing in mineral resources and prohibit
the payment of a remittances tax.  Vancouver-based Nevsun Resources Ltd. is involved in a
gold, silver, copper and zinc mining project in Eritrea that
began commercial production in February, according to the
company’s website. Eritrea’s government has a 40 percent stake
in the  Bisha Mine , 150 kilometers west of Asmara, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  