-- 
Esprit Plummets on CFO Departure Amid Retailer’s Drive to Revive Earnings

-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 
2011-12-06T11:40:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/esprit-drops-as-cfo-departs-amid-revival-drive.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the clothing
retailer struggling to recover from a 98 percent profit slump,
fell the most in more than two months in Hong Kong trading after
Chief Financial Officer Chew Fook Aun quit.  The biggest clothing retailer listed in Hong Kong fell 11
percent to HK$10.72 and the close of trading in the city, its
biggest drop since Sept. 21. The stock is down 71 percent this
year compared with an 18 percent drop for the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  Chew’s resignation for personal reasons will take effect by
June 1 as he is “unable to spend the required time in  Europe ,”
the Hong Kong-based casual clothing chain said in a statement
yesterday. Esprit, which on Sept. 15 said its brand had “lost
its soul,” faces declining sales on the continent, where it
made 79 percent of revenue.  “His departure comes at a crucial time as the company has
just begun executing its transformation plan,” Vineet Sharma, a
consumer analyst at  Barclays Capital  who has an “underweight”
rating on the stock, said in a phone interview today. “It
raises concerns on whether the turnaround plan could have
execution risks or delays.”  Chief Executive Officer Ronald Van der Vis has said he
plans to turn the retailer around by improving fashion designs
to revive earnings in Europe while doubling China sales in four
years. Esprit is looking in and out of the company for Chew’s
replacement, Van der Vis said on a conference call yesterday.  Investors Raise Stakes  The company’s slide today is the biggest on the  Hang Seng .
Esprit yesterday climbed 8.7 percent after saying it would hold
conference call at 5 p.m. local time.  The stock has plunged 92 percent from its highest close of
HK$127.744 on Oct. 30, 2007, as rivals including Hennes &
Mauritz AB and Inditex SA’s Zara lured customers away.  Investors including Lone Pine Capital and Marathon Asset
Management have increased their holdings. Lone Pine raised its
stake to 7.2 percent from 3.22 percent in the past two months,
making it Esprit’s biggest shareholder, according to  Hong Kong 
stock-exchange  filings  and data compiled by Bloomberg. Marathon
Asset raised its holding to 6.25 percent from 4.95 percent in
the past six weeks, according to the filings.  Declining Europe Sales  The chain has begun “grouping various strategic functions
in its business headquarters in Ratingen,  Germany ,” the company
said in the statement. “This would also require the group chief
financial officer to travel extensively to Europe to supervise
the implementation of the transformation plan.”  It has no plans to move its financial headquarters out of
Hong Kong, Van der Vis said on the conference call.  Same-store sales in Europe fell 9.2 percent in local
currency terms in the three months through September. Esprit on
Oct. 31 said it faced “an increasingly challenging business
environment” in its biggest market.  Chew was appointed chief financial officer in February
2009. He previously held the same position at The Link
Management Ltd., manager of the Link Real Estate Investment
Trust. He was Kerry Properties Ltd.’s CFO from 1996 to 2004.  Chew, who boosted his stake in Esprit last month by buying
100,000 shares, will pursue a career “outside the company,”
according to the statement. “The changes in the role require
extensive traveling which I cannot afford,” Chew said on
yesterday’s conference call.  ‘Safe and Boring’  Chew’s stock purchase “implies he believes in the outlook
for the company,” said Gary Pinge, regional head of consumer
and gaming at  Macquarie Research .  Net income plunged last fiscal year because of the cost of
closing stores in Europe and selling its U.S. and Canada
operations. Sales in the year through June increased less than 1
percent after declining in the previous two years.  The retailer that started in California more than 40 years
ago hired the former brand director of Hennes & Mauritz in 2010
to rejuvenate its fashions, which Van der Vis said in September
“became too safe and boring.”  Esprit hired Holly Li, Adidas AG’s general manager for
north China, to be its CEO in the country starting Feb. 1, it
 said  last month.  Capital Spending  Van der Vis plans HK$7 billion in  capital spending  over
four years, mostly to expand or refurbish stores. A further
HK$11.5 billion will be allocated to operational spending, of
which HK$6.8 billion is for branding, Van der Vis said in
September at his earnings presentation, made in front of a
backdrop featuring model  Gisele Bundchen .  “We are still comfortable that the transformation plan is
secure,” he said on a conference call yesterday to discuss
Chew’s resignation.  A marketing campaign has increased “consumer
consideration” in both Germany and China, according to an
presentation the company made to investors last month.  Esprit made about 42 percent of last fiscal year’s HK$33.8
billion sales in Germany, with 7.9 percent coming from China,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The apparel company is “on track” with its plan to close
80 stores worldwide, including 24 in Germany, according to the
investor presentation.  Esprit, with a market value of about $1.8 billion, trades
at 41 cents per dollar of revenue, the lowest of clothing
companies valued at more than $1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. H&M trades at 3.28 times sales, while
Inditex is at 2.98. Esprit’s climb yesterday ahead of the
conference call shows “how much negativity is built in” the
stock, Macquarie’s Pinge said.  Esprit had more than 1,100 directly managed retail stores,
of which 300 were in  China , as of June. Esprit also had more
than 11,700 wholesale outlets, which include franchises and
shops in stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  