-- 
MetroPCS CFO Says AT&T’s T-Mobile USA Deal Likely to Fail

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-12-06T21:21:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/metropcs-s-carter-says-at-t-s-acquisition-of-t-mobile-usa-likely-to-fail.html
MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  Chief
Financial Officer J. Braxton Carter said AT&T Inc.’s attempt to
buy  T-Mobile USA  is likely to fail, signaling lack of confidence
by a company AT&T had approached to help with the transaction.  Carter made the comments at a UBS AG event in New York
today. AT&T, seeking regulatory approval for the deal, has been
in discussions with MetroPCS to sell spectrum and customers as a
way of propping up competition in the absence of T-Mobile,
people familiar with the matter said last month.  Discussing any scenarios to save the $39 billion deal is
“almost kind of moot at this point given the intense opposition
by the government,” Carter said. Companies involved need to
move on to “plan B,” he said.  The comments suggest the odds of AT&T completing the T-
Mobile takeover may be decreasing and that AT&T may need to find
another partner to buy some assets as part of the transaction.
The carrier has also been in talks with  Leap Wireless
International Inc. (LEAP) , the people close to the situation have said.  Brad Burns , a spokesman for AT&T, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  AT&T, based in Dallas, wants to work out an agreement with
the  Justice Department , which sued on Aug. 31 to block the deal.
If the two sides can’t reach a compromise, they’re scheduled to
go to trial in February.  AT&T  rose (T)  0.1 percent at $29.17 at the close in New York.
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , owner of T-Mobile USA, fell 0.5 percent to
9.15 euros in Frankfurt. MetroPCS climbed 7.8 percent to $9,
making it the biggest gainer in the  S&P 500 index .  Carter said MetroPCS is experiencing “very significant”
improvement in fourth-quarter churn, or customer defections, and
that demand for the Richardson, Texas-based company’s $40-a-
month prepaid plans is strong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  