-- 
Mets’ Loss of Jose Reyes to Miami Is Latest Setback for Struggling Club

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-06T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/mets-loss-of-jose-reyes-to-miami-is-latest-setback-for-struggling-club.html
Losing leading hitter  Jose Reyes  to
the division-rival Miami Marlins is the latest setback to a New
York Mets club that has struggled on and off the field since
moving to Citi Field in 2009.  The Mets have had losing records and declining attendance
for the past three seasons, and cut about 15 front-office jobs
two months ago while trying to repay a $25 million emergency
loan from  Major League Baseball .  Mets manager Terry Collins said he got a text message early
yesterday morning confirming that Reyes was moving to the
Marlins after nine seasons in New York.  “I’m a little disappointed that we didn’t get him back,”
Collins told reporters at the Baseball Winter Meetings in  Dallas .
“He’s one of my best players.”  Owner  Fred Wilpon , who said the Mets lost $51 million in
2010 and faced losses of $70 million in 2011, remains in a legal
battle with the trustee in charge of recovering money for
investors in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Wilpon offered to sell a minority stake in the team due to
the Madoff lawsuit.  David Einhorn , the manager of New York’s
$7.8 billion Greenlight Capital Inc. hedge fund, offered $200
million for a 33 percent interest before he withdrew because he
said the deal had become too complicated.  Mets General Manager  Sandy Alderson  said at the Winter
Meetings that Reyes’s departure was not due to ownership’s legal
problems. Alderson said that, while the Mets talked with the
shortstop’s agents, they never made a formal offer. ESPN said
Reyes’s deal with the Marlins is worth at least $111 million
over six years.  Losing $70 Million  “I really don’t think that Madoff has that much to do with
this,” Alderson told reporters. “When a team loses $70 million,
irrespective of  Bernie Madoff  or anyone else, that’s probably a
bigger factor in our approach to this season and the next couple
than anything else.”  Wayne McDonnell, an associate professor of Sports
Management at  New York University , said letting Reyes go is a
financially prudent move for the Mets.  “Sandy Alderson is in the process of revitalizing the
front office of the Mets and he’s rebuilding it to where it
operates like a small- to mid-market franchise,” McDonnell, who
created the school’s “Business of Baseball” program, said from
the Winter Meetings. “It’s going to take some time, but I think
it’s going to be done and this is a major step in that direction
whether fans wanted to see it or not.”  Dropping Ticket Prices  The Mets have cut ticket prices for 2012, the third
straight season they have done that at $850 million Citi Field.
Overall attendance has fallen from 3.2 million in 2009 to 2.6
million in 2010 and 2.4 million this past season.  The per-game average has fallen from almost 39,000 in the
stadium’s debut season to little more than 30,000 in 2011 and
the Mets have dropped from seventh among the 30 MLB clubs in
attendance in 2009 to 14th this past season.  “The Mets have finally taken a stand and drawn a line in
the sand,” McDonnell said. “They’ve said, ‘This is what we
need to do. We’re operating under a different set of financial
circumstances that are directly or indirectly affected by the
Madoff scandal, team attendance and team debt.’”  Asked by reporters whether the loss of Reyes would hurt
ticket sales, Alderson responded: “What do you think?”  The Mets went 77-85 this year to finish fourth in the five-
team  National League East  division, 25 games behind the
 Philadelphia Phillies . The Mets haven’t reached the postseason
since 2006. The Marlins finished last in the NL East at 72-90
this past season.  Marlins’ New Home  The Marlins, who are moving into a new retractable-roof
37,000-seat stadium next season and just changed their name from
the  Florida Marlins , have had a busy few months that included
the hiring of Ozzie Guillen as manager.  Reyes, 28, who hit .337 last season to become the first
Mets player to win the National League batting title, will be
moving to a Marlins team that also has a new reliever -- free
agent Heath Bell, 34, a three-time All-Star who saved 132 games
for the  San Diego  Padres the past three seasons.  Marlins owner Jeffrey Loria said the shortstop chose to
leave the Mets and sign with Miami because of his club’s new
direction.  “I think he looked at the roster, and I think he looked at
the new ballpark, and I think he looked at the city and I think
he looked at opportunity,” Loria told reporters at the Winter
Meetings.  Injury Issues  Reyes, a four-time All-Star who has led the National League
in stolen bases three times, batted .292 in nine seasons in  New
York  with 735 runs scored and 370 stolen bases. He’s missed 191
games because of injuries the past three years.  Reyes declined to negotiate a new deal with the Mets during
the season, saying he didn’t want any distractions. He was in
the option season of a four-year, $23.3 million contract. The
Marlins offered Reyes a contract worth $106 million for six
years, with an option for a seventh year at $22 million, ESPN
reported, citing people familiar with the negotiations it didn’t
name. If the Marlins decide against exercising the final-year
option, they’d have to pay Reyes $5 million, ESPN said.  “You have to draw a line somewhere, and based on our
experience -- not just with Jose, but with multiyear contracts
generally -- we decided that there were some conceptual
limitations to where we would go,” Alderson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  