-- 
EU, New Zealand Can’t Be World ‘Idiots’ on Climate, Envoy Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-12-06T12:50:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/eu-new-zealand-can-t-be-world-idiots-on-climate-envoy-says.html
The U.S. and  China  must agree to
greater transparency of promises to cut greenhouse gases if
other countries are expected to take on more emissions cuts
under the Kyoto Protocol,  New Zealand ’s climate envoy said.  New Zealand won’t sign up for a second round of emissions
cuts under the treaty unless a “Kyoto plus” deal is worked
out, Tim Groser, New Zealand’s chief envoy, said in an interview
in Durban,  South Africa , where more than 190 countries are
gathered for United Nations-led climate negotiations.  The plan calls for stronger assurances from the U.S., China
and other big emitters that they will live up to their voluntary
pledges to cut emissions through 2020. Countries that may choose
to stay in Kyoto after the first phase of cuts expires next year
need such guarantees to politically justify their decision to
remain in the pact, Groser said.  “We need to be able to go back to our own people, whether
we live in  France  or New Zealand, and say we aren’t the only
people doing something,” he said. “You will not carry public
opinion if the debate is ‘you are the only idiots doing
anything.’”  After nine days of meetings in the South African port city
of Durban, diplomats from 192 nations and the European Union
have made little progress on how to renew Kyoto, whose limits on
fossil fuel emissions for industrialized countries lapse at the
end of 2012. China wants industrial nations to sign up to
further commitments under the pact.  ‘Asking Too Much’  Japan, Russia and Canada say they won’t sign up for a
second commitment period. The U.S. never ratified the treaty
because it doesn’t require emissions cuts from big  developing
countries  such as China and  India .  Australia hasn’t said whether it will sign on for a second
commitment period, and the EU says it will extend Kyoto only if
all major emitters agree to forge a new legally binding treaty
that includes all countries by 2015.  The EU’s position is understandable though may not be
realistic, Groser said.  “At the end of the day you may be asking too much of
China, India,  Brazil  and the U.S. to commit unequivocally to
that,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  