-- 
EU’s Data-Protection Reform Should Inspire U.S., Reding Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-12-06T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/eu-s-data-protection-reform-should-inspire-u-s-reding-says.html
European Union reforms of 16-year-old
data-protection rules should inspire the U.S. to strengthen its
privacy regime, the EU’s justice chief said.  The EU data privacy reforms, which the European Commission
plans to present by the end of next month, should be “an
inspiration for changes in the U.S. and elsewhere,” EU Justice
Commissioner  Viviane Reding  said today. Referring to cloud
companies that lure clients by promising to protect their data
from the U.S. government, she urged for the free flow of
information.  “I do encourage cloud computing centers in  Europe . We need
more innovation, more research and more investment in the ICT
industry,” Reding said in prepared remarks for a speech in
Brussels. “But this cannot be the only solution. We need free
flow of data between our continents. It doesn’t make much sense
for us to retreat from each other.”  Deutsche Telekom AG ’s T-Systems information technology unit
is pushing regulators to introduce a certificate for German or
European cloud operators to help companies shield data from U.S.
government access through the Patriot Act. Some of the
surveillance powers of the act, passed after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks, have been opposed by lawmakers and outside
groups, including civil liberties activists.  Reding said she was “worried” that plans in the U.S. to
create a self-regulation regime for companies collecting data
“will not be sufficient to achieve full interoperability
between the EU and U.S.”  The commissioner last year proposed an overhaul of the EU’s
16-year-old data-protection policies to address online
advertising and social-networking sites. The bill, which the EU
regulator will formally propose by the end of January, will
include stricter sanctions and equip national data-protection
authorities with powers to levy administrative sanctions of as
much as 1 million euros ($1.3 million), or 5 percent of a
company’s annual sales, according to the latest draft, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  