-- 
Apple, E-Book Publishers Probed by European Union Regulators

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-06T21:41:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/eu-said-to-start-antitrust-review-into-e-book-pricing-sales-restrictions.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s biggest
technology company, and five e-book publishers are being
investigated by European Union antitrust regulators over deals
that may restrict sales across the region.  The probe targets the iPad-maker’s deals with  Lagardere
SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Livre,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Harper Collins, CBS Corp.’s
Simon & Schuster,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin and Verlagsgruppe Georg
von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan division, the European
Commission said in an e-mailed statement. Publishers’ deals with
retailers are also under scrutiny.  PricewaterhouseCoopers  said in a January report that
European e-book sales have been sluggish, partly due to the
small range of non-English titles and fixed price agreements
between publishers and stores in 13 countries. EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said last month that he wanted to
fight “artificial restrictions imposed by some companies to
cross-border trade” and was examining the way e-books are
distributed.  Today’s probe “will in particular investigate whether
these publishing groups and Apple have engaged in illegal
agreements or practices that would have the object or the effect
of restricting competition,” the Brussels-based authority said.  Amazon Sales  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest Internet retailer, may
sell as many as 5 million e-book readers in the fourth quarter,
according to a report from Forrester Research Inc. Amazon sold
about half of the 12.8 million e-book readers purchased
worldwide last year, IDC  said  in March. E-books are also sold
for media tablets such as the iPad and Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Galaxy.  Piracy, price and a lack of content for non-English-
speaking countries have stifled the spread of e-books in  Europe ,
according to Mario Lombardo, a senior research analyst at IDC.
In part because of the value added tax, many e-books cost the
same or more than hard-copy editions, he said.  “Local publishers are however now gearing up to offer
digital books, and all new editions are offered in both
formats,” Lombardo said in an e-mail. There’s “still a long way
to go,” he said.  Apple fell 0.3 percent to $391.69 at 10:57 a.m. in New York
trading. Amazon declined 1 percent to $194.35.  ITunes Settlement  The probe isn’t Apple’s first encounter with the EU’s
antitrust authority. The company settled an EU antitrust case in
2009 by agreeing to reduce prices for U.K. iTunes music
downloads and was probed over restrictions on iPhone
applications in a case the EU closed last year.  Some European newspapers also protested earlier this year
against Apple’s proposed subscription model for the iPad. Apple
and Samsung were recently quizzed by the commission over the use
of smartphone patents, regulators said last month.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, Paris-based
Lagardere and Macmillan declined to comment about today’s EU
announcement.  French technology news website 01net.com reported in March
that Editions Albin Michel SA president Francis Esmenard said
raids by regulators on his company and others were triggered by
a complaint from Amazon.  Amazon didn’t immediately respond to a call and an e-mail
seeking comment.  Fair Trading  Britain’s  Office of Fair Trading , which opened an
investigation in February, said in a statement on its website
today that it would drop its probe into e-books to allow EU
officials to take the lead.  “Pearson does not believe it has breached any laws, and
will continue to fully and openly cooperate with the
commission,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Harper Collins is “cooperating fully with the
investigation,” according to an e-mailed statement from
spokeswoman Siobhan Kenny. Simon and Schuster is also
cooperating with the probe, spokesman Adam Rothberg said in an
e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 