-- 
Euro-Area Maintains Growth; Exports Offset Construction Drop

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-12-06T12:18:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/euro-region-economy-stalls-exports-offset-construction-drop-1-.html
Euro-region economic growth held
steady in the third quarter as rising exports helped offset the
impact of a slump in construction.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.2 percent from the second
quarter, the European Union’s statistics office said today,
confirming an initial estimate published on Nov. 15. Exports
increased 1.5 percent from the second quarter, when they gained
1.1 percent, while household spending advanced 0.3 percent.
Construction output dropped 0.6 percent.  Europe ’s economy shows signs of weakening in the current
quarter as the fiscal crisis spreads from periphery nations to
core countries and global demand falters. Services and
manufacturing output contracted more than initially estimated in
November and German  investor confidence  dropped. The  European
Central Bank  will probably cut interest rates on Dec. 8, a
Bloomberg survey shows.  “In the fourth quarter, the overall growth picture will
certainly look weaker,” with GDP dropping 0.2 percent, said
 Marco Valli , chief euro-region economist at UniCredit Bank AG in
Milan. Still, “we remain happy with our view that the euro-zone
economy is not falling off a cliff. Growth should resume already
at the beginning of next year.”  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.3402 at 12:59 p.m. in Brussels.  Recession in Portugal  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, GDP rose 0.5 percent
in the third quarter, up from a 0.3 percent gain in the previous
three months.  France ’s economy returned to growth, while Spain
reported stagnation. Portugal remained in a recession.  The European Commission said on Nov. 10 that the euro-
region economy may expand 1.5 percent this year and 0.5 percent
in 2012. The ECB, which currently projects growth of 1.6 percent
and 1.3 percent for this year and next, respectively, will
publish its latest estimates on Dec. 8.  Adding to signs of a deepening slowdown, euro-region
 economic confidence  dropped more than economists forecast in
November as consumers and manufactures grew more pessimistic.
Unemployment increased to 10.3 percent in October from the
previous month, the highest in more than a decade.  Euro-region imports rose 1.1 percent in the third quarter,
up from a 0.3 percent gain in the previous three months, today’s
report showed.  Gross fixed capital formation  rose 0.1 percent
after stalling in the second quarter, and  government spending 
remained unchanged. Construction output had the biggest drop in
almost a year in the third quarter.  ‘New Fiscal Compact’  The ECB will lower its benchmark  interest rate  by 25 basis
points to 1 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey. The
central bank has been forced to purchase  government bonds  and
offer banks unlimited cash to fight the crisis, with President
 Mario Draghi  last month forecasting a “mild recession.”  Draghi, who took over last month, signaled last week that
the central bank could step up its efforts if euro-area
governments forge a closer fiscal union. Should a “new fiscal
compact” emerge, “other elements might follow,” he said.  “There should be scope for the ECB to undertake a more
aggressive policy response than the 25 basis point easing,”
said  Simon Smith , chief economist at foreign-exchange broker
FXPro Group Ltd. in  London . “But there are many aspects of ECB
policy now caught in the swirl of euro-zone debt crisis and
policy is about far more than just interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  