-- 
European Soccer Body to Probe Player Funds’ Effect on Premier League Teams

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-12-06T15:48:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/european-soccer-body-to-probe-player-funds-effect-on-premier-league-teams.html
European soccer’s governing body UEFA
is to investigate whether selling player transfer rights to
investors discriminates against  Manchester United  and other
teams in  England ’s Premier League, where it’s banned.  Clubs in  Portugal  can raise funds by selling part of the
rights to future transfer fees and the practice is spreading to
Spain and Turkey as teams are refused credit by banks. Benfica,
which leads United in their  Champions League  qualifying group,
got 44 million euros ($59 million) from the rights of 24 players
since 2009 sold to a fund managed by  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,
according to club filings.  UEFA  plans sanctions against European clubs that fail to
meet so-called financial fair play rules from 2014. The issue of
selling transfer rights will be investigated by Nyon,
Switzerland-based UEFA’s club licensing commission early next
year, Andrea Traverso, the ruling body’s head of club licensing
said in a telephone interview.  “The idea is to see whether these kind of practices will
have an effect on” financial fair play, Traverso said. “And if
necessary what kind of rule would need to be put in place to
mitigate any effect that is not desired.”  UEFA is pushing for teams to break even and will allow
owners to cover a maximum loss of 45 million euros for the 2013-
14 and 2014-15 seasons together. Clubs risk being banned from
the elite Champions League if they don’t comply.  Porto (FCP)  became one of the first European teams to sell shares
to third-party investors in 2004 after losses of 58 million
euros the previous three years. After raising as much as 6
million euros, it went on to win the Champions League that year
with  Jose Mourinho  as coach.  Banned Practice  The  Premier League  banned outside ownership of transfer
rights after it complicated striker Carlos Tevez’s move to
Manchester United in 2007.  “We are concerned that third-party ownership is permitted
under the current financial fair-play regulations and have
opened discussions with UEFA,” said a Premier League spokesman,
who declined to be named because of league policy.  Since last year, Sporting Lisbon and  Turkey ’s Besiktas have
sold the rights to at least nine players to Quality Sports
Investments Ltd., a Jersey-based investment fund, team filings
show.  English Rethink  Real Zaragoza, which is in administration, financed the
signing of goalkeeper Roberto Jimenez in the offseason with as
much as 8 million euros from an investment fund it declined to
identify, officials said. In  Germany , billionaire investor
Klaus-Michael Kuehne paid 12.5 million euros in return for a
stake in five players.  English authorities may have to reconsider the rule if UEFA
doesn’t ban the practice, Daniel Geey, a sports lawyer at Field
Fisher Waterhouse LLP in London, who’s written a report on the
subject, said in a telephone interview.  English teams are penalized twice, he said. Rivals can cut
their transfer outlay by part-financing deals with investors as
well as receiving a revenue boost from selling the rights to
under-contract players.  “The Premier League will look long and hard at the rule
bearing in mind the consequences of financial fair play for its
biggest clubs,” Geey said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net  or Alex Duff in  Madrid  
at  aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  