-- 
Europe Needs to Agree to More Fiscal Union at Summit, S&P’s Chambers Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   L i s a   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-12-06T22:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/europe-needs-to-agree-to-more-fiscal-union-at-summit-s-p-s-chambers-says.html
Standard & Poor’s  is looking for
euro-area policy makers to move the region closer to a “fiscal
compact” that would enable the  European Central Bank  to help
support euro-area nations, according to S&P’s  John Chambers .  European Union leaders plan to meet Dec. 8-9 in Brussels to
end a crisis that led to bailouts of Greece, Ireland and
Portugal, and now threatens to engulf Italy. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  presented a
plan yesterday to rewrite the EU’s governing treaty to allow
tighter economic cooperation.  “It’s key will be to get toward closer fiscal union,
fiscal compact,” Chambers, managing director of sovereign
ratings at S&P in New York, said of the European summit on
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with  Adam Johnson  and
Lisa Murphy. “That in turn would enable the ECB to be more
active in its securities market purchases.”  S&P put Germany, France and 13 other euro-area nations on
review for a downgrade yesterday, saying “continuing
disagreements among European policy makers on how to tackle”
the region’s debt crisis risks damaging their financial
stability. The move came four months after S&P cut the U.S. from
the top rating of AAA to AA+, saying “extremely difficult”
political discussions over how to reduce America’s more than $1
trillion budget deficit tainted the credit quality of the
world’s largest economy.  To avoid downgrade, the credit-rating firm is looking for
“further mutualization of not only obligations, but also
resources at the EU level,” Chambers said.  ‘Similar Concerns’  Treasuries have returned 3.4 percent since the U.S. was
downgraded to AA+ by S&P on Aug. 5, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. The New York-based unit of McGraw-Hill
Cos. said America was becoming “less stable, less effective and
less predictable.”  “Some of you will feel reminded of the rating action that
we took earlier this year on the U.S., which was driven by
similar concerns about the ability of policy makers to design
and implement policies in a timely manner that would mitigate
the risks of a financial and liquidity crisis emerging,”  Moritz Kraemer , S&P’s head of European sovereign ratings, said today in
a conference call. “It has to be said that the challenge for
the euro zone is of course much larger because of the
multilateral nature of the coordination problem is the real
challenge.”  Credit-default swaps tied to France fell 15 basis points on
Dec. 5 to 180 basis points, while contracts insuring against a
default on  Germany ’s debt declined about 5 basis points to 92
basis points, CMA data show. That compares with 51 basis points
for credit swaps on the U.S. and 89 basis points for the U.K.  ‘Political Strengths’  A basis point on a credit-swap contract protecting $10
million of debt for five years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.
Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Among the reasons that France is rated AAA, higher than the
U.S., are its political strengths, Chambers said. French
 government bonds  due in 10-years yield 1.15 percentage points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries.  “One of the strengths that France has versus the  United
States  are the political settings,” he said. “Obviously the
U.S. has the dollar and can set its monetary policy according to
conditions in its own economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  