-- 
European Stocks Drop as S&P Puts 15 Euro-Area Nations on Review

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-12-06T16:56:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/european-stock-futures-drop-finmeccanica-veolia-environnement-may-move.html
European stocks  fell, snapping two
days of gains for the benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, as
 Standard & Poor’s  put 15 euro-area nations on watch for
potential rating downgrades.  RWE AG (RWE)  tumbled 7.2 percent as  Germany’s second-largest
utility company  sought to sell shares.  Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s
biggest retailer, plunged 14 percent as it forecast falling
sales and earnings this year. Yara International ASA jumped the
most since April 2009.  The  Stoxx 600  slipped 0.3 percent to 241.92 at the close.
The gauge rallied 0.8 percent yesterday as Italy’s Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  introduced a proposal to cut his nation’s
debt. The gauge posted its biggest rally since November 2008
last week as central banks lowered the  interest rate  on dollar
funding and  China  reduced its reserve ratio for banks.  S&P’s statement “is for the most part already priced in
the markets; it just confirms the deterioration of the finances
of the countries in the region and the political dissensions,”
said John Plassard, director at Louis Capital Markets in Geneva.
“The downgrade warning can perhaps accelerate the
implementation of measures and reforms, but it might already be
too late.”  National benchmark indexes dropped in 12 of the 17 western-
European markets that were open today. France’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC) 
retreated 0.7 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index added less
than 0.1 percent. Germany’s DAX Index sank 1.3 percent.  Credit Ratings Review  Germany, France and four other euro-area nations may lose
their AAA credit ratings depending on the result of the summit
of European Union leaders on Dec. 9, S&P said late yesterday.
The ratings company put 15 euro nations on review for possible
downgrade.  “Systemic stresses in the euro zone have risen in recent
weeks and reached such a level that a review of all euro-zone
sovereign ratings is warranted,” S&P said in a statement.  The  European Financial Stability Facility , the bailout fund
for struggling euro-member countries that has funded rescue
packages for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal partially through bond
sales, may lose its top  credit rating  if any of its guarantors
have their own debt grade lowered, S&P said. If the EFSF has to
pay higher interest on its bonds, it may not be able to provide
as much funding for the most indebted nations.  Merkel, Sarkozy Statement  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy responded in a joint statement late yesterday
that they “took note” of the move by S&P, while both countries
“affirm their conviction” that proposals for fiscal union will
“strengthen coordination of budget and economic policy and
promote stability, competitiveness and growth.”  The rating reviews “will put further pressure on those
countries’ financing situation and make things not much easier
for them,” said Alessandro Fezzi, senior market analyst at LGT
Capital Management in Pfaeffikon, Switzerland. “The good thing
about S&P’s warning is that it brought markets back to a more
realistic view on the outcome of the upcoming EU summit.”  A measure of German  factory orders  jumped 5.2 percent in
October after a 4.6 percent drop in September, according to a
report from report from the Economy Ministry in Berlin.
Economists had forecast a 1 percent increase, according to the
 median of 34 estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey.  RWE slumped 7.2 percent to 28.15 euros, its biggest drop in
a month, as it raised about 2.1 billion euros ($2.8 billion) to
cut debt. The utility sold 80.4 million shares at 26 euros
apiece.  Utilities Drop  A gauge of  European utilities  was among the worst
performing of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600, losing
1.9 percent. EON AG,  Germany’s largest utility , slid 3.4 percent
to 17.57 euros, while  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA fell 1.9 percent to 20.98
euros.  Metro plunged 14 percent to 31.86 euros, its biggest slide
since its initial public offering in 1996, after forecasting
that sales and earnings will fall this year following a weak
start to the Christmas season.  Carrefour SA (CA) , the biggest
retailer in Europe by sales, retreated 6.3 percent to 19 euros.  Banks retreated, with  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  sliding 3.2
percent to 4.90 euros and  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  slumped 4.5 percent to
10.79 euros. Banco Espirito Santo SA,  Portugal’s biggest
publicly traded lender (BES)  by market value, sank 12 percent to 1.22
euros, its largest slump since 1993.  Finmeccanica SpA,  Italy’s largest arms company (FNC) , slipped 4.8
percent to 3.39 euros after S&P cut its long-term credit rating
to BBB- with a negative outlook, from BBB. The rating company
cited lower earnings and restructuring of some of Finmeccanica’s
divisions.  Valeo SA (FR)  dropped 3.1 percent to 32.63 euros after France’s
second-largest auto-parts maker said it bought the VTES unit
from Controlled Power Technologies Ltd.  Air France-KLM (AF)   Air France-KLM fell 3.4 percent to 4.35 euros after La
Tribune reported that the company will announce a freeze on
salaries and other measures following a board meeting on Jan.
11. The newspaper cited unidentified people. Air France hopes
for savings of a few dozen million euros in 2013 as a result of
the move, La Tribune said.  Victrex Plc (VCT) , a U.K. maker of heat-resistant plastics for
the automotive and energy industries, declined 3.7 percent to
1,148 pence as Charles Pick, an analyst at Numis Securities
Ltd., cut the stock to “add” from “buy.”  Yara International jumped 7.2 percent to 246.50 kroner
after the  biggest publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker (YAR)  said
its cash-return policy remains “firm.” The company expects to
return 40 percent to 45 percent of net income to its
shareholders measured as the sum of dividends and share
buybacks, averaged over the business cycle.  Wolseley Plc (WOS) , the world’s largest supplier of heating and
plumbing products, gained 3.6 percent to 1,972 pence after
reporting a 5 percent increase in first-quarter revenue. The
company reduced its debt by 41 percent to 587 million pounds
($914 million) over the 12 months through Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  