-- 
S&P Says Euro Region’s EFSF May Lose Rating If Any AAA Member Downgraded

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-12-06T17:04:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/europe-bailout-fund-faces-downgrade-if-any-aaa-rated-member-lowered-by-s-p.html
The European Financial Stability
Facility may lose its top  credit rating  if any of the bailout
fund’s six guarantors face a downgrade from AAA, Standard &
Poor’s said.  “We could lower the long-term credit rating on EFSF by one
or two notches if we were to lower the AAA sovereign ratings,
which are currently on creditwatch, on one or more of EFSF’s
guarantor members,” S&P said in a statement today.  At the same time, the ratings company said it “could
affirm the AAA ratings on EFSF and its issues if we affirm the
rating on all six of EFSF’s guarantor members currently rated
AAA.” Germany,  France , the Netherlands,  Finland ,  Austria  and
Luxembourg are the top-rated nations backing the rescue fund.  European stocks the euro fell after S&P said late yesterday
that it may cut the debt grade of 15 euro nations, including
Germany and France. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said today the downgrade warning should spur European leaders to
ratchet up efforts to resolve the region’s debt crisis at a
summit in Brussels on Dec. 8-9.  “The crisis has become a crisis of euro-zone governance
and crisis management,”  Moritz Kraemer , managing director of
European sovereign ratings at S&P, said on a conference call
today. He said the summit is of the “utmost importance” and
that leaders must address the turmoil “in a more robust and
comprehensive way than what we’ve seen so far.”  Stocks Decline  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.3 percent at the close
today, having earlier dropped as much as 0.8 percent. National
benchmark indexes dropped in 12 of the 17 western-European
markets that were open today. The euro slipped 0.1 percent
against the dollar, while French bonds declined, pushing the
yield on the 10-year debt up 10 basis points to 3.24 percent.  S&P said today it could affirm the rating on the EFSF if
one or more of its guarantor countries lost their top rating,
but it had evidence that the nations “were implementing further
credit enhancements that were in our view sufficient to mitigate
the relevant guarantor members’ reduced creditworthiness.”  The company last night rebuked leaders for their
“continuing disagreement” over how to best tackle the crisis
that now threatens to tip the global economy into recession.  “The truth is that markets in the whole world right now
don’t trust the euro area at all,” Schaeuble said today in
Vienna. S&P’s statement will prompt European leaders “to do
what we’ve promised, namely to take the necessary decisions
step-by-step and to win back the confidence” of investors.  Merkel-Sarkozy Charge  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and France’s Nicolas Sarkozy are leading the charge toward the latest crisis fix
after agreeing a joint position on automatic penalties for
deficit violators and anchoring debt limits into euro states’
constitutions. Investors are looking for such an agreement on
closer fiscal cooperation in the euro area to trigger
intensified action from the  European Central Bank .  “The ECB is somewhat hesitant to engage in full-throttle
QE,” Kraemer said. “The first steps will have to be made by
politicians and the summit is very important.”  With EU leaders due to gather in a little over 48 hours,
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  arrived in Berlin for
talks with Schaeuble after meeting earlier today with ECB
President  Mario Draghi  and Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann in
 Frankfurt . The ECB holds a policy meeting on Dec. 8.  Geithner said at a press conference in Berlin that it’s
“very important” for  Germany  and France to succeed in their
efforts to strengthen the European Union, and that he’s “very
encouraged” by recent developments.  “While we’re of the opinion that politicians are keenly
aware of challenges, our experience with past summits suggests
that it’s far from certain that an outcome would” bring
“confidence to the market,” S&P’s Kraemer said. “If that was
to be unsuccessful, we anticipate the possibility of another leg
downward of the crisis and market confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  