-- 
Euro Weakens Amid Concern Region’s Leaders May Fail in Debt Crisis Fix

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-12-07T17:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/euro-snaps-three-day-decline-against-yen-before-europe-holds-crisis-summit.html
The euro declined against most of its
major counterparts as concern increased that European leaders
will struggle to agree to measures needed to stem the region’s
debt crisis at a summit this week.  The 17-nation currency traded little changed against the
dollar as three euro-area officials said that the  European
Central Bank  may announce a range of measures tomorrow to
stimulate bank lending. European leaders gather for a summit in
Brussels the next two days.  Australia ’s dollar rose after gross
domestic product grew faster than economists forecast last
quarter.  “You have a lot of uncertainty in the market before the
meetings,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in New York. “It really comes down
to the next two days. The market has high expectations for this
and if the market is disappointed you could see risk being taken
off and really strong moves.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3409 at 12:34 p.m. in New
York, after rising as much as 0.4 percent. It traded at 104.13
yen. The Japanese currency was little changed at 77.66 per
dollar.  Bank Funding  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro payments into dollars, was 109 basis points
below the euro interbank offered rate today, down from minus 119
yesterday. That’s the least since Nov. 14.  The ECB said demand for three-month dollar loans jumped to
$50.7 billion today, following last week’s concerted action with
five other central banks to lower  interest rates  on such loans.
That compares with the $395 million lent in the last such
offering on Nov. 9.  Europe’s banks will compete with their governments to
borrow $2 trillion next year as the two groups refinance
maturing bonds and bills.  The euro weakened after a German government official said
the nation rejects proposals to combine current and permanent
euro-area rescue funds. The government official spoke to
reporters in Berlin today on condition of anonymity because the
negotiations are private.  The official’s comments came after the Financial Times
reported yesterday that European Union leaders may agree on a
package including the existing 440 billion euro ($588 billion)
bailout fund and a new 500 billion euro facility. Negotiations
were started about pairing the two, according to two people
familiar with the discussions, Bloomberg News reported on Oct.
20.  ECB Moves  The ECB will reduce its  benchmark rate  to 1 percent from
1.25 percent tomorrow, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Additional options that the central bank is considering
include loosening collateral criteria so that institutions have
more access to cheap ECB cash and offering them longer-term
loans to grease the flow of credit to the economy, said the
officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions are private. Two said an interest rate cut is
likely, with only the size of the reduction to be determined for
the monthly decision tomorrow.  “We could see a rate cut tomorrow, as well as a little bit
of disappointment over the prospects for the EU summit,” said
Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk
at Societe Generale SA in  New York . “While austerity and budget
discipline and sanctions are worthwhile causes, you still have a
debt problem.”  Euro Drops  The euro has fallen 1.2 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes tracking 10
developed-nation currencies. The yen has advanced 2.7 percent,
the best performance, and the dollar has strengthened 2.2
percent.  The U.S. received its highest rating from international
investors in more than two years on new optimism that the
world’s largest economy will weather the financial crisis in
Europe and avoid a recession in 2012, according to the quarterly
Bloomberg Global Poll conducted Dec. 5-6 of 1,097 investors.  More than two in five of those surveyed -- 41 percent --
identify the U.S. as among the markets that will perform best
over the next year. That’s up from less than one in three who
felt that way in September and is the biggest percentage for the
U.S. since the survey began in October 2009.  Dollar Measure  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six major trading
partners, fell 0.1 percent to 78.428.  Never before has the euro influenced U.S. stocks as much as
this year, a sign that American equities aren’t going anywhere
until  Europe ’s credit crisis is solved.  The link between the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  and
swings in the currency reached a record on Dec. 2, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called correlation
coefficient showing how much two markets rise and fall in tandem
hit 0.85, the highest level since the euro was founded in 1999,
data on 60-day rolling averages show. A reading of 1 means
assets are moving in lockstep.  The Australian dollar strengthened after the Bureau of
Statistics said the economy expanded 1 percent in the three
months ended Sept. 30, after growing a revised 1.4 percent in
the prior quarter, the fastest pace in four years.  “The GDP data was strong and that is bullish for the
Aussie,” said  Thomas Harr , head of Asian currency strategy at
Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore . The market may “take back
some of the rate-cut expectations.”  The Aussie advanced as much as 0.5 percent to $1.0299.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  