-- 
Euro Weaker After S&P’s Downgrade Warning; Canada’s Dollar Gains on Carney

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-12-06T22:14:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/euro-gains-as-s-p-review-pushes-eu-leaders-to-solve-region-s-debt-crisis.html
The euro fell against the yen after
 Standard & Poor’s  warned it may downgrade the European Financial
Stability Fund reinforcing concern that policy makers haven’t
contained the region’s debt crisis.  The euro rose erased losses against the dollar after the
Financial Times reported European governments may combine the
temporary and planned permanent rescue facilities to increase
funding before a summit this week. Canada’s dollar strengthened
against most of its major counterparts as the central bank kept
 interest rates  unchanged and Governor  Mark Carney  noted stronger
economic data in the U.S. and Canada. The Swiss franc weakened
against all its major counterparts after consumer prices dropped
in November.  “The EFSF downgrade has more potential impact than any
individual downgrade in the  euro zone ,” said Tommy Molloy,
chief dealer at FX Solutions, a currency brokerage in Saddle
River, New Jersey. “Apart from the general knee jerk reaction
the whole market has shrugged off the S&P warning and the euro
is at $1.34 as we wait for the EU Summit later this week.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3402 at 5 p.m. in New
York after gaining as much as 0.2 percent. The 17-nation
currency dropped 0.1 percent to 104.17 yen. The dollar weakened
0.1 percent to 77.73 yen.  Fund Expansion  The Financial Times reported the funding proposal was being
debated ahead of the Dec. 8 summit. Bloomberg News reported on
Oct. 20 that negotiations over pairing the two funds were
happening, according to two people familiar with the
discussions. Operating the ESM in combination with the 440
billion-euro ($590 billion) temporary fund next year would
potentially boost  Europe ’s anti-crisis resources to 940 billion
euros.  “The fact that there would be more money available would
be a good thing because that has been a criticism of previous
plans,” said Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in Stamford
Connecticut. “The market is playing optimism ahead of the
summit; the expectations are not for a final proposal on Friday
but anything showing modest signs of progress will be well
received.”  The franc declined 0.6 percent to 92.59 centimes per
dollar, and weakened 0.6 percent to 1.2409 per euro after the
 Federal Statistics Office  said consumer prices decreased 0.5
percent from a year earlier. That is the biggest drop since
October 2009.  Swiss Economy  “The latest economic data out of  Switzerland  suggests that
deflation is biting even harder than expected,”  Sebastien Galy ,
a London-based senior foreign-exchange strategist, wrote in an
e-mailed report. “Faced with the hit on growth and inflation,
the odds of a move by the SNB are rising. The ECB is also
potentially at risk of a move to loosen monetary policy which
could pressure euro-Swiss franc lower.”  The franc may decline to between 1.25 and 1.37 per euro
during the next six months, Galy wrote.  The Swiss government said last week it’s willing to
“examine the feasibility of supporting measures” to aid the
central bank in its defense of a 1.20 ceiling versus the euro.  Australia ’s dollar fell against the dollar after the
 Reserve Bank  cut its key cash rate target by a quarter-
percentage point to 4.25 percent. The decision completed the
first back-to-back easing since February 2009.  The Australian dollar weakened 0.3 percent to $1.0245.  Canada  Gains  Canada’s dollar strengthened 0.6 percent to C$1.0100 per
 U.S. dollar  after the  Bank of Canada  kept its benchmark rate at
1 percent.  “On balance, recent economic indicators in Canada suggest
that growth in the second half of this year is slightly stronger
than the Bank projected in October,” the central bank’s
statement said. “Recent economic data suggest that growth in
the  United States  has been slightly more robust than
anticipated.”  S&P added the bailout fund today to the 15 euro nations
placed on a negative outlook yesterday before a summit meeting
this week.  The euro area’s six AAA rated countries are among those
placed on a negative outlook, and their ratings may be cut
depending on the result of a summit of European leaders on Dec.
9, S&P said yesterday in a statement. The company said ratings
may be cut by one level for Austria, Belgium, Finland,  Germany ,
the Netherlands and Luxembourg, and by up to two levels for the
other governments.  Euro Funding  “We could lower the long-term  credit rating  on EFSF by one
or two notches if we were to lower the ‘AAA’ sovereign ratings,
which are currently on CreditWatch, on one or more of EFSF’s
guarantor members,” S&P said in a statement today.  The facility’s 2.75 percent bonds due July 2016 fell after
Standard & Poor’s said it placed the fund on watch negative. The
notes fell to 101.42 cents on the euro, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices.  Nomura International Plc cut its forecast for the euro to
$1.20, citing the risk that Italy will default next year if the
 European Central Bank  fails to step up support for the country.  The shared currency is down 1 percent this month against
nine developed nation currencies, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has gained 2 percent
and the yen is up 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  