-- 
Exelon to Boost Maryland Wind, Solar for Merger Approval

-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 
2011-12-06T00:40:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/exelon-to-boost-maryland-wind-solar-for-merger-approval-1-.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s offer to increase by
nearly a third the amount of wind or solar power it will build
in  Maryland  falls short of new demands by state officials who
oppose the company’s purchase of Baltimore-based  Constellation
Energy Group Inc. (CEG)   Exelon said it will spend more than $220 million to build
175 megawatts of new power generation in the state, with 55
megawatts of that from wind or solar sources, according to a
filing today with state regulators who must approve the
transaction. The company previously had proposed adding 25
megawatts of renewable energy in the state, with an additional
$10 million invested in electric vehicles.  Maryland Attorney General Douglas Gansler said the state’s
concerns with the merger would be satisfied if Exelon committed
to developing 375 megawatts of power from renewable sources,
more than six times the company’s proposal. The state demanded
350 megawatts of land-based wind generation and 25 megawatts of
power generated from poultry litter and other biomass sources.  An investment on that scale would mitigate the public harm
of the merger, including job losses, “many of which could be
erased through green jobs associated with the development and
maintenance of the new renewable energy projects,” Gansler said
in a filing made on behalf of Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley 
and the Maryland Energy Administration.  ’A Good Package’  Christopher Crane, Exelon’s president and chief operating
officer, described the company’s latest offer as a “good
package” that will add more than $445 million to Maryland’s
economy. The company listened carefully to the concerns of the
state and other interested parties before enhancing its offer,
Crane said in a statement.  The five-member Maryland Public Service Commission held 11
days of hearings to review the acquisition last month and will
decide whether to approve it by Jan. 5.  O’Malley successfully battled two prior merger attempts by
Baltimore-based Constellation and may be one of the biggest
political obstacles to Exelon’s transaction. The governor, a
strong advocate for wind and solar energy, has been pushing
Exelon to boost its investment in clean energy in the state.  Other parties with an interest in the merger continue to
raise questions about its impact on power prices in Maryland and
customers of Baltimore Gas & Electric Co., Constellation’s
regulated utility.  Paula Carmody, People’s Counsel for the state of Maryland,
suggested the state utility commission double a proposed merger-
related rebate to consumers to $200 and to require a three-year
rate freeze.  Job Losses  The International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers urged
Maryland regulators to deny approval of the merger in a filing
to the commission today, citing potential job losses.  Electricite de France SA (EDF) , the partner in Constellation’s
five nuclear reactors, reiterated its opposition to the
transaction, claiming the merger’s benefits “are both woefully
inadequate and totally illusory. Maryland jobs will be lost,
Maryland tax revenues will decline, and Maryland’s ability to
influence its electric generation facilities will be severely
limited.”  Utilities analyst  Paul Patterson  suggested the differences
may still be reconciled.  “A lot of times a settlement doesn’t happen until they’re
on the courthouse steps,” Patterson, a New York City-based
analyst with Glenrock Associates, said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  