-- 
Exxon CEO Expects Abu Dhabi to Alter Crude Concession After 2014

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-12-06T11:47:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/exxon-ceo-expects-abu-dhabi-to-alter-crude-concession-after-2014.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
biggest company by market value, expects Abu Dhabi to change the
terms for the Persian Gulf emirate’s main oil producing
concession when the current agreement expires in 2014, its chief
executive officer said.  “The concession structure and terms that served all
parties well in the past are just no longer appropriate in
today’s environment, both in terms of cost and prices,”  Rex Tillerson  said today at the World Petroleum Congress in Doha.
“Everyone is committed to finding that new structure that
allows us to continue to work together.”  Exxon,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc  produce oil at
onshore fields in Abu Dhabi under a concession agreement that
dates back to 1939. The fields began commercial production in
1960 and  Abu Dhabi ’s state-run oil company joined as a partner
in the 1970s, forming the current operating venture  Abu Dhabi
Co. for Onshore Oil Operations , or ADCO. ADCO holds the
concession for six main onshore fields until 2014.  The joint venture agreement is “under very active
discussion with the national oil company and government of Abu
Dhabi,” Tillerson said, without giving further details. Shell’s
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser , also attending the Doha
conference, declined to comment on the concession.  Abu Dhabi holds more than 90 percent of crude in the United
Arab Emirates, one of the few Middle East states that allow
foreign companies to explore for and produce oil within its
borders. State-owned Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., or Adnoc, holds
60 percent of ADCO, with the international oil companies Exxon,
Shell, BP,  Total SA (FP)  and Partex Oil & Gas holding the rest.  Abu Dhabi is the largest sheikhdom of the United Arab
Emirates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net ; 