-- 
Hezbollah Chief Says Arms Being Upgraded, Fighters Increased

-- B y   I n a l   E r s a n   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-12-06T12:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/hezbollah-chief-says-arms-being-upgraded-fighters-increased-1-.html
Lebanon’s Hezbollah movement has
added fighters and is upgrading its weapons, Sayyed  Hassan Nasrallah , secretary-general of the Shiite Muslim group, said
after his first public appearance in three years.  Hezbollah won’t give up its arms even through dialogue,
Nasrallah said in a televised speech in  Beirut  today that was
viewed by thousands of followers marking the Ashura
commemoration of the death of Prophet Muhammad’s grandson, Imam
Hussein, in the seventh century.  The black-turbaned, bearded Nasrallah was earlier received
with cheers when he briefly appeared surrounded by bodyguards at
the event. It was his first public appearance since a
celebration for the release of prisoners by Israel in 2008.  Hezbollah gained popularity in Lebanon by helping to force
Israel’s army to end its occupation of the country’s south in
2000. The group, which also fought  Israel  in a month-long war in
2006, says it wants to maintain its arms to defend Lebanon from
potential Israeli attacks. Hezbollah, backed by Iran and Syria,
is classified as a terrorist group by the U.S.  The real domestic security threat is the proliferation of
small arms in the hands of all parties in Lebanon, Nasrallah
said. He warned that some groups, which he didn’t name, were
trying to restart a civil war in Lebanon, which was largely
destroyed during 15 years of internal strife that ended in 1990.  Lebanon has been in a political crisis since the 2005
assassination of former Prime Minister  Rafiq Hariri , which led
to street protests that forced Syrian troops to end a 29-year
military domination of the country. Tensions rose in Lebanon
after protests began in mid-March against the regime of Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad.  Hezbollah opposes civil war in  Syria , where some parties
are inciting unrest to replace the Assad regime, which backs
Hezbollah and other anti-Israeli militant groups, with another
regime that wouldn’t have the same policies, Nasrallah said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inal Ersan in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  