-- 
MF Global Parent Creditors Clash With Brokerage Customers

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-06T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/mf-global-parent-creditors-clash-with-brokerage-customers.html
Creditors of bankrupt MF Global
Holdings Ltd. are clashing with customers of the  MF Global Inc. 
brokerage over assets as each side seeks more money for itself.  Creditors of the parent company formerly run by  Jon Corzine 
yesterday faulted the brokerage trustee James Giddens for
planning to distribute $2.1 billion to customers without
verifying that the customers are entitled to receive the funds.
Separately, brokerage customer Sapere Wealth Management LLC
asked a federal judge yesterday to rearrange MF Global Holdings’
bankruptcy so commodity customers of its brokerage get priority
for their claims.  The quest for more assets intensified after Giddens said
money missing from the brokerage’s U.S. commodity customer
accounts, which should have been segregated, may exceed $1.2
billion, more than double the previous estimate. The parent
company’s creditors also are facing uncertain paybacks as cash
dwindles to a projected $3 million by Jan. 6, according to
filings.  Still, getting priority claims from an affiliate might be
difficult, said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy law professor at
 Seton Hall University  in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  If brokerage customers have a shortfall, “their claim for
the remainder is on a par with other unsecured creditors,” he
said in an e-mail. “I don’t know of any argument for priority
of such a claim.”  Right to Cash  In its filing, Sapere said the judge might help brokerage
customers by reviewing the parent’s right to use cash. The
parent currently has permission to use the cash until Dec. 9,
when the judge is due to revisit the matter.  The holding company needs the money to pay employees and
cover real estate and technology costs, according to court
papers. Projected cash outflows for the company and affiliates
are $11.8 million through Jan. 6 and would leave a balance
available for use of $3 million on that day, according to
filings.  Other commodity customers have objected to the parent’s
plan to give special protection to lenders including JPMorgan
Chase & Co., saying that would hurt them.  The holding company’s creditor committee meanwhile has seen
large payouts to commodity customers. Paying the wrong people or
paying out too much will hurt the bankrupt parent company’s
estate, which has claims against the brokerage and owns its
equity, creditors’ lawyer  Martin Bienenstock  said in a court
filing yesterday.  Commodity Accounts  Giddens, who is liquidating the brokerage, has transferred
about 38,000 commodity accounts to other firms, and said he
plans to sell 330 securities accounts. Three transfers of
collateral made and pending will give commodity customers about
$4 billion of their assets, according to court filings.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion. Jon Corzine, the former co-chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  