-- 
Failure of Putin’s Party Exposes Lack of Options in Russia: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-06T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/failure-of-putin-s-ruling-party-exposes-a-lack-of-options-in-russia-view.html
The humiliation of  Russia ’s ruling
party in elections on Sunday demonstrates just how fed up
Russians are with a regime that has brought them crushing
corruption and 12 years of monolithic rule. It also exposes a
deeper problem: the lack of a viable way to bring about peaceful
democratic change.  The official results, which shrank the parliamentary
majority of  Vladimir Putin ’s United Russia party to 53 percent
from 70 percent, only partly reflect what was a surprising
triumph of grass-roots activism. Hundreds of Russians, many of
whom had never before shown much interest in politics, came out
to act as monitors and document the Kremlin’s efforts to “win”
the vote. Thousands joined protests Monday night in Moscow,
 chanting  such slogans as “Putin is a thief!”  Thanks to the monitors’ vigilance, we know that the
elections were probably much worse for  United Russia  than the
official tally suggests. Despite widespread harassment and
mysterious outages on monitoring websites, observers reported
thousands of violations and posted videos on the Internet. One
 video  showed pre-stuffed voting urns at a just-opened polling
station. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in  Europe 
 noted  “several serious indications of ballot box stuffing.”  One homegrown monitoring organization, Citizen Observer,
 estimated  as of Monday evening that United Russia won only 25.9
percent of the vote at those Moscow voting stations where
monitors found minimal violations, compared with an official
result of 46.6 percent throughout the city. The lower number
meshes with an exit poll by the Public Opinion Foundation, which
 gave  United Russia 27.5 percent of the Moscow vote.  The Kremlin’s performance adds to mounting evidence that
its implicit social compact with Russians -- economic growth in
return for a firm grip on power -- is falling apart,
particularly since President Dmitri Medvedev announced in
September that he would step down to make way for what could be
12 more years of Putin’s Russia. A nascent middle class is
losing patience with its lack of control over officials whose
greed and lawlessness complicate everything from running a
business to getting a driver’s license.  Beyond protest, though, these elections haven’t achieved
much positive change. The Kremlin has so assiduously eliminated
any viable competition that the official opposition offers
little outlet for legitimate dissent.  The votes United Russia lost, for example, went mainly to
two parties that owe their continued existence largely to the
Kremlin: the Communists and the deceptively named  Liberal
Democrats , led by veteran ultranationalist  Vladimir Zhirinovsky .
A third gainer was Just Russia, a socialist party created with
Kremlin support. This so-called opposition isn’t likely to
undermine Russia’s leadership on important parliamentary votes.
Tellingly, Alexei Navalny, an anti-corruption  blogger  who has
become a political celebrity, has shown little interest in
forming a party at all.  All this means that we can expect tensions between an
increasingly desperate Kremlin and a disenfranchised electorate
to grow. Putin’s best option is to heed the people’s message and
hold free and fair presidential elections in March. His record
in this regard, however, doesn’t inspire hope. If the government
can’t offer a legitimate mechanism to transfer power, a violent
Russian Spring is not unthinkable.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 