-- 
New York Fed Said to Employ ‘Dollar Rolls’ in Mortgage-Bond Program Shift

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-12-06T17:50:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/fed-said-to-use-dollar-rolls-in-mortgage-bond-program-shift.html
The  Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York 
entered into paired contracts to buy and sell mortgage
securities for the first time since it began reinvesting in the
debt in October, in a move that may reduce funding costs.  The so-called dollar roll transactions will “facilitate
the settlement of our outstanding MBS purchases,” Jonathan
Freed, a New York Fed spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The central bank is purchasing bonds for December
settlement and agreeing to sell the same amount of similar debt
in January, said two people familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified because details haven’t been
disclosed. Funding costs for mortgage-bond investors, which had
risen in anticipation of banks trimming their balance sheets
before year-end, fell after the Fed transactions.  “I applaud the Fed,”  Scott Simon , mortgage-bond head at
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., which runs the world’s largest debt fund, said in an e-
mail. “This both makes them money and helps the MBS market.
There wasn’t enough year-end balance sheet.”  The central bank began  reinvesting  proceeds from its
holdings of $1.4 trillion in housing debt into government-backed
mortgage bonds to help support the real-estate market and
homeowner refinancing, shifting from additional purchases of
Treasuries. On Nov. 30, the Fed joined with global central banks
to cut emergency dollar funding costs for European lenders as
the region’s sovereign debt crisis roils markets.  ‘Funding Pressure’  The New York Fed says on its  website  that it “may use
dollar roll transactions if needed to facilitate settlement” of
its purchases. The Fed posts details on its mortgage bond buying
each Thursday.  With dollar rolls, an investor seeking to borrow money
enters into contracts to sell mortgage securities in any month
and then buy similar bonds the following month; a lender would
undertake the opposite trades. Investors entering into
transactions for other reasons may be on either side of the
contracts.  The transactions are similar to so-called  repurchase
agreement , or repo, loans.  The Fed’s latest move in the mortgage bonds may help
“alleviate some mild funding pressure” in the market, said
Bryan Whalen, co-head of mortgage bonds at Los Angeles-based
firm TCW Group Inc., which oversees $120 billion in assets.  The implied cost of dollar-roll financing for some of
 Fannie Mae ’s securities rose earlier yesterday to more than 40
basis points, depending on prepayment-speed estimates, according
to Whalen. That compared with 27 basis points for similar repo
loans, he said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Backstop Role  That disconnect “implied a little bit of stress” in money
markets, he said. “It’s typical to see this type of mispricing
of liquidity” around year-end, and  Europe ’s crisis is
exacerbating the situation, Whalen said.  The implied cost of dollar-roll funding for Fannie Mae’s
3.5 percent 30-year securities fell to between 10 basis points
and 20 basis points, depending on prepayment assumptions, early
today, according to Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Mahesh Swaminathan. It had increased about 25 basis points since the
end of October, he said in an e-mail.  The “Fed’s move to buy dollar rolls underscores their
backstop role to support liquidity in the market,” Swaminathan
said. “I don’t think they are going to do these regularly. It
is something intended to be done only when liquidity is
perceived to be low.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 