-- 
Tarullo Says Building Bank Capital Is Best Way to Avert Taxpayer Bailouts

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-12-06T17:56:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/fed-s-tarullo-says-adequate-capital-best-way-to-avoid-bailouts.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said banks need to build sufficient reserve capital to
avert taxpayer-funded bailouts similar to the Troubled Asset
Relief Program.  “The best way to avoid another TARP is for our large
regulated institutions to have adequate capital buffers,
reflecting the damage that would be done to the financial system
were such institutions to fail,” Tarullo said today in
testimony to the Senate Banking Committee.  The TARP is a $700 billion fund created by the government
to backstop bank capital and financial institutions in the
aftermath of the U.S. financial crisis caused by rising defaults
on home loans.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Fed to impose stricter
capital standards for U.S. banks with total assets of $50
billion or more. In addition, the  Basel  Committee is
establishing a surcharge for global banks with a large systemic
footprint.  “No decision has yet been made” on whether the tougher
capital guidelines for large U.S. banks that are not on the
global bank list “will be in the form of a quantitative
surcharge,” Tarullo said.  “Analysis of the systemic footprints of these other U.S.
bank holding companies suggests that even if surcharges were to
apply, their amounts would be quite modest,” he said.  Capital Surcharge  In a question-and-answer session with Senator  Jeff Merkley ,
an Oregon Democrat, Tarullo said that he preferred a higher
capital surcharge than the 2.5 percentage points agreed upon by
international regulators in Basel,  Switzerland , this year.  “Personally I would have been a little happier with a
little higher number,” Tarullo said. Still, the 2.5 percentage
point surcharge was “well within that range which analytically
we think will provide that kind of additional buffer support.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  agreed earlier
this year that global banks such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG whose failure could send shock waves throughout
the financial system should apply a systemic risk surcharge of 1
percentage point to 2.5 percentage points. Banks could face an
additional one point charge if they grew even larger.  Tarullo took office at the Board of Governors in January
2009. He is the governor in charge of banking supervision and
regulation, and has overseen an overhaul of the Fed’s approach
to oversight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  