-- 
Lenders Must Report Rivals’ Suspicious Trades, FSA Says

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-12-06T15:52:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/finance-firms-must-report-rivals-suspicious-trades-fsa-says.html
Banks face fines if they don’t tell
regulators about suspicious transactions at rivals, even if they
don’t have proof of wrongdoing, a lawyer at the Financial
Services Authority said today.  U.K. financial institutions aren’t doing enough to report
suspected market abuse, Jamie Symington, the head of the
wholesale group in the FSA’s enforcement division.  “We still have a problem to overcome in terms of the
mindset of market players,” Symington said in a speech in
 London . “Part of the issue, we believe, is that market players
are not sufficiently focused on the requirement to submit
suspicious transaction reports as an obligation. You can
therefore expect to see the FSA more focused on holding market
participants to account on this obligation in the future.”  The regulator has “invested heavily” in enhancing its
surveillance capabilities and will complete a revamp of its
database of market transactions next year, Symington said. Last
month, the FSA enacted rules to ensure that mobile telephone
conversations involving traders will be recorded for use in
possible market-abuse probes.  The requirement isn’t new and “most firms are fully
focused” on complying, said  Simon Morris , a regulatory lawyer
at  CMS Cameron McKenna  in London.  “While it’s true that a firm does not need proof of
wrongdoing, it does need a reasonable belief that market abuse
has taken place, and the FSA will challenge a reporting firm to
explain the bases for its suspicion,” Morris said.  Market Abuse  Symington said the FSA relies on the industry to fight
market abuse, and that its fines and sentences are getting
bigger.  The Financial Conduct Authority, which will take over the
FSA’s enforcement role in 2013 as part of a government
restructuring of U.K. financial regulation, will continue the
FSA’s strategy of credible deterrence, Symington said. The
regulator has stepped up its efforts to combat the crime through
criminal prosecutions of  insider trading , fines and other civil
penalties, and seeking court injunctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  