-- 
Geithner Backs French-German Plan for Tighter EU

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-12-06T23:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/french-german-plan-gets-geithner-backing.html
A German-French push for closer
economic ties in Europe won the backing of U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who urged governments to work
with central banks to erect a “stronger firewall” to end the
debt crisis.  Geithner, speaking in Berlin yesterday after talks with
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , praised the
commitment to fiscal programs put in place by new governments in
Spain, Italy and  Greece , and said he was “very encouraged” by
recent efforts to buttress the euro area. He welcomed “progress
toward a fiscal compact for the euro zone,” echoing language
used last week by European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi .  Geithner’s comments backing German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  were more upbeat than his
recent remarks urging Europe to move faster. In a September trip
to  Europe , Geithner asked leaders to set aside their differences
to excise “catastrophic risks” from markets, prompting
European criticism of U.S. debt levels.  “This of course will take time” and “a very substantial
commitment and a sustained commitment of political will,” he
told reporters. Financial crises are resolved when governments
and central banks create “conditions that make it compelling
for investors to take the risk involved in lending to
governments and to banks.”  U.S. stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
to a three-week high, and the euro erased losses amid optimism
European leaders are planning larger efforts to fight the debt
crisis.  Stocks, Euro  The  S&P 500  climbed 0.1 percent to close at 1,258.47 after
drifting between gains and losses for most of the day. French,
Spanish and Austrian bonds fell after  Standard & Poor’s  said it
may cut credit ratings on 15 euro nations and the European
bailout fund. The euro was little changed at $1.3402 after
slumping as much as 0.5 percent.  With an EU crisis summit scheduled for Dec. 8-9, Geithner
said policy makers should work with the central bank to calm
financial markets, without mentioning the ECB by name.  Geithner, who is due to holds talks with Sarkozy in Paris
today after meeting in Frankfurt yesterday with Draghi and
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, declined to comment on
speculation that the ECB could step up bond purchases. Draghi
said last week that “other elements might follow” if European
leaders agree on a “new fiscal compact.”  “I’m here in  Germany , of course, to emphasize how
important it is to the  United States  and to the world economy as
a whole that Germany and  France  succeed alongside the other
nations of Europe in building a stronger Europe,” Geithner
said.  S&P Warning  Schaeuble said earlier yesterday that the Standard & Poor’s
warning for 15 euro-area governments, including AAA rated
Germany and France, will help force leaders ratchet up efforts
to resolve the two-year-old crisis this week.  A day after Merkel and Sarkozy strengthened their push for
new rules to tighten euro-area economic cooperation, Schaeuble
called S&P’s warning the “best encouragement” to drive toward
a solution at this week’s summit in Brussels.  Geithner said that the  International Monetary Fund  can play
a helpful role in the crisis and that the U.S. will support its
“constructive” efforts. U.S. officials have said that they
don’t support new taxpayer money being given to the IMF for the
crisis.  While Geithner said that “the eyes of the world are very
much on Europe,” he said the U.S. continues to faces “very
challenging” economic times.  Laying Foundation  “We have a lot of work ahead of us in laying a foundation
for stronger financial fiscal reforms, in creating conditions
for stronger growth in the future, in repairing and reforming
our financial system,” he said.  Merkel and Sarkozy are leading the charge toward the latest
crisis fix after agreeing to a joint position on automatic
penalties for deficit violators and anchoring debt limits into
euro states’ constitutions. Investors are looking toward such an
agreement among euro countries to pave the way for intensified
action from the ECB.  Geithner said he wouldn’t comment on what the ECB “should
do or will do or can do.” The ECB has been playing a “central
role in this crisis,” he said. “Obviously it’s going to
continue to do that, and of course ultimately these things only
get solved by governments and central banks doing what’s
necessary. But their roles are different.”  The Treasury secretary will hold talks with Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  tomorrow in Milan. Geithner will return to
 Washington  before the European summit.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  