-- 
French, Spanish Bonds Fall as S&P Puts 15 Nations on Review for Downgrade

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-12-06T16:58:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/french-german-bonds-fall-as-s-p-puts-15-nations-on-review-for-downgrade.html
French  government  bonds dropped,
leading declines among euro-area  government securities , after
 Standard & Poor’s  said it may lower credit ratings across the
region.  Spanish and Austrian bonds slid after S&P said 15 euro
nations may have their rankings lowered as “continuing
disagreements” among policy makers on how to tackle the debt
crisis risks damaging their financial stability. France’s two-
year note yield rose from a one-month low after German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the downgrade warning will help
force European leaders to ratchet up efforts to resolve the two-
year old crisis at a Dec. 8-9 summit.  “The digestion of the ratings news has raised the stakes
for the summit,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist
at Commerzbank AG in London. “The debt crisis and the outcome
of the meeting of politicians on Friday is the focus for the
markets. There was a rally last week on expectations of a
positive outcome from this meeting and we see risk for a setback
there.”  French 10-year yields advanced 11 basis points to 3.24
percent at 4:49 p.m. London time. The 3.25 percent security due
October 2021 fell 0.88, or 8.8 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,338)
face amount, to 100.095. Two-year yields climbed four basis
points to 1.13 percent.  Two-year French notes and 10-year bonds rose the most in at
least five years last week amid optimism that  Europe  is ready to
act to stem the crisis.  ‘Dramatic Move’  Ratings may be cut by one level for Austria, Belgium,
Finland,  Germany , the Netherlands and Luxembourg, S&P said
yesterday. The company said it may lower the ratings of Estonia,
France, Ireland, Italy, Malta, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and
Spain by up to two notches.  “It’s a dramatic move,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed-market debt strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“It makes it very difficult for a recovery of investor
sentiment and it piles further pressure on legislators, which
may be a good thing in the end. In order to reverse this, we
need an incredibly positive outcome from the summit.”  Austria ’s 10-year yields climbed six basis points to 3.22
percent, while its two-year note yields advanced five basis
points to 1.23 percent.  Spanish  two-year rates  increased 10 basis points to 4.01
percent, while 10-year yields gained nine basis points to 5.21
percent. Italy’s two-year yields were three basis points higher
at 5.59 percent after rising 19 basis points to 5.75 percent.  No Trust  “The truth is that markets in the whole world right now
don’t trust the euro area at all,” Schaeuble said today in
Vienna. S&P’s statement will prompt European leaders “to do
what we’ve promised, namely to take the necessary decisions
step-by-step and to win back the confidence of global
investors.”  Government bonds from Italy and  Spain  rallied yesterday as
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy pushed for a rewrite of the European Union’s governing
treaties to tighten economic cooperation as a first step toward
ending the debt crisis.  With the fate of the currency shared by the 17 euro states
at risk, Merkel and Sarkozy are stressing their common platform
before this week’s summit that aims to end the crisis that’s now
in its third year.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  is due to arrive
in  Frankfurt  today to meet political leaders and the  European
Central Bank , which holds a policy meeting on Dec. 8.  ECB Rates  The ECB will lower its benchmark rate by a quarter point to
1 percent, according to 53 of 58 economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey . Two said the central bank will cut rates to 0.75
percent, and three estimate it will leave them at 1.25 percent.  The central bank unexpectedly lowered  interest rates  on
Nov. 3, saying the 17-nation euro-area economy will probably
suffer a “mild recession.”  German 10-year bund yields were two basis points lower at
2.19 percent after climbing six basis points to 2.27 percent.
The nation’s two-year note yields stayed at 0.34 percent.  Euro-region gross domestic product expanded 0.2 percent in
the third quarter from the second quarter, data showed today,
confirming an initial estimate published on Nov. 15. Exports
increased 1.5 percent from the second quarter, when they gained
1.1 percent, while household spending advanced 0.3 percent.  Bailout Fund  Downgrades of Germany and  France  would affect the rating of
the European Financial Stability Facility, the bailout fund for
struggling euro member countries that has funded rescue packages
for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal partially through bond sales.
If the EFSF has to pay higher interest on its bonds, it may not
be able to provide as much funding for indebted nations.  S&P may lower the credit rating of the bailout fund,  Moritz Kraemer , head of sovereign ratings at the company in  New York ,
said on a conference call today.  Yields on EFSF 3.375 percent bonds due July 2021 were two
basis points higher at 3.65 percent, Bloomberg data showed.  Volatility on French debt was the highest among 24
developed nations tracked by Bloomberg today, according to
measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and
credit-default swaps. The move in 10-year yields was 1.5 times
the 90-day average, the gauge shows.  German bonds have returned 7.2 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. French bonds have gained 3.5
percent, Italian bonds declined 4.9 percent and Spanish bonds
advanced 6.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  