-- 
French PM Intends to Hold Gas Price Rise to Less Than 5 Percent

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-12-06T20:06:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/french-pm-intends-to-hold-gas-price-rise-to-less-than-5-percent.html
The French government will seek to
keep an increase in regulated natural-gas prices for households
below 5 percent, Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said.  “I cannot accept a 10 percent increase of gas price in
January” as demanded by the regulator, Fillon said in a
television interview on  France 2  today. “I’ll say it clearly: I
won’t accept it. The purchase power of our citizens will be
protected. So I can say it will be very much lower than 10
percent, I even want less than half of that,” he said.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, the former French monopoly holder, charges the
state-set rates to households.  The decision to increase rates came after the government
was forced by the country’s highest court to suspend a plan to
hold them steady in the lead up to next year’s presidential
elections. The court questioned the legality of the freeze and
said it would hinder the ability of rivals to GDF Suez to
compete on the French market.  The court ruling last week threw into question the way
regulated prices are set in  France  for GDF Suez, which has 88
percent of the residential market and 69 percent of the business
segment. The government, facing presidential elections next
April and May, is under pressure from consumers not to raise
tariffs.  The case was brought to the court by suppliers competing
with GDF Suez, grouped under an organization called Anode and
including Direct Energie SA and  Poweo. (ALPWO)  They said the regulated
prices under the price cap weren’t high enough to cover costs of
supply and hindered competition.  Separate Legal Case  GDF Suez brought a separate legal case against the
government and has said the freeze would lead to a shortfall of
400 million euros this year, including 290 million euros in the
fourth quarter.  The government froze household gas prices in April for a
year, a decision the country’s energy regulator ruled should be
reversed from Oct. 1 to allow GDF Suez to cover supply costs.  The regulator said the rates should have been raised Oct. 1
by 8.8 percent and 10 percent, depending on the type of
household consumer. Instead the government kept prices unchanged
for households and raised them 4.9 percent for businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  