-- 
Frontline Will Split Company to Withstand Worst Tanker Rates Since 1999

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 
2011-12-06T17:46:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/frontline-plans-to-split-company-to-withstand-rout-in-tankers.html
Frontline Ltd. , the world’s biggest
operator of the largest  oil tankers , plans to split the company
to withstand the worst rates since 1999. The shares jumped as
much as 39 percent in Oslo trading.  Frontline 2012 will take control of the newest vessels as
well as outstanding orders at ship yards, Hamilton, Bermuda-
based Frontline said today. The new company plans to sell $250
million of shares, of which Frontline will take 10 percent.
Hemen Holding Ltd., a company indirectly controlled by Chairman
 John Fredriksen , will underwrite the remainder. Hemen is giving
guarantees of $505.5 million, valid until Dec. 31.  “The risk of the company defaulting is gone,” Bjorn Roed,
an Oslo-based analyst at Terra Markets, said by phone today.
“It makes them very competitive in this low tanker market that
is expected in the coming years.”  Earnings from the largest vessels averaged $21,559 so far
this year, the lowest since 1999, as fleet expansion outpaced
growth in cargo, according to data from Clarkson Research
Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.
Frontline said last month it was seeking talks with lenders as
it risked running out of cash next year.  Frontline gained 26 percent to 25.5 kroner in Oslo,
reducing this year’s drop to 83 percent and giving the company a
market value of 1.99 billion kroner ($344.2 million). The  stock 
plunged 44 percent on Nov. 22 as Frontline said it might breach
loan conditions and was seeking talks with creditors.  Long-Term Charters  Frontline said its long-term charters from Ship Finance
International Ltd. will be cut by $6,500 per vessel and that it
will pay the company $106 million in compensation. The 2012
company’s shares will trade over-the-counter in  Norway , it said.  Ship Finance said in a separate statement that it approved
the deal subject to the agreement of its board and banks. The
deal is favorable to Frontline and “negative” for Ship
Finance, Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic Securities
ASA, said in an e-mailed report.  The plan will cut Frontline’s supertanker break-even level
to $17,600 a day in 2012. It needs $30,200 for the remainder of
this year, it said Nov. 22.  The carrying capacity of the global fleet of supertankers,
known in the industry as very large crude carriers, or VLCCs,
expanded 8 percent to 172.9 million deadweight tons this year,
according to Clarkson. Demand will swell by 5.3 percent.  Tanker Pool  Four owners of VLCCs, including Mitsui O.S.K. Ltd. and the
tanker division of A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, said today they will
form a pool of the vessels by February, combining fleets and
jointly marketing services to improve fleet use and earnings.
The pool will number 50 by the end of 2012, surpassing the
world’s biggest, operated by Tankers International.  In 2009, Hemen Holding bought shares that were issued by
Golden Ocean Group Ltd., Fredriksen’s dry-bulk shipping company.
Fredriksen also sold his convertible bond holdings back to the
company at 35 cents on the dollar.  Frontline, which has $1 billion of bonds and public loans
 maturing  in the next decade, said Nov. 22 it may need more
funding in 2012 and there were “significant uncertainties”
about meeting some loan terms at the end of this quarter.  The company’s $225 million of 4.5 percent convertible bonds
due 2015 traded at 52 cents on the dollar, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the U.S.’s Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  General Maritime Corp., the second-largest U.S.-based owner
of crude carriers, filed for  bankruptcy protection  last month.
Forward freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to bet on
future transport costs, are anticipating unprofitable charter
rates for at least two more years.  Vessel Construction  The plan would cut the amount Frontline needs to spend on
vessel construction to $112.4 million from $437.9 million, the
company said. The plan doesn’t need the approval of
shareholders, Jens Martin Jensen, Singapore-based chief
executive officer of Frontline’s management unit, said by phone
today.  Existing Frontline equity investors will likely favor the
plan, Ole Stenhagen, an Oslo-based analyst at SEB Enskilda, said
by phone.  “It seems like a fair deal and I would guess there will be
little resistance,” Stenhagen said. “I’m not sure there will
be many other buyers at similar levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  