-- 
Gasoline Gains on Speculation EU May Ban Iranian Crude Imports

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-12-06T20:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/gasoline-gains-on-speculation-eu-may-ban-iranian-crude-imports.html
Gasoline rose to a four-week high on
speculation that the European Union may ban imports of Iranian
oil, increasing the cost to produce fuel in  Europe  and the U.S.
East Coast.  Prices gained after EU Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  signaled the bloc may have reached an agreement on
whether to ban imports of crude from  Iran . Refineries on the
U.S. East Coast, where Nymex gasoline futures are delivered,
primarily use oil priced versus London-traded Brent.  “If the EU were to ban those imports, that supply would
have to come from elsewhere and that means more upward pressure
on Brent,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates
LLC in Houston.  Gasoline for January delivery rose 3.17 cents, or 1.2
percent, to settle at $2.6454 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since Nov. 8. Prices
have gained 7.8 percent this year, and peaked at $3.4648 on
April 29.  The contract reflects reformulated gasoline blendstock, or
RBOB, delivered in  New York  Harbor.  The U.S. imported 619,000 barrels a day of gasoline in the
week ended Nov. 25, Energy Department data show. That’s down 35
percent from a week earlier and the lowest level in six weeks.  Oettinger, asked in Doha, Qatar, if there was consensus for
a ban, said, “I think so, yes.”  EU Sanctions  The EU agreed to tighten sanctions on Iran at a Dec. 1
meeting in Brussels while falling short of authorizing an
immediate ban on Iranian crude imports amid reservations from
 Greece . The U.S. approved additional curbs on Iran’s oil
industry on Nov. 21.  “Europe is saying there’s going to be a consensus to ban
Iranian oil, but the question is when,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .  European Union leaders and officials from the  European
Central Bank  are poised to meet Dec. 8 and 9 in Brussels to try
to resolve the region’s debt crisis that has led to bailouts of
Greece, Ireland and Portugal. Greater confidence in the ability
of European leaders to contain the debt crisis could boost the
oil market and prospects for fuel demand.  “Everything is so fixated on the ECB meeting Thursday and
the EU meeting on Friday and everything else is taking a back
seat,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy
Management Institute in New York.  Gasoline Supplies  U.S. gasoline stockpiles probably rose a fourth consecutive
time last week, increasing 875,000 barrels, according to the
median estimate of 12 analysts in a survey by Bloomberg News.
Distillate inventories increased 1.15 million barrels.  The Energy Department is scheduled to report last week’s
inventories at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  U.S. gasoline demand rose 1 percent in the week ended Dec.
2 to a 14-week high as drivers refilled their tanks after the
Thanksgiving holiday weekend, according to MasterCard Inc.’s
SpendingPulse report today.  January-delivery heating oil rose 2.93 cents, or 1 percent,
to settle at $3.0217 a gallon on the exchange. Prices have
gained 19 percent this year and peaked at $3.3197 on April 8.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.1
cent to $3.275 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  