-- 
GE Investors Await Fed Review for Payment

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-12-06T21:52:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/ge-investors-seeking-finance-unit-payment-as-safety-sign-await-fed-review.html
General Electric Co. investors (GE)  eager
to find out when the finance unit will resume sharing some of
its free cash with the parent company, one indicator of renewed
health and safety, will have to wait until the  Federal Reserve 
finishes an inaugural review.  Before the financial crisis of 2008, GE Capital paid about
40 percent of its earnings, or as much as  $8.6 billion  one year,
to the parent company. Allowing the internal payment to resume
would signal confidence from the Fed, which became the unit’s
regulator in July. For now, GE officials say they’re constrained
on how much they can disclose at today’s investor meeting.  “I understand why investors want to see either the white
or the black smoke coming from the Vatican rooftop,”  GE Capital 
Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey Bornstein said in an interview
before the  meeting  in Norwalk,  Connecticut . “I just think,
unfortunately, that’s really not the way it’s going to work.”  GE stock has fallen 37 percent since credit markets froze
following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, raising concerns about risk to the value of GE
Capital’s holdings.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  responded with a
plan to reduce risk by shrinking the portion of GE profit from
GE Capital and reining in certain kinds of lending. He also
focused on expansion in manufacturing businesses, which
investors typically value more highly than finance.  “To return to better balance it can’t just be about
shrinking Capital, it has to be about industrial kicking into
gear ultimately,” said Jeffrey Sprague, co-founder of Vertical
Research Partners in  Stamford , Connecticut.  Dividend Estimates  To preserve cash, GE Capital lowered the internal dividend
in late 2008, then suspended it in 2009. Keith Sherin, the
parent company’s chief financial officer, said in October the
company wants to restart the payment in 2012, a move that would
require Fed approval.  The odds of meeting that goal are promising, analysts
including Steven Winoker of Sanford C. Bernstein and Co. and
Deane Dray of  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said in notes to investors.  Winoker said the finance unit may send $3.9 billion to the
parent company in 2012 and less than $7 billion in 2013. Partly
because of that, he raised the target price for GE shares to $21
from $19 and boosted its rating to “outperform” from “market
perform.”  The Fed may complete its review in the first six months of
next year, Winoker said. GE Capital is positioned to meet
 capital requirements  the Fed set for banks even if it resumes a
40 percent internal dividend next year, Dray said.  Stress Tests  How much company officials can disclose about the
regulatory process is limited by law. GE Capital has been
preparing for more than a year for the Fed’s arrival, dedicating
hundreds of people to work with the agency, Bornstein said.  Regulators are “doing all that due diligence you would
expect that they would be doing: what the businesses are, what
the products are, what our loss performance has been,”
Bornstein said. “They’ve obviously started looking at our
stress test routines, and how we think about capital and our
capital planning and business planning.” A Fed spokesman
declined to comment.  While the agency’s review continues, GE executives will
probably focus at today’s meeting on progress in reducing
overall lending, growth plans in areas such as loans to midsize
companies, the wind-down or sale of some real-estate assets and
repayment or refinancing of  $81 billion  in debt coming due in
2012.  Red vs. Green  The company plans to shrink the percentage of total profit
from finance to about 30 percent, from as high as half before
the financial crisis, in addition to curbing lending.  At the end of 2008, GE Capital had about $550 billion in
ending net investment, a measure of a finance company’s assets.
About 20 percent of those were labeled “red,” indicating GE
Capital planned to sell or wind them down because they were less
profitable after the crisis or in areas where the company lacked
expertise or heft.  Three years later, GE Capital expects to meet its goal of
shrinking to $440 billion in assets ahead of its 2012 schedule,
with red assets making up “at the most, 10 to 15 percent of the
pie,” Bill Cary, chief operating officer for GE Capital, said
in an interview.  GE Capital funds its operations mostly through debt markets
rather than deposits or trading like investment and conventional
banks. In advance of next year’s debt maturities, the parent
company has amassed a cash pile of about $83 billion and  $54
billion  in backup bank lines, eclipsing the $41 billion in
commercial paper. The commercial-paper balance is about 60
percent lower than its 2007 high.  Market Access  By the end of 2012, GE Capital’s cash balance will be
closer to $50 billion, Sherin said in October. GE Capital plans
to issue $25 billion to $30 billion in debt this year, and
executives have hinted at a similar level in 2012.  For bond investors that kind of debt shows vulnerability at
what some refer to as GECC, the acronym for General Electric
Capital Corp.  “As long as GECC has access to the market, they’ll be
fine,” said Bonnie Baha, portfolio manager at DoubleLine
Capital in  Los Angeles . “But there’s no guarantee that access
will always be there. And that’s the biggest concern. It’s not a
concern unique to GECC, it’s a concern to any credit that’s in a
liquidity squeeze.”  ‘Strong Enough’  GE Capital CEO Mike Neal said the unit should fare well if
a squeeze occurs. He has attempted to armor the business against
potential challenges such as the European sovereign-debt crisis.
The company holds about $300 million in Greek and Italian bonds
combined, Sherin said in October.  “What we’ve tried to do is, within reason, make this place
strong enough to withstand anything that’s kind of reasonable
that might come out of this,” he said in an interview. “We do
have a lot of cash. We’ve reduced our reliance on short-term
borrowings by a lot.”  As GE Capital exits red businesses, it’s redoubled its
focus on “green” businesses, those it plans to keep.  The largest of those is lending to midsize businesses with
$10 million to $1 billion in revenue, where executives say they
have a competitive advantage because of know-how that extends
from finance to areas such as consulting contracts, bulk tire
purchases and writing software that shaves time off of
deliveries.  ‘Needed to Win’  For private-equity firm Riverside, based in  Cleveland , GE’s
expertise in evaluating a target company without large
traditional assets such as factories and equipment made the
lender a logical choice in this summer’s acquisition of Sunless
Inc., an Ohio company that makes spray-tanning booths and
airbrush equipment.  “It was a competitive situation for us to buy it, and we
needed to win that competition,” co-CEO Stewart Kohl said. The
purchase was made possible by the willingness of GE Capital
lenders “to jump on a plane on a moment’s notice to visit the
company with us, to roll up their sleeves to do the work, to
come back quickly and say, ‘Here’s what we think we can get
done,’ then to deliver on that and do it all in a time frame
that would let us prevail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  