-- 
Geithner Backs Merkel’s Crisis Plan

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-12-06T20:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/geithner-backs-merkel-sarkozy-crisis-plan-with-stronger-firewall-on-debt.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  backed a German-French push for closer economic
cooperation in Europe, urging policy makers to work with central
banks to erect a “stronger firewall” to end the debt crisis.  Geithner, speaking in Berlin today after talks with German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , praised the commitment to
reform programs put in place by new governments in Spain, Italy
and  Greece , saying that he is “very encouraged” by recent
efforts to buttress the euro area. He welcomed “progress toward
a fiscal compact for the euro zone,” echoing language used last
week by European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi .  “This of course will take time” and “a very substantial
commitment and a sustained commitment of political will,” he
told reporters. “Financial crises are ultimately resolved when
governments and central banks succeed in creating conditions
that make it compelling for investors to take the risk involved
in lending to governments and to banks.”  Geithner’s comments backing for the stance of German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
were more upbeat than his recent remarks urging Europe to move
quickly to tackle the crisis. In a September trip to Europe,
Geithner urged leaders to set aside their differences to excise
“catastrophic risks” from the markets, prompting European
criticism of the U.S.’s debt levels.  With an EU crisis summit scheduled for Dec. 8-9, Geithner
urged policy makers to work with the central bank to resolve the
uncertainty in markets, without mentioning the ECB by name.  Sarkozy Talks  Geithner, who is due to holds talks with Sarkozy in Paris
tomorrow after meeting in  Frankfurt  today with Draghi and
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, declined to comment on
speculation that the ECB could step up bond purchases. Draghi
said last week that “other elements might follow” if European
leaders agree on a “new fiscal compact.”  “I’m here in  Germany , of course, to emphasize how
important it is to the  United States  and to the world economy as
a whole that Germany and France succeed alongside the other
nations of Europe in building a stronger Europe,” the U.S.
Treasury Secretary said.  The three key elements of success for the euro zone are
economic reforms in member states to lay the foundation for
future economic growth, reforms to create the architecture of
fiscal union to make monetary union more viable for the long
run, and financial support by European governments and central
banks in the form of a “stronger firewall.”  S&P ‘Encouragement’  Schaeuble said earlier today that a  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade warning for 15 euro-area governments including AAA
rated Germany and  France  will help force European leaders to
ratchet up efforts to resolve the two-year-old crisis this week.  A day after Merkel and Sarkozy strengthened their push for
new rules to tighten euro-area economic cooperation, Schaeuble
called S&P’s warning the “best encouragement” to drive toward
a solution at this week’s summit in Brussels.  Geithner said that the  International Monetary Fund  can play
a helpful role in the European debt crisis and that the U.S.
will support the fund’s “constructive” efforts. U.S. officials
have said that they don’t support new taxpayer money being given
to the IMF for the crisis.  “The reports I’ve read in the press about what the Fed can
do are not accurate,” Geithner said.  Eyes of the World  While Geithner said that “the eyes of the world are very
much on  Europe ” during the debt crisis, he said the U.S. too
continues to faces “very challenging” economic times.  “We have a lot of work ahead of us in laying a foundation
for stronger financial fiscal reforms, in creating conditions
for stronger growth in the future, in repairing and reforming
our financial system,” he said.  Merkel and Sarkozy are leading the charge toward the latest
crisis fix after agreeing to a joint position on automatic
penalties for deficit violators and anchoring debt limits into
euro states’ constitutions. Investors are looking toward such an
agreement among euro countries to pave the way for intensified
action from the ECB.  Geithner said he wouldn’t comment on what the ECB ‘should
do or will do or can do.” The ECB has been playing a “central
role in this crisis,” he said. “Obviously it’s going to
continue to do that, and of course ultimately these things only
get solved by governments and central banks doing what’s
necessary. But their roles are different.”  The Treasury secretary will hold talks with Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  on Dec. 8 in Milan. Geithner will return to
 Washington  before the European summit.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  