-- 
German Factory Orders Surge on Export Demand

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-12-06T12:22:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/german-factory-orders-surged-in-october.html
German  factory orders  surged the most
in 19 months in October after three straight declines, led by a
rebound in demand from abroad.  Orders , adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, jumped
5.2 percent from September, when they dropped 4.6 percent, the
 Economy Ministry  in Berlin said in a statement today. Economists
forecast a gain of 1 percent, according to the median of 34
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . In the year,  orders  rose
5.4 percent when adjusted for work days.  Germany faces a possible recession as the sovereign debt
crisis and a global slowdown sap demand for exports, while
 Standard & Poor’s  warned yesterday that the nation faces the
risk of a credit rating downgrade. Business confidence still
rose for the first time in five months in November and
unemployment declined more than forecast, suggesting domestic
demand may help  Europe ’s largest economy weather the downturn.  “Our outlook for the economy is clouded and we would stick
to that, but it’s good to see that the fourth quarter may not be
quite as weak as many had expected,” said Christian Lips, an
economist at NordLB in Hanover,  Germany . “Germany is at the
edge of a recession, but maybe we’ll just manage to get around
it.”  The euro was little changed after the report and traded at
$1.3414 at 1:14 p.m. in Frankfurt, up 0.1 percent on the day.  With turmoil from Europe overshadowing the global economy,
 Australia  executed its first back-to-back interest-rate cut
since 2009 today. The  Asian Development Bank  cited escalating
risks to its growth outlook, saying there’s a possibility of
recession in the U.S. and Europe.  GDP Reports  In  Brazil , the economy expanded 2.1 percent in the third
quarter from a year ago, the national statistics agency said
today in  Rio de Janeiro . Economists forecast growth of 2.4
percent, according to a Bloomberg survey.  By contrast, growth in South Korea,  Asia ’s fourth-largest
economy, accelerated to 3.5 percent in the third quarter from
3.4 percent. The euro region economy expanded 0.2 percent in the
third quarter from the previous three months and 1.4 percent
from a year earlier, data confirmed today.  In Germany, domestic factory orders rose 1.4 percent in
October, the Economy Ministry said. Foreign orders soared 8.3
percent, reversing September’s 5.8 percent drop, led by an 8.9
percent advance in sales to other euro-area countries. Orders
for investment goods jumped 7.8 percent while consumer goods
orders increased 1.3 percent.  ‘Good Start’  German chemicals maker  BASF SE (BAS)  on Nov. 29 raised its sales
target for the end of this decade on emerging-market growth.
Roller-bearing maker Schaeffler AG on Nov. 22 said global orders
are “solid” even amid signs of slowdown in Europe.  “Factory orders made a good start to the final quarter of
the year,” the Economy Ministry said in a statement. “Their
level appreciably exceeded that of the third quarter. But the
trend in demand remains restrained.”  The Bundesbank on Nov. 21 cut its 2012 growth forecast to
between 0.5 percent and 1 percent from a June prediction of 1.8
percent, and said a “pronounced” period of economic weakness
can’t be ruled out if the debt crisis worsens.  ThyssenKrupp AG, Germany’s largest steelmaker, on Dec. 2
posted a fiscal full-year loss and said it’s “impossible at
present to reliably predict” how the new fiscal year will
unfold due in part to uncertainty over the impact of the crisis.  The  European Central Bank  unexpectedly pared  interest rates 
on Nov. 3, saying a “mild recession” is on the cards in the
17-nation euro economy. Policy makers gathering in  Frankfurt  on
Dec. 8 will probably cut borrowing costs by a further 25 basis
points, taking the  key rate  to 1 percent, according to all but
five of 58 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  