-- 
Germany Says Private-Sector Role in Stemming Crisis Ensured by IMF Rules

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-12-06T23:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/germany-says-private-sector-role-in-stemming-crisis-ensured-by-imf-rules.html
Germany rejected comments by French
Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  that  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
agreed to drop demands on investors to accept losses in any
sovereign default, saying that International Monetary Fund rules
will ensure private-sector involvement.  “We only made it clear that the kind of PSI you had with
Greece is an extreme case that won’t be repeated,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said by text message late
yesterday. So-called collective action clauses “will stay, so
the investors will only encounter risks in  Europe  that they
already know from everywhere else in the world.”  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said after
talks in Paris on Dec. 5 that they had agreed on enrolling
private investors in the event of any euro-area government
restructuring, with legal aspects being guided by IMF practice.
 Greece , where bondholders were pressed to accept writedowns of
50 percent, was a “unique case” not to be repeated, they said.  “There was a decision taken by the president and the
chancellor yesterday that was absolutely fundamental and that
wasn’t sufficiently explained,” Fillon said yesterday on  France 
2 television. It “is that Germany has agreed to let go of the
participation of the private sector, of private investors in
case of the restructuring of sovereign debt.”  Permanent Rescue Fund  European disagreement over Merkel’s calls for private
bondholders to be forced to accept losses in Europe’s permanent
rescue fund threatened to derail efforts to speed its setup,
three people involved in the negotiations said last month.
Merkel and Sarkozy said in Paris that they had agreed to press
fellow leaders at a crisis-fighting summit beginning tomorrow to
back plans to bring in the 500 billion euro ($670 billion)
European Stability Facility in 2012, one year earlier than
envisaged.  “We want to speed the ESM so that we can have it by the
end of 2012,” Merkel said. Greece “is an exception,” and
“therefore we will make it clear in the ESM that we will follow
IMF practice when there is an insolvency problem.”  Germany  and the Netherlands had resisted pleas by France,
 Spain ,  Portugal  and Ireland for the bondholder-loss provisions
to be stripped from the ESM treaty, the people said last month.
Operating the ESM in combination with the 440 billion-euro
temporary fund next year would potentially boost Europe’s anti-
crisis resources to 940 billion euros.  “Private sector involvement” was foreseen in a first
version of the ESM treaty, signed July 11. Ten days later, euro
government leaders negotiated writedowns on Greek debt,
declaring that treatment as “exceptional and unique.” The
opponents of bondholder-loss provisions seized on that
declaration to press for amendments to the ESM treaty.  Fillon said the agreement by Merkel and Sarkozy added “an
element of confidence that is absolutely important.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  