-- 
German Stocks Fall After S&P Puts Euro-Area Nations on Review; RWE Slumps

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-12-06T16:49:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/german-stocks-fall-after-s-p-puts-euro-area-nations-on-review-rwe-slumps.html
German stocks  dropped, snapping a
two-day advance for the DAX Index, after  Standard & Poor’s  put
Germany and 14 other euro-area nations on watch for potential
credit-rating downgrades.  RWE AG  slumped 7.2 percent after Germany’s second-largest
utility raised 2.1 billion euros ($2.8 billion) in a share sale
to reduce debt.  Metro AG (MEO)  sank the most on record as the retailer
cut its profit forecast.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
the nation’s biggest lenders, lost more than 1.5 percent.  The benchmark DAX slipped 77.27, or 1.3 percent, to
6,028.82 at the close of trading in Frankfurt. The gauge has
retreated 13 percent this year as the sovereign-debt crisis
spread through  Europe  and investors speculated economic growth
will stall in the region next year.  “This raises the political pressure in  Germany  on Angela
Merkel with respect to the costs of closer integration with
economically weaker European countries as their borrowing costs
rise,” said  Michael Hewson , a markets analyst at CMC Markets in
London. “This, it would seem, is the price of admission towards
closer integration.”  Germany, France and four other euro-area nations may lose
their AAA credit ratings, depending on the result of the summit
of European Union leaders on Dec. 9, S&P said late yesterday.
The ratings company put a total of 15 euro nations on review for
possible downgrade.  ‘Systemic Stress’  “Systemic stress in the euro zone has risen in recent
weeks and reached such a level that a review of all euro-zone
sovereign ratings is warranted,” S&P said in a statement.  Downgrades of Germany and France would affect the rating of
the European Financial Stability Facility, the bailout fund for
struggling euro-member countries that has funded rescue packages
for Greece, Ireland and Portugal partially through bond sales.
If the EFSF has to pay higher interest on its bonds, it may not
be able to provide as much funding for the most indebted
nations.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy responded in a joint statement late yesterday
that they “took note” of the move by S&P, while both countries
“affirm their conviction” that proposals for fiscal union will
“strengthen coordination of budget and economic policy and
promote stability, competitiveness and growth.”  RWE slid 7.2 percent to 28.15 euros, the largest decline in
a month, after the Essen, Germany-based company said it sold
80.4 million shares at 26 euros apiece.  Metro plunged 14 percent to 31.86 euros, the biggest drop
since the shares started trading in 1996, as Germany’s largest
retailer forecast that sales and earnings will fall this year
following a weak start to the Christmas season.  Commerzbank lost 2.9 percent to 1.40 euros and  Deutsche
Bank  retreated 1.9 percent to 29.66 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  