-- 
Gilead Increased Bid 37% as Rivals Demurred on Acquisition of Pharmasset

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-12-06T21:22:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/gilead-increased-bid-37-as-rivals-demurred-on-acquisition-of-pharmasset.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  increased an
offer to buy experimental hepatitis C drugmaker  Pharmasset Inc (VRUS) 
several times before agreeing to pay $10.8 billion, as other
potential buyers bowed out before making a bid, filings show.  Gilead, the world’s largest maker of HIV medicines, first
offered to purchase Princeton, New Jersey-based Pharmasset for
$100 a share on Sept. 2, a 56 percent premium, Pharmasset
disclosed today in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. That offer was deemed insufficient by Pharmasset, a
company with 82 employees, no marketed products and a net loss
of $91.2 million for the fiscal year ended Sept. 30.  “The board determined that Gilead could be in a position
to improve its proposal if it were to have access to certain
confidential company data and development plans,” Pharmasset
said in the filing.  The data, released at the  American Association  for the
Study of Liver Diseases in November, showed Pharmasset’s drug
PSI-7977 cured all patients in a study. Based on that
information,  Foster City , California-based Gilead raised its
offer on Oct. 7 to $125 a share. It is one of at least three
hepatitis C drugs in development by Pharmasset, according to
Bloomberg data.  At that point, Pharmasset decided to seek other bidders,
contacting four companies including one that had made a rejected
acquisition offer in September 2010, according to filing. The
other unnamed potential bidders had dropped out of the process
by Nov. 17, when Gilead increased its offer to $135 a share.  Days later, Gilead raised its bid to $137 a share, and
Pharmasset agreed. The deal was officially announced on Nov. 21.  The purchase price was an 89 percent premium from
Pharmasset’s closing price on Nov. 18. Gilead said the
acquisition, its largest, will reduce the company’s earnings
through 2014 and then add to profit.  Gilead fell less than 1 percent to $39.80 at the close in
 New York . The shares have gained 9.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  