-- 
Green Bay Packers’ Fans Buy $400,000 in Stock in First 11 Minutes of Sale

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-12-07T02:05:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/green-bay-packers-fans-buy-400-000-in-stock-in-first-11-minutes-of-sale.html
Green Bay  Packers fans purchased
$400,000 worth of shares in the first 11 minutes as the National
Football League team’s fifth stock sale began today.  The only publicly owned franchise in U.S. sports, the
Packers want to raise $62.5 million with the sale that started
at 9 a.m. New York time. Shares cost $250 each and are available
via mail or online at  PackersOwner.com .  Matthew Weir, a vice president at  Taconic Investment
Partners LLC  in New York City, bought four shares -- one for
himself and his wife, and three to potentially pass on to
children later in life. A Wisconsin native, Weir said he bought
the stock partially because it was a direct way to support his
favorite team.  “It’s also a big pride thing,” Weir, 30, said today in a
telephone interview. “It’s the ability to say you’re an owner
of an NFL team and a participant in something that’s only
happened a limited amount of times.”  The stock does not pay dividends or appreciate in value,
and shareholders technically could be fined by the league for
violating terms of NFL ownership. Shareholders could be fined up
to $500,000 by league commissioner  Roger Goodell  for conduct
detrimental to the welfare of the league -- including “publicly
criticizing any NFL member club or its management” -- and up to
$5,000 if they bet on the outcome of NFL games, according to the
terms of the stock.  ‘The Fine Print’  “As a businessman, I always make sure to read the fine
print,” Weir said. “I would not be shocked to find that many
people are not aware of that restriction.”  Weir said the stock sale is a reminder of the team’s small-
town roots and what it has to do to stay competitive in the NFL.  “When you understand the economics of sports today, you
look at the big-market teams and then you look at what Green
Bay’s been able to do,” he said. “Here is an opportunity to
add to their success, not only today, but for the future
to ensure that they stay competitive and keep those winning
traditions going.”  The Packers franchise won its fourth  Super Bowl  in
February, a game that was the most-watched television event in
U.S. history. The Packers are 12-0 this season, the only
undefeated team in the league.  “This is a significant and historic time for the
organization,” club President  Mark Murphy  said today in a media
conference call. “In the first 11 minutes, we had 1,600
sales.”  The team did not provide any updates of stock sales later
in the day.  Runs Through February  The sale will run until Feb. 29, subject to extension, and
the team will issue additional shares if the initial 250,000
sell out, Murphy said.  “That would be a good problem to have,” he said.  The Packers are raising money to help pay for a $143
million renovation of  Lambeau Field  that will add two gates, new
scoreboards, a new sound system and about 6,700 seats before the
start of the 2013 season, according to the team.  Stock is available to individuals in the U.S.,  Guam ,  Puerto
Rico  and the  U.S. Virgin Islands . Shares can be purchased as a
gift for others, and can be delivered in time for Christmas if
purchased before Dec. 12, Murphy said.  Shareholders are given a vote for the team’s board of
directors and can attend stockholders meetings every summer in
Green Bay,  Wisconsin , with exclusive access to events such as
rookie practices and stadium tours. They also have a special
store with apparel such as “I Own A Piece of the Pack” T-
shirts.  Bragging Rights  “First and foremost, it’s a way for them to support the
team and it does give them significant bragging rights to say
that they are owners of a Super Bowl-championship team,” Murphy
said.  The Packers had about 112,000 owners of 4.75 million shares
prior to today’s sale. The team has owners in all 50 states,
with Miller Brewing Co. the largest shareholder, Murphy said. He
didn’t say how many shares are held by Miller, a unit of  Molson
Coors Brewing Co. (TAP)   Previous Stock Sale  The team last sold stock in 1997, when it raised roughly
$24 million at $200 a share to update the stadium.  “I think our timing is good and the fact that we have the
ability to sell online through the internet should help us reach
more people,” Murphy said.  The renovation will be funded mostly through the stock sale
and debt, Murphy said. He said Green Bay-based  Associated Banc-
Corp , Wisconsin’s largest independent bank by assets, will
handle the debt financing, which is expected to be under $100
million, he said.  “This is really the first time in the organization’s
history that we’re taking on significant debt,” Murphy said.
“Money that we are able to raise through the stock sale
benefits the team because it allows us to borrow less money and
reduce our debt cost.”  Green Bay has a population of 104,057, according to the
 U.S. Census Bureau , making it the smallest market in the NFL.
The Packers are valued at $1.08 billion, ninth highest in the
league, according to Forbes magazine.  Rodgers’s Season  Quarterback  Aaron Rodgers , who leads the league with a
127.7 passer rating and 71.8 completion percentage, leads all
players in Pro Bowl balloting, the NFL announced last week on
its website. The Packers have the lead vote-getter in 10 of the
19 National Football Conference positions.  Weir met his wife, a fellow Wisconsinite, at a Packers bar
in  New York . He said that he will proudly display his stock
certificate in his apartment.  “It’s definitely going up in a frame, and it will be a
battle with my wife to see how prominent a location it gets in a
 New York City  apartment,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  