-- 
Groupon Accused in Lawsuit of Altering Merchant E-Mails

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-06T22:09:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/groupon-accused-in-lawsuit-of-altering-merchant-contracts-in-sent-e-mails.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the largest Internet
daily deal site, was accused in a lawsuit of altering e-mails of
agreements with merchants after both sides had accepted the
terms.  BidMyCrib.com  sued Groupon today in federal court in
Chicago, seeking to make the case a group lawsuit, or class
action, on behalf of the company’s merchant clients. The suit,
which accuses Groupon of violating the Stored Communications Act
by altering sent e-mails “in electronic storage,” seeks
unspecified damages.  Groupon, based in Chicago, raised $700 million in an
initial public offering last month, selling 35 million shares in
the biggest IPO by a U.S. Internet company since Google Inc.’s
in 2004. Founded in 2008, the company sells daily, discounted
deals for local businesses including restaurants, hotels,
services and retail shops.  Groupon corresponds with its merchant-clients by e-mail and
transmits its merchant agreements in the body of e-mailed
messages, according to the complaint by BidMyCrib, a website
that allows contractors to bid on residential construction
projects. The company later goes into those e-mails and alters
the content, according to the complaint.  Groupon changed at least one section of the merchant
agreement with BidMyCrib by adding a new sentence regarding
voucher expiration dates to the previously agreed-upon language,
according to the complaint.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is BidMyCrib LLC v. Groupon Inc., 11-8647, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois ( Chicago )  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  