-- 
Libya Transitional Government Imposes Lockdown in Tripoli, Demands Weapons

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-12-06T23:07:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/libyans-end-occupation-of-istanbul-consulate-anatolia-reports.html
Tripoli was placed under a security
lockdown as the governing National Transitional Council sought
to impose control over local militias and demanded that
residents give up their weapons by the end of the month.  Side streets were closed and armed security units set up
checkpoints on main roads in the Libyan capital in the most
extensive security operation in the city since Muammar Qaddafi
was toppled and Tripoli fell to revolutionary forces in August.
Prime Minister Abdurrahim el-Keib said in a statement he ordered
armed military units to impose the lockdown.  Citizens have complained that the militias, many from
outside the city, lack discipline and have engaged in skirmishes
with residents and nightly shooting in the streets.  Tripoli residents have until Dec. 31 to hand in firearms,
and non-Tripoli militias must leave the city by Dec. 20, the
National Transitional Council said in a statement yesterday.  “The people demand safety provided by legitimate
government enforcement bodies, and it is our duty to respond,”
Razzak Abuhajar, the head of Tripoli’s city council, said in a
statement. “These plans, coordinated by the government and the
people of Tripoli, reflect a necessary step in the city’s
transitional process.”  Tripoli’s 11 military councils, each responsible for police
and security in its district, set up the checkpoints with
support from the city council, the NTC said.  Total Closure  “Some streets face total closure,” the statement said.
“Others will prevent the movement of any armed vehicles”
except those of the interior and defense ministries.  State-sanctioned demonstrations will be conducted daily in
Tripoli’s central Martyrs’ Square to build support for the
government. On Dec. 20, “if militias have not left the city,
the public of Tripoli and Libyan government will close the whole
city to traffic,” the statement said.  At Tripoli’s city center Safari Hotel, home to western
journalists, an armed militia checkpoint with traffic cones
stopped and searched cars. Side streets were blocked, some with
builder’s rubble, others with tree trunks, and traffic was
lighter than normal.  Revolutionary units were welcomed into the capital on Aug.
21, battling with forces loyal to Qaddafi. In recent weeks,
there have been complaints that the units, from Misrata, 150
miles east of the city, and Zintan, 90 miles southwest, have
become disorderly.  Remaining in Control  Zintan militia remain in control of Tripoli’s international
airport amid reports they had detained Tripoli Security Council
chief Abdul Hakim Bilhaj for two hours when he arrived to take
an international flight.  Units from Misrata remain in the outlying eastern suburbs,
where they share duties controlling checkpoints with local
militias, Taha Zarti, an official with the militia from the
eastern district of Suq al-Juma, said in an interview.  Libyan officials, still grappling with the aftermath of the
nation’s seven-month war, want to establish a security authority
after the swearing-in of the last six of the government’s 24-
member cabinet on Dec. 11,  In the past month, rival militia units have clashed in
eastern Tripoli, on the border with  Tunisia  and in the town of
Beni Walid, 95 miles south of Tripoli, news organizations have
reported.  While oil exports have increased, with the National Oil
Corp. declaring last week that output had reached 840,000
barrels per day, more than half the pre-war output, improved
security could encourage foreign companies to set up business in
 Libya .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  