-- 
Icahn Asks Commercial Metals Investors to Back Bid After Board’s Rejection

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-12-06T15:25:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/icahn-asks-commercial-metals-investors-to-back-bid-after-board-s-rejection.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  plans
to start a tender offer for all of  Commercial Metals Co. (CMC) ’s
outstanding shares for $15 apiece after the board rejected his
all-cash offer for the company.  The offer requires support of at least 40.1 percent of
shareholders, which would give Icahn a majority when combined
with his current stake of about 10 percent, New York-based  Icahn
Enterprises LP (IEP)  said in a statement today.  “After attempting to work with the Board, we are launching
this tender offer so that shareholders can decide for themselves
what they wish to do with their company,” Icahn said in the
statement.  Icahn said he would sell “non-core” assets, appoint new
management and combine Commercial Metals with his existing
metals-recycling assets. Commercial Metals has said it plans to
close or sell a mill in  Croatia , shut rebar-fabrication plants
and reduce its global workforce.  Icahn asked the board to lift a poison-pill restriction
that limits him to holding 10 percent of the shares and said he
would go to court if it failed to do so.  Icahn Enterprises offered to buy the rest of the shares
without any financing or due diligence conditions in a Nov. 28
letter to Commercial Metals directors.  The takeover proposal is 31 percent more than the stock’s
closing price on Nov. 25, the last trading day before the bid
was announced. Commercial Metals, which collects scrap that it
melts to make products such as steel rebar used in construction,
said yesterday that Icahn’s $1.73 billion bid was
“opportunistic.”  Icahn’s Metals Business  Offering to buy a company to put it in play is a common
maneuver for 75-year-old Icahn, who made millions in the 1980s
pressuring companies from USX Corp. to Texaco Inc. to split up
or increase dividends and buybacks. Clorox Co., software
producer Mentor Graphics Corp. and pharmaceutical maker Mylan
Inc. are among companies that have had offers from Icahn
subsequently withdrawn.  Commercial Metals, which also distributes steel, has
operations in the U.S., Poland and Croatia. The company rose 1.4
percent to $14.29 at 10:24 a.m. in  New York . The shares have
risen 25 percent since Icahn’s offer.  Icahn started his metals business through the acquisition
of Philip Services Corp., a bankrupt Canadian scrap metals and
industrial services company, in 2004.  Icahn disclosed in July that he bought almost 10 percent of
Commercial Metals, after which the Irving, Texas-based company
adopted a shareholder rights plan to cap ownership at 10 percent
and prevent hostile takeover attempts.  The value of the transaction is calculated based on the
115.5 million shares that are outstanding according to Bloomberg
data.  Commercial Metals is being advised by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and law firm Sidley Austin LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  