-- 
IMF May Cut Serbia’s Growth Outlook on Euro-Area Woes, Election

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-12-06T15:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/imf-may-cut-serbia-s-growth-outlook-on-euro-area-woes-election.html
Serbia ’s reliance on exports to the
European Union and adjacent markets may reduce its prospects for
growth in 2012, an International Monetary Fund official said.  With almost 85 percent of Serbian exports sent to EU states
or aspiring members, a protracted crisis in the euro area could
lead to another revision of Serbia’s growth outlook for next
year, country representative Bogdan Lissovolik wrote in an
article published today by the Belgrade-based  Economics
Institute  Institute. The IMF last month cut its forecast for
2012 growth in the Balkan state to 1.5 percent from 3 percent.  “Serbia’s economic growth already slowed in the second
quarter to a great extent due to smaller activity in the  euro
zone ,” Lissovolik said in the text. “If financial tensions in
the euro zone continue, the risk of downward revision of
Serbia’s economic growth will probably materialize.”  Serbia, which has an ongoing, $1.48 billion precautionary
arrangement with the IMF, may exceed the self-imposed limit for
public debt of 45 percent of gross domestic product and its new
law on public-private partnerships may create even more debt,
Lissovolik said in an appearance today at the presentation of
the Institute’s monthly macroeconomic report.  The IMF “would like that the  Finance Ministry  has veto
power to block fiscally irresponsible public-private
partnerships,” he said.  The country is “approaching elections when spending is
more politically driven than economy-driven,” and the
authorities are likely to put off “the most important
structural reforms the country needs.” Serbia may hold national
elections next year in the second quarter.  Serbia has agreed with the IMF to keep its budget gap at
4.25 percent of GDP next year, down from this year’s 4.5 percent
and still above an initially planned 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  