-- 
Insider-Trading Ban for U.S. Lawmakers Gains Support as Public Trust Wanes

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-12-07T16:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/insider-trading-rule-needed-to-restore-trust-u-s-lawmakers-say.html
Bipartisan support is growing in the
 U.S. Congress  for new rules banning  insider trading  by lawmakers
amid concerns about waning trust among the public.  The number of co-sponsors for a measure explicitly banning
such trading has grown from nine last month to 171 “and
counting,” Representative Louise Slaughter, a New York
Democrat, told the House Financial Services Committee yesterday.
She first introduced similar legislation five years ago and
never garnered more than 14 co-sponsors.  The issue took on new urgency after the CBS News program
“60 Minutes” reported last month that members of Congress
bought stock in companies during debates on legislation that
might affect the businesses. None of the questioned investments
was illegal, the report said.  “This is about restoring faith,” said Representative Tim Walz, a Minnesota Democrat, who is sponsoring the legislation
Slaughter supports. “If you think 9 percent approval rating is
bad, don’t do anything, drag it out and watch what happens,” he
said, referring to polling on Americans’ approval of Congress.  There is a public perception that lawmakers are benefiting
from nonpublic information whether they are or not, he said.  The chairman of the House Financial Services Committee,
Representative  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican, said his
panel would vote on legislation next week. A Senate committee
also aims to vote on a similar bill before the end of the year.  ‘Absolutely Essential’  “It is absolutely essential that we do restore the
public’s trust,” Bachus said. “If this is the answer, so be
it.”  Bachus was among the lawmakers mentioned in the “60
Minutes” report. The program said that during the 2008
financial crisis, Bachus -- then the top member in the minority
on the Financial Services Committee -- bet stock prices would
fall while being privately briefed that a global financial
meltdown might be imminent.  In a statement to “60 Minutes,” Bachus’s office said he
never trades on nonpublic information.  The CBS report sparked new interest by lawmakers in the
legislation that Slaughter initially introduced in 2006. The
measure would label as  securities fraud  any trading on
legislative information by lawmakers or their staff members. The
bill would require any trade of more than $1,000 to be reported
within 90 days.  Register Like Lobbyists  The bill would require regulators to draft rules barring
individuals and so-called political intelligence firms, which
use their contacts in Washington to provide financial
institutions with market-related information, from selling
nonpublic information obtained from federal employees. It also
would require firms or individuals involved in political
intelligence to register in the same way as federal lobbyists.  “We’re living in a time when Americans do not trust
Congress,” said Representative Walter Jones of  North Carolina ,
a Republican co-sponsor of the bill. “It is a proper first step
in maintaining the integrity of Congress.”  In the Senate, Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a New York
Democrat, has introduced bipartisan legislation that would
redefine insider trading to include knowledge gained from
congressional work and add new reporting requirements for
transactions. Senator  Scott Brown , a Massachusetts Republican,
also has introduced a measure.  Quick Action Sought  The chairman of the Senate  Homeland Security  and
Governmental Affairs Committee, Connecticut independent  Joseph Lieberman , has said he wants his panel to approve legislation by
the end of the year.  Representative  Sean Duffy , a freshman Republican from
 Wisconsin , said the measure should go a step further. He
introduced legislation that would require members of Congress to
establish a blind trust for all of their stock holdings. If they
don’t, lawmakers would have to disclose their stock trades
within three days.  “There is a cloud over members of Congress and the trades
they make,” he said. “The American people want sunshine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in  Washington  at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  