-- 
Investor Oracle Urges Heart-Pump Maker Thoratec to Seek Bid From Buyers

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-12-06T01:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/investor-oracle-urges-heart-pump-maker-thoratec-to-seek-bid-from-buyers.html
Thoratec Corp. (THOR) , the maker of an
implantable heart pump, should seek buyers in an auction, Oracle
Investment Management Inc., the company’s fifth-largest
shareholder, said in a letter to the board.  Thoratec could increase market share for its heart devices
if it were acquired by a larger medical technology company,
according to the letter from Larry Feinberg, managing member of
Greenwich, Connecticut-based Oracle. The letter called recent
growth for the Thoratec’s heart pumps “unsatisfactory” and
said the Pleasanton, California-based company hasn’t
meaningfully expanded its market share in  Europe .  “Thoratec is unable to maximize shareholder value as an
independent company,” Feinberg said in the letter. “We believe
that an auction process would be the most effective means to
find a suitable acquirer and urge the board of directors to take
action now to retain an independent investment bank to maximize
 shareholder value .”  Thoratec was a pioneer in the development of so-called
left-ventricular assist devices. It sells the HeartMate pump,
designed to help assist in taking over the workload for a
failing heart. The market for such devices may grow to 10,000
implants in 2015 from 4,000 in 2010, the Oracle letter said. In
the third quarter of 2011, Thoratec revenue increased 13 percent
to $102.6 million from the period a year earlier.  Thoratec didn’t immediately return calls for comment on
Oracle’s letter. Oracle also didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  Oracle owned 2.82 million shares of Thoratec, or 4.7
percent of the company, as of Sept. 30, according to Bloomberg
data.  Thoratec gained 4.2 percent to $32.30 at 6:13 p.m. New York
time in extended trading after rising 1.9 percent to $31.01 at
the close. The company’s shares have increased 9.5 percent this
year.  Thoratec ended a proposed merger with its chief rival,
Framingham, Massachusetts-based  HeartWare International Inc. (HTWR) , in
July 2009 after U.S. regulators said they would challenge the
deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  