-- 
Issa Plans Probe Into Report U.S. Helps Drug Cartel Laundering

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-12-06T00:38:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/issa-plans-probe-into-report-u-s-helps-drug-cartel-laundering.html
A House Republican said he will
investigate whether U.S. government agents are helping Mexican
drug cartels launder money to learn about their financial
operations.  The probe was prompted by a New York Times report yesterday
that Drug Enforcement Administration undercover agents are
carrying out the operations. Representative  Darrell Issa  of
 California , chairman of the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, sent a letter today to Attorney General Eric Holder announcing the probe. Holder is due to testify before the
House Judiciary Committee on Dec. 8 about Justice Department
activities.  Holder last month told the Senate Judiciary Committee that
a law-enforcement program that allowed illegal gun purchases in
the U.S. in an attempt to link the weapons to drug cartels was
“flawed.”  Two of about 2,000 guns that U.S. agents allowed to be
carried away as part of the operation, named Fast and Furious,
were found at the scene of the December 2010 murder of U.S.
Border Patrol agent Brian Terry in  Arizona , according to a
congressional report released in June.  The drug money laundering allegations “raise further
unsettling questions about a  Department of Justice  component
engaging in a high-risk strategy with scant evidence of
success,” Issa said.  The U.S. has laundered money in Mexico for the last few
years, according to the New York Times. Agents have deposited
money from drug deals in accounts for traffickers or in shell
accounts agents set up, the paper said.  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return phone messages seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  