-- 
J&J’s Birth-Control Patch Needs More Research on Blood-Clot Risk

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/j-j-s-birth-control-patch-needs-more-study-on-blood-clot-risk-fda-says.html
More research is needed to determine
whether  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Ortho Evra birth-control patch is
linked to an increased risk of blood clots, U.S. regulators
said.  The  Food and Drug Administration  asked outside advisers to
assess at a Dec. 9 meeting the risks and benefits of the patch
and review studies showing an association between the
contraceptive and a higher risk of blood clots, according to an
agency staff report released yesterday. The agency isn’t
required to follow the advisers’ recommendations.  In October, the FDA  found  the product from  New Brunswick ,
New Jersey-based J&J was associated with “a significantly high
risk” of blood clots compared with standard low-dose birth
control pills.  “Based on the current studies, it is unclear whether the
increased risk seen for thrombotic and thromboembolic events in
some of the epidemiologic studies is actually due to use of
Ortho Evra,” according to the FDA’s report.  The patch is the object of hundreds of lawsuits filed by
women, most of whom allege Ortho Evra caused blood clots in the
legs or lungs. J&J has voluntarily strengthened the product’s
warning label three times since 2005 with the FDA’s agreement
and paid at least $68.7 million to settle the claims, according
to court records. J&J hasn’t disclosed revenue from Ortho Evra.  The agency’s October study also had found a significant
blood-clot risk with a class of oral contraceptives containing
drospirenone, such as  Bayer AG ’s Yaz. The same advisers are
scheduled tomorrow to discuss the blood-clot association with
Bayer’s pills. Drospirenone is similar to the natural female
hormone progesterone.  The FDA also called for more studies of drospirenone pills
in a  staff report  earlier yesterday ahead of the advisory
meeting and said the risk associated with them also is unclear.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 