-- 
James Drops Dalgliesh for Trip to Austen’s England: Interview

-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-12-06T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/james-drops-dalgliesh-for-trip-to-austen-s-england-interview.html
Jane Austen  famously refused to
acknowledge the Napoleonic Wars in her books. The detective
novelist P.D. James rectifies that in the first chapter of
“ Death Comes to Pemberley ,” her follow-up to “Pride and
Prejudice.” She even throws in a corpse.  “Pemberley” is an intensely satisfying mystery that
begins six years after Austen’s classic ends. The home of
Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy is abuzz with preparations for a ball.
So far, so Austen. Then comes the discovery of a dead body in
the woods nearby.  As a paid-up member of the  Jane Austen Society , the 91-
year-old James had long pondered the idea of combining her two
great enthusiasms: reading Austen and writing detective fiction.
Unsure of whether her creative energy would hold out for a 15th
book featuring Commander  Adam Dalgliesh , her poetry-writing
sleuth, she decided to give this shorter project a try.  “It was fascinating to address what I saw as not defects
in the plotting -- that would be quite the wrong word to use --
but problems, mysteries,” James says over a pot of tea in the
living room of her London home.  Though she has tinkered with some of the details, James
channels Austen’s voice with brio. “I wanted to be an echo of
hers,” she says.  “Pride and Prejudice” is not James’s favorite Austen
novel -- that would be “Emma” -- yet it was the first she
read, finding it on the Sunday school bookshelf when she was 9.
She loved it immediately. Years later, sheltering from the Blitz
in a London cellar while heavily pregnant with her first child,
she reached for it again.  Flying Bombs  “The noise above was tremendous because of the anti-
aircraft guns trying to shoot down these wretched flying bombs,
interspersed, of course, with the noise as they landed. It was
such comfort reading Austen.” She named her daughter Jane.  A tiny woman in a turquoise cardigan with a silk ruffle,
her faced framed by a snowy bob, James sinks back into the sofa
and rests her hands on her head to think, leaning forward when a
topic seizes her.  As dusk gathers outside, these topics range from  Hillary
Clinton  (she would have been a better bet than Obama, James
believes) to the Occupy movement’s London offshoot (she doesn’t
have much sympathy for the protesters). She even has views on
how much sex the dreary Mr. Collins, who marries Elizabeth
Bennet’s best friend, might demand of his wife (lots).  Darkness Within  Though animated by exactly the kind of shrewdness you’d
imagine a writer of detective fiction to possess, she also
radiates an unhesitating warmth, calling me “dear” and
laughing often.  Yet even in this grand room, with its William Morris
upholstery and antique portraits, a darkness dapples her
conversation. It’s there when she speaks of her belief in evil,
and of her ebbing faith in our ability to address the current
economic problems. In the very long term, she believes humankind
will go the way of the dinosaurs.  For all that, detective fiction, she says, is an inherently
optimistic genre, affirming our belief that we live in a
rational, comprehensible and manageable universe, and she isn’t
quite ready to confirm Dalgliesh’s retirement.  Meanwhile, aging, though it curtails the immense
independence she has known -- an independence Austen herself
would have envied -- has its blessings.  “When young, it seemed to me I was racing through life.
One knew that the tulip was beautiful, but there wasn’t the
sense of its beauty entering into one and giving one particular
joy. I think also in one’s personal relationships -- the ones
that last -- there is that feeling of something permanent and
something good.”  “Death Comes to Pemberley” is published by Knopf in the
U.S. and Faber in the U.K. (291 pages, $25.95, 18.99 pounds). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 