-- 
Japanese Stocks Fall as S&P Warns Europe; Meiji Plunges on Cesium Scare

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-12-06T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/japanese-stocks-decline-after-s-p-warns-germany-france-of-downgrade.html
Japanese  stocks  fell for the first
time in four days after  Standard & Poor’s  said it may strip
Europe’s biggest economies of their AAA ratings as the region’s
debt crisis spreads.  Toyota Motor Corp. , Asia’s biggest carmaker, slid 2.1
percent. Meiji Holdings Co. plunged 9.7 percent after a report
that radioactive cesium was found in some of the milk maker’s
products.  Tosoh Corp. (4042) , a chemical maker which last month had a
plant destroyed by a fire, sank 4.8 percent after Mizuho
Securities Co. cut its rating.  “The downgrade news isn’t good because that may cause
problems such as a hike in  interest rates  and other lingering
financial issues,” said Naoteru Teraoka, general manager at
Tokyo-based Chuo Mitsui Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $20 billion. “The market has to take it negatively.
Psychologically, it’s not good.”  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 1.4 percent to 8,575.16
at the 3 p.m. close in  Tokyo . The gauge rose 6.6 percent in the
six days through yesterday as the  Federal Reserve  and five other
central banks cut the cost of borrowing dollars for European
banks and  China  lowered lending curbs. The broader Topix lost
1.4 percent to 738.01 today.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  slipped 0.5
percent. The gauge gained 1 percent in  New York  yesterday as
optimism Europe would tame its debt crisis helped the market
weather a late-day selloff after reports S&P put France, Germany
and 13 other European countries on review for possible downgrade.  ‘Systematic Stresses’  “Systemic stresses in the euro zone have risen in recent
weeks to the extent that they now put downward pressure on the
credit standing of the euro zone as a whole,” the ratings
company said in a statement.  The warning came ahead of a two-day European summit this
week aimed at resolving the debt crisis. German Chancellor
Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy yesterday
said they would push to make the European Union more fiscally
integrated, with legal limits on how much debt countries can
take on.  Japanese exporters declined as the euro weakened against
the yen.  Toyota , which gets more than 70 percent of its sales
abroad, fell 2.1 percent to 2,606 yen. Sony Corp., an electronic
maker that depends on  Europe  for about 20 percent of its sales,
slid 1.9 percent to 1,371 yen. Fanuc Corp.,  Japan ’s top maker of
industrial robots, dropped 1.2 percent to 12,870 yen.  Meiji’s Cesium Scare  The yen appreciated to as high as 103.93 against the euro
today in Tokyo, compared with 104.50 at the close of  stock
trading  yesterday. Against the dollar, Japan’s currency
strengthened to 77.68 from 77.96. A stronger yen cuts overseas
income at Japanese companies when repatriated.  Meiji  tumbled 9.7 percent to 3,020 yen, the largest drop in
the Nikkei 225, after Kyodo news reported radioactive cesium was
found in the company’s powdered milk. The company will recall
400,000 cans of the  infant formula , according to the report,
which said the contamination may be the result of radiation
leaked from the wrecked Fukushima nuclear power plant.  Meiji confirmed the report and said the contamination poses
no health risk. Shares of other Japanese dairy-producers
declined. Morinaga Milk Industry Co. and Megmilk Snow Brand Co.
dropped more than 3.5 percent.  Tosoh sank 4.8 percent to 219 yen after Mizuho Securities
cut its equity rating to “neutral” from “buy.” The company
said on Nov. 15 it would forgo payment of its first-half
dividend due to the impact of a fire that killed a worker and
destroyed one of its chemical plants in Japan.  Olympus Corp. (7733)  advanced the most on the Nikkei 225, jumping
9.1 percent to 1,190 yen after Kyodo said the scandal-hit
company will hire more outside directors to improve corporate
governance. In a report released after the market closed, a
panel probing the company’s concealment of investment losses
said senior management was “rotten to the core.”  Olympus’ shares have fallen by more than half since Oct 14.,
when questioned surfaced about over-sized payments to advisors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  