-- 
Asia Stocks Gain on Optimism Europe Will Boost Efforts to Stem Debt Crisis

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-12-07T10:37:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/japan-stock-futures-gain-on-optimism-europe-to-boost-effort-to-stem-crisis.html
Asian  stocks (MXAPJ)  rose on speculation
European leaders meeting this week in Brussels will step up
efforts to fight the debt crisis and stave off lower national
credit ratings that may make funding bailouts more costly.  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. , operator of the world’s largest
merchant fleet, rose 11 percent in  Tokyo  after agreeing to form
a supertanker pool.  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which operates container
facilities in Greece, advanced 3.5 percent in  Hong Kong  after
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won parliamentary support
for a plan to cut debt and keep the country in the euro. Tripod
Technology Corp., a maker of circuit boards, rose 7 percent as a
rival sought to price its initial public offering at a valuation
higher than Tripod’s shares.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 1.4 percent to 118.24 as
of 7:32 p.m. in Tokyo, set to gain for the seventh day in eight.
All 10 industry groups on the measure gained, with about four
stocks advancing for each that declined.  “I think the main announcement will be around the move
towards a fiscal union and measures around that,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has about $100 billion under management.
“Having a union on its own doesn’t do anything to stop the
current crisis. But it provides credit confidence for the
 European Central Bank  to step in and ultimately put  Europe  on to
a path where investors can trust public debt markets in Europe.
That confidence-effect translates to Asian share markets.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 1.7 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 index gained 0.7 percent after a report
showed the nation’s economy grew more than estimated in the
third quarter. South Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 0.9 percent.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index increased 1.6 percent.  U.S. Futures  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 15 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 0.1 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a 12 percent slump by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.8 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.7 times for the S&P 500
and 10.6 times for the Stoxx 600.  Cosco Pacific rose 3.5 percent to HK$9.41 in Hong Kong.
Nissan Motor Co., which depends on Europe for 15 percent of its
sales, gained 1.3 percent to 708 yen in Tokyo.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  advanced 0.8
percent today. German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said
S&P’s move to place 15 euro nations, including Germany and
France, on review for possible credit downgrades will help force
European leaders to ratchet up efforts to resolve the debt
crisis at their summit in Brussels on Dec. 8-9. The ratings
company said cuts would depend on the meeting’s outcome.  Closer Ties  A German-French push for closer economic ties in Europe won
the backing of U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who
urged governments to work with central banks to erect a
“stronger firewall” to end the debt crisis. The European
Central Bank will probably cut its benchmark interest rate by a
quarter point to 1 percent when policy makers meet, according to
58 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Greek Prime Minister Papademos received parliamentary
approval for a 2012 budget that aims to almost halve the deficit
shortfall from a debt writedown and ensure Greece remains a
member of the euro area.  “Investors’ eyes are now off Greece,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps oversee $6 billion at Shinkin Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “Nonetheless, the fact that it’s now
easier to pass measures amidst all the fiscal concern can be
taken positively.”  Mitsui O.S.K Surges  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines  surged 11 percent to 288 yen after
saying it plans to form a pool of  oil tankers  with four other
companies to cut costs. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd., Japan’s
third-biggest shipping line by sales, gained 7.3 percent to 147
yen.  China Shipping Container Lines Co., the container arm of
China Shipping (Group) Co., rose 11 percent to HK$1.70 after
Chairman Li Shaode said there may be opportunities for
acquisitions in the industry next year. China Cosco Holdings
Co., a Chinese operator of container ships and terminals, gained
11 percent to HK$3.90 in Hong Kong, the biggest gain in the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index.  Meiji Holdings Co., a Japanese dairy-products producer,
gained 5.1 percent to 3,175 yen. The shares slid the most since
March 15 yesterday after a Kyodo News report that radioactive
cesium had been found in powdered milk. Meiji said the levels of
contamination posed no risks to health.  Tripod Tech Gains  Tripod Technology (2317)  gained 7 percent to NT$72.3 in Taipei.
Rival Zhen Ding Technology Holding Ltd. sought to price its
shares at about NT$60 and at a valuation of about 16 times this
year’s estimated earnings, according to Eric Chang, spokesman
for the company. Tripod is trading at 8.7 times estimated
earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are favoring Tripod because Zhen Ding is aiming
to price its shares at a “high price,” Birdy Lu, an analyst at
Samsung Securities Co. said by phone from Hong Kong today.  Hyundai Development Co. (012630) , a South Korean builder, rose 7.9
percent to 19,800 won in Seoul after the government said it will
cut transfer taxes on owners of more than one house and will
lower  interest rates  on loans for first-home buyers.  LG Chem Ltd. (051910) , a chemical manufacturer, sank 5.6 percent to
328,500 won in Seoul and was the most actively traded stock by
value in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Maeil Business Newspaper
reported the company will spin off its battery business next
year, citing an unnamed company official. LG Chem spokesman Owen
Sung denied the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  