-- 
Jefferies Has Enough Liquidity to Weather Challenging Markets, Fitch Says

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-12-06T18:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/jefferies-has-enough-liquidity-to-weather-challenging-markets-fitch-says.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the investment
bank whose stock plunged last month after the collapse of MF
Global Holdings Ltd., has sufficient liquidity to weather debt-
market turmoil,  Fitch Ratings  said.  “The firm has been able to continue to fund its business
on economically viable terms,” the ratings company said today
in a statement. Jefferies “established that it has sufficient
liquidity to allow it to navigate what Fitch expects to be a
challenging market environment.”  Jefferies Chief Executive Officer  Richard Handler  has
sought to reassure investors that the New York-based company
doesn’t face the types of leveraged and concentrated risks that
forced MF Global into bankruptcy. That firm failed when
investors lost confidence in its ability to manage a $6.3
billion bet on European sovereign debt.  “Unlike MF, Jefferies’s sovereign exposure supports its
European rates market-making business,” Fitch wrote. “None of
its sovereign exposures are off-balance sheet nor based on
significant proprietary positions, and the firm does not use
credit-default swaps to hedge.”  Jefferies pared losses in New York trading after Fitch’s
statement, declining 3.2 percent to $12.49 at 12:45 p.m. after
earlier falling as much as 3.8 percent.  Egan-Jones  Handler, 50, defended his firm as it came under pressure
from short sellers and a credit downgrade by Egan-Jones Ratings
Co. Jefferies issued at least seven statements on its European
holdings and cut its position by about three-quarters as of Nov.
21. A Nov. 23 report from Egan-Jones said Jefferies needs to
raise $1 billion in equity and reduce leverage.  Jefferies has “stable leverage,” and 87 percent of the
collateral supporting its repurchase transactions is eligible
for funding through a central clearinghouse, an “important
mitigant against  liquidity risk ,” Fitch wrote.  “Jefferies’ stock price and its bond spreads are likely to
continue to experience fragile market confidence and investor
views of a wholesale-funded firm with earnings prospects that
are likely to remain challenged through 2012,” Fitch wrote.
“However, Fitch believes Jefferies has adequate liquidity to
navigate the coming challenging quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  