-- 
Joint Light Tactical Vehicle Gains Backing in $518 Billion Bill

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/joint-light-tactical-vehicle-gains-backing-in-518-billion-bill.html
U.S. Senate and House negotiators
plan to fund development of new combat trucks for the Army and
Marine Corps as part of a Pentagon spending bill for fiscal year
2012.  Lawmakers negotiating the defense appropriations bill are
expected to support the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle program in
the compromise legislation, according to two congressional aides
who weren’t authorized to speak on the record about the
negotiations. The Senate Appropriations panel had voted in
September to end the potential $54 billion project.  The chairmen of the Senate and House Appropriations
committees are expected to introduce next week a spending bill
that includes $518 billion for Pentagon operations and about
$115 billion to cover wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  The defense measure will be part of a catch-all legislative
package that will also fund other government agencies for the
fiscal year that started Oct. 1.  The Pentagon is funded through a stopgap measure, known as
a continuing resolution, which expires Dec. 16. Without annual
appropriations signed into law, the Pentagon lacks authority to
start approved programs, move weapons programs from development
into production or increase manufacturing rates.  After the Senate Appropriations Committee on Sept. 13
proposed ending the estimated $54 billion JLTV program, citing
“excessive cost growth,” the Army and Marine Corps developed a
strategy to reduce the unit cost.  The new estimated unit costs range between $230,000 to
$270,000 for base vehicle configurations, according to a draft
request. The original unit cost was at least $350,000.  Three Contracts  Three companies in 2008 won technology development
contracts for the program: General Tactical Vehicles, a joint
venture of  General Dynamics (GD)  Land Systems, part of  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based General Dynamics Corp., and  South Bend , Indiana-
based AM General LLC;  BAE Systems  Land & Armaments, part of
London-based  BAE Systems Plc ; and Bethesda, Maryland-based
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)   Under the contracts, General Tactical Vehicles has received
$74.6 million; BAE Systems $77.4 million; and Lockheed $65.4
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  President  Barack Obama  requested $244 million for the JLTV
program in his fiscal 2012 budget, all in research and
development funding, up from $84.7 million in fiscal 2011 and
$83.9 million in fiscal 2010, according to Pentagon budget
documents.  Bill Differences  The defense subcommittee of the House Appropriations
Committee in June cut $50 million in JLTV funding and increased
by the same amount research and development funding for Humvee
“survivability enhancements.”  The House in July passed a $530 billion defense-spending
bill that was $9 billion below the Pentagon’s fiscal 2012
request for core defense programs, excluding funding for the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  The Senate Appropriations Committee later cut $26 billion
from the Pentagon request, in line with the deficit-reduction
law that Congress passed and Obama signed in August.  For 2012, the Pentagon requested $117.8 billion for war
operations, including the military mission in Afghanistan.
Congressional negotiators plan to fund war operations for the
year at about $115 billion. Details of funding for programs in
the Pentagon’s base bill as well as war funding are still in
flux until the final legislation is officially submitted before
the two chambers are scheduled to vote on it.  Virginia Representative Jim Moran, a Democrat and a senior
member of the appropriations panel, said that he expected
Congress to pass a regular defense appropriations bill by Dec.
16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  