-- 
KNOC May Spend Up to $4 Billion Next Year to Buy Oil Assets

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-12-06T07:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/knoc-may-spend-up-to-4-billion-next-year-to-buy-oil-assets-1-.html
Korea National Oil Corp. , a state
energy developer, said it may spend as much as $4 billion next
year on buying overseas oil assets to expand production.  “A similar amount of investment may be made in 2012
compared with this year,” Im Hong Geun, executive vice
president for  Asia , Middle East and Commonwealth Independence
States at the Anyang, South Korea-based company, said in an
interview today. The energy developer, known as KNOC, is
currently discussing the budget with the government, Im said.  “We need to boost our daily output to 300,000 barrels a
day,” from 215,000 barrels as of September, said Im, who was
attending the Energy & Mineral Resources Development  Symposium 
in  Seoul .  South Korean energy companies have bid for at least $4.3
billion of overseas assets this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. KNOC said in February it plans to invest as much
as $4 billion in overseas oilfields this year.  The South Korean company will seek stakes in oil projects
in the  Middle East , Central Asia and  Russia  next year, according
to Im.  “We may also participate in projects in deep-sea locations
and remote areas,” he said. “We may approach these in the
medium to long term. The cost of drilling an exploratory well in
these areas may be $100 million to $150 million.”  Rising raw-material prices are spurring  South Korea  to
boost investments in commodities ranging from oil and gas to
copper, as it competes for supplies with China and  India .  KNOC bought 95 percent of Kazakhstan’s Altius Holdings Inc.
for $515 million in March and completed the purchase of Canadian
oil and gas assets from Dallas-based Hunt Oil Co. for C$525
million ($515 million) in June.  The South Korean company said in March it also agreed to
acquire a stake in a Texas shale-oil block from Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. for $1.55 billion.  The energy developer expects its oil-sand and shale-gas
assets in  North America  to start production in 2013, Im said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at   sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 