-- 
Koruna Weakens Versus Euro as Czech Stocks, Bonds Tumble on S&P

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-12-06T16:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/koruna-weakens-versus-euro-as-czech-stocks-tumble-on-s-p-review.html
The koruna slid from its strongest in
a month against the euro and Czech stocks and bonds fell after
 Standard & Poor’s  said it may cut credit ratings across the euro
region, the main market for exports from the  Czech Republic .  The Czech currency depreciated as much as 1.1 percent and
traded down 0.6 percent to 25.245 per euro by 5 p.m. in Prague.
The  PX (PX)  equity gauge slid 1.2 percent today, led by a 2.2 percent
drop for Austria’s  Erste Group Bank AG. (EBS)   European stocks fell, French and Spanish bond yields rose
and most emerging-market currencies weakened after S&P said
Germany and France risk losing their AAA ratings in a review of
15 nations. Yesterday, the Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose to its
highest in more than a month after Italian Prime Minister  Mario
Monti  proposed measures to cut the nation’s deficit and debt.
The measure fell as much as 0.8 percent today.  “The positive global mood has been halted by the S&P
decision,”  Gyula Toth , head of strategy for central and eastern
Europe, the Middle East and Africa at UniCredit SpA in Vienna,
wrote in an e-mailed report to clients today.  The Czech Republic relies on exports for around 70 percent
of gross domestic product. Concern that a worsening of the euro
area’s debt crisis will hurt demand for Czech goods overshadowed
a report from the statistics office in Prague today showing that
retail sales rose in October by 1.5 percent from a year earlier.  Czech government bonds fell, lifting 10-year  yields  by 10
basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 3.89 percent, generic
indexes compiled by Bloomberg News show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  