-- 
MKP Capital Management to Start London Credit Team for Europe Opportunity

-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 
2011-12-06T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/mkp-capital-to-start-london-team-for-european-debt-opportunity.html
MKP Capital Management LLC, the New
York-based global macro and structured-credit hedge fund with
$4.5 billion in assets, is starting a credit team in  London  to
invest in European debt.  Steven Jeraci, a partner at MKP, will relocate to the
firm’s London office to hire investment professionals and build
the team’s infrastructure, the hedge fund said in a statement
scheduled for release today, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News. The team should be in place by the end of next
year, the company said.  U.S. asset managers are increasingly looking to Europe as
the continent’s sovereign-debt crisis has created investment
opportunities. Hedge fund and private-equity firms such as
Apollo Global Management LLC have raised about $7 billion for
funds targeting European distressed assets since 2009 and are
seeking another $7 billion, according to London-based researcher
Preqin Ltd.  “Considering  Europe ’s influence on markets globally, plus
the risks and rewards being created by the transformation of the
European financial system, MKP’s investors will clearly benefit
from an expansion of our European credit presence,” Patrick McMahon, chief executive officer of MKP, said in the statement.
“A credit team in London will naturally complement our existing
macro and credit teams by providing on-the-ground intelligence
and surveillance.”  MKP Opportunity Fund  MKP Opportunity, the firm’s global macro fund with more
than $1.5 billion in assets, climbed 1.2 percent last month
through Nov. 25 and 12 percent this year, according to a person
briefed on the returns, who asked not to be identified because
the information is private. Macro funds seek to profit from
broad economic trends by trading currencies, bonds, stocks and
commodities.  The $2.5 billion MKP Credit fund increased 0.4 percent last
month through Nov. 25 and declined 5.2 percent this year, the
person said. Hedge funds fell 2.9 percent through October as the
European debt crisis roiled global markets, according to the
Bloomberg aggregate hedge-fund index.  A spokesman for MKP declined to comment on the returns.  MKP, co-founded by McMahon, Maurice Perkins and Eric Keiter
in 1995, seeks to capitalize on economic trends and trades
various credit holdings, with a focus on residential and
commercial mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed
securities. Perkins will retire from MKP at the end of the year,
the firm said in July. Keiter retired in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  