-- 
Kuwaiti Emir Issues Decree Dissolving Parliament to Defuse Mass Protests

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-12-06T14:18:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/kuwaiti-emir-issues-decree-dissolving-parliament-to-defuse-mass-protests.html
Kuwait ’s ruler dissolved parliament
and said elections should be held, after a dispute over
corruption allegations sparked anti-government protests
unprecedented in the Persian Gulf state.  The political tensions are obstructing Kuwait’s progress,
requiring “a return to the nation to choose its representatives
in order to overcome obstacles and achieve national welfare,”
according to a decree issued by Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al- Jaber Al-Sabah today and cited by state news agency  Kuna . It
didn’t say when the vote will be held.  The move came eight days after the Cabinet, headed by
Sheikh Nasser Al-Mohammed Al-Sabah, resigned following months of
protests calling for his ouster and a change in government.
Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Sabah was appointed to replace  Sheikh
Nasser  as premier on Nov. 30.  The standoff between Kuwait’s opposition and the government
has put the political system under growing strain. Kuwait’s
rulers have granted more powers to elected lawmakers than other
monarchs in the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council, without
satisfying opposition groups who say they are still denied a
representative role in shaping policy. Their political tussles
have slowed economic growth and delayed key investment projects.  ‘Upping the Ante’  “We’re now at a junction and we can’t afford to repeat the
same mistakes,” said Abdullah al-Shayji, chairman of the
political science department at Kuwait University. The growing
youth protests are “a harbinger for upping the ante and raising
the bar for the next prime minister and parliament.”  The latest wave of demonstrations focused on a corruption
scandal involving the alleged transfer of millions of dollars to
lawmakers, and allegations that Sheikh Nasser transferred public
funds into his foreign bank accounts. Sheikh Nasser’s government
had denied the accusations.  Some leaders of Kuwait’s opposition have focused on the
fight against corruption, calling for political reform without
changes to the constitution. Others, especially younger
protesters who cite inspiration from the Arab Spring, are
demanding more sweeping changes such as elected governments
under a constitutional monarchy.  Organizers said about 50,000 people rallied on Nov. 28,
hours after Sheikh Nasser’s Cabinet quit. It was the seventh
time his government had volunteered or been forced to stand down
since he was first appointed in 2006, and each previous time he
was reappointed by the Gulf nation’s ruler.  The National Assembly has been dissolved four times since
then, most recently in March 2009 when the government resigned
to sidestep requests by lawmakers to question Sheikh Nasser over
the economy and his office’s expenses.  “We’re being ground to a halt, we’re all completely
disillusioned, and now again it’s back to the polls,” al-Shayji
said in a phone interview. “The next parliament will determine
where Kuwait will be heading in the next decade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  