-- 
KV Pharmaceutical to Pay $17 Million to Settle Federal False Claims Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-06T23:30:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/kv-pharmaceutical-to-pay-17-million-to-settle-federal-false-claims-case.html
KV Pharmaceutical Co.  agreed to pay
$17 million to settle allegations that it made false claims to
the U.S. in seeking reimbursement for unapproved drugs.  The settlement resolves allegations made in a
whistleblower lawsuit filed in Boston federal court, according
to an e-mailed statement today from the Justice Department. The
U.S. claimed that Ethex Corp., a now-defunct unit of KV
Pharmaceutical, misrepresented the regulatory status of
Nitroglycerin ER and Hyoscyamine Sulfate ER, according to the
statement.  The Food and Drug Administration found the drugs ineligible
for reimbursement by government health programs including
Medicaid, the Justice Department said. The company will pay
$10.2 million to the U.S. and $6.8 million to states involved in
the lawsuit. The whistleblower will receive $1.5 million from
the U.S. share of the settlement, according to the statement.  “Today’s settlement underscores our commitment to pursuing
pharmaceutical companies that allegedly provide false
information to obtain taxpayer dollars for unapproved and
ineffective drugs,” said Tony West, assistant attorney general
for the Justice Department’s Civil Division.  The $17 million will be paid out over five years, with less
than $1 million to be paid within the first year, Greg Divis,
president and chief executive officer of the Bridgeton,
Missouri-based drugmaker, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We are satisfied with the settlement terms and the
resolution of a legacy issue associated with our dissolved Ethex
subsidiary,” Divis said.  Nitroglycerin ER is used to treat chest pain due to lack of
oxygen supply to the heart muscle. Hyoscyamine ER is an
antispasmodic medicine used to treat stomach, intestinal or
urinary tract disorders.  The case is U.S., ex rel v. Actavis Mid-Atlantic, 02-11738,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 