-- 
N.Z. Municipalities May Offer Debut Debt in Europe, U.S. Under New Agency

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-12-06T00:18:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/n-z-municipalities-may-offer-debut-debt-in-europe-u-s-under-new-agency.html
New Zealand ’s newly formed municipal
debt agency, forecast to become its second-biggest non-bank bond
issuer, may carry out the first foreign sales of regional notes
to cut costs as cities boost borrowings.  The Local Government Funding Agency, set up to sell bonds
on behalf of New Zealand’s councils, may offer notes in  Europe 
and the U.S. private placement market, Chairman Craig Stobo said
today. Regional authorities including Auckland and Christchurch
may more than double outstanding debt to NZ$11 billion ($8.6
billion).  Cities and towns across New Zealand are betting investors
will find their bonds more appealing after  sovereign yields 
dropped to records. New Zealand government debt returned 13.1
percent to investors this year, the best after U.K. bonds across
26 markets tracked by Bloomberg. The LGFA, incorporated Dec. 1
to buy councils’ securities and issue debt under its own name,
expects to match New Zealand’s AA+ score from Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings, the second-highest level, Stobo said.  “It will be an attractive investment in the current
investment climate when people are looking for security and a
pickup in yield,” Stobo said in an interview. “That will be
attractive to larger institutions, bank balance sheets and
global investors.”  City councils had been banned from selling debt abroad.  New Zealand lost its AAA grades on local-currency debt at
Fitch and S&P in September, which both cited concern about the
nation’s fiscal burden. The local-currency rating was reduced
one level to AA+, the same grade as the U.S., and the foreign-
currency rating was cut to AA from AA+.  Auckland Bonds  The local government for Auckland, the nation’s most
populous city, sold NZ$100 million of 5.79 percent 2017 bonds in
April, which yielded 4.917 percent as of Dec. 5, according to
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices and data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 3.565 percent on the
New Zealand sovereign bond due the same year, the prices show.  “These entities are very secure borrowers,” Grant Hassell, head of fixed income at AMP Capital Investors, said in
an interview. “They have got all sorts of ability to tax
homeowners and effectively take possession of homes as security,
and there is also an implicit level of government support.”  Some investors in municipal debt may be disadvantaged by
the new setup, Hassell said. Many of New Zealand’s investment
managers aren’t able to own more than 10 percent of a single
entity and amalgamation will restrict their choice of councils,
he said.  Yields Dropping  Auckland, whose debt is rated AA, led municipal bond
offerings in New Zealand this year, selling NZ$690 million of
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Average
government  yields  fell 174 basis points, or 1.74 percentage
points, this year to 3.55 percent on Nov. 16, an all-time low,
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes show.  The LGFA is owned by its municipal authority borrowers and
the government, Stobo said in the interview last week. More than
20 councils have expressed interest in joining the existing 18
member shareholders, which would give the agency the bulk of New
Zealand’s local government borrowings, he said.  The agency has appointed Phil Combes, treasurer of the New
Zealand Debt Management Office, as chief executive officer. He
will move to the role early next year.  Municipal authorities in New Zealand have about NZ$5
billion of bonds outstanding, according to Stobo. The combined
10-year borrowing plans of those councils amount to about NZ$11
billion, he said.  The central government has NZ$65.2 billion of bonds
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  