-- 
New Zealand May Join Asia Rate Holdouts as Europe Spurs Australian Easing

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s ,   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-12-07T02:36:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/n-z-may-join-asia-holdouts-as-europe-spurs-australia-rate-cut.html
New Zealand  may keep interest rates
at a record low, joining South  Korea  and Indonesia in holding
borrowing costs this week after a deteriorating global outlook
pushed Australia to ease monetary policy for the second month.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard will
leave the official cash rate at 2.5 percent in a 9 a.m. decision
in Wellington tomorrow, all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News predict. All 16 economists in a separate survey expect the
 Bank of Korea  to hold its  key rate  at 3.25 percent at 10 a.m.,
while 17 of 22 economists say  Bank Indonesia ’s  benchmark  will
stay at 6 percent.  The three countries have so far weathered  Europe ’s
deepening debt crisis, with earthquake reconstruction in New
Zealand, two previous rate cuts in  Indonesia  and  South Korea ’s
exports supporting the growth outlook. Asian policy makers who
have refrained from easing are juggling the need to guard
against inflation with increasing pressure to protect expansion.  “Monetary policy is going to differ country by country,”
said Sailesh K. Jha, Singapore-based head of Asia markets
strategy at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB and a former Asian
Development Bank official. “Korea is looking pretty good; they
are obviously concerned about growth but they are not at the
tipping point in terms of having to cut” while others are
worried about the outlook for exports, he said.  Stocks Fall  Asia stocks dropped for the first time in seven days
yesterday after  Standard & Poor’s  put 15 European nations on
watch for potential ratings downgrades, with the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index falling 1.4 percent. It rose 0.8 percent as of
10:31 a.m. in  Singapore  today.  Australia ’s central bank cut the overnight cash-rate target
by a quarter percentage point to 4.25 percent this week,
predicting that “the likelihood of a further material slowing
in global growth has increased.”  Thailand  lowered borrowing
costs on Nov. 30 while  China  reduced lenders’ reserve
requirements for the first time since 2008.  In contrast, New Zealand may not change rates until March,
when four of the 15 economists in the survey expect an increase.  Bollard forecast in September that the economy will grow
3.1 percent in the year through March 2013 and annual inflation
will climb to 2.3 percent by late 2013. He is required to keep
inflation between 1 percent and 3 percent.  Wheels Still On  “While the wheels may yet fall off they haven’t so far,”
said Stephen Toplis, head of research at Bank of New Zealand
Ltd. in Wellington. “This is not an environment that argues for
any easing in policy.”  Rebuilding of earthquake-devastated Christchurch is due to
begin in the second half of 2012. Bollard said in October it
would be “inappropriate, all else equal, for  monetary policy  to
be stimulatory during the reconstruction period.”  In South Korea, gross domestic product expanded more than
the central bank initially estimated in the third quarter as
exports of cars and metal products increased. The economy grew
0.8 percent over the three months through September from the
second quarter, compared with an October estimate of 0.7
percent, the Bank of Korea said yesterday.  “Pressures for a cut are mounting,” said Ronald Man, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. “But for now, the
case for a cut is not sufficiently strong given still robust
exports, pick-up in U.S. demand, and high inflation.”  Consumer prices in South Korea rose 4.2 percent from a year
earlier in November, accelerating to a three-month high and
breaching the central bank’s target limit.  Rupiah’s Decline  In Indonesia, a more-than 5 percent drop in the rupiah in
the past three months has threatened to revive price pressures
even as easing inflation allowed the central bank to cut rates
in October and November.  “The cumulative cut of 75 basis points is sufficient
insurance for now to protect growth from a global downturn,”
Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, said in a Dec. 1 note.  Bank Indonesia will weigh the impact of a further rate cut
on capital outflows when it sets borrowing costs this week,
Perry Warjiyo, its director of economic research and monetary
policy, said Dec. 5.  “If we look at it from the point of view of slowing
inflation, of course there’s still room to cut  interest rates 
further,” Warjiyo said. “But the problem is that the decision
on interest rates isn’t dependent only on inflation, but also
from the point of view of its impact on capital outflows.”  The risk to New Zealand exports, which make up 30 percent
of the economy, has prompted investors to reduce bets that
Bollard will raise rates, pushing the nation’s currency down
more than 6 percent the past three months.  Fisher & Paykel Appliances Holdings Ltd. (FPA) , New Zealand’s
biggest maker of refrigerators and washers, said in November
full-year operating earnings will fall more than previously
expected, citing weak demand.  “The weaker global economy and substantial downside risks
to the outlook threaten to derail New Zealand’s export-led
recovery over 2012,” said  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB
Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “There is little urgency for the  Reserve
Bank  to raise the cash rate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  