-- 
NBA’s Labor Contract May Exclude HGH Testing  as Negotiating Time Dwindles

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-12-06T15:49:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/nba-s-labor-contract-may-exclude-hgh-testing-as-negotiating-time-dwindles.html
The  National Basketball Association 
and its players may not include blood tests for human growth
hormone as they race to finish a labor contract in time to start
the season on Dec. 25.  Squeezed by the time constraints of ratifying its agreement
and shaped by the belief that such exams are unwarranted, the
league and the  National Basketball Players Association  have made
HGH testing a “B-list” issue that may be added later,
according to Michael McCann, director of the  Sports Law
Institute  at Vermont Law School.  That’s angered the top U.S. sports drug fighter, who said a
similar delay has cost the  National Football League  almost a
full season of testing for the banned muscle builder.  Major
League Baseball  last month announced a five-year labor deal that
includes blood tests for HGH.  “It shouldn’t be a secondary issue,” said Travis Tygart,
chief executive officer of the  U.S. Anti-Doping Agency . “If you
care about the integrity of competition and the rights of clean
athletes, it ought to be a fundamental issue that’s done in the
first instance.”  Billy Hunter , the players association executive director,
declined a request to talk about the HGH issue heading into
negotiations on Dec. 2.  Dan Wasserman , a spokesman for the NBPA,
declined to comment in a telephone interview.  “It has always been a significant subject of collective
bargaining, and the details are currently being negotiated,”
 Mike Bass , a spokesman for the NBA, said in an e-mail yesterday.  After reaching an agreement in principle on a contract to
end a season-shortening lockout and settle multiple lawsuits,
the NBA and its players began negotiating non-economic issues
such as drug testing.  NFL Program  The NFL, the most-watched U.S. professional sport with more
than $9 billion in annual revenue, also included HGH blood
testing as part of an August labor contract, though the NFL
Players Association has delayed its implementation while
disputing the program details.  USADA, which oversees drug testing of American Olympic
sports from its Colorado Springs, Colorado, headquarters, hasn’t
heard from either the NBA or its union regarding HGH testing,
Tygart said.  USA Basketball’s men’s team, made up of NBA players, has
been subject to USADA’s full drug-testing program since 2002 and
was blood tested for HGH since before the Beijing Olympics in
2008.  “The players don’t have a problem with it and support it
so long as they know the players they are competing against are
held to the same standards,” Tygart said in a telephone
interview. “If you are in a sport where they don’t test blood,
you are being given a license to use HGH and cheat your fellow
competitors.”  Training Camps  The NBA and the players agreed in principle on a labor deal
on Nov. 26, with plans to complete the agreement and open
training camps Dec. 9, leaving enough time to start the 66-game
season by the Christmas Day holiday.  “A B-list issue like drug testing probably needs more time
than the amount of time that they have,” McCann said in a
telephone interview. “Unless they’ve talked about these issues
much more than we know of, it’s going to be tough to get through
complicated changes to the drug-testing policy.”  The two sides would be better off negotiating changes to
the drug policy later and including them as an attachment to the
collective bargaining agreement in coming months or at season’s
end, McCann said.  “It ensures the players that they don’t agree to something
-- just to have a season -- that they later regret,” McCann
said.  Missed Season  The NFL and its players’ association agreed to include HGH
testing in last-minute discussions that delayed voting on
ratification of its labor deal. The NFL’s contract states a
“goal of beginning testing by the first week of the regular
season.” The season began Sept. 8 and has four weeks left
before the playoffs.  The NFL delays have led to criticism by members of the  U.S.
Congress  and the World Anti-Doping Association.  Whether the NBA and its players are interested in HGH
testing is in doubt. Both Hunter and NBA Commissioner  David Stern  said at a 2008 congressional hearing on drugs in sports
that they opposed blood tests for players.  Stern suggested that Congress work to have a reliable urine
test developed “rather than requiring players to go through
blood tests, needles and the things that might be of valid
concern.”  Hunter said as recently as last month that his players were
tested enough in a league that doesn’t have a performance-
enhancing drug problem, and that they shouldn’t be subjected to
blood testing.  ‘Self-Serving Statement’  “It’s a totally self-serving statement that’s completely
out of touch with today’s win-at-all-cost sports culture,”
Tygart said. “It’s shockingly disappointing to hear that from
someone who supposedly is in a position to protect the health
and safety of players.”  Major League Baseball, which uncovered dozens of
performance-enhancing drug violations during the last decade,
began HGH testing in its minor leagues in 2010. Former  New York 
Mets first baseman Mike Jacobs became the first baseball player
to fail an HGH test, receiving a 50-game ban in August. There
also have been positive HGH tests in cycling and rugby in recent
years.  “If you run, if you sweat, if you lift weights in
preparation for a long season, if you do any aerobic or
anaerobic activity in your sport, HGH can be a powerful but also
dangerous performance-enhancing drug,” Tygart said.  The recent steps taken by the other leagues to strengthen
HGH testing might make it easier for the NBA to sell changes to
its players, said McCann.  “No players association wants to be the first to agree to
a change in the way players are treated,” McCann said. “That
gives the owners more authority over them. The NFL players did
that, opening the door for other associations to not look as if
they’re giving up a lot by agreeing to HGH testing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 