-- 
Netflix’s CEO Sees ‘Arms Race’ to Dominate Video Streaming

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-12-06T23:37:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/netflix-ceo-sees-arms-race-to-dominate-streaming-labels-hbo-top-rival.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief Executive
Officer Reed Hastings said he sees an “arms race” to dominate
Web-based TV viewing, with  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  HBO  Go service his
top competitor.  “The competitor we fear most is HBO Go,” Hastings said
today at a UBS media conference in  New York . “HBO is becoming
more Netflix-like and we’re becoming more HBO-like. The two of
us will compete for a very long time.”  Hastings downplayed the emergence of other competitors,
such as  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , saying
rivals will have to spend $1 billion to $2 billion a year on
content. New competitors also will have to get their offerings
on more devices in the home, particularly so-called smart TVs
with built-in Web connections, he said.  Half of home-video viewing will come through the Internet
as soon as 2016, aided by expanding fiber-optic networks that
can carry the data and more Web-enabled TVs, Hastings said.  “The industry is very motivated around this concept of
smart TVs,” Hastings said.  Los Gatos , California-based Netflix, which offers
subscriptions for video-streaming and DVDs by mail, fell 2.8
percent to $68.14 at 4 p.m. New York time. The stock has lost 61
percent this year.  Hastings, 51, also said Netflix sees no quick return to
profitability after alienating customers with changes in pricing
and subscription terms earlier this year.  Subscriber Losses  Netflix lost 800,000 U.S. subscribers in the third quarter,
the company reported on Oct. 24. Hastings declined to comment on
fourth-quarter subscriber trends, while predicting gains in
2012.  “We are very optimistic that we can put up very
substantial growth next year,” Hastings said.  In response to a question, Hastings wouldn’t comment on
whether he is interested in selling the company. Netflix’s
market value has dropped to $3.77 billion from almost $16
billion in less than five months after the company increased
prices and lost customers.  Steve Swasey , a spokesman, said
Netflix doesn’t discuss rumors and speculation.  The company spent most of last year fending off claims from
content providers that its all-you-can-eat service devalued
their offerings.  “Now it’s just pity” because of the company’s missteps,
Hastings joked.  World on Hold  Hastings forecasts losses for 2012 because of costs to
start service in the U.K. and Ireland. The company in October
said free  cash flow  would lag behind net income for several
quarters as it increased spending on content.  Netflix had $365.8 million in cash and short-term
investments at the end of the third quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company raised $400 million with the
sale of stock and convertible notes last month.  Hastings has put further geographic expansion on hold while
seeking to contain a subscriber revolt over a price increase and
an aborted plan to split its streaming and DVD-by-mail
businesses.  “We’re not putting a lot of time and energy” into the
declining DVD business, Hastings said.  To keep users and restart growth, Netflix is adding to its
streaming library. The company said on Nov. 18 it would offer
new episodes of “Arrested Development,” a Fox comedy that was
canceled in 2006 and is being resurrected for a limited run of
television episodes and a movie. Netflix will have exclusive
access to the new episodes beginning in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  