-- 
New York Executives Go to Trial on $21 Million Fraud

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-12-06T19:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/new-york-executives-go-to-trial-on-charges-of-defrauding-amalgamated-bank.html
Two executives of a  New York  holding
company that owned lighting and furniture dealers used false
information to get $21 million in loans from Amalgamated Bank, a
prosecutor said at the start of their fraud trial.  Courtney Dupree, the owner and chief executive officer of
GDC Acquisitions LLC in  Long Island City  in Queens, New York,
and Thomas Foley, a lawyer in Hoboken,  New Jersey , who was the
company’s outside counsel and then became its chief operating
officer, are charged with bank fraud, conspiracy and false
statements.  “This is a case about lying to a bank to get money,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney David Woll told jurors today in federal
court in Brooklyn, New York. “It is about telling lies over and
over again in order to grab millions of dollars of the bank’s
money.”  Dupree and Foley ran a scheme to defraud New York-based
Amalgamated, with $4.5 billion in assets, and C3 Capital LLC, a
private-equity investment firm, from January 2007 to July 2010,
according to prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch.  Amalgamated realized $16 million in losses due to the
crime, Woll told jurors today.  Basketball Player  Dupree played basketball for the University of  North
Carolina  at  Chapel Hill  and earned a master’s of business
administration from the Wharton School at the  University of
Pennsylvania .  Before starting GDC, he worked at former New York
investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., his lawyer said
today, without elaborating on his position. He was a vice
president of investment banking there between 1998 and 2002,
according to his LinkedIn page.  In 2008 at his Broad Street apartment in New York’s
financial district, Dupree hosted  Valerie Jarrett , an adviser to
 Barack Obama , for a $1,000-a-ticket fundraiser for the then-U.S.
presidential candidate, according to  Elle magazine .  U.S. District Judge Kiyo A. Matsumoto is presiding over the
trial.  Dupree has been in custody since March when he was arrested
again on new charges that he schemed to defraud Amalgamated.
Prosecutors said he took about $331,000 in customer payments to
a GDC subsidiary for his personal use.  Fictitious Sales  In the original scheme alleged, in August 2008 several GDC
units, with the parent as guarantor, reached an agreement with
Amalgamated that allowed them to borrow up to $21 million,
according to the indictment.  The defendants lied to Amalgamated about GDC’s accounts
receivable that secured the loan. They booked fictitious sales,
prematurely recognized sales, re-dated sales and failed to
reduce receivables after being paid by customers, according to
the indictment.  When Dupree was originally arrested in July 2010,
“Amalgamated was being repaid on time and had been every
month,” Roscoe C. Howard, one of his lawyers, told jurors
today. “And the bank was not complaining.”  Howard, a partner at  Andrews Kurth LLP  in  Washington , said
documents in the trial wouldn’t back up the government’s fraud
accusations.  “Fraud cases leave an audit trail,” he told the jurors.
“‘Show it to us if you’ve got it.’ But they can’t. Because it
doesn’t exist.”  Own Money  Howard also said Dupree was putting his own money into the
company and wasn’t living a lavish lifestyle.  “What the heck is Mr. Dupree getting out of this?” he
said. “Why isn’t he living in a luxury apartment? Why doesn’t
he have a fleet of planes?”  The defendants hid from Amalgamated the purchase of a
subsidiary, Image Lighting, Woll said. They added Image’s
$2 million in receivables to GDC’s books even though the former
owner was retaining them, the prosecutor said.  In 2009 the defendants told the bank GDC had $25.2 million
in accounts receivable when it had only $9 million, according to
court papers.  Amalgamated is the only union-owned bank in the U.S.,
according to its website. It said in September that  Ron Burkle ’s
Yucaipa Cos. and  Wilbur Ross ’s WL Ross & Co. would each gain a
20 percent stake investing $50 million each.  The defendants also tried to get about $5 million in
funding from C3 Capital by submitting reports that inflated
GDC’s accounts receivable, though C3 never gave any money the
government said.  Wore Wire  GDC told C3 that Image was one of its customers, Woll said.
After C3 said it wanted to talk to someone at Image, GDC gave it
the number of a disposable cell phone answered by a GDC
accountant, Emilio Serrano, posing as an Image employee, the
prosecutor said. Serrano eventually went to the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation  and wore a wire, taping conversations at GDC,
Woll said.  Foley, who has been out on bail, was GDC’s outside counsel
until he joined the company in March 2010, according to court
papers.  His lawyer, Joseph W. Ryan Jr., said in his opening
statement that Foley is married with two young children.  “Why would Mr. Foley join a firm to rip off a bank and
risk everything?” he told the jurors today. “Mr. Foley never
once submitted a false document to the bank to get money.”  Trial Delay  Another defendant, Rodney Watts, who was at different times
GDC’s chief financial officer and chief investment officer, in
October was granted a delay in his trial while he appeals a
denial of funds he said he’s owed to use as part of his legal
defense.  Three former GDC accountants, Serrano, Irma Nusfaumer and
Frank Patello, pleaded guilty and will testify at the trial,
Woll said.  Among GDC’s subsidiaries were lighting distributor JDC
Lighting, lighting maintenance company Unalite Electric &
Lighting and furniture distributor Hudson Bay Environments
Group, according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Dupree, 10-cr-627, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 