-- 
New York’s Trash Costs Climbing Decade After Fresh Kills Closed

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-12-06T21:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/new-york-s-trash-costs-climbing-decade-after-fresh-kills-closed.html
New York  City’s $1 billion annual
waste-disposal costs are rising and plans to find less costly
options have stalled a decade after Fresh Kills, the world’s
biggest landfill, was closed in 2001.  About 11,000 tons of municipal solid waste is created every
day in New York, most of which is hauled by truck to landfills
as far away as  South Carolina , according to a study released by
the New York League of Conservation Voters.  Community activists and concerns about a return to 1970s
incinerator pollution have frustrated the city’s efforts to find
new ways to handle the mountain of garbage, said Marcia Bystryn,
president of the environmental activist group.  People opposing development in their neighborhoods “are
the biggest impediment to a positive solution,” Bystryn said
today in an interview at a conference in New York. “Long-haul
transport is costly and going up, it’s bad for the environment
and relies on other states continuing to take it from us.”  Projects that would address some of these issues have run
into hurdles, according to the report. Budget concerns and
community opposition in  Manhattan  have stymied plans to spend
$363 million to retrofit transfer stations to load waste onto
barges.  Garbage passing through the stations would be shipped to
nearby waste-to-energy plants, including one owned by  Covanta
Holding Corp. (CVA)  in  Newark , reducing the estimated $300 million the
city spends annually on long-haul trucking.  “We’ve been trying to make these things community
friendly,” said Caswell Holloway, New York’s deputy mayor for
operations. “People don’t want these facilities in their
communities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 