-- 
Newmont Mine Falters on Bid to Turn Peru Lakes to Reservoirs

-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-12-06T21:25:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/newmont-mine-falters-over-plan-to-turn-peru-lakes-to-reservoirs.html
Newmont Mining Corp. , the world’s
second-largest gold producer, is finding its biggest growth
project runs through lakes and land belonging to some of the
poorest farmers in  Peru ’s northern Andes.  Work has stopped at the Minas Conga gold and copper project
four months after Newmont approved the $4.8 billion mine,
following two weeks of clashes between police and demonstrators,
who say the project threatens to deplete their water supply.  At stake in the dispute is Peru’s largest investment project,
a mine that would yield $2 billion of metal a year at current
prices in  Latin America ’s seventh-largest economy, a nation of 30
million where 7.3 percent are unemployed. The project shows how
competing water interests from communities and industry threaten
to derail the world’s next generation of mines and petroleum
resources.  “This is a core growth project,” said Adrian Day, president
of Adrian Day’s Asset Management in Annapolis,  Maryland , which
manages $190 million, including Newmont shares. “If it goes on
much beyond a few months, I would think it is going to be very
serious for Newmont.”  The mine is the largest component of Chief Executive Officer
Richard O’Brien’s $7 billion plan to boost gold output by as much
as 35 percent to 7 million ounces a year by 2017. If Newmont can’t
proceed with its plans for Conga, it may switch to projects in
 Nevada ,  Canada ,  Ghana ,  Indonesia  and Suriname, O’Brien said Nov.
30.  Billions a Year  Conga may yield 680,000 ounces of gold and 235 million pounds
of copper annually in its first five years. That represents annual
sales of about $2 billion based on current metal prices.  Omar Jabara, a spokesman for the  Greenwood Village , Colorado-
based company, declined to comment yesterday on when the project
may be restarted. Newmont will seek talks with communities opposed
to the project, he said in an e-mail.  Newmont, which owns 51 percent of Conga, is partnering with
Peruvian partner  Cia. de Minas Buenaventura SAA. (BVN)  The U.S. company
also controls Peru’s Yanacocha, South America’s largest gold mine,
which is forecast to produce 1.3 million ounces this year, down
from 3.3 million ounces in 2005.  Newmont is also developing a mine in Ghana and expanding
existing operations in North and South America,  Africa  and the
Asia Pacific region.  Gold Record  Conga’s suspension is “a negative but it’s not a game-
changer” for Newmont, said  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7
billion including Newmont stock at First Asset Management Inc. in
Toronto. “They can hit their growth targets with or without it.”  Newmont gained 1.2 percent to $67.15 at the close in  New York .
It has risen 9 percent this year, compared with the 10 percent
drop in the  Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver Index. (XAU)   Its output has  climbed (NEM)  for three successive years and was at
5.39 million ounces in 2010, equal to about 6.2 percent of global
mined output, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.
Newmont is the second-largest producer ranked by both sales and
output after Canada’s Barrick Gold Corp.  Gold is heading for an 11th straight annual increase. The
metal for immediate delivery in  London  has risen 20 percent in
2011 and traded Sept. 6 at a record $1,921.15 an ounce.  Emergency Powers  Peru approved an environmental-impact assessment for Conga in
October last year. The project will include the construction of
four reservoirs to replace four lagoons. The reservoirs will
increase supplies of clean water to surrounding communities,
according to Newmont’s Jabara.  Newmont’s plans failed to win over the farmers who started
protesting last month. They blocked roads and destroyed Newmont
installations. The demonstrations stopped after President Ollanta Humala on Dec. 4 granted the country’s armed forces extra powers
for 60 days, including the right to make arrests without warrants
in four provinces of the Cajamarca region.  The declaration of a state of emergency was important
“because the next step was setting the entire country ablaze,”
Carlos Galvez, chief financial officer at Buenaventura, said in a
telephone interview from Lima. “It’s very difficult to counter
political operators who are manipulating the population through
the use of fear.”  The government will seek to restart talks with local protest
leaders “as soon as possible,” said Daniel Abugattas, president
of Congress and a senior member of President Ollanta Humala’s Gana
Peru party.  “Social inclusion depends on the investment process
continuing,” Abugattas told reporters in Lima today. “I believe
Conga will go ahead, but it’s important that all precautions are
taken.”  Windfall Tax  The city of Cajamarca, which lies near the deposit 560
kilometers (350 miles) northwest of Lima, reopened its airport,
bus stations, schools and food markets after Humala sent 2,000
soldiers to guard highways, water and power companies and
government offices, according to footage broadcast today by Lima-
based Canal N.  Humala, a former renegade army officer who took over one of
 Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ’s mines a decade ago, was elected in June on
pledges to raise taxes and exert greater control over the  mining
industry .  Metals account for 60 percent of the country’s export revenue
and half its tax income, according to the National society of
Mining, Petroleum and Energy, an industry group. Humala signed a
law in September that will create a windfall tax on miners to
finance increases in public spending.  Conga will allow Peru “to carry out a great
transformation,” Humala said Nov. 16. “We reject the extreme
position of water or gold. We propose a sensible stance: water and
gold.”  Environmental Protests  Humala is supporting Conga because the project could be part
of as much as $40 billion of Peruvian mining expansions, O’Brien
said at a Nov. 10 gold conference organized by  RBC Capital Markets .  “You can’t just take the same size pie and redistribute,”
O’Brien said. “You need to grow the size of it and mining is a
key way to do that.”  The protests reflect the difficulties gold producers face in
building mines and expanding output, Day said. Environmental
protests by Peruvian farmers this year have halted projects by
mining companies including Southern Copper,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and
 Bear Creek Mining Corp. (BCM)   Previous Protests  Newmont was forced to shelve its Cerro Quilish gold project
in the country in 2004 after opposition from environmental
protesters. There were riots in 2000 after a spill of mercury,
which is used to extract gold from rock, near Yanacocha.  “This is not an easy business,” Day said. “It never has
been, but it seems to be getting progressively worse.”  Newmont can move some equipment that it bought for Conga to
other assets if the project faces significant delays, said Tom Winmill, president of Winmill & Co. and portfolio manager of the
Midas Fund in New York. Newmont has other mines and projects it
could invest in to meet its 7 million-ounce target, he said in a
telephone interview.  “I think it’s definitely doable,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  