-- 
Nordea Dividend Threatened Under New Capital Rules, Analyst Says

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-12-06T14:09:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/nordea-dividend-threatened-under-new-capital-rules-analyst-says.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s
largest lender, may have to cut its dividend and forgo its
profitability target to meet stricter capital rules set to be
implemented over the next three years, according to an Exane BNP
Paribas analyst.  “We expect Nordea will have to cut its dividend payout in
half to about 20 percent from 40 percent in order to be on the
safe side of these new capital demands,”  Andreas Hakansson  said
in an interview in Stockholm today.  Sweden, whose four biggest banks have combined assets of
more than four times the country’s gross domestic product, wants
lenders to target tougher  capital requirements  earlier than the
timescales set by the Basel Committee. The government argues
more rigorous standards are needed to ensure taxpayers are
protected from the risk of losses.  Nordea, Swedbank AB, Svenska Handelsbanken AB and SEB AB,
 Sweden ’s four biggest lenders, must target common equity Tier 1
capital of at least 10 percent of risk-weighted assets from
January 2013 and 12 percent in 2015, plus a countercyclical
buffer of up to 2.5 percent. Basel sets a 7 percent target for
most banks to be met by 2019.  Swedish banks now have enough core equity to satisfy the
government’s demands by 2013 under Basel III rules, Hakansson
said. Still, with the risk-weighting of mortgages at some of the
lowest levels in  Europe , Swedish policy makers are expected to
set a minimum floor, a move that will require lenders to hold
more capital to maintain core equity levels high enough to meet
stricter standards in 2015.  2012 Dividend  “The central bank has flagged that they will look into a
risk-weight floor on mortgages in the spring,” Hakansson said.
“We believe the level will be 20 percent. This will bring down
the core Tier 1 ratios with the largest impact on Swedbank and
Handelsbanken, the two largest mortgage lenders, but it will
impact the other banks, too.”  Nordea is expected to pay a dividend of 0.29 euro cents
next year, according to Bloomberg data. Hakansson said given
tougher rules, he expects the figure to be 0.15 cents and 0.16
cents in 2013. Nordea, which said it targets a 15 percent return
on equity in “a normalized macroeconomic environment,” may
only reach 10 percent, Hakansson said.  “We have three years to meet the demands recently
mentioned by the Swedish government and it’s hard to say in
great detail what the capital rules will actually look like by
that time,” said Erik Durhan, a Nordea spokesman. “We have the
ability to boost our own core equity through our own capital
generation so we feel comfortable with our current position. We
have for the last couple of years generated about 10 percent of
capital each year after dividend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 