-- 
Obama Says U.S. at ‘Make-or-Break Moment’ in Economy Debate

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/obama-says-u-s-middle-class-facing-make-or-break-moment-1-.html
President  Barack Obama , setting out
the themes that will carry into his re-election campaign, said
growing  income inequality  is damaging to the  U.S. economy  and
leaving millions of Americans feeling that “the basic bargain
that made this country great has eroded.”  Obama told an audience in solidly Republican Kansas that
the nation’s tax and regulatory systems must be based on “fair
play.” He criticized congressional Republicans, who he said
continue pushing a “brand of ‘you’re on your own’ economics”
that hasn’t worked in the past and isn’t true to American
values.  “This is the defining issue of our time,” Obama said in a
speech at a high school in Osawatomie, Kansas. “This is a make-
or-break moment for the middle class, and for all those who are
fighting to get into the middle class.”  The president’s message leading into the 2012 elections has
been taking shape since Obama unveiled a jobs plan in September
that made the payroll tax cut its centerpiece and called for
higher taxes on millionaires to pay the cost. Obama yesterday
sought to channel the populism of  Theodore Roosevelt , delivering
his speech in the town where the 26th U.S. president, a
Republican, gave his historic “New Nationalism” address in
August 1910, more than a year after he left office.  Roosevelt “knew that the free market has never been a free
license to take whatever you can from whomever you can,” Obama
said. “It only works when there are rules of the road to ensure
that competition is fair, open, and honest.”  Reminder to Voters  Bruce Buchanan , a professor of government at the  University
of Texas  who has written six books on presidential politics,
said that, while he doubted Obama’s “populist turn” will spur
action by Congress, “it’s good election-season politics to
remind voters who’s on their side and who isn’t.”  The president sought to portray his opponents as defending
the wealthy at the expense of middle-income Americans.  Along with cutting the  payroll tax  for another year, Obama
wants Congress to extend additional  unemployment insurance  and
the Senate to confirm his choice to lead the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau. Obama’s nomination of Richard Cordray to head
the agency set up under the Dodd-Frank Act regulating the
financial industry is being held up by Senate Republicans, who
want the bureau restructured.  Congressional Republicans, Obama said, “are fighting as
hard as they can” to make sure rules on financial institutions
passed in the wake of $700 billion financial-market bailout in
2008 aren’t enforced.  ‘Deficit of Trust’  The financial crisis and the battle over regulation “has
left a huge deficit of trust between Main Street and Wall
Street,” he said. “Gaping inequality gives lie to the promise
that’s at the very heart of America:  that this is the place
where you can make it if you try.”  He said the  income gap  “drags down the entire economy”
because many working families can’t afford what businesses are
selling.  Obama made reference to the  Tea Party  and Occupy  Wall
Street  movements, saying both are evidence of the
dissatisfaction felt by many. He said “there are some” who
want to “go back to the same policies that have stacked the
deck against middle-class Americans for too many years.”  “I believe that this country succeeds when everyone gets a
fair shot, when everyone does their fair share and when everyone
plays by the same rules,” Obama said. “Those aren’t Democratic
or Republican values; These aren’t 1 percent values or 99
percent values. They’re American values, and we have to reclaim
them.”  Need for Results  Charles Cook, publisher of the nonpartisan Cook Political
Report in  Washington , expressed doubt that a speech in Kansas
would do much for Obama’s legislation or his political fortunes.  “He needs results. We’re past the rhetoric,” Cook said.
“There’s a time when voters hit the mute button.”  While employers added 120,000 jobs to their payrolls last
month and  unemployment  fell to 8.6 percent, the recovery remains
fragile and jobs aren’t being created fast enough, according to
Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of Economic
advisers. Wage gains were limited, restraining consumers’
ability to boost spending that accounts for 70 percent of the
economy.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 2 percent annual rate
from July through September, less than projected and down from a
2.5 percent prior estimate, the Commerce Department reported
last month.  Kansas’s Economy  In Kansas, which has gone to the Democratic presidential
candidate only five times since Roosevelt gave his speech, the
state’s economic health has declined 9.2 percent since Obama
took office, according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of
States Index, which uses data on real estate, jobs, taxes and
stock prices to gauge the growth rate in 50 states and the
 District of Columbia . That ranks Kansas 40th in the nation.  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , among the leading
contenders for the Republican presidential nomination,
criticized Obama for urging higher levies on wealthy taxpayers
to pay for the cut in the  payroll tax .  “The right course for America is not to raise taxes on
people,” Romney said in an interview on the Fox News Channel
last night. “This president has no vision for our economy.”  Obama is trying “to appeal to working-class and middle-
class voters who otherwise are unhappy with the economy and the
lack of new jobs,” said Stu Rothenberg, editor of the
Rothenberg Political Report in Washington. “The president
simply can’t afford to have the election be an up-or-down vote
on his performance to date.”  In 1910, Roosevelt said that under the New Nationalism he
would use “the executive power as the steward of the public
welfare,” and that Congress should “represent all the people
rather than any one class or section of the people.”  “The New Nationalism puts the national need before
sectional or personal advantage,” Roosevelt said. “I stand for
the square deal” and “fair play.”  Roosevelt ran for president again in 1912 on the
Progressive ticket, garnering 27 percent of the national vote.
Democrat  Woodrow Wilson  won  Kansas  and the election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Osawatomie, Kansas, at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  