-- 
Obama Says U.S. to Weigh Nations’ Treatment of Gays in Issuing Foreign Aid

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-12-06T19:59:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/obama-says-u-s-to-weigh-nations-treatment-of-gays-in-issuing-foreign-aid.html
The Obama administration will weigh
how countries treat gays and lesbians in making decisions about
foreign aid, according to a presidential memorandum released by
the White House.  Laws prohibit same-sex sexual activity in many nations in
the  Middle East  and  Africa , and in two of the largest recipients
of U.S. aid, Pakistan and  Afghanistan . Homosexuality is
punishable by death in  Iran ,  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab
Emirates  and in some parts of Nigeria and Somalia.  “Gay rights are human rights,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in Geneva, presenting the policy in a speech to the
UN Human Rights Council.  President  Barack Obama  said in the document he is directing
all agencies engaged abroad to make sure U.S. diplomacy and aid
programs “promote and protect” the rights of gays and
lesbians.  “The struggle to end discrimination against lesbian, gay,
bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons is a global challenge,
and one that is central to the  United States  commitment to
promoting human rights,” Obama said in the memorandum.  ‘Deep Commitment’  Directing all agencies engaged abroad to promote the human
rights of homosexuals, bisexuals and transgender people reflects
“our deep commitment to advancing the human rights of all
people,” the president wrote.  “We are not talking about cutting aid or tying aid, but we
are talking about using all of our tools, including assistance,
to translate our principles into action,” Caitlin Hayden, a
spokeswoman for the National Security Council, said.  The memorandum said the U.S. aims to improve refugee and
asylum protections for gay, bisexual and transgender people. It
also calls for strengthening U.S. efforts to oppose foreign
governments criminalizing homosexuality, bisexuality or
transgender behavior.  U.S. foreign aid programs will increase government and
civil society engagement to promote gay rights, the memorandum
says. The State Department will lead an interagency group
tracking U.S. responses to “serious incidents that threaten the
human rights of LGBT persons abroad.” Agencies are to report on
their progress in six months, and then on an annual basis.  U.S. Commitment  Joe Solmonese , president of the gay rights advocacy group
 Human Rights Campaign  in Washington, said in a statement that
the presidential memorandum is important as the first U.S.
government strategy dealing with rights related to the sexual
orientation of people in other countries.  “Today’s actions by President Obama make clear that the
United States will not turn a blind eye when governments commit
or allow abuses to the human rights of LGBT people,” he said.  Republican presidential candidate  Rick Perry  called the new
policy “wrong,” “silly” and “out of touch” with American
values.  “Promoting special rights for gays in foreign countries is
not in America’s interests and not worth a dime of taxpayers’
money,” the Texas governor said in a statement.  Obama’s administration is “at war with people of faith in
this country,” Perry said. “Investing tax dollars promoting a
lifestyle many Americas of faith find so deeply objectionable is
wrong.”  Clinton’s Speech  In her speech in Geneva today, Clinton called on the global
community to act to ensure and protect LGBT rights.  “Being LGBT does not make you less human, and that is why
gay rights are human rights and human rights are gay rights,”
Clinton told the forum, echoing words she used in 1995 to make
the case for  women’s rights  at a United Nations forum in
Beijing.  While the issue of homosexuality is sensitive in some
countries, “we cannot delay acting,” Clinton said. The LGBT
community remains “an invisible minority” whose human rights
are “still denied in too many countries,” she said.  These men and women are arrested, beaten, terrorized, and
executed, Clinton said. Women are subjected to “corrective
rape.” Often they are denied chances to work or study.  The Obama administration has instructed embassies worldwide
to support LGBT rights and actively campaign against efforts to
criminalize gay relationships since the president took office,
said a State Department official who wasn’t authorized to speak
on the record.  Symbolic Weight  Clinton’s speech was the administration’s most expansive
articulation of the administration’s policy on the rights of gay
men and women, the official said.  The venue and timing of her remarks carries added symbolic
weight, the official said. Clinton spoke just days before Human
Rights Day on Dec. 10, which is when the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights, spearheaded in 1948 by former U.S. first lady
Eleanor Roosevelt, was approved.  Clinton urged leaders of countries where people are jailed,
beaten or executed for being gay to start “standing up for the
dignity of all citizens and persuading your people to do the
same.”  She spoke directly to LGBT men and women worldwide.  “People around the globe are working hard to support you
and bring an end to the injustices and dangers you face,” she
said. “That is certainly true for my country. You have an ally
in the United States.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Geneva at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  