-- 
Obama Effort Hides but Can’t Run From Affirmative Action: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-06T00:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/obama-effort-hides-but-can-t-run-from-affirmative-action-view.html
In 2003 the Supreme Court attempted
to define the circumstances under which a public university may
consider a student’s race as part of its admissions decisions.  In a matched pair of cases, the court  rejected  the
University of  Michigan ’s undergraduate admissions policy, which
used a point system that gave extra points to black students.
But it  endorsed  the policy of Michigan’s law school, which gave
“individualized consideration” to every applicant, treating each
in a “holistic” manner that considered race as a “factor” but
not a “determinative” factor.  Last week the Obama administration issued  guidelines 
(replacing those issued by the  Bush administration  in 2008) for
meeting the Supreme Court’s “holistic” test. Parallel guidelines
were issued for primary and secondary education. They highlight
the conflict that critics on both sides of the affirmative
action argument maintain has undermined the court’s reasoning
from the beginning: There is no way to square this circle.  If a factor may never be determinative, then it’s not a
factor at all. There is no difference in principle between fuzzy
arrangements to take race into account and explicit racial
quotas. Either you accept the need for and legitimacy of using
race as a factor in admissions decisions, or you don’t. We do.  Consider the Obama administration’s suggestion for how
schools can meet the  Supreme Court ’s “no quotas” standard: “An
institution could select schools ... based on their demographics
(e.g., their racial or socioeconomic composition) and grant an
admission preference to all students who have graduated from
those schools, regardless of the race of the individual
student.” In other words, according to these guidelines, it
would be perfectly acceptable to guarantee a place to all
students in every high school that is at least 75 percent black,
but it violates the Constitution to reserve even a single seat
exclusively for a black student.  According to the guidelines, you may design an admissions
program that explicitly uses factors such as socioeconomic
status or geography “or other race-neutral criteria” with the
explicit goal of “drawing students from different racial
backgrounds.” You also may explicitly use racial targets to
measure the success of these other factors in substituting for
race, and adjust them accordingly. But you may not have an
explicit racial quota.  In other words, you can’t say, “We want a student body
that’s at least 10 percent black, and we will favor blacks in
admissions until we reach that goal.” But you may say, “We want
a student body that is at least 10 percent black, and we will
favor people who live in predominantly black neighborhoods until
we reach that goal.”  With an African-American president, it’s getting harder to
maintain that affirmative action is needed to guarantee equal
opportunity for every racial minority. But affirmative action is
still necessary at most selective institutions. First, in order
to expand opportunity to applicants disadvantaged by race and
class, and second, to guarantee a diverse student body, which is
desirable for reasons apart from equal opportunity for any
individual.  When the children of alumni, offspring of wealthy donors,
star athletes and others benefit from explicit favoritism, it’s
absurd to suggest that favoritism toward black students is what
stands between us and a perfect meritocracy. Diversity of races,
along with other forms of diversity, is a perfectly valid goal
for institutions of all sorts. It’s too bad that the only way to
achieve it is to pretend that you’re not trying.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 