-- 
Lobbyists Have No Influence Over U.K. Policy, Government Says

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-12-06T13:43:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/lobbyists-have-no-influence-over-u-k-policy-government-says.html
Lobbying companies have no influence
over U.K. government policy, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
spokesman said after executives at Bell Pottinger, a unit
of  Chime Communications Plc (CHW) , were secretly recorded claiming to
have access to senior ministers.  Tim Collins, managing director of Bell Pottinger Public
Affairs, said he had worked for the  Conservative Party  with
Cameron, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and
Cameron’s chief of staff, Edward Llewellyn, and “there’s not a
problem getting messages through,” the  Independent newspaper 
reported, citing an investigation by the  Bureau of Investigative
Journalism .  “It simply isn’t true to say Bell Pottinger or any other
lobbying company has influenced government policy,” Cameron’s
spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters in London today.
“Clearly it’s in their interests to tell their clients they can
provide them with a service, and that’s what they appear to be
doing.”  Collins told undercover reporters posing as potential
clients from Uzbekistan that he had successfully got Cameron to
raise concerns over intellectual-property rights in a meeting
with Chinese premier  Wen Jiabao  during a visit in June, the
Independent reported. The request had come from Dyson Ltd., a
Bell Pottinger client. Collins was reported as saying, “he was
doing it because we asked him to do it,” in a reference to
Cameron, and because the issue was in the wider national
interest.  Cameron raised the subject because it is a concern for a
large number of U.K. companies, and if any company had a similar
issue they can contact the prime minister’s office direct
without the need for lobbying companies, Field said.  ‘Very Odd’  “It would be very odd if the prime minister went to a
meeting in  China  and didn’t raise intellectual property,” Field
said. “If a company has an issue and wants the government to
look at that issue they can phone someone up in the government.
If they want to spend money on lobbyists, that’s a matter for
them.”  Tim Bell, chairman of Chime Communications, said Bell
Pottinger had been the victim of “an attempt by unethical,
underhand deception to manufacture a story where none exists.”  “There is no public interest in this story,” he said in a
telephone interview. “There is absolutely no suggestion of any
impropriety, illegality or immoral behaviour. I am a great
supporter of the freedom of the press and a great believer in
self-regulation. This story does nothing to enhance either
argument.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  