-- 
Occupy Movement Targets Home Evictions in U.S. Day of Action

-- B y   A n d r e a   R i q u i e r ,   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-12-07T00:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/occupy-protest-movement-targets-home-evictions-in-u-s-day-of-action-.html
Occupy  Wall Street  protesters marched
through a neighborhood of  New York ’s  Brooklyn  borough to claim a
foreclosed property for a local family as part of a nationwide
day of demonstrations against  home seizures .  Behind a banner that said “Foreclose on banks, not
people,” about 300 people made their way to a house on Vermont
Street in Brooklyn’s East New York section, where Alfredo
Carrasquillo plans to live with his wife, Tasha Glasgow, and
their two children. The property had been vacant for three years
and is owned by Bank of America Corp., according to a statement
by Occupy Wall Street.  The East New York neighborhood had the highest  foreclosure 
rate in  New York City  last year, with 16.8 per 1,000 homes
receiving filings, according to a city comptroller’s office
 analysis  of data from RealtyTrac Inc. Similar demonstrations
were scheduled at more than 20 American cities as the Occupy
movement turned its attention to the U.S. housing crisis.  “There’s growing discontent with the way the foreclosure
process is working, and this is a very dramatic way of calling
attention to it,” Peter Marcuse, professor emeritus of urban
planning at  Columbia University  in New York, said yesterday.  More than 4 million homes in the U.S. have been taken over
by banks since 2006, according to RealtyTrac, a real estate data
firm in  Irvine ,  California .  Show of Support  In Brooklyn, demonstrators made several stops before
arriving at the Vermont Street home, tearing away the yellow
tape that blocked the entrance to one vacant property. On the
front of a boarded-up house at 399 Pennsylvania Ave., a sign
said “First-time homebuyers, $1,000 down.” As the group passed
Thomas Jefferson High School, people waved from windows in
support.  Carrasquillo, a community organizer for VOCAL-NY, and his
family were at the Vermont Street house when the marchers
arrived. The crowd passed “housewarming gifts” to the family
as volunteers began cleaning the house.  Gail Miller, a retired social worker, said she joined the
march to bring attention to policies that are “bailing out
banks, not people.”  “I have a home, I have a family, and I believe that having
a home and having a family ought to be a right for everybody,”
said Miller, a 70-year-old grandmother of nine who was born in
Brooklyn and lives in  Manhattan .  Blankfein’s Home  East New York suffered disproportionately during the
housing crisis because its black and Latino communities were
targeted by predatory subprime lenders, according to the
statement from the Occupy group. East New York natives include
composers George and Ira Gershwin and  Lloyd Blankfein , chairman
and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., who
grew up in a public-housing project in the neighborhood.  The Occupy Our Homes day of action comes almost a month
after Occupy Wall Street was evicted from Zuccotti Park in lower
Manhattan, the birthplace of the movement, where protesters
camped for about two months.  In the Los Angeles area, demonstrators from several
community groups marched toward a house in South Gate where Ana
Casas Wilson lives with her mother, her husband and their 17-
year-old son. Wilson, who has cerebral palsy, and her family are
refusing to leave the three-bedroom home while  Wells Fargo &
Co ., which owns the mortgage, moves to evict them.  ‘Don’t Give Up’  “My daughter tells me, don’t give up, Mom,” Becky Casas,
72, said in an interview. “I pray, pray, pray. I have faith
that he’ll help us,” she said, pointing her thumb toward the
sky, while a protester fastened a poster reading “Reclaiming
our houses” to the porch.  A representative with the Alliance of Californians for
Community Empowerment yelled a phone number into a microphone.
She said it belonged to Wells Fargo’s CEO,  John Stumpf , and
urged everyone with a cellphone to call. “It’s busy!” some in
the crowd shouted back.  Jason Menke , a spokesman for Wells Fargo in  Des Moines ,
 Iowa , said the Wilsons were reviewed for payment assistance
“multiple times and offered two separate modification options
prior to their  foreclosure sale  in July 2009. After the sale, we
reviewed the loan again and could not find an affordable
option.”  ‘I’ll Go to Jail’  As the crowd cheered outside the home, Ana Casas Wilson
said, “One person asked me what I would do if I had to go to
jail. Well, then, I’ll go to jail.” Demonstrators responded
with “We won’t let that happen, Ana.”  Los Angeles  County, where South Gate is located, led
California in foreclosure filings in October, with 11,498,
RealtyTrac data show.  The Occupy protesters were backed by housing advocacy
organizations including Take Back the Land, a Washington-based
group that fights homeowner evictions.  Max Rameau, co-founder of the five-year-old organization,
which helped plan today’s events, said energy from Occupy Wall
Street is giving groups like his a push and is likely to result
in many more actions.  “By the spring, you’ll be surprised by the amount of
organizations doing this,” Rameau said in an interview
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Riquier in New York at 
 ariquier@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  