-- 
Oil Rises a Fourth Day on Concern Iran Tension May Curb Supply

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-12-07T08:05:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/oil-trades-near-three-week-high-on-u-s-stockpile-drop-possible-iran-ban.html
Oil rose for a fourth day in New York
on concern global supplies of crude will shrink after the
European Union signaled it may ban imports from  Iran  and U.S.
stockpiles declined.  Futures climbed as much as 0.6 percent after settling at
the highest in three weeks. The EU may have reached an agreement
to limit shipments from Iran, OPEC’s second-largest producer,
EU Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  said yesterday. U.S.
crude inventories fell 5 million barrels to 334.1 million last
week, the lowest since January 2010, according to the  American
Petroleum Institute . Kuwait’s ruler dissolved parliament after
corruption allegations sparked anti-government protests.  “Prices are slowly ticking up on the back of potential
supply shocks,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney, who had forecast oil would trade from $80 to
$90 a barrel before tension increased in the Gulf. “The market
is still looking at what may or may not happen in terms of
embargoes on Iran from the West. There’s also the potential for
civil unrest in Kuwait.”  Crude for January delivery gained as much as 57 cents to
$101.85 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $101.78 at 3:58 p.m. Singapore
time. Yesterday, the contract added 29 cents to $101.28, the
highest since Nov. 16. Prices are up 11 percent this year after
climbing 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange rose as much as 55 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $111.36 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a premium of $9.50 to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate grade. The spread reached a record $27.88 on Oct.
14.  European Boycott  Oil is rising because of the tension between Iran and the
West, according to Seth M. Kleinman, European head of energy
research at Citigroup Inc. in  London . A boycott will probably be
timed for after the winter peak-demand period in the Northern
Hemisphere, he said in a report yesterday.  The threat to Iranian supplies will keep  Brent crude  above
$100 a barrel in the winter while concern Europe’s debt crisis
will worsen will cap prices at $120,  Gordon Kwan , head of energy
research at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in  Hong Kong , said in a
report today. Mirae kept its forecast for Brent to average $115
and West Texas $100 a barrel in 2012.  Oettinger indicated yesterday in Doha there may be
consensus in Europe to halt imports of Iranian oil. He didn’t
specify when a ban would be implemented.  Iran Sanctions  Iran pumped about 5 percent of the world’s crude last year,
according to BP Plc’s annual Statistical Review. The nation sits
on one side of the  Strait of Hormuz , through which about a fifth
of the world’s supply of the commodity is transported, said the
U.S.  Energy Department . The 27 member states of the EU accounted
for 16 percent of global oil demand.  The EU agreed to tighten sanctions on Iran at a meeting
Dec. 1 in Brussels because of its nuclear program, blacklisting
individuals and companies while falling short of authorizing an
immediate ban. The U.S. approved additional curbs on Iran’s oil
industry Nov. 21.  Political tensions in  Kuwait , which supplies about 3
percent of the world’s crude, are obstructing the country’s
progress, requiring “a return to the nation to choose its
representatives,” according to a decree issued by Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah yesterday and cited by state
news agency Kuna. It didn’t say when elections will be held.
Kuwait’s cabinet, headed by Sheikh Nasser Al-Mohammed Al-Sabah,
resigned Nov. 28 following months of protests calling for his
ouster and a change in government.  Saudi Arabia , U.S.  Saudi Arabia, the biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, boosted output last month to the
highest in more than three decades to meet demand, Ali al-Naimi,
the nation’s oil minister, said yesterday in Durban. OPEC’s 12
members are scheduled to meet Dec. 14 in Vienna.  Crude stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s largest oil
consumer, dropped 1.25 million barrels in the week ended Dec. 2,
according to the  median estimate  of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News before an Energy Department report today.  Gasoline  inventories are expected to have risen 875,000
barrels and distillate supplies probably climbed 1.15 million,
based on the survey. Yesterday’s report from the industry-funded
API showed gasoline stockpiles increased 5.97 million barrels
and distillates gained 1.68 million.  Oil’s advance in  New York  may stall as futures reach
technical resistance at $101.34 a barrel, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. This level is the higher of two leading-
span lines that define a so-called ichimoku cloud on the weekly
chart. Sell orders tend to be clustered near resistance levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  