-- 
Oil Recovers on Speculation Impact of S&P Ratings Reviews May Be Limited

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-12-06T13:19:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/oil-snaps-two-day-gain-as-s-p-threatens-european-credit-rating-downgrades.html
Oil traded near its highest in three
weeks in  New York , erasing earlier losses as a surge in German
manufacturing tempered concern that  Standard & Poor’s  may cut
the credit ratings of European nations.  West Texas Intermediate was little changed after recouping
a loss of 0.6 percent. German factory orders rose the most in 19
months in October after three straight declines. Standard &
Poor’s said yesterday it may strip  Germany  and  France  of their
AAA ratings as it weighs downgrades for 15 nations. U.S.
gasoline and distillate stockpiles rose last week while crude
supplies shrank, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “S&P’s announcement relates more to the outlook for a
rating downgrade than a real downgrade” said  Hannes Loacker , an
analyst at Raiffeisen AG in Vienna, who predicts WTI will
average $82 a barrel in the first quarter. “The market is
getting a bit more optimistic about recent rescue measures and
the willingness for solving the European debt crisis.”  Crude for January delivery advanced as much as 32 cents to
$101.31 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $101.03 at 1:17 p.m. London time.
Yesterday, the contract gained 3 cents to $100.99, the highest
settlement since Nov. 16. Futures are up 11 percent this year
after rising 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange rose 18 cents, or 0.2 percent, to
$109.99 a barrel. The European benchmark contract was at a $8.95
premium to New York-traded West Texas grade, compared with $8.82
yesterday and a record $27.88 on Oct. 14. Brent last closed at a
discount to WTI in August 2010.  German Manufacturing  Factory orders in Germany, adjusted for seasonal swings and
inflation, jumped 5.2 percent from September, when they dropped
4.6 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said in a statement
today. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey had forecast a 1
percent increase for October.  The euro area’s six AAA rated countries are among nations
to be placed on a negative outlook and their credit ratings may
be cut depending on the result of a summit of European Union
leaders on Dec. 9, S&P said yesterday.  The European Union accounted for 16 percent of global oil
demand last year, according to BP Plc’s annual Statistical
Review of World Energy. The U.S., the world’s biggest oil user,
consumed 19.1 million barrels a day, or 21 percent of the total.  U.S. Inventories  U.S.  gasoline  inventories probably climbed 1 million
barrels in the week ended Dec. 2 and supplies of  distillates ,
which include heating oil and diesel, increased 1.1 million
barrels, based on the median estimate of nine analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News before an Energy Department report tomorrow.  Crude  stockpiles probably fell 1 million barrels as
refineries ended seasonal maintenance and boosted run rates, the
survey shows. The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute 
in  Washington  will release its own supply data today.  U.S. crude will average $100 a barrel in 2012 and is more
likely to rise above that level than fall below it,
ConocoPhillips Chief Executive Officer  Jim Mulva  said.  “A $100 oil price certainly promotes investment by the
industry, and it’s also a price that doesn’t frustrate growth
and development in the economy,” he said in an interview today
in the Qatari capital Doha. “I see there is more potential for
upside and a higher price than downside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  