-- 
Oil Advances Amid Rebound in U.S. Equities, Tension Over Iran Exports

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-12-06T21:46:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/oil-declines-on-concern-that-european-nations-debt-will-be-downgraded.html
Oil climbed to a three-week high in
 New York  after equities rebounded and tension grew between the
West and Iran over the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program.  Crude rose 0.3 percent as stocks advanced on a Financial
Times report that the European Union was in talks to double the
size of its rescue fund and EU Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  signaled the bloc may have agreed to ban oil imports
from Iran. Prices retreated earlier as  Standard & Poor’s  said it
may cut European credit ratings.  “There’s been a strong correlation between stocks and the
oil market recently,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research
for IAF Advisors in Houston. “Both oil and the stock market are
waiting for signs of a resolution to the European debt crisis.”  Crude oil for January delivery rose 29 cents to $101.28 a
barrel at on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Nov. 16. Futures are up 11 percent this year.  Prices were little changed from the settlement after the
industry-funded American Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30
p.m. that U.S.  crude-oil inventories  fell 5.04 million barrels
to 334.1 million last week. January oil was up 16 cents to
$101.15 a barrel in electronic trading at 4:34 p.m.  Brent oil for January rose $1, or 0.8 percent, to end the
session at $110.81 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange.  Oil rose in the last hour of floor trading, gaining with
U.S. equities on the report that negotiators may keep the euro
zone’s existing 440 billion-euro ($590 billion) bailout fund
when a new 500 billion-euro facility comes into force in
mid-2012. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 0.4 percent.  S&P Ratings  Oil fell earlier after S&P said the European Financial
Stability Facility may lose its top  credit rating  if any of the
bailout fund’s six guarantors face a downgrade from AAA. A
summit on the EU debt is scheduled for Dec. 9 in Brussels.  “A disappointing resolution to the big end-of-the-week
meeting in Brussels would probably give the market a leg down,”
said  Michael Wittner , the head of oil-market research at Societe
Generale SA in New York.  Futures rebounded when Oettinger said he believed there was
consensus in Europe for a ban on importing Iranian oil. He was
at the World Petroleum Congress in Doha, Qatar. He didn’t
specify when the EU might implement a ban.  The EU agreed to tighten sanctions on  Iran  at a Dec. 1
meeting in Brussels, blacklisting certain individuals and
companies while falling short of authorizing an immediate ban.
The U.S. approved additional curbs on Iran’s oil industry on
Nov. 21.  ‘Might Be Waiting’  “The statements from Oettinger are a signal that there
will be a consensus to ban the import of Iranian oil imports,”
said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in
 Chicago . “The Europeans might be waiting until the end of
winter when demand eases.”  An Energy Department report tomorrow will probably show
that U.S. crude oil stockpiles decreased by 1.25 million barrels
last week, according to the median of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, rose 1.15 million barrels, and
gasoline  supplies  gained 875,000 barrels, the survey showed.  Saudi Arabia  pumped more than 10 million barrels of oil a
day last month, and is prepared to supply a similar amount this
month if needed, said Ali al-Naimi, the country’s oil minister.
The desert kingdom is the biggest and most influential member of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which meets
on Dec. 14 in Vienna to set output targets for early 2012.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 400,710
contracts as of 4:35 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 452,704
contracts yesterday, 31 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.33 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  