-- 
Olam, Rainforest Alliance Launch $1 Million Ghana Cocoa Project

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-12-06T13:05:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/olam-rainforest-alliance-launch-1-million-ghana-cocoa-project.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  and
certifying group Rainforest Alliance will invest $1 million over
three years to produce sustainable cocoa in  Ghana , the world’s
second-largest grower.  Sustainable development implies meeting the needs of the
present without compromising the ability of future generations
to meet their own needs, according to the  United Nations . Some
farmers have cut forests to grow cocoa, reducing soil fertility
and contributing to water contamination, New York-based
Rainforest Alliance said on its  website .  The two organizations will invest in farmer training,
aiming to double yields of cocoa in three years, Olam said. The
money will also finance the planting of 100 hectares (247 acres)
of native trees, helping restore local forests.  “This project is about training people, educating them and
making sure there is an understanding not only about the way
they can improve yields, but also making them a bit more aware
of the environment,” Gerry Manley, director and global head for
cocoa at Singapore-based agricultural commodities trader Olam,
said today by phone in  London .  Deforestation in Ghana swelled by an average 2.1 percent a
year between 2000 and 2010, up from 2 percent the previous
decade, data from the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization
show. The country had 4.94 million hectares of forests last
year, according to the data.  The project is “an ideal opportunity to stop the
deforestation of this sensitive area so that we can protect
biodiversity in standing forests,” Tensie Whelan, president of
Rainforest Alliance, said in an e-mailed statement.  More Cocoa  The world will require an additional 1 million metric tons
of cocoa by 2020 to meet demand, according to  Barry Callebaut
AG (BARN) , the world’s largest maker of bulk chocolate.  Prices have fallen 16 percent in London and 20 percent in
 New York  over the past month on speculation supplies will
outpace demand for a second year. The surplus this season will
be 32,000 tons, London-based broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd.
estimates. Production exceeded consumption by 434,000 tons last
season, it said.  “There was a very big surplus last year and that will have
an effect on price but we still see strong demand for cocoa,”
Manley said.  Olam and Rainforest Alliance intend to increase the
population of trees that shade the beans in Ghana’s cocoa
communities, the organizations said. The beans can be cultivated
under the shade of native trees, helping maintain a landscape
similar to natural forest, the certifying company said.  Climate Change  Risk  “This will also mitigate the risk of climate change and
warming environments, so that we are protecting the moisture
levels within the soil to improve yields,” Chris Brett, head of
corporate responsibility and sustainability at Olam, said by
phone in London.  The project will start with training of 2,000 farmers in 13
communities and will expand. Growers will be able to certify
their cocoa under the Rainforest Alliance scheme and benefit
from the premium paid in the market for such certification,
Manley said.  Olam sold 18,280 tons of Rainforest Alliance-certified
beans in their last financial year ended June 30, according to
Olam. Olam and Rainforest Alliance already have partnerships in
 Ivory Coast ,  Indonesia  and  Nigeria  and there are plans for
another in  Togo , Manley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 