-- 
Olympus Probe Figure Sells Boca Home to Ex-Wife for $10, Heads to Caymans

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-12-07T01:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/olympus-probe-figure-sagawa-headed-to-caymans-after-divorce-relative-says.html
Hajime Sagawa, the Japanese banker
whose firms got $687 million in fees as part of  Olympus Corp.’s 
$2.1 billion buyout of Gyrus Group Plc, has left Florida for the
 Cayman Islands , his brother-in-law said, a month after Sagawa
divorced his wife and sold her their Boca Raton home for $10.  Sagawa hasn’t made a statement since ousted President
 Michael Woodford  disclosed Tokyo-based Olympus paid fees equal
to 36 percent of the value of the 2008 deal to two companies
connected with the Japanese banker. The camera and medical
device maker used the payments as part of a scheme to hide 117.7
billion yen ($1.5 billion) in losses, according to the findings
of a monthlong independent probe of the company’s accounts that
was released yesterday.  “He’s down in the Cayman Islands,” Gary Nevis, Sagawa’s
brother-in-law, said in a Dec. 1 telephone interview, citing a
conversation he had last week with his sister, Sagawa’s ex-wife.  Criminal investigators in the U.S., U.K. and Japan are
probing fees and other payments made by Olympus. Woodford was in
 New York  last week to meet with U.S. prosecutors and the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation . Sagawa has also met with the FBI,
according to the  Wall Street  Journal. He hasn’t been charged
with wrongdoing.  “There were outside collaborators” who helped Olympus set
up a web of offshore entities and who structured takeovers to
channel money through these to cancel out investment losses that
dated back decades, the panel report said. The advisers did so
“knowing they were illegal,” it said.  Caymans, Snapper  Axes America LLC, a New York-based brokerage that Sagawa
operated, served as an adviser to Olympus on the Gyrus deal.
Axam Investments Ltd., a Cayman Islands-based fund of which
Sagawa was a director, got all but $17 million of the $687
million in fees. Axam was, in fact, funneling money back to
Olympus through five other companies, according to the report.  Sagawa’s ex-wife, Ellen Sagawa, is still living in  Boca
Raton , Florida, in the 7,217 square-foot, canal-front house that
the couple co-owned until October. She declined to comment Dec.
4 on her husband’s whereabouts. A 32.6-foot yacht named
“Snapper” registered to her was docked behind the home.  Nevis said his sister provided no other details as to her
husband’s location. Sagawa’s neighbors in Boca Raton said they
had seen Ellen Sagawa in recent days strolling through the
neighborhood without her husband.  Sagawa may have been living in the Caymans at an oceanfront
condominium along Seven Mile Beach in 2006. According to
shipping records, a package was sent under his name to Boca
Raton that year from the residence on Snooze Lane. A woman
answering the door there yesterday said Sagawa hasn’t been
living there since at least February.  Divorce Filed  Sagawa and his wife filed for divorce in  Florida  Oct. 31,
with Ellen Sagawa retaining $9.9 million of the couple’s assets
and Sagawa keeping $1.5 million, according to court records. On
Oct. 25, Sagawa transferred the Boca Raton home to his wife for
$10, according to real estate records.  Nevis said that his sister last week didn’t mention that
the couple had divorced.  “She didn’t mention a divorce or anything like that,”
Nevis said. “She didn’t indicate there were problems.”  Nevis, who sells Lindal Cedar Homes in  Arizona , said he
hadn’t visited the Sagawas in Florida for several years. He said
Sagawa was “a friendly man” who on Wall Street earned “a
whole heck of a lot more than I ever did.”  From 1981 to 1996, Sagawa worked at Nomura Securities
International Inc., Sanyo Securities America Inc. and
PaineWebber Inc. before starting Axes America in 1998, according
to regulatory filings.  Herman Moskowitz, a Hollywood, Florida-based accountant who
has done work for another Sagawa firm, and Clifford Hark, a
lawyer in  Palm Beach , Florida, who has also worked for Sagawa,
declined to discuss the banker.  Olympus Adviser  Beginning in 2006, Axes America served as adviser to
Olympus in its acquisition of Gyrus. Sagawa was president of
Axes America and part-owner of an affiliated firm, Axes (Japan)
Securities, according to the firm’s website from 2008. Sagawa
was also a director of Axam Investments, according to a report
on the Gyrus transaction by PricewaterhouseCoopers Legal LLP,
which was made public by Woodford.  Axam was beneficiary of an assignment agreement on June
2008 under which it became entitled to rights previously held by
Axes America. It was paid a total of $670 million from Olympus
in September 2008 and March 2010, according to the panel report.  Neither Axes America nor Axam is still in business. In the
Gyrus transaction, Axes America hired  Perella Weinberg  Partners
LP as its sub-adviser, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers. Kara
Findlay, a spokeswoman for Perella Weinberg, has declined to
comment on the Olympus case. Axes America paid Perella $8.57
million, it said in its final liquidation report to the
Securities and Exchange Commission in March 2009.  Going Wrong  Olympus began making financial investments after 1985 as a
strong yen hurt  operating profit , the panel said. When  Japan ’s
stock-market bubble burst at the end of 1989, the company
purchased high-risk products and structured bonds in an effort
to recoup the loss. In late 1990, the company had a little less
than 100 billion yen of unrealized losses.  Olympus is “cooperating fully with investigators”
including the Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office, the
Tokyo Metropolitan Police and Japan’s Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission, spokesman Tsuyoshi Kitada said Dec. 5,
declining to elaborate further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in George Town, Grand Cayman,
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 