-- 
Olympus Panel to Disclose Findings of Probe Into Acquisitions, Cover-Up

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-12-06T03:14:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/olympus-panel-to-disclose-probe-into-acquisitions-cover-up.html
An  Olympus Corp. (7733)  panel today will
disclose the findings of its investigation into a series of
acquisitions by the camera maker, which admitted hiding losses
with inflated takeover fees.  Tatsuo Kainaka, a former Supreme Court judge and a Tokyo
superintendent prosecutor, will meet the press in Tokyo at 3
p.m., according to a faxed statement from the committee. Other
members of the six-person committee formed Nov. 1 also will
attend.  The news conference comes seven weeks after the dismissal
of former Chief Executive Officer Michael C. Woodford, who
questioned $1.4 billion in takeover costs, including fees paid
in the $2.1 billion takeover of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008. The
world’s biggest endoscope maker admitted last month that former
Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa and senior aides colluded to hide
losses dating to the 1990s.  The committee has interviewed previous executives,
including Woodford, Kikukawa and Hisashi Mori, an executive vice
president dismissed over his part in the schemes.  Olympus shares, which declined to their lowest in 36 years
on Nov. 11 after the company admitted hiding losses, rose 8.6
percent to 1,185 yen at the 11 a.m. trading break in  Tokyo .  Dec. 14 Deadline  Woodford, 51, resigned as director Dec. 1 in the first step
of his campaign to take control of the company from the board
that fired him Oct. 14. Kikukawa, former Executive Vice
President Hisashi Mori and auditor Hideo Yamada all quit Nov. 25,
a day before company directors were due to meet the president
they fired.  Olympus is also forming two teams, led by President Shuichi Takayama, to improve corporate governance and business structure,
the company said last week.  The company still faces possible delisting from the Tokyo
Stock Exchange unless it reports earnings by a Dec. 14 deadline.
Olympus also is being investigated by the Tokyo District Public
Prosecutors Office and other authorities, and the officials
involved in hiding losses may face criminal charges.  The company is “cooperating fully with investigators,”
spokesman Tsuyoshi Kitada said yesterday. He declined to
elaborate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  