-- 
Olympus Report Clears Way for Clean Sweep of Board That Failed to Stop Rot

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-12-07T04:21:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/olympus-management-rotten-to-the-core-panel.html
Olympus Corp (7733) . “yes men” who failed
to stop senior managers spending 135 billion yen ($1.7 billion)
in a cover-up of losses over more than a decade should be
removed, according to the findings of a monthlong probe.  Three former chairmen of the Japanese camera maker and
three senior aides were “rotten to the core,” according to the
report released yesterday by an independent panel. Others
“involved in the fraudulent accounting one way or the other,
and auditors who did nothing when the auditing firm pointed out
the issues” in 2009 “should be fully eliminated,” it said.  Michael Woodford , whose dismissal as Olympus president on
Oct. 14 sparked the inquiry, and shareholders have called for a
revamp of the board and management. The scale of the fraud and
failure of the company’s corporate governance structure to stem
it eroded all Japanese companies’ credibility and highlighted
the need to break from a tradition where deference to superiors
prevents employees from “rocking the boat,” the report said.  “The entire board should be changed as they all share the
blame,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million
in Tokyo at  Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. (8624)  “The managers
may have been foul, but Olympus’s main business is good. If the
board changes, it’s still possible for the company’s shares to
regain this year’s highs.”  Shedding Value  Olympus dropped  for the first time in seven days of  Tokyo 
trading, falling as much as 9.2 percent before trading 6.6
percent lower at 1:07 p.m. local time.  The company has shed more than half its market value since
Woodford was fired, as it admitted using offshore vehicles to
hide investment losses dating back decades and the Tokyo Stock
Exchange threatened to delist the shares.  Investors including David Herro, chief investment officer
at Chicago-based Harris Associates LP, said there may now be
less of a delisting threat following the report’s findings.
Harris held a 3.9 percent stake in Tokyo-based Olympus as of
Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I must give more credit to the panel than I would’ve
thought I’d be doing,” Woodford said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “For the remit that it had, it’s very
clear that it’s condemning.”  Olympus said in a statement it accepts the panel’s report
and that it will make all efforts to ensure it isn’t delisted.
An internal committee will seek to clarify which officials still
at Olympus were responsible for covering up the losses,
according to a memo from President Shuichi Takayama, a copy of
which was given to Bloomberg News.  Caymans Connection  Yesterday’s panel report traced a global network of mostly
Japanese advisers who used offshore companies in the Cayman
Islands and  British Virgin Islands  to hide impaired financial
securities and channel funds to conceal those losses.  The company began making financial investments after 1985
as a strong yen hurt  operating profit , the panel said. When
Japan’s stock-market bubble burst at the end of 1989, it
purchased high-risk products and structured bonds in an effort
to recoup the loss. In late 1990, the company had a little less
than 100 billion yen of unrealized losses, and this swelled to
118 billion yen by 2003, it said.  Masatoshi Kishimoto, 75, who was company president for
eight years from 1993, and his successor Tsuyoshi Kikukawa were
among former executives at Tokyo-based Olympus involved in the
cover-up, according to the report. Hisashi Mori, a former
executive vice president, and Hideo Yamada, a company auditor,
were also implicated. They have now left the company.  Failed Governance  The panel, chaired by former Supreme Court Judge Tatsuo
Kainaka, carried out 189 interviews, including ones with the
former officials. Repeated attempts by Bloomberg News to reach
Olympus executives involved in the schemes at their homes have
failed.  The report found failings at all levels in the corporate
governance structure, including the auditing of accounts by the
local affiliates of KPMG LLP and Ernst & Young LLP.  “There were a lot of yes men among the directors,” it
said. “The board had become a mere formality,” while the
outside directors were “not appropriate.”  Woodford, who questioned takeover costs including fees paid
to a now-defunct  Cayman Islands  fund in the $2.1 billion
takeover of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008, resigned as a director Dec.
1 in the first step of a campaign to take control from the board
that fired him.  “Not a single director stood up in support of my efforts
to expose what had taken place,” Woodford said in an e-mailed
statement last night. “Olympus and its shareholders would have
incurred far less damage if the current directors had acted
appropriately.”  Cayman Link  Olympus paid Cayman-based Axam Investment Ltd. $670 million
in fees as part of the Gyrus buyout. Hajime Sagawa, who was a
director of Axam, has left  Florida  for the Cayman Islands, his
brother-in-law said in a Dec. 1 interview. Sagawa divorced his
wife a month ago and sold her their Boca Raton home for $10.
Sagawa, who hasn’t made a statement since Axam’s role in the
Olympus scandal was revealed, and Akio Nakagawa were named by
the panel as key figures who aided Olympus to structure its
loss-hiding schemes.  “He’s down in the Cayman Islands,” Gary Nevis, Sagawa’s
brother-in-law, said in a Dec. 1 telephone interview, citing a
conversation he had last week with his sister, Sagawa’s ex-wife.  Investigators in  Japan , the U.S. and U.K. are still probing
the transactions. The panel said it found no evidence that money
was funneled to criminal gangs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  