-- 
Homex Advances Most in Five Weeks on 2012 Sales Forecast

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-12-06T22:21:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/homex-heads-for-biggest-jump-since-october-on-sales-projections.html
Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) , Mexico’s
largest homebuilder, posted its biggest gain in five weeks as
optimism mounted that the company’s business will improve after
it published 2012 forecasts.  Shares jumped 7.8 percent to 29.17 pesos at the close of
trading in Mexico City, the biggest gain since Oct. 27. The
benchmark IPC index fell 0.1 percent today.  Homex expects 2012 sales to rise 37 percent to 39 percent,
including contracts with the federal government to build
prisons, the company said after the close of trading yesterday.
The projected pickup is buoying investor confidence after
homebuilders were the biggest losers on the IPC this year, said
Jorge Lagunas, who oversees about $200 million as a  money
manager  at Mexico City-based Grupo Financiero Interacciones and
said he bought Homex shares today.  “Homex is a good a company that has aggressive growth
plans for the coming year, and the market is now realizing it,”
Lagunas said.  Mexican homebuilders closed at their lowest levels in two
years on Nov. 25 on concern delays in government subsidies were
leading to inventory backlogs and cash shortages.  The  Habita (HABITA)  index of six Mexican homebuilders has dropped 57
percent in 2011.  Corp. GEO SAB (GEOB) , Mexico’s second-largest homebuilder, has led
declines on the country’s benchmark gauge, losing 63 percent
this year. Homex lost 58 percent this year, making it the second
worst performer on the IPC.  Homex said in an Oct. 24 statement that delays in one
subsidy program, known as the 2x1 program, “particularly”
affected operations in the third quarter. Under the 2x1 program,
aimed at helping low-income families purchase homes, the federal
government will provide one peso of subsidy money for every two
pesos pledged by local governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  