-- 
Prince Albert Joins Climate Talks Amid Concern

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-12-06T00:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/monaco-s-prince-albert-joins-climate-talks-as-eu-voices-concern-on-china.html
The European Union voiced the first
sign of discord at United Nations climate talks as  Monaco ’s
Prince Albert II and Ethiopian President Melez Zenawi join
envoys working on a plan to fight global warming.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard , following a
meeting with officials from Beijing, said she needed more
information about China’s pledge to cap  greenhouse gases  after
2020. The Chinese proposal is aimed at coaxing industrial
nations to renew the only treaty limiting fossil fuel emissions.  “I still believe that China holds one of the central keys
to unlock the situation,” she said in an e-mailed statement
last night. “The central issue remains how China will follow us
and when. Here, more clarifications and further dialogue is
needed.”  After nine days of meetings in the South African port city
of Durban, diplomats from 192 nations have made little progress
on how to renew the  Kyoto Protocol , whose limits on fossil fuel
emissions lapse at the end of 2012. China wants industrial
nations to sign up to further commitments under the pact. The
U.S. never ratified the accord, and the EU says it will extend
Kyoto only if all major emitters adopt carbon goals.  “Between the U.S. position and the China position there
are slim hopes we could actually get to agreement on launching
an immediate process toward a legally binding outcome,” said
Elliot Diringer of the Center for Energy and Climate Solutions
in Arlington, Virginia. “What might be a possible common
ground, we hope, is that parties at least agree to the objective
of binding outcomes.”  Leaders Arrive  At least 12 heads of state including leaders from Fiji to
Gabon have arrived in Durban and speak to the meeting this
afternoon. Todd Stern, the head of the U.S. delegation, will
meet his Chinese counterpart Xie Zhenhua to discuss when
developing nations should take on mandatory targets for limiting
greenhouse gas emissions.  The two biggest polluters account for more than 40 percent
of the world’s fossil fuel emissions and are at the heart of an
impasse over how to adopt a legally binding treaty on limiting
 climate change .  China, India and  Brazil  are pushing industrial nations for
a second set of cuts under the pact. Japan, Russia and  Canada 
say they won’t sign up for a second commitment period. The U.S.
never ratified the treaty, saying developing nations that
weren’t set targets under Kyoto should restrict their fumes.  China’s Plan  Yesterday Xie, from the National Development and Reform
Commission, said China would take on targets after 2020 if five
conditions were met, starting with the “most important”
decision by the EU and other industrial nations to extend Kyoto.  That triggered an “excited buzz” among delegates hopeful
of reaching some sort of agreement in Durban, said  Christiana Figueres , the UN diplomat leading the talks.  “If China moves, we’ll be able to see the signing of the
Kyoto Protocol, we’ll be able to get the rest of the world
committed to a road map which gets us to a single legally
binding overarching agreement, so China’s position is absolutely
critical,” U.K. Secretary of State for Energy and Climate
Change  Chris Huhne  said in an interview in Durban.  In a post on her Twitter account yesterday evening,
Hedegaard said, “sometimes messages are more progressive at
public press conferences than in negotiation rooms.”  Targets and Carbon  Xie told reporters yesterday that in addition to the Kyoto
target, he’d require advances on climate aid and low-carbon
technology sharing. The comments were the fullest recitation yet
of  China ’s position, which previously was to avoid any talk of
it adopting a binding target.  “China is beginning to answer the question of how do we
sign up to the second commitment period,” South African Foreign
Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, who is presiding over the talks
for the host nation, told reporters. “It is laying its cards on
the table. Other negotiators will be laying the cards on the
table and work then gets escalated. And that is what makes us
hopeful we are moving in the right direction.”  Stern, the U.S. envoy on climate change, told reporters
that all countries must be involved in a global deal that
applies the “same legal force” to each country with “no trap
doors” and “no conditionality.”  ‘Major Players’  “China has not been willing to do the kind of legally
binding agreement that I’m talking about” in the past, Stern
said. “In order for there to be a legally binding agreement
that makes sense, all the major players are going to have to be
in.”  The U.S. never ratified the Kyoto Protocol limiting
pollution in industrial nations, and President Barack Obama’s
carbon cap-and-trade plan failed to pass congress.  J.M. Mauskar, the Indian government official leading his
nation’s delegation at United Nations climate talks, yesterday
rejected the EU plan of a road map leading to a new climate deal
as a “quid-pro-quo.”  “ India  has really taken over from China as the key block
in the process,” Mark Lynas, climate change adviser to
Maldivian President Mohamed Nasheed said in an interview in
Durban. “India and the U.S. seem to have formed an alliance of
inaction. They’re both happy to filibuster the process for
another 10 years.”  Lynas said deals in Durban could be reached on issues that
“matter in the real world,” including technology, adaptation,
finance and forests. “Unfortunately it looks like being held
hostage to Kyoto.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Durban,  South Africa  at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Durban, South Africa at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  