-- 
Hong Kong’s Office Demand to Slow, Jones Lang LaSalle Says

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-12-06T08:17:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/hong-kong-s-office-demand-to-slow-jones-lang-lasalle-says-1-.html
Hong Kong ’s prime office demand is
expected to slow after rents climbed 16 percent in the first 11
months of this year, according the world’s second-biggest
publicly traded commercial-property broker.  There’s “temporary pressure” on rental in the city’s core
office district, Gavin Morgan, deputy managing director for Hong
Kong at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc., said at a briefing today,
adding that any rental correction will probably be “short-
lived” because of tight supply.  The city dropped out of the top five places for real estate
investment in the Asia-Pacific region for the first time in five
years, according to a PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Urban Land
Institute report today, which ranked Hong Kong 14th out of 21
among the region’s top investment destinations for 2012.  Prime office rents in Hong Kong have risen 60 percent since
July 2009 as financial services companies expand amid increasing
corporate finance activities by Chinese companies, according to
CBRE Group Inc. Grade A office rents in Hong Kong reached $213.7
per square foot a year as of June, the costliest in the world,
according to Colliers International.  “Many interviewees believe Hong Kong is a fully priced
market,” Patrick Phillips, chief executive officer of the
Washington-based Urban Land Institute, said in a media briefing
in Hong Kong today. The shortage of land and high development
costs means there’s “limited upside potential.”  Singapore was ranked the region’s top property investment
destination for 2012 in the report, followed by  Shanghai , Sydney,
Chongqing in  China  and the capital Beijing, he said.  Rental Decline  Office rents in Hong Kong may fall as much as 40 percent
over the next two years if China goes through an economic “hard
landing,” according to a Barclays Capital Research report in
October. A hard landing would cause vacancy rates to rise to as
much as 8 percent by 2013, while rents may fall 10 percent to 15
percent in a soft landing, it said.  The city’s housing transactions probably slid 37 percent to
85,000 this year, according to Joseph Tsang, managing director
for Jones Lang LaSalle, and may dip to 80,000 next year. Luxury
home prices and rents may fall between 5 percent and 10 percent
in 2012, while mass-market housing values could decline 10
percent to 15 percent, he said.  Hong Kong’s prime rents for shopping malls climbed 12
percent in the first 11 months this year, while prime street
retail rents rose 19 percent during the same period, Jones Lang
LaSalle said. The city’s retail rents are expected to “stay
strong” in 2012 as Hong Kong remains a key market for
international brands, said Tom Gaffney, head of retail for Hong
Kong at Jones Lang LaSalle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  