-- 
Monti Says Little Margin to Change Budget Plan in Parliament

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-12-06T21:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/monti-says-little-margin-to-change-budget-plan-in-parliament.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said the Parliament has little time and little margin to modify
his 30 billion-euro ($40 billion) budget package.  “Parliament is sovereign, but time is short and the margin
for maneuver is very limited,” Monti said today in an interview
on the “Porta a Porta” talk show on state-owned RAI
television.  One area where there government might show flexibility
would be on how many pensions will be stripped of cost-of-living
adjustments. Labor Minister Elsa Fornero said on a separate
television program more pensions could be protected from the
change if the funds could be recovered by other means.  It is “premature” to decide whether to call a confidence
vote, which stakes the government’s survival on the outcome, to
speed passage of the package in the legislature, Monti said. The
premier presented the measures to the Parliament in  Rome 
yesterday and a vote is due this month.  The package includes an overhaul of the pension system,
restoration of a property tax on primary residences, tax breaks
for companies hiring women and young people, higher levies on
 luxury goods  and measures to curb  tax evasion . Monti said the
package will help tame the euro-region’s second-biggest debt and
restore investor confidence in  Italy . Italy’s 10-year bond yield
fell the most in four months yesterday after Monti presented the
measures.  ‘Serious Sacrifices’  “I have asked Italians to accept serious sacrifices,” he
said. “But the alternative wasn’t to go ahead without
sacrifices. There was the real risk that the state couldn’t be
paid for, that salaries and pensions wouldn’t be paid. We don’t
have to look very far to see what could have happened. What
happened in  Greece  could have happened here.”  The government will not raise personal income tax, though
it will charge 46 percent on severance packages of more than 1
million euros, more than the top tax rate of 43 percent, Monti
said.  Monti also plans to create a  task force  to come up with
additional measures to reduce the cost of politics in Italy, a
country with  Europe ’s largest and best paid legislature. There
are almost 1,000 lawmakers in the Italian Senate and Chamber of
Deputies, almost twice as many as in the U.S., which has a
population five times that of Italy’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  