-- 
Thoratec May Entice J&J, Medtronic, Abbott, Oracle Says

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-12-06T21:15:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/thoratec-may-entice-j-j-medtronic-abbott-bids-oracle-s-feinberg-says.html
Thoratec Corp. (THOR) , maker of implantable
heart pumps, may attract bids from  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , Medtronic
Inc. or  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  if the company seeks a buyer, said
Oracle Investment Management Inc., a Thoratec investor.  Thoratec needs the resources of a bigger company to reach
its potential in a market for heart-failure patients that may
reach $10 billion in annual sales, Larry Feinberg, Oracle’s
founder, said in a telephone interview today. The Greenwich,
Connecticut-based hedge fund, controller of 3.12 million
Thoratec shares, wrote to the company’s board yesterday urging
it to retain an investment bank for an auction.  Thoratec, with a market value of about $1.88 billion, would
be an “undeniable” fit for makers of implantable
defibrillators like Medtronic, St. Jude Medical Inc. and  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX) , Feinberg said. Johnson & Johnson’s chief
financial officer said in a September conference that his
company is interested in the heart-pump business as well.  “The executives of the medical-device industry are looking
for where the growth is and they recognize this is it,”
Feinberg said. “At this point in time, we have more confidence
a big company can take this to the next level.”  The device maker was a pioneer in the development of so-
called left-ventricular assist devices, used to take over the
workload for failing hearts. The Pleasanton, California-based
company rose 1.2 percent to $31.38 at 4 p.m. in New York
trading, reaching its highest level since Nov. 1.  Auction Price  Feinberg said the company may fetch $60 in an auction, more
than analyst estimates of about $34. At $34, a sale is “not
going to happen,” he said. “I wouldn’t sell at that price and
management wouldn’t either.”  Sixteen analysts in a Bloomberg survey have an average
target price for the company, in a year’s time, of $36.56.  Thoratec might make sense for any of the large device
makers, who have seen declining sales and profit margins for
other products, said Thomas Gunderson, a Piper Jaffray & Co.
analyst based in  Minneapolis . The potential sales price depends
on how many suitors arise, he said by telephone.  Thoratec’s shares dropped 25 percent between Oct. 27 and
Nov. 23, a period in which rival  HeartWare International Inc. (HIN) 
announced better-than-expected revenue while Thoratec lowered
sales projections for 2011. Even with the decline, the stock has
gained 11 percent this year.  Ebb and Flow  “This is still a relatively nascent market and it is going
to ebb and flow,” Gunderson said. “Overall, it’s still a
strong growth trajectory at a higher angle than any of the big
strategic companies are on.”  Thoratec “appreciates the views of our stockholders,”
said Susan Benton Russell, a company spokeswoman, in an e-mail.
“We are dedicated to enhancing value and will continue to
maintain an open dialogue with all of our stockholders.”  Adelle Infante, a spokeswoman for  Abbott Park , Illinois-
based Abbott, and Carol Goodrich, a spokeswoman at J&J, in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey , both said their companies don’t comment
on rumor and speculation. Amy von Walter, a spokeswoman for
Minneapolis-based  Medtronic (MDT) , also declined to comment. Calls
weren’t immediately returned by Denise Kaigler, a spokeswoman
for Natick, Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific and Rachel
Ellingson, of  St. Paul , Minnesota-based St. Jude.  J&J is interested in ventricular assist devices and another
fast-growing category, minimally invasive artificial  heart
valves , CFO Dominic Caruso told investors at a Sept. 13
conference. Still, the companies in those markets are
“overvalued,” he said at the time.  Oracle Stake  Oracle increased its stake in Thoratec to 3.11 million
shares, according to a regulatory filing yesterday. That would
represent 5.2 percent of outstanding shares, making the fund
Thoratec’s second-biggest shareholder, according to Bloomberg
data. Earlier this year it had been the fifth biggest.  The fund’s letter called growth for the Thoratec’s
HeartMate pumps “unsatisfactory” and said the company hasn’t
meaningfully expanded its market share in  Europe .  “Thoratec is unable to maximize  shareholder value  as an
independent company,” the letter said. “We believe that an
auction process would be the most effective means to find a
suitable acquirer and urge the board of directors to take action
now to retain an independent investment bank to maximize
shareholder value.”  The market for ventricular-assist devices may increase to
10,000 implants in 2015 from 4,000 in 2010, the Oracle letter
said. In the third quarter of 2011, Thoratec revenue increased
13 percent to $102.6 million from a year earlier.  The company ended a proposed merger with its chief rival,
Framingham, Massachusetts-based HeartWare, in July 2009 after
U.S. regulators said they would challenge the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  