-- 
Morgan Stanley Denies Wrongdoing, Says Singapore CDO Investors Knew Risks

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-12-06T04:31:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/morgan-stanley-denies-wrongdoing-says-singapore-cdo-investors-knew-risks.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , accused by 18
Singapore investors of fraudulently wiping out their $154.7
million investment, denied wrongdoing and said the group was
sophisticated and knew of the risks involved.  The bank acted in good faith and shouldn’t be liable for
losses suffered by the investors as they were caused by events
beyond its control, Morgan Stanley said in a filing in federal
court in  Manhattan  yesterday.  Morgan Stanley, based in New York, on Oct. 31 won a
narrowing of claims by the Singapore investors who said they
were induced to buy synthetic collateralized debt obligations
that were designed to fail.  Any alleged misstatements by Morgan Stanley on the notes
“were mere puffery or were vague statements of optimism,” the
bank said in its filing yesterday. “Defendants had no duty to
disclose the allegedly omitted information.”  U.S. District Judge Leonard Sand had granted the firm’s
request to throw out claims of negligent misrepresentation,
breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, aiding and abetting.
Sand allowed other claims of fraud and breach of good covenant
and good faith to continue.  The investors had shown sufficient evidence that they acted
reasonably in relying upon Morgan Stanley’s statements, Judge
Sand said on Oct. 31.  The investors alleged Morgan Stanley created collateralized
debt obligations -- a debt security usually backed by bonds or
corporate loans -- and failed to inform the investors that it
was a counter-party to the agreements. For each dollar the
investors lost, the bank gained a dollar, the group, including
the  Singapore Government Staff Credit Cooperative Society Ltd .
said in their lawsuit filed last year.  The case is Dandong v. Pinnacle Performance Limited, 10-CV-
8086, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  