-- 
Osborne Urges Bonus Restraint as Treasury Proposes Crackdown

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-12-06T16:33:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/osborne-urges-bonus-restraint-as-treasury-proposes-crackdown.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  urged banks to build up their financial defences
rather than pay out big bonuses this year as the Treasury said
it will explore ways to tackle “unacceptable” levels of pay.  The Treasury plans to consult on proposals to curb bonuses
by extending current pay-disclosure requirements and giving
shareholders a greater say over executive compensation.  “We need stronger banks not larger bonuses this winter,”
Osborne told lawmakers in the House of Commons in London today.  The government is increasing pressure on institutions as
they begin considering bonus awards over the coming months.
Ministers are seeking to prevent a public backlash over top pay
as  living standards  are eroded by inflation and a weak economy.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said on Dec. 4 public-
sector workers enduring pay curbs to help tackle the  budget
deficit  should not feel they are doing “all the heavy lifting”
and the government is prepared to legislate if necessary.  Thousands of government workers went on strike last week to
protest against plans to curb their pensions and Osborne
announced that state employees will see their pay increase by
no more than 1 percent for two years after the current freeze
ends in 2013.  The Treasury plans to extend the pay-disclosure agreement
to the 15 largest banks operating in the U.K., including non-
U.K. banks that operate in the country. Under their Project
Merlin accord with the government earlier this year, the largest
banks agreed to disclose earnings of their top eight executives.  “The banking system cannot reward employees for short-term
performance while leaving investors exposed to long-term risk,”
Treasury minister Mark Hoban said in a statement. “We want
shareholders to hold banks to account for their bonus structure,
which is why we’re taking action to make top-level pay more
transparent. We want the most transparency for those with the
greatest responsibility.”  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee said last
week that if banks’ earnings aren’t enough to build capital,
they should limit payments of bonuses and dividends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  