-- 
How Israel Can Stop Alienating American Jews: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-12-06T00:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/how-israel-can-stop-alienating-u-s-jews-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Last week, Politico’s  Ben Smith 
pointed me to a very strange Israeli government advertising
campaign, which was aimed at persuading Israelis in the U.S. to
go home.  By some estimates, hundreds of thousands of Israelis live
in the U.S., including many exceptional scientists and
physicians, and  Israel  believes they should be working at home.
So the Israeli  Ministry of Immigrant Absorption  placed
billboards in several American cities that were meant to scare
expatriates into believing that their children would cease to be
Israeli if they remained in the U.S.  The campaign could have highlighted Israel’s low
unemployment rate, or its thriving technology sector, or the
quality of Israeli hummus, but instead it adopted the
perspective of a fretting Jewish grandmother.  These billboards were accompanied by an Internet campaign
designed to suggest, among other things, that Israeli children
would eventually confuse Christmas for Hanukkah if they were
exposed to U.S. culture for too long.  I wrote a  blog post  about this guilt-and-fear campaign,
arguing that it showed contempt for American Jews, many of whose
children, despite the multifarious attractions of assimilation,
still understand that Christmas is a Christian holiday and
Hanukkah is Jewish.  Seismic Reaction  The reaction in the American Jewish community was
surprisingly seismic. Soon enough, the Jewish Federations of
 North America  and other Jewish groups were denouncing the
advertisements.  “While we recognize the motivations behind the ad campaign,
we are strongly opposed to the messaging that American Jews do
not understand Israel,” the federation leadership  said in a
message to its members . “We share the concerns many of you have
expressed that this outrageous and insulting message could harm
the Israel-Diaspora relationship.”  Within a day of the federation statement, Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  ordered the ad campaign canceled.  I only wish that the prime minister’s alacrity on this
issue would be matched on matters far more important than
billboards. There are three issues the Netanyahu government must
address quickly to prevent the bonds between Israel and its
American Jewish supporters from fraying further.  The first is an unprecedented campaign by right-wing
members of the Knesset, including some in Netanyahu’s Likud
Party, to curtail aspects of Israeli democracy. This has
included attempting to restrict the activities and fundraising
abilities of human-rights organizations critical of government
policy; proposing laws limiting free speech in a dispute over
boycotts of products made in West Bank settlements; and waging a
campaign to delegitimize Israel’s independent  Supreme Court  by
giving the Knesset, instead of an independent panel, the power
to appoint justices.  Netanyahu understands that Israel’s credibility in the U.S.
rests largely on its claim to be the  Middle East ’s only
democracy. It’s shocking to think that just as Arab states such
as Tunisia and Egypt move (albeit imperfectly) toward greater
democratization, Israeli politicians are proposing laws that
would circumscribe their country’s raucously open democracy.  Second, American Jews, the vast majority of whom are not
Orthodox, are also growing uneasy about the concentration of
religious power in Israel’s Orthodox rabbinate, which oversees
such matters as conversion and divorce. It has been true for
decades that Jews in the U.S. have more freedom of religion than
Jews in Israel -- in the U.S., after all, the state recognizes
the validity of marriages officiated by Reform rabbis.  But now we’re seeing strikingly intolerant applications of
ultra-Orthodox practice in Israel. The most offensive
manifestation at the moment might be attempts to segregate women
on public bus lines that pass through certain Orthodox
neighborhoods. On many of these lines women have quite literally
been forced to the back of the bus. If this sort of misogyny is
tolerated, Israel will lose the support of battalions of
American Jewish women (not to mention the current U.S. secretary
of state).  Moral Disaster  The third issue creating unease is the ever-expanding
Jewish settlement project on the  West Bank . Many American Jews,
especially those in their 20s and 30s, look on the settlements
as a moral and political disaster. They believe that the
Palestinians, no less than the Jews, deserve a homeland. They
believe that Israel should be both Jewish-majority and
democratic, and they understand that it won’t be either if
Israel maintains its hold over the Arabs of the West Bank. They
believe that Zionism is not mainly about the redemption of land
promised to the Jews by God in the Torah, but about the national
liberation of a persecuted people.  The permanent occupation of the entire Promised Land is not
a theological requirement for national liberation.  The Obama administration seems to be arguing lately that
the blame for stalled peace talks rests almost entirely with
Israel. This clearly isn’t true. The  Palestinian Authority  of
 Mahmoud Abbas  seems uninterested in even sharing its ideas for
compromise with Israel. Yet this doesn’t excuse the Netanyahu
government’s inability to curtail the settlements or the
settlers, some of whom behave despicably toward their
Palestinian neighbors. The occupation will come to an end only
through direct negotiation. The West Bank settlers should, if
nothing else, be brought under the rule of law, and be
encouraged to come home.  Israelis, and their American supporters, often argue that
Israel’s problem is one of public relations. It is, to some
degree. The world holds Israel to a higher standard than any
other country. But here’s a secret: American Jews hold Israel to
a very high standard as well, and if Israel ceases to be a free
and open country governed by the rule of law, American Jewish
support for Israel will dissipate, with dramatic and unpleasant
consequences.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 