-- 
Toyota Hybrids Seen Going From Strength to Strength as World Beaters: Cars

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-12-06T01:41:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/toyota-hybrids-go-from-strength-to-strength.html
Toyota Motor Corp. ’s new plug-in
Prius threatens to cast a shadow over competitors’ hybrids.  A successful debut of the Prius PHV, which Toyota will
begin selling in 2012, may help Toyota secure its place as the
industry leader in gas-and-electric vehicles and undermine
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s prospects with its Chevrolet Volt. Though
the Volt, introduced a year ago, was the first plug-in hybrid on
the market, its sales are trailing the company’s target. The
model has also been beset by a government investigation into
battery fires after collision tests.  “Toyota carries the image of being a leader in hybrids and
the recent problems with the Volt’s batteries give consumers an
extra reason to choose the plug-in Prius over the Volt,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million in Tokyo at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “Toyota’s new plug-in Prius
will definitely have a negative impact on GM’s sales of the
Volt.”  Toyota, poised to lose its crown as the world’s biggest
carmaker to Detroit-based GM this year, said the PHV goes on
sale in January in Japan and March in the U.S., where it will be
about 20 percent cheaper than the Volt.  GM believes the Volt is a different kind of car than the
Prius plug-in and will appeal to different buyers, said company
spokesman  Rob Peterson . The Volt can go farther in electric
drive than the Prius and offer much better efficiency for
drivers with a short commute, he said. The Volt’s electric drive
system also provides the kind of soft, quiet ride befitting many
luxury cars, he said.  Plug-in Push  “We think the Volt is a better proposition,” Peterson
said. “The Volt is much more refined than a Prius.”  The  auto industry  as a whole is making a push in to the
plug-in market.  Nissan Motor Co.  plans to introduce a plug-in
hybrid by 2015 to complement its gas-free electric Leaf compact.
The automaker has sold about 20,000 Leaf compacts since they
went on sale on December last year.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  has said it
will embrace the plug-in variation of hybrid engines by as early
as next year.  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) , which makes the i-MiEV electric
car, has said it will introduce a plug-in in the second half of
next year. Audi AG expects to introduce such vehicles in 2014
and  South Korea ’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  has said it also plans to
roll out its own plug-in hybrid.  Toyota, however, may have the edge. “No other carmakers
have a car like” the PHV, said Chris Richter, a Tokyo-based
analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. “Toyota’s plug-in has a
much better efficiency and range than the Volt, which is much
more expensive.”  ‘Ample Demand’  Toyota has targeted global sales of 60,000 units of the PHV
in its first year, and may consider adding production if there’s
“ample demand,” said  Shiori Hashimoto , a spokeswoman for the
company. That’s triple the 19,010 units delivered when the Prius
first went on sale outside of  Japan  in 2000.  GM sold 6,142 Volts this year through November and will
miss its sales target of 10,000 cars this year, said  Don Johnson , the carmaker’s vice president of U.S. sales, on Dec. 1.
GM expects, though, expects to raise production of the Volt to
60,000 next year with 45,000 earmarked for the U.S. and the rest
for export.  The Prius is Toyota’s third-best selling car after the
Corolla and Camry, and the fastest-growing Toyota car this year,
as higher gasoline prices boost demand for fuel-efficient
automobiles. Still, the Japanese carmaker isn’t giving up on
traditional cars, with President Akio Toyoda saying last week
that he “loves the smell of gasoline and the sound of engines”
as he introduced the company’s new 86 sports coupe.  The PHV, which will first go on sale from 3.2 million yen
($41,100) in Japan in January and from $32,000 in the U.S. in
March, differs from today’s Prius by offering the driver the
choice of running solely on electricity. After the electric
battery runs out, though, the vehicle operates like a third-
generation Prius, according to  Toyota .  The car can be recharged using a standard wall outlet at
home, can cover 15 miles on electricity alone and 49 miles per
gallon on gasoline, according to Toyota’s website. That compares
with the Volt, which can go 40 miles on electricity power before
the gasoline engine kicks in and powers a generator, which
recharges the battery.  The new Prius will use a lithium ion battery supplied by
Panasonic Corp.’s Sanyo, replacing an earlier battery from
Primearth EV Energy Co. GM’s Volt also uses  lithium-ion
batteries , which are supplied by LG Chem Ltd. Takeshi Uchiyamada, executive vice president of Toyota, said in an
interview last week that the company has carefully assured the
safety of its batteries, which is one reason why the Prius took
longer than expected to reach the market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  