-- 
TMP Directional, Former Monster Worldwide Unit, Files for Bankruptcy

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 
2011-12-06T15:20:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/tmp-directional-former-monster-worldwide-unit-files-for-bankruptcy.html
TMP Directional Marketing LLC, the
defunct  advertising agency  spun off from  Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW) ,
filed bankruptcy with plans to liquidate its remaining assets.  The Chapter 11 plan has been accepted by more than 95
percent of voting creditors, according to court documents filed
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The company estimated that unsecured creditors will collect
11 percent to 18 percent of what they are owed. Chapter 11 of
the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  can be used either by companies trying
to reorganize and continue operating, or to liquidate.  Before it shut down in April, TMP, based in Glendale,
 Wisconsin , employed 400 people, according to court papers.  The company “suffered due to numerous factors, including
the recent economic downturn, when the broader print advertising
market declined by approximately 20 percent,” Timothy P.
Nugent, TMP’s assistant treasurer said in court paper.  Almost all secured debt was repaid earlier this year. Audax
Group acquired TMP Directional in the 2005 spinoff from Monster.
Monster isn’t in bankruptcy and is no longer involved in the
company.  TMP asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath to schedule a
hearing on Jan. 17 to approve a plan to transfer all of its
remaining assets to a liquidating trust that would distribute
the proceeds to creditors.  Yellow Pages  The petition listed assets of $65.3 million, with debt
totaling $134.8 million. Among the debt, $132.9 million is
unsecured.  TMP Directional specialized in placing ads in the yellow
pages of local telephone books. Secured lenders required TMP to
pay them off earlier this year, helping cause the business to
shut down. An ad hoc committee of unsecured creditors was formed
to negotiate a Chapter 11 plan. The committee’s members have
$112 million in unsecured claims, court papers say.  Secured lenders are holding $11 million cash to cover
indemnification obligations, according to court papers.  The company blamed financial problems on the recession and
the accompanying decline in print advertising.  The case is In re TMP Directional Marketing LLC, 11-13835,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  