-- 
Parkson Turns to S.E. Asia to Boost Growth

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-12-06T03:23:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/parkson-turns-to-s-e-asia-to-boost-growth.html
Parkson Holdings Bhd. (PKS) , a Kuala
Lumpur-based department-store operator that makes most of its
revenue in China, plans to enter new markets in Southeast  Asia 
to tap the region’s growing affluence.  The retailer that has 102 outlets in China, Malaysia,
 Vietnam  and  Indonesia , sees Myanmar,  Thailand  and the
 Philippines  as potential markets, said Alfred Cheng, managing
director of the units listed in Hong Kong and  Singapore . Parkson
plans to open 24 more stores in Asia by the end of next year,
followed by its first in  Cambodia  in the first half of 2013,
Cheng said.  “I am always on the lookout,” he said in an interview in
 Kuala Lumpur  yesterday. “The Indo-China region, as a whole, has
about 160 million people. That’s where we want to be.”  Malaysia , Indonesia and Vietnam collectively contributed 30
percent to Parkson’s group revenue for the financial year ended
June, with the rest coming from China, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Non-China revenue may grow to mirror that
generated in China in the future as the group expands, Cheng
said, without specifying a time frame.  It currently operates 49 outlets in China, 37 in Malaysia,
eight each in Vietnam and Indonesia.  Parkson’s China outlets will probably sustain same-store
sales growth of as much as 13 percent next year, according to
Cheng. Revenue from stores open more than a year in Vietnam will
grow about 15 percent to 20 percent next year, and 8 percent to
10 percent in both Malaysia and Indonesia, he said.  Singapore Debut  Parkson was set up in Malaysia in 1987 as the retailing arm
of the Lion Group, controlled by Cheng Heng Jem, better known as
William Cheng. The holding company owns 51.5 percent of Hong
Kong-listed  Parkson Retail Group Ltd. , which is based in Beijing,
and 67.6 percent of Singapore-listed  Parkson Retail Asia Ltd. (3368) ,
which runs all stores outside China, according to stock exchange
filings. Alfred Cheng is managing director of both.  Parkson Retail Asia debuted on the Singapore stock exchange
on Nov. 3 after raising S$138.2 million ($108 million) in an
initial share sale. In June, the group ventured into the
Indonesian market after acquiring PT Tozy Sentosa, which owns
the country’s Centro department stores, for $12.8 million.  “The idea of Parkson Retail Asia listing in Singapore is
for it to have an independent profile so that it can undertake
expansion within the countries we operate in, as well as to take
on new countries when opportunity arises,” Cheng said.
“Fifteen years or 20 years down the road, the rest of Asia
could be equal size” to Parkson’s  China  business.  Parkson Retail Asia has  risen  5.3 percent since its debut,
compared with a 2.4 percent decline in the benchmark FTSE
Straits Times Index in the same period. The stock rose 1.3
percent to S$1.19 at 11:10 a.m. in Singapore trading today.  Store Expansion  Parkson Holdings, the Malaysian parent, had 3.2 billion
ringgit ($1 billion) in cash in September, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Its position is “strong enough” for
acquisitions and opening stores in new markets as opportunities
arise, Cheng said. Parkson Retail Group signed an agreement last
month to expand a loan, completed last year, by 60 percent to
$400 million, giving it additional working capital to expand in
China.  The group plans to open four new stores in China this month,
said Cheng. The retailer opened its first store in Beijing in
1994 and now derives 70 percent of sales from the world’s most
populous nation for the financial year ended June, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are cautiously aggressive with our plans,” he said.
“We are operating in countries where the underlying domestic
consumption is still growing very quickly.”  Dividend Policy  Parkson posted a 19 percent increase in net income to 90.3
million ringgit for the three months through Sept. 30, driven by
higher sales and improved operating efficiency. Revenue grew 21
percent to 792 million ringgit.  “Our same-store sales growth is still growing at a very
strong double-digit rate, so with that improvement, our bottom
line continues to expand in double digits,” he said. “Despite
the global uncertainty in the economic environment, the
countries we are operating in are still in developing mode.”  Both Parkson Retail Group and Parkson Retail Asia have a
policy of paying as much as 50 percent of net income as
dividends to shareholders, Cheng added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid in  Hong Kong  at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  