-- 
Targeted Breast Radiation Linked to Higher Mastectomy Rates in Future

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/partial-breast-radiation-linked-to-higher-mastectomy-rates-later.html
Breast cancer  patients who undergo
targeted  radiation  that takes less time after a tumor is removed
are almost twice as likely to need a mastectomy later as women
who get a full course of the treatment, a study found.  Partial radiation, known as brachytherapy, allows women to
complete the twice-daily treatment in a week, compared with more
than five weeks of traditional radiation. The study, reported
yesterday at the  San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium , found 4
percent of those getting partial breast irradiation subsequently
had a mastectomy, compared with 2.2 percent of those on standard
treatment.  Researchers reviewed Medicare claims for 130,535 women
diagnosed with early-stage breast cancer after menopause. They
found the “strongest predictor” of whether a woman received a
mastectomy was the type of radiation received, out weighing
known risks such as chemotherapy, age and the amount of cancer
spread, according to the study.  “Since the goal of all this therapy is to avoid cancer
recurrence and preserve the breast, the fact that women treated
with brachytherapy were more likely to lose their breast than
women treated with whole breast radiation is concerning,” said
 Benjamin Smith , a study author and senior researcher at the
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.  The number of women opting for the targeted therapy
increased to 13 percent by 2007 from less than 1 percent in
2000, the researchers said.  Unexpected Results  The results were unexpected, said Smith. The faster intense
treatment with brachytherapy, which involves inserting a
catheter containing a radioactive source directly into the
breast where the tumor was removed, seemed logical, he said.  The machines that deliver high-dose brachytherapy are made
by companies including  Varian Medical Systems Inc. (VAR) , based in
 Palo Alto ,  California , and  Stockholm ’s  Elekta AB. (EKTAB)  Catheters that
are inserted into the breast include Bedford, Massachusetts-
based  Hologic Inc. (HOLX) ’s Mammosite,  C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR) ’s Contura and
Savi from closely held Aliso Viejo, California-based Cianna
Medical Inc. Only Mammosite catheters were available when the
study was conducted, though newer versions have since been
introduced, Smith said.  It’s unclear whether the results will apply to the newer
catheters, he said.  A definitive trial comparing a variety of partial breast
radiation methods to whole breast radiation is under way in more
than 4,000 women, Smith said. Those results won’t be available
for several years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  