-- 
Pfizer Jury Awards $72 Million After Finding Prempro Caused Breast Cancer

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y ,   C h r i s   Y a s i e j k o   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-12-06T22:11:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/pfizer-prempro-drug-caused-women-s-breast-cancer-jury-rules.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  must pay $72.6 million in
damages to three women who said they developed breast cancer
after taking the company’s menopause drugs, a Philadelphia jury
decided.  Jurors today in state court deliberated over two days
before finding hormone-replacement drugs made by Pfizer’s Wyeth
and Pharmacia Upjohn units were responsible for Susan Elfont,
Bernadette Kalenkoski and Judy Mulderig developing cancer. The
panel awarded Elfont $20 million in compensatory damages;
Kalenkoski, $27.85 million; and Mulderig, $24.75 million.  “We are obviously disappointed with the verdict in this
case,” Chris Loder, a Pfizer spokesman, said in a written
statement. “Once the verdict is finalized, the company will
weigh its legal options to determine how it will continue with
the case.”  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms such as hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
topped $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative , a National Institutes of Health-sponsored study.  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined  Premarin ,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden  Provera , made
by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its  Prempro  pill.  Litigation Scorecard  Pfizer’s Wyeth and Upjohn units have now lost 10 of the 18
Prempro cases decided by juries since trials began in 2006. The
drugmaker got some of those verdicts thrown out after trial or
had the awards reduced. It resolved some of the verdicts through
settlements, while other decisions are on appeal. It also has
had cases thrown out before trial.  Pfizer announced in May that it had settled a third of the
pending Prempro cases and had set aside $772 million to help
resolve the claims.  Elfont, 66, is a former teacher who once lived in Northeast
Philadelphia, Tobi Millrood, a lawyer for the three women, said
during the trial. She took Premarin and Provera for more than
two years before being diagnosed with  breast cancer  in 1997,
Millrood said.  Retired Teacher  Kalenkoski, 68, is a former nursing home aide who took
Prempro for more than four years and was diagnosed with cancer
in 2002, Millrood said. Mulderig, 68, a retired teacher from
Carlisle,  Pennsylvania , took Premarin and Provera for 11 years
starting in 1988, the lawyer added.  Millrood told jurors during the first phase of the two-week
trial that none of the three women had a family history of
breast cancer and experts concluded their use of menopause drugs
led to the development of the disease.  Millrood declined today to comment on the verdict because
jurors must further consider Wyeth’s liability for damages in
the second phase of the case, slated to begin Dec. 9.  Diane Sullivan, one of the lawyers for the Pfizer units,
said the evidence was unclear on how long the women had taken
menopause drugs because of gaps in their pharmacy records. She
said the women’s individual cases differed from those covered by
the WHI study and plaintiffs shouldn’t be able to rely on that
study to make their case.  “They are trying to make these women fit with the WHI
study and they don’t fit,” Sullivan told the seven-man, five-
woman jury in closing arguments.  The last Prempro verdict against the Pfizer units came a
year ago in  Puerto Rico , where a jury awarded $1.5 million in
damages to a pharmacist who took the menopause drug. The company
won the next two cases before today’s verdict.  The Philadelphia case is Elfont v. Wyeth Pharmaceuticals
Inc., 00924, Jury Term 2004, Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Yasiejko in Philadelphia at  yasiejko@gmail.com ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 