-- 
Plea Hearing Set for U.S. Man Accused of Working With Pakistan Spy Agency

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-06T19:27:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/plea-hearing-set-for-u-s-man-accused-of-working-with-pakistan-spy-agency.html
A  Virginia  man accused of aiding a
“decades-long” operation by Pakistan’s spy agency to influence
U.S. policy on Kashmir by funneling money to members of Congress
is scheduled to appear in court tomorrow for a plea agreement
hearing.  Syed Ghulam Nabi Fai was charged in July in federal court
in Alexandria, Virginia, with conspiracy to violate the Foreign
Agents Registration Act and lying to federal agents.  The plea
agreement hearing is to take place before U.S. District Judge
Liam O’Grady, according to the docket, which doesn’t specify the
nature of the agreement.  Prosecutors said Fai helped move about $4 million from
Pakistan’s government through the Washington-based Kashmiri
American Council to sway U.S. lawmakers with campaign
contributions and other lobbying activities.  The council, headed by Fai, is “actually run” by elements
of the Pakistani government, including  Pakistan ’s military
intelligence service, the Inter-Services Intelligence Agency, or
ISI, the Justice Department said in a July statement announcing
the charges. Fai was charged along with Zaheer Ahmad, a U.S.
citizen who remains at large, according to prosecutors.  On Nov. 23, prosecutors separated Fai’s case from Ahmad’s
and added a new charge of impeding the Internal Revenue Service.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride ,
declined to comment on the hearing. Nina Ginsberg, a lawyer for
Fai, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on
the plea hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Fai, 11-00561, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 