-- 
Poland’s KGHM to Buy Quadra FNX for $2.84 Billion to Add U.S., Chile Mines

-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-12-06T22:04:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/poland-s-kghm-to-buy-quadra-fnx-for-2-83-billion-to-add-u-s-chile-mines.html
     Dec. 6 (Bloomberg) -- KGHM Polska Miedz SA, the copper
miner with the largest European output, agreed to buy  Canada ’s
 Quadra FNX Mining Ltd. (QUX)  for about C$2.87 billion ($2.84 billion)
in the largest overseas acquisition by a Polish company.  KGHM will pay C$15 a share, a 41 percent premium to
Quadra’s 20-day volume-weighted average price, the Vancouver-
based company said today in a statement. The transaction,
expected to close in the first quarter, will be funded using
existing cash on hand, Quadra said.  The state-controlled company is buying miners outside
 Poland  as it seeks to cut production costs and raise output. The
purchase will allow Lubin-based KGHM to increase annual
production by more than 100,000 tons starting in 2012 from
570,000 tons planned this year, KGHM said.  The KGHM offer values Quadra at 0.83 times net asset value,
which is low compared with recent deals,  Greg Barnes , a Toronto-
based analyst at TD Newcrest Inc., said in a note to clients.  “There is room for a higher offer, in our view,” Barnes
said. A possible bidder is Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale SA (VALE3) , he
said.  Quadra, which trades under the symbol QUX, climbed 40
percent to C$15.88 at the close in Toronto. The shares dropped
32 percent this year through yesterday.  ‘Serial Disappointer’  “The market had treated QUX’s management as a serial
disappointer and they heavily punished the price of the
company’s shares,”  Raymond Goldie , a Toronto-based analyst at
Salman Partners Inc., said in a telephone interview. A bidding
war for Quadra is likely, he said.  The Quadra board considered starting a broader process to
sell the company after receiving the KGHM offer a few weeks ago,
Chief Executive Officer Paul Blythe said in a telephone
interview today.  "We decided that the deal that we’ve got, the bird in the
hand, was the best way to go," Blythe said. "It was a
significant premium to our stock price."  There have been $18.5 billion of copper acquisitions valued
at $100 million or more announced this year, with an average
premium of 31 percent, compared with $8.71 billion a year ago,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Besides Vale, Antofagasta Plc may be a possible bidder,
 George Topping , a Toronto-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
said in a telephone interview.  ‘Bad News’  KGHM dropped 8 percent to 122.2 zloty in Warsaw following
the announcement.  "It’s really bad news because there won’t be a big
dividend," Tomasz Duda, an analyst at Ipopema Securities SA,
said in a telephone interview. "They are buying poor assets with
high production costs and they are overpaying."  The acquisition is KGHM’s second takeover outside Poland in
almost two years. Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Wirth  said
today in an e-mailed statement that buying Quadra will make his
company "more immune to price slumps on the cyclical copper
market."  The plan to buy Quadra is an "interesting idea,"  Maciej
Wewior , a spokesman for the Polish Treasury Ministry, KGHM’s
biggest shareholder, said by phone today. The ministry has a 32
percent stake in the company.  KGHM has all necessary approvals from its owners for the
acquisition, Wirth said today at a press conference in Warsaw.  Combined Production  The combined company will have annual copper production of
1.4 billion pounds (635,000 metric tons) once Quadra’s Sierra
Gorda copper and molybdenum project in northern Chile reaches
its designed capacity, KGHM said in its own statement.  KGHM estimates that its average copper production costs
will be at least 20 percent lower in 2018 as a result of adding
the Quadra assets, Wirth said.  Quadra was created last year when Quadra Mining Ltd.
acquired FNX Mining Co. for about C$1 billion. The company owns
the Robinson mine in  Nevada , Carlota in  Arizona , Franke in  Chile 
and the Morrison and Podolsky operations in Canada’s Sudbury
basin.  Quadra, which produced 224 million pounds of copper and 7
million pounds of nickel in 2010, announced last month that it
would wind down production at Carlota and Podolsky and adjust
the mine plan at Franke to focus on the "flagship" Robinson and
Morrison mines.  Sierra Gorda  The company announced a joint-venture agreement with
Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. and Sumitomo Corp. in May to develop
Sierra Gorda.  KGHM participated in the process Quadra ran to find a
joint-venture partner on Sierra Gorda and came forward in recent
weeks with a proposal to buy the company, Blythe said in his
company’s statement.  The agreement includes a breakup fee of C$75 million that
would be payable to KGHM if Quadra accepts a higher offer, both
companies said. KGHM has a right to match any superior proposal.  The breakup fee is relatively low, Stifel’s Topping said.
“It’s not really going to stop anybody” from making a
competing bid, he said.  The value of the deal was calculated using the 191.5
million shares of Quadra that are outstanding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Quadra said it was advised by BMO Capital Markets, and GMP
Securities LP is offering a fairness opinion to the company’s
independent committee of directors. KGHM said it was advised by
BNP Paribas SA and Rothschild.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  