-- 
Poland May Leave Interest Rates at Highest Since 2009 After Zloty Decline

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-12-07T09:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/poland-may-leave-interest-rates-at-highest-since-2009-after-zloty-decline.html
Poland’s central bank will probably
leave its main  interest rate  unchanged at the highest in almost
three years on concern a fall in the zloty will fuel inflation
even as the euro area’s debt crisis threatens economic growth.  The Narodowy Bank Polski will leave the  benchmark seven-day
interest rate  at 4.5 percent for a fifth month, the highest
since January 2009, according to all 32 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The decision is due today after noon in Warsaw
following a two-day meeting.  Policy makers raised borrowing costs by a total of 1
percentage point this year to tame inflation and have reaffirmed
plans to hold rates flat after price growth accelerated. Since
the last increase in June, the zloty has shed 12.5 percent
against the euro as investors shun emerging-market assets,
pushing up import costs and helping keep inflation above the
central bank’s 2.5 percent target for a 13th month.  “Inflation remains at an elevated level, the zloty is
exposed to depreciation because of external turbulence and the
real economy is still in good shape -- all of which gives policy
makers enough space for a wait-and-see attitude,”  Mateusz Szczurek , chief economist for central and eastern  Europe  at
Warsaw-based unit of ING Groep NV, said yesterday in a note.  The zloty, the sixth-worst performer since July among
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, traded at 4.4633 per euro at 10
a.m. in Warsaw, up from 4.47 late yesterday. The yield on  the
government’s 10-year bond  fell 0.2 percentage point to 5.86
percent.  ‘Zloty Complication’  Consumer prices rose 4.3 percent from a year earlier in
October after a 3.9 percent increase in September, prompting
policy makers, including Elzbieta Chojna-Duch and Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, to reiterate plans to leave rates unchanged.
Central bank Governor Marek Belka said Nov. 30 that “the
volatile zloty complicates the bank’s fight with inflation.”  The bank has cut its 2012 economic-growth forecast to 3.1
percent from 3.2 percent. Gross domestic product grew 4.3
percent from a year earlier in the third quarter, better than
economists forecast, bolstering projections for full-year
expansion of 4 percent or more, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said
Dec. 2.  Growth next year may depend on progress in solving the debt
crisis in the euro region, which “is already in a mild
recession,” according to a report last week by the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Poland ’s
economy, the only one in EU to dodge recession in 2009, may slow
to 2.5 percent in 2012, the government estimates.  ‘Stubbornly High’  While the median estimate of 29 economists in a Bloomberg
survey indicates a quarter-point rate cut by March, some predict
an increase, should the euro region’s crisis lead to further
zloty depreciation and inflation.  “Right now we have a problem with inflation and only if it
slows near the upper end of the inflation target range can  we
start thinking about the real economy,” council member  Andrzej
Kazmierczak  told journalists in Warsaw on Dec. 5. “Despite four
rate increases, we see increasing borrowing by companies. This
means that the rates channel isn’t fully efficient.”  Corporate loans grew 13.4 percent in October from a year
earlier, accelerating from a 13 percent increase the previous
month, according to central bank data.  Upward pressure on manufacturers’ input prices “remained
stubbornly high” in November even as demand weakened, HSBC
Holdings said Dec. 1. The  producer price index , an early
indication of inflationary trends, rose four consecutive months
to 8.5 percent in October.  While the central bank has sold euros to prop up the zloty,
it may have to do more to stem the decline, Ernest Pytlarczyk,
chief economist at BRE bank in Warsaw, said in a note on Dec. 2.  “A rate hike could be a viable alternative,” he said.  Hungary raised borrowing costs by 50 basis points to 6.5
percent on Nov. 29 to stem declines in the forint after the
country’s credit rating was downgraded to junk status by Moody’s
Investors Service.  “More pressure on the zloty and problems with external
financing could prompt emergency hikes,” Magdalena Polan, an
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  London , wrote on Nov.
30 in a note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  