-- 
Prostate Cancer Drugs Aren’t Tied to Heart Attacks, Study Says

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-12-06T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/prostate-cancer-drugs-aren-t-tied-to-heart-attacks-study-says.html
Prostate cancer drugs from
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ,  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  and others don’t
increase the risk of heart attacks in men with no history of the
disease, a study said, contradicting earlier reports.  The prescription medicines used to lower male hormones, a
treatment known as androgen deprivation therapy, didn’t result
in more cases of cardiovascular disease compared with men not
taking the medications, according to research published today by
the  Journal of the American Medical Association . Men on the
therapy also lived longer.  Last year, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said it
would review published studies about the safety of prescription
medicines used for androgen deprivation therapy, after six
studies showed a small increase in the risk of diabetes and
 heart disease .  “This message should be reassuring for the vast majority
of patients considering androgen deprivation therapy,” Paul
Nguyen, a radiation oncologist at Dana-Farber/Brigham and
Women’s Cancer  Center  in Boston, and study author, said in a
statement. “If you need ADT for your prostate cancer, go ahead
and have it. Hormones can save lives.”  Prostate cancer is the second-most-common cancer among U.S.
men and causes more than 27,000 deaths each year, according to
the  American Cancer Society . Androgen deprivation therapy, used
along with radiation, decreases the production of the hormone
testosterone, which fuels prostate cancer cell growth. Side
effects can include cholesterol imbalances, weight gain and
insulin resistance, factors that can increase heart disease.  Study Findings  The new study examined the results of eight trials of 4,141
patients with prostate cancer that had spread beyond the gland.
Eleven percent of patients on the therapy died from heart
disease, compared with 11.2 percent in the control group, an
insignificant difference, according to the report. In a further
analysis of 4,805 patients from 11 trials, about 37.7 percent on
the medicines died, compared with 44.4 percent in the untreated
group.  Androgen deprivation therapy drugs cited last year by the
FDA under their watch list included Zoladex from London-based
AstraZeneca; Lupron from Abbott Park, Illinois-based  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) , and its generic equivalents, Trelstar from Watson
Pharmaceuticals in Corona,  California , and Vantas  from Endo
Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc. (ENDP)  in Chadds Ford,  Pennsylvania .  The study was funded by the Joint Center for Radiation
Therapy Foundation, a Doris Duke Clinical Research Fellowship
and private donors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 