-- 
Prudential Sells Real Estate Brokerage Unit to Brookfield

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-12-06T23:08:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/prudential-sells-real-estate-brokerage-relocation-business-to-brookfield.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-biggest U.S. life insurer, sold its real estate brokerage
and relocation business to a unit of  Brookfield Asset Management
Inc. (BAM/A)  for proceeds of about $110 million.  The deal with Brookfield Residential Property Services
excludes a financing subsidiary with investments in some
brokerage franchisees, Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential said
today in a statement. The business had a net book value of about
$25 million as of Sept. 30, the insurer said in a regulatory
filing.  The acquisition makes Brookfield Residential the second-
largest global relocation operation and third-largest
residential real estate brokerage in  North America , Stephanie
Slipher, an outside spokeswoman for Brookfield, said in an e-mail.  “This transaction creates a global employee-relocation
services and real estate franchising leader,” Graham Badun,
chief executive officer of Brookfield Residential, said in a
separate statement. “We have now increased the breadth and
depth of our service offering.”  Prudential, led by CEO John Strangfeld, has been selling
assets to focus on life insurance and retirement products in the
U.S. and  Japan . The insurer sold its commodities group to
Jefferies Group Inc. this year and a stake in a securities
brokerage unit to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in 2009.  Brookfield Asset Management  is a Toronto-based investment
firm that manages about $150 billion, with interests in both
commercial and residential property, power generation and
infrastructure projects.  Some brokerages will be able to continue to operate under
the Prudential brand based on the terms of their franchise
agreements, the companies said in their statements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  