-- 
Putin May Enlist Growing Parliamentary Opposition to Smooth Presidency Bid

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-12-07T17:43:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/putin-may-co-opt-growing-duma-opposition-to-smooth-kremlin-bid.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
may lean on strengthened parliamentary opposition on issues from
foreign policy to taxes, smoothing his return to the presidency,
policy makers and political scientists said.  The Communists, the nationalist Liberal Democrats and the
Just Russia party won a combined 212 seats in the 450-member
State Duma, the lower house of parliament, as discontent with
stalling wage growth eroded the support of Putin’s  United
Russia . Thousands of people have been pouring on Moscow’s
streets over the past two days to protest election results, with
another mass rally planned for Dec. 10.  Putin, 59, who wants to return to the Kremlin in March, may
seek to broaden his support in the legislature as he works to
shore up his backing after United  Russia ’s biggest election
setback since it was created a decade ago. The Duma opposition’s
ties with the government may guarantee their cooperation, said
Kirill Rogov, a member on one of the panels reviewing the
government’s Strategy 2020 for Putin.  “They aren’t opposition parties as such and are well
enough integrated in the current political system, so they pose
no threat to the political regime,” he said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Stocks Tumble  The ruble-denominated Micex Index of 30 stocks fell 0.7
percent today, adding to yesterday’s 4 percent drop for the
biggest-two day decline since Nov. 21. The ruble slid for a
fifth day, weakening 0.3 percent to 31.2999 per dollar to the
lowest level in more than a week.  The Solidarity movement, an umbrella opposition group,
plans to stage a protest rally on Dec. 10 on one of the squares
bordering the Kremlin, which may attract no less than 10,000
people, Olga Shorina, a spokeswoman for Solidarity, said by
phone today.  Just Russia and the Yabloko party will take part in the
demonstration, she said. About 1,000 protesters have been
detained so far, according to Shorina.  ‘Snowball’  “Investors are concerned that this will snowball into a
concerted display of mass popular dissent,” Julian Rimmer, a
trader of Russian shares at CF Global Trading in  London , said in
an e-mail. “In a country with a history like Russia’s it’s only
sensible to pay attention to developments like this, but
perspective needs to be maintained.”  The parliamentary opposition supported the Kremlin, even
with its two-thirds majority in the past four years, on
“politically important” occasions such as extending the terms
of the president and the State Duma and the recognition of two
regions that broke away from  Georgia , Stanislav Belkovsky, an
analyst at the Institute for National Strategy in Moscow, said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  “Whenever the parliamentary opposition’s support was
needed by the Kremlin, the Kremlin got it,” he said. “Always
and without exception. United Russia could have passed the laws
unilaterally, since it had more than 300 seats, but politically
it was important that the opposition parties also supported the
amendments.”  In August 2008, 447 of the Duma’s 450 deputies voted to
recognize South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent states, with
no votes against or abstentions. Three months later, 392
lawmakers were in favor of extending the terms of the parliament
and the president, with 57 Communists voting against it.  ‘Coalition Bloc’  United Russia will have to enter into “coalition bloc
agreements” to execute its policy agenda in the new parliament
and avoid being “bogged down” by disputes, President  Dmitry Medvedev , head of United Russia’s party list, told supporters in
Moscow on Dec. 4 after balloting ended.  The ruling party may opt to ignore the opposition agenda
and continue to use its parliamentary majority to adopt its
initiatives, Sergei Markov, a pro-government lawmaker who
advises the Kremlin, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  ‘Absolute Majority’  “United Russia will have an absolute majority in the Duma
and can adopt all laws including the budget, unless it’s a
constitutional change, singlehandedly without any need entering
any coalitions,” Markov said.  The election lacked fairness as United Russia benefited
from uneven access to state resources and media coverage, the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in  Europe  said in a
Dec. 5 report on the vote. The rules were also stacked against
the parties that were the most critical of the Kremlin, it said.  “These elections were like a game in which only some
players are allowed on the pitch, and then the field is tilted
in favor of one of the players,” Heidi Tagliavini, head of the
watchdog’s observation mission, said in a statement. “Although
the choice was limited and the competition lacked fairness,
voters were able to come out and have their voices heard.”  As the Communists, who got 19.2 percent of the vote and
Just Russia, which won 13.2 percent, campaign for increased
social spending, the Kremlin may have to compromise on some
budget measures to win their support, said Yevgeny Volk, an
analyst at the Heritage Foundation research group in Moscow.  ‘Lobbying Capability’  The opposition’s “lobbying capability increases when it
comes to concrete economic policy.” Rogov said. “They will
compete in populism on the economic field.”  After balancing this year’s budget, Russia will probably
run a 2012 deficit of 1.5 percent of gross domestic product,
Putin said Nov. 16. The country, which posted budget surpluses
between 2000 and 2008, faces deficits of as much as 3 percent
through 2014 as oil prices fall, presidential aide  Arkady Dvorkovich  said in June.  The Communists are proposing nationalizing natural
resources and oppose state asset sales. Just Russia, which was
set up with Kremlin support before feuding with the government,
campaigned for increased social spending. The Liberal Democrats
have also criticized state asset sales as “the complete theft
of state property.”  “The Duma has become more leftist, more populist,” said
Volk at Heritage. “It is a signal that people want more social
benefits. The degree of opposition is insignificant but no one
wants to compromise themselves in front of the electorate.”  Policy areas where United Russia is able to co-operate with
the opposition may include taxes on the rich, he said.  Just Russia is ready to join coalitions with other factions
that support its initiatives, leader Sergei Mironov, who wants
to run for president next year, said on Dec. 5, RIA Novosti
reported.  The three parties will “dance to the tune of United
Russia,” said  Boris Nemtsov , former deputy prime minister under
the ex-President  Boris Yeltsin , whose opposition Parnas group
was banned from the elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  