-- 
Cesium in Baby Milk Powder Shows Lingering Threat of Radiation in Japan

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-12-07T06:58:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/radioactive-cesium-found-in-meiji-baby-formula-spurs-recall-shares-fall.html
Radioactive cesium was found in milk
powder in Japan made by a  Meiji Holdings Co.  unit, raising
concern that nuclear radiation is contaminating  baby food .  Meiji the past week found traces of cesium-137 and cesium-
134 in batches of “Meiji Step” made in March, the Tokyo-based
company said yesterday. The probe was triggered by a customer
complaint last month. Levels in the 850-gram (30-ounce) cans are
within safe limits and don’t pose a health risk, Meiji said.  The finding highlights the radiation threat to food in
Japan nine months after the Fukushima nuclear plant was wrecked
by an earthquake and tsunami. Prolonged exposure to radiation in
the air, ground and food can damage DNA, causing leukemia and
other cancers. While infants are especially susceptible, the
contamination may not be a significant threat if limited to
small quantities in isolated batches, said Slim Dinsdale, a food
safety consultant based in Norwich,  England .  “If it’s just a one-off, ‘safe’ dose then it may well be
of a similar level to the background levels” residents are
routinely exposed to, Dinsdale said in a telephone interview.
“I’d want to avoid cesium if I knew it was there, whether it
was a safe dose or not.”  Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its  rating (2269)  on Meiji to “neutral”
from “buy,” citing consumer perceptions about the safety of
the company’s products.  “The impact to earnings isn’t expected to be so large,”
Keiko Yamaguchi, a consumer-products analyst at Nomura in Tokyo,
said in a report yesterday. Any rumors about product quality may
dent sales of other Meiji products, she said.  ‘Pretty Small’  Tests conducted on Dec. 3 and 4 found Cesium-134 at levels
as high as 15.2 becquerels per kilogram, while cesium-137
reached 16.5 Bq/kg, according to Meiji. A becquerel is a measure
of radioactivity. The maximum permissible level for milk and
dairy products for infants is 200 Bq/kg, the company said.  As a result of the tests, the company said it’s recalling
400,000 cans of “Meiji Step,” a powdered milk formulated for
babies older than nine months, packaged in April and mostly
distributed in May. The affected cans expire in October 2012.  “The dose is pretty small,” said  Richard Wakeford , a
visiting professor in epidemiology at the University of
Manchester’s Dalton Nuclear Institute. It wouldn’t be necessary
to ban the products from a radiological protection point of view,
he said. “But you can understand the kind of pressure that the
manufacturer would be under in these circumstances.”  Shares Rebound  Meiji  rose 5.1 percent to 3,175 yen at the 3 p.m. close on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange, rebounding from a 9.7 percent decline
yesterday to a 30-month low. Rival  Morinaga Milk Industry Co. 
jumped 3.6 percent to 285 yen and  Megmilk Snow Brand Co. 
advanced 4.6 percent to 1,475 yen.  Nine-month-old babies would typically consume from 400
milliliters (14 ounces) to 700 milliliters of milk, including 56
grams to 98 grams of powder,  Japan ’s National Institute of
Radiological Science said in an e-mailed response to questions.
Daily consumption of the contaminated product could yield about
0.07 microsievert of radiation for a 9-month-old baby and 0.03
microsievert for a 1-year-old toddler, it said.  The majority of other Meiji milk products produced around
the time that the contaminated items were made weren’t found to
have cesium levels above 5 becquerels per kilogram, the
institute said.  The products were made at a factory in Saitama prefecture,
about 200 kilometers southwest of the Fukushima plant, between
March 14 and March 20, the company said. The raw milk had been
produced before the March 11 disaster and water used in the
production process wasn’t found to be contaminated, Meiji said.  Radiation Plume  The monitoring didn’t detect radioactive materials in
Meiji’s “Hohoemi” brand, the company said. Retailers Seven & I
Holdings Co. and Aeon Co. said they are offering to replace the
recalled products.  Radioactive barium, cesium, iodine and tellurium were
detected March 16 in a radiation plume released by damaged
nuclear reactors at Fukushima. A partly dispersed cloud passed
by the Tokyo area the same day,  Austria ’s Meteorological and
Geophysics Center reported.  The presence of cesium at the levels found indicates
contamination from nuclear fission products, possibly as a
result of explosions at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima
plant, said Stephen Lincoln, a professor of chemistry at the
University of Adelaide in  South Australia .  “There is only one source of cesium in that milk: nuclear
fission from a nuclear reactor or spent fuel,” Lincoln said in
an interview yesterday. “There may be parts around Fukushima
that will have to be evacuated for 100 years. There is no way
you can make radioactive decay happen more swiftly.”  In and Out  In a nuclear accident, radioactive isotopes including
iodine-131 and cesium-137, which are normally contained inside
the fuel rods, may be released into the atmosphere as gases or
particulates if the rods are damaged. These can be inhaled or
ingested through contaminated food or water. Children are
especially susceptible to radiation poisoning from iodine, which
can accumulate in the thyroid gland, according to the  World
Health Organization .  Cesium-137 that enters the body is distributed throughout
the soft tissues, especially in muscle. Cesium-137 is eliminated
faster from the body than other radionuclides, according to the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  “Slowly, but surely it will pass out of the body,” said
Lincoln.  Radiation is more dangerous for infants because their cells
are dividing more rapidly and radiation-damaged RNA may be
carried in more generations of cells, according to Lincoln.  The risk for children depends on the quantity of
radioactive cesium they consume or are exposed to, he said. If
contaminated milk powder is consumed for only a few days, most
of it will likely be eliminated within a month, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  