-- 
Rand Weakens, Ending Six-Day Rally, as S&P Warns on Euro Credit Downgrades

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-12-06T13:38:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/rand-weakens-ending-six-day-rally-as-s-p-warns-on-euro-credit-downgrades.html
The rand weakened against the dollar,
snapping a six-day rally, after  Standard & Poor’s  said it may
cut the credit ratings of 15 euro-area nations, damping demand
for riskier, emerging-market assets.  The rand retreated as much as 1.6 percent, and traded 0.6
percent weaker at 8.0548 per dollar as of 3:06 p.m. in
Johannesburg, paring a 6.7 percent gain in the previous six
days.  “S&P’s decision to put 15 of 17 euro zone countries on a
negative ratings watch has interrupted the bullish rand trend,”
John Cairns, a currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. The rand may extend its
decline “as the ratings news gets absorbed in the market,” he
added.  Emerging-market stocks (MXEF)  tumbled for the first day in seven
and  commodity prices  fell after S&P put countries including
Germany and  France  on review for possible downgrade, saying a
decision may be made following a summit of European Union
leaders on Dec. 9.  South Africa ’s  benchmark stock index 
declined, led by commodity exporters including Anglo American
Plc.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy said in a joint statement yesterday, saying a
closer fiscal union in the EU will “strengthen coordination of
budget and economic policy,” and promote stability and growth.
S&P’s warning will add impetus to efforts to resolve the debt
crisis, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  South African bonds weakened, driving yields higher for the
first time in seven days. The yield on 13.5 percent notes due
2015 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.71
percent.  “The correlation between local bond yields and the dollar-
rand has been strongly positive in recent weeks,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at Tradition Analytics,
and colleagues wrote in an e-mail. “Local bonds yields will
also be likely to tick higher in the coming week into the
European summit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  