-- 
Transport Department Says Ministry Could Sell Assets in ‘Beach Babe’ Memo

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-12-07T16:08:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/transport-department-says-ministry-could-sell-assets-in-beach-babe-memo.html
Canada ’s transportation ministry
could consider selling assets and privatizing airports to narrow
its role, the department said in a briefing note to Transport
Minister Denis Lebel. The memo also contained biographies of top
officials with self-descriptions such as “beach babe.”  The government is carrying out a review that “considers a
wide set of options for the future of the selected assets,”
including divestment, the briefing documents say, without
specifying which assets may be considered for divestment.  The documents are part of a briefing book prepared for new
ministers by departmental officials. Treasury Board President
 Tony Clement , who is responsible for the government’s financial
management, has asked all Canadian ministers and their
departments to find at least C$4 billion ($4 billion) in annual
spending cuts to help return the  country’s budget  to balance.  “Increasing financial constraints on governments at all
levels combined with new and emerging demands on Canada’s
transportation system mean the era of TC being ‘all things to
all people’ has passed,” the briefing note says, referring to
the department. Policies and programs need to be “reviewed and
refreshed,” which will require “tough choices and trade-
offs,” said the documents, which were stamped “secret” and
released to Bloomberg under Canada’s freedom-of-information law.  Transport Canada regulates safety of the country’s air,
rail, marine and road industries, with companies such as Air
Canada and Canadian National Railway Co. under its purview.
Lebel’s Transportation, Infrastructure and Communities portfolio
is responsible for 16 government-owned businesses including  VIA
Rail Canada Inc ., Canada Post and the Royal Canadian Mint.  Conflicting Roles  The department plays a “conflicting range of roles” in
the  transportation industry , said the documents prepared for
Lebel, who became minister May 18. The government continues to
subsidize “financially unsustainable” facilities and services,
such as small airports, and owns assets that are “not
critical,” such as land that includes a golf course, the
documents say.  Non-profit authorities manage the country’s biggest
airports under a policy introduced in 1994. Turning those
authorities into for-profit companies “is seen by some as a
means to generate additional  revenue  for the federal
government,” which would be a “logical next step” toward
privatization, the documents say.  ‘Fire Sale’  Transport Canada should avoid a “fire sale” of its
assets, said Olivia Chow, a lawmaker with the  New Democratic
Party , the biggest federal opposition party.  Privatizing airports may force smaller ones to shut down,
depriving towns of vital services, said Chow, the party’s
spokeswoman on transport issues, who also said selling Canada
Post could threaten mail delivery in smaller centers.  Passengers would likely see higher fees if big airports
such as Toronto’s  Pearson International  are privatized, she
said. “They could hold millions of passengers complete hostage
by putting up fees in whatever amount they please,” she said in
a telephone interview today.  A spokeswoman for Lebel, Vanessa Schneider, said she was
unable to comment on potential asset sales, adding she would ask
the department for more information.  ‘Beach Babe’  The documents also include biographies with descriptions of
the personal interests of senior departmental officials, written
by the staff themselves, according to department spokesman Dan
Dugas. The biography of Deputy Minister Yaprak Baltacioglu, the
most senior bureaucrat in the department, describes her as “an
avid cook and working with her will result in weight gain.”  The biography of Doreen Gagnon, Baltacioglu’s acting
executive director, notes one of her “favorite sports is beach
volleyball. In her younger days, she was quite the beach babe.”  It’s “outrageous” and “unprofessional” for personal
information on senior officials to be included in briefing
material for an incoming minister, said C. Scott Clark, who
worked for 23 years in the country’s  Department of Finance  and
served as deputy minister between 1997 and 2000.  “That’s really awful stuff,” Clark said in a telephone
interview. “I would never allow anything like that, as a
deputy. In this day and age? This is the 21st Century, for
crying out loud.”  Chow said she had no problem with officials making light of
themselves in the documents. “I don’t care how they introduce
themselves, as long as they do their jobs as public servants,”
she said.  ‘12 Feet of Documents’  The biographical notes were meant to show a more detailed
picture of the senior staff in the ministry, Dugas said.  “Have you ever seen what a minister gets?” Dugas said by
telephone, referring to the briefing book. “It’s like 12 feet
of documents, right? We’d thought we’d lighten his day by
telling him who it is he’s working with.”  Bryce Conrad, assistant deputy minister of program
operations at Infrastructure Canada, “enjoys the sound of his
own voice and is an above-average dancer,” his biography said,
while Natalie Bosse, a director general in the deputy minister’s
office, was said to enjoy working at the department because of
“its proximity to Holt Renfrew,” an upscale department store.  Transport Canada  employed 5,346 full-time staff as of April
1, but plans to cut its number of full-time employees to 5,203
by the year ending March 2014, department  documents show .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  