-- 
Raphael ‘Pope Julius II’ Sold to Staedel May Be Original

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-12-06T15:35:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/raphael-pope-julius-ii-sold-to-frankfurt-staedel-museum-may-be-original.html
Frankfurt’s  Staedel Museum  acquired a
portrait of Pope Julius II that it says is an original by
Raphael and his workshop. Previously thought to be a copy, it
failed to sell at auction for $10,700 in 2007.  Versions of the same portrait hang in London’s National
Gallery and the Uffizi in Florence. The Staedel’s new
acquisition was offered at auction in Vienna as a “copy after
Raphael” with a low estimate of 8,000 euros ($10,700) in 2007,
according to the Dorotheum GmbH & Co. KG auction house.  The Staedel declined to name the price it paid, saying just
that it was “substantially below market value, thanks to the
goodwill of the seller,” a private German collector who lives
in  Switzerland  and was identified only as Ellermann. The
acquisition was “an exceptional stroke of luck,” said Jochen
Sander, who leads the Staedel’s Old Masters department.  Raphael’s portrait of Pope Julius II has served as a point
of reference for all subsequent papal portraits, including the
most recent. Julius II, the pope who commissioned Michelangelo
to paint the Sistine Chapel ceiling, is depicted sunk in
thought, in three-quarter profile, with a full white beard.  The Staedel said the portrait dates from 1511 to 1512. The
Uffizi version was once considered the original. A National
Gallery X-ray investigation in 1969, which showed that the
background in its version had been altered in the process of
painting, changed prevailing opinion to the view that the  London 
version was the original.  ‘Creative Changes’  Yet the Staedel’s version -- unlike the Uffizi or National
Gallery editions -- shows “extensive creative changes carried
out in the course of the painting’s execution” and
“exceedingly free underdrawing,” suggesting it was an early
version, according to the museum’s statement.  The National Gallery in London declined to comment on the
Staedel's discovery.  The Staedel said the painting has undergone extensive
investigation, including X-ray, infrared reflectography and
microscopic analyses. The tests showed that the armchair in
which Julius sits was initially in another position and that the
rendering of his nose and mouth changed during the sketching.  Most importantly, Sander said, X-rays showed that the
pope’s right hand was initially raised in a pointing gesture
rather than loosely nestled in the folds of his gown.  “If it were really a copy, then why would the artist first
put the hand in a completely different position from the
original?” Sander said in a telephone interview. “That would
make no sense. It was this discovery that electrified us.”  Gifts to Churches  Sander said it is known that Pope Julius II gave at least
two versions of the portrait as gifts to churches, and that
there may have been more.  He said it is possible that the Staedel’s new acquisition
served as a model for the others in Raphael’s studio. He said he
wouldn’t go as far as saying the  Frankfurt  version is “the
original” portrait instead of the London one.  “Raphael probably would have looked a bit disbelieving if
we asked him which was ‘the original,’” he said. “It is 19th-
century thinking to say there can only be one original and
nothing more. We are sure that the Frankfurt one was an early
version and had a key position within the process of this
important compositional invention.”  The painting’s provenance can be traced back to 1905
without interruption, the Staedel said. It was purchased in
1909/1910 by the artist and restorer Arthur Dawson of  New York ,
after he had worked on it. The New York Times published an
article in May 1910 quoting Dawson as saying he thought the
painting he discovered was the original.  Auction Flop  Another American collector bought it from Dawson in 1914,
and sent it to  Europe  to compare it with two paintings in
Florence. With the outbreak of World War I, it stayed in Europe
and was then donated by the family to a Viennese banker.  It was in his family until 2007, when Dorotheum put it up
for sale in Vienna. The estimated price in the catalog was
between 8,000 euros and 12,000 euros. The Dorotheum catalog said
the work had been attributed to both Raphael and Sebastiano del
Piombo in the past, and described it as a Raphael imitation.  “The painting didn’t sell at auction and has been rejected
by art historians repeatedly,” Doris Krumpl, the Dorotheum’s
spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail. “It was sold by the Dorotheum
after the auction, so the price isn’t public.”  Master’s Work  Juerg Meyer zur Capellen, a retired professor of art
history and the author of catalogs of Raphael’s work, said he
believes the painting is an original work by the studio and said
he detects the hand of the master in the painting. Asked whether
he was surprised that the painting was not accepted as an
original from Raphael’s workshop for so long, he said “not at
all.”  “I think many more workshop paintings will emerge,” Meyer
zur Capellen said by telephone from Muenster. “I wouldn’t rule
out that there are other Raphaels out there. This could happen
again.”  The Staedel acquired the portrait in 2010. The museum’s
managers decided to wait to make the announcement to coincide
with the reopening of the  Old Masters ’ wing of the museum after
renovation.  From November next year, Renaissance-art experts and the
public will have a chance to compare the Staedel’s Pope Julius
II with the versions in the  National Gallery  and the Uffizi when
all three are brought together in Frankfurt for a planned
exhibition at the Staedel.  “Our London and Florence colleagues are fully informed
about our exciting discovery,” said Sander. “This is the
beginning of a scholarly discourse. We will begin discussions
with them in detail very soon.”  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 