-- 
Travelers Cut Cash, Boosted Long-Term Holdings in Third Quarter, CEO Says

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-12-06T18:09:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/travelers-cut-cash-boosted-long-term-holdings-in-third-quarter-ceo-says.html
Travelers Cos. (TRV) , the lone insurer in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , is drawing down cash holdings
to buy longer-term assets as near-record low yields pressure
returns on the company’s investment portfolio.  “We did in the third quarter begin a process of reducing
our cash balances,” Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman said at
a conference held by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. today in New York.
“We really reassessed how much we needed to have on hand and
are in the process of actually redeploying some of those cash
balances more into our long-term portfolio.”  The operating return on equity for the company’s short-term
fixed-investment portfolio is about 0.1 percent this year,
compared with the 0.4 percent average annual return on the
assets from 2005 to 2010, according to a  presentation  on
Travelers’s website. The New York-based insurer lowered short-
term securities holdings 4.5 percent to $4.8 billion in the
three months ended Sept. 30, according to regulatory filings.  Fishman, 59, is boosting share buybacks and raising rates
for property coverage to improve return on equity after
tornadoes and  Hurricane Irene  contributed to higher-than-average
U.S. catastrophe costs, and near-record low  interest rates 
limited returns from bonds. The insurer has said it is
emphasizing  credit quality  as yields decline on its $64 billion
fixed-income portfolio.  Fishman said the company plans to buy back $1.1 billion to
$1.2 billion of shares in the fourth quarter, compared with a
projection of $1 billion in October. The insurer repurchased
$803 million in shares this quarter through Dec. 5, according to
the presentation.  Travelers rose 1.5 percent to $55.49 at 12:59 p.m. in New
York. The insurer had slipped 1.9 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with the 4.5 percent gain in the 30-company
Dow average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  