-- 
Treasuries Fail to Rally as France, Germany Seek Debt Rules for EU Treaty

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-12-06T06:56:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/treasuries-fall-as-france-germany-seek-eu-treaty-changes-on-debt-limits.html
Treasuries failed to rebound from a
loss yesterday after  Germany  and France said they want new
European Union rules on borrowing limits and penalties for
deficit violators to curb the region’s debt crisis.  Investors demanded 15 basis points of  extra yield  to buy
10-year German bonds instead of same-maturity U.S. notes, less
than half of what they required a week ago, as demand for the
relative safety of American debt eased. Treasuries have
fluctuated this year in response to developments in  Europe , with
the flight to quality sending U.S. 10-year rates to a record low
of 1.67 percent in September.  “Yields should be higher” in the U.S., said  Peter Jolly ,
the Sydney-based head of market research at National Australia
Bank Ltd., the nation’s largest lender as measured by assets.
“Close integration helps keep the euro together. It reduces the
bid for safe-haven assets.”  Benchmark U.S. 10-year  rates  were little changed at 2.05
percent as of 6:55 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent note due in November 2021 changed
hands at 99 17/32. The rate rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, yesterday.  Notes trimmed losses sustained earlier in  Asia  as stocks in
the region fell. The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXWD)  of shares slid 1.5
percent, the first loss in seven sessions.  Japan ’s 10-year rate fell one-half basis point to 1.04
percent. The yield has declined from the 1.09 percent level
reached on Dec. 1 that was the most since July.  Franco-German Platform  With the fate of the currency shared by the 17 countries at
risk, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy yesterday presented a common platform for a Dec.
8-9 EU summit in Brussels that aims to halt the three-year
crisis.  Treasuries trimmed losses yesterday after  Standard & Poor’s 
warned it may cut the credit ratings of Germany,  France  and 13
other euro members.  “We expect to conclude our review of euro-zone sovereign
ratings as soon as possible following the EU summit,” S&P said
in a statement. “Ratings could be lowered by up to one notch
for Austria, Belgium, Finland, Germany, Netherlands, and
Luxembourg, and by up to two notches for the other
governments.”  It’s too soon to start betting that Europe is solving its
debt crisis, said Zeal Yin, a  money manager  at Taipei-based Shin
Kong Life Insurance Co., after efforts to boost the 440 billion-
euro ($588 billion) rescue fund to 1 trillion euros failed last
month.  Insufficient Funding Sources  “I’m bullish,” on Treasuries, said Yin, who helps oversee
the equivalent of $51 billion at Taiwan’s second-largest life
insurer. “I don’t think they have the sources to raise the
funds. It’s a very big problem.”  The difference between the three-month London interbank
offered rate and the overnight  index (MXAP)  swap widened to 44 basis
points yesterday. The spread, which increases as banks become
less willing to lend to each other, was the most since 2009.  Ten-year Treasury rates will probably slide to 1.75 percent
in early 2012, according to Deutsche Bank AG, one of the 21
primary dealers that underwrite the  U.S. debt .  “It is too early to return to ‘risk on’ trades,” Dominic Konstam, the New York-based global head of rates research wrote
in a report. Deutsche Bank distributed the document, dated Dec.
2, yesterday by e-mail.  The  Federal Reserve  is  scheduled  to purchase as much as
$2.75 billion of Treasuries due from 2036 to 2041 today as part
of a plan announced in September to replace $400 billion of
shorter maturities in its holdings with longer-term debt to keep
rates down.  Australia  Rate Cut  Australia’s central bank lowered its benchmark interest
rate today for a second-straight month as Europe’s fiscal crisis
threatens to slow the nation’s commodity exports to Asia.
Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board reduced the bank’s target
for overnight lending by a quarter percentage point to 4.25
percent.  Demand for safety has driven Treasuries to a 8.9 percent
gain in 2011 as of yesterday, the most since 2008, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch figures. German bunds returned 7.1
percent and Japanese bonds advanced 1.8 percent.  The MSCI All Country World  Index  of stocks handed investors
a 5.2 percent loss in the period after accounting for dividends.  The Treasuries rally is coming to an end, judging by
forecasts from economists.  A Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies
projects U.S. 10-year yields will rise to 2.19 percent by year-
end, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings. National Australia’s Jolly predicts 2.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  