-- 
Three Vietnam Banks to Merge to Boost Liquidity, Cut Costs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-06T05:16:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/three-vietnam-banks-to-merge-to-boost-liquidity-cut-costs-1-.html
Three Vietnamese banks plan to merge
to bolster their liquidity and cut costs as a single entity, the
country’s central bank said.  First Commercial Joint-Stock Bank, Tin Nghia Commercial
Joint-Stock Bank and Saigon Commercial Joint-Stock Bank, which
are all unlisted and privately owned, will combine voluntarily
at an unspecified date, Governor Nguyen Van Binh said.  “The best interests of depositors in the banks are assured
as the central bank has supported their liquidity and the new
bank will also have state participation,” Binh said in a
statement posted on the central bank’s website today.  Binh is promoting bank mergers to strengthen a financial
sector that is challenged by funding constraints, rising bad
loans, and  inflation  around 20 percent. The  State Bank  of
 Vietnam  wants 15 “big” lenders by 2015 that make up about 80
percent of the local market, he told lawmakers last month.  “It’s clear that they have to reinforce their banking
sector -- increase the strength and size of the banks,” said
Jean-Jacques Bouflet, head of trade and economic affairs at the
Delegation of the European Union to Vietnam. Foreign banks
should “participate also in the strengthening of the sector. A
purely national, inward solution will not be enough,” he said.  The state-run Bank for Investment and Development of
Vietnam, the country’s third-largest lender by assets, will help
the three banks complete the merger, according to today’s
statement. The lender known as BIDV will also represent the
government’s stake in the new entity, and the central bank will
consider the size of its holding, the statement said.  The information was reported earlier by an online newswire
VnExpress.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  