-- 
Repsol Sees ‘Colossal’ Potential for Oil Output in Argentina

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-12-06T17:52:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/repsol-sees-colossal-potential-for-oil-output-in-argentina.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP)  sees “colossal”
potential for producing oil and natural gas from unconventional
fields in  Argentina , where it’s exploring for resources, Chief
Executive Officer Antonio Brufau Niubo said.  “What is very clear is that there’s a new frontier” for
oil production, Brufau told reporters today in Doha, Qatar.
“There’s a new place that will deliver a lot of long-term
production of hydrocarbons.” The company expects to spend
“about $30” for each barrel of oil it develops in an initial
segment of the deposit it’s exploring there, he said.  Repsol,  Spain ’s biggest oil company, is exploring in the
Vaca Muerta shale site in Argentina, the largest discovery in
the company’s history. The first section of the reservoir the
company has tested contains 927 million barrels of recoverable
resources of oil equivalent and non-conventional hydrocarbons,
Brufau said at the World Petroleum Congress in Qatar’s capital.  International  oil companies  are seeking oil and gas
resources that are buried tight within rock formations or deep
undersea and are accessible only with new technology as they aim
to meet growing demand and offset declines in older fields.  Repsol is only working in about 1,000 of the 30,000 square
kilometers (11,600 square miles) that the Vaca Muerte deposit
covers so it’s too early to know the total production potential
for the fields, Brufau said. The company’s allotted segment of
Vaca Muerta is 12,000 square kilometers.  The company has explored an initial area of 400 square
kilometers and is now testing a second area of 500 square
kilometers, Brufau said.  “We need a lot of money” to develop the first section, he
said. “Let’s assume that to produce 1 barrel it will cost
around $30 of finding and development” and operating expenses
to pump the more than 900 million barrels of oil potential
there, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Doha at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 