-- 
Romney, Gingrich Agree With Obama on Payroll Tax Cut

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-12-06T16:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/romney-joins-gingrich-in-lining-up-with-obama-on-payroll-tax-cut-extension.html
Republican presidential front-runners
Mitt Romney and  Newt Gingrich  are on President Barack Obama’s
side in extending a payroll-tax break, even as the measure bogs
down in partisan conflict in the U.S. Senate.  “I would like to see the payroll tax cut extended just
because I know that working families are really feeling the
pinch right now,” Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts,
said yesterday on Michael Medved’s radio show. “Middle-class
Americans are having a hard time.”  Gingrich, in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
September, also backed the extension. “I am against tax
increases in the middle of a depression,” Gingrich said.  Senate Democrats are seeking another vote this week on a
payroll tax cut plan that would be partially paid for with a 1.9
percent surtax on annual incomes exceeding $1 million. A similar
surtax proposal won the backing of only one Republican last
week, Senator  Susan Collins  of Maine.  Obama has said Republicans are willing to protect tax cuts
for the wealthy, “yet barely lift a finger to prevent taxes
going up for 160 million Americans who really need the help.”  The new comments from Romney may show that Obama’s
criticism “has hit home,” said  Rogan Kersh , a public policy
professor at  New York University . “The president has at least
temporarily found a compelling economic issue: painting the GOP
as supporting extension of the Bush tax cut for the wealthy but
opposing this middle-class payroll tax cut extension.”  Obama’s Response  Ben LaBolt , spokesman for Obama’s re-election campaign,
cast Romney’s comments as new evidence of his contradictions.  “After belittling the middle class tax cut the president
proposed by calling it a ‘little Band-Aid,’ and saying he ‘is
not looking to put money in people’s pockets -- that’s the other
party,’  Mitt Romney  flip-flopped and now says he’s
for it,” LaBolt said in a statement issued today.  The  Democratic National Committee  jumped on Romney’s
remarks, saying he was changing positions. During an Oct. 11
Republican presidential debate hosted by Bloomberg News and the
Washington Post, Romney said he didn’t want to see “temporary
little Band-Aids” when asked about a payroll tax-cut extension.  “Now that public support has increased for an extension of
the payroll tax cut, Mitt Romney is jumping on the bandwagon
once again to support a plan he previously opposed,” the DNC
said in an e-mail to reporters.  Romney’s spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, disputed the DNC’s
claims. Romney hasn’t previously opposed the  payroll tax  cut; he
has said he wants bigger changes, she said.  “Governor Romney has never met a tax cut he didn’t like,”
Saul said in an e-mail today. “He has made it clear that he
does not believe that by itself the payroll tax cut will create
the type of permanent long-term change that is needed to turn
the economy around.”  Gingrich’s Take  Gingrich, a former U.S. House speaker from Georgia, has
also said he wants more relief from levies.  “We should extend tax cuts for working Americans, just as
I would extend the Bush tax cuts,” Gingrich said in September.  In addition to continuing tax cuts passed under former
President  George W. Bush , Gingrich said he favored eliminating
the tax on capital gains and estates and would cut the top
corporate rate to 12.5 percent from 35 percent. He also would
create an optional flat tax for individuals at 15 percent.  If Congress doesn’t act by Dec. 31, the current 4.2 percent
payroll tax for employees will climb to 6.2 percent in 2012.
That might shave half of one percentage point from U.S. gross
domestic product next year, according to  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics.  Senate Proposal  Legislation proposed by Senate Democrats yesterday would
cut the payroll tax paid by employees to 3.1 percent next year.
The new millionaire surtax, along with higher fees charged to
lenders by government-owned mortgage giants  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
 Freddie Mac (FMCC) , would help cover the $185 billion cost of
extension. The plan also would introduce means-testing
eligibility for unemployment compensation and  food stamps .  To address the concerns of Republicans, the new measure
reduces the proposed surtax to 1.9 percent from 3.25 percent and
includes ideas raised during negotiations of the bipartisan
congressional supercommittee. The proposal also eliminates a
planned payroll tax cut for employers, reducing the cost.  Democrats control 53 seats in the Senate and need at least
a few Republicans to join them to get the 60 votes needed for
passage. While Collins supported the earlier proposal, three
members of the Democratic caucus opposed it.  Republican leaders said it was unlikely that they could
support the latest plan.  Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, said, “The only
thing bipartisan about adding a tax hike on job creators is the
opposition.”  House Plan  House Republicans intend to propose legislation in coming
days that would extend the 4.2 percent employee payroll tax rate
for a year. House lawmakers also will seek to avoid cuts to
physician reimbursements by Medicare and address expanded
 unemployment benefits  set to expire at the end of the year.  Republican presidential candidates are smart to line up
with anyone who wants to cut taxes, said Clyde Wilcox, a
government professor at  Georgetown University  in  Washington .  “Everyone assumes that backing any tax increase is the
kiss of death,” Wilcox said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  