-- 
Rothschild’s Zurich Wealth Unit Targets Growth in ‘Old’ Markets

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-12-06T06:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/rothschild-s-zurich-wealth-unit-targets-growth-in-old-markets.html
Rothschild Group’s wealth management
unit in Zurich plans to meet targets for increasing assets by
focusing on “old” markets in  Europe  as a crackdown on  tax
evasion  crimps margins at Swiss private banks.  “The onshore markets are the fastest-growing markets in
our bank,” said Thomas Pixner, head of private clients at
Rothschild Wealth Management and Trust. “Everybody told us four
years ago ‘forget about old markets; you can’t grow anymore,’
but we’ve created a lot of growth.”  Rothschild aims for “high single-digit” percentage annual
growth in assets under management from the 11.8 billion euros
($15.9 billion) reported on March 31.  Rothschild, which traces its roots to family banking
dynasty started by Mayer Amschel Rothschild in the 1760s,
expects to win new clients as German entrepreneurs sell
businesses over the next 10 years, said Riccardo Petrachi, who
was hired this year from UBS AG to head the bank’s ultra-high-
net-worth unit. The U.K. is another core market for Rothschild,
which requires at least 1 million euros to open an account.  At least half of the Zurich wealth business is in cross-
border accounts held by clients from countries including the
U.K.,  Spain  and  France . Some customers have asked to transfer
money to onshore accounts amid a global crackdown on tax
evasion, said Pixner, who declined to comment on the
profitability of different types of client.  Switzerland  reached agreements with  Germany  and the U.K.
this year over taxation of undeclared bank accounts. Revenue
generated from the tax on investment and capital gains will go
to the German and U.K. treasuries while client identities remain
secret.  The Zurich-based firm competes in Switzerland with Banque
Privee Edmond de Rothschild, the Geneva arm of the Rothschild
family.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  