-- 
RTS Futures Fall on Europe as Mechel Advances: Russia Overnight

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-12-06T03:49:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/rts-futures-fall-on-europe-ratings-as-mechel-adrs-climb-russia-overnight.html
Russian stock  futures  declined as oil
gave up its advance after  Standard & Poor’s  said Germany and
France may be stripped of their AAA credit ratings.  Futures expiring in December on the dollar-denominated RTS
index lost 0.7 percent to 154,680 during U.S. trading hours. The
 Bloomberg Russia-US 14 Index  of Russian companies traded in  New
York  added 1.5 percent to 101.39, led by  OAO Mechel (MTL) ,  Russia ’s
largest coal producer for steelmakers, after  iron ore  prices
increased.  Crude futures in New York dropped as much as 0.6 percent in
after-hours trading today after S&P said it would change the
rating outlook for 15 euro nations, including the two largest.
Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, counts  Europe  as
its top trading partner and the largest market for state-run  OAO
Gazprom. (OGZPY)  Companies in the Moscow-based Micex index trade at an
average 5.3 times analysts’ profit estimates, the lowest
valuation among 21 major  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  “Investors collectively remain skeptical about how fixable
the problems are in Europe,” said Lewis Kaufman, a  Santa Fe ,
New Mexico-based money manager at Thornburg Investment
Management, who oversees the Thornburg Developing World Fund and
helps manage $79 billion. “There is relatively good value in a
lot of blue-chip Russian stocks but it’s very hard to quantify
adverse developments in Europe and what they could mean if
things go awry.”  Kaufman’s fund owns shares in  OAO Sberbank , Russia’s
largest lender, and  Yandex NV , the operator of Russia’s most
popular Internet search engine.  Brent, Urals Drop  Crude for January delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  lost 0.5 percent to $100.47 a barrel as of 11:43 a.m.
Hong Kong time. Prices are up 9.9 percent this year.  Brent oil for January settlement slid 13 cents to $109.81
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange while Urals
crude, Russia’s chief export blend, retreated 0.4 percent to
$110.19. Oil and natural gas contribute about 17 percent of
Russia’s gross domestic product.  Germany, France, the Netherlands, Austria, Finland and
Luxembourg, the euro area’s six AAA rated countries, are among
the nations being placed on “CreditWatch negative,” pending
the result of a summit of European Union leaders on Dec. 9, S&P
said.  S&P’s downgrade warnings come as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicolas Sarkozy push for a rewrite
of EU cooperation rules that would institute automatic penalties
for deficit violators while locking limits on debt into euro
states’ constitutions.  Rusal Declines  The Hong Kong-listed shares of  United Co. Rusal (486) , the
world’s largest aluminum producer, sank 3 percent to HK$5.52.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped 1.3 percent, the most since
Nov. 23.  The  RTS Volatility Index , which measures expected swings in
the index futures, rose for a second day yesterday, gaining 1.2
percent to 46.08 points. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-
traded fund that holds Russian shares, advanced for the first
time in three days, adding 1.8 percent to $30.85.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI index  of 24 raw materials fell 0.1
percent to 657.52 while copper futures rose to a four-week high.
Copper for March delivery climbed 0.9 percent to close at
$3.6155 a pound on the Comex in New York.  The  Micex (INDEXCF)  has lost 10 percent in 2011, which compares with
a 15 percent slide for Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index, which trades at
10.6 times estimated earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  trades at 11.1 times
estimated earnings, and the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  has a
ratio of 14.4.  The Micex, which climbed to a one-month high in Moscow
yesterday, is beating all emerging-markets benchmark measures
this quarter for indexes in Thailand, Brazil and Hungary, with
an increase of 11.1 percent since Sept. 30.  Putin Setback  Russian Premier  Vladimir Putin ’s United Russia party
suffered its first election setback in a Dec. 4 parliamentary
vote, winning 49.5 percent compared with 64.3 percent four years
ago. Putin, who is seeking to switch jobs next year with
President  Dmitry Medvedev  by running for president, may have to
contend with a more fractured legislature than when he was
president between 2000 and 2008.  “The results remove uncertainty as to what the government
will look like, and allows investors to recognize that for the
first time in 15 years, Russian companies are paying
shareholders to be shareholders,” said  Roland Nash , chief
investment strategist at Moscow-based hedge fund Verno Capital,
which manages more than $150 million in Russia.  Russian companies including Moscow-based Gazprom are
increasing dividends to attract investors while  OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel (NILSY)  has bought back shares, signs that Russia’s companies are
responding to international money managers’ demands to improve
corporate governance, Nash said.  VimpelCom  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , the Russian mobile-phone operator with more
than 200 million subscribers worldwide, rose 2.3 percent to
$11.81 in New York after UralSib Financial Corp. reiterated its
“buy” recommendation on the stock.  “Investors have an opportunity to enter VimpelCom at
fundamentally attractive levels,” UralSib analysts, including
Konstantin Chernyshev, Konstantin Belov and Nikolay Dyachkov
said in the report. “Growth in both mobile and fixed-line
broadband is set to become the company’s key growth driver in
established markets. We expect 8 percent per annum average
organic sales growth in 2012 and 2013.”  VimpelCom said Jon Fredrik Baksaas, president and chief
executive officer of Telenor Group, will replace Jan Edvard Thygesen on its supervisory board, according to a statement
filed yesterday.  Mechel (MTLR) ’s American depositary receipts advanced 5.6 percent
to $11.74 after  shares  in Moscow gained 3.5 percent 354.90
rubles, or the equivalent of $11.49. One ADR represents one
ordinary share.  Yandex, CTC  Yandex NV  increased 0.6 percent to close at $21.48 in New
York after UralSib raised its recommendation on the stock to
“buy” from “hold,” the bank said in an e-mailed report
yesterday.  “Yandex has good exposure to the rapidly growing Russian
online advertising market, which we expect to expand,” UralSib
analysts said in the report. “Russia is the only country in
Europe where Google lags the local player in search. Yandex
should be the main beneficiary from internet penetration growth
in the regions.”  CTC Media Inc., (CTCM)  the Russian television network listed in
the U.S., gained 1 percent to $10.06 in New York after UlraSib
maintained its “buy” rating on the stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  