-- 
RWE Plummets in Frankfurt on $2.8 Billion Share Sale

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-12-06T17:05:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/rwe-drops-in-pre-market-trading-on-2-8-billion-share-sale-plan.html
RWE AG (RWE)  fell the most in more than a
month in Frankfurt trading after Germany’s second-largest
utility said it will raise about 2.1 billion euros ($2.8
billion) in a share sale to cut debt.  RWE fell 7.2 percent to 28.15 euros a share at the 5:30
p.m. close, after earlier slumping as much as 12 percent. The
shares are down 44 percent this year. The utility is selling
80.4 million shares at a price of 26 euros apiece, according to
a statement today.  “Talks about a looming rating downgrade and the capital
increase are over now and the stock has a great chance to
perform very well over the coming weeks and months,” Peter Wirtz, an analyst at WestLB AG, said by phone from Duesseldorf.  RWE, based in Essen, is raising as much as 11 billion euros
to reduce debt and help finance energy projects as  Germany  cuts
its reliance on nuclear power. The company is also selling
assets such as gas fields in  Egypt  as well as its Czech NET4GAS
gas-grid unit.  RWE had previously lowered the price range of the share
sale to 26 euros to 26.5 euros a share from 26 euros to 27.5
euros, according to a sales document obtained by Bloomberg News.
About 28.1 million of the shares being offered were treasury
shares, sold with subscription rights to existing shareholders,
while the rest are primary shares, RWE said.  Earnings Slump  The German utility saw third-quarter earnings slump 73
percent as it worked to phase out nuclear production, after
earlier slashing full-year profit targets.  The German government’s decision to close the country’s
nuclear power plants by 2022 was a “substantial” risk to RWE’s
earning power, the company has said. Germany decided to make
utilities pull out of atomic energy after  Japan ’s disaster in
March.  The capital increase will make an “important
contribution” in strengthening RWE’s balance sheet, said
Bernhard Jeggle, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are managing
the sale, according to the terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  