-- 
S&P Jumps Into Politics Again by Lowering Euro Debt Outlook Before Summit

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-12-06T16:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/s-p-jumps-into-politics-again-with-motive-for-cutting-eu-nation-outlooks.html
Standard & Poor’s , rebuked by  Warren Buffett  in August after downgrading the U.S. over government
gridlock, is again injecting itself into the political process,
just as European leaders are poised to meet for a summit aimed
at ending the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The ratings firm put Germany, France and 13 other euro-area
nations on review for a downgrade yesterday, saying “continuing
disagreements among European policy makers on how to tackle”
the region’s debt crisis risk damaging their financial
stability. The move came four months after S&P cut the U.S. to
AA+, saying “extremely difficult” political discussions over
how to reduce America’s more than $1 trillion budget deficit
tainted the credit quality of the world’s largest economy.  Bondholders questioned the timing of S&P’s move, with
European Union leaders planning to meet Dec. 8-9 in Brussels to
end a crisis that led to bailouts of Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal , and now threatens to engulf Italy. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  had presented
a plan earlier in the day to rewrite the EU’s governing treaty
to allow tighter economic cooperation.  “S&P should back off,” Anthony Valeri, a market
strategist with  LPL Financial  in San Diego, which oversees $330
billion, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It
complicates the job of the EU leaders to resolve the debt
problem.”  $8.1 Trillion  Grades may be lowered by one level for  Austria , Belgium,
Finland, Germany, Netherlands and Luxembourg, and as many as two
steps for the other governments if the summit results don’t
satisfy S&P’s criteria, the firm said. More than $8.1 trillion
of government debt would be affected if S&P does downgrade all
the nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Germany 
and France are rated AAA.  “The crisis in the euro zone has now reached a level that
systemic stresses have become more tangible and a bigger threat
near term,”  Moritz Kraemer , S&P’s head of European sovereign
ratings, said today in a conference call with reporters. “It
has become a crisis of euro zone governance.”  Kraemer denied that the company was trying to influence
politics.  ‘Elected Officials’  “Of course we’re not in the business of policy making,
that’s the business of elected officials,” he said. “Our role
is to assess the risk to capital markets investors and call
those risks as we see them developing.”  The yield on France’s 10-year bond jumped 12 basis points
as of 9:13 a.m. in  New York , with the similar maturity German
bund yield reversing an earlier advance to trade little changed.
The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index lost 0.3 percent and the euro
weakened 0.2 percent to $1.3371.  The move to tie ratings to the outcome of the summit drew
criticism from  European Central Bank  Governing Council member
Ewald Nowotny of Austria, who said today at a conference in
Vienna that S&P was “politically motivated” with the
announcement.  “The timing and the scope of this warning has a clearly
political context -- a rating agency has entered the political
arena,” he said.  European Central Bank governing council member  Christian Noyer  lambasted S&P for basing its judgment on politics.  “They changed their methodology and it’s now more linked
to political factors and less to fundamentals,” Noyer said
today at the Financium conference in Paris. “The rating
agencies fueled the crisis in 2008 and we can question whether
they’re not doing the same thing in the current crisis.”  S&P Was Right  S&P was right to assess the ability of European policy
makers to handle the crisis as politics are now driving economic
outcomes, according to Ashok Parameswaran, an emerging-markets
analyst at Invesco Advisers Inc.  “S&P’s view is that the political outcome will also drive
creditworthiness, and I don’t think anyone in their right mind
would dispute this point,” he said today in an e-mail.  Finding a solution to Europe’s debt crisis took on greater
urgency last month as  yields  on Italy’s debt surged past the 7
percent threshold that led  Greece , Ireland and Portugal to seek
aid. Italy has 500 billion euros ($669 billion) of bonds
maturing in the next three years, more than the current size of
the EU’s rescue fund.  U.S. Downgrade  In a joint statement yesterday, the governments of France
and Germany said they “recognize” the move by S&P and “affirm
their conviction that the common proposals made today will
strengthen coordination of budget and economic policy, and
promote stability, competitiveness and growth.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today in
Vienna that S&P’s warning will help force European leaders to
ratchet up efforts to resolve the crisis this week. The
statement will prompt European leaders “to do what we’ve
promised, namely to take the necessary decisions step-by-step
and to win back the confidence of global investors,” he said.  New York-based S&P, a unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , downgraded
the U.S. to AA+ on Aug. 5 from AAA, saying the U.S. government
is becoming “less stable, less effective and less
predictable.”  While the S&P 500 Index of U.S. stocks plunged 6.7 percent
on the first trading day after the downgrade, Treasuries
rallied, sending yields to record lows. Treasuries due in 10
years or more are 2011’s best-performing sovereign securities,
returning 26 percent as of Nov. 30, according to Bloomberg/EFFAS
indexes.  The ratings company’s decision on the U.S. was flawed by a
$2 trillion error, according to the Treasury Department. S&P
disputed the Treasury’s assertions and said using the
department’s preferred spending measures in its analysis didn’t
affect its credit grade.  EFSF Rating  Buffett, the billionaire chairman of Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. and the world’s most successful investor, said S&P erred
and the U.S. should be rated “quadruple-A.” Buffett is also
the largest shareholder of  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , the parent of Moody’s
Investors Service.  Downgrades of Germany and France would affect the rating of
the 780 billion euro European Financial Stability Facility, the
bailout fund for struggling euro member countries that has
funded rescue packages for Greece, Ireland and Portugal
partially through bond sales. The EFSF may lose its top credit
grade if any of its guarantors are downgraded, S&P said in a
statement today.  If the EFSF has to pay higher interest on its bonds, it may
not be able to provide as much funding for indebted nations.
Yields on the EFSF’s 3.375 percent bonds due in July 2021 rose 2
basis points at 9:18 a.m. today in New York to 3.62 percent,
according to Bloomberg prices.  Proposed Rules  Regulators have tried and failed to rein in credit-rating
companies, which the  U.S. Congress  has said helped fuel the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression by assigning
top grades to subprime mortgage bonds,  Chris Rupkey , chief
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New
York, said in a telephone interview.  “Why are they pulling the trigger now?” Rupkey said.
“There’s a danger of putting too much power in the hands of
these institutions and causing in effect a race to the bottom.”  The EU proposed rules last month to increase regulation of
the credit-rating companies while postponing plans to ban them
from giving assessments of countries negotiating international
bailouts.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief,
said that he didn’t think S&P was retaliating.  ‘Just an Opinion’  “It’s just an opinion,” he said in an e-mailed statement
from Brussels today. “I don’t think that the agencies are
avenging themselves against our proposals. I can’t imagine
that.”  S&P also cited “high levels of government and household
indebtedness across a large area of the eurozone” and the
increased risk of a recession in 2012 as reasons for yesterday’s
change in outlook. The firm said economic output in Spain,
Portugal and Greece will likely fall next year, and that there’s
now a 40 percent chance of a decline for the entire region.  The “negative” outlook on CC rated Greece, which is 10
steps below investment quality, wasn’t changed, as its grade
“connotes our belief that there is a relatively high near-term
probability of default,” S&P said. The firm kept its
“negative” outlook on Cyprus’s long-term rating and placed its
short-term rating on “creditwatch with negative implications.”  ‘Full Fiscal Union’  Europe may stem its debt crisis by moving to a “full
fiscal union” in which all countries assume responsibility for
the euro area’s sovereign debt or by “a much larger
commitment” by the ECB to support sovereign-debt markets,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Nov. 30 in a research note.  The threat of a downgrade may make it more difficult for
Merkel to convince the German people that supporting peripheral
nations is in their interest, Noel Hebert, a credit strategist
at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. in New York, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  “If it starts threatening the creditworthiness of the
country itself, that’s a much harder row to hoe for Germany,”
Hebert said. “It heightens the internal tensions that Merkel
has politically.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  