-- 
Samsung, Biogen Idec Agree to Set Up $300 Million Venture

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-12-06T05:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/samsung-biogen-idec-agree-to-set-up-300-million-venture.html
Samsung Biologics Co. agreed to set
up a $300 million venture with  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  to develop and
sell biomedical products as  South Korea ’s largest business group
seeks to boost its health-care operations.  Samsung Biologics, a drug manufacturer set up in April by
Samsung Group companies and  Quintiles Transnational Corp. , will
own 85 percent of the venture, to be based in South Korea,
according to a joint statement distributed by Samsung Group. The
new company will develop, make and sell biosimilars, or copies
of biopharmaceuticals, which won’t include versions of Biogen’s
proprietary products, according to the statement.  The agreement lets Samsung Group team up with the world’s
largest maker of medicines for multiple sclerosis to make
biologic drugs, one of five new businesses Samsung Chairman Lee Kun Hee has singled out as sources of future growth.  Samsung
Group  plans to spend 2.1 trillion won ($1.9 billion) in an
effort to generate more than 1.8 trillion won a year from
biopharmaceuticals by 2020.  “We are taking a significant step toward becoming a major
player in the biopharmaceutical industry and investing in an
important growth engine for our company,” Kim Tae Han, chief
executive officer of Samsung Biologics, said in today’s
statement.  Samsung Group plans to begin making biosimilars in 2016,
starting with Biogen and Roche Holding AG’s Rituxan, used to
treat leukemia, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and rheumatoid arthritis,
Kim said in February. Until then, Samsung Biologics plans to
contract-manufacture medicines.  Patent Protection  Rituxan has patent protection in the U.S. until 2018 and in
the rest of the world through 2013, Nina Schwab, a Roche
spokeswoman, said in May last year. It generated sales of $6.11
billion last year, making it the world’s ninth best-selling
medicine, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung Group ultimately aims to develop its own
biopharmaceuticals after gaining experience in making them
through partnerships with other companies, Kim said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  