-- 
Sanofi’s Lantus Doubled Cancer Risk in Study of Diabetics

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-12-07T18:19:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/sanofi-s-lantus-doubled-risk-of-cancer-in-study-of-diabetics-study-finds.html
Sanofi (SAN) ’s Lantus, the world’s top-
selling insulin with $4.7 billion in annual revenue, more than
doubled the risk of developing cancer among people with
diabetes, researchers said.  Diabetics who used Lantus had a 2.9-fold greater chance of
cancer, while those who took the generic drug metformin had an 8
percent lower risk, according to the study presented yesterday
at the  San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium . Researchers examined
medical records of 23,266 patients in southern Sweden.  The researchers were unable to identify which types of
cancer were most common among Lantus users, said Hakan Olsson,
lead researcher and professor of oncology at Lund University.
They plan to follow the patients, and investigate different
forms of diabetes treatment including  Novo Nordisk A/S ’s long-
acting insulin Levemir, to find any differences, he said.  “Women should be aware that diabetes and  breast cancer  may
be related,” Olsson said in a telephone interview. “The
diabetes itself could play a role in the development of cancer
and now data is emerging that drug therapy may also be important
in relation to cancer.”  It’s not the first time Lantus has been linked to cancer.
The once-a-day injected insulin was found to raise tumor risk in
two database reviews published in June 2009, while two others
showed no ties.  In January, an investigation by U.S. regulators found there
was no conclusive danger, and three trials are under way to
resolve the issue. In the new Swedish study, a diagnosis of
diabetes, regardless of treatment, raised women’s risk of
developing breast cancer for four years.  Study Flaws  The Swedish study released yesterday was too small and had
flaws that make it impossible to definitively address any
potential risk from Lantus, said Riccardo Perfetti, vice
president for medical affairs at Sanofi Diabetes in Paris. The
company is researching the question, with more robust results
expected by the end of the year, he said.  “I find it surprising that today after so many scientific
reports on this topic, we’re still discussing these very small
studies,” he said. “Patients using insulin may be compared to
patients not using insulin, which might be a gigantic
methodological mistake. People using insulin are usually much
older and have been diabetic for many years.”  Continuing Research  A Sanofi study from  Sweden ,  Norway ,  Finland ,  Denmark  and
 Scotland  is complete and will be submitted to health authorities
this month, Perfetti said. A U.S. study will be finished in
early 2012, while a final report from  Europe  will come later, he
said. Those studies, involving more than 1 million patients,
will help resolve any questions of risk, he said.  The company’s records, involving the equivalent of more
than 38 million patients taking the drug for at least a year,
show no danger, he said in a telephone interview.  A comprehensive review of studies released today at the
World Diabetes Congress in Dubai showed there is no increased
danger of breast cancer or any other tumor type among patients
taking Lantus, Sanofi said in an e-mailed statement today.  Sanofi shares rose 2 percent to 52.84 euros in Paris
trading. The stock has gained 10 percent this year.  The Swedish study is based on “uncontrolled retrospective
analyses” and therefore is “very unreliable,” Mark Clark, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  London , wrote in a note to
clients today. He has a “buy” recommendation on Sanofi shares.  Study Surprises  Concern about a potential cancer link hasn’t slowed
Lantus’s sales, which rose 12 percent to 3.51 billion euros
($4.7 billion) in 2010. It is Paris-based Sanofi’s best-selling
medication and generates more than twice the revenue of Levemir
from Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo Nordisk. Pierre Chancel, head
of the company’s diabetes division, said in September he expects
Lantus to reach sales of almost 4 billion euros this year.  Doctors and patients should be aware that there may be a
cancer risk from Lantus, Olsson said.  “We need more data to make definitive recommendations to
patients,” Olsson said. “If I was a patient and I had a
choice, I would already choose the one where don’t yet see any
cancer risk,” he said.  The goal of the study was to determine how other health
conditions influence cancer development. The researchers turned
up some surprises, including an inverse relationship between
cholesterol and cancer. High levels of the lipids known to raise
heart risk seemingly protected against breast tumors, Olsson
said. The researchers still have to determine if the women were
taking drugs to lower their cholesterol levels.  Weight also provided an unexpected result. There was an
inverse relationship between obesity and breast tumors at an
early age, with overweight young women having a lower risk of
cancer, the study found. After menopause, overweight women had a
higher risk, Olsson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  