-- 
Sany Eyes Plants in 10 Countries as China Digger Sales Slow

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-12-07T09:16:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/sany-eyes-plants-in-10-countries-as-china-excavator-demand-slows.html
Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) , the
construction-equipment maker run by China’s richest man, plans
to build factories in more than 10 foreign countries as domestic
demand growth slows.  The company intends to add facilities in  emerging markets 
and resource-rich nations as it works to boost the proportion of
sales generated overseas to 40 percent from about 10 percent
within five years, Nobuhiko Oku, deputy general manager at
Sany’s international sales arm, said yesterday in an interview
in Tokyo. The company has completed plants this year in the U.S.,
Brazil,  India  and Germany, he said.  “We’d like to make Sany a big global brand,” said Oku, a
former  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  engineer, who joined the company in 2009. He
is among about 70 foreigners, predominately engineers, hired by
Changsha, Hunan province-based Sany to help improve quality and
boost overseas sales, he said.  The equipment-maker, headed by Chairman Liang Wengen, and
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co. have begun to
challenge  Komatsu  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  overseas as the China
market suffers from slowing demand and rising competition. Sany
will likely miss its goal of selling 30,000 excavators
domestically this year, Oku said.  ‘Won’t Be Easy’  “It makes sense for Sany to accelerate its international
expansion given weakness in the home market,” said Karen Ubelhart, a Bloomberg Industries construction-equipment analyst
based in  New York . Still, “success won’t be easy,” she said.  Sany may be better off focusing on emerging markets than
 Europe  and the U.S., where larger players have already built up
extensive distribution networks, she said. Chinese companies
will also have to continue investing in product development to
help soothe quality concerns, Ubelhart said.  Sany climbed 0.4 percent to 12.25 yuan in Shanghai trading
today. The stock has fallen 15 percent this year, compared with
a 17 percent decline for the Shanghai A-Share Stock  Price Index .
The equipment-maker delayed plans for a Hong Kong share sale in
September amid a stock-market slump.  Liang formed Sany in 1989 with three other graduates of
Central South University in  Hunan province . The four have all
become billionaires, according to Forbes, on the back of  China ’s
construction of roads, railways and factories.  The company, China’s biggest maker of concrete equipment,
had sales of 33.8 billion yuan ($5.3 billion) last year, a 13-
fold increase over five years, according to Bloomberg data.  China Slowdown  Demand growth has slowed this year as China’s central bank
has raised  one-year lending rates  three times this year to 6.56
percent to cool inflation and tackle concerns about a potential
property-market bubble. Sany’s excavator sales will likely fall
short of target as demand has dropped since April, Oku said.  Still, Chinese companies are boosting their share of the
domestic excavator market as they increase their focus on more
sophisticated and profitable products, Bloomberg Industries’
Ubelhart said.  Sany’s share climbed to 8 percent from 3 percent in the
three years ended 2010, she said. The combined share of the
three market leaders -- Komatsu, Hitachi Construction Machinery
Co. and Doosan Infracore Co. -- dropped to 37 percent from 48
percent in the period, according to Off-Highway Research data,
cited by Bloomberg Industries. China also accounts for 45
percent of global construction-equipment retail sales, it said.  In  Japan , Sany is receiving inquiries from potential
customers, Oku said, declining to elaborate. The company
supplied a concrete-pump truck that helped cool the crippled
nuclear plant in Fukushima after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami.  Zoomlion, China’s second-largest construction-equipment
maker, is planning to build a factory in Japan after winning an
order for 30 truck-mounted concrete pumps in the country, it
said in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ; 