-- 
Saudi Arabia Crude Output Rose to 31-Year High, Naimi Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-12-06T19:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/saudi-arabia-pumping-10-million-barrels-a-day-al-naimi-says-1-.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest
crude exporter, boosted production last month to the most in
more than three decades to meet customer demand.  “We produced 10 million and 40 barrels in November because
that’s what the customers wanted,” Ali al-Naimi said in an
interview in Durban,  South Africa , where he is attending a
climate conference. That’s the highest since at least 1980,
according to data from the U.S. Energy Department. The desert
nation pumped 9.4 million barrels a day in October, al-Naimi
said on Nov. 20.  Saudi Arabia, the largest and most influential member of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, will meet
with other members of the group on Dec. 14 in Vienna to set
output targets for early 2012. The kingdom raised supply this
year to offset halted production in  Libya  and help prevent  oil
prices  from surging.  Brent crude  jumped to $127.02 in April as
the armed rebellion to oust  Muammar Qaddafi  shuttered exports.
It was at about $110 today.  “The market is balanced,” al-Naimi said. The nation is
prepared to maintain supplies at November levels “if customers
want the same thing in December,” he said.  Saudi Arabia produced 9.45 million barrels of oil a day in
October, 9.4 million in September, and 9.8 million in August,
according to the Paris-based International Energy Agency, which
has not yet released its estimate for November.  Outlook is ‘Good’  The outlook for demand next year “is good,” and if other
OPEC members such as Libya and  Iraq  supply more, Saudi Arabia
can adjust its production, al-Naimi said.  Asked whether he thinks supply to the market needs to be
altered, al-Naimi replied: “Wait until we meet.”  The sizeable jump in production doesn’t seem plausible as
output rebounds from Libya, and Iraq and Angola plan to add
supply next year, according to BNP Paribas SA.  “We doubt that Saudi will risk over-supplying the market,
thus we are circumspect as to the announced 10 million barrel-a-
day number,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP’s head of commodity
markets strategy in  London . “Equally, if you look at
International Energy Agency estimates for Saudi production going
back to 2000, the kingdom has never produced 10 million barrels
a day, and under the current market circumstances, a sudden and
large jump in production relative to October levels appears
counter-intuitive.”  ‘Well-Respected’  While the 10 million figure looked high it should be taken
at face value, said  Michael Wittner , the head of oil-market
research at Societe Generale SA in  New York .  “Naimi is smart enough and experienced enough to know that
when he isn’t qualifying an oil number it will be taken as the
crude total,” he said. “He knows that what he says will be
compared to the quota number, although quotas aren’t important
at the moment. He’s well-respected for a reason.”  The IEA, an adviser to 28 industrialized consumer nations,
reduced forecasts for global oil demand next year for a third
month in November on weaker prospects for developed nations.
Prices are high enough to pose a risk to the economy, the IEA’s
Chief Economist  Fatih Birol  said Nov. 9.  Saudi Aramco raised premiums for all five blends that it
will supply to  Asia , its largest customer base, in January by
$1.60 to $1.95 a barrel, the state-run oil company said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Aramco Selling Price  The increase in Aramco’s selling price to Asia hints at
potential changes to the company’s strategy, Vienna-based
consultant JBC Energy GmbH said today in a note to clients.  “Steep price hikes for the light end of the kingdom’s
crude slate may be aimed at avoiding a potential supply glut,”
JBC said. “The most benevolent interpretation is that the
kingdom wants to ensure a no-cut decision at the upcoming OPEC
meeting without ruffling too many feathers.”  OPEC’s 12 members are Algeria,  Angola , Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Oil ministers from several OPEC nations,
including Iran and Angola, have said this week that oil supply
and demand are in balance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in Durban, South Africa at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Durban, South Africa at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  