-- 
Saudi Manifa Oil Project to Cost $17 Billion, Aramco Says

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-12-06T14:55:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/saudi-manifa-oil-project-to-cost-17-billion-aramco-says-2-.html
Saudi Arabia  will spend about $17
billion developing the Manifa oil field as the national crude
producer shifts focus to developing natural gas deposits and
refining and petrochemical plants, the company’s head said.  State-run Saudi Arabian Oil Co. will spend $90 billion
expanding its refining and petrochemical assets, Chief Executive
Officer Khalid Al-Falih said in Doha, Qatar today. The company,
known as  Saudi Aramco  aims to be a “top-tier” producer of
petrochemicals within the next decade, al-Falih said. The Manifa
field is set to begin producing crude in 2013, he said.  “Saudi Aramco is going to grow in our downstream and our
gas production,” al-Falih told reporters at the World Energy
Congress taking place in the Qatari capital today. Aramco
generally outlines its spending in five-year plans.  Saudi Arabia holds the world’s largest oil reserves and the
fifth-largest gas deposits, according to BP Plc’s Statistical
Review of World Energy. The country is seeking to produce more
gas to run  power plants  and save more valuable crude for
exports, with local electricity demand growing by about 8
percent, according to government figures. The kingdom used 8.1
billion cubic feet of gas a day last year, BP data show.  Unconventional gas will help meet domestic demand, said Al-
Falih, adding that Aramco is boosting investment in gas
exploration and will look for deposits in the  Red Sea  and for
shale oil.  ‘Massive Exploration’  “We are undertaking a massive exploration campaign,” he
said. The company plans to start drilling for gas in the Red Sea
“very soon” next year and may expand exploration to deeper
water areas in late 2012, al-Falih said. Aramco made a
conventional gas discovery in the northwest of the kingdom that
it is still evaluating, he said.  Aramco is developing the Manifa oil field to raise output
of heavy crude, which is thicker and more difficult to refine.
The company is planning three refineries to process the blend,
which generally fetches lower prices on international markets
compared with lighter grades. It is producing “well above” 9
million barrels a day, Falih said.  Saudi Arabia  will invest $125 billion on upstream and
downstream oil projects over five years to enhance its
production capacity, Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi said June 2. The
company in 2009 completed the previous capital spending program
of more than $100 billion, which was then the biggest in its
history, the minister said in a speech in November 2010.  The company sees a “new golden age of petroleum” with
adequate supply and technology, while noting that the pace of
progress on alternatives to crude, including renewable energy
and nuclear projects, is “faltering,” he said.  Saudi Arabia produced 10 percent more oil in the first half
of 2011 compared with a year earlier, according to an Oct. 24
report from Riyadh-based Jadwa Investment Co. Higher crude
prices this year contributed to a 26 percent increase in the
kingdom’s nominal gross domestic product, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  