-- 
Scene Last Night: Adam Sandler Menorah, Jim Simons, Seth Meyers

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-12-06T15:37:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/scene-last-night-adam-sandler-menorah-jim-simons-seth-meyers.html
“A Funny Affair for Autism” last
night featured a live auction of two menorahs and three
Christmas trees.  Fashion designer  Isaac Mizrahi  created “the gay menorah,”
as it was dubbed by volunteer auctioneer and comedian Susie Essman of “Curb Your Enthusiasm.” It was hot pink with a lot
of flowers and went to Jim Simons, chairman and founder of
Renaissance Technologies LLC, for $10,000  Simons has given millions for autism research.  “I fund the research because I have a child with autism
and because it’s extremely interesting,” Simons said in an
interview. “Autism is a fascinating neurological condition, and
if we understand it better, we can help a lot of people.”  Another guest bid $25,000 for the Adam SandlerMenorah,
featuring images of famous Jews mentioned in his “The Chanukah
Song,” such as Larry, Curly and Moe.  As for the Christmas trees:  Martha Stewart ’s sold for
$9,000 and featured white sparkly ornaments. Honoree  Tommy Hilfiger ’s red, white and blue tree went for $10,000. And the
“Late Night with Jimmy Fallon” tree featured videos from the
show, as well as one of Questlove’s hair picks. It went for
$9,000.  The event, which benefited Autism Speaks and the New York
Center for Autism, raised $1.3 million.  The founders of Autism Speaks are the former head of NBC,
Bob Wright, and his wife, Suzanne, so there was a lot of NBC
talent on hand, including  Seth Meyers  and Bill Hader of
“Saturday Night Live,” Donny Deutsch, and  Peter Alexander , an
NBC News correspondent, who emceed.  Essman noted the red tartan tablecloths, the gingerbread
centerpieces and the Slatkin & Co. pine-scented candles given as
favors to guests. Harry and Laura Slatkin, who founded a charter
school for autistic children, were co-chairmen of the event.  “Where is the candle that smells like a latke? Such
discrimination!” she said.  Archbishop Finds Money  The matriarch of professional football’s  New York  Giants,
Ann Mara, wasn’t about to forgive New York Archbishop Timothy Dolan for backing the Green Bay Packers Sunday.  “I told him, ‘I hope your collection plate was empty.
Serves you right!’” she said last night at the Inner-City
Scholarship Fund 35th Annual Award Dinner.  Still, she can’t deny the archbishop’s money-raising
prowess on behalf of the fund, which sends underprivileged
children to New York City Catholic schools. On the elevator ride
to the event at the Mandarin Oriental hotel, Dolan secured a
$1,000 donation from a Jewish Philadelphian staying at the hotel
named Brett Ian Rubinson, who works for Veritable LP.  “I told him, ‘Come sit with me,’” Archbishop Dolan said
at the reception in the hotel lobby.  “I can’t join you, but where do I send the check?”
Rubinson replied, as guests including hedge-fund manager Richard Brennan, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Michael Millette, Citigroup
Inc.’s Samuel Di Piazza, and JPMorgan Chase Co.’s Catherine Keating filed in.  The event honored James Donaghy, chairman of Structure
Tone, a construction firm whose projects include the Setai hotel
on Fifth Avenue, the renovation of Macy’s and work at the
Cathedral Church of Saint John the Divine.  “We make these big buildings, and we have to take an
interest in the people who live around them,” Donaghy said
before his turn at the lectern. “We can change the odds for
kids by giving them a safe, secure and values-based
environment.”  Many guests cited the statistic in the event program that
95 percent of graduates of New York’s Catholic schools pursue
post-secondary education, compared to 67 percent of graduates of
New York City public schools.  CBS Sunday Morning contributor Mo Rocca, a board member of
the organization, emceed the event, which raised $1.3 million.
The president of the Inner-City Scholarship Fund board of
trustees is Peter Grauer, chairman of Bloomberg News parent
company Bloomberg LP.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 