-- 
S&P Warning Good for Euro Leaders: Schaeuble

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-12-06T14:09:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/schaeuble-says-s-p-downgrade-threat-adds-incentive-to-eu-debt-crisis-talks.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade warning for 15 euro-
area governments will spur European leaders to ratchet up
efforts to resolve the debt crisis at a Dec. 8-9 summit.  A day after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy strengthened their joint push for new
rules to tighten euro-area economic cooperation, Schaeuble said
that S&P’s warning -- issued hours after Merkel and Sarkozy met
in Paris -- was the “best encouragement” to drive toward a
solution at the European Union summit in Brussels.  “The truth is that markets in the whole world right now
don’t trust the euro area at all,” Schaeuble said today in
Vienna. S&P’s statement will prompt European leaders “to do
what we’ve promised, namely to take the necessary decisions
step-by-step and to win back the confidence of global
investors.”  Merkel and Sarkozy are leading the charge toward the latest
crisis fix after agreeing a joint position on automatic
penalties for deficit violators and anchoring debt limits into
euro states’ constitutions. Investors are looking for such an
agreement on closer fiscal cooperation in the euro area to
trigger intensified action from the  European Central Bank .  With EU leaders due to gather in a little over 48 hours,
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  arrived in Berlin for
talks with Schaeuble after traveling to  Frankfurt  earlier today
to meet with ECB President Mario Draghi and Bundesbank President
Jens Weidmann. The ECB holds a policy meeting on Dec. 8.  AAA Warning  The euro fell 0.2 percent against the  U.S. dollar , trading
at $1.3378 as of 2:46 p.m. Frankfurt time -- down from an
intraday high of $1.3487 yesterday as the S&P’s warning doused
optimism over joint action by euro leaders. S&P put Germany and
France among the six AAA-rated European countries on watch for
potential downgrades pending the outcome of the EU summit.  Among the summit measures announced by Merkel and Sarkozy
were plans to fast-track the euro’s permanent rescue fund to
2012, one year earlier than envisaged.  Germany  and France will
also seek to ensure that decisions by the fund, the European
Stability Mechanism, can be made by a “qualified majority”
rather than a unanimous vote by the participating governments.
Sarkozy said they aimed to reach consensus on treaty change with
other euro leaders by March.  Conviction Reinforced  Merkel and Sarkozy said in a joint statement that they
“took note” of the move by S&P, and  Europe ’s two biggest
economies “reinforce their conviction” that common proposals for
closer fiscal union will lead the way out of the crisis.  Merkel sidestepped a further response to S&P’s action,
saying leaders will press ahead undeterred and that credit
assessment is S&P’s “responsibility.”  “We will take decisions on Thursday and Friday that are
important and unavoidable for the euro zone,” Merkel said today
after meeting with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  in Berlin. “I
have always said this is a longer process that will take quite a
long time. We will keep moving forward on this path.”  Luxembourg  Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said the rating
company’s warning was like a “knockout blow” to governments
that are undertaking measures to scale back deficits.  “I have to wonder that this news reaches us out of the
clear blue sky at the time of the European summit -- this can’t
be a coincidence,” Juncker said in an interview with German
radio broadcaster Deutschlandfunk.  ‘Excessive’  The S&P move was “excessive,” said Vincent Truglia,
managing director at New York-based Granite Springs Asset
Management LLP and a former head of the sovereign risk unit at
Moody’s Investors Service, a rival rating company.  “Countries like Germany, Luxembourg,  Netherlands ,  Finland 
are AAA, and  Austria  is a pretty strong AAA,” he said.  S&P said that ratings could be cut by one level for
Austria,  Belgium , Finland, Germany, Netherlands and Luxembourg,
and by up to two notches for the other governments.  The other countries warned are Estonia,  France , Ireland,
Italy, Malta, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and  Spain . S&P said
it maintained the negative outlook for Cyprus, and  Greece  wasn’t
put on “creditwatch.”  After Merkel last week compared the mission to stabilize
the euro to a “marathon,” Sarkozy said yesterday that euro
leaders would go on a “forced march” to win back confidence.  “We want to go as fast as possible based on this agreement
between France and Germany, which is open to others,” Sarkozy
said after meeting with Merkel over lunch at the Elysee palace
in Paris.  ‘Fiscal Compact’  Both leaders declined to comment on speculation that the
ECB could step up bond purchases, following statements last week
from President Draghi that “other elements might follow” from
the central bank if European leaders agree on a “new fiscal
compact.”  “It’s a step in the right direction for the ECB but we’ll
want to know how the automatic sanctions are triggered,” said
 Klaus Baader , co-chief economist at Societe Generale SA. “When
France and Germany have joint press conferences and say we agree
on everything you have to take that with a pinch of salt.”  Merkel and Sarkozy yesterday repeated their rejection of
jointly sold euro bonds in solving the crisis, while seeking to
calm concerns of euro-area member states that the European Court
of Justice would be able to veto national budgets as part of
their proposal for centralized deficit supervision.  A member of the European Commission, Laszlo Andor of non-
euro-member Hungary, scoffed at the Merkel-Sarkozy initiative.  “Automatic sanctions are a joke,” Andor, who is charge of
employment and hasn’t played a frontline role in the crisis,
said in a Twitter Inc. posting. “Fiscal union alone will not
save the single currency -- debt union also necessary. Bring in
eurobond and activate ECB!”  Asked whether Andor spoke for the Brussels-based
commission, a spokeswoman, Karolina Kottova, pointed reporters
to statements by its president,  Jose Barroso . While the
commission doesn’t have a vote on the proposed amendments, it
will be represented by Barroso at the summit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  