-- 
Scrapped Atomic Plants Open Energy Gap in Daimler’s Hometown

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-12-07T15:26:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/scrapped-nuclear-plants-open-energy-gaps-in-daimler-s-hometown.html
Matthias Schuele’s aluminum foundry
stands a 30-minute drive from a nuclear reactor that supplied
electricity for more than three decades until German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  switched it off in March.  His furnaces today are backstopped by power generated in
 Austria  while Merkel’s government spars with utilities including
 EON AG  over how to add 20 gigawatts of fossil-fuel plants and
offshore wind farms, and 3,600 kilometers (2,237 miles) of high-
tension cables fast enough to keep his lights on.  “I can’t imagine how they’re going to install  wind
turbines  at the pace that’s needed here,” said Schuele, 44,
whose  family firm  produces engine-cooler parts for MAN SE trucks
and casings for the electric motors in Bayerische Motorenwerke
AG cars in the southwestern German state of Baden-Wuerttemberg.
“I can’t see where it will all end.”  Schuele’s predicament is shared by 470,000 family firms and
global corporations led by  Daimler AG (DAI) ,  Porsche SE (PAH3)  and  Robert
Bosch GmbH  across Baden-Wuerttemberg, whose economic output
exceeds Belgium and Luxembourg combined. That puts the German
state at the heart of a continent-wide test of energy production
and markets as governments seek alternatives to nuclear power in
the wake of the accident at  Japan ’s Fukushima reactors in March.  Role Model  “The German energy transformation is a huge challenge that
will require investments in renewable and gas combined heat and
power generation, new power lines and energy storage systems,”
said Claudia Kemfert, the senior energy expert at DIW economic
institute in Berlin. “If Germany succeeds, this could be a role
model to economies all over the world. If it fails, it will be a
disaster -- for Germany’s politicians, society and economy.”  So far, the progress has been slow. Since the decision to
shutter more than 25 percent of Germany’s nuclear capacity,
utilities EON,  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Vattenfall AB  and  EnBW Energie Baden-
Wuerttemberg AG  haven’t agreed to build a single coal- or gas-
fired plant to replace the 21.5 gigawatts of reactors to be
closed by 2022, which provided 23 percent of Germany’s
electricity last year.  Half the projects to expand the national grid of
transmission lines, substations and pylons are delayed, pushing
the network to the “edge of its capacity,” according to the
Bonn-based regulator  Bundesnetzagentur .  Three Scenarios  The regulator mapped out three scenarios today, forecasting
Germany’s energy mix in 2022. These will form the basis for a
national grid development plan to be published next year aimed
at speeding up power line modernization,  Matthias Kurth , the
head of the Bundesnetzagentur, said in an e-mailed statement.  Essen-based RWE fell as much as 1.9 percent in Frankfurt
trading, adding to a 7.2 percent decline yesterday when it
raised 2.1 billion euros ($2.8 billion) in a share sale to
strengthen its capital base and fund new energy projects. It was
down 0.9 percent at 27.89 euros a share at 4:21 p.m.  EnBW, which reported a first-half loss after mothballing
two of its four reactors, said yesterday that Chief Executive
Hans-Peter Villis won’t seek renewal of his contract that ends
in September 2012.  Overall, grid operators need to spend a combined 10 billion
euros to add  power lines  and avert shortages against a backdrop
of falling power prices as the sovereign-debt crisis erodes
demand.  Europe ’s last widespread blackout was in November 2006
when a high-voltage line switched off in northern Germany
knocked out power for 15 million people in seven countries from
Austria to  Portugal .  Network Stability  “We’re worried about where all this is leading,” Schuele
said as he walked by workers hammering sand out of freshly cast
aluminum parts. “Network stability is important. When you read
that prices could develop in a negative way, this could become a
problem.”  Franz Untersteller, Baden-Wuerttemberg’s environment
minister, said retail prices will probably rise “only
slightly” to pay for the grid upgrade because wholesale prices
are low.  “We’re also sure that there will be no blackouts in the
next two winters,” Untersteller said, citing a decision by the
Bundesnetzagentur, which in August identified 2.1 gigawatts of
fossil fuel-fired generators in Germany and Austria as back-up
to stabilize the power network in Baden-Wuerttemberg and
neighboring Bavaria.  Abrupt Change  Two coal-fired  power plants  under construction in Baden-
Wuerttemberg will ease grid bottlenecks, including a 1.2 billion
euro station near  Mannheim  with a capacity of 911 megawatts that
is to come online in 2013 or 2014, he said. EnBW started
building a 912-megawatt plant in 2008 at a cost of about 1
billion euros.  Merkel’s abrupt policy change risks creating shortages in
Germany’s industrial south, which lost about 5 gigawatts of
reactor capacity, because of the lack of cross-country power
lines, according to state-owned researcher Dena Energy Agency.  Germany is expected to phase out an additional 21.1
gigawatts of generation capacity by 2020, including older
fossil-fired plants and the remaining atomic reactors, from 166
gigawatts last year, according to the Bundesnetzagentur.  To plug any gap in supply, Daimler intends to install
combined heat and power generators in its factories, and is
reviewing investments into renewable energy projects while
reducing overall energy consumption, Martin Steinlehner, a
spokesman for the Stuttgart-based automaker, said by e-mail.  Secure Supply  The maker of Mercedes-Benz cars is spending about 38
million euros to equip the power station supplying its
facilities in Sindelfingen near Stuttgart, the world’s biggest
car manufacturing plant, with a gas turbine by 2013. More than
460,000 cars left the factory floor last year at the 3 million
square-meter site that employs 27,000 people.  “Security of supply is of key importance to us in the
discussion over the energy transition,” Steinlehner said.  Sports-car maker Porsche uses solar energy at a new
logistics center near its headquarters in Stuttgart. Some 8,500
photovoltaic panels installed on the roof of its year-old
component storage facility in Sachsenheim generate about 2
million kilowatt-hours of electricity a year, which is used to
power the site, spokesman Dirk Erat said by phone.  Germany  needs to expand renewable energy sources, increase
building efficiency and speed up grid modernization, according
to Bosch Chief Executive Officer  Franz Fehrenbach . “At the same
time, competitive energy prices and a failure-free supply must
remain strategic energy policy targets,” he wrote in a Nov. 21
guest commentary in Financial Times Deutschland.  Hardest Hit  EnBW, based in Stuttgart, is proportionally the hardest hit
among the four nuclear power providers, losing two of its four
reactors in the shutdown. That triggered a 552 million-euro loss
in the first nine months of the year after 1.25 billion euros
net income in the same period the year earlier.  A total of 17 percent of EnBW’s investments in the first
nine months were channeled into renewable energy projects,
including two planned offshore wind parks in the  Baltic Sea .
EnBW’s total investments were 926 million euros, a 43 percent-
drop compared with the year-earlier period.  RWE is raising as much as 11 billion euros to help finance
clean-energy projects, while EON, based in Dusseldorf, is
cutting up to 11,000 jobs and has filed a complaint against the
nuclear exit plan at Germany’s top constitutional court in
Karlsruhe.  Early Shutdowns  Early shutdowns of EON’s reactors and a tax on atomic fuel
reduced the utility’s earnings by 2.3 billion euros this year,
Chief Financial Officer Marcus Schenck said on a Nov. 9 call.
RWE saw third-quarter earnings slump 73 percent, after earlier
slashing full-year profit targets.  Baden-Wuerttemberg, mimicking a nationwide target, intends
to increase the share of renewables to 35 percent of the power
mix by the end of this decade, up from about 17 percent now.  The region, which ranks last in wind-power generation among
Germany’s 16 states, plans to add about 120 turbines each year,
up from eight in 2010.  Schuele, whose Metallgiesserei Schuele GmbH factory stands
20 kilometers from EnBW’s shuttered Neckarwestheim 1 reactor,
says a loss of power would be devastating for the business
founded by his father 54 years ago.  He’s exploring ways to melt aluminum with wood pellets and
is considering insuring against power failures.  A blackout of more than 30 minutes would cause the metal to
harden, expand and crack the kilns at his foundry, he says.
“We’d easily lose 20,000 euros if that happens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  