-- 
Securing Border Perimeter Sets Obama-Harper Plan for Faster Trade, Travel

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-12-06T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/securing-border-perimeter-sets-obama-harper-plan-for-faster-trade-travel.html
President  Barack Obama  and Canadian
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s plan to speed the flow of goods
across the border aims to counter concerns trade ties between
the two countries are weakening.  Obama and Harper will meet tomorrow in  Washington  to
announce details of a security “perimeter” agreement aimed at
making it easier for goods and people to cross the border, an
official familiar with the matter said, after almost 10 years of
talks to ease border congestion fueled by tighter U.S. security.  “We’ve had over a decade of principles and processes
now,” said  John Kirton , political science professor and head of
the G-8 Research Group at the  University of Toronto . “The time
is for some decisive action.”  The new border accord comes after Obama announced last
month he would delay until 2013 a decision on the $7 billion,
1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) Keystone XL  pipeline , proposed by
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  Approval of the pipeline, which would carry
Canadian oil-sands crude through the Great Plains to the  Gulf of
Mexico , is a “no-brainer,” Harper said in a Sept. 21 interview
with Bloomberg.  The U.S. State Department, which had been expected to
decide on the project by the end of the year, said Nov. 10 it
was postponing the ruling to consider alternative routes.
TransCanada has reached agreement with Nebraska officials to
move the pipeline from environmentally sensitive areas.  Harper has said the decision underscores the needs to find
new buyers for Canada’s energy. Canada sends 99 percent of its
petroleum exports to the U.S.  ‘Captive Supplier’  “It is not in this country’s interests that we are a
captive supplier of the United States of energy products,
especially when we see some of the politics that are going on
south of the border,” Harper told reporters Dec. 2.  The Keystone delay is the latest of several U.S. moves that
have irked  Canada . Canada objected to “Buy American”
provisions in the Obama administration’s $447 billion jobs bill
that was blocked by Republicans in Congress, as well as the
restoration of a $5.50 fee on Canadian travelers arriving in the
U.S. by plane or ship.  The Canada-U.S. trade relationship has struggled under the
impact of tighter border security following the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, as well as the emergence of  China  as a
competitor and slowing global growth.  The share of Canada’s exports to the U.S. has been
declining since 2000,  a trend  that accelerated as the global
recession curbed demand for Canadian exports. The value of goods
shipped to the U.S. in the final quarter of 2010 fell to 71
percent of total Canadian exports, the lowest level since 1982.
The share of Canadian imports coming from the U.S. has fallen to
61 percent this year, its lowest since at least 1971, after
rising to as high as 78 percent in 1998.  Pilot Projects  The agreement will likely include pilot projects to test
ways of accelerating the flow of goods and people at the border,
said Colin Robertson, a former Canadian diplomat who works as a
senior adviser on U.S.-Canada relations to Washington-based law
firm  McKenna, Long and Aldridge  LLP.  The two countries will likely expand programs that enable
companies to have shipments “pre-cleared,” he said. Benefits
to industry may be initially modest, until such measures are
permanently implemented, Robertson added.  “When you cross the border today, the attitude on both
sides of the border is really, ‘What do you want to cross for?’
instead of trying to expedite,” he said by phone. “If this is
to be successful, you’ll have to see an attitudinal change.”  Harmonizing Regulations  The border agreement may also include harmonizing
regulations on goods crossing the border, said Jay Myers, chief
executive officer of the Ottawa-based Canadian Manufacturers &
Exporters. His group has been lobbying jointly with the U.S.
National Association of Manufacturers to ease border delays.  Myers said he expects many of the coalition’s
recommendations, including the harmonization of health and
safety regulations and reduced restrictions on business
travelers, will be adopted by the two nations.  Another topic that may come up is the European debt crisis
and whether countries like Canada and the U.S. should provide
more funding through the  International Monetary Fund . IMF chief
 Christine Lagarde  has indicated that the $390 billion the IMF
currently has available for lending may not suffice should the
global outlook worsen.  “It won’t really matter how open the border between the
two countries is if aggregate demand for Canadian products in
the  United States  disappears due to the global financial
crisis,” said Kirton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ,
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 