-- 
Shale-Gas Drilling to Add 870,000 Jobs by 2015, Report Says

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-12-06T20:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/shale-gas-drilling-to-add-870-000-u-s-jobs-by-2015-report-says.html
Producing natural gas from shale will
support 870,000 U.S. jobs and add $118 billion to economic
growth in the next four years, according to a report from  IHS
Global Insight .  Gas from shale, which accounts for 34 percent of U.S.
output, also will contribute $57 billion in federal, state and
local taxes by 2035, or $933 billion in the next 25 years,
according to today’s IHS report, commissioned by  America’s
Natural Gas Alliance , a Washington-based industry group.  Shale gas is extracted using hydraulic fracturing, a
process in which millions of gallons of chemically treated water
and sand is forced underground, breaking up the rock to free
trapped gas. Industry expansion is adding jobs in an otherwise
disappointing economy, said John Larson, a vice president at
Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS, a management consulting
company for the  energy industry .  “Shale gas combines a capital-intensive industry with a
broad domestic supply chain,” Larson said in an interview. “We
think that these jobs through 2015 are net new jobs because of
high unemployment.”  Environmental groups have said the process, also called
fracking, has tainted drinking water in states such as
 Pennsylvania , where 4,100 wells have been drilled. About 1,900
people, most opposed to fracking, attended a New York City
hearing on Nov. 30 to consider state rules for drilling.  Conclusions Questioned  Food and Water Watch , which advocates a ban on fracking,
said IHS didn’t provide a detailed methodology, making it
impossible to validate the projections. The report also ignores
potential job losses, Emily Wurth, the Washington-based group’s
water policy director, said today in an e-mail.  “The analysis fails to account for the job losses to
agriculture and tourism caused by intensive shale gas
development,” Wurth said.  Financial forecasts by IHS include direct jobs in the
drilling industry plus an “employment multiplier.” For every
direct job added, more than three indirect and induced jobs are
created, according to the report.  The forecast excluded potential drilling in  New York , which
has placed a moratorium on fracking while it develops drilling
regulations, or the impact of U.S. service companies supplying
drilling in  Canada , Larson said.  “Given those sort of factors, we feel that what we’ve
presented here is a very conservative estimate,” Larson said.  Cost Cuts  The shale-gas contribution to U.S. gross domestic product
will triple to $231 billion in 2036 from $76 billion last year,
the report found. Lower natural gas prices as shale boosts
supply will cut U.S. electricity costs by an average of 10
percent, the report found. Lower prices will raise industrial
production 2.9 percent by 2017 and 4.7 percent by 2035.  “IHS appears to have included payments to landowners as
 capital expenditures  by the gas industry that create direct
jobs,” Wurth said. “Lease and royalty payments do not create
direct jobs and do not lead to any indirect jobs.”  Food and Water Watch found in a November report that
projections for the number of shale-industry jobs in New York
led to a  “gross exaggeration” of the gains, Wurth said.  A 2011 report by the  Public Policy Institute of New York
State , an Albany-based research group, found that by 2018,
developing 500 shale gas wells a year in five counties would
create 62,620 jobs. After correcting the “flawed” job
multiplier, the number was closer to 6,656 jobs, Wurth said.  “Very few people have analyzed these reports,” Wurth
said. “That’s unfortunate because a lot of elected officials
take these studies as factually based.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  