-- 
Shanghai Exchange Seeks Institutional, Foreign Investors

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-06T04:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/shanghai-exchange-seeks-institutional-foreign-investors-1-.html
The  Shanghai Futures Exchange  aims to
broaden its membership to include institutional and foreign
investors as the bourse attempts to attract overseas capital to
the world’s biggest commodities consumer amid flagging volumes.  “We are studying how to allow banks, trusts, securities
and fund companies to enter the  commodities markets ,” Yang Maijun, general manager, said in a written interview. The bourse
hopes to expand the market within the next five years, Yang
said. The exchange has already approved the local units of
 Australia  and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and  HSBC Holdings
Plc. (HSBA)  to trade gold futures.  Allowing foreign companies to trade futures would increase
 China ’s influence in setting global benchmark prices for copper,
gold and rubber. The Shanghai exchange’s trading volume tumbled
52 percent this year as regulators cracked down on speculation
and the London Metal Exchange and CME Group Inc., the U.S. owner
of the world’s largest futures market, stepped up efforts to
capture more business from  Asia .  “Foreign investors will only pay attention to this market
once they can participate,” said Ren Gang, head of research
department at Maike Futures Co. in Shanghai. “Otherwise, the
prices are just references.”  The exchange has nearly 400 members, most of which are
futures brokerages, according to the bourse. Trading volume in
January-November fell to 281.95 million lots after jumping 43
percent in 2010 to 621.90 million lots, according to the China
Futures Association. China’s commodity futures markets are off-
limits to overseas entities that are not locally registered.  ‘A Must’  “Introducing institutional and foreign investors is a
must,” said Lin Hui, head research department at Orient Futures
Co. in  Shanghai . “It can help local markets to mature.”  The combined volume of the three bourses located in
Shanghai, Dalian and Zhenzhou, tumbled 34 percent in January to
November a year ago to 936.11 million lots, data from the
association showed. Turnover fell after regulators tightened
controls on speculative trade.  “The structure of market participants isn’t appropriate,”
as retail investors now account for the bulk of trading, said
the exchange’s Yang. Besides the introduction of institutional
investors, China’s futures markets should also gradually open to
foreign players to diversify the investor pool, he said.  There are 26 commodity futures traded in China, including
copper, soybeans and gold. Authorized state-owned companies,
private firms, and individuals still tend to participate in
overseas markets, especially in  London  and  New York , as trading
there sets the global benchmark for prices.  CME Discussions  Chicago-based  CME Group Inc.  is in talks with the China
Securities Regulatory Commission about measures that may allow
some Chinese futures brokerages to trade on the exchange,  China
Daily  reported on Dec. 1, citing CME President Phupinder Gill.
The exchange plans to start a clearing house in Asia and
increase the number of employees in the region, according to the
report.  The London Metal Exchange held training sessions in
Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and Shenzhen in November after
starting mini-contracts in copper, aluminum, and zinc settled in
cash with the  Singapore Exchange  in February. It also started
Asian benchmark reference prices for three-month copper,
aluminum and zinc in January.  To become a price discovery center takes a long time, and
only when there is wide participation from investors at home and
abroad can prices become benchmarks, Yang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Richard Dobson  in Shanghai at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  