-- 
Slovak Parliament Begins Budget Debate as Cabinet Seeks Support

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-12-06T09:46:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/slovak-parliament-begins-budget-debate-as-cabinet-seeks-support.html
Slovak lawmakers began debate on the
2012  budget  as the caretaker government of outgoing Prime
Minister  Iveta Radicova  seeks support for the spending plan at a
time when euro-area’s debt crisis is weighing on the economy.  The draft budget targets a deficit of 4.6 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with a goal of 4.9 percent in 2011.
The administration has abandoned a plan to squeeze the shortfall
to the originally targeted 3.8 percent of GDP as the lingering
debt crisis in the euro region is reducing prospects for  growth 
in the bloc’s second-poorest member.  “We are in the period when the key goal should be to
maintain Slovakia’s credibility for financial markets,” Finance
Minister Ivan Miklos told lawmakers today in the Slovak capital,
Bratislava. “It’s necessary to reduce the deficit in 2012
despite early elections and the crisis.”  Slovakia, which adopted the euro in 2009, is seeking to
trim its deficit to avert contagion from the euro region’s
credit crisis, which has spread from  Greece  into  Italy . The cost
of insuring against Slovak default over five years has almost
quadrupled this year and the country has failed to raise the
planned amount at Treasury bond auctions in November.  Radicova is holding office until early elections in March
after she lost a confidence vote on Oct. 11. The fractured
former coalition isn’t able to agree on more spending cuts,
while some of of the former partners’ lawmakers haven’t ruled
out rejecting the budget.  Miklos said the country should stick to its goal of
trimming the budget gap below the European Union limit of 3
percent of GDP by 2013. The central bank said yesterday the risk
of missing this goal is rising, being boosted by the collapse of
the government.  Forecast Revisions  The government last month revised its forecast for the 2012
growth to 1.7 percent, half the original projection, as the euro
area’s debt crisis hurts demand for exports of the products made
in the country such as Samsung Electronics Inc. television sets.
The European Commission expects an even bigger slowdown,
forecasting 1.1 percent growth.  Should lawmakers approve changes to the budget, which would
boost the deficit beyond 4.6 percent of GDP, the  Finance
Ministry  will withdraw the spending plan from Parliament, Miklos
said on Nov. 29. Public finances would in such a case be
governed by an interim budget with a deficit ceiling of 4.4
percent of GDP, he said.  The government parties have 78 legislators in the 150-seat
assembly. The largest opposition party, Smer, has said it won’t
vote for the budget unless it introduces a tax increase on high
earners and a dividend tax. Ordinary People, a faction of four
lawmakers that was part of the former ruling coalition, also has
conditions for supporting the budget, its leader Igor Matovic
has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  