-- 
South Africa’s Government Takes Control of Three Provincial Departments

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-12-06T12:20:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/south-african-government-takes-control-of-three-provincial-departments.html
South Africa ’s government said it’s
taking control of some departments in Gauteng, Limpopo and Free
State provinces to tighten spending and combat mismanagement.  The Cabinet took the decision at a special meeting
yesterday after an investigation into overspending and problems
with the supply of services, the government said in an e-mailed
statement from  Pretoria .  “It’s the responsibility of government to run our finances
in a way that will also benefit our ratings,” Treasury
spokeswoman Bulelwa Boqwana said today by phone from Pretoria.
Moody’s Investors Service lowered South  Africa ’s credit-ratings
outlook on Nov. 9 to negative from stable.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  is struggling to keep
spending in Africa’s biggest  economy  in check to curb a  budget
deficit  that’s forecast to reach 5.5 percent of gross domestic
product in the year through March 2012. South Africa’s nine
provinces boosted spending on wages by 17 percent to 108 billion
rand ($13.4 billion) in the first half of the current fiscal
year, according to data from the National Treasury. That
accounts for 61 percent of total provincial  spending  over that
period.  Gordhan told  South African Broadcasting Corp.  today that
the government wants to ensure public finances are “managed
properly,” the South African Press Association reported. There
must be “proper governance processes,” and delivery of
services, such as health and education, shouldn’t be undermined
by “financial mismanagement,” Johannesburg-based SAPA quoted
Gordhan as saying.  ‘Unsatisfactory’ Situation  “While some provinces have taken appropriate actions, the
situation remains unsatisfactory,” the Cabinet said.  Limpopo, South Africa’s northern province that borders
Botswana, Zimbabwe and  Mozambique , is facing a cash crisis and
requested an overdraft facility of 757 million rand to be
boosted by an additional 1 billion rand to pay salaries on Nov.
23, the Cabinet said. The government will take control of the
provincial Treasury, education, transport, health and public
works departments, it said.  In Gauteng, South Africa’s richest province that includes
Johannesburg, the National Treasury will aim to address
financial management problems at the health department. The
government will take control of the provincial Treasury, police
and transport departments in the central Free State province,
the Cabinet said.  Experts Deployed  The Treasury will deploy experts to the provincial
departments to improve their “financial management and supply
chain management,” Boqwana said. Details of the plan are still
being worked out, she said.  In Limpopo, the Youth League of the ruling  African National
Congress  said the decision was designed to sideline some of the
party’s provincial officials because they threaten the chances
of national leaders to stay in power at an elective conference
in Bloemfontein, also known as Mangaung, in December next year.  “We view it as a knee-jerk reaction of those who fear that
a change of ANC Leadership in Mangaung in 2012 may mean the end
of their political lives as they know it in the ANC,” the Youth
League said today in an e-mailed statement.  Boqwana said the Cabinet’s decision was not about politics.  “If the provinces fail it affects the national fiscus and
the taxpayers,” she said. “Continued financial failures cannot
be allowed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  