-- 
Southwest Fights ‘Cost Enemy’ After AMR Bankruptcy Filing

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-12-06T21:05:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/southwest-fights-cost-enemy-with-amr-pressure.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , the biggest
fare discounter, said it faces more pressure to trim labor and
operating costs since  American Airlines  joined other larger
rivals in using bankruptcy to pare spending.  Southwest’s cost advantage over so-called legacy carriers
such as American and Delta Air Lines Inc. has fallen by half and
its fares have moved closer to competitors’, Chief Executive
Officer  Gary Kelly  told employees in a memo yesterday. As a
result, Dallas-based Southwest faces a more serious threat from
now-profitable peers, he said.  With American’s Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing, Southwest is the
only major U.S. airline never to have sought court-supervised
restructuring. Southwest has relied on higher productivity from
its employees and luring more passengers with low fares to
sustain its record of 38 consecutive annual profits.  “The sloth-like industry you remember competing against is
now officially dead and buried,” Kelly said. “We fought them
and we won. Now the enemy is our own cost creep, our own legacy-
like productivity and our own inefficiencies. Fighting this cost
enemy is an imperative.”  Southwest has the industry’s highest labor rates, and Kelly
urged workers to take advantage of opportunities to “improve
our productivity, eliminate waste and preserve our pay rates.”  American and parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  filed for bankruptcy in part
because they failed to negotiate new contracts with employees
that would boost productivity and trim labor costs that as a
percentage of revenue are the highest in the industry.  ‘More Competitive World’  “Gary Kelly is right,” Jeff Kauffman, an analyst at
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  New York , said in an interview.
“The edge they used to have in the domestic marketplace is gone
and it’s a more competitive world for Southwest.” He rates the
airline’s shares “neutral.”  Southwest rose 0.9 percent to $8.54 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 8.5 percent since the day before
AMR’s filing.  Kelly’s message was in response to questions from employees
about how  Fort Worth , Texas-based American’s bankruptcy would
affect Southwest and wasn’t a call for concessions from workers,
Chief Financial Officer Laura Wright said at a Rodman & Renshaw
airlines conference today in  Boston .  The CEO’s memo lays out “how important it is for us to
retain our spot at the top in terms of low costs,” she said.
“That was really kind of the battle cry. I wouldn’t say that
there was anything in there that was asking for concessions.”  Preparing for Talks  Southwest is preparing to negotiate new labor contracts as
it integrates workers from the May acquisition of AirTran
Holdings Inc.  Spokesmen for unions representing Southwest’s pilots and
flight attendants didn’t immediately respond to calls or e-mails
seeking comment.  “Their people are oriented toward always looking for a
different way, trying to get more productivity,” said  Bob McAdoo , an Avondale Partners LLC analyst in Prairie Village,
 Kansas . “It’s a culture always looking for a way to do more
with less.” He rates Southwest “market outperform.”  Southwest has never furloughed workers, although 1,400
employees took voluntary buyouts in 2009. It was the airline’s
third such effort, and the first that was made companywide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  