-- 
South Africa Seeks Banks to Advise It on Structuring, Sale of Sukuk Bonds

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-12-06T12:14:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/south-africa-seeks-banks-to-advise-it-on-structuring-sale-of-sukuk-bonds.html
South Africa  invited banks to submit
proposals for the sale of its first Islamic bond as the
continent’s biggest economy seeks to broaden access to
financing.  The Pretoria-based National Treasury asked lenders to
submit proposals for the structuring and issuance of an Islamic
bond, known as a sukuk, in local and international markets by
Dec. 21. It will shortlist bidders by Jan. 20, the Treasury said
in an e-mailed statement.  South Africa, where less than 2 percent of the 49.1 million
people are Muslim, is looking to tap the Islamic finance
industry’s $1 trillion in assets. Moody’s Investors Service
rates the nation A3, the second-highest investment grade on the
continent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Islamic investors are prevented from buying conventional
debt, so there is pretty strong ongoing demand for Islamic
debt,” Mark Watts, head of fixed-income at National Bank of Abu
Dhabi PJSC, which manages 4.1 billion dirhams ($1.1 billion),
said by phone. “The issuance of sukuk is a good way to access
this market.”  South Africa is a relatively low-risk debtor, which would
make its sukuk bonds attractive for Islamic investors seeking to
diversify their portfolios outside the  Middle East  and North
Africa region, Watts said.  Islamic bonds will help diversify the government’s funding
and investor base, the Treasury said. South Africa’s fiscal gap
will widen to 5.5 percent of gross domestic product in the year
through March 2012, from a revised 4.6 percent last year,
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in his mid-term budget
statement on Oct. 25.  “There is a great interest in the sukuk market and this is
the first step towards meeting the growing appetite for
government-backed Sharia-compliant investments,” Lungisa Fuzile, director general of the National Treasury, said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  