-- 
Sovereign-Debt Test U-Turn Too Late to Save EBA Credibility

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-12-06T08:57:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/sovereign-debt-test-u-turn-too-late-to-save-eba-credibility-.html
Less than five months after
conducting stress tests that found banks needed to raise 2.5
billion euros ($3.4 billion), the  European Banking Authority  may
tell lenders that they need 40 times that amount to defend
against losses on sovereign debt.  The regulator may release updated figures on how much
capital lenders should raise to absorb losses from euro-area
bonds as early as this week, three people familiar with the
matter said. The London-based watchdog’s stress tests in July
were criticized for failing to include writedowns on sovereign
debt held to maturity.  The EBA “has a fundamental problem, which is that they’ve
lost credibility and it’s going to be very difficult to claw
that back,” Bob Penn, a London-based financial regulation
lawyer at  Allen & Overy , said in a telephone interview. “Will
anyone pay attention? I’m not so sure.”  European leaders are demanding the region’s banks increase
capital after financial firms agreed to accept losses on Greek
 government bonds . The EBA estimated in October that the region’s
financial institutions need 106 billion euros to reach a goal of
holding 9 percent of so-called core Tier 1 capital by mid-2012,
after marking their sovereign debt to market prices.  Seventy banks were tested in October with data broken down
by country. Spanish banks needed 26.2 billion euros and Italian
banks 14.8 billion euros in core tier 1 capital, taking into
account booking sovereign debt at market prices, the EBA said.  EU Summit, Holidays  A publication date for the bank capital data will be agreed
to at a meeting tomorrow of the EBA’s board of supervisors,
Franca Congiu, a spokeswoman for the authority said in an e-
mail. The figures on banks’ capital needs will be signed off at
the meeting, she said.  The timing of the release is complicated by holidays in
 Italy ,  Spain ,  Portugal  and  Austria  and the Dec. 8-9 European
Union summit in Brussels and could be delayed until next week,
according to two of the people, who declined to be identified
because the discussions are confidential.  Regulators may ask German lenders to boost their capital
levels by around 10 billion euros, almost double the original
5.2 billion-euro estimate for the country’s banks in October,
two people familiar with the situation said last week.  The updated figures take into account sovereign holdings
through the end of September, rather than the estimates, which
used June data. U.K. banks probably won’t need to raise capital,
 Andrew Bailey , head of banking supervision at the FSA, told
reporters last month.  ‘Shrink’ Balance Sheets  The exercise “is likely to compound the forces encouraging
banks to shrink their balance sheets,” Huw van Steenis, a
banking analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in an e-mail.  By using a capital ratio, rather than setting a specific
capital amount to be raised, “it is likely to intensify the
credit squeeze into a weakening economy,” van Steenis said.  Banks will likely shrink their balance sheets by as much as
2.5 trillion euros within a year-and-a-half, Morgan Stanley said
in a report last month.  Enria yesterday warned against banks trying to boost
capital by cutting lending to companies, which might harm the
economic recovery. Such so-called deleveraging poses a “serious
threat” to growth, he said.  The EBA has been clear that “only the narrowest actions
curtailing asset levels” would be allowed to count toward
lenders’ capital ratios, Enria said.  Capital requirements  for
banks are set as ratios of their reserves compared with loans
and other assets weighted according to their riskiness.  ‘Extremely Difficult’  The EBA gave banks until Christmas Day to submit their
plans for meeting the capital requirements. The German Banking
Industry Committee last month asked for an extension until Jan.
13 because meeting the deadline would be “extremely difficult,
if not impossible.”  The purpose of the 9 percent capital target is to improve
lenders’ “access to markets,” Enria said. “Only a handful of
banks have been able to access medium- and long-term unsecured
funding since late June 2011,” he said.  Bankers may have to give up bonuses and shareholders forgo
dividends under the plans to meet the tougher EU standards,
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  