-- 
Nuclear Reactor License Renewals May Be Slowed, Jaczko Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-12-06T21:57:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/staffing-limits-may-stall-u-s-nrc-license-renewals-jaczko-says.html
Limited staffing at the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission may slow the agency in renewing licenses
for existing nuclear power plants, the agency’s chairman said.  “There are resource limitations,”  Gregory Jaczko  said
today at a meeting with reporters at NRC headquarters in
Rockville,  Maryland . It may take a bit longer to get through the
license renewal reviews, he said.  Reactor owners such as  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  of  New Orleans  are
seeking operating-license extensions for some of the 104 U.S.
commercial nuclear generating units. Entergy’s Indian Point
plant, about 24 miles (39 kilometers) north of New York City,
has two units with licenses expiring in 2013 and 2015.  Jaczko didn’t say that licenses are in danger of expiring
as the commission reviews their applications. The agency has
renewal applications pending for 14 reactors, according to the
NRC website.  The NRC chairman met with reporters to discuss the agency’s
performance this year, including its response to  Japan ’s nuclear
disaster in March and the completion of its review of a proposed
nuclear-waste repository at Nevada’s Yucca Mountain. The agency
also is weighing applications from Atlanta-based  Southern Co. (SO) 
and  Scana Corp. (SCG)  of Cayce,  South Carolina , for the first licenses
in more than 30 years to build new U.S. reactors.  ‘Precursors of Declines’  A priority for the NRC next year will be managing
“precursors of declines in performance” at U.S. nuclear
plants, Jaczko said. Workers at  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) ’s Perry plant
near Cleveland and Nebraska Public Power District’s Cooper plant
64 miles south of Omaha were almost exposed to “significant
doses” of radiation due to ‘human-performance-type’’ errors, he
said.  Three nuclear plants regulated by the NRC also had extended
closures in 2011, according to Jaczko. “That was something we
haven’t seen in a long time,” he said.  Reactors at  Dominion Resources Inc .’s North Anna facility
near Mineral, Virginia were shut down for more than two months
while the agency inspected the plant following an Aug. 23
earthquake.  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN) ’s Crystal River reactor, located about
80 miles north of Tampa, Florida, has been out of service since
workers discovered a crack in a containment-building wall in
October 2009, according to the NRC. Omaha Public Power
District’s Fort Calhoun reactor, about 19 miles north of Omaha,
Nebraska, has been shut down since April, first for refueling,
then because of flooding near the plant in June, agency
spokesman Victor Dricks said in an interview.  “We’re not seeing really true declines in performance, but
we’ll keep an eye out for it,” Jaczko said.  ’Very Comfortable’  Jaczko said he is “very comfortable with the steps that we
took” responding to the crisis in Japan, where an earthquake
and tsunami triggered meltdowns and radiation leaks at  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear complex. The
agency on Oct. 20 directed its staff to immediately implement
seven safety recommendations of a task force, including reviews
of seismic and flooding hazards at U.S. plants and operators’
ability to cope with extended blackouts.  Republicans have accused Jaczko of directing the NRC to
stop work on its review of the Yucca Mountain project for
political reasons, a charge he has denied. Jaczko is a former
science adviser to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat and a longtime opponent of the proposed waste dump.  Managing nuclear waste is currently “not an issue that I
think poses significant safety or security challenges,” Jaczko
said. The options for storing nuclear waste, which is kept in
cooling pools and protective steel containers, present
“manageable issues for at least the next 100 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  