-- 
Stocks in U.S. Decline From Two-Week High: China Overnight

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-12-06T22:32:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/stocks-in-u-s-drop-from-two-week-high-led-by-materials-china-overnight.html
U.S.-listed Chinese stocks fell from
a two-week high, led by basic materials companies such as
 Aluminum Corp. of China (ACH)  and  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) , on concern
the European debt crisis will further slow down China’s exports.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  fell 1 percent to 100.16 in
New York, from 101.2 in the previous session, when it reached
the highest close since Nov. 16. Aluminum Corp of China, the
nation’s biggest producer of the metal, lost 2.3 percent and
Yanzhou Coal, China’s fourth-biggest producer of the fuel,
declined 4 percent. Software developer  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. 
advanced after rebutting Citron Research’s report that it
misreported revenue.  The European Financial Stability Facility may lose its top
 credit rating  if any of the bailout fund’s six guarantors,
including Germany and France, face a downgrade from AAA,
Standard & Poor’s said. The benchmark tracking  China ’s domestic
stocks fell to a six-week low on concern a housing slowdown will
drag growth while the European crisis curtails shipments to its
largest export market.  “China’s exports to  Europe  are going to be weak, and I
don’t think there’s anything the Chinese monetary policy can do
to change that,” said Greg Lesko, who oversees $750 million as
managing director of Deltec Asset Management LLC, in a telephone
interview from New York. “There seems to be some optimism that
the European situation is heading toward a reasonable outcome,
but every day the news flow is back and forth.”  The Chinese benchmark pared some losses late in the trading
session after the Financial Times reported that policy makers in
Europe are negotiating a bigger rescue effort to present at this
week’s European Union summit, including running two separate
bailout funds simultaneously.  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  Falls  The  Shanghai  Composite Index, which tracks the domestic
bourse, dropped 0.3 percent to 2,325.91, the lowest close since
Oct. 21, as  Fitch Ratings  said a property-price decline will
taint bank loans. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 1.3
percent, snapping a six-day, 10 percent rally. The  S&P 500 index 
of U.S. stocks rose 0.1 percent.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a mobile-phone chip maker,
tumbled 9.9 percent to $21.75 and was the biggest decliner on
the Bloomberg index. It touched $20.51, the lowest level since
Oct. 13. Wedge Partners said in a report on Dec. 5 that that the
company’s shipments in November were lower than its estimate due
to rising competition.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , a maker of solar wafers and panels, rose 3.7
percent to $4.22 and was the biggest advancer on the Bloomberg
benchmark, extending its gain in the past week to 24.5 percent.
The company will sell 500 million yuan ($79 million) of three-
year notes today as part of a 3 billion-yuan program to replace
shorter-term liabilities.  Qihoo, developer of China’s most popular computer security
software, rose 3.3 percent to $18.21. The company said a report
from Citron Research Dec. 5 alleging Qihoo misrepresented its
earnings has “numerous errors” and “misleading speculation.”
Qihoo has disputed Citron’s criticism in the past two months.  Exports to Europe  Aluminum Corp. and Yanzhou Coal led a drop of the basic
materials sector. Germany, France and four other nations may
lose their AAA credit ratings depending on the result of a
summit of European Union leaders on Dec. 9, S&P said on Dec. 5.
Economists at UBS AG and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank are
predicting a recession in the euro zone next year.  The European malaise helped push growth in China’s exports
to a two-year low in October. The EU accounted for 18 percent of
China’s exports.  Shipment  to the European Union declined 18
percent in three months ended in October to $28.7 billion,
according to data compiled by the General Administration of
Customs.  The domestic gauge of Chinese stocks has plunged 17 percent
this year, following a 14 percent decline in 2010, after the
central bank raised  interest rates  and lenders’ reserve-
requirement ratios to stem inflation and took steps to curb
housing prices. The benchmark of Chinese stocks trading in the
U.S. has lost 4.1 percent this year, compared with a 0.1 percent
gain in the S&P 500 index.  No Stock Rally  The central bank’s decision Nov. 30 to reduce  reserve
requirements  for the first time since 2008 has failed to spur a
rally in the domestic stocks. Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pledged to
“fine-tune” economic policies to sustain growth, while keeping
measures to curb property prices. The government will extend
property control measures next year, the Shanghai Securities
News reported, citing Zhao Luxing, real estate department head
at the Ministry of Housing and Rural Development’s policy
research center.  “Easing represented by a reduction of reserve ratio is
really fairly limited,” said Philippe Langham, who manages the
$872 million RBC Emerging Markets Fund in  London  in a telephone
interview. “Given that China needs to get credit growth under
control, we cannot expect a dramatic easing in monetary
policy.”  China Medical Technologies  China Medical Technologies Inc. (CMED)  plunged the most on record
after Glaucus Research Group, a short-seller, said the medical
device-maker defrauded investors and they should sell the stock.
China Medical didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment
after normal business hours in China.  Shares of China Medical lost 24 percent to $2.57, the most
since the company began trading in 2005. The stock has dropped
77 percent this year.  The Shanghai Composite Index is valued at 11.1 times
estimated earnings, from a six-year average of 18.3 times,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. Indian stocks
trade at 14.4 times estimated earnings, compared with 10.7 for
Brazilian shares and 5.1 for Russian equities.  The  ishares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 0.8 percent to $36.56.  The Chinese yuan was little changed at 6.3642 per dollar at
the close in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The yuan has advanced 3.8 percent this year, the
best performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies
excluding the yen.  The government is scheduled to report November inflation
rate and production figures this week. Consumer prices probably
increased 4.5 percent last month from a year ago, compared with
5.5 percent in October, according to the median estimate of 35
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual inflation reached a
three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  