-- 
Stress of U.S. Presidency Doesn’t Lead to Shorter Lifespan, Study Finds

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-12-06T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/stress-of-u-s-presidency-doesn-t-lead-to-shorter-lifespan.html
The stress of being president of the
U.S. doesn’t necessarily mean a shorter life, even if it does
cause gray hair and extra wrinkles, a study found.  Twenty-three of 34 U.S. presidents who died of natural
causes lived longer than expected, according to a research
letter in today’s  Journal of the American Medical Association .  Pictures comparing  presidents  at the start of office with
those taken throughout their terms show grayer hair and more
wrinkles leading some to conclude that the stress of the job is
prematurely aging these men, said S. Jay Olshansky, an author of
the study. Today’s findings show that access to excellent
medical care, education and wealth may play a role in prolonging
life, he said.  “Just because some of the outward signs of aging appear,
doesn’t mean that the rest of the body is aging rapidly,” said
 Olshansky , a professor of epidemiology in the School of  Public
Health  at the  University of Illinois  at  Chicago , in a Dec. 6
telephone interview. “It’s sort of a classic illustration of
the benefits of privilege in terms of longevity.”  In the study, Olshansky used the assumption that presidents
age at twice the normal rate of men who are the same age when
the presidents are inaugurated. He calculated how long the men
were expected to live based on their age the year they were
 inaugurated  and compared it with their ages at death.  Reaching the Average  The study found the average lifespan of the 34 presidents
who died of natural causes was 73 years, about the same as the
estimated average lifespan of men of their time who were the
same age as the presidents when they began their tenure in the
White House.  Of the 23 presidents who lived longer than expected, their
average age at death was 78, higher than the estimated 67 if
they had aged at twice the typical rate, the research found.  For instance,  George Washington , the first U.S. president,
took office when he was 57.2 years old. His expected age of
death was 64.3 years but he died at 67.8 years, Olshansky said.  Ulysses S. Grant , the 18th U.S. president, took office when
he was 46.9 years old and was estimated to die at 60.6 years. He
instead died when he was 63.2 years old, according to the
research. And  Harry S Truman , the country’s 33rd president, was
elected when he was 60.9 years old. Using accelerated aging he
was estimated to die at 68.1 years but in actuality died when he
was 88.6 years.  Modern Duties  The job of the president wasn’t very stressful for a large
time in American history and only became harder with  Franklin Delano Roosevelt ’s New Deal reforms that increased the
responsibility of the executive branch to address the effects of
the Great Depression in the 1930s, said  Russell Riley , chairman
of the Miller Center’s Presidential Oral History Program at the
 University of Virginia  in Charlottesville.  “The data that goes in here could be a little bit skewed
because you don’t have the same kind of problems throughout all
of American history,” Riley said.  Concerns that the presidency may be aging the men who hold
the office at a rapid rate have risen only with the arrival of
television and the ability for the country to see the nation’s
chief executive on a daily basis.  “This notion that the presidency is routinely wearing
people out can be easily overstated because of the living memory
of our own experience,” he said.  Gerald Ford , the 38th president of the U.S., had the
longest lifespan, having died at age 93 on Dec. 6, 2006,
surpassing by about a month  Ronald Reagan , who also lived for 93
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  