-- 
Wells Fargo to Boost Dividend to 80 Cents, Najarian Says

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-12-06T20:15:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/stumpf-wants-to-give-more-dividends-and-buy-back-more-shares.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  will boost its
annualized dividend by 67 percent to 80 cents next year,
according to an estimate by Edward Najarian, an analyst at
International Strategy & Investment Group Inc.  Najarian, head of bank research at ISI, provided his
estimate in a note to clients. The dividend is currently 48
cents, or 12 cents a quarter. Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said that “more means more” on dividends and buybacks
for Wells Fargo investors as the  Federal Reserve  analyzes the
financial strength of U.S. banks. Lenders must submit plans and
receive approval from regulators before boosting payouts.  “We want to return more capital to our shareholders,”
Stumpf said today in  New York  at a conference held by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. “Our shareholders have been very patient.”
Ancel Martinez, a Wells Fargo spokesman, declined to comment on
Najarian’s note.  Stumpf boosted the quarterly dividend at the San Francisco-
based bank from 5 cents to 12 cents earlier this year, and the
company announced it would repurchase 200 million shares. Chief
Financial Officer Timothy J. Sloan told investors Nov. 3 that he
was “optimistic” the Fed would let the firm increase the
payout and repurchase more stock next year. Stumpf slashed the
quarterly payout to 5 cents from 34 cents in 2009.  Najarian was twice named by Institutional Investor as among
the best analysts of large-cap banks, and in 2009 he was ranked
No. 1 in the major-bank category by Forbes magazine, according
to  ISI’s website .  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  are among lenders
that may have to temper plans to raise dividends and buy back
stock next year as the Fed strengthens capital tests for the
biggest U.S. banks.  Fed’s Standards  The Fed has imposed the tougher standards on the 31 largest
banks, releasing the criteria for measuring their wherewithal if
the economy sours and major trading partners default on their
debt. Under the Fed’s  Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, 
or CCAR, lenders need to prove they have the capital to
withstand a “severe” U.S. recession before they can increase
dividends or repurchase shares.  “I don’t have a lot of concerns about the tests from
Wells’s perspective,” Stumpf said. “The strength of our
balance sheet and strong earnings that we’ve had, we’re going to
have that reflected in our CCAR.”  Wells Fargo fell 14 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with the 24 percent decline in the 24-company  KBW Bank
Index. (BKX)  Citigroup, based in New York, dropped 37 percent and
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America tumbled 57
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  