-- 
Vale to Resume Iron-Ore Loading at Brazil Port After Leak

-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-12-06T20:21:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/stx-vale-mega-ship-to-be-moved-at-brazil-port-after-leak-found.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s biggest iron-ore
miner, said a damaged ship moored at a port in northeast  Brazil 
was towed away from the pier, allowing loading to resume.  The Vale Beijing, a commodity ship longer than three
American football fields, was moved from the Ponta da Madeira
port to an anchoring area where its operator,  STX Pan Ocean Co. (067250) ,
will assess damage after a leak in a ballast tank, Vale said
today in a regulatory filing. The loading of about 750,000
metric tons of iron ore was affected by the stoppage.  The leak in the $110 million vessel, which was carrying
about 384,000 tons of iron ore, was found about two months after
the ship was delivered to its Seoul-based operator STX Pan
Ocean. The vessel was designed and built by STX Pan Ocean, Rio
de Janeiro-based Vale said in the statement.  Vale rose 0.1 percent to 40.53 reais in  Sao Paulo . The
stock dropped 16 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent
decline in Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  Chinese Opposition  The ship is the first in a fleet of eight that STX will
operate under a $5.8 billion, 25-year deal with Vale. The
Brazilian company intends to control 35 vessels as big as the
Beijing to pare risks from fluctuating freight rates.  The ships, the biggest built for hauling commodities, have
sparked opposition from shipowners in China, the biggest buyer
of iron ore, because of concerns they may worsen global
overcapacity that has caused a slump in cargo rates.  The Vale Brasil, the biggest commodity ship ever built, was
designed to carry iron ore to  China  from  South America . The
company ships about 45 percent of sales to the Asian nation and
plans to buy 19 vessels for $2.3 billion.  The Vale vessels are about twice as big as the capesize
ships that are generally used to ferry commodities from Brazil
to China. The miner plans to send about 130 million tons of iron
ore on the route both this year and next.  The Ponta da Madeira terminal is located on the eastern
shore of Sao Marcos bay on the island of Sao Luis, in Maranhao
state, according to Vale’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Price in  Buenos Aires  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  