-- 
Sudan Exports More Gold to Boost Foreign-Currency Reserves

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 
2011-12-06T14:53:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/sudan-exports-more-gold-to-boost-foreign-currency-reserves-1-.html
Sudan  boosted gold exports to offset
the loss of oil production when South Sudan seceded in July and
ensure it has sufficient foreign-currency reserves, central bank
Vice President Badr Eddin Abbas said.  The North African country’s reserves currently stand at $10
billion, enough to cover four months worth of imports, Abbas
told reporters today in Khartoum, the capital. Sudan experienced
a “sharp shortage” of foreign currency after the loss of oil
revenue when South Sudan seceded, the Sudan Tribune news website
reported on Nov. 1.  “It’s not true that Sudan has a shortage in foreign
currency,” Abbas said. “Although we haven’t received any oil
fees from the south, we’ve compensated this by increasing the
exports of gold.”  Sudan lost three-quarters of its oil production, the third-
biggest output in sub-Saharan  Africa , when South Sudan gained
independence on July 9. Protests were held in September and
October against the country’s rising cost of living and
worsening economic conditions.  Sudan produced 1,922 kilograms (61,794 ounces) of gold in
2009, compared with 2,276 kilograms a year earlier, according to
data published on the website of the  U.S. Geological Survey .
Revenue from the metal may increase to $3 billion this year from
about $70 million in 2010, al-Tayar, a Khartoum-based newspaper,
reported on Sept. 18.  Non-petroleum exports increased 22 percent in the third
quarter of 2011 from the same period last year, Abbas said,
without providing further information.  Sudan’s budget deficit may narrow to 3.4 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 from 4.4 percent this year, according
to a document presented to the nation’s parliament by Finance
Minister Ali Mahmoud Abdel Rasoul today in Khartoum, the
capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  