-- 
Sweden to Shun Euro for Long Time Amid ‘Severe’ Woes, Borg Says

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-12-06T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/sweden-to-shun-euro-for-long-time-amid-severe-woes-borg-says.html
Sweden  is unlikely to seek euro
accession for a long time as voters recoil from the currency
bloc’s deepening crisis, Finance Minister Anders Borg said.  Swedish backing for euro adoption fell to a record low in
November, with less than 10 percent of voters supporting a
currency switch, according to a Skop poll released this week.  “We can be very clear that it will be a long time before
Sweden is a part of the currency unit,” Borg said in an
interview in Copenhagen yesterday. “It has not worked as we
expected. The problems have been much more severe.”  Sweden, which has reduced its government debt burden since
the financial crisis started in 2007, pays less to borrow for 10
and 30 years than  Germany , the largest euro-area economy. The
benefits of being outside the euro were underlined this week
after  Standard & Poor’s  put the credit grades of AAA rated
Germany and  France , as well as 13 other euro nations, under
review for downgrades, citing political disagreements that are
exacerbating the risks facing the bloc.  Borg, who says he’s not a euro skeptic and wants Sweden to
join the currency bloc in the long term, urged strict adherence
to austerity programs for the bloc’s most indebted nations to
create a better backdrop for the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  to step up their support.  “The key for the politicians should be to do the fiscal
stuff correctly and if there would be an opportunity for the IMF
or the ECB to step in, that, I think, could calm down the
situation more substantially,” he said.  Euro Survival  Europe ’s leaders have failed to solve the common currency’s
turmoil 19 months after  Greece  became the first nation in the
bloc to seek external aid to stay afloat. As a result, the 
hierarchy in the debt markets is shifting as even Germany 
displays symptoms of becoming ensnared in the turmoil and 
investors start to question the survival of the euro.  In Sweden, government debt will narrow to 36.3 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 40.2 percent in 2007,
according to the European Commission’s latest estimates
published Nov. 10. Sweden will post a  budget surplus  for a
second year in 2011, and remain in the black throughout the
commission’s forecast horizon through 2013.  Germany’s government, by contrast, will post debt
equivalent to 81.7 percent of GDP this year, compared with the
euro area’s targeted limit of 60 percent, a level Germany has
breached each year since at least 2005. The euro area will have
an average debt burden equivalent to 88 percent of GDP this
year, and a deficit of 4.1 percent, the commission estimates.  Self Discipline  “We have been able to show self discipline, to do
structural reforms,” Borg said in the interview. “But I think
the demands on discipline are higher if you’re outside and that
is probably an advantage at least in these kinds of difficult
times. Obviously, we believe in European integration.”  Swedish 10-year bonds yield about 40 basis points less than
similar-maturity German bunds, while it costs the largest Nordic
country 48 basis points less than Germany to borrow for 30
years. Swedish bonds with maturities 10 years or longer have
returned 27 percent this year, including reinvested interest,
making them the world’s best-performing government debt class,
according to Bloomberg data.  Swedish central bank First Deputy Governor Svante Oeberg
said yesterday the euro region's crisis shouldn't alter Sweden's
long-term goal of joining the currency bloc.  `Increased Stability'  ``The arguments for joining haven't been strengthened by 
this crisis but I still believe that it's good to be part'' of 
the euro, Oeberg said in response to Bloomberg questions. ``I 
think it will bring increased stability.''  Being outside the euro isn’t necessarily a ticket to better
fiscal health, Borg said separately, in a response to questions
from the audience at a speech yesterday at the  Copenhagen
Business School .  “We have in the long term gained competitiveness that has
very little to do with the currency,” he said. “The krona is a
factor. It is still probably beneficial for us.”  The krona is little changed against the euro this year,
having slipped less than 1 percent since the end of December. It
lost 0.6 percent versus the dollar in the period.  “A floating  exchange rate  can be an asset but for most of
the years that I’ve worked with the Swedish economy, it has been
a factor that is also quite complicated to deal with when it
comes to a downturn in the world economy,” Borg told the
audience at CBS. “This time, it worked and in general I think
it’s actually been an asset. To my mind, it would be an
advantage for Sweden eventually to join the euro system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 