-- 
Swiss Franc Declines to One-Month Low Against Euro Amid SNB Speculation

-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-12-07T12:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/swiss-franc-weakens-versus-u-s-dollar-euro-after-consumer-prices-drop.html
The Swiss  franc  reached a one-month
low against the euro after a lawmaker said a government panel is
considering using negative  interest rates  to combat the
currency’s appreciation.  The franc declined versus 14 of its 16 major counterparts
after Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said negative
interest rates and  capital controls  “are issues which are being
examined” by a committee looking at ways to counter the
currency’s strength. The statement added to speculation the
 Swiss National Bank  will adjust the franc’s cap at 1.20 per euro
at its policy meeting on Dec. 15.  “The market is nervous ahead of next week’s SNB meeting
with speculation growing that it may raise the franc floor based
on both lower growth and the inflation outlook,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. in  London . “Comments over negative rates or other capital
control measures are reinforcing near-term franc bearishness.”  The franc dropped 0.1 percent to 1.2417 per euro at 11:57
a.m. in London after falling to 1.24438, the weakest since Nov.
8. The currency declined 0.2 percent to 92.80 centimes per
dollar, and fell 0.2 percent to 83.78 yen.  The Swiss currency slid as a much as 0.7 percent against
the euro on Dec. 1 after the government said it was willing to
“examine the feasibility of supporting measures,” including
negative interest rates, to aid the SNB in its defense of the
Swiss currency’s ceiling.  Reports in the past two weeks showing a  slide in consumer
prices and third-quarter growth that was the slowest in more
than two years has fueled speculation the SNB will act to curb
the franc next week. Unemployment held at 3 percent in November,
the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs said today, the
lowest since January 2009.  The franc has weakened 5 percent in the past six months,
the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  