-- 
U.K. REIT Law Changes to Open Door to Takeovers From Overseas Companies

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-12-06T17:02:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/u-k-reit-law-changes-to-open-door-to-takeovers-from-overseas-companies.html
U.K. real estate investment trusts
will be more vulnerable to takeover by investors from outside of
Britain under rules proposed today for the tax-exempt companies.  The changes “will allow more cross-border M&A activity,”
said Phil Nicklin, head of  accounting firm  Deloitte LLP’s unit
specializing in REITs. “Investment banks are already talking to
me about this.”  The U.K. Treasury proposed the  draft law today  that would
allow British units of overseas companies to qualify for REIT
tax exemptions by loosening regulations on ownership and stock-
exchange listings. The rules would also abolish a charge to
become a REIT equal to 2 percent of a company’s net asset value.  U.K. properties or companies would be eligible for REIT
status if their owners’ shares trade on overseas exchanges as
well as the Alternative Investment Market and the exchange in
London run by Plus Markets Group Plc, the Treasury said today.  The rules would adjust the criteria for qualifying as
a REIT and change the rules on how and when taxes are collected.  “The changes will make REITs more cost-effective and
easier to operate,” said Rosalind Rowe, a partner at
 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . The changes may also “open up the
market to a new group of investors, potentially including
pension schemes and insurance companies.”  New REITs  As many as 40 new REITs will be spawned by the
modifications announced today, Nicklin estimated. The U.K.
 currently has 23  with a market value of about 20 billion pounds.  Most new REITs would be conversions of funds now based
in low-tax offshore jurisdictions such as  Jersey , said Mike Prew, a Jefferies & Co. analyst. The funds would seek REIT
status to avoid additional costs created by a European Union
directive that will tighten regulation and supervision, he said.  REITs in the U.K. avoid corporation or capital gains taxes
in return for paying investors 90 percent of the income
generated by their property. The changes proposed, the most
sweeping to rules first introduced in 2007, will likely be
adopted when lawmakers vote on the next fiscal year budget by
the second quarter of 2012.  New Rules  The new rules may help the creation of residential REITs as
the government seeks to attract investment into private rented
accommodation, said Marion Cane, an  executive director  at  Ernst
& Young LLP’s  tax advisory arm for real estate, hospitality and
construction. No U.K. residential REITs currently exist.  In March, the government lowered the tax cost of acquiring
groups of properties by changing the way it calculates the stamp
duty, which is a property-transfer tax.  That change, combined with the rules being proposed today,
“will help residential REITs, particularly as they build up a
portfolio,” Ernst & Young’s Cane said.  London & Stamford Property Plc (LSP) , a REIT that owns a stake in
one of the U.K.’s largest malls, said last month that it may set
up a separate residential REIT as it acquires housing assets.  Helical Bar Plc (HLCL) , which isn’t a REIT, may consider creating
one for the residential properties that it’s developing, Chief
Executive Officer Mike Slade said in an interview.  “Further changes are still needed to encourage residential
and social housing REITs,” said Nicklin at Deloitte. They need
to be able to trade real estate, which is something that current
rules preclude, he said.  The rules wouldn’t allow for the creation of private REITs,
according to the Treasury. Closely held real estate companies
can qualify for the tax exemptions if they seek to sell shares
on a  London  exchange within three years.  Current rules require REITs to have 25 percent of their
shares widely held by investors. Pension funds, insurance
companies, sovereign-wealth funds and mutual funds will be
exempted from the rule, the Treasury said today. Charities,
banks and REITs domiciled outside the U.K. wouldn’t qualify for
the exemption.  The Treasury has asked for responses to the proposals by
Feb. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 