-- 
U.K. Two-Year Yield Drops to Record as Germany, France Warned on Ratings

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-12-06T17:17:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/u-k-two-year-yield-drops-to-record-as-germany-france-warned-on-ratings.html
U.K. 10-year gilts gained the most in
three weeks and two-year yields dropped to a record after
Standard & Poor’s said Germany and  France  may be downgraded as
policy makers remain divided on how to solve the region’s
crisis.  Thirty-year yields slid as reports showed U.K. retail sales
fell the most in six months in November and  house prices 
declined, while demand picked up at a sale of the securities.
Sterling weakened against the dollar and the yen as investors
sought a haven after S&P put the region’s six AAA rated
countries on negative outlook, pending the outcome of a European
Union leaders’ summit on Dec. 8-9. Such downgrades may result in
the European Financial Stability Facility, a bailout fund, to
also lose its top credit, S&P said separately.  “Gilts outperformed bunds today because the U.K. is not in
the euro zone,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at
Monument Securities in London. “The U.K. may not be in a
fantastic place, but in relative terms, some people see it as a
safe haven with what’s going on in  Europe .”  The 10-year gilt yield fell 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 2.25 percent at 4:57 p.m. London time, the
biggest one-day drop in yields since Nov. 14. The 3.75 percent
securities due September 2021 rose 0.920, or 9.20 pounds per
1,000-pound ($1,561) face amount, to 113.080. Two-year yields
fell two basis points to 0.37 after touching a record low 0.351
percent.  The yield  spread  between 10-year gilts and equivalent-
maturity German bunds narrowed by eight basis points to 0.08
percentage point.  Coupon Payments  Gilts have returned 14 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds gained 7.2 percent
during the same period, the indexes show.  U.K. government bonds were also supported on speculation
investors will reinvest coupon earnings due tomorrow, Ostwald
said. The payments total 7.37 billion pounds, according to the
Debt Management Office.  French and German bonds fell after the warning from
 Standard & Poor’s . The yield on French 10-year debt rose 11
basis points to 3.24 percent with the yield on similar-maturity
bunds climbing by as much as six basis points to 2.27 percent
before trading two basis points lower 2.19 percent.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will probably
cut the benchmark  interest rate  a quarter point to buoy the
economy when policy makers meet Dec. 8, according to the median
of 58 economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Repo Facility  The pound was 0.4 percent weaker to $1.5581 and lost 0.5
percent to 121.12 yen. Sterling was down 0.4 percent at 85.96
pence per euro.  “The dollar is outperforming the pound in a risk-off
environment,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in  London . “That’s affected other
currency crosses including the euro versus the pound.”  Sterling has fallen 3.6 percent in the past 12 months,
making it the worst performer among 10 developed-market peers
measured by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Two-year notes briefly pared gains after the  Bank of
England  introduced a new facility to provide market liquidity to
address potential strains in financial markets.  The Extended Collateral Term Repo will provide funding
against the widest range of collateral, the London-based central
bank said in an e-mailed statement today. The operations will
offer sterling for 30 days against collateral currently allowed
for use in the bank’s Discount Window Facility.  Euro Crisis  Thirty-year gilts extended gains after demand picked up at
an auction of the 4.25 percent bond maturing in 2040. The sale
today drew bids 1.98 times the amount of securities of offer,
compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 1.95 times at a previous
sale in July. The average accepted price rose to 117.92 from
101.25. The yield on 30-year gilts fell 13 basis points to 3.19
percent.  U.K.  house prices  dropped 0.9 percent from October, when
they rose 1.2 percent, Halifax, the mortgage unit of Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, said today.  The euro crisis may further hurt the U.K. economy,
according to ING Bank. The country’s output would fall more than
9 percent and the pound could rise 25 percent on a trade-
weighted basis if the 17-nation euro area breaks up, it said.  “Given the level of trade and the scale of financial
linkages with the  euro zone , such an outcome would have grave
consequences for the U.K.,” London-based ING economist  James Knightley  said in an e-mailed note to clients.  The DMO today said it will hold 13 gilt auctions in the
three months from January through March. It may sell long-dated
conventional gilts through banks in January and long-dated
index-linked bonds in the same way in February, the debt agency
said in the minutes of its meeting yesterday with primary
dealers and investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrchate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 