-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise on Speculation Europe Will Act on Debt Crisis

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-12-06T22:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/u-s-stock-futures-fluctuate-after-s-p-puts-15-nations-on-review.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher a second day, on speculation
European leaders may act to contain the debt crisis after S&P
put 15 euro nations on review for possible downgrade.  3M Co. (MMM)  added 1.5 percent as revenue may increase as much as
6 percent next year amid a boost from acquisitions.  General
Electric Co. (GE)  rose 2.4 percent as Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
raised its recommendation.  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , operator of
the Red Lobster chain, tumbled 12 percent after cutting its
full-year sales and profit growth forecasts.  The  S&P 500  advanced 0.1 percent to 1,258.47 at 4 p.m. New
York time, rebounding from an earlier drop of 0.3 percent. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  added 52.30 points, or 0.4 percent,
to 12,150.13. About 6.3 billion shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges, or 19 percent below the three-month average.  “The market wants to go higher,”  Dan Veru , chief
investment officer at Fort Lee, New Jersey-based Palisade
Capital Management LLC, which manages $3.4 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “Europe is finally talking on a
constructive manner to solving its problems. If they come up
with something that’s credible, this market has another 7
percent to 10 percent to the upside.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said S&P’s
warning will help force European leaders to ratchet up efforts
to resolve the crisis. S&P said today the European Financial
Stability Facility may lose its top credit rating if any of its
guarantors have their own debt grade cut.  Bigger Rescue  Stocks turned higher in the afternoon as the Financial
Times reported that officials are negotiating a bigger rescue
effort to discuss at this week’s European Union summit,
including running two separate bailout funds simultaneously.
Bloomberg News reported discussions about the combination of the
temporary and permanent rescue funds on Oct. 20.  “ Europe  is going to be an ongoing story,” Thomas Garcia,
head of equity trading at Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg
Investment Management Inc., which oversees about $75 billion,
said in a telephone interview. “It seems like every day they’ve
got a new solution of the problem. I hear at least one new story
of a bailout package every day. Is this really what’s going to
bail them out?”  3M rallied 1.5 percent to $82.13. Sales may be $30.2
billion to $31.5 billion, according to a presentation on the
company’s  website,  in line with the $30.6 billion average
estimate from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The maker of
Scotch-Brite sponges and Nexcare thermometers expects earnings
per share of $6.25 to $6.50 next year, also tracking estimates.  GE Gains  GE added 2.4 percent to $16.72. Sanford C. Bernstein raised
its recommendation for the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company
to “outperform” from “market perform,” citing rising
dividends and energy orders starting in 2012.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  advanced 3.9 percent to $38.86, the highest
price since Nov. 8. Shares of the drugmaker could rise more than
50 percent should its drug for  Alzheimer’s disease  succeed,
Sanford C. Bernstein said in a note to clients.  A gauge of 12 homebuilders in S&P indexes rallied 1.2
percent.  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  gained 2.7 percent to $21.30. The
largest U.S. luxury-home builder reported earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates as prices rose and sales improved at its
East Coast communities.  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  added 7.8 percent to $9 for
the biggest gain in the S&P 500. The pay-as-you-go U.S. wireless
carrier was raised to “outperform” from “market perform” at
William Blair & Co., which said the stock’s price doesn’t
reflect the company’s “healthy balance sheet.”  Darden Tumbles  Darden fell 12 percent, the most in three years, to $41.82.
The restaurant operator said sales and profit this year will
grow more slowly than previously forecast as the company works
to revive its Olive Garden chain.  A measure of  transportation (S5TRAN)  shares had the biggest decline
in the S&P 500 among 24 industries, falling 0.8 percent.  Union
Pacific Corp. (UNP)  lost 1.7 percent to $102.84.  Laszlo Birinyi says he knew it would be hard to make
predictions for 2012 in October, when he saw a headline
suggesting that markets would rise or fall depending on whether
the tiny nation of Slovakia approved a bailout plan for Europe.  Birinyi, president of stock market research and money-
management firm Birinyi Associates Inc., says markets are so
volatile that it doesn’t take much to send them reeling, reports
Bloomberg Markets magazine in its January issue.  “There are so many exogenous factors that to try to
forecast the market with a degree of confidence is difficult,”
Birinyi says.  The best strategy for stock investors, he says, is to stick
with iconic brands, such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  or  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) ,
and with companies that offer “meaningful dividends” of at
least 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  