-- 
U.S. Consumer Bureau Proposes Simplified Credit-Card Form

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-12-07T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/u-s-consumer-bureau-said-to-plan-simplified-credit-card-form.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau announced plans for a simplified credit-card
agreement that spells out the cost of using credit cards in
easy-to-understand English.  The standardized, two-page card agreement outlines prices,
risks and terms that are shorter and more concise than
conventional agreements, augmented by an online glossary to aid
consumers on such items as billing disputes, privacy, rights,
interest-rate calculations and the consequences of late
payments.  “Credit cards can be complicated,” Raj Date, a special
adviser to the Treasury secretary, said in a statement. “With a
short, simple, easy-to-understand credit card agreement,
consumers can clearly see the terms of the deal and make
decisions that are right for them.”  Date will announce the “Know Before Your Owe” project at
a news conference in  Cleveland  today, the statement said.  The agency is seeking public comment on the  prototype  at
its website. It is testing the prototype with the Pentagon
Federal Credit Union, which has more than 1 million members and
about 350,000 cardholders.  Use of the documents would be voluntary for credit card
issuers. Major card issuers such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Discover Financial Services (DFS)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  generally
support improved disclosure, though they have expressed concern
that standardized forms can restrict the range of financial
products, said Kenneth Clayton, chief counsel to the  American
Bankers Association .  ‘Clarifying’ for Consumers  “Whether it is disclosures or agreements, we are all for
clarifying things for consumers so they can make their own
informed decisions,” Clayton said in an e-mail before the
announcement was made. He said that card issuers want the
ability to offer a variety of products because “we have a very
broad public with diverse interests.”  Consumers hold about 514 million credit cards and used them
to spend about $1.9 trillion last year, with credit card debt
estimated at $700 billion, the agency said in a statement.  The agency is acting under a credit card law adopted more
than two years ago. The goal of that law was to make credit card
costs more predictable, reducing the risk of surprise on
 interest rates  or other charges.  Confusing Terms  Even so, about two-thirds of consumers don’t completely
understand how credit cards work, the agency said, citing a
study by J.D. Power and Associates, a  Westlake Village ,
California-based marketing information services company.
Difficulty in understanding terms of credit card agreements,
such as interest rates, fees, billing and payments, account for
many consumer complaints, the consumer agency said.  Nick Bourke, manager of the Safe Credit Cards Project at
the Pew Charitable Trusts, a nonprofit research group, said the
clearer disclosures would help sound decision-making.  “People need information to be able to control their costs
over time,” Bourke said in an interview.  The proposals, the first on credit cards by the consumer
bureau, follow the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and
Disclosure Act of 2009, which imposed consumer-protection rules
on issuers.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  praised the effort
on credit cards as a reason why the Senate should confirm
 Richard Cordray , President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to be the
bureau’s first director. The Senate could take a procedural vote
on the nomination as early as tomorrow.  ‘Borrow Responsibly’  The agency is “making it easier for people to borrow
responsibly and understand the risks they take to borrow, choose
who they borrow from,” Geithner told reporters Dec. 1.  Elizabeth Warren , the former Obama administration adviser
who set up the consumer agency, made credit-card disclosures a
priority in December 2010. Her stated goal was to improve
consumers’ ability to shop around for credit cards.  The initiative on credit cards follows similar projects,
dubbed “Know Before You Owe,” that the consumer bureau has
undertaken on mortgages and student loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 