-- 
U.S. May Allow Teva’s Morning-After Pill Without Prescription for All Ages

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-12-06T22:38:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/u-s-may-allow-teva-s-morning-after-pill-without-prescription-for-all-ages.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s
emergency contraceptive may be the first approved for over-the-
counter use by females of any age under a decision being
considered by U.S. regulators.  In 2009, a federal court said restrictions on the drug,
which reduces pregnancy risk if taken within three days of sex,
were arbitrary, based more on political pressure than safety.
Teva in February asked that the Food and Drug Administration
review rules that the drug be kept behind pharmacy counters and
sold without a prescription only to women older than age 17.  The FDA action has drawn mixed reviews. Supporters say a
change will allow for quicker access when it’s most needed, and
an industry analyst said it may be a catalyst for Teva’s fading
stock. Foes say that allowing younger girls unrestricted access
means they may not get needed counseling or testing for sexually
transmitted diseases.  “This means that all women will have timely access to this
safe backup method of contraception if they need it,” said Amy
Allina, a program director at the National Women’s Health
Network in  Washington . “We are extremely optimistic.”  Donna Harrison of the  American Association  of Pro-Life
Obstetricians and Gynecologists, based in Holland,  Michigan ,
said that along with concerns about testing and counseling, U.S.
officials should consider that predatory males may force minors
to use the product.  “This is not a health product,” Harrison said. “We are
isolating the women who need to see doctors most.”  Sales Increase  Sales of Plan B increased 120 percent when it became
available without prescription for women 18 and older in 2006,
Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva said. If the FDA approves Plan B
for over-the-counter use by all ages, competing products,
including generic brands and  Watson Pharmaceutical (WPI)  Inc.’s Ella,
will remain behind the pharmacy counter.  Teva investors have been “starved for good news
recently,” said Judson Clark, an analyst with Edward Jones &
Co. in  Des Peres , Missouri “We’ve been seeing a mostly negative
story.” He said the decision could boost the company’s shares.  The company’s American depositary receipts gained less than
1 percent to $40.05 at the close in  New York . Each receipt is
equal to one ordinary share. The receipts have declined 23
percent this year.  Marion Glick, a Teva spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to requests for an interview on the FDA’s pending
decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  