-- 
U.S. States, Cities Face Accounting Push to Disclose Five-Year Projections

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-12-06T05:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/u-s-states-cities-face-accounting-push-to-disclose-five-year-projections.html
U.S. accounting regulators want state
and local governments to put financial projections in their
annual reports, a shift they say would give investors a more
accurate picture of the fiscal pressure facing municipalities.  The Governmental Accounting Standards Board, which sets the
rules followed by companies that audit reports, said today that
municipalities should be forced to disclose five-year
projections of revenue, expenses and other obligations,
including debt service and pension costs.  “Users of financial reports are looking for additional
information,” Robert Attmore, chairman of the Norwalk,
Connecticut-based board, said in an interview. “They need this
to be able to determine the financial health or the financial
viability of the government.”  The recession and the 2008 credit crisis exposed the
vulnerability of municipalities as  tax revenue  faltered,
pensions lost money and financial turmoil hit them with
spiraling interest bills. The pressure has since left public
officials struggling with budget deficits and raised concern
about the ability of governments to pay their bills.  GASB joins other regulators scrutinizing state and local
governments’ disclosures. The Securities and Exchange Commission
is examining whether to overhaul the rules covering local
governments that raise money by selling bonds. The Dodd-Frank
law passed by Congress in 2010 requires the U.S. Government
Accountability Office to report on whether changes are needed.  First Step  The announcement by GASB marks the first step toward
changing U.S. accounting rules, a process that may not be
completed for two years should the board move forward, Attmore
said.  GASB plans to hold hearings and solicit comments before
deciding whether to draft a proposed change. While GASB rules
aren’t federally enforced, they are followed by auditors who
determine whether annual reports comply with generally accepted
accounting principles.  The proposal released today would show whether governments
are poised to face rising pension costs by failing to make their
annual payments into retirement funds.  “The current economic downturn has emphasized what has
been known for a long time: Information is not always publicly
available regarding the financial challenges facing
governments,’” Attmore said.  Disclosing Dependence  The proposal would also force officials to disclose how
dependent they are on funds from other governments.  Struggling with their own shortfalls, some states have
withheld funding for localities. According to a survey by the
 National League of Cities  this year, 60 percent of city
officials said their governments were affected by decreased
state aid. Looming federal budget cuts may threaten military-
dominated economies or programs that states and cities rely
upon.  The federal government’s plight has underscored the need
for more disclosure, Attmore said.  “That creates some increased anxiety among users of state
and local government reports,” Attmore said. “At the current
time, you don’t get to see those dependencies between those
different levels of government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  