-- 
Treasuries Drop on Speculation European Summit Will Resolve Debt Turmoil

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-12-06T22:13:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/u-s-treasuries-decline-as-gains-in-u-s-stock-futures-damp-haven-demand.html
Treasuries fell as speculation this
week’s European summit in Brussels will succeed in resolving the
debt crisis reduced demand for a refuge.  Thirty-year bonds led the decline as  Germany ’s Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  called a downgrade warning for 15
euro-area governments from Standard & Poor’s the “best
encouragement.” U.S. debt securities extended their drop after
the Financial Times reported that Europeans are thinking about
doubling the amount of the rescue package.  “The market is expecting positive developments out of
 Europe ,” said Christopher Bury, co-head of fixed-income rates
in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve. “That’s
contributing to the sell-off.”  Yields on 30-year bonds increased seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 3.10 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125
percent securities maturing in November 2041 fell 1 12/32, or
$13.75 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 1/2.  Two-year note yields were little changed at 0.25 percent.
Yields on 10-year notes advanced five basis points to 2.09
percent. The  extra yield  investors get to hold 10-year notes
instead of two-year notes increased to 1.83 percentage points.
The spread was 1.89 percentage points last week, the widest
since Nov. 14.  About $180.5 billion of  Treasuries  changed hands today
through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker. The
figure was below the average of $294 billion for 2011, according
to ICAP.  Fed Debt Buying  The  Federal Reserve  purchased $2.512 billion of Treasuries
today due from February 2036 to August 2041 today as part of a
plan announced in September to replace $400 billion of shorter
maturities in its holdings with longer-term debt to support the
economy by keeping borrowing costs low.  Treasuries have risen this year as Europe’s failure to deal
with its debt crisis encouraged investors to take refuge. U.S.
government debt securities returned 8.9 percent in the first 11
months of 2011, while German bonds have increased 7.1 percent.  Negotiators are considering allowing the euro zone’s
existing 440 billion euro ($590 billion) bail-out fund to
continue running when a new 500 billion euro facility comes into
force in mid-2012, the Financial Times reported.  European governments may unleash as much as 940 billion
euros to fight the debt crisis by combining the temporary and
planned permanent rescue funds, two people familiar with the
discussions told Bloomberg News in October, declining to be
identified because a decision rests with political leaders.  S&P View  Bonds pared their losses earlier today as S&P said the
European Financial Stability Facility may lose its top  credit
rating  if any of its six guarantors face a downgrade from AAA.  “We could lower the long-term credit rating on EFSF by one
or two notches if we were to lower the AAA sovereign ratings,
which are currently on CreditWatch, on one or more of EFSF’s
guarantor members,” S&P said in a statement today.  The ratings company said it “could affirm the AAA ratings
on EFSF and its issues if we affirm the rating on all six of
EFSF’s guarantor members currently rated AAA.” Germany,  France ,
the Netherlands,  Finland , Austria and Luxembourg are the top-
rated nations backing the rescue fund.  S&P said in a statement yesterday that it expected to
“conclude our review of euro-zone sovereign ratings as soon as
possible following the EU summit” on Dec. 8-9.  Ratings Outlook  The company said the ratings of euro-area nations may be
lowered by up to one level for  Austria ,  Belgium , Finland,
Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg and up to two levels for
the other governments.  “The market is waiting for Friday with the summit,” said
Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading in New York at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a brokerage for institutional
investors.  The U.S. Treasury Department sold $35 billion in four-week
bills at a rate of zero percent. The offering carried a bid-to-
cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with
the amount of securities offered, of 7.66, the highest since
Bloomberg News started tracking auctions of the security in
August 2001.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the interest
rate swap spread, narrowed to 42.6 basis points. The measure of
stress in credit markets rose to 59.25 basis points on Nov. 22,
the highest since May 2010.  European Summit  The London interbank offered  rate , today increased to 0.538
percent, the highest level since June 2010. The borrowing
benchmark has fallen one day since June.  Germany  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  stressed their determination before this week’s
summit to save the euro.  The nations are “united in their resolve to take all
necessary measures together with their European partners and the
European institutions to safeguard the stability of the  euro
zone ,” according to their statement e-mailed late yesterday
after the S&P announcement.  “You have hopefully a better situation formulating in
Germany,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of
Treasury trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York.
“Treasuries are in a defensive posture.”  Supply  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE  index , which measure
price swings in Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter
options maturing in two- to 30 years, dropped yesterday to the
2011 average of 94 basis points, which is the lowest level since
Sept. 21. The gauge reached a high of 117.8 basis points on Aug.
8, three days after S&P lowered the U.S. credit rating to AA+
from AAA.  The Treasury may announce Dec. 8 it will sell $32 billion
in three-year notes, $21 billion in 10-year debt, $13 billion in
30-year bonds and $12 billion in five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities next week, the same as the previous
auctions of similar maturities in October, according to primary
dealer  RBC Capital Markets  in a note to clients today. The U.S.
previously sold $12 billion in five-year TIPS on Aug. 18.  “Supply is contributing to the sell-off,” Bury of
Jefferies said. “We’re expecting higher yield levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  