-- 
U.S. Stock Futures Rise on Optimism Over ECB

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-12-06T12:37:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/u-s-stock-futures-fluctuate-after-s-p-puts-15-nations-on-rating-review.html
U.S. stock futures rebounded from
earlier losses on speculation that the  European Central Bank 
will take more steps to contain the debt crisis after  Standard &
Poor’s  put 15 euro-area nations on credit-rating review.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  advanced in
Germany.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest software maker,
rose in early New York trading.  Futures on the  S&P 500  expiring this month climbed 0.4
percent to 1,259.4 at 7:34 a.m. in New York, after dropping as
much as 0.8 percent. The Dow Jones Industrial Average contract
added 47 points, or 0.4 percent, to 12,113 points.  The S&P 500 yesterday increased 1 percent, extending its
best weekly gain since March 2009. Improving U.S. economic data
reduced concern that the debt crisis will threaten the recovery
in the world’s largest economy.  Germany  and France said they
will push for rewriting European Union rules to enforce stricter
budget discipline, at a regional summit on Dec. 9 in Brussels.  The statement from S&P “should add a little more urgency
to politicians to find a solution,” Yusuf Heusen, a sales
trader at IG Index in London, wrote in e-mailed comments. “It
does feel as if investors are happy for now to give politicians
a few more days and await the outcome of this Friday’s latest
euro meeting.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  will probably cut the benchmark
interest rate a quarter point to buoy the economy when policy
makers meet Dec. 8, according to 58 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  Fiscal Union  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy said after the S&P statement that they
“reinforce their conviction” that common proposals for closer
fiscal union in the EU will lead the way out of the crisis.  Germany,  France  and four other euro-area nations may lose
their AAA credit ratings depending on the result of the summit
of European Union leaders on Dec. 9, S&P said yesterday after
the close of markets. The ratings company put 15 euro nations on
review for possible downgrade.  “Systemic stress in the euro zone has risen in recent
weeks and reached such a level that a review of all euro-zone
sovereign ratings is warranted,” S&P said in a statement.  Bailout Fund  Downgrades of Germany and France would affect the rating of
the European Financial Stability Facility, the bailout fund for
struggling euro-member countries that has funded rescue packages
for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  partially through bond sales.
If the EFSF has to pay higher interest on its bonds, it may not
be able to provide as much funding for the most-indebted
nations.  “The stakes have been raised for this week’s EU summit
following the warning from S&P,” Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at
London Capital Group, wrote in a note today. “Any failure by
European policy makers to reach an agreement -- or if they
produce another unsatisfactory plan -- could see swift action
from the ratings agency.”  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said S&P’s
threat to downgrade credit ratings across Europe will encourage
leaders meeting in Paris to make the right decisions to resolve
the financial crisis. European countries cannot avoid cutting
their debts, Schaeuble said today at a panel discussion in
Vienna.  United Technologies  climbed 0.5 percent to $77.04 in
Germany. Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
and mining equipment, advanced 0.8 percent to $97.59.  Microsoft added 0.2 percent to $25.76 in early New York
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 