-- 
U.S. Studies Derivatives That ’Game’ Tax Rules

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-12-06T17:52:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/u-s-analyzes-great-difficulties-of-taxing-financial-products.html
U.S. lawmakers seeking to overhaul
the Internal Revenue Code are examining how derivatives and
other financial products can be used to exploit the tax system.  Financial instruments, including exchange-traded notes and
options, are susceptible to manipulation, according to a  report 
by the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation. Taxpayers can
structure transactions to defer income, accelerate deductible
losses and take advantage of lower  capital gains  rates.  “Because our system of taxation has no basis in the
reality of economics, sophisticated taxpayers are free to choose
a tax treatment that minimizes their taxes, and choose they
do,” said  David Miller , a partner at Cadwalader, Wickersham &
Taft LLP in  New York , at a joint hearing of the House Ways and
Means and Senate Finance committees in Washington today.  Another witness at the hearing, Alex Raskolnikov, a
professor at  Columbia Law School , said the tax treatment of
financial products must be overhauled and can’t be changed
piecemeal.  “Derivatives have been used to game every aspect of our
tax system,” he said.  Today’s session is the second joint hearing of the two tax-
writing panels since 1940. The first, on treatment of debt and
equity, was held in July. The hearing is part of discussions on
a tax-code overhaul. Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp , a
Michigan Republican, wants to restructure the code to reduce the
corporate and individual rates to 25 percent without lowering
 tax collections .  Changing the Rules  Achieving that goal will require eliminating tax breaks or
changing underlying tax rules, such as the way derivatives are
taxed. The chairmen of the tax-writing committee didn’t commit
to a particular proposal in their opening statements.  Camp said at the hearing that he hoped to resolve some of
the murkiness surrounding financial instruments.  “Today’s marketplace features a wide array of products
that can result in different tax or financial accounting
treatment of economically similar products, including debt,
equity, mixtures of the two and financial derivatives,” he
said.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, said today that new financial instruments may lead to
“mischief.”  “They aren’t fair to taxpayers who can’t afford those
high-priced lawyers and accountants,” he said.  ‘Heading Someplace’  The hearing “means that they are heading someplace,” said
 Bruce Thompson , vice president at Van Scoyoc Associates Inc., a
Washington lobbying firm. “Now where they are, I’m not sure.”  Thompson, former senior director of global government
relations at Merrill Lynch & Co., said financial institutions
that benefit from the current tax system should be wary.  “Ten years ago, they were invulnerable in Washington,” he
said. “They’re not that way now. There’s obviously continued
anger at the industry. That certainly hasn’t gone away, and it’s
from both the left and the right.”  Several features of the U.S. revenue system make it
difficult to tax financial products. Those include the ability
to defer taxation using some financial instruments and the
preferential 15 percent rate for long-term capital gains, said
Viva Hammer, a former Treasury Department official who was
responsible for  tax policy  related to financial institutions and
products.  Tax Planning  “The ability to toggle in and out of capital treatment
allows tremendous flexibility in planning your taxes,” she
said.  Congress should require mark-to-market taxation of
derivatives at ordinary income tax rates, Hammer said.  “Everyone knows what the right answer is, but no one has
the courage to impose it,” she said.  Mark-to-market accounting is intended to require companies
to assign fair value to financial instruments and to limit the
benefits of deferring realization of gains.  Miller, one of the witnesses speaking at today’s hearing,
has proposed that large companies and wealthy individuals face a
 mark-to-market tax regime  on publicly traded securities and
derivatives.  Andrea Kramer, another witness at the hearing, questioned
the workability of a mark-to-market system, particularly for
assets that aren’t publicly traded or for which the value can’t
be easily determined.  “From an administrative and a policy standpoint, I
personally believe that it would be very difficult to impose an
mark to market system that would actually accomplish the reforms
we’re talking about,” said Kramer, a partner at  McDermott Will
& Emery  in  Chicago .  Swap Market  Raskolnikov said today that the tax system Camp is
contemplating -- with a lower corporate rate and lighter taxes
on income earned outside the U.S. -- would establish more
incentives to create financial products that take advantage of
those differences.  The global over-the-counter swaps market is $708 trillion,
according to the Basel-based Bank for International Settlements.
Derivatives, including swaps, are financial contracts tied to
 interest rates , currencies or events, such as a company default.  Ken Bentsen, the executive vice president for public policy
and advocacy at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, a trade group in Washington, said he welcomed the
committee’s discussion.  “These are very good information-gathering opportunities
for the members of the committee that will help them as they
hopefully ultimately move toward broad-based  tax reform ,” he
said.  Bentsen said he would caution lawmakers about the potential
unintended consequences of changes in the tax treatment of
financial products.  “They’re underpinnings of the economy that we have
today,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  