-- 
UN Should Consider Shifting Emissions Market, Shell’s Hone Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-12-06T12:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/un-should-consider-shifting-emissions-market-shell-s-hone-says.html
David Hone , climate adviser at  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and chairman of the International Emissions
Trading Association, speaks about the future of the Clean
Development Mechanism, the world’s biggest greenhouse gas
offsetting market.  He was speaking in interviews last month in London, ahead
of climate talks in Durban,  South Africa , through Dec. 9. He
said his comments were personal and did not necessarily reflect
the views of Shell or IETA, the Geneva-based lobby group.  On how the CDM’s legal structure might be shifted under the UN
Framework Convention on  Climate Change  from under the 1997 Kyoto
Protocol:  “The CDM needs to continue, even though there may be a
lack of agreement on the target issue. It needs to be a viable
mechanism that countries can use. The Durban meeting could move
the CDM out of Kyoto and underneath the convention. Then it
becomes a toolkit that is usable by the  Kyoto Protocol  but also
as a crediting mechanism for Nationally Appropriate Mitigation
Actions under the long-term co-operative action strand. If it
were me, that’s what I would do.”  The legal framework for making the transfer may not be easy
to put together, Hone said. It may not be easy to win support
from all nations for the transfer, he said.  “Moving it into the main game makes it a tool, for
example, that the emissions trading system in  California  could
consider using rather than going on to reinvent its own.”  On the future of the CDM after Kyoto targets expire next year:  “Both IETA and Shell want to see a resolution on the CDM
such that it has new life and neither want that to be dependent
on the whole resolution of Kyoto. IETA does not yet have a view
on exactly how this can happen but is currently looking at the
possible legal options available within the UNFCCC process to do
something. Shell has not formulated a view on exactly how a CDM
rescue could be implemented. But I stress that both want
something to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  