-- 
OTP Falls From Month-High as Banks Offer Taking More Losses

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-12-06T16:30:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/hungarian-forint-stocks-drop-after-s-p-europe-credit-warning.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, fell from a month-high after the country’s banks
proposed taking more losses on foreign-currency loans and a
review of euro area nations’ credit ratings hit European stocks.  OTP fell 3.5 percent to 3,270 forint by the end of trading
in Budapest. The stock rose 2.5 percent yesterday to the highest
close since Oct. 28. The BUX  index (BUX)  of shares, in which OTP has a
26 percent weighting, declined 2.1 percent to 17,372.45 by in
Budapest. The forint depreciated 0.4 percent to 300.86 per euro.  Hungarian banks are offering to book further losses of as
much as 500 billion forint ($2.2 billion) on foreign-currency
loans in the coming years in a proposal package submitted to the
government, Levente Kovacs, secretary general of the Bank
Association said today. The government is in talks with lenders
on further measures after allowing holders of foreign-currency
mortgages to repay their debt at below-market rates as a slump
in the forint increased their costs.  “It’s a big figure and given the lack of profits across
the banking sector it’s a commitment to take losses over a very
long period,” Attila Gyurcsik, a Budapest-based analyst at
Concorde Securities, said in a telephone interview on Kovacs’s
comments. “The banking system may be offering to take those
losses over 10 years or 20 years.”  Hungary , the European Union’s most-indebted eastern member,
last month lost its investment-grade credit ranking at Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited government measures hurting
banks’ profitability. Germany, France and four other nations may
lose their AAA credit ratings depending on the result of a
summit of European Union leaders on Dec. 9,  Standard & Poor’s 
said yesterday.  “Market sentiment today will more likely be influenced
negatively by Standard & Poor’s decision during last night of
placing 15 EMU countries on negative credit watch,” Kata
Baller, a Budapest-based economist at DZ Bank AG, wrote in a
research report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  