-- 
Municipal-Bond Defaults May Beat Record High in 2011, Richard Lehmann Says

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 
2011-12-06T20:59:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/municipal-bond-defaults-may-beat-record-high-in-2011-richard-lehmann-says.html
Municipal-bond defaults, including
bankruptcies and the use of reserve funds for payments, may set
a record this year as tobacco bonds and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s Chapter 11
filing push the total to more than double the previous mark,
said  Richard Lehmann , publisher of the Distressed Debt
Securities Newsletter.  Adding tobacco debt sold by states such as California and
Ohio as well as AMR-backed munis, the total will eclipse the
$8.62 billion high set in 2009, Lehmann said today. His
newsletter in  Miami Lakes , Florida, tracks defaults and uses a
broader measure than those applied by other municipal analysts.  “We’re going to hit $20 billion this year,” Lehmann said
today in a telephone interview. His tally wraps in everything
from bankruptcies to missed payments and using reserve funds to
service the debt. “These amounts will make 2011 the highest
default year by far,” he said.  Not all analysts put AMR and tobacco debt in their totals
for defaults in the $2.9 trillion market, because payments to
investors haven’t been officially missed, said Matt Fabian,
managing director of Municipal Market Advisors in Concord,
 Massachusetts . Fabian, who compiles payment defaults, said those
have reached $2.1 billion this year, down from about $2.8
billion in 2010.  Lehmann’s Inclusions  Lehmann added AMR, the parent of  American Airlines , to his
total after it sought  bankruptcy protection  last week. He is
adding Golden State tobacco bonds after California used reserve
funds to cover debt service this month. AMR backed $3.2 billion
of munis for airport facilities, bringing his total to $6
billion when added to $2.82 billion already included.  California and Ohio have acknowledged having to use reserve
funds to make Dec. 1 payments on debt backed by revenue from
legal settlements with  tobacco companies . California has at
least $7 billion of such debt and  Ohio  has $5.5 billion, Lehmann
said. He predicted other tobacco bonds may be added.  With cigarette sales on the decline and AMR in bankruptcy
in  New York , both sets of bonds could miss payments in the
future, Fabian said.  “The decline in smoking is happening at a much faster pace
than anyone expected,” Fabian said by telephone.  John Hallacy, head of municipal research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in New York, said he also wouldn’t count tobacco
debt as in default until payments are missed.  “Drawing on reserves isn’t an event of monetary default,”
Hallacy said by telephone. “But it is a prelude to one.”  Moody’s Investors Service in September cut the ratings on
$3.5 billion of tobacco bonds to junk because a projected annual
4 percent drop in cigarette sales will lower payments to states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  