-- 
United ‘Elite’ Fliers to Get Faster Airport Checks, TSA Says

-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 
2011-12-06T19:27:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/united-continental-frequent-fliers-to-see-eased-airport-security.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  will
join  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines next
year in being able to speed some of its most frequent fliers
through security at some airports, U.S. Transportation Security
Administrator  John Pistole  said.  The PreCheck participants -- who must be invited and agree
to provide information such as flight history to the government
-- often keep their shoes, belts and light coats on at
designated checkpoints, Pistole said in an interview today at
Bloomberg’s Washington bureau. Those fliers also can keep
laptops and liquids packed in carry-ons, he said.  Better information about travelers helps the TSA “to say
‘no, we don’t have to treat each person as a putative
terrorist,’” Pistole said.  More than 120,000 fliers have used PreCheck since the
program started Oct. 4, Pistole said. Airports in  Dallas , Miami,
 Detroit  and Atlanta have the checkpoints.  Las Vegas , Minneapolis
and Los Angeles airports are scheduled to have them in the next
few months.  United hasn’t determined at which airports the service will
be offered, Christen David, a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based
carrier, said by telephone. United is the world’s biggest
airline.  Military, Security Clearance  The company must integrate the technology systems that
United and Continental, which merged last year, use for
passenger services and reservations before it can implement
PreCheck, she said. Those systems are scheduled to be combined
in the first quarter.  “Elite tiers” of fliers from participating PreCheck
airlines are invited into the program, Pistole said without
specifying criteria for an invitation.  U.S. Customs  and Border
Protection’s so-called trusted travelers also can participate.  Pistole said he wants to provide speedy screening to
members of the military and travelers with government security
clearances. Agency officials are exploring how to include them
in a PreCheck-style program, he said.  Pistole also said he sees no technology “on the immediate
horizon” that would allow passengers to keep shoes on at
checkpoints. Machines to screen carry-ons for dangerous liquids,
such as bomb ingredients and acids, aren’t ready either, he
said.  The U.S. probably won’t be ready “from a technology
standpoint,” Pistole said, to let people carry liquids larger
than 3.4 ounces (100 milliliters) through checkpoints by April
29, 2013, a date set by the European Union as the expiration of
the restrictions.  Pat-Downs  Pistole denied reports over the last week that two elderly
women with medical devices were strip-searched at airports in
 New York  and  Fort Lauderdale , Florida.  “TSA does not strip-search people,” Pistole said. “We
did not strip-search anybody in this instance.”  The agency must work to better educate travelers about what
to expect in a pat-down and to allow enough time before flights,
Pistole said.  Pat-downs of older fliers who refuse to pass through whole-
body scanners or set off those machines’ alarms remain necessary
because “terrorists are willing to exploit societal norms,” he
said.  The TSA in September began a new screening procedure for
children 12 and under that results in fewer pat-downs and allows
them to keep their shoes on in most cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  