-- 
Veolia Exits Mass Transit With $6.7 Billion of Asset Sales to Reduce Debt

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-12-06T14:27:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/veolia-to-sell-transport-u-k-u-s-assets-in-bid-to-trim-debt.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the world’s
biggest water utility, will sell 5 billion euros ($6.7 billion)
of assets to cut debt as it exits the mass-transit business to
focus on water, waste and energy services.  Veolia, which is outlining a turnaround plan at an investor
day, will sell regulated water assets in the U.K., solid waste
operations in the U.S., and quit the Transdev transport
business. It also proposed a lower dividend.  The asset sales are “going to drive a profound
transformation of our company,” Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot said. “I am giving myself two years to carry it out.”  Veolia’s credit outlook was lowered by  Fitch Ratings  last
month after the utility twice cut profit forecasts. Fitch said a
“softer” economy could hurt the waste division, risking a
repeat of the slump in demand Veolia saw in 2009 when carmakers
and steel producers shut factories to weather the recession.  “The plan will reassure to some extent but the market
wants to see proof that it will be carried out,” said Chicuang
Dang, an analyst at KBL Richelieu in Paris. “The road will be a
long one because the effects of cost-cutting and asset sales
won’t be felt right away. This was Veolia’s last chance.”  Veolia rose as much as 4.5 percent in Paris trading before
giving up gains and trading down 0.7 percent at 9.455 euros as
of 2:59 p.m. local time. The shares have slumped 57 percent in
the year to date.  Shrink Footprint  The asset sales are “higher than the anticipated” 3
billion euros, said Julien Desmaretz, a Paris-based analyst at
Bryan, Gernier & Co.  Veolia will shrink its “geographic footprint” to about 40
countries from 77 in a bid to lower debt to less than 12 billion
euros by the end of 2013. Net financial debt was 15 billion
euros at the end of September.  Veolia said it plans to focus on central and Eastern
Europe, China, France, waste operations in the U.K. and energy
services in the U.S.  The utility proposed cutting the dividend to 70 euro cents
a share in 2012 and 2013, compared with 1.21 euros for 2010.  It raised cost-cutting targets and confirmed that adjusted
operating income will “decline” from last year.  “The amount of this reduction may be similar to that
reported for the nine months ending September, 2011,” the
company said.  Cost Cuts  The net effect of cost-cutting on operating income will be
20 million euros next year, 120 million euros in 2013, 220
million euros in 2014 and 420 million euros in 2015, Veolia said
in a presentation.  Veolia supplies water to more than 100 million people and
handles about 63 million tons of waste.  Transdev was created after Veolia and French state-owned
bank Caisse des Depots et Consignations agreed to merge their
transport units last year.  “We will look for new shareholders for our transport
business,” Frerot said, since Transdev would have competed for
investment “with other activities that we think are more
important for the future.”  The French water business faces the prospect of lower
profitability and the threat of municipalities taking over water
treatment operations, Veolia said, while the waste business is
increasingly exposed to the industrial output.  The company lost half its market value, and the cost of
insuring it against default reached a record, after saying in
July that it wouldn’t meet an earnings target.  The restructuring marks the end of the global expansion
started by Frerot’s predecessor  Henri Proglio , who became
chairman and CEO of Electricite de France SA in 2009 while
remaining chairman of Veolia until last December. Proglio spent
about 4 billion euros on acquisitions in 2007 and 2008, pushing
the utility’s operations into 77 countries from  Argentina  to
 South Korea .  “We are preparing the company for difficult times,”
Frerot said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  