-- 
Verizon Could Gain ‘Missing Piece’ for Web Video With Redbox

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-12-08T21:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/verizon-may-ignite-online-pay-tv-competition-with-web-offering.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s talks
to combine with movie-rental kiosk operator Redbox for an
online-video service could lead to the phone company gaining
expertise needed to start a business rivaling  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company, has been
meeting with Redbox, a unit of  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) , in an effort to
work out a content-distribution plan, according to a person
familiar with the talks. The carrier has also met with other
potential video partners and final details for any arrangement
haven’t been determined, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the talks aren’t public.  Phone companies and pay-TV providers are seeking ways to
enter the online-video market dominated by Netflix and Hulu LLC
as consumers increasingly watch movies and TV shows over the
Internet. A combination with Redbox, known for its DVD-rental
vending machines, would provide New York-based Verizon with
knowledge about working with content providers and a brand
consumers associate with movie distribution.  “There’s a missing piece that they are looking for,” said
Sam Greenholtz, an analyst with Telecom Pragmatics in
Westminster,  Maryland . “They need the expertise that goes with
this business, like how to make it run and what to charge.”  Marci Maule, a spokeswoman for Bellevue, Washington-based
Coinstar, declined to comment.  “Verizon talks to a lot of companies,” Deidre Hart, a
Verizon spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “There are no definitive
agreements to discuss with anyone at this time.”  Part of Strategy  Coinstar rose 7.8 percent to $47.45 at the close in New
York, the biggest gain in more than a year. The stock has lost
16 percent this year. Verizon declined 1.3 percent to $37.81.  “I would definitely see it as a positive” for Redbox, said
Eric Wold, a B Riley & Co. analyst in  San Francisco . “It could
create a fairly attractive combination plan for consumers.”  Yesterday, Verizon Chief Executive Officer Lowell McAdam
said online video will be part of the company’s strategy as it
seeks to expand distribution. He also said the company had
looked at Hulu when its owners sought buyers for the business.  “Hulu is out and they’ve moved on to Redbox,” said
Greenholtz, a former Verizon employee who has consulted for the
company, and who was briefed by Verizon about the video plans.
“Everything is on the table and nothing has been nailed down.”  Verizon is interested in Internet Protocol TV technology,
or IPTV, to compete with Netflix and cable companies such as
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ,  Tony Wible , an analyst
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, said this week.  ‘Recognized Name’  Streaming video to televisions, computers and portable
devices is a market that has attracted other technology
companies, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   Yesterday, TechCrunch reported that Verizon and Redbox plan
to start a joint service on May 28. The service will be credit-
based and include several tiers, some of which include rentals
of physical discs, TechCrunch said.  Verizon has “some of the key pieces,” Greenholtz said. With
on-demand movies and TV shows for its FiOS service and an
extensive landline network, “you can see where it’s not much of
a stretch to get this stuff on a wireless signal also,” he said.  What’s missing, Greenholtz said, is more video-distribution
knowhow.  “They need a recognized name, the Hollywood knowledge and
the talent,” he said. “That’s something they think Hulu or
Redbox would give them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  