-- 
Vietnam Risks Stability If Policy Eased: IMF

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-06T06:04:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/vietnam-risks-stability-if-policy-eased-imf.html
Vietnam  may undermine progress toward
economic stability if it loosens monetary policy now, the
 International Monetary Fund  and World Bank said as the nation
struggles with the fastest inflation in  Asia .  “The authorities need to move rapidly and decisively to
ensure financial sector soundness while re-establishing
macroeconomic stability,” Sanjay Kalra, the IMF’s resident
representative in Vietnam, said in comments prepared for a
conference in Hanoi today. “Failure to do so, or even loosening
policies now, would jeopardize the gains already made.”  Vietnam faces an  inflation rate  close to 20 percent, a
trade deficit, slowing economic growth and risks in the banking
sector. The government said today gross domestic product may
climb about 6 percent this year, lower than 6.8 percent in 2010,
and Kalra said a transparent framework for recapitalization and
consolidation in the financial sector is “urgently needed.”  Officials should consider raising interest rates again to
support the nation’s currency if necessary, and while Vietnam’s
foreign-exchange reserves rose in the summer, they “have
declined again in an effort to contain renewed pressures on the
 exchange rate ,” Kalra said.  The dong was little changed at 21,009 per dollar as of
12:02 p.m. local time and has fallen about 7.2 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX) 
of stocks fell 0.3 percent, and is down 19 percent this year.  Dong Depreciation  Asian stocks and currencies have retreated in 2011 and the
region’s policy makers have shifted their focus to shielding
growth as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a struggling U.S.
economy increase the risk of another global recession.  Dong depreciation is linked to weaker domestic confidence
and the  State Bank  of Vietnam intervened in the foreign-exchange
market in October, the World Bank said in a separate report
today. Foreign reserves covered two months of imports in July,
it said.  Vietnam’s economic stability is “fragile and premature
loosening of policies will risk repeating the recent pattern of
recurring instability,” the lender said.  The IMF and  World Bank  reports were released for the
meeting of the Consultative Group on Vietnam, which has convened
annually since 1993 to help the nation’s transition to a market-
based economy.  The State Bank of Vietnam raised its refinancing rate in
October to 15 percent from 14 percent. Its repurchase rate was
last changed in July, when the central bank lowered it to 14
percent from 15 percent.  Inflation Challenge  The nation’s inflation rate eased for the third straight
month to 19.83 percent in November. It remains the fastest in a
basket of 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflation is expected to slow to about 9 percent in 2012
and is under control, Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung told the
Consultative Group. The government will continue to implement
the Resolution 11 strategy, he said. Resolution 11, approved in
February, aimed to tighten fiscal and monetary policies.  Dung said Vietnam will aim for 6 percent GDP growth in 2012.
That’s the lower end of a target of 6 percent to 6.5 percent
approved by the National Assembly in November.  At the same time, Vu Duc Dam, chairman of the Government
Office, said on Dec. 1 that the government has asked the State
Bank of Vietnam to consider lowering  interest rates .  The IMF said “repeated calls for lower lending rates cast
doubt on the government’s resolve to sustain tight policies.”  The banking sector is showing signs of stress and asset
quality remains a “concern” given “unusually high” credit growth
in recent years, the World Bank said. Lenders are reporting
liquidity shortages, it said.  Banks to Merge  Vietnam’s First Commercial Joint-Stock Bank, Tin Nghia
Commercial Joint-Stock Bank and Saigon Commercial Joint-Stock
Bank will merge, the central bank said in a statement posted on
its website today. Last month, it unveiled plans to create a
three-tiered financial industry dominated by 15 lenders as part
of efforts to allay concerns over the banking system.  “It’s clear that Vietnam needs to modernize and strengthen
its banking and financial sector, and for that, it needs to open
it to the world,” said Jean-Jacques Bouflet, head of trade and
economic affairs at the European Union delegation to Vietnam.  Vietnam’s trade deficit may be $10 billion in 2011, the
government said in its report for today’s conference. The
Consultative Group brings together the administration and
nations and agencies that provide grants and low-interest loans.  Vietnam’s  economy , a production hub for companies from
 Intel Corp . to Honda Motor Co., may expand by 5 percent or less
next year, estimates from U.K.-based Capital Economics Ltd. show.
That would be the slowest pace since 1999.  --Jason Folkmanis and Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. Editors: Sunil Jagtiani, K. Oanh Ha  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Hanoi at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net  or
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  