-- 
Voluntary Evacuees Around Fukushima Plant May Be Compensated

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-12-06T09:11:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/voluntary-evacuees-around-fukushima-plant-may-be-compensated-1-.html
Residents who voluntarily evacuated
from areas around  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s wrecked Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear station should be compensated, a government
panel said in draft guidelines.  The compensation guidelines, released at a public meeting
of the committee in Tokyo today, didn’t specify the locations.
Voluntary evacuees, including those who lived outside Fukushima
prefecture, were estimated at 50,327 as of Sept. 22, according
to a separate report by the panel, headed by Yoshihisa Noumi, a
professor of law at Gakushuin University.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami disabled power and
cooling systems at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station, leading to
three meltdowns and radiation release, the worst since Chernobyl.
The utility known as Tepco may have to pay 4.5 trillion yen
($57.9 billion) in compensation to those affected by the
disaster, which displaced 160,000 people, by March 2013, said a
government panel headed by lawyer Kazuhiko Shimokobe in October.  Tepco has said it plans to compensate those affected by the
disaster based on interim guidelines drawn up by the committee
headed by Noumi. Voluntary evacuation wasn’t covered under
initial guidelines released on Aug. 5 by his panel.  Residents said in September the compensation process is
“outrageous” after receiving from Tepco a 56-page form that
needs to be filled up and a 156-page explanatory booklet.  Tepco has paid 5.7 billion yen in compensation to settle
about 2,500 claims from individuals out of 23,800 claims
received by the utility, Jun Oshima, a Tokyo-based spokesman,
said by phone today. The utility has paid out a total of 138.7
billion yen in provisional compensation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 