-- 
Wal-Mart de Mexico Same-Store Sales Jump Most Since 2006

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-12-07T00:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/wal-mart-de-mexico-november-same-store-sales-jump-most-since-december-2006.html
Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB (WALMEXV) , Latin
America’s biggest retailer, said Mexican same-store sales surged
the most in five years after the nation hosted four days of
holiday discounts meant to emulate Black Friday in the U.S.  Sales at stores open 12 months or more jumped 12.6 percent
in November from the same period last year, the biggest advance
since December 2006, according to data compiled by the company.
Same-store sales in Central America dropped 0.3 percent, Wal-
Mart de Mexico said today in a statement to the nation’s stock
exchange. Total sales for Mexico and Central America were 35
billion pesos ($2.6 billion), a 21 percent increase.  Wal-Mart de Mexico lured more shoppers in November as
Mexicans took advantage of a government-sponsored initiative to
offer discounts over a four-day period last month around a
holiday weekend. President Felipe Calderon backed the plan,
offering to pay year-end bonuses early to government workers.  “We got prepared well ahead of time to offer a high volume
of products at a very good prices,” said Antonio Ocaranza, a
Wal-Mart de  Mexico  spokesman, wrote in an e-mailed statement.
“Even with November results we should wait for December to
evaluate the entire season."  During the special promotions weekend called ‘‘Buen Fin’’,
which ran from Nov. 18 to Nov. 21, Mexican stores touted
discounts of as much as 30 percent on merchandise and banks
waived interest charges on credit cards.  Mexico’s economy is expected to expand 3.7 percent this
year, according to the median estimate of 13 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net  