-- 
Knockoff ‘We-Vibe’ Sex Toys Sparks Walgreen Trade Apeal by Ottawa Firm

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-12-06T17:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/walgreen-s-drugstore-com-accused-of-selling-knockoff-sex-toys.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) ’s Drugstore.com was
named in a U.S. trade agency complaint by a Canadian company
that said it’s seeking to halt imports of knockoff sex toys.  Standard Innovation Corp., based in Ottawa, filed a
complaint Dec. 2 with the U.S. International Trade Commission in
 Washington , seeking an order that would halt competitors from
shipping the rival products into the U.S.  The dispute centers on competitors to the We-Vibe,
described by Standard Innovation as a “couple device” worn by
women during sex and presented in gift bags at the 2009 and 2010
Oscars, and the 2010 Superbowl. The company said it has sold
more than 1 million of the devices, including about 400,000 in
the U.S.  The competing products, several of which are sold on
Bellevue, Washington-based Drugstore.com, are infringing two
patents, including one for the design of the device, according
to the complaint.  Among the companies named in the complaint were four
manufacturers, four distributors and 11 retailers. Standard
Innovation also filed a civil suit against one of the
manufacturers, Leloi AB of  Sweden , in federal court in Houston.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency that has the power to
block imports of products that violate U.S. patent rights. If it
agrees to investigate the complaint, it typically completes its
work in 16 to 19 months.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Kinesiotherapy Devices,
Complaint No.  2862 , U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington). The civil suit is Standard Innovation Corp. v.
Leloi AB, 22cv4172, U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  