-- 
Weather Extremes Causing More Variable USDA Data, Analysts Say

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-12-06T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/weather-extremes-causing-more-variable-usda-data-analysts-say.html
Rain-delayed planting and hot, dry
growing weather in the U.S. Midwest resulted in the government
reducing its corn-crop estimates in 2010 and 2011 by the most
for any two-year period since 1984.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s final  production 
estimate last year was down 7.4 percent from its initial
forecast in August, and this year the drop was 4.7 percent.
Output was overstated by 25.5 percent in August 1983 and 0.2
percent a year later, USDA data show, after a period of adverse
weather. In 2004 and 2005, the department understated the size
of the crops by an average of 7.2 percent each year, as cool
conditions and ample rains resulted in higher yields.  “The forecasts have had a margin for error much larger
over the past few years, but that’s a reflection of the adverse
weather,” Peter Meyer, the publisher of OpeningPrint LLC and a
former agricultural specialist for JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in
a telephone interview. In each of the past two years, Meyer
accurately forecast smaller crops in August than the government
predicted.  This year, the USDA has cut its forecast four times in as
many months, leading critics such as Darrel Good, a  University
of Illinois  agricultural economist, to question the reliability
of the government estimates. The price variability of corn
futures in  Chicago  is about seven times higher on days the USDA
released crop-production reports than for other trading
sessions, Good said in a report earlier this year.  Biggest Variation  The biggest two-year variation between the USDA’s initial
forecasts and final crop estimates occurred in the early 90s. In
1993, flooding left final production 17.1 percent below the
August projection, and in 1994, cool, wet weather resulted in an
8.3 percent increase, USDA data show.  USDA crop-production estimates are made each month from
August through January with the exception of December. The
USDA’s  National Agricultural Statistics Service  surveys 11,000
to 27,000 farmers for each report, according to Joe Prusacki,
the director of statistics at the agency. For most reports, two
samples are also taken from about 1,900 fields.  “The USDA has an impossible task every year, and the last
few years, the variability increased because of the weather
problems,”  Dale Durchholz , the senior market analyst for
AgriVisor LLC in Bloomington,  Illinois , said in a telephone
interview. “People have to remember that the reports are just a
sample of the total, and they have to anticipate there will be
sampling errors based on weather conditions.”  Volatile Futures  In June, at the start of the hottest Midwest summer in 50
years, corn futures for July delivery touched a record $7.9975 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. The grain tumbled 17
during that month as the government said U.S. farmers planted
1.8 percent more than analysts were expecting, and  stockpiles  as
of June 1 were 12 percent higher.  Estimating grain inventories has become more difficult as
corn producers increased on-farm storage and ethanol output rose
to a record last year, boosting the use of ried distillers
grain, a byproduct of biofuel production, in livestock feed,
said Tim Emslie, the research manager for Country Hedging Inc.
in Inver Grove Heights,  Minnesota .  As of Dec. 1, 2010, farmers increased storage capacity for
corn and other grain crops by 10 percent to 12.515 billion
bushels since 2005, according to the USDA. U.S. ethanol
production consumed a record 5.021 billion bushels of corn in
the marketing year that ended Aug. 31, the first time more of
the grain was used to produce fuel than to feed livestock and
poultry, department data show  “The methodology may be the best they can do statistically
over the long run, but actual physical conditions from year to
year are going to drive how big the error is every year,”
Emslie said. The USDA’s quarterly grain inventories “report is
happening against a major logistical shift,” that is causing
larger errors because of crop losses, increased farmer storage
and rising ethanol production, Emslie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  