-- 
Why More Retail Jobs Won’t Fix U.S. Unemployment: Edward Glaeser

-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 
2011-12-06T00:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/why-more-retail-jobs-won-t-fix-unemployment-commentary-by-edward-glaeser.html
Last week’s jobs report delivered
some good news: The  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.6 percent
from 9 percent, and the decline was particularly notable among
less educated Americans.  Trouble is, more than 40 percent of the job growth was
attributable to a healthy expansion in  retail trade , which
underscores a larger economic problem. Although entrepreneurial
innovation usually leads to significant job creation, the great
retail entrepreneurs of the past 30 years -- from  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  to Wal-Mart Stores Inc. -- have produced efficiency rather
than economywide employment.  Forty years ago, two jokers put up a  billboard  “Will the
last person leaving SEATTLE -- Turn out the lights.” Boeing
Co., the region’s industrial giant, had been cutting jobs, and
the city seemed about to become a Pacific outpost of the Rust
Belt. But  Seattle  didn’t go the way of Detroit, largely because
of a string of remarkable entrepreneurs, who gave us, among
other things, Amazon,  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
and Starbucks Corp. Today, the city is a success story, with  per
capita personal income  of more than $50,000 -- more than 20
percent above the national average -- and an  unemployment rate 
below the national average.  As I discussed in a recent  City Journal article ,  Seattle ’s
success builds on a potent cocktail of education and
entrepreneurship that provides a model for American rebirth.
More than 54 percent of Seattle’s adults have college degrees,
about double the national average. The city’s skill base seems
to have been part of its attraction for both Microsoft’s  Bill Gates  (a native son) and Amazon’s  Jeff Bezos  (a transplant).  Starbucks Model  Even  Starbucks (SBUX) , which was founded by an English teacher, a
history teacher and a writer, owes its existence to Seattle’s
overeducated population. In the era when the high-end coffee
chain was created, working-class guys were perfectly happy
chugging down Chock full o’Nuts.  All four of these Seattle-based companies are models of
U.S. entrepreneurship. They have helped shape modern American
life, and their products sell around the globe. Yet Amazon and
Costco may well have led to fewer, not more, jobs in the U.S.  Piecing together the full employment effects of any
particular company is close to impossible. Even the seemingly
simple task of estimating the impact of a new Wal-Mart store on
local retail employment is terribly tricky. One  study  found that
each  Wal-Mart (WMT)  increases retail employment by 50 jobs. Another    
paper  makes the competing argument that the giant retailer puts
stores in areas that are growing naturally, and that better
statistical techniques show that each new Wal-Mart decreases
county level retail employment by 150 workers. The economywide
impact of Amazon is far harder to determine because it has
buyers and sellers everywhere.  But it isn’t hard to spot the larger trend in retail trade
job creation. The attached figure shows the time path of job-
creation rates for the economy as a whole and for retail trade
in particular. The data comes from the  Census Bureau’s Business
Dynamics Database , which defines the  job-creation  rate as the
employment growth at the establishment level divided by the
average of old and new employment.  The lower line shows the job-creation rate for the economy
as a whole, which dropped from about 20 percent in the late
1970s to 12 percent today. On average, the job-creation rate has
declined by 1.4 percent per decade, which should scare anyone
worried about our continuing ability to generate employment. The
U.S. hasn’t been producing fewer jobs than it used to, at least
until the recent recession, but the number of jobs created
hasn’t increased with the overall size of the economy.  Service Economy  The top line shows the far steeper decline for retail
trade. The 1970s and 1980s were a great growth period for this
sector, as the U.S. moved from manufacturing to a service
economy. When the economy roared back after the 1982 recession,
the job-creation rate in retail trade boomed at more than 20
percent per year for each year from 1984 to 1988. The job-
creation rate in retail has never again broken 20 percent, and
the downward trend runs at 2.6 percentage points per decade.  I wouldn’t want to blame Amazon or Costco for this trend,
and I am a big fan of both retailers. There is a lot to like
about low prices and shopping over the Internet. But it
shouldn’t surprise us that tremendous improvements in retail
efficiency have been associated with diminished job growth in
the e-tail sector.  Free markets have many virtues, and I have no sympathy for
those who want to preserve old retail jobs by banning
innovation. Preventing Wal-Mart from entering an urban
neighborhood may protect a few local stores, but it is the poor
who suffer most when they have to pay unduly high prices. The
current crisis in the Mediterranean countries reminds us that
governments that try to preserve old jobs by stifling new
business models eventually produce stagnation and decay.  Our best hope is that private entrepreneurs will figure out
ways to employ more Americans. The current 13.2 percent
 unemployment rate  for workers without high school degrees
represents a failure of entrepreneurial imagination. Every out-
of-work American provides an opportunity for some businessperson
to figure out how to turn that person’s wasted time into
economic profit.  The entrepreneurs who created Starbucks, especially Chief
Executive Officer  Howard Schultz , figured out how to solve that
problem. The company employs 149,000 people in its labor-
intensive caffeine-delivery system. Its success as an employer
represents a combination of product and process -- delivering
what consumers want in a way that employs tens of thousands of
baristas worldwide.  What will it take for the U.S. to produce the entrepreneurs
who will create jobs for the millions who are still unemployed?
The government can act in three areas: regulation, taxation and
education.  Regulatory Barriers  Because budding entrepreneurs typically don’t earn much at
first, regulations can be the biggest barrier facing startups.
Some of these rules are national, but many more are local.  All should be re-examined.  Detroit  should be welcoming
every new entrepreneur it can get, but the city’s rules make it
hard to open even a  food truck . The national government at least
has embraced the principle of applying cost-benefit analysis to
executive branch regulations, but state and local governments
lack the resources to properly evaluate their rules.  The federal government could help by setting up an
independent assessment agency, modeled on the  Congressional
Budget Office , that offers cost-benefit analysis to lower levels
of government to help identify and prune unnecessary
regulations.  We also want to make sure that our  tax code  doesn’t
discourage companies from hiring new workers. I support the
continuation of the  payroll tax cut  and the expansion of the
earned income tax credit.  Finally, it makes sense to couple support for education
with the development of entrepreneurship and knowledge that
applies in the job market. We can provide more aid for adult
education, as long as that aid is made contingent upon the
acquisition of useful skills.  Despite the most recent numbers, the U.S. continues to have
an employment problem. The main reason the unemployment rate
dropped last week is that hundreds of thousands of people left
the  labor force . Entrepreneurship provides the best path to a
healthier economy, and the government’s role in supporting
entrepreneurs is to help train smart people, then get out of
their way.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 