-- 
Xstrata Sees Commodities Rising as Euro Crisis Wanes

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-12-06T18:43:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/xstrata-sees-commodity-demand-costs-rising-as-euro-crisis-wanes.html
(Corrects fourth paragraph to describe dividend policy as
“progressive.”)  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s largest
exporter of coal used in power stations, expects commodity
prices to rise as  Europe  resolves its sovereign debt crisis.  “When we get out of this uncertainty that Europe and the
rest of the world is causing us we’ll see some significant price
improvements,” Peter Freyberg, head of Xstrata’s coal division,
told reporters in London today. “India and  China  continue to
grow. We remain, in the six-month period, positive.”  Demand for commodities such as coking coal the company digs
at  Australia ’s Oaky Creek is high in China, Freyberg said.
“We’re seeing steel demand going down, prices in China
dropping, but there’s still good demand for quality products and
prices historically are still high, well over $200 a ton.”  The company is seeking to deliver “significant cost
reduction across its output,” Chief Executive Officer Mick
Davis said in a briefing at Investor Day in London today.
Xstrata will continue its “progressive dividend policy,” Davis
said. “We had a significant adjustment in dividend to get back
to pre-2008 level, and we’ll continue with that policy.”  The company isn’t happy with this year’s performance at
Collahuasi, its Chilean joint venture with  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,
he said. “Collahuasi hasn’t been a great deliverer this year.
It’s been a disappointing exercise.”  The company, planning $19.5 billion in spending from next
year to raise output 50 percent by the end of 2014, sees demand
for coal and copper above supply after delays in new projects.  Chinese Demand  Chinese demand for copper and lack of new production gives
Xstrata “confidence in delivering new metal into the market in
the next three to four years,” said  Charlie Sartain , Xstrata’s
head of the metal. “You can’t just turn on copper supply.”  Xstrata, based in Zug,  Switzerland , sees demand from China
rising in February after falling for the lunar new year holiday.  “The unusual thing this year is that the New Year is quite
early,” said Thras Moraitis, head of group strategy and
corporate affairs. “The first couple of months of the year tend
to be very strong. What we’ll see this year is a slight delay in
that until the new year is over in January and then we’ll have a
strong February.”  Xstrata will seek “opportunistic acquisitions” to aid its
growth, he said. “We are looking for acquisitions that could be
bolted to our existing portfolio in a way we can create a unique
value. But we are primarily focused on organic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  