-- 
Yale’s Burned Baboons, Harvard’s Dead Goat Make Ivy League Lab Abuse List

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-12-06T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/yale-s-burned-baboons-harvard-s-dead-goat-make-ivy-league-lab-abuse-list.html
Cows at the  University of
Pennsylvania  had to stand in their own feces while eating in a
barn.  At  Harvard University , a primate died in its cage after
going through a mechanical washer, and a goat succumbed to an
overdose of anesthesia.  Baboons at Yale suffered burns and blisters after an
experiment.  Because Ivy League schools get substantial funding from the
 National Institutes of Health  for research, Dr. John Pippin
focused on them when he started looking into the abuse of
laboratory animals.  “The University of Pennsylvania with its number of
violations has demonstrated an utter disregard for the Animal
Welfare Act,” said Pippin, the director of academic affairs for
the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine and a trained
cardiologist.  His committee found that  Dartmouth College , Cornell, Brown
and Columbia also on some occasions hadn’t complied with the
animal-rights law. Pippin ranked the eight prestigious
institutions of the Ivy League based on violations.  Pennsylvania  had the worst record, followed by Princeton
and Yale  (a tie), Harvard, Cornell, Brown, Dartmouth and
Columbia.  The abuses sparked concern and outrage by animal-welfare
advocates.  Stop Animal Exploitation Now! , a Milford, Ohio-based
nonprofit, started a television ad campaign last month in the
Princeton area. The 30-second spot shows photos of caged and
severely restrained primates in lab settings. At the end, it
lists the office number of Princeton President Shirley Tilghman
and encourages the public to complain.  ‘Minimal Standards’  “Princeton should stop using primates because they can’t
even follow the minimal standards that are part of the Animal
Welfare Act,” said Michael Budkie, who founded SAEN in 1996, by
phone.  Under the 45-year-old Animal Welfare Act, the Department of
Agriculture monitors research labs at about 1,100 universities
in the U.S. to ensure that they are providing ethical and humane
care of warm-blooded animals.  Dave Sacks, a spokesman for the USDA’s  Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service , said the unit makes unannounced
visits to university research labs about once a year. The
institutions are then notified if they aren’t complying with the
law.  “It’s a snapshot of how the schools are treating their
animals on a given day and how they’re following federal
regulations,” Sacks said by phone. “We don’t rank
universities, but we take every noncompliance citation
seriously.”  No Answers  The rankings by Dr. Pippin’s committee are based on such
inspections. The University of Pennsylvania, which has thousands
of animals at its medical-school and research facilities, had 11
“severe violations” and 17 repeat offenses between 2008 and
2011, Pippin said.  “We sent copies of our reports to the universities, and
only three out of the eight  Ivy League  schools answered,”
Pippin said.  Since his committee published the report on its website
this autumn, some of the universities responded to inquiries
from Bloomberg News with statements saying that they recognize
the Animal Welfare Act’s standards and have tried to correct
noncompliance issues.  Harvard Medical School  said in an e-mailed statement that
it’s committed to the “ethical treatment of animals used in
research” and recognizes that it’s “incumbent upon us to
continuously strive to improve our program.”  The University of Pennsylvania said it takes all reports of
“deficiencies very seriously and with each reported incident,”
it modifies its programs “to do whatever is necessary to
eliminate these deficiencies.”  Not Enough Water  At Princeton, lab primates weren’t getting enough water
this year and in 2010, according to USDA inspections records.
The university received another warning in June about its
failure to comply with federal rules, which include “daily
observation of animals” to assess their well-being.  Princeton spokesman Martin Mbugua said in a statement that
a “miscommunication” caused the primates to go without water
for more than 24 hours.  “Measures to avoid such miscommunication were promptly put
in place and were in effect by the following weekend,” Mbugua
wrote in the e-mail.  Pippin said instead of using animals, universities should
conduct human-based research with people who have the diseases
being studied.  “That’s the only way to end this animal abuse,” he said.
“The system isn’t working.”  Doug Levy, a spokesman for Columbia University’s Medical
Center, said use of animals is a “necessity if we are going to
continue to do research” and produce cures.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 