-- 
Yara Views Latin America, Africa for Short-Term Expansion Plans

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-12-06T13:52:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/yara-views-latin-america-africa-for-short-term-expansion-plans.html
Yara International ASA (YAR) , the world’s
largest publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker, is looking
toward  Latin America  and Africa for immediate growth
opportunities amid high asset prices in  North America  and
 Europe , Chief Executive Officer Joergen Ole Haslestad said.  The company, based in the Norwegian capital, is talking to
companies in sub-saharan Africa, where it has a competitive
advantage over peers, to form joint ventures or make
acquisitions, the executive said. With joint ventures, Yara
would target ownership of at least 50 percent to have control,
he said.  Yara is already active in Africa, delivering several
hundred thousands of tons of fertilizer into the region, where
U.S. competitors have so far made few inroads, he said. Africa
is probably the only area where you can find "cheap gas
pockets,’’ needed to make nitrogen fertilizer, Haslestad said in
an interview in Oslo today, after hosting a capital markets day.  “You have countries like Tanzania,  Angola , Ghana and they
all have been out saying we do have gas and we would like to
exploit it,” said the CEO. “That would not mean that it would
give us at a better price, but at least we will be the once they
will come to,” according to the CEO.  The company is also looking at Latin America, a high-growth
region where Yara can leverage its broad presence, and where
market opportunities for value-added fertilizer are
“significant,” the company said today.  Brazil  is the “most
relevant” market, according to the CEO.  Burrup  In  Australia , Yara’s pre-emptive rights to gain control of
the Burrup ammonia plant represent a further growth opportunity,
the company said. Yara owns 35 percent of Burrup Fertilisers’
parent, Burrup Holdings Ltd. and has the right to match any
offers. Yara is however not in control of the current sales
process and has seen “very little movement” over the last
month, the CEO said.  The Australian ammonia producer is under receivership.  “We hope that we will see some changes in the next weeks
and couple of months to come,” the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  