-- 
Zapatero Hopes French-German EU Plan Will Calm Markets

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-12-06T12:37:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-06/zapatero-hopes-french-german-eu-plan-will-calm-markets-1-.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  said he hopes the French-German plan for
tighter European economic cooperation will calm financial
markets and help the economic recovery.  “Yesterday’s accord must be followed up, evaluated and
debated by European Union leaders,” Zapatero told reporters in
Madrid today. “I hope markets will react positively and we can
expect a quieter period as is necessary for the economic
recovery,” he said.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy yesterday pushed for a rewrite of the EU’s
governing treaties to tighten economic cooperation as a first
step toward ending the debt crisis. They agreed on a joint
position on automatic penalties for deficit violators and
anchoring debt limits into euro states’ constitutions.  “We are in favor of reforming EU treaties as will surely
be discussed” at a summit of European leaders on Dec. 9, said
 Mariano Rajoy , leader of the People’s Party and Prime Minister-
elect. “We are convinced the reform will be decided and
implemented as quickly as possible.”  Spain ’s ruling Socialists are due to hand over power on
Dec. 21 to Rajoy’s PP after an election last month. Rajoy and
Zapatero said today that they have agreed on a common position
for Spain before the EU summit.  “Spain will say it is a country which can be counted on
and that there is no question of it giving up on its commitment
to cut public deficit and debt,” said Rajoy, who is to meet
with Merkel at a European party meeting on Dec. 8 in Marseille,
 France .  Rajoy will also meet with Sarkozy and European Commission
President Jose Manuel Barroso that day, and U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  on Dec. 7, said a spokeswoman for the
PP who declined to be named in line with party policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  