-- ‘Industrial Terrorism’ of Undercover Livestock Videos Targeted
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-02-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/-industrial-terrorism-of-undercover-livestock-videos-targeted.html
Undercover investigations of animal
abuse and unsanitary farm conditions would be outlawed in eight
states, including Iowa and  New York , under an expanding effort
by legislators who say the exposes malign livestock industries.  Montana,  North Dakota  and Kansas have already passed “ag
gag” laws to thwart whistle-blowers, who have targeted  Tyson
Foods Inc. (TSN) ,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and  Yum! Brands Inc.’s (YUM)  KFC chicken
suppliers. Iowa and New York are debating similar legislation,
as is  Minnesota ,  Illinois ,  Indiana ,  Missouri , Nebraska and Utah.  Measures in those states, backed by  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and other
agriculture companies, would halt activists from using deceptive
practices to target producers in the $74 billion-a-year U.S.
beef industry, or the $45 billion poultry business, as well as
other businesses. Animal-rights groups such as the  Humane
Society  of the  United States  contend  food safety  will be
compromised if abusive and unsanitary practices go unexposed.  “For politicians, it comes across looking like they’re
trying to muzzle these groups,” said  Wes Jamison , an associate
communications professor at Palm Beach Atlantic University in
 Florida  who studies interest-group activism, in an interview.
“It’s putting restrictions on citizen ‘gotcha’ journalism.”  Media stories about animal welfare have a “significant,
negative” effect on meat demand, especially poultry and pork,
according to a 2010  study  by economists at Kansas State
University and Purdue University in Indiana on covert exposes
and news articles.  Watchdog Groups  Efforts by companies such as  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  to
demand that farmers raise pigs outside or in large enclosures
have also prompted changes in the food supply chain. McDonald’s
said on Feb. 13 it would require pork suppliers to get rid of
gestation pens that animal-rights groups have deemed cruel.  The Humane Society of the United States and  Mercy for
Animals , a nonprofit that promotes a vegetarian diet, are among
the leaders in undercover farm investigations. Their secret
surveillance has led to slaughter plant closures and recalls of
food that may have posed a public health risk.  “Activists have become more of a factor, coming onto farms
under false pretenses and taking video,” said  Lawrence Jacobs ,
a political science professor at the University of Minnesota’s
Humphrey School of Public Affairs, in an interview. “These
stories rally opposition and really are a threat to political
alliances that support ag.”  The covert investigations have roots in Upton Sinclair’s
“The Jungle”, a 1906 novel that brought reforms by raising
awareness of conditions at meatpacking plants.  Agriculture’s Backing  Lawmakers from farm states contend the depictions are
misleading and an attempt by extremists to force retailers to
drop or pressure their suppliers.  People view the activity as “industrial terrorism,” said
 Iowa  state Representative Annette Sweeney, a Republican and
author of gag bill, in an interview. “Some so-called videos put
out there are a fundraiser and don’t depict what’s going on
within the industry. We cherish our livestock.”  Iowa raises 28 percent of all U.S. pork, according to the
 Iowa Farm Bureau Federation . Sweeney’s bill is backed by St.
Louis-based Monsanto, a biotechnology company and the world’s
largest seller of seeds; pork producer Iowa Select Farms LLP,
the subject of a 2011 undercover investigation, and the American
Farm Bureau Federation.  The bills aim to “bring reasonableness” to the debate,
said  Minnesota  Senator Doug Magnus, a Republican from St. Paul
and a farmer, who introduced legislation to outlaw undercover
video at livestock operations. “We’ve even had folks claiming
to represent the Department of Agriculture and Board of Health,
and it was absolutely false, to gain access. To have these folks
doing this is really disturbing.”  Running Clock  While provisions vary by state, the bills generally aim to
make it illegal to tape undercover video at livestock operations
or obtain a farm job under false pretenses, according to the
American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.  A proposal introduced last month in  Nebraska  would require
cruel treatment to be reported within 12 hours, preventing those
who go undercover of the time it takes to amass evidence,
according to animal rights groups.  Some legislative efforts have triggered public backlash and
legal questions about whether they impinged on free speech
protections. A bill outlawing the taking of images at farms
without an owner’s permission failed last month in Florida.
Animal-rights groups rallied against it, arguing trespassing
laws already address such activity. Opponents also said the
measure violated the First Amendment protecting free speech.  Increased Frequency  “Both the volume and immediacy of videos have increased,”
said Palm Beach Atlantic University’s Jamison. “It’s a reaction
by ag states to protect their agricultural base.”  Farmers who have adopted practices that look out for animal
welfare are frustrated that the videos create a distorted
impression of industry practices, said Jamison.  Twenty years ago, such investigations were done to try to
change consumer behavior. Now, he said, they are being done to
pressure retailers into forcing suppliers to change practices.  An undercover video of “downer” cattle unable to walk at
the time of slaughter being kicked and dragged with chains at
Westland/Hallmark Meat Co. in Chino,  California , led to the 2008
recall of 143 million pounds of beef, the largest beef recall in
U.S. history, according to the Agriculture Department. Some of
the beef had been earmarked for the federal school lunch
program. The documentation by the Humane Society also led to a
U.S. ban on the slaughter of downer cattle for food.  Incriminating Footage  Footage of calves being shocked and kicked at Bushway
Packing Inc. in Grand Isle, Vermont, in 2009 led to the
slaughter plant closing, partly because the USDA suspended
inspection services. The footage was taken by a Humane Society
of the United States member posing undercover as an employee.  Videos that appear to depict cruelty may not be accurate
because they don’t tell the whole story, said Minnesota’s
Magnus.  Agriculture interests point to footage released Jan. 30 by
the Humane Society of the United States from a  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  supplier showing sows with injuries and pigs squealing
during castration. In response, the world’s largest retailer,
based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , said it asked the supplier to
begin investigating.  “The video didn’t show any abuse or cruelty,”  David Warner , a spokesman for the  National Pork Producers Council (3228907) ,
said in an e-mail. Images of a sow with a protruding bottom, he
said, would be normal if she had just given birth.  The video “simply was the Humane Society of the U.S.’s
indictment of a system it opposes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  