-- ‘Singin’ in the Rain’ Splashes Up Storm of Dance: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-02-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/-singin-in-the-rain-splashes-up-storm-of-dance-london-stage.html
If you need a shower, sit in the
first five rows at the new show  “Singin’ in the Rain.”   The famous title sequence drenches the stage of the Palace
Theatre with thousands of gallons of falling water, and Adam
Cooper (in the lead role of silent-movie star Don Lockwood) has
enormous fun kicking it straight into the audience.  Though it’s not the first time the 1952 movie (directed by
Stanley Donen and Gene Kelly) about the advent of film talkies
has transferred to the stage, it’s probably the first time it
has been done live with such eye-popping exuberance and detail
in the choreography. Cooper, a former principal with the  Royal
Ballet , invests even the smallest move with meaning and emotion.
In proper musical-comedy fashion, he makes it look so easy.  Throughout the show, choreographer Andrew Wright references
many of the well-known steps from the film. The sequence in
which the three leads step over a sofa at the end of the number
“Good Morning” is true to the original, even though they use a
park bench rather than a sofa. There’s a lively version of the
“Broadway Melody” ballet, with dancer Ebony Molina doing a
slinky take on the Cyd Charisse vamp role.  Some of the numbers are even more generously staged than in
the film. When Don and his friend Cosmo go to a diction coach
(David Lucas) the three of them perform the lively patter-type
song “Moses Supposes.” In the movie, the buttoned-up coach is
merely a stooge: Here he bursts out of his shell and gets as
much to do as the leads. It’s a joy.  Risky Backflip  Daniel Crossley does a superb turn as the clownish Cosmo,
and his “Make ‘em Laugh” number is packed with clever sight
gags. One disappointment: He doesn’t do the up-the-wall backflip
that Donald O’Connor manages in the film. Since O’Connor was
hospitalized because of it, it’s probably just as well.  Scarlett Strallen brings the right note of sweetness and
feistiness to the ingenue role of Kathy Selden, and earns her
hoofer chops in her duets with Cooper. Katherine Kingsley is
hilarious as her nemesis, the egomaniacal and squeaky-voiced
movie diva Lina Lamont.  Some fun new lines have been added to the dialogue. “She
can’t sing, she can’t act, and she can’t dance,” says Cosmo of
Lina. “She’s a triple threat.”  Director Jonathan Church sets all the action on a studio
film lot, which easily transforms into a sidewalk, an office or
a vaudeville venue as need arises. If it were any slicker it
would slide off the stage.  This is an old-fashioned, all-singing, all-dancing delight.  Rating: ****.  Salty Romp  Josie Rourke sets out her stall as new artistic director of
the  Donmar Warehouse  by staging George Farquhar’s 1706 comedy
“The Recruiting Officer.”  It’s a complicated Restoration-style romp, which involves a
girl dressing as a boy to enlist with her recruiting-officer
lover. There are intricately knotted love tangles as subplots.  The language is rich and salty, and the subject of amorous
love is never far from the dialogue. “She would have the
wedding before the consummation, and I was for consummation
before the wedding. We could not agree,” says rakish Captain
Plume about his lover Sylvia.  Rourke delivers a handsome period-costume production, and a
lively band of musicians intersperses the action with songs and
takes on small roles. Nancy Carroll has a dignity and freshness
as Sylvia, the girl who dresses as a boy, and Mackenzie Crook
brings melancholy humor to the role of the rascal Sergeant Kite.  Smirking Fop  Good as they are, both are outshone by Mark Gatiss (writer
of and actor in the  BBC  hit television series “Sherlock”) as
the bewigged and outrageously foppish Captain Brazen. With his
perfectly judged conspiratorial smirks and asides, he plays the
audience like a Stradivarius.  For all that, the play’s mannered cynicism and mechanical
plotting become tiresome after a while, and Rourke could have
made cuts. A running time of 2 hours 50 minutes is too long, and
a final note of pathos in a tableau that hints at some of the
real horrors of warfare feels tacked-on.  Nevertheless, there’s fun to be had. It looks as if the
Donmar’s in safe hands.  Rating: **1/2.  “Singin’ in the Rain” is at the Palace Theatre, 109-113
Shaftesbury Avenue, W1D 8AY. Information: +44-844-412-4656 or
 http://www.singinintherain.co.uk .  “The Recruiting Officer” is at the Donmar Warehouse, 41
Earlham Street, WC2H 9LX. Information: +44-844-871-7624 or
 http://www.donmarwarehouse.com .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 