-- ‘Spider-Man’ Trial Over Script Royalties Scheduled for January
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-02-17T20:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/-spider-man-trial-over-taymor-s-script-royalties-is-scheduled-for-january.html
Director  Julie Taymor  and the
producers of “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark” are set to square
off in federal court in  Manhattan  in January, 2013, 10 years
after  Marvel Entertainment (MVL)  began negotiating for its superhero
to fly on Broadway.  In court today, U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest
scheduled a  jury trial  to start Jan. 7, to resolve Taymor’s
claim that she’s owed money as co-author of the show.  Yesterday, producers and the  Stage Directors and
Choreographers Society  announced a settlement regarding her
director royalties. The lead producers are  Michael Cohl  and
Jeremiah Harris.  Taymor, 59, was removed from the stunt-filled $75 million
musical in March, 2011, after critics lambasted it during an
extended preview period. She sued the producers on Nov. 8,
saying they violated her intellectual property rights by making
changes without her permission and didn’t pay royalties due her
as a co-book writer.  In her suit, Taymor claims she’s owed at least $2,917.50 a
week from April 17, 2011, to the present, plus damages.  Dale Cendali, a lawyer for Cohl and Harris’s 8 Legged
Productions, declined to comment after the hearing. Taymor’s
spokesman, Chris Kanarick, didn’t return an e-mail today.  Possible Settlement  “It is my understanding that there is interest from both
parties to settle the author dispute,” said Laura Penn,
executive director of SDC, which represents directors and
choreographers.  In 2003, producers began negotiating with Marvel about
staging “Spider-Man” on Broadway, according to Taymor’s suit.
The original producing team approached Bono and The Edge of the
band U2 to write a score; they approached Taymor to direct. In
2004, she wrote a three-page treatment for the show and the
following year she registered it with the U.S. Copyright Office,
according to her suit.  All agreed Taymor was to be co-book writer and have
creative control over the show, she said in her complaint.  Cohl and Harris took over as lead producers in 2009,
according to court papers, after the first team faced
“financing difficulties,” according to Taymor’s complaint.
(The leader of that team, Tony Adams, had died in 2005.)  Countersuit Filed  In a countersuit filed on Jan. 17 and amended yesterday, 8
Legged Productions said Taymor refused to listen or cooperate
after a problematic first preview, on Nov. 28, 2010.  “The show is a success despite Taymor, not because of
her,” according to the countersuit, which seeks unspecified
damages against her.  Taymor breached her obligations by “refusing to perform
her duties as a co-writer of the book” and breached her
fiduciary duties, 8 Legged said in the countersuit. It seeks
damages to be determined at trial.  As part of the settlement yesterday, Taymor is entitled to
director royalties of $9,750 a week, from the beginning of the
production until it closes.  The case is Julie Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 1:11-
cv-08002-RJH, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net  