-- Madoff Trustee Picard Seeks Fees to Bring Total to $273 Million
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/madoff-trustee-picard-s-fees-may-top-270-million-since-con-man-s-arrest.html
Irving Picard , the trustee
liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s money management firm, sought
court approval of a payment that would bring total fees for him
and his law firm to about $273 million since the con man’s 2008
arrest.  Picard and  Baker & Hostetler LLP  asked a judge to grant
them $48 million in fees and $1.2 million in expenses for the
four months through Sept. 30, making their eighth fee request in
a filing yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . About
10 percent of the payments are deferred.  Picard, who filed 1,000 suits seeking $100 billion from
banks such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
appealed judges’ rulings in those two cases and others on Feb.
16 that had tossed about $30 billion of his claims.  Recoveries for Madoff customers have climbed to about $9
billion, including amounts that parties have agreed to pay the
estate, Picard said in the filing. About $6.4 billion isn’t
available for distribution because it is tied up in court
challenges or being held in reserve, according to the trustee’s
website.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who tossed about $9 billion
of damages demanded by Picard from HSBC and feeder funds,
challenged Picard’s fees in a court hearing about the trustee’s
$59 billion suit against defendants including  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
Sonja Kohn, the founder of Bank Medici AG.  “I just keep reading in the papers how much is being paid
to Picard,” Rakoff said.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment yesterday on the trustee’s
fees, which are paid by the Securities Investor Protection Corp.
that hired him to liquidate the Madoff brokerage.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  