-- Aegon Profit Falls on Reorganization Costs; Shares Jump on Longevity Swap
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-02-17T11:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/aegon-profit-tumbles-after-reorganization-costs-lower-investment-returns.html
Aegon NV (AGN) , the Dutch owner of U.S.
insurer Transamerica Corp., reported a 75 percent decline in
fourth-quarter profit on reorganization costs and lower
investment returns from equity markets and interest rates.  Net income fell to 79 million euros ($106 million) from 318
million euros a year earlier, the Hague-based insurer said
today. The firm had 194 million euros in charges, including 48
million euros related to U.K. insurance policies.  The  shares rose  as the insurer said it completed a swap
with Deutsche Bank AG to protect the firm against the risk of
pensioners living longer than expected. Aegon, which makes most
of its profit in the U.S., repeated that it aims to increase
underlying pretax profit by 7 percent to 10 percent a year on
average until 2015 and to post a return on equity of 10 percent
to 12 percent.  “It’s positive that longevity risk has been reduced in the
Dutch book,”  Albert Ploegh , an Amsterdam-based analyst at ING
Groep NV, wrote in a note today. “After several insurers had to
take charges on the back of increased longevity, Aegon now
appears to have tackled this issue.”  Shares of Aegon, whose Pyramid building is a landmark in
 San Francisco ’s financial district, jumped as much as 7 percent
in Amsterdam today. They were up 6.3 percent to 3.97 euros at
11:50 a.m. local time, giving the company a market value of 7.6
billion euros. That outpaced the 1.1 percent advance in the 28-
company  Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index .  No Acquisitions  Aegon doesn’t plan a share buyback or acquisitions at this
point, Chief Executive Officer Alex Wynaendts told analysts on a
conference call today. He plans to continue a strategy of
maintaining a strong capital position as market volatility will
likely persist in coming years, even as the “bottom of the euro
crisis is probably behind us.”  Profit missed the average  estimate  of 209 million euros in
a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts. Aegon said today it proposed
a 2011  dividend  of 10 cents per share, as the company had
previously indicated. It would be the company’s first payout
since 2008, when it took state aid during the financial crisis.  “The fourth-quarter result was mainly affected by one-off
charges which we do not expect to occur in 2012,” Lemer Salah,
an Amsterdam-based analyst at SNS Securities, said in a note.
“We believe that the company is well positioned to achieve its
objectives in the U.S. and Netherlands.”  Longevity Swap  Wynaendts said Aegon may do more transactions like today’s
longevity swap, which will see  Deutsche Bank (DBK)  protect 12 billion
euros, or one-third of the reserves in the Dutch business. “The
transaction reduces required capital at an attractive cost,”
Aegon said.  The risk of pensioners living longer will be borne by
investors rather than Deutsche Bank, the German bank said in a
separate statement. It is the first transaction to place such
risk wholly in the  capital markets , it said.  In 2011, Aegon set aside 82 million euros to cover life-
expectancy risks in the Netherlands, Wynaendts said in an
interview today. The transaction today helps the insurer
increase its capacity on the Dutch pension market.  Aegon’s value of new business, a measure of projected
future profitability of new policies, fell 59 percent to 53
million euros in the fourth quarter. That is unsurprising given
“the historic low interest rates” in the insurer’s key
markets, Wynaendts told reporters on the call.  U.K., Dutch Charges  Underlying pretax profit, which excludes investment swings,
fell 23 percent to 346 million euros, almost matching the
average estimate of 347 million euros in a Bloomberg survey of
12 analysts. Earnings on this basis fell 17 percent in 2011.  In the  Netherlands , Aegon wrote down 75 million euros on
its distribution business in anticipation of a ban on
commissions in life and pension products starting in 2013,
Wynaendts said. The U.K. charges, which were related to fixing
administrative errors, exceeded the estimate of Cor Kluis, an
analyst at Rabobank International.  “With all these charges for the U.K. taken, the year 2012
should be a normal profit level,” Kluis, based in Utrecht, the
Netherlands, said in a note.  Aegon’s profit goals rely on assumptions including a 4.75
percent U.S. 10-year bond yield for 2016, which is more than
double the current 2 percent rate.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said last month that it sees
“exceptionally low”  interest rates  through 2014, having
previously pledged to refrain from raising borrowing costs until
at least the middle of 2013. Insurers suffer from lower long-
term interest rates as they hold back returns from bond
investments and increase future liabilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  