-- Maersk Cuts 9% of Asia-Europe Ship Capacity in Effort to Restore Profits
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-02-17T13:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/maersk-cuts-9-of-asia-europe-ship-capacity-in-effort-to-restore-profits.html
Maersk Line (MAERSKB) , the world’s largest
container carrier, said it will cut 9 percent of its shipping
capacity on Asia to Europe, its largest trade route, in an
effort to restore profitability.  Maersk Line  will take out the ships by setting up a vessel-
sharing agreement with CMA-CGM SA, the world’s third-largest
carrier, the Copenhagen-based company said today by e-mail.
 Maersk Line (MAERSKB)  didn’t specify what it will do with the ships and
declined to comment further pending its Feb. 27 earnings report.  Container lines have been losing money as freight  rates 
plunged after the shipping industry added too many ships in
anticipation of a trade recovery. Maersk said today it will
consider additional measures to cut capacity, including changing
time-charter agreements, laying up vessels and sailing slower
where possible.  “We believe this signals a clear change in market strategy
from Maersk, and should be positive for rates and utilization on
the Asia- Europe  trade,” Lars Erich Nilsen, an analyst at Oslo-
based Fearnley Fonds ASA, said in an e-mailed note. “Maersk is
now even open to lay-ups, which it recently was not.”  Nils Smedegaard Andersen, chief executive officer of parent
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, said in November the unit wouldn’t cut
capacity because its size meant it could outlast rivals during
periods of losses. In 2009, the first year the industry failed
to turn a profit since the 1970s, Maersk Line and other carriers
cut capacity to help restore profits a year later.  Losing Money  Maersk and all carriers on the Asia to North Europe route
have lost money since the third quarter of 2011,  Philip Damas , a
director at Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd., said today. Vessel
use on the route has been at 83 percent so far this year, and
lines typically don’t make money until the rate rises above 85
percent, Damas said.  It’s a “surprise that Maersk is doing it now,” Damas said
in a phone interview from  London . “We expected that carriers
would have to take capacity out by the third quarter of 2012.”  There were 490 ships offering 52 different services on the
Asia-Europe route at the end of the year, according to Clarkson,
the world’s largest shipbroker. Maersk Line deploys about 100
vessels on the route, the company said in August.  Maersk shares rose as much as 2.7 percent, adding to gains
after the announcement. The  stock  advanced 1,160 kroner, or 2.5
percent, to 47,000 kroner at 1:42 p.m. in Copenhagen.  Defending Market Share  Container traffic growth on the route will slow to 1.5
percent this year from 2.8 percent in 2011 as European
consumption weakens, Maersk Line said today, citing a January
report from Alphaliner. That compares with estimated container
fleet capacity growth of 8.3 percent, Maersk Line said, citing
the Paris-based shipping forecaster.  “With this adjustment we are able to reduce our Asia-
Europe capacity and improve vessel utilization without giving up
any market share we have gained over the past two years,”
Maersk Line CEO Soeren Skou said in the statement. “We will
defend our market share position at any cost, while focusing on
growing with the market and restoring profitability.”  Still, cutting capacity usually signals a company is
scaling back its target for market share, said Drewry’s Damas.  “It appears that Maersk has stopped its policy of going
after market share,” he said. Rates are likely to rise because
of Maersk’s decision, he said.  Price Increases  Maersk Line said last month it will attempt to increase the
price it charges to transport a 20-foot container from  Asia  to
Europe by as much as $775, doubling the current price, to help
restore profits.  Maersk Line, which has a global market share of about 16
percent, said in November it would lose money in 2011, lowering
a previous forecast for a “modest” profit.  Global freight rates dropped on average 25 percent last
year, according to RS Platou Markets AS. Prices fell the most on
Asia-to-Europe routes, where the decline was almost 60 percent,
the Oslo-based broker said in a Jan. 4 note.  CMA-CGM, based in Marseille,  France , on Dec. 1 said it will
start a vessel-sharing accord with Mediterranean Shipping Co.,
the world’s second-largest container line.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  