-- Lafarge Jumps Most in 5 Months on Profit, Outlook: Paris Mover
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-02-17T14:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/lafarge-jumps-most-in-month-on-operating-profit-cost-cutting-paris-mover.html
Lafarge SA (LG)  jumped as much as 10.3
percent, the most in almost five months, after the French cement
maker posted a better-than-expected operating profit and
signaled earnings may rise in 2012 as it cuts expenditure.  Shares of the world’s biggest cement maker rose to as much
as 35.12 euros in their biggest intraday gain since Sept. 27.
They traded 8.3 percent higher at 34.48 euros as of 15:05 p.m.
in Paris. The stock was the biggest gainer on the benchmark CAC
40 Index.  Lafarge posted a 3 percent increase in current operating
income in the fourth quarter of 538 million euros ($709
million), beating analyst  estimates . The company, which cut debt
by 2 billion euros to 12 billion euros last year, will sell at
least 1 billion euros of assets this year, halve its dividend,
shrink capital expenditure by 400 million euros, reduce costs by
a further 400 million euros, and try to raise prices.  “This is a good set of numbers in the fourth quarter from
Lafarge, driven mainly by  Europe  and the U.S., and the
management is clearly going after debt reduction in a big way,”
said  Tim Cahill , an analyst at J&E Davy Holdings, in an e-mail.
He maintained his “Underweight” rating on Lafarge because of
concerns about cost inflation and cement demand.  Chief Executive OfficerBruno Lafont is deepening cost cuts
amid higher raw material prices as he seeks to repair a credit
rating that has fallen below investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s 
and Moody’s Investors Service cut the company’s credit rating to
“junk” in 2011.  “I hope that with all the measures we take and with the
moderate volume assumptions we are making, that it will produce
an increase of results,” the CEO said on an analyst conference
in Paris today. “Debt will be significantly reduced.”  Debt Woes  The company, based in Paris will aim to lift its cash-flow-
to-debt ratio to 28 percent, up from 13 percent in 2011 “as
soon as possible” to regain an investment-grade  credit rating ,
the CEO said.  The company has 1.4 billion euros in maturing debt this
year, and there is no need to sell new bonds to refinance it, he
said. Lafarge may use private placements if opportunities arise,
Chief Financial Officer Jean-Jacques Gauthier said.  “Lafarge reported an excellent operating profit,” said
Sven Edelfelt, a Paris-based analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co., in
a note to investors. The profit and the cost-cutting plan
“bolsters our ‘buy’ case,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  