-- Thailand to Sell Record Debt After Floods, Bond Association Says
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-02-17T05:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/thailand-to-sell-record-debt-in-2012-after-floods-bond-association-says.html
Thailand  is expected to sell the
most debt on record this year as infrastructure is rebuilt
following the worst floods in seven decades, according to the
Thai Bond Market Association.  The government plans to sell about 500 billion baht ($16.3
billion) of bonds in the first nine months of 2012, compared
with 512 billion baht for the whole of 2010, which was the most
since the TBMA began collecting the data in 2002, the group’s
President Niwat Kanjanaphoomin said in an interview in Bangkok.
Thai companies may sell 300 billion baht of debt this year, the
most since 2009 and up from 212 billion baht in 2011, Niwat said.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has pledged to spend 350
billion baht on water-management projects to avoid a repeat of
last year’s floods, which spread across two-thirds of the
country and crippled thousands of factories.  PTT Pcl (PTT) , Thailand’s
biggest company, last month revived a planned sale of 20 billion
baht of bonds that it postponed in November, and  Bank of Ayudhya
Pcl  plans to sell 20 billion baht of debt to fund new loans.  The  yield  on Thailand’s five-year government bond has
dropped 28 basis points in the past six months to 3.22 percent
yesterday and the  rate  on corporate notes has slumped 51 basis
points to 3.5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
and the TBMA.  “Yields are shifting down, giving lower costs for the
issuer, and it’s also time to restart projects and new
investment postponed after the floods,” Niwat said. “The
government has a plan to use its budget to restore confidence
and build some protection from the floods, so we will have more
issues from the government and corporates.”  Flood Damage  The TBMA’s forecast for bond sales in the first nine months
of this year excludes potential government debt offerings as
part of its 350 billion-baht budget for improving waterways,
Niwat said.  Thailand’s economy probably shrank 5 percent in the three
months through December from a year earlier, according to the
median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a
Feb. 20 report. That would be the first decline since 2009.  “Without external factors, an increase in issuance is
negative for Thai bonds,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at
Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “There is concern that the
fiscal situation will further deteriorate for Thailand, more so
due to the floods.”  Thailand’s long-term local-currency debt is rated A- by
 Standard & Poor’s , two levels below  South Korea  and one step
below  Malaysia . South Korea’s five-year government bond yield is
3.56 percent and Malaysia’s is 3.16 percent.  Bank Fees  Thai financial institutions are also selling more debt as
they prepare to start paying higher fees in July, Niwat said.
Banks will pay an annual amount equivalent to 0.47 percent of
their total deposits, up from 0.4 percent, to help repay state
debt, the government and the central bank said this month.  Global funds will probably buy more Thai securities because
of uncertainties surrounding  Europe ’s debt crisis, Niwat said.
He expects  foreign holdings  of Thai government bonds to increase
to more than 500 billion baht by the end of this year from 442
billion baht in January. The government has 5.2 trillion baht of
outstanding debt, according to TBMA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  