-- Air Liquide Sees Global Economy Returning to Normal After Pause
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-02-17T12:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/air-liquide-sees-global-economy-returning-to-normal-after-pause.html
Air Liquide SA (AI) , the world’s largest
producer of industrial gases, said demand from major
manufacturers is returning to normal after  Europe ’s debt crisis
prompted them to hold off investment and draw down inventories.  “The past four months can be clearly divided into two
halves,” Air Liquide Chief Executive Officer Benoit Potier told
journalists in Paris today. “In the fourth quarter there was
huge uncertainty and that really weighed on business.  China  cut
back for three months, waiting to see what would happen in
Europe and China’s role is key.”  The euro-area economy shrank in the fourth quarter and
China’s gross domestic product rose at the weakest pace in more
than two years as European policy makers struggled to contain
the sovereign debt crisis. Air Liquide’s own sales slowed then
as like-for-like revenue from gas and services units climbed
1.9 percent, compared with 7.5 percent in the year as a whole.  “What was striking was the decisions taken by the big
industrial companies, the makers of steel and electronics, ”
Potier said. “They closed their taps. Now they’re starting to
come back.”  Concern about European governments’ ability to pay their
debts has eased since December, when the  European Central Bank 
began providing three-year loans to banks. The ECB loaned euro-
region banks a record 489 billion euros ($643 billion) for three
years on Dec. 21, adding liquidity and helping borrowing costs
decline for countries including Italy, Spain and  France .  “Now, very recently, we’re back into normality,” Potier
said. “It’s as if the worry about the euro is behind us. That’s
how we feel it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  