-- Alibaba Group Said to Plan Privatizing Alibaba.com Close to IPO Price
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-02-17T06:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/alibaba-said-to-plan-to-take-alibaba-com-private-for-close-to-ipo-price.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (ALIBABZ)  plans to
take private its  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688)  unit in a deal that may value 
the Hong Kong-listed company at as much as $8.7 billion, 
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  China ’s biggest e-commerce company, which owns more than  72
percent of Alibaba.com , may offer a price close to the HK$13.50
a share at which the stock was sold in a 2007 initial public
offering, one person said, asking not to be identified because
the information is private. That’s 55 percent above Alibaba.com’
 20-day moving average  through Feb. 8, after which its shares
were suspended.  At the IPO price, buying the 28 percent it doesn’t already
own will cost Alibaba Group about $2.4 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. John Spelich, a Hong Kong-based
spokesman for Alibaba Group, declined to comment.  Hong Kong Economic Times reported yesterday that Alibaba
Group may offer HK$13.50 a share, citing people it didn’t
identify.  The privatization is being planned with Alibaba.com’s
shares down 44 percent in the 12 months before trading was
halted. The IPO was priced a day before the  Hang Seng Index 
climbed to a record on Oct. 30, 2007. Since then, the index has
dropped 32 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Alibaba Group’s talks to buy back a stake in itself that is
currently held by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have reached an impasse, a person
familiar with the matter said this week. Yahoo is the biggest
shareholder in closely held Alibaba Group with a stake of about
40 percent.  Alibaba Group plans to sign loan documents for a $3 billion
facility with six banks as early as next week, a person familiar
with the matter said today. The funds are being borrowed for a
potential deal involving Yahoo, which could also include buying
back Alibaba.com, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  