-- Hana Wins Support of KEB Staff After Takeover, Averting Strike
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-02-17T04:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/hana-wins-support-of-keb-staff-after-takeover-averting-strike.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  won
support from employees of  Korea Exchange Bank (004940) , the company it
bought this month, averting a strike after assuring them it will
keep staff and run the lender independently.  Hana and the workers’ union at the bank known as KEB agreed
to retain the existing wage system, Hana said in a statement
today. They may begin discussing a merger between the group’s
Hana Bank unit and KEB five years from now, it said.  Hana last week completed its 4.4 trillion won ($3.9
billion) acquisition from Lone Star Funds and Export Import Bank
of  Korea , after the deal had been delayed for more than a year
by legal disputes, regulatory hurdles and opposition by KEB
workers. Today’s agreement should allow Hana Chairman Kim Seung Yu to achieve a smooth integration, according to Daishin
Securities Co.  “It’s positive in that they avoided the worst-case
scenario -- a strike at KEB,” said Choi Jung Wook, a Seoul-
based analyst at Daishin. “Early normalization of businesses is
good for Hana and KEB.”  KEB workers had been asking Hana for guarantees of  job
security  and independent management of the bank, threatening
action including a strike if their demands weren’t met by today.  “KEB’s fine human resources is one of the biggest reasons
why we wanted the bank and we need them to make Hana a globally
competitive financial company,” Kim told reporters today.
“While keeping the two banks separate, we’ll continue to look
for ways to create synergy and cooperation between Hana Bank and
KEB.”  Shares of Hana  rose 1.1 percent to 41,450 won at 1:30 p.m.
in Seoul trading and KEB gained 1.9 percent to 8,160 won. The
benchmark Kospi index advanced 1.5 percent.  Hana may consider increasing its stake in KEB in the
future, Kim said, while adding that there are no immediate plans
to do so. He said he will step down as chairman once his term
ends in March and asked the company’s internal committee to look
for a replacement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  