-- Andy Warhol’s Fontana Painting Boosts $9 Million London Auction
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-02-17T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/andy-warhol-s-fontana-painting-boosts-9-million-london-auction.html
A Lucio Fontana “slashed” canvas
formerly owned by  Andy Warhol  was the top seller in an auction
that raised $9 million as trademark works by contemporary
artists continued to attract collectors and investors.  The 1960 cream-colored “Concetto spaziale, Attese” -- with
six of the Italian conceptual artist’s cuts making it instantly
recognizable as his work -- fetched 1 million pounds ($1.65
million) including fees. It was among 25 lots of contemporary
art offered by Phillips de Pury & Co. in London last night.  “Prices are strong,” the Paris-based collector John Sayegh-
Belchatowski said. “The market is deep, not like the fantasy of
2007,” said Sayegh-Belchatowski, who was outbid on the two lots
he hoped to buy.  Contemporary art is attracting newer buyers, with many
opting for signature works by well-known artists such as  Gerhard Richter ,  Francis Bacon  and  Lucian Freud . The Phillips event
followed evening sales at  Christie’s International (CHRS)  and  Sotheby’s (BID) 
that took a combined total of 131.3 million pounds with about 90
percent of the lots successful.  The Fontana was bought with a single bid from Phillips’s
Moscow-based specialist Svetlana Marich, representing a client
on the telephone. The price with fees equaled the low estimate,
based on hammer prices. The work, with its prestigious
provenance, would have attracted more competition if it hadn’t
been previously offered on the market, dealers said.  Slimline Sale  Phillips’s auction, described as “a slimline sale of
classics” by  Michael McGinnis , the company’s worldwide head of
contemporary art, came at the end of two weeks of contemporary,
Impressionist and modern auctions in the U.K. capital. The
Phillips event raised 5.7 million pounds with just two lots
failing. It had been valued at between 5.2 million pounds and
7.7 million pounds.  Four works sold for hammer prices above valuations. Among
these was  Cindy Sherman ’s 2003 photographic self portrait,
“Untitled #410,” showing the artist in a clown’s mask and cowboy
hat, which attracted at least four telephone bidders before
selling for 433,250 pounds with fees. It was one of three
guaranteed lots, with an estimate of 200,000 pounds to 300,000
pounds.  Warhol himself was represented by a 1974 blue, brown and
orange “Mao” silkscreen painting. This sold for 457,250 pounds
to a telephone buyer against an Asian underbidder in the room.
It had been valued at 300,000 pounds to 500,000 pounds.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 