-- Anglo American’s Annual Profit Exceeds Estimates, Assessing Platinum Unit
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-02-17T18:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/anglo-american-says-earnings-advance-23-in-12-months-through-december.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , a producer of
metals and minerals from  Africa  to  Brazil , said 2011 profit
climbed 23 percent, beating estimates, and that it is
considering changes to its platinum unit to restore returns.  Underlying earnings climbed to a record $6.12 billion, or
$5.06 a share, from $4.98 billion, or $4.13 a share, the London-
based company said today in a statement. That compares with the
$4.67 median estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Anglo will pay a dividend of 46 cents a share, compared with
Bloomberg’s forecast of 44 cents.  Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll , like her rivals at
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , is expanding iron-ore,
copper and coal mines to tap growing Asian demand. Anglo may
spend $98 billion on more than 85 projects to double production,
Carroll said today, without giving a period.  “Tempering exuberance, the beat is due to lower-than-
expected depreciation and tax charges,” Liberum Capital Ltd.
said in a note today, referring to adjusted earnings.  Anglo rose for the first time in four days, gaining 1.1
percent to close at 2,674 pence in London. BHP, the biggest
mining company, declined 0.8 percent while  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  increased
1.6 percent.  ‘Size and Shape’  Anglo American Platinum Ltd., the world’s largest producer
of the metal, earlier this week cut its 2012 output target and
put a freeze on employment after annual profit slid 64 percent
to 3.59 billion rand ($463 million) and as  Europe ’s debt crisis
weighs on metal prices. Returns at Anglo American Platinum are
not in keeping with the levels Anglo expects, Carroll told
reporters on a conference call.  “We are looking at the size and the shape of the platinum
business and how we can fundamentally shift it and return it to
the sort of returns we had in 2008,” she said. Anglo should
look at “how much we should be recycling, how much we should be
driving the downstream part.” It won’t make decisions on this
until the “latter part” of the year, she said.  Anglo will assess unprofitable mines or examine the
“configuration” of the business, she told investors.  Anglo owns about 77 percent of  Anglo American Platinum. (AMS)  It
also has 45 percent of  De Beers  and has offered $5.1 billion to
boost its stake in the diamond miner to as much as 85 percent.  Platinum and diamonds are part of the so-called late-cycle
commodities that set Anglo apart from its rivals. Their price
movements typically lag behind other commodities and can bridge
profit at times when other prices fall.  Codelco Dispute  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s 23.5 billion-pound ($37
billion) bid for Xstrata, announced Feb. 7 was no surprise,
Carroll told Bloomberg Television. “It really doesn’t change
anything from a competitive standpoint,” she said. Asked if
Anglo wished to remain independent, Carroll said the company had
“the scale, and we’ve got the most balanced and diversified
portfolio in the industry,” with 150,000 people in 30
countries.  The company has “reached out” to resolve a dispute over
ownership of its Chilean copper unit, Carroll told reporters on
the call today. Anglo has not been able “to reach a settlement
with Codelco that takes into account Anglo’s strong legal
position,” Carroll told investors in  London .  Talks broke down between the two sides on Jan. 31,
Santiago-based La Tercera said Feb. 14, citing  Diego Hernandez ,
the CEO of state-owned Codelco.  Future Growth  Carroll doesn’t see the dispute hindering future growth in
 Chile , the world’s largest copper-producing nation, she told
investors.  Anglo may complete non-core disposals, which have seen it
selling businesses from sugar to paper, with the sale of its
Scaw steel business in  South Africa  this year, Carroll said on
the call with reporters.  Analysts that track Anglo American use underlying earnings,
excluding special items and “re-measurements” that include
some currency gains and losses, to assess performance.  Second-half adjusted earnings rose 8.3 percent to $2.48 a
share from $2.29 a year earlier, Anglo said in an e-mailed
statement. The company’s annual net income fell 6 percent to
$6.17 billion from $6.54 billion.  “This result is in line or marginally below -- adjusting
for one-offs -- expectations at the operating profit level but
the total result is better than expectations on a lower  tax
rate ” of 28.3 percent from 31.9 percent, Deutsche Bank AG
analysts wrote in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  