-- Apple’s Stock May Not Be as Cheap as It Looks: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-02-17T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/apple-s-stock-may-not-be-as-cheap-as-it-looks-jonathan-weil.html
Throughout the extraordinary surge
in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s  share price , a persistent question has lingered:
Why is the stock still so  cheap ? One overlooked answer may be
that Apple’s accounting isn’t as conservative as it used to be.  After topping $500 a share this week, the iPhone and iPad
maker now has a $468 billion  market capitalization . Yet Apple
trades for only 14.3 times its earnings for the previous four
quarters -- about the same as the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index’s
price-earnings ratio -- in spite of growth that’s far above
average. Revenue last quarter rose 73 percent to $46.3 billion,
while earnings more than doubled to $13.1 billion.  Many theories have been floated for why such a rapidly
expanding company with such loyal customers would trade for so
little. Perhaps investors believe Apple will cling to its $97.6
billion hoard of cash and marketable securities, rather than pay
a fat dividend. Others have suggested a lack of confidence about
the future. It’s a consumer-electronics company, after all, and
competition is brutal.  While each of those points has merit, here’s an explanation
that hasn’t gotten enough attention: Thanks to an  accounting-
rule  change for which it lobbied, Apple gets to book revenue
from sales of bundled products such as iPhones -- which include
hardware, software, services and upgrade rights -- more quickly
than it used to. In short, one reason Apple’s earnings have been
so high is accounting inflation, and the market realizes this.  Restated Numbers  The easiest way to see the rule change’s impact is to look
back at the  two sets  of numbers Apple reported for fiscal 2009.
Originally, the company said it had $5.7 billion of net income
for the year on $36.5 billion of revenue. Then in January 2010
Apple retroactively adopted the new accounting principles and
restated its previous numbers. The restatement boosted Apple’s
fiscal 2009 net income 44 percent to $8.2 billion. Revenue was
revised to $42.9 billion, 17 percent higher than originally
reported.  Nothing changed economically, of course. Only the
accounting did. On the surface, though, Apple’s valuation looked
cheaper under the new reporting regime than under the old one.  On Dec. 31, 2009, for instance, Apple had a market
capitalization of about $191 billion. Using the fiscal 2009
earnings that Apple initially reported, its price-earnings ratio
that day was about 33. Using its restated numbers, the ratio
would have been about 23. My guess is a similar effect is
occurring today: Had it not been for the rule change, Apple’s
P/E ratio would be higher, because the “E” would be lower.  “It would appear that the market continues to consider a
significant component of Apple’s revenues and gross profit to be
presently unearned and not deserving of a normal market
multiple,” said Charles Mulford, an accounting professor and
director of the Financial Reporting and Analysis Lab at Georgia
Institute of Technology in Atlanta.  Apple was one of a  handful  of companies that  lobbied  the
 Financial Accounting Standards Board  for the new rules in 2009.
The impact for Apple seems to have been greater than for most
others, probably because of the nature of its products.  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  said the rule switch had no material impact on its results.
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  said the same.  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ’s earnings got a slight boost.  The FASB rule change had two main parts. One related to so-
called  multiple-deliverable arrangements , while another covered
 software  sales. When Apple sells an iPhone, for example, the
hardware and software are delivered at the time of sale. Other
deliverables include the rights to future software upgrades and
other features.  Economic Life  The old accounting rules required Apple to defer large
chunks of its revenue and recognize the amounts gradually over
each product’s economic life. While the details are complicated,
the gist under the new rules is that Apple is allowed to record
more revenue upfront.  What’s unknowable is how much different Apple’s latest
results would have looked had the FASB not amended its
standards. There’s no way to tell from the company’s
disclosures. Plus, Apple adopted the new accounting principles
right before it  introduced  the iPad. An Apple spokeswoman,
 Kristin Huguet , didn’t return phone calls seeking comment.  Let me be clear: I’m not opining on whether Apple is
overvalued or undervalued, and I’m certainly not making any
predictions about its stock price. The point here is that it
makes sense for Apple’s earnings multiple to have declined
significantly once you consider how the company’s accounting has
changed.  The bottom line: Not all iEarnings are created equal.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  