-- Apple Files Competition Claim Against Motorola Mobility With EU Authority
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-02-17T23:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/apple-files-competition-claim-against-motorola-mobility-with-eu-authority.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  said
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  filed a complaint with the European Union’s
competition authority accusing the company of violating a pledge
to license industry-standard patents on fair terms.  Motorola Mobility said in a regulatory filing that it was
notified of the complaint today by the European Commission.
 Jennifer Erickson , a Motorola Mobility spokeswoman, said the
company is willing to negotiate a patent license with Apple.  Apple and Motorola Mobility have sued each other in the
U.S. and  Europe  over technology used in smartphones, a market
that researcher IDC said grew 55 percent last year. Motorola
Mobility won two out of three rulings in lawsuits it filed
against Apple in a Mannheim, Germany, court, and in one case
forced Apple to remove some older iPhone and iPad models from
its online store in  Germany .  Companies often collaborate on standards that are used to
make products work together, with participants pledging to
fairly license any patents on the standards they help create.
Apple contends  Motorola Mobility (MMI)  is violating that commitment.
Motorola Mobility, which has said it’s been in licensing talks
with Apple since 2007, denied the charge.  “MMI has a long-standing practice of licensing our patents
on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and we offered
those to Apple,” Erickson said.  German Courts  German courts have become the focal point of litigation
between the two companies, with each seeking orders that would
limit sales of the others’ products. Yesterday, a court in
Munich said Motorola Mobility’s mobile phones infringe an Apple
patent for a method of unlocking touch screens.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which is buying Libertyville, Illinois-based
Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion, pledged to continue the
company’s licensing practices. Regulators in Europe and the U.S.
granted approval to the purchase while expressing some
reservation about how industry-standard patents are handled.  Both Apple and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have said they wouldn’t seek
any court order to block use of technology covered by industry-
standard patents even as they pursue infringement claims over
non-essential patents against Motorola Mobility.  Google said it would seek a royalty fee of no more than
2.25 percent of the net cost of devices using its patents, and
would try to resolve any disputes through negotiation before
asking courts to block use of the Motorola Mobility technology.  “We are aware of the increasingly strategic use of patents
in the sector and are vigilant,” EU’s antitrust chief  Joaquin Almunia  said Feb. 13. “We can avoid a continuation of this
patent war.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  