-- Argentina’s Capital Flight Slowed From Record Pace on Fernandez Controls
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-17T14:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/argentina-s-capital-flight-slowed-from-record-pace-on-fernandez-controls.html
Argentine capital flight slowed from
a record pace in the fourth quarter after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  tightened controls in the foreign exchange
market and forced companies to repatriate export revenue.  Investors withdrew $3.3 billion from  South America ’s
second-biggest economy in the October-through-December period,
down from $8.4 billion in the previous quarter, the central bank
said in a report yesterday. Argentines took $21.5 billion out of
the country in 2011, up from $11.4 billion in 2010. The annual
figure was below the record $23.1 billion withdrawn in 2008.  With  Argentina  blocked from international credit markets
since a 2001 default, Fernandez depends on a  trade surplus  to
bring dollars into the economy. After winning re-election in
October, Fernandez ordered energy and mining companies to
repatriate export revenue, tightened oversight of foreign
exchange purchases and told insurance companies to bring
investments back into the country.  “The controls were very effective and there has been a
strong slowdown in outflows,” said  Jorge Todesca , a former
deputy economy minister who now runs Finsoport Economia y
Finanzas research company in Buenos Aires.  Unable to buy greenbacks, Argentines tapped their dollar
deposits, which fell to $13.3 billion on Feb. 3 from $15.9
billion in October, according to central bank data. YPF SA, the
country’s biggest energy company, said in a Feb. 14 letter to
the government that it was struggling to import fuels as a
result of the foreign exchange measures.  Restrictions, Measures  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
over U.S. Treasuries fell 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage
point, to 805 at 11:33 a.m. in Buenos Aires, the biggest drop
among emerging market economies in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
index.  Fernandez introduced additional restrictions this year to
further stem capital flight and a narrowing trade surplus. The
government ordered all importers to get permission from the
federal tax agency before bringing goods into the country.  Fiat
Spa (F) ’s local unit halted production for two days last month
because of a supply shortage.  Shrinking Reserves  Annual  inflation  that economists estimate at about 23
percent, the highest among major global economies after
Venezuela, and uncertainty over Fernandez’s economic policies
fueled the surge in capital flight last year. Central bank
 reserves  shrank last year to $46.4 billion from a record $52.6
billion. The government says prices rose 9.7 percent in January
from a year earlier.  “There was a slowdown in outflows not because people had
more confidence in the local currency but because the
authorities tightened the sale of dollars,” said  Boris Segura ,
a Latin America strategist at Nomura Securities International
Inc. in  New York . “The demand for dollars remains.”  The government’s measures have allowed the central bank to
buy dollars in the foreign exchange market and rebuild reserves
to $46.8 billion.  Fernandez, 58, needs to keep accumulating reserves to be
able to tap about $5.7 billion for debt payments this year, as
forecast in the government’s 2012 budget. The government used
$6.6 billion of reserves in 2010 and $7.5 billion in 2011 to
make debt payments.  ‘Pressures for Devaluation’  The peso fell 7.6 percent against the dollar last year,
compared with a 11.1 percent drop by  Brazil ’s real and a 11
percent drop by the  Mexican peso . The currency is down 0.1
percent to 4.3560 per dollar in trading today.  Capital flight will tumble this year to about $16 billion
as a result of slower  economic growth , said  Fausto Spotorno , an
economist at Orlando Ferreres & Asociados research in  Buenos
Aires . The government forecasts a 5.1 percent expansion this
year, down from 9.2 percent in 2011.  “With inflation running faster than 20 percent, Argentines
bet on a  currency devaluation ,” Spotorno said. “This year,
there will be a lower capital outflow but pressures for
devaluation will continue. Sooner or later, there has to be some
kind of devaluation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  