-- Larger Turbines May Help China’s Wind Developers, Ming Yang Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-17T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/larger-turbines-may-help-china-s-wind-developers-ming-yang-says.html
Developers of wind-power projects in
China are increasing installations of larger capacity turbines
to reduce costs in the world’s biggest market, the chief
executive officer of  China Ming Yang Wind Power Group Ltd. (MY)  said.  More than 40 percent of new installations in China in 2012
will comprise turbines with capacities above 2 megawatts, Zhang Chuanwei, the CEO of the company that is China’s only maker of
the machines with shares traded in the U.S., said in a Feb. 15
telephone interview. The market is dominated by 1.5-megawatt
turbines, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, which
estimated that the larger machines accounted for less than 10
percent of installations last year.  “Developers have started leaning toward buying 2.5- or 3-
megawatt turbines to enable them to use fewer machines to save
on land costs,” said Zhang, whose company is the country’s
fourth-biggest producer of the machines.  Growth in  China ’s wind industry is slowing after the
government tightened approval for wind projects on concern over
the ability of grids to carry electricity load. Turbine-makers
including Ming Yang and the three biggest,  Sinovel Wind Group
Co. (601558) ,  Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co.  and Guodian
United Power Technology Co., produce machines that have larger
capacities than the standard 1.5 megawatts.  China led the world in wind capacity last year, installing
18 gigawatts of wind farms, a 9 percent increase from the
previous year, according to the Global Wind Energy Council.
Zhang expects the country to add 18 to 20 gigawatts this year.  Continued Dominance  “The 1.5-megawatt turbines will continue its dominance
this year,” said Demi Zhu, a Beijing-based analyst at New
Energy Finance. She only expects larger turbines to supply a
majority of the market after 2013.  Zhang expects prices of  wind turbines  to rebound this year.
The average price of Chinese turbines for onshore projects
declined 3.8 percent to about 3,853 yuan ($612) a kilowatt in
the fourth quarter from a year earlier, according to New Energy
Finance data.  Producers can’t afford to only compete by offering lowest
prices, as developers also “care about the durability of the
turbines, the track record of suppliers and their after-sale
services,” Zhang said.  China in 2011 stopped allowing local governments to approve
the construction of new turbine-production plants to control the
crowded market for smaller turbines on fears overcapacity could
damage the industry.  Zhongshan-based Ming Yang, whose shares have gained 14
percent this year in New York trading, won orders in a tender in
October to supply 2.5- or-3-megawatt turbines for projects in
Jiuquan city in China’s northwestern province of Gansu, Zhang
said, without elaborating.  Ming Yang is “interested in expanding our presence in
emerging wind markets in  Mongolia ,  South Africa ,  India ,  South
Asia  and Eastern Europe,” Zhang said. The company on Feb. 7
agreed to supply turbines to 125 megawatts of wind farms in
 Bulgaria .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 Fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 