-- Harris to Offer Android-Based Computer Tablet for Military
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-02-17T21:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/harris-to-offer-android-based-computer-tablet-for-military.html
Harris Corp. (HRS) , a maker of radios and
communications equipment, plans to offer its first computer
tablet to the U.S. military and other customers.  The  Melbourne , Florida-based company, which had $5.92
billion in  revenue  last fiscal year, said it will introduce next
week a rugged, 2-pound tablet that uses  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system. The device is designed to connect to military
radios to provide troops with voice, video and data
communications.  “We thought there was some space in the market for an
Android-based tablet with some unique military features,”
Dennis Moran, the company’s vice president of government
business development, said in an interview. Harris will show the
product at an Army conference beginning Feb. 22 in  Fort
Lauderdale ,  Florida .  The U.S. military increasingly has turned to smart phones
and tablets as broadband communications on the battlefield have
become more critical, notably during the wars in  Afghanistan  and
 Iraq .  The Air Force’s Air Mobility Command earlier this month
said it may buy as many as 18,000  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad 2s to lighten
the load of flight crews, in what would be one of the military’s
largest orders of computer tablets.  “The iPad is a great device, but I have to assume that the
Army would want a product that would be of a ruggedized nature
and could have the capability to not only operate on
conventional cellular networks, but also operate on the Army’s
private networks,”  Lawrence Harris , an analyst in New York with
CL King & Associates Inc., said in a telephone interview.  Portable Radios  Harris, who has no relationship to the company, has a
“strong buy” rating on the company. Harris shares fell 6
cents, or 0.14 percent, to $42.66 in  New York  trading. They have
risen 18 percent this year.  The company expects “large” orders for the product “in
the very near term,” Moran said. Jim Burke, a spokesman for
Harris, later said Moran was referring to initial customer
interest, not any pending order.  Potential customers include the Army, Marine Corps, special
forces, allied militaries, and  law enforcement  and public safety
organizations, Moran said.  A tablet shown to Bloomberg News included software
applications developed by Harris for chat and mapping, so troops
or units are able to communicate and see where they are in
relation to one another. It also included the popular game
“Angry Birds,” made by Rovio Entertainment Oy.  Night-Vision Goggles  The company has sold more than 160,000 handheld and about
20,000 portable radios for military use. U.S. soldiers, Marines
and allied forces are using about 5,000 of the latter in
Afghanistan and elsewhere.  Sales of those products have boosted the company’s RF
Communications segment, whose revenue rose to $2.29 billion in
fiscal 2011 from $2.07 billion in fiscal 2010.  Harris competes against companies such as  Thales SA (HO)  of
 France  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  of  Falls Church , Virginia.  The touch-screen device is designed to be used with gloves
or with a stylus, and in the sun or with night-vision goggles.  It doesn’t include a chip to encrypt information and
instead relies on software algorithms for security, Moran said.
The radio to which it tethers does include hardware encryption,
he said.  “We are looking for guidance from NSA,” or the National
Security Agency, which develops software security standards for
products used by the  Defense (USBODEFN)  Department, Moran said. Still,
“security is not going to be a cost-driver in these kinds of
products,” he said.  Defense Budget  Mark Jordan, a senior research analyst in  St. Louis  for
Noble Financial Group Inc., said Harris is “leading the
industry” in bringing broadband communications to tactical
radios. He has a “buy” rating on the company.  “Some form of tablet or PC would be very useful in
displaying the data that would typically be carried over that
broadband stream,” he said in a telephone interview. “You need
more of a display. Communication is coming in files and
streaming video. You need something to plug into the radio to be
able to capture it, retain it and play it back.”  While the Defense Department plans to cut at least $490
billion, or about 8 percent, from its 10-year budget, investment
in networking and communications products may grow.  The U.S. Army’s fiscal 2013 budget proposal released this
week includes $556 million for procurement of the Joint Tactical
Radio System, a family of digital radios, up from $427 million
in fiscal 2012 and from $88.6 million in fiscal 2011, according
to budget documents.  Harris said the tablet was in development for more than a
year. Officials wouldn’t say whether they manufactured the
technology themselves or gave the work to a notebook or computer
maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  