-- As a Compromise, How About a Federal Sex Tax? Stephen L. Carter
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-02-17T15:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/as-a-compromise-how-about-a-federal-sex-tax-stephen-l-carter.html
Here’s a modest proposal: Let’s tax
sex and use the proceeds to fund  birth control  for women whose
health plans don’t cover it. Surely this compromise would resolve
the controversy over contraceptives and religious organizations.
All women would have access to contraception, and religious
objectors wouldn’t have to pay a penny.  Before you start laughing, consider the policy arguments.
It’s heterosexual sex that creates the medical problem
contraception is intended to avert, so we would be aligning the
incentives properly. Moreover, by all accounts there is plenty of
sex going on in America, so the tax would generate a great deal
of money. (If 200 million sexually active citizens have sex twice
a month, a $2 fee would amount to about $10 billion a year. Of
course, we would have to rely on self-reporting, but that’s a
separate issue.)  True, the people actually engaging in sex (as well as many
others who wish they were) might object that the sex tax burdens
a fundamental right. They would be entirely correct. But so what?
The Constitution (which doesn’t mention sex) is after all a
living document, which must be reinterpreted to meet the needs of
the era. And the basic need of this era, it seems, is
contraception for all. Thus the claim of right must yield.  Fundamental Rights  This is basically the position of those who think we should
ignore the objections of the Catholic bishops and others to the
new Health and Human Services rule (and it is  a final rule , not a
proposed rule) requiring employers to provide health insurance
that covers a variety of forms of contraception. The Catholic
bishops and other protesters are making precisely the same
argument as would arise against my proposal for a sex tax: that
it violates a fundamental right. And, unlike the right to sex
(which I take it most of us hold dear) the  right to religion  is
actually mentioned in the Constitution.  The initial HHS rule required all employers, subject to a
religious exemption drawn with contemptuous narrowness, to
provide health insurance policies that included various forms of
contraception. After protests, the administration rewrote the
rule in a way that makes no difference whatsoever. Now the rule
requires that the insurer cover contraception, but the employer
evidently need not tell the employee this -- the insurance
company will explain it instead -- and then the employee gets the
contraceptives anyway, under the plan purchased by the employer.  The Catholic bishops and their supporters argue that the
state cannot force them to pay, directly or indirectly, for
medical treatments or procedures that they oppose on religious
grounds. This,  say the bishops , violates the Free Exercise Clause
of the First Amendment. The administration, although willing for
political reasons to seek some middle ground, plainly disagrees.
The case for requiring health insurance to pay for contraception
is a strong one, and I don’t share the bishops’ theological
objections. But as a matter of religious freedom, an issue about
which I care passionately, I am quite sure they are right.  What’s troubling about the controversy is not that HHS is
wrong -- every agency, alas, gets the Constitution wrong now and
then -- but the way that it is wrong. Fundamentally, the HHS
rules misconceive the separation of church and state; and getting
the separation right is one of the basic duties of government.  The separation of church and state is best understood as a
compromise between two great centers of authority. The term
appears nowhere in the Constitution, and Justice Stanley Reed was
quite correct when he  warned in 1948  that “a rule of law should
not be drawn from a figure of speech.” Yet the ideal of
separation has an unquestioned resonance in American public life,
and has had since before the nation was born.  Wall of Separation  Although the provenance of the wall of separation stretches
well back in Protestant theology, it was popularized in the New
World by the Baptist preacher Roger Williams, the founder of
 Rhode Island , who wrote of the garden and the wilderness,
separated by a high hedge wall. The garden was the place where
God’s people worked together to understand what the Lord required
of them. They were protected from the encroaching wilderness by
that hedge wall.  That is the point: The wall protects the garden from the
wilderness, not the other way around. With time, it is true, we
have come to see the wall constraining church as well as state,
and we as a nation are better for that understanding. But we
should not, in our historical confusion, imagine that the wall
was ever meant to hold back only the church, with the state free
to breach at whim.  The wall of separation is metaphorical. It has no clear
demarcation. For that reason, both parties to the compact do well
to steer very clear of anything close to a confrontation. That is
why the people of the garden should always be wary in lending
support, on theological grounds, to any particular piece of
legislation, for in doing so they turn theological claims of
justice into opportunities for state coercion -- a temptation all
too often irresistible to religious right and left alike.  But the present crisis has not arisen because the bishops
have overreached. They are not trying to forbid contraception to
those beyond their jurisdiction. They simply want to be free to
engage in the charitable acts their faith requires -- including
such acts as operating hospitals -- without being forced to pay
for procedures to which they have strong and long-standing
theological objections.  One might respond that operating a hospital is different
from holding a belief, and that the bishops are perfectly well
protected as long as they are merely preaching. The obvious
rejoinder is that HHS, too, could call upon employers to provide
contraception without forcing them to do so, and so stay safely
on its side of the wall of separation, for state as well as
church must respect the wall.  Words Versus Action  If the fact that allows the state to regulate is that the
bishops are acting rather than merely preaching, let us consider
the sex tax. To argue that religion is just belief is like
arguing that sex is just desire. If the state can ensnare the
religionists in its regulatory web once they cross the line from
words to action, surely the state should be able to regulate
those who choose to engage in sex rather than just dream about
it.  What religious freedom requires is that the state remain on
its side of the wall, absent the most compelling of
justifications for breach -- punishing violent crime, for
example. This principle should be honored across lines of party
and ideology.  The Constitution, with all those pesky rights and cumbersome
processes, often gets in the way of government action. But that
is exactly what the document is for. It slows us down, forces us
to rethink, forbids us to place our agenda above its guarantees.  You can think the HHS rule a wise one. You can think the
protests misguided. You can believe that the government should
indeed be able to command religious organizations to pay for
medical procedures for their employees, even when the religion
objects. You can believe all of that, and be a perfectly civic-
minded individual. What you cannot do is to believe all of that,
and also support the separation of church and state.  That is what worries me: On the evidence of this rule, it is
hard not to conclude that those who have written it do not,
fundamentally, understand the compromise on which the religion
clause of the First Amendment rests. If HHS regulators believe
that the wall of separation imprisons the church but allows the
state to decide where the boundaries lie, then negotiation would
be fruitless. So fundamental a misunderstanding of the
constitutional order should be corrected, and swiftly, by wiser
heads in the administration.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
next novel, “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln ,” will be
published in July. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for  this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 