-- As Labor Market Thaws, Don't Dismiss Your Gen X Talent
-- B y   S y l v i a   A n n   H e w l e t t
-- 2012-02-17T00:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/as-labor-market-thaws-don-t-dismiss-your-gen-x-talent.html
     Is the tide finally turning?  The Labor Department recently reported
that the number of Americans quitting their jobs has begun to rise.
Although the number is still quite low, it is a tentative sign
that labor market mobility, which had petrified during the
recession, has started to recover. Employers trusting a
stagnant economy to keep top talent from leaving would do well
to pay attention.  One particular demographic poised to jump
is Generation X. At just 46 million in the U.S., Gen X is
small compared to the 78 million Boomers and 70 million
Millennials, but they wield a disproportionate amount of
influence. Born between 1965 and 1978, they are the bench
strength for leadership, the skill bearers and knowledge
experts corporations will rely on to gain competitive
advantage in the coming decades. Approaching or already in
their prime of their careers, they are ready and willing to
lead.  Yet their career progress has been threatened by
leapfrogging Millennials and blocked by Boomers, who are
postponing retirement to bulk up recession-ravaged 401(k)s.
They had been promised the keys to the kingdom but are now in
danger of turning into the Prince Charles of the American
workforce: perpetual heirs apparent.  Unlike Prince Charles, though, Gen X'ers don't plan to
stick around and hope for the crown. A recent survey from
the Center for Talent Innovation (CTI) shows that 37% have
"one foot out the door" and are looking to leave their current
employers within the next three years.  With promotions only a scant possibility, what can
employers do to keep their talent engaged and on board? Here
are five options:  -Develop corporate chameleons. "Once I've learned my
job, I like to move on," says one X'er interviewed for the CTI
report. "I need something new to keep things fresh." To
prevent X'ers from feeling stalled and browning out, companies
are rotating promising employees through different functions
on a regular schedule. A Sibson Consulting survey (PDF) shows
that more than half of Fortune 500 companies say they've begun
shuffling potential leaders around to give them broad
experience.  -Let them learn. "I really like my company. It's a great
fit," says another X'er. "But having said that, if it's the
right thing, I'd jump. I won't stop learning or growing just
to have a job." That's why even in the middle of a
recession, smart companies are maintaining their
tuition-reimbursement programs, as well as instituting
mentoring and sponsorship programs that pair Boomer managers
with Gen X'ers.  -Bring them out of the shadows. Mentoring and sponsorship
programs serve another purpose: They match mid-level managers
with senior-level executives who can provide opportunities to
enrich their career experience. Placing Xers in charge of
high-visibility projects is also a way to spotlight their
abilities.  -Test their wings. Many X'ers would agree with one of
their cohort who declares, "I have an entrepreneurial spirit
that won't shut up." With many having been brought up as
latchkey kids, Gen X is highly self-reliant; today, 70% of
X'ers surveyed by CTI prefer to work independently, and 34%
aspire to be an entrepreneur. Why not let them test their
wings with a company-sponsored venture than risk having them
fly the coop?  -Promote partnerships. It's easy for X'ers to demonize
Boomer managers as intransigent dinosaurs and Gen Y
subordinates as self-aggrandizing upstarts. Break down the
barriers through intergenerational partnerships and teams.
Each cohort has its own strengths and gifts; sharing them will
enhance everyone's abilities.  Sylvia Ann Hewlett is president of the Center for
Talent Innovation and Sylvia Ann Hewlett Associates. She is
the author of 11
books, including Winning the War for Talent in  Emerging Markets .  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business.
 