-- Asian Refiners to Cut March West African Oil Imports by 13%
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-02-17T12:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/asian-refiners-to-cut-west-african-crude-imports-by-13-in-march.html
Asian refiners will cut their daily
imports of West African crude for loading in March by 13 percent
from an at least seven-month high in February, according to a
survey of six traders and an analysis of loading programs
obtained by Bloomberg News.  A total of 62 cargoes amounting to 57.9 million barrels, or
1.87 million barrels a day, will be exported from  Angola ,
Nigeria, the Republic of Congo,  Equatorial Guinea ,  Chad ,  Ghana ,
 Gabon  and Cameroon, according to the survey. The volume is less
than the 2.15 million barrels a day scheduled for this month,
the highest since at least August, and more than the average of
1.65 million barrels for the period from August to February.  Asian refiners have boosted their imports of West African
crude since the start of this year as lighter, low-sulfur, or
sweeter, blends in the Atlantic Basin became less expensive than
heavier, high-sulfur, or sour, grades in the  Middle East , as a
result of the resumption of Libyan production, refinery closures
in  Europe  and the U.S., and rising tension over  Iran , according
to Andrey Kryuchenkov, an analyst at VTB Capital in London.
Lighter crude yields more lucrative products such as diesel and
gasoline.  Purchases of March-loading West African are “only
marginally down from February,” Kryuchenkov said by e-mail
yesterday. “There is certainly a bit of seasonal lull as
well,” he said, referring to the refinery maintenance season in
the second quarter in  Asia .  Brent-Dubai Spread  The  Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps , which measures the
European benchmark against the Persian Gulf grade, reached a 14-
month low of $2.32 a barrel on Jan. 16, according to data from
PVM Oil Associates. It was at $4.28 today. Traders make more
profit from shipping West African crude to Asia when the spread
between the two contracts shrinks.  Chinese refiners bought 34 cargoes for loading in March,
three less than February, the survey showed. China International
United Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Unipec, cut its
purchases by four shipments from this month to 24, including one
lot each of Ghana’s Jubilee and Cameroon’s Kole grades.  India  will import 15 cargoes for March, down from 19 this
month, according to the survey.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s
largest refiner, bought nine shipments, three less than this
month, while  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , which owns the world’s
largest refining complex, boosted its purchases to four
consignments from two.  Indonesia ’s state-owned PT Pertamina also doubled its
purchases to four cargoes, including two shipments of Nigeria’s
benchmark Qua Iboe, the survey showed.  Japan’s Imports  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp.,  Japan ’s largest refiner,
bought two cargoes of Gabon’s Rabi Blend and one shipment of
Equatorial Guinea’s new Aseng grade, according to the survey.  Thailand ’s PTT Exploration & Production Pcl bought one
shipment of Angola’s Dalia crude and SK Innovation Co.,  South
Korea ’s biggest refiner, bought 350,000 barrels of Gabon’s
Mandji grade, the survey showed.  Qua Iboe (AFCSQUA1)  was at a premium of $2.60 a barrel to North Sea
Dated Brent yesterday, compared with an average of $2.74 in
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s largest oil producer, plans to export
2.12 million barrels a day of crude next month while Angola will
ship 1.61 million barrels, Bloomberg calculations based on
loading programs showed.  The following tables show details of planned Asian imports.
Most cargoes are for 950,000 to 1 million barrels. All the
volumes are in barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in  London  at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  