-- Asia Stocks Equal Record Win Streak as China Pledges Help on Europe Crisis
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-02-17T23:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/asia-stocks-equal-record-win-streak-as-china-pledges-help-on-europe-crisis.html
Asian  stocks  rose this week, with
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index equaling its longest streak of
advances, as China pledged to do more to help  Europe  cope with
the debt crisis and  Japan  boosted asset purchases.  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , the Hong Kong-listed operator of
Greece’s Piraeus port, climbed 4.1 percent. Chipmakers outside
Japan rallied after debt-laden Elpida Memory Inc. said it may
not survive. Reliance Power Ltd. jumped 19.7 percent, leading
Indian companies higher.  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , an
Australian surfwear maker, jumped 42 percent after receiving a
takeover bid from TPG Capital.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.7 percent to 126.95
this week, extending its winning streak to the longest since
December 2005. The gauge has advanced for nine consecutive weeks
only three previous times since 1988.  “It’s a distinct improvement from the fourth quarter last
year from the perspective of investor confidence and risk
appetite,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1
billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. “The
European news flow still seems to be determining the direction
of the markets. So, when there’s a bit of relief from the
European front, the markets can focus on fundamentals, which
seem to be improving by the day.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 4.9 percent, heading
for the biggest weekly gain since Dec. 2, as the yen fell
against all of its 16 major counterparts. A weaker yen boosts
the earnings of Japanese exporters overseas when repatriated.
The Bank of Japan surprised the market on Feb. 14, when it
expanded its government bond purchases.  China’s Economy  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 fell 1.2 percent, and South Korea’s
Kospi Index advanced 1.5 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
advanced 3.4 percent.  India ’s BSE Sensitive Index climbed 3.1
percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
 China ’s stock exchanges, trailed major regional gauges as
slumping foreign direct investment and trade data pointed to
further weakness in the world’s second-largest economy.  “The fundamentals of the economy aren’t good and monetary
policy will still be kept relatively tight this year,” said
 Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based chief investment officer at Jingxi
Investment Management Co., which manages about $120 million.
“But investors anticipate the government will have measures to
support equities. Stocks will be volatile for the moment.”  Europe Assistance  Asian stocks extended gains as People’s Bank of China
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said on Feb. 15 that China is ready to
be more involved in resolving the European crisis through the
European Financial Stability Facility and European Stability
Mechanism. Premier Wen Jiabao said on Feb. 14 that the nation is
willing to get “more deeply” involved.  Financial companies gained amid optimism Europe’s debt
crisis won’t throw the global financial system into disarray.  Germany , the biggest country contributor to euro-area
rescues, signaled yesterday that finance ministers may be ready
to back Greece’s second bailout in two years when they meet Feb.
20 in Brussels.  “The sense of worry is weakening slightly in markets
across the board,” said Hisakazu Amano, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $29 billion at T&D Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo .
“Expectations for a U.S. economic recovery are increasing and
the uncertainties on the European debt issues are subsiding.”  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group advanced 5.5 percent to 406
yen.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s biggest brokerage by market
value, rose 10 percent to 345 yen.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s
No. 1 lender, climbed 2 percent to HK$70.50.  Cosco, Esprit  Cosco Pacific rose 4.1 percent to HK$12.60.  Esprit Holdings
Ltd. (330) , a clothier that gets more than 80 percent of revenue from
Europe, climbed 5 percent to HK$15.02.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the Japanese
camera maker for whom Europe is the biggest market by sales,
added 4 percent.  Elpida touched its lowest price since listing in November
2004. The chipmaker slumped 16 percent to 310 yen after saying
it sees “uncertainty” over remaining in business because it
hasn’t secured financing. The company, which reported 311.7
billion yen ($3.97 billion) revenue in the 12 months to Dec. 31,
has 210.8 billion yen of debt maturing this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung Electronics Co., South Korea’s biggest exporter of
consumer electronics, rose 11 percent to 1.176 million won.
Samsung may separate its liquid-crystal-display business, the
Electronics Times reported Feb. 15. Hynix Semiconductor Inc., a
maker of semiconductors such as dynamic random access memory,
gained 6.9 percent to 28,850 won.  Billabong Buyout Bid  Billabong International jumped 42 percent to A$2.62 after
it received a takeover approach from buyout firm TPG Capital
valuing the company at A$765 million ($825 million). The
approach comes less than two months after the company started a
review of its capital structure amid a slump in earnings and
looming debt payments.  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR) , the Indian utility controlled by
billionaire Anil Ambani, led a rally among power and related
companies this week on the   MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  after Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh ordered additional supplies of coal to
the nation’s utilities.  Reliance Power rallied 19.7 percent this week, boosted by a
42 percent increase in third-quarter profit, the company said on
Feb. 13.  The government ordered Coal India Ltd., the world’s largest
producer of the commodity, on Feb. 15 to sign agreements to
supply power projects due to be completed by March 2015 and
import the fuel to overcome a shortfall in local production,
failing which it needs to pay fines. The move is expected to
ease a shortage of coal for generation plants.  Indian Companies Surge  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the biggest power-equipment
maker, jumped 16.5 percent to 303.55 this week, the second-best
performer on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB) , India’s fourth-largest lender by market
value, soared 14.3 percent this week.  Reliance Communications
Ltd. (RCOM) , the nation’s second-largest mobile-phone operator, climbed
10.7 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 11.5 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with an 8.2 percent advance by the
 S&P 500  and an 8.8 percent increase by the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 14.5 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.99 times for the Stoxx 600.  More than half of the companies listed in the Asia Pacific
index that have reported earnings since Jan. 9 missed analysts’
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Gentle in  Hong Kong  at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  