-- S&P 500 Nears Three-Year High on Optimism
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-02-17T21:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/asian-stocks-advance-set-for-ninth-weekly-gain-on-u-s-greece-outlook.html
U.S. stocks gained, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index approaching a three-year high, while
Treasuries fell and the euro strengthened amid optimism European
leaders will agree on terms for a second Greek bailout.  The  S&P 500  increased 0.2 percent to close at 1,361.23 at 4
p.m. in  New York  after coming within a quarter point of touching
a three-year high of 1,363.61 set in April. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  added 45.79 points to 12,949.87, the highest
closing level since May 2008. Ten-year Treasury yields climbed
one basis points to 2.00 percent. The euro increased 0.2 percent
to $1.3151, trimming a rally of as much as 0.5 percent amid
concern that a European Central Bank swap of Greek bonds may
trigger rating cuts. Oil settled at a nine-month high.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  expressed
confidence today that an agreement on the rescue can be reached
when euro-nation finance chiefs meet on Feb. 20 in Brussels. In
the U.S., the Conference Board’s index of leading economic
indicators rose in January and the cost of living climbed less
than forecast, pointing to sustained economic growth with
limited inflation pressure.  “The market is assuming a Greece deal,” Wayne Lin, a
 money manager  at Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc., said in a
telephone interview. His firm oversaw $631 billion as of Jan.
31. “I do believe they are getting a second bailout. My
assumption is that Greece will behave rationally.”  ‘Better Footing’  Consumer-discretionary, telephone and financial companies
climbed at least 0.6 percent for the biggest gains among  10
groups . Gauges of health-care, utility and technology companies
retreated.  U.S. stocks advanced yesterday, driving the  S&P 500  up 1.1
percent. The index rose 1.4 percent this week and is up 8.2
percent for the  year . A rise above 1,363.61 would take it to the
highest level since June 5, 2008, and may extend the rally,
according to Schaeffer’s Investment Research’s  Ryan Detrick . He
said the next target for the S&P 500 would be 1,440, the
intraday peak in  May 2008 .  “It would be a good sign that confidence is coming back,”
Detrick, senior technical strategist at Schaeffer’s, said in a
telephone interview from Cincinnati. “People are realizing that
things are on much better footing and that should lead to higher
equity prices.”  U.S. Movers  H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ)  gained 4.6 percent as earnings at the
world’s biggest ketchup maker beat projections. Gilead Sciences
Inc., which bought Pharmasset Inc. for $10.8 billion last year
to gain an experimental hepatitis C drug, dropped 14 percent as
some patients on the medicine relapsed after stopping therapy.
General Mills Inc., the maker of Cheerios cereal and Yoplait
yogurt, slumped 3.6 percent after cutting its profit forecast.  The consumer-price index rose 0.2 percent in January after
no change, the Labor Department said today. The 0.4 percent
increase in the Conference Board’s leading economic indicators,
a gauge of the outlook for the next three to six months,
followed a 0.5 percent rise in December, the strongest back-to-
back gains in almost a year.  “The fact that the index has been up four months in a row,
and we’ve had solid increases, it does suggest that the economic
momentum continues at a moderate pace,” Kathleen Bostjancic,
director of macro analysis at The Conference Board, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “It does look as if those
recession fears we had in August and September are far behind
us.”  Euro Strengthens  The euro strengthened versus 10 of 16 major peers, climbing
more than 0.5 percent versus the Australian dollar and Japanese
yen. The shared currency trimmed its weekly decline against the
dollar to 0.4 percent. The dollar weakened against 14 of 16
counterparts. Thirty-year Treasuries also fell, sending yields
up one basis point to 3.15 percent.  In European bond markets, Italian and Spanish 10-year
yields decreased more than seven basis points. Yields on U.K.,
French and German bonds increased.  Greece ’s 10-year rate added 1
percentage point to 34.38 percent, the highest in more than a
month.  The Greek government is drawing up legislation that could
be used to impose losses on investors who don’t support the debt
swap that’s part of the country’s bailout, said two euro-region
officials familiar with the situation. The law may be introduced
to parliament in  Athens  in the coming days, said one of the
officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are confidential.  Collective Action Clause  Euro region finance ministers are prepared to back the use
of so-called collective action clauses if a voluntary debt swap
doesn’t draw enough participation, the other person said. The
ECB is swapping its Greek bonds for new ones to ensure it isn’t
forced to take losses in a debt restructuring, three euro-area
officials said.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.6 percent today to
the highest level since July.  Aker Solutions ASA (AKSO)  surged 21
percent as  Norway ’s biggest oil-platform maker reported net
income that topped estimates.  Lafarge SA (LG)  jumped 8.3 percent
after the world’s largest cement maker posted better-than-
expected operating profit and unveiled a 400 million-euro ($525
million) cost-cutting plan.  Oil in New York climbed 0.9 percent to $103.24 a barrel.
Natural gas rallied 4.6 percent after  Encana Corp. (ECA)  said it will
scale back production following a slump in prices. Wheat and
lead climbed more than 1.4 percent as 14 of 24 commodities in
the S&P GSCI Index advanced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  