-- Asia Currencies Gain as Greece, Improved U.S. Economic Data Buoys Optimism
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-02-17T21:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/asian-currencies-rebound-from-weekly-drop-on-greece-u-s-data.html
Asian currencies gained yesterday,
rebounding from a decline earlier in the week, as improved U.S.
economic data and optimism  Greece  will secure a second bailout
buoyed demand for emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar  Index (ADXY)  rose 0.1 percent
in the week as a report showed jobless claims in the world’s
largest economy fell to a four-year low. European governments
are considering steps including interest-rate cuts on emergency
loans to Greece as part of a rescue package, two people familiar
with the talks said on Feb. 16. The gauge for regional
currencies lost as much as 0.3 percent earlier in the week after
euro-area finance ministers delayed a decision on the second
bailout for  Athens .  “The Greek situation was fragile earlier this week and
that gave investors selling opportunities,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the Asian and emerging-markets team at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Ultimately,  Europe  won’t
let Greece default and will probably provide a second bailout.
Funds will continue to flow into Asia and regional currencies
will remain on a gradual appreciation trend.”  Malaysia’s ringgit jumped 0.8 percent yesterday to 3.0363
per dollar, erasing the week’s losses, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The South Korean won climbed 0.6 percent
yesterday to 1,125.50 and  Indonesia ’s rupiah rose 0.5 percent to
9,046, both trimming the week’s losses to 0.2 percent.  Wrangling among euro-area finance ministers on a Feb. 15
conference call over how to reduce Greece’s debt load and
tighten control of the aid raised the prospect of a two-step
process, according to two people familiar with the talks. In
that scenario, the ministers’ Feb. 20 gathering in Brussels
would be limited to kicking off the bond exchange and deferring
decision on the rest of the bailout funds.  U.S. Data  The won climbed the most in more than two weeks yesterday
after official data showed on Feb. 16 that Americans filed the
fewest claims for jobless benefits since March 2008 in the week
ended Feb. 11, while housing starts rose in January at a faster
pace than economists expected.  “Interpretations about the Greek situation have changed
again to a more positive view, and improved data in the U.S. are
also supporting sentiment,” said Hwang Sun Min, a Seoul-based
currency dealer at Kookmin Bank. “Investors may refrain from
taking strong positions at the end of the week.”  The ringgit dropped for a second week after data on Feb. 15
showed economic growth last year slowed to 5.1 percent from 7.2
percent in 2010. Singapore reported the following day its
economy shrank an annualized 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter
of 2011 from the previous three months, less than an initial
estimate of a 4.9 percent decline. The island-state is
 Malaysia ’s second-largest export market.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso weakened 0.3 percent this
week to 42.628 per dollar, Taiwan’s dollar declined 0.1 percent
to NT$29.583 and  China ’s yuan ended little changed at 6.2991,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thailand ’s baht added
0.2 percent from a week ago to 30.78 and  India ’s rupee climbed
0.3 percent to 49.275.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  