-- Astonishing ‘Blood Knot’; Shatner Phones It In; ‘CQ/CX’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/astonishing-blood-knot-shatner-phones-it-in-cq-cx-review.html
It’s hard to decide which is more
thrilling: the harrowing revival of Athol Fugard’s powerful
“Blood Knot,” staged by the 79-year-old author. Or the arrival
of the  Pershing Square Signature Center , a spectacular three-
theater complex that “Blood Knot” inaugurates.  The play concerns two brothers living together in a  Port
Elizabeth  shantytown in 1961, at the height of apartheid rule in
 South Africa . Morris is light-skinned enough to pass as white.
Zachariah is ebony.  When Zach returns home from work each day as a guard at a
whites-only park, Morris is there to bathe his ruined feet in
Epsom salts and listen as his brother yearns for the normalcy of
a different life, with the comforts of home and the love of a
woman.  It’s not until Zach, against Morris’s stern admonition,
commences a pen-pal relationship with a woman who turns out to
be white, that we realize how horrifyingly dangerous such
yearnings can be in a society that grants its majority
population less freedom than animals.  Seismic Poignancy  The symbiosis that Scott Shepherd’s Morris and Colman
Domingo’s Zach achieve has a seismic poignancy, building as we
watch both the angels and the demons in their blood work their
way through to the surface. No surprise that Fugard has only
refined the swells and lulls of this sometimes bleakly comic
drama, or that he has limned it with such a gently insinuating
soundscape by Doug Wieselman.  Christopher Barreca’s memorably squalid setting -- a
shredded mattress serves as one wall, corrugated tin another --
is meticulously lit by Stephen Strawbridge, and Susan Hilferty’s
worn costumes remove any glimmer of hope we might imagine for
these impoverished siblings.  In addition to the theaters, the inviting Frank Gehry-
designed center has a free-flowing public space that includes a
cafe and bookstore; it’s brilliant. “Blood Knot” is in the
Alice Griffin Jewel Box Theatre. Jewel box really can’t be
topped as a description for this intimate, enchanting room.
(Jeremy Gerard)  Through March 11 at 480 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-
244-7529;  http://www.signaturetheatre.org . Rating: ****  ‘Shatner’s World’  Early in William Shatner’s one-man show on Broadway, he
describes understudying  Christopher Plummer  at the  Stratford
Shakespeare Festival. When Plummer fell ill, a young, ambitious
but unrehearsed Shatner stepped into the demanding role of Henry
V.  The same industry isn’t apparent in “Shatner’s World: We
Just Live in It.” Affability and comic timing go only so far in
this 95-minute, inch-deep, survey of his nearly 81 adventure-
filled years.  Even the opening is anti-climactic, as a beam of light
appears and we hear the sound of a  “Star Trek”  transporter as
he announces offstage that he won’t be beaming in. He walks on
instead.  Wearing blue jeans, white shirt, gray vest and dark jacket,
Shatner looks swell as he punctuates his life story -- from
middle-class kid in  Montreal  to TV star to Internet pitchman and
recorded-word performer -- with Borscht Belt humor.  Film and TV clips projected on a large round screen are
funnier than anything onstage. One thoughtful touch: Purchasers
of $251.50 premium seats are invited to meet Shatner after the
performance. I bet he’s good company. (Philip Boroff)  Through March 4 at the Music Box Theatre, 239 W. 45th St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating:
**  ‘CQ/CX’  Playwright Gabe McKinley briefly worked at  The New York
Times (NYT) , and his family has sent several venerable bylines to the
“newspaper of record.” So it’s comforting to report that
“CQ/CX” accurately recounts the essential facts of a scandal
that reached into the paper’s highest ranks.  Jayson Blair was an ambitious young reporter who filed
dramatic stories and caught the attention of higher ups
interested in promoting talent from diverse backgrounds. Blair
is black.  Only his immediate editor began to suspect that Blair’s
work was too good to be true. It wasn’t until way too late that
executive editor Howell Raines (who is white) and managing
editor Gerald Boyd (who was black) realized that Blair’s stories
-- hundreds of them -- were fiction. Both editors were soon gone
from the Times’s hallowed halls.  Getting the story right does not compelling drama make.
McKinley represents the Timesmen’s bombast and grandiosity
without getting under the skin where their vulnerabilities lay.
I kept wondering who could possibly be interested in two hours
of inside baseball.  Every journalist knows you can get the facts right but the
story wrong. The first clue that McKinley might just be writing
for friends and family is in his title: Those letters refer to
proofreaders’ marks, “CQ” meaning that a fact has been checked
and should not be changed; “CX” meaning “Oops.” “CQ/CX” is
both. (Gerard)  Through March 11 at 555 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-
279-4200; http//www.ticketcentral.com. Rating: *1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 