-- Latvia’s Russian Speakers Seek Local Support in Language Vote
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-02-17T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/latvia-s-russian-speakers-seek-local-support-in-language-vote.html
Latvians vote tomorrow on whether to
make Russian a second official language, in a referendum that
needs the support of more than 350,000 of the Baltic nation’s
non-Russian speakers to pass.  Half of  Latvia ’s 1.5 million voters must back the
initiative, which was proposed by the Dzimta Valoda movement
that promotes the use of Russian. Polling will take place from
7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. in 1,350 precincts, with the Central
Election Commission to release preliminary results throughout
the day.  A party that appeals to the country’s Russian minority won
the most votes at snap parliamentary elections in September.
Still, it was excluded from the ruling coalition, which formed a
majority government the following month and includes a Latvian
nationalist party. Latvia has about 413,000 citizens who are
ethnic Russian, Belarusian and Ukrainian, according to the
 Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs .  Latvians will probably reject the language proposal and
Russian speakers number too few to approve it on their own,  Nils Muiznieks , a political scientist at the University of Latvia,
said yesterday by phone. The referendum “touches an old
psychological wound among Latvians who were traumatized by
Soviet language policy, which basically granted a privileged
status for Russian,” he said.  Soviet Rule  Latvia regained independence from the  Soviet Union  in 1991.
Most native Russian speakers were settled in the country by the
Soviet leadership after World War II, replacing Latvians who
died during Nazi and Soviet occupation, were deported, or fled
to the West. The Russian community is about 600,000, many of
whom haven’t been granted citizenship.  Harmony Center, which has never been represented in
government, won 31 of the legislature’s 100 seats in September’s
election. Former President Valdis Zatlers’s party took 22, Unity
received 20 and the nationalist  National Alliance  got 14. Those
three teamed up on Oct. 25 to form a coalition government that
shut out Harmony.  Leaving Harmony out “generated a lot of disappointment,
alienation and anger,” said Muiznieks, who will take over as
the Council of  Europe ’s  Human Rights Commissioner  in April. He
plans to vote against installing Russian as a second language.  The referendum was triggered following a petition by Dzimta
Valoda’s Vladimir Linderman, a former member of  Russia ’s
National Bolshevik party, who garnered tens of thousands of
signatures in a petition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  