-- Michigan Boom Haunts GOP Bailout Foes Before Primary
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-02-17T20:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/auto-recovery-defines-terms-of-engagement-for-michigan-primary.html
Don’t tell Tracey Harmon that the
$82 billion federal auto bailout was a bad idea.  Harmon and her sister moved from Ohio in the past two years
to work at Chrysler Group LLC plants in  Michigan (STOMI1)  after President
Barack Obama completed the rescue of the company and  General
Motors Co. (GM)   “That saved a lot of jobs,” Harmon, 40, said during lunch
at a restaurant near the  Sterling Heights  Assembly Plant, where
she puts together doors for the Chrysler 200. Before the
bailout, the plant had been scheduled to close.  In a state where making cars determines economic health,
auto factories are humming, unemployment is dropping and
Republican presidential candidates are bringing this message to
voters in their Feb. 28 primary: Government has done you wrong.  Mitt Romney ,  Rick Santorum ,  Newt Gingrich  and  Ron Paul  may
have a tough sale to make in  Macomb County . It’s home to the
16,000-job GM Technical Center, and 155 car plants and parts
suppliers with least 38,000 jobs, according to county officials.  Yesterday, GM said it earned $9.19 billion last year, the
largest profit in its 103-year history, and regained its
position as the world’s top-selling automaker. The near-death
and revival of the industry is the backdrop for a Republican
campaign that’s hammered at big government.  No Loans, Please  “I will vote for the most conservative, electable
candidate,” said Brian Pannebecker, a 52-year-old who works at
a  Ford Motor Co. (F)  parts plant in Sterling Heights. He called
himself a union conservative and Tea Party follower who opposes
government loans on principle. He also said that the federally
assisted rebirth of GM and Chrysler helped his state.  During the 18-month recession that began in December 2007,
the worst since the Great Depression, Michigan’s economy fared
worse than most of the nation’s. Its  9.3 percent  unemployment
rate in December compares with a peak of 14.1 percent in August
2009, a month when the  national rate  was 9.6 percent.  Last year, Michigan gained 66,000 net jobs, the first
increase since the turn of the century, according to a Jan. 13
state report. The University of  Michigan ’s Research Seminar in
Quantitative Economics predicts a net rise of 101,300 by 2015.  About 135,000 Michiganders will work for the three major
U.S. automakers by 2015, after bottoming at 102,000 in 2009,
according to  Ann Arbor ’s Center for Automotive Research.  Net Required  Those numbers carry weight in Macomb County, which abuts
 Detroit ’s northeast border and where Obama won by 8 percentage
points in 2008. Its population of 841,000 has a median household
income of $54,000, according to the  U.S. Census .  Macomb voters don’t despise government, though they’re wary
of how it spends money, said Ed Sarpolus, 58, a Lansing-based
political consultant.  “You can’t go into Macomb and just call Democrats tax-and-
spenders unless you have solutions to protect them with the
safety net,” Sarpolus said.  A survey of Michigan voters this week showed that 52
percent support the auto bailout and 53 percent said Obama’s
leadership had been good for the state economy, according to
Public Policy Polling in Raleigh,  North Carolina .  Michigan’s economic health dropped 1.3 percent after Obama
took office in January 2009 through the third quarter of last
year, although that decline was second mildest among states, the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States shows. Michigan improved
faster than all states except  North Dakota  between the third
quarters of 2010 and 2011.  ‘Crony Capitalism’  Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  has said the rescue
probably prevented an economic meltdown in Michigan that would
have shut down the national automotive supply chain.  All the Republican presidential candidates opposed it.  Romney in 2008 said a bailout would mean “you can kiss the
American automotive industry goodbye.” In a Feb. 14 guest
editorial in the  Detroit News , he said Obama’s program was
“crony capitalism on a grand scale.”  The  auto industry  would have been as well off or better
without government help, Santorum told the Detroit Economic Club
yesterday.  The bailout started in the last Republican presidency.
President  George W. Bush ’s administration provided loans to GM
and Chrysler starting with $4 billion to each company in
December 2008 and January 2009. Bush eventually provided $17.4
billion to the automakers before  Barack Obama ’s administration
expanded the rescue of the companies to $62 billion. More money
went to  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , formerly known as GMAC Inc., and to
suppliers.  Yearning for Christie  The moves saved more than 1.4 million jobs and $96 billion
in personal income nationwide, according to a November 2010
report by the Center for Automotive Research.  Many Republicans didn’t support the rescue because it hurt
GM bondholders in favor of the United Auto Workers union, said
Republican state Representative Pete Lund of Macomb County.  County resident John Lankston, 68, said he opposed the
bailout and that GM -- perhaps not Chrysler -- would have
survived without it. Still, Lankston, a retired hospital
executive, said he doesn’t like any of the Republican
candidates. He wants New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  to enter
the race.  “He seems to be very straightforward and he really doesn’t
hold anything back,” Lankston said.  In hypothetical matchups, Santorum trailed Obama by 11
percentage points and Romney trailed the president by 16,
according to the Public Policy Polling survey. The company
surveyed 560 voters from Feb. 10 to Feb. 12 and said the poll
had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.  Meet the People  Lisa Lauretti, co-owner of The Pantry Restaurant, said
saving Chrysler, which is majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F)  and has
four plants in the county, was an obvious benefit to a business
her father opened 34 years ago. Now, her top concern is for the
government to help homeowners facing foreclosure.  Lauretti, 51, said her father was a staunch Republican.
She’s more independent, having voted for Obama. She said she’s
open to change in the White House, though she doesn’t care for
any of the Republican candidates and is repelled when they
attack one another.  Britni Gibbons, 20, of Macomb Township, plans to vote in
her first presidential election this year. She doesn’t see much
improvement in the economy. She is pursuing a degree in
criminology and said financial aid is difficult to obtain.  “I worry about where I’m going to be in five years,”
Gibbons said. “Am I going to be done with school, and am I
going to have a secure, stable job?”  A president must show one quality above all, she said: “I
want them to be interested in the working class. That’s a lot of
people in America. He should know what they have to do to make
ends meet every day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  