-- Lawmakers Seek Audit of Navy Carrier’s Costs
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-02-17T05:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/lawmakers-seek-audit-of-navy-carrier-s-costs.html
Leaders of the Senate Armed Services
Committee asked Congress’s auditing agency to investigate the
rising cost of the  aircraft carrier  USS Gerald R. Ford, the
Navy’s most expensive warship.  Committee Chairman  Carl Levin  and Senator  John McCain , the
panel’s senior Republican, asked the Government Accountability
Office in a letter yesterday to review the $40.3 billion program
to build three carriers. They cited increasing cost overruns for
the Ford, or CVN-78, the first of the ships.  “Despite a significant upfront investment in research and
development as well as design and construction preparation, the
cost of the CVN-78 construction has grown to over $12.3 billion
-- an increase of more than 10 percent compared with initial
estimates for the ship,” Levin, a Michigan Democrat, and McCain
of  Arizona  wrote in the letter seeking the inquiry.  The estimated cost increase exceeds by about $500 million a
congressionally imposed cap on the initial carrier, which
“should force the Navy to terminate the contract, modify the
ship’s planned capabilities or ask for legislative relief” from
the cap, they wrote.  The Ford is scheduled for delivery in September 2015.  “Cost increases of this magnitude may have far-reaching
consequences” on the Navy’s ability “to execute the rest of
its shipbuilding plan,” the senators wrote. The GAO published
its last full report on the CVN-78 in August 2007.  Navy spokeswoman Captain Cate Mueller declined to comment
on the letter.  Huntington Ingalls  The Ford is being built by  Huntington Ingalls Industries
Inc. (HII)  under a “cost-plus, incentive-fee” contract in which the
Navy pays for most of the overruns.  Even so, the service’s efforts to control costs are putting
the company’s $579.2 million profit at risk, according to the
Navy. The Navy said Huntington Ingalls of  Newport News ,
 Virginia , is being docked millions of dollars in profit because
of the cost overrun. It didn’t disclose Huntington’s share.  Huntington Ingalls is continuing “to see improvements in
our performance” on the carrier, Beci Brenton, a spokeswoman
for the company, said in an e-mail this week.  Documents submitted this week with the Pentagon’s fiscal
2013 budget proposal indicate that the Navy’s cost estimate for
the second carrier in the group, the  John F. Kennedy , has also
grown about 12 percent in the last year to $11.4 billion from
$10.2 billion.  Kennedy Delay  The Navy has stretched construction of the Kennedy by two
years, with a design and construction contract to be awarded in
2013.  “It would be helpful to know what portion” of the JFK
cost growth “is due to added inflation being incorporated into
the ship’s cost as a consequence of the apparent two-year
stretch-out in the ship’s construction schedule, and what
portion is due to other causes,” said Ronald O’Rourke, naval
analyst for the non-partisan  Congressional Research Service ,
said in an e-mail.  Separately, the development contract held by General
Atomics for the electro-magnetic aircraft launch system to be
used on all three carriers has risen at least $289 million, to
$435 million, in three cost increases since the initial contract
award in 2004, according to Navy figures.  The Navy received a fourth cost overrun estimate from San
Diego-based General Atomics in May that the service continues to
assess, Naval Air Systems Command spokesman Rob Koon said in an
e-mail.  General Atomics spokeswoman Nancy Hitchcox didn’t
immediately return an e-mail requesting comment.  $811 Million Increase  The Navy said this week that it increased the cost of the
Huntington Ingalls design and construction contract for the Ford
by $811 million, or about 16 percent, over its $5.16 billion
target price.  The Navy said in budget documents that it will add $449
million in fiscal 2014 and $362 million in 2015 to cover the
overrun.  In addition to the Huntington Ingalls design and
construction contract, the ship’s cost includes assembly, the
electro-magnetic aircraft launch system, government-furnished
equipment such as its nuclear reactor and Raytheon Co.’s dual-
band radar for aircraft search and tracking.  An additional $3.7 billion is for research that applies to
all three vessels in the class, the Navy said.  Levin and McCain asked the GAO to assess the likelihood for
the discovery of deficiencies requiring critical redesigns.  The  Congressional Budget Office  wrote in a June report that
the greatest cost increases typically occur when a ship is more
than half-finished. The Ford design contract is about 42 percent
complete.  Huntington Ingalls became a separate company last year when
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  spun off its shipbuilding unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  