-- Baidu Sees Strong Growth in Demand for Mobile Search in China, CEO Li Says
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-02-17T04:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/baidu-sees-strong-growth-in-services-for-mobile-users-ceo-says.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of  China ’s
dominant search engine, expects strong growth in demand for its
mobile services this year, after computer-based operations drove
a better-than-expected increase in fourth-quarter profit.  China’s mobile Internet market is growing at an
“astonishing pace,” Chief Executive Officer Robin Li said on a
conference call today. Baidu will step up efforts in generating
sales from mobile services, which make up a small percentage of
revenue at present, he said.  Baidu’s stock rose in extended trading after the company
yesterday reported  net income  climbed 77 percent, boosted by a
surge in advertising sales. The Beijing-based company plans to
generate more sales from social-media services  and is seeking
“long-term international opportunities,” Li said today.  About 15 percent of the search queries handled by Baidu now
come from mobile users, Li said. The chief executive didn’t
provide targeted revenue figures for mobile services.  Baidu’s American depositary receipts, each representing 0.1
share,  advanced  2.5 percent to $141.83 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market yesterday before the earnings announcement, and gained 1
percent to $143.25 in extended trading.  Fourth-quarter net income climbed to 2.05 billion yuan
($325 million), or 5.87 yuan per ADR, from 1.16 billion yuan, or
3.32 yuan, a year earlier, Baidu said in a statement. That
exceeded the 2 billion-yuan average of 10  analyst estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Keyword Advertising  Revenue, almost all from online sales, jumped 83 percent to
4.47 billion yuan in the quarter ended Dec. 31. Advertisers
increased spending to buy keywords as Baidu extended its lead
over  Google (GOOG)  Inc. in China.  First-quarter revenue will  increase  as much as 78 percent,
to between 4.2 billion yuan and 4.33 billion yuan, Baidu
forecast. Analysts project sales of 4.23 billion yuan, according
to the average of 10 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company  accounted for 78.3 percent of China’s search-
engine market by revenue last quarter, rising from 78.2 percent
in the previous three months, according to Analysys
International. Google’s share dropped to 16.7 percent from 17.2
percent, the research company said.  Google has been losing ground in China’s search-engine
market since January 2010, when the  Mountain View , California-
based company said it was no longer willing to comply with
Chinese regulation to self-censor Web content. Two months later,
Google shut its Google.cn service and redirected Chinese users
to its site in  Hong Kong .  Robin Li is China’s second-richest man with a fortune of
$9.2 billion, according to Forbes  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  