-- Baidu Profit Tops Estimates Amid Higher Ad Spending in China
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-02-17T00:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/baidu-fourth-quarter-profit-tops-estimates-on-higher-ad-spending-in-china.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of China’s
dominant search engine, reported fourth-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ predictions as companies boosted spending on
online advertising to reach users in the top Internet market.  Profit excluding certain items was 95 cents per American
depositary receipt, compared with 90 cents, the average estimate
of  analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg. Net income climbed 77 percent
to 2.05 billion yuan ($326.3 million), or 5.87 yuan per ADR,
from 1.16 billion yuan, or 3.32 yuan, a year earlier, Baidu said
today in a statement. That exceeded the 2 billion yuan average
of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue jumped
83 percent to 4.47 billion yuan.  Advertisers increased spending to buy keywords as Baidu
extended its lead over  Google Inc. (GOOG)  In China, where Beijing-based
Baidu says it handles more than 80 percent of search queries,
Chief Executive Officer Robin Li is expanding the company in
services aimed at smartphone users and investing in video and
music content to compete with Internet rivals including  Tencent
Holdings Ltd. (700)   “The average spending for advertisers have been growing
very quickly,” Dundas Deng, who rates Baidu “accumulate” at
Guotai Junan Securities in Shenzhen, said before the earnings
were released. The company has been upgrading its advertising
system, known as Phoenix Nest, to boost sales of keywords, he
said.  Sales Forecast  Baidu rose 2.5 percent in Nasdaq Stock Market trading today
before the earnings announcement. The stock has gained 22
percent this year, compared with the 28 percent gain in the Hong
Kong-traded shares of Tencent,  China ’s biggest online-games
company, and the 32 percent advance in  Sina Corp. (SINA)  (SINA), operator of
the Twitter-like Weibo microblogging service.  Revenue is expected to rise to within a range of 4.2
billion yuan to 4.33 billion yuan in the first quarter, Baidu
said. That compares with the 4.26 billion yuan average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company  accounted for 78.3 percent of China’s search-
engine market by revenue last quarter, rising from 78.2 percent
in the previous three months, according to research company
Analysys International. Google’s share dropped to 16.7 percent
from 17.2 percent, the researcher said.  Google has been losing ground in China’s search-engine
market since January 2010, when the  Mountain View , California-
based company said it was no longer willing to comply with
Chinese regulation to self-censor Web content. Two months later,
Google shut its Google.cn service and redirected Chinese users
to its site in  Hong Kong .  Robin Li is China’s second-richest man.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  