-- Ballymore Project Approved Next to Future London U.S. Embassy
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-02-17T10:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/ballymore-project-approved-next-to-future-london-u-s-embassy.html
Ballymore Group Ltd. won approval
from Wandsworth Council for a plan to turn a former DHL depot
and adjoining land into almost 2,000 homes at a site near
Battersea Power Station in  London .  The development was approved by the council’s planning
committee last night, Ballymore director Paul Keogh, said by e-
mail.  A total of 1,626 to 1,982 apartments may be built, as well
as well as shops, a car showroom, a 100-bed hotel and offices,
according to the planning application. The site is known as
 Embassy Gardens  and will be developed next to a five-acre plot
sold to the U.S. in 2009 for a new embassy.  Ernst & Young, the administrators appointed to companies
that control Battersea Power Station, had objected to the retail
element of the Embassy Gardens development, saying it
represented a “real and significant threat to the future
viability and ultimate delivery” of the plan to redevelop the
derelict station.  Battersea was put into administration by creditors led by
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency in December. That site is expected to be put on the
market in the first quarter of this year, according to a
statement in January from the administrator.  NAMA wrote to the council saying it supported Ballymore’s
plan and believed that Ernst & Young’s objections were
commercially “misguided,” according to a  document  circulated
by the council before the vote.  Ballymore is owned by Irish businessman Sean Mulryan.
 Canary Wharf Group (CWG)  bought it out of the Wood Wharf site in
London’s docklands last month for 38 million pounds in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 