-- Bank of America Said to Warn Investment Bank Equities Unit of Staff Cuts
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-02-17T20:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/bank-of-america-said-to-warn-investment-bank-equities-unit-of-staff-cuts.html
Bank of America Corp. , the U.S.
lender seeking to trim costs in  investment banking , told
equities-unit employees to expect targeted dismissals next
month, said two people with knowledge of the message.  The firm started to inform workers this week of reductions
scheduled for about March 15, said the people, who asked for
anonymity because the communications are private. Managers told
employees the number of  jobs  affected wasn’t final yet, and that
the dismissals were meant to free room to hire outsiders while
leaving headcount almost unchanged, the people said.  “This reinforces that the equities business continues to
be under significant pressure,” said Richard Lipstein, a
managing director for Boyden Global Executive Search in New
York. “By hiring in spots, they could be trying to increase
their focus in specific areas or getting people who are
considered better performers.”  Wall Street firms have reduced staff and pay after revenue
slumped from trading and underwriting equities and debt last
year. The latest firings at Bank of America’s global banking and
markets division aren’t part of Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s efficiency plan, which seeks to cut as much as
$8 billion in annual costs, said the people.  Improved Performance  Employees were told this week that results improved from
the beginning of the year, said one of the people. In the fourth
quarter, equities sales and trading revenue dropped 16 percent
to $660 million. The global banking and markets unit, run by co-
chief operating officer Thomas K. Montag, posted a $433 million
loss in the fourth quarter.  “Tom and his team don’t aspire to lose money in trading,”
Moynihan, 52, told employees in a Jan. 19 staff meeting.  Moynihan said last month that he’ll trim as much as
$3 billion in expenses from investment and commercial banking,
trading and  wealth management . That phase, scheduled to be
complete in April, will probably include more dismissals at the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender.  Kerrie McHugh, a Bank of America spokeswoman, said she
couldn’t comment. Financial firms around the world have
disclosed plans to eliminate more than 200,000 jobs.  Executives told the company’s investment bankers last month
to expect compensation averaging 25 percent less than last year,
people with knowledge of the discussions said. Instead of cash,
employees were awarded about $1 billion of their year-end pay in
Bank of America shares that can be sold starting this week.  Bank of America lost market share last year to rivals
including Morgan Stanley in the trading of equities, bonds,
currencies and commodities, Matthew O’Connor, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in a Jan. 19 research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  