-- Bankrupt Banker Drumm’s Mansion Offers Marble, Chandeliers, Irish Payback
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-02-17T07:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/bankrupt-banker-drumm-s-mansion-offers-marble-chandeliers-irish-payback.html
Anglo Irish Bank Corp.’s (ANGL)  failure
helped push Ireland to the brink of insolvency. Now, the country
may get some payback as the six-bedroom mansion belonging to the
lender’s bankrupt former chief executive, David Drumm, goes on
sale.  The Regency style, double-fronted house in an affluent
Dublin suburb is being sold on behalf of the trustee appointed
by a U.S. bankruptcy court to wring as much as possible out of
Drumm’s property to pay creditors, including now government-
owned  Anglo Irish . Drumm, 55, filed for Chapter 7 protection in
Boston 15 months ago, citing $14.2 million owed to creditors and
assets valued at $13.9 million.  Anglo Irish, renamed the Irish Bank Resolution Corp.,
claims Drumm owes it about 8 million euros ($10.5 million).
Ireland has spent about 30 billion euros bailing out the bank,
which was nationalized in January 2009 after the real-estate
market imploded. Though Drumm left for the U.S. as things fell
apart, his three-story, 5,167-square-foot (480-square-meter)
house remained well kept.  “The house is in very good condition as it was well
minded,” said Simon Stokes, a director at North’s Property,
which is offering the house for 1.65 million-euros. The property
has been shown to 15 or 20 potential buyers since North’s put it
on the market last month, he said.  The rise and fall of Drumm and Anglo Irish mirrors the
country’s. Under the stewardship of Drumm and former Chairman
 Sean Fitzpatrick , Anglo Irish bankrolled many of the property
developers behind the Celtic Tiger boom that drove economic
growth to an average 6 percent in the first half of the 2000s.  Coastal Village  Anglo Irish’s strategy unraveled as credit evaporated in
the wake of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s bankruptcy in
September 2008. Drumm resigned three months later and
subsequently left for the U.S., leaving behind the house near
the coastal village of Malahide.  Malahide, with its marina and chic boutiques, is one of
Ireland’s wealthiest towns. Georgina Byrne, daughter of former
Irish Prime Minister  Bertie Ahern  lives in the area with her pop
star husband Nicky Byrne of Westlife. U2 guitarist David Howell Evans, better known as The Edge, and the group’s bassist Adam Clayton went to primary school there.  The ground floor drawing room includes two small
chandeliers, and features wood flooring and a marble fireplace.
There’s a large 12-light crystal chandelier in the main
reception room leading to a long, winding timber staircase that
runs to six bedrooms on the second and third stories, each with
wood floors heated from underneath. The house comes with three
reception rooms, a tiled kitchen with a marble worktop and a so-
called Belfast sink and four bathrooms.  Golf Trolley  Those looking for signs of the Drumms may be left
disappointed. Aside from some children’s toys and a Powakaddy
golf trolley left in the detached double-garage, there are few
to be found.  Off the ground floor drawing room is a study with a
fireplace and library-style shelving. Empty unmarked folders
fill an unlocked filing cabinet.  Stokes said he’s optimistic about getting the offer price
for the house, even in “slow market,” saying that not
everybody lost out in the Irish property bubble. The former
ownership of the property “is not something that people have
raised when looking at it,” he said.  “I see houses being sold at over 1 million euros all the
time,” Stokes said. “There are people out there who have cash
reserves and who sold when the market was stronger.”  Banking Crisis  Ireland, however, is still trying to clean up the mess left
by Anglo Irish. The country was forced to seek a bailout from
the European Union,  International Monetary Fund  and  European
Central Bank  in 2010 as its banking crisis became too big to
handle alone.  Police are investigating the circumstances behind Anglo
Irish’s collapse, though no one has been charged and Drumm
denies wrongdoing. The bank is suing him in the U.S. in
connection with money he allegedly borrowed from it.  Francis C. Morrissey of Morrissey, Wilson, & Zafiropoulos,
LLP, Drumm’s bankruptcy lawyer, declined to comment.  The bankruptcy trustee, Kathleen P. Dwyer, sold Drumm’s
waterfront house in Chatham,  Massachusetts , on Cape Cod for
about $3.9 million. He paid $4.6 million for that property in
March 2008, according to documents obtained from the Barnstable
County Registry of Deeds.  ‘Insane Lending’  Irish Justice Minister Alan Shatter has introduced
legislation to give police greater powers in banking
investigations after what he said was “insane lending.”  “Property values were substantially overblown in the boom
market that developed, which was fueled by the financial
institutions holding hands with developers,” Shatter said in a
Feb. 10 interview.  The government is seeking European help to refinance the 30
billion euros of bonds used to help rescue Anglo Irish.  For Ireland to get out of the bailout program, “we will
need to find a new arrangement to replace the Anglo promissory
notes,” Irish Transport Minister  Leo Varadkar  said on Feb. 10.
“We are in a hole, but slowly we are clawing our way back
out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  