-- BofA Said to Freeze Moynihan’s Salary as Stock Awards Decline
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-02-18T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/bank-of-america-ceo-moynihan-said-to-be-denied-cash-award-in-2011-package.html
Bank of America Corp.  cut Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s compensation for 2011,
granting him no cash bonus and freezing his salary, said a
person briefed on the executive’s awards.  The bank is holding Moynihan’s salary at $950,000, said the
person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank hasn’t yet announced his
pay package. It gave him $5.9 million in restricted stock units,
mostly linked to future performance, the firm said yesterday in
a filing. For 2010, the grant had surpassed $9 million.  Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender, plunged 58
percent in New York trading last year as Moynihan sold $33
billion in assets and announced 30,000 job cuts amid stagnant
revenue and rising costs from defective mortgages. The stock has
climbed 44 percent this year, the best performance in the 30-
company  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , on optimism that the firm
will benefit as the  U.S. economy  improves.  “They’re setting an example from the top, saying, ‘You
know what? If the company doesn’t do well, our CEO isn’t going
to do as well,’” said  Jeanne Branthover , a managing director at
Boyden Global Executive Search Ltd. in New York. “Yes, these
guys make a lot of money, but they have to wait it out with
their deferred equity, like everyone else.”  The bank had agreed to award Moynihan, 52, a $9.05 million
restricted-stock bonus last February, according to a regulatory
filing the previous month. This year, it gave him 228,302 in
stock units that pay out in 12 monthly installments and 532,705
in performance-contingent units that he may receive as early as
March 2015 if performance hurdles are met, according to
yesterday’s filing. The value is based on the stock’s closing
price on the award date, Feb. 15.  2011 Profit  Bank of America posted net income of $1.4 billion for 2011,
fueled by the divestiture of holdings including a Chinese
lender, compared with a $2.2 billion loss the previous year when
the firm booked $12.4 billion in impairments.  Co-chief operating officer Thomas K. Montag was awarded
stock units totaling $8.1 million, most of which are performance
linked awards, according to a filing. David Darnell, the other
COO, got stock units valued at $4.2 million. Chief Financial
Officer  Bruce Thompson ’s stock award is valued at $6.2 million.  Unlike Moynihan, the managers will also get cash bonuses,
which will be disclosed in a filing next month, the person said.  The company told investment bankers in January to expect
compensation that averages 25 percent less than last year,
people with knowledge of the plans said then. Moynihan may trim
expenses in investment and corporate banking, trading and wealth
management by as much as $3 billion after targeting $5 billion
in cuts to retail operations.  Gorman, Dimon  Morgan Stanley (MS)  reduced CEO James Gorman’s 2011 pay by 25
percent from a year earlier as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  held CEO
 Jamie Dimon ’s steady, said people with knowledge of the plans.
Both firms are based in  New York .  Dimon may receive $23 million, more than double Gorman’s
$10.5 million, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the total pay amounts aren’t public. Dimon got
about $17.3 million in stock and options, while Gorman received
$5.1 million of shares, according to Jan. 20 regulatory filings.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. CEO  Lloyd Blankfein  saw his
restricted stock bonus fall by 44 percent to $7 million for a
year in which earnings dropped by 47 percent on a decline in
fixed-income trading revenue.  JPMorgan surpassed Bank of America as the largest U.S.
lender by assets last year and was the most profitable  U.S. bank 
as net income climbed 9 percent to about $19 billion.  Goldman Sachs (GS)  fell 46 percent in New York trading last
year, while Morgan Stanley declined 44 percent and JPMorgan
slipped 22 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 