-- Barnes & Noble Investor Pushes for Nook Spin Off
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-02-17T21:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/barnes-noble-investor-pushes-for-nook-spin-off.html
Barnes & Noble Inc ., the largest
U.S. bookstore chain, should spin off its Nook digital-reader
business to increase  shareholder value , said one of its largest
investors.  The company is undervalued and should separate the Nook
unit, possibly through a rights offering to current
shareholders, Michael Glickstein, G Asset’s chief investment
officer, said today in a  filing . The New York-based firm said it
owns 5 percent of Barnes & Noble, which would make it the fifth-
largest investor in the company.  G Asset Management began writing the board about spinning
off the Nook in April, according to the filing. Barnes & Noble
said Jan. 5 that it was considering ways to increase shareholder
value, including separating the Nook business. G Asset has
communicated with other Barnes & Noble shareholders and some
support the spinoff, Glickstein said, without naming them.  “I don’t see any data to support not taking action at this
time,” Glickstein, 30, said in a telephone interview. There is
a risk of waiting because the valuations for technology growth
companies may decline, which would then reduce the value of a
spinoff of the Nook, he said.  Barnes & Noble  fell 1.9 percent to $13.11 at the close in
 New York , where the company is based. The shares gained 2.3
percent last year.  One scenario is that Nook would become a separate company,
a person familiar with the situation said last month. The newly
independent Nook would then sell a minority interest to
investors through an initial public offering, hoping to be
valued more like a technology company.  Barnes & Noble would remain majority owner, and the value
assigned to the Nook shares would then be better reflected in
Barnes & Noble’s stock, said the person.  G Asset Management, started in 2009, is a value investor
that has also made investments in Syms Corp. and Bob Evans Farms
Inc., Glickstein said.  Founder  Leonard Riggio  and  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos. are
Barnes & Noble’s top shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  