-- Beacon Defaults on $678 Million Loan for London’s CityPoint
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-02-17T16:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/beacon-capital-defaults-on-678-million-loan-for-london-s-citypoint-tower.html
A Beacon Capital Partners Inc. fund
defaulted on 429 million pounds ($678 million) of loans secured
by a 36-story  London  building known as CityPoint, according to a
regulatory filing.  The borrower missed an interest payment due on Jan. 20.,
said a filing to the Irish Stock Exchange by Ulysses (European
Loan Conduit No. 27) Plc, which issued bonds backed by the debt.  Beacon investment vehicle CityPoint Holdings I Ltd. is the
borrower, according to the loan prospectus. Morgan Stanley
Mortgage Servicing Ltd. informed Ulysses of the shortfall as the
servicer of the bonds, according to the Feb. 15 filing.
“Interest payment default remains outstanding as at today’s
date,” it said.  The payment shortfall came as talks to restructure the loan
were proceeding, according a Morgan Stanley investor report on
the transaction. Morgan Stanley, which is being advised by
Brookland Partners LLP, entered a standstill agreement until
March 5 to give the negotiations time.  Morgan Stanley spokesman Tom Walton declined to comment.
Alex McCallum, a Beacon spokesman in the U.S., also wouldn’t
comment.  Beacon Capital, based in  Boston , owns News Corp.’s
headquarters at 1211 Avenue of the Americas in  New York . The
company said in November that it’s considering alternatives to
selling the property after bids came in for less than its $1.9
billion target price.  CityPoint in the City of London financial district has
707,000 square feet (66,000 square meters) of space and is
Beacon’s largest asset in the U.K. capital, the company said on
its website. The original building, constructed as BP Plc’s
global headquarters, was redeveloped in 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  