-- Bharat Heavy Surges on Speculation of NTPC Order: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-02-17T05:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/bharat-heavy-surges-on-speculation-of-ntpc-order-mumbai-mover.html
Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) ,
India’s biggest power-equipment maker, had its steepest gain in
three years after a rival lost a case to supply to  NTPC Ltd (NTPC) .
fueling speculation of increased orders from the utility.  Bharat Heavy  surged  as much as 14.2 percent to 325 rupees
at 10:22 a.m. in Mumbai, the highest since May 19, 2009.  Larsen
& Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s biggest engineering company, added 3.7
percent to 1,502.7 rupees, while the benchmark BSE India
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  added 1.4 percent.  India’s Supreme Court yesterday reversed a lower court
order that allowed Ansaldo Caldaie Boilers India Pvt. to bid to
supply equipment to NTPC along with Bharat Heavy. The company
based in  New Delhi  posted its slowest quarterly profit gain in
almost four years in the period ended Dec. 31.  “NTPC will now release new power equipment orders,” Jigar Shah, an analyst with Kim Eng Securities India Pvt., which has a
“sell”  recommendation  on Bharat Heavy, said in a note to
clients today. “NTPC has shortlisted 3 bidders including Bharat
Heavy Electricals and Larsen & Toubro among which new orders
could be shared.”  NTPC rejected Ansaldo Caldaie’s bid because it wasn’t a
qualified manufacturer. Ansaldo Caldaie, a venture between
 Gammon India Ltd. (GMON) , a construction company, and Italy’s Ansaldo
Caldaie SpA, contested the decision.  The utility had sought bids for equipment valued at 110
billion rupees ($2.2 billion) for the expansion of its  power
plants , Prashant Kumar, Ansaldo’s lawyer said on March 2.  NTPC is ordering 11 units of steam generators of 660
megawatts each for projects at Mouda, Solapur, Nabinagar, Meja
and Raghunathpur.  Bharat Heavy’s profit rose 2.1 percent in the third
quarter, the slowest pace of increase since a 71 percent drop in
earnings in the period ended March 31, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  