-- Paulson’s Math Seen Failing as Hartford Mulls Breakup: Real M&A
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-02-17T18:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/billionaire-paulson-s-math-seen-failing-as-hartford-mulls-split-real-m-a.html
Even if John Paulson persuades
 Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  to break itself up, the
hedge fund manager could still come up short in his billion-
dollar bet on the 201-year-old insurer.  Hartford’s biggest shareholder said this week he may seek
support from  investors  for a plan to split the property-casualty
and life-insurance businesses, pushing the stock to a  six-month
high  yesterday. Hartford, which sells for less relative to net
assets than comparable U.S. insurers, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, could be worth $32 a share by separating the
units, he said. That’s 50 percent more than its current price.  Paulson, who had his worst year on record in 2011 after
making billions of dollars from anticipating the collapse of the
U.S. subprime market, needs Hartford to reach about $24.71 a
share to recoup his investment, filings to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg show.
While Dowling & Partners said regulatory hurdles and Hartford’s
 debt  will ultimately prevent a split, even a successful breakup
may only boost the insurer’s price to $25 a share, according to
FBR & Co. and Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “I just don’t see how that happens,” Dan Theriault, a New
York-based analyst at Portales Partners LLC, said in a telephone
interview, referring to Paulson’s estimate for Hartford’s
breakup value. “These things, while they look good on paper,
really from a reality standpoint don’t create the value that
you’d think,” he said.  Shareholder Returns  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, who runs the $23
billion hedge fund Paulson & Co. in New York, declined to
comment on whether the Hartford investment would be profitable.  Shannon Lapierre, a spokeswoman for Hartford, based in the
Connecticut city of the same name, declined to comment on
whether breaking up the insurer would boost returns for
shareholders and referred to its Feb. 14 statement.  In it, Hartford said “there are potential benefits to a
separation,” while it also recognized there are “challenges to
successfully executing a separation.”  Founded in 1810, Hartford sells savings products and life
insurance policies that compete with those from firms such as
 MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  Hartford’s rivals in
the property-casualty market include  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  and
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s car-insurance unit Geico Corp.  Once worth more than $33 billion in 2007, Hartford  plunged 
96 percent to its low in March 2009 as the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression produced losses on equity-
linked variable annuities the insurer sold in the U.S. and
 Japan , often with guaranteed minimum returns for customers.  ‘Force Their Hand’  After Hartford drew down its capital to cover the
investment losses, it was forced to take a $3.4 billion bailout
from the U.S. government at the end of June 2009.  Paulson started buying shares of Hartford the next quarter,
a filing with the SEC showed.  His stake  in Hartford’s common
equity increased to a high of 44 million shares in the second
quarter of 2010 and currently stands at about 37.5 million
shares, which includes  warrants  that give Paulson the option to
purchase 70,000 shares at a predetermined price, its filing on
Feb. 14 with the SEC showed.  Paulson’s firm spent about $927.8 million for its 8.4
percent stake in Hartford, its  SEC filing  showed, meaning each
share cost about $24.71, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
17 percent higher than Hartford’s price of $21.19 yesterday.  Paulson’s campaign is “going to force their hand,” Alan Devlin, a London-based analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP, said in
a telephone interview. Assets sales and a breakup are “the best
game plan because it gets you to where you want to be in the
quickest way,” he said.  Breakup Value  Devlin estimates that Hartford could be worth more than $33
a share in a breakup.  Paulson’s Advantage Plus Fund, which seeks to profit from
corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies and borrows
money to amplify returns, lost 51 percent in 2011. Shares of
financial companies were the “primary drag” on the fund’s
performance, Paulson said in a third-quarter letter to investors
in October, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  The firm notified regulators Feb. 14 that it may talk with
shareholders to bolster its push to break up Hartford.  Paulson, 56, and Hartford’s Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee  had clashed on a Feb. 8  conference call  when McGee
resisted Paulson’s assertion that Hartford would be worth more
to shareholders if it were split into separate businesses.  Hartford trades at 0.42 times its assets minus liabilities,
less than any other U.S. insurance company with more than $5
billion in market value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Exhaustive Research’  MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer, trades at about 0.7
times its book value. New York-based Travelers trades at about
the value of its net assets.  “We have done exhaustive research on the challenges and
opportunities of the Hartford and believe that a spinoff would
produce an increase in value for Hartford shareholders,”
Paulson said in a letter to McGee published in a statement Feb.
14. “Hartford trades at lower valuation multiples than any of
its U.S. insurance peers. Addressing these issues should be
Hartford’s highest priority.”  Paulson’s estimate of $32 a share assumes that the
property-casualty business can command a  valuation  of about 1.1
times its shareholder equity and that the life unit would trade
at 0.6 times its book value after a breakup, the filing showed.  Hartford said it has $6.8 billion of debt at the holding
company that, in the event of a split, would have to be passed
to the operating units. The life insurance subsidiaries have
“limited capacity to generate statutory earnings” and can
assume no more than a third of that debt, it said.  $2 Billion Bet  Paulson, who spent $2 billion buying credit-default swaps
on subprime mortgages in 2007 before the housing market
collapsed in a trade that helped him become a billionaire,
recommended 11 steps to help Hartford pay its debt.  He said Hartford could suspend share buybacks and that
 profit  in coming quarters would ease the burden. The company
could also stop selling new products at the U.S. variable
annuities division to conserve capital and find buyers for its
mutual-fund and group-benefits businesses, Paulson said.  “These assets are likely to fetch more value in an
appropriate trade sale than is implied” by the stock price,
Mark Finkelstein, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc., said in
a report dated Feb. 15. Divesting and shutting down the life
businesses could increase the company’s value to $26 a share to
$30 a share, he said. The company is worth about $21.26 a share
if it continues with both of the main operations, he said.  Debt Payments  McGee told Paulson on Feb. 8 that a  separation  probably
wouldn’t “create  shareholder value ,” and the company cited
 credit ratings  and the need for regulatory approvals among the
challenges in a  slide presentation  the same day.  “Management didn’t just brush this off, and they’re not
opposed to it -- it’s just they can’t do it,” Robert Glasspiegel, an analyst at Langen McAlenney, a division of
Janney Capital Markets in Hartford, said in a telephone
interview. “I understand the logic. But I just don’t see how
you could execute it. It’s not feasible.”  Gary Ransom, an analyst at Dowling & Partners in
Farmington,  Connecticut , said in a report to clients that
Hartford’s life business isn’t profitable enough to service more
than a third of the company’s debt, which has increased almost
50 percent since 2007.  That means its property-casualty unit, if it was spun off,
wouldn’t be able to shoulder the remaining liabilities and
maintain its  credit rating  without raising more money, he said.  ‘No Silver Bullet’  “There is no silver bullet,” Ransom wrote in a report
dated Feb. 9, a day after Paulson said on Hartford’s earnings
call it needed “to do something drastic” to boost returns. “A
spin-off is essentially impossible without a dilutive equity
capital raise,” he said.  Brian Schneider, a Chicago-based insurance analyst at  Fitch
Ratings , said yesterday a potential split “raised questions”
about how Hartford’s life business would pay its  debt  as it has
struggled with lower margins and increased costs.  Regulators could also block a breakup to protect customers
from the risk that the life unit wouldn’t be able to repay its
obligations, according to Stifel Nicolaus’  Meyer Shields .  Third-quarter  net income  at the division fell 84 percent to
$63 million from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s less than any quarter since it lost money in
the same three-month period in 2009.  “If you’ve got a unit whose earnings are weak, and you’ve
got significant policyholder  liabilities  that will emerge over
time, I think regulators would hinder that sort of breakup,”
Shields said in a telephone interview from Baltimore. “The
value of the standalone life company is lower than the more
optimistic assumptions that  John Paulson  described.”  Sum of Parts  Shields said a “very rough” estimate of $25 a share would
be a better gauge of Hartford’s value in a breakup. He based the
projection on each unit’s earnings.  Randy Binner , an analyst at FBR in Arlington,  Virginia ,
also said $25 a share would be a more realistic projection. That
would imply a return of just 1 percent for Paulson, based on the
firm’s per-share cost.  Binner’s sum-of-the-parts analysis used 9 times estimated
 2012 earnings  for the property-casualty business and 7.3 times
projected profit for the life unit.  While a split or a spin-off is ultimately unlikely, Dowling
& Partners’ Ransom said a more feasible option would be selling
the property-casualty business. At a sale price of  1.25 times 
book value for the property-casualty business, the proceeds
would still only give Hartford a value of $21 a share.  Long-Term Interest  The sale wouldn’t significantly boost returns for
shareholders because more than half the proceeds would be used
to pay down debt and taxes, while ratings companies would
require the remaining company to bolster its  capital , he said.  Paulson’s interest in Hartford “doesn’t really change
anything,” Joshua Schachter, who helps manage about $3 billion
at Snow Capital Management LP in Sewickley,  Pennsylvania , and
owns Hartford shares, said in a telephone interview. “At this
point in Hartford’s position, I don’t think splitting the
company up is the best thing long term for the shareholders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 