-- Bird Flu Research to Stay on Hold as Papers to Be Published
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-17T17:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/bird-flu-research-to-stay-on-hold-as-papers-to-be-published-1-.html
Bird flu experts meeting in Geneva
agreed to allow the publication of two studies that alarmed U.S.
security officials by showing how to make the deadly H5N1 virus
easily transmissible.  The publication of the papers will be delayed to allow a
better explanation to the public of why the work is necessary,
said Ron Fouchier, who led one of the research groups at Erasmus
Medical Center in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. A moratorium on
the research will continue until health officials agree on the
circumstances under which the research should be done.  “The consensus of this meeting is that in the interests of
public health the full paper should be published,” Fouchier
said at a press conference at the  World Health Organization ’s
headquarters in Geneva today. “This was based on the high
public-health impact of this work and the need to share the
details of the studies with a very big community, in the
interests of science, surveillance and public health as a
whole.”  The H5N1 strain of avian influenza has infected at least
584 people in 15 countries since 2003, killing almost  60 percent 
of them, according to the WHO. Most victims have had direct
contact with infected birds, and the virus hasn’t so far shown a
capacity to spread easily from person to person.  Mutating Viruses  Still, flu viruses mutate constantly, causing scientists
and health authorities to fret that one such genetic change may
make H5N1 more contagious among humans, touching off a pandemic
that may kill millions.  The meeting was organized after two groups of researchers -
- one in the U.S. and the other in the Netherlands -- tweaked
H5N1 to make it more transmissible among ferrets, the mammals
whose response to flu is most like that of humans. The studies
were intended to demonstrate what it would take for the virus to
spread rapidly between people, giving scientists and health
officials more information with which to prepare for a pandemic.  The researchers, led by Fouchier and Yoshihiro Kawaoka at
the  University of Wisconsin  at Madison, agreed to suspend the
work for 60 days after the U.S. National Science Advisory Board
for Biosecurity asked two journals in December to censor some
details of the work to ensure it wouldn’t “fall into the wrong
hands.”  WHO Meeting  The WHO invited 22 participants to the meeting, including
Fouchier and Kawaoka, the editors of the journals Science and
Nature, the heads of WHO flu labs worldwide, a representative of
the U.S. biosecurity board, and Anthony S. Fauci, director of
the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and  Infectious Diseases ,
which funded the work.  Censoring the research won’t stop scientists with “an
intent to cause harm” from getting hold of the information,
said David Heymann, a former assistant director-general of the
WHO, who didn’t attend the meeting. Heymann is head of the
Centre on Global Health Security at  Chatham House , a London-
based think tank.  “If rogue scientists want to get a hold of anything, they
know how to do it and they will do it,” Heymann said in a
telephone interview before the meeting ended. “What you can do
is mold public opinion and scientific opinion towards best
practices, which puts peer pressure on everybody.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  