-- Blackstone Said to End Talks to Buy Brocade Because of Price
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-02-17T23:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/blackstone-said-to-end-talks-to-buy-brocade-communications-amid-stock-gain.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, ended talks to buy  Brocade
Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD)  because the price was too high for a
leveraged buyout, said a person with knowledge of the situation.  Blackstone and Francisco Partners had been discussing a
potential takeover of Brocade after other private-equity firms
lost interest, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the matter is private. The maker of switches for data-
storage networks, which has been looking for a buyer since 2009,
has a  market value  of about $2.58 billion.  Brocade has become more expensive after rebounding more
than 60 percent since an Aug. 5 drop, when the  San Jose ,
California-based company reported preliminary results that fell
short of its forecasts. Brocade’s fourth-quarter earnings
excluding items beat analysts’ estimates in November, helped by
record revenue in its Ethernet business. The company has more
than doubled its free  cash flow  in the past five years.  “Brocade generates a very healthy  cash flow  and doesn’t
have the financial urgency to sell,” said  Erik Suppiger , an
analyst at JMP Securities LLC in  San Francisco , who has a
neutral rating on the stock. “The question is how long its
growth will last, as Brocade’s legacy fiber-channel technology
gets replaced by the new Ethernet technology. The transition
could take a decade -- the longer, the better for Brocade.”  Ethernet Assets  After falling as much as 10 percent, Brocade shares closed
down 2.2 percent to $5.68 as of 4 p.m. New York time. The stock
advanced 12 percent this year through yesterday.  Spokesmen for New York-based Blackstone and Brocade
declined to comment. A representative of  Francisco Partners 
wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Brocade bought Foundry Networks Inc. in December 2008 to
enter the market for so-called Ethernet switches, which are
gaining popularity in data centers. In July, Dell Inc. passed
over Brocade to buy competitor Force10 Networks Inc., a person
with knowledge of the situation said at the time.  Elliott Management Corp., the hedge fund that pushed Novell
Inc. to sell itself in 2010, reduced its stake in Brocade last
month to 7.5 percent from 8.5 percent. At the time, Brocade had
gained about 64 percent on renewed speculation about a potential
sale since Elliott amassed the stake in August.  Fund managers sometimes use their status as shareholders to
urge management to shift strategy or look for a buyout. Activist
investor  Carl Icahn  pressed  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  on
July 21 to explore strategic alternatives. Google Inc. agreed to
acquire Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion on Aug. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  