-- Bovespa Index Extends Weekly Gain on Brazil Inflation, Jump in Commodities
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-02-17T20:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/bovespa-futures-gain-on-lower-inflation-interest-rate-outlook.html
The Bovespa index added to a weekly
gain as slower Brazilian inflation boosted the outlook for
companies that sell in the local market and higher commodities
prices lifted producers.  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar ,
 Brazil ’s biggest retailer, was the best performer on the gauge
after its fourth-quarter net income of 361 million reais ($210.6
million) exceeded analysts’ forecasts. The  MSCI Brazil (MXBR) /Consumer
Staples  index  jumped the most among 10 industry groups.  OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  and  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) 
followed crude higher.  The Bovespa climbed 0.1 percent to 66,203.50 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo, extending the gain this week to 3.4
percent for Brazil’s benchmark equity measure. Forty-one stocks
increased on the gauge today, while 25 fell. The real added 0.1
percent to 1.7139 per  U.S. dollar . The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index of 24 raw materials added 0.4 percent.  “We’re seeing very positive signs on the inflation front,
and the central bank will probably take the opportunity to
further lower  interest rates ,” Rogerio Freitas, a partner at
hedge fund Teorica Investimentos, said by phone from  Rio de
Janeiro . “Economic data released in the U.S. this week were a
little better than expected, which could be a positive sign for
the global economy.”  Brazil Inflation  Consumer prices in Brazil as measured by the IPCA-15 index
increased 0.53 percent through mid-February, the national
statistics agency said today. The measure was expected to rise
0.56 percent, according to the median forecast of 46 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts due in January 2013 fell four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 9.18 percent.  Pao de Acucar jumped 5.7 percent to 79.20 reais, the
highest since the company’s initial public offering in 1995.  Crude climbed as signs of an improving U.S. economy and
progress on a bailout for  Greece  bolstered the outlook for fuel
demand.  The index of U.S. leading indicators rose in January for a
fourth month, signaling the world’s largest economy will keep
expanding through the first half of 2012. A separate report from
the Labor Department yesterday showed applications for
unemployment insurance payments dropped 13,000 in the week ended
Feb. 11 to 348,000.  In  Europe , officials closed in on a deal to unlock a 130
billion-euro ($171 billion) aid package for Greece, seeking to
avert the region’s first sovereign default.  OGX, Petrobras  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  and Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  discussed
efforts to secure a second Greek bailout in a conference call
today and are confident that the region’s finance ministers will
“find a solution for open questions” on Feb. 20, Steffen
Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said in a statement.  OGX, the  oil company  controlled by billionaire Eike Batista, rose 2 percent to 17.65 reais, and Petrobras, as
Petroleo Brasileiro is known, advanced 0.7 percent to 24.05
reais.  Lupatech SA (LUPA3) , Brazil’s biggest provider of oil equipment and
services, surged 14 percent to 5.92 reais on speculation it has
become a takeover target. Odebrecht SA, a Brazilian construction
and chemicals conglomerate that also makes oil platforms, is
seeking to buy Lupatech, O Estado de S. Paulo columnist Sonia Racy said on the newspaper’s website today, without saying where
she got the information.  Lupatech declined to comment in an e-mailed response to
questions. Odebrecht Oleo e Gas, the oil equipment and services
division of Odebrecht, doesn’t have any “concrete” plans to
make acquisitions at this time, the company said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The company is “constantly studying”
growth opportunities, it said.  Relative Value  The Bovespa has advanced 17 percent this year, after
slumping 18 percent in 2011, buoyed by Brazil’s interest-rate
cuts, signs of growth in the U.S. and renewed optimism Europe
may be closer to solving its debt crisis. The gauge trades at
10.5 times analysts’ earnings estimates, which compares with a
ratio of 10.6 for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg  Traders  moved  6.42 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo 
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 6.59 billion reais this year through Feb. 7,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  