-- BP Settles With Drilling Fluid Provider Over 2010 Oil Spill
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-02-17T23:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/bp-settles-with-drilling-fluid-provider-over-2010-oil-spill.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and M-I Swaco, which provided
fluid for the doomed Macondo well, settled all claims against
each other over the 2010  oil spill  in the  Gulf of Mexico , the
companies said in a court filing.  M-I, a unit of  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , has been named as a
defendant in hundreds of lawsuits over the spill by businesses,
property owners and state governments. M-I said it wasn’t
responsible for the Deepwater Horizon rig explosion and that BP
and other companies were, according to court papers filed last
year.  BP said in a claim filed in June that M-I LLC, also known
as M-I Swaco, “failed to provide, control, and monitor the mud
and spacer solutions used on the Deepwater Horizon in a
reasonably safe manner.” The companies won’t pursue allegations
against each other, they said in today’s filing.  BP and M-I “have agreed to mutually dismiss with all
prejudice all claims that the parties brought, or could have
brought, against each other,” lawyers for the companies said.
The filing didn’t mention whether either company would be making
a payment.  The Macondo well blowout and the  explosion  that followed
killed 11 workers. The sinking of  Transocean (RIG) ’s Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig and subsequent spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP and its partners and contractors.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, who’s
overseeing much of the spill litigation, has scheduled a nonjury
trial for Feb. 27 to determine liability and apportion fault for
the disaster. M-I remains a defendant in the trial.  Merger  “BP and M-I Swaco’s claims against each other relating to
the Deepwater Horizon incident have been mutually and
voluntarily dismissed,” Stephen T. Harris, a Schlumberger
spokesman, said in an e-mailed comment. “Terms of the
settlement are confidential.”  “MI-Swaco is a valued supplier,” said  Scott Dean , a BP
spokesman, in an e-mailed statement.  M-I Swaco became part of Schlumberger in August 2010 as a
result of its merger with Smith International, according to
company’s website.  BP previously settled with its partners in the well,
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,  Mitsui & Co. ’s MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC,
and  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , maker of blowout prevention
equipment used for the project.  Spill Claims  Houston-based Cameron reported Dec. 16 that it had agreed
to pay BP $250 million in exchange for the oil company’s
indemnifying it from damage claims. The settlement doesn’t cover
fines, penalties or punitive damages.  Anadarko, which had a 25 percent share in the Macondo well,
agreed in October to pay BP $4 billion to settle oil spill
claims. MOEX, which had a 10 percent share, settled for $1.07
billion in May.  The settlements don’t cover possible fines. Mitsui’s MOEX
unit settled government claims over Clean Water Act violations
for $90 million today. Barbier has ruled that MOEX and Anadarko
can’t be sued for punitive damages.  The lawsuit is part of In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 