-- Brazil’s Mid-Month Inflation Slows to Below 6% for First Time Since 2010
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-02-17T12:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/brazil-s-mid-month-inflation-slows-to-below-6-for-first-time-since-2010.html
Brazilian  consumer prices  rose less
than economists expected through mid-February, taking the
mid-month inflation rate below 6 percent for the first time 
since December 2010. Interest-rate futures yields fell, as traders
increased bets on rate cuts.  Prices, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, rose 0.53
percent, down from 0.65 percent a month earlier, and less than
the 0.56 percent median estimate from 46 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Annual inflation slowed to 5.98 percent.  Today’s number creates additional space for the central
bank to cut its benchmark Selic rate, said  Solange Srour , chief
economist at BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos.  “Today, the chance of the Selic getting to 9 percent is
higher than before,” Srour said, speaking by telephone from  Rio
de Janeiro .  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini has pledged to
slow consumer price rises to the 4.5 percent midpoint of the
target range this year. The economy’s recent “below potential”
growth has opened up space for further interest rate cuts
without stoking inflation, Tombini said in Mumbai this month.
The central bank  targets  inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus
two percentage points.  “This confirms the path of ever lower  interest rates ,”
said Jose Goncalves, chief economist at Banco Fator in Sao
Paulo. “This will postpone a possible reversal of the interest
rate cuts.”  Unemployment Rate  Brazil ’s January  unemployment rate  fell to 5.5 percent from
6.1 percent a year earlier, the national statistics agency said.
The drop was in line with the median estimate from 44 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Unemployment was a record low 4.7 percent
in December.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2014, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 9.62 percent at 9:48
a.m. Brasilia time.  The inflation slowdown was led by food and beverage costs,
which rose 0.29 percent, from 1.25 percent in the month through
mid-January. Transportation costs fell 0.05 percent, after
rising 0.79 percent the previous month.  Policy makers began a cycle of interest rate cuts in August
to help shield Brazil from the effects of the European debt
crisis. Traders are betting the central bank will cut borrowing
costs by half a percentage point for a fifth straight meeting in
March, to 10.00 percent, and to as low as 9.25 percent by
August, according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate
futures.  Growth will pick up speed in the second half of the year
and reach an annualized pace of more than 5 percent due to
government stimulus measures, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said yesterday. Economists in a Feb. 10 central bank survey
forecast the economy to grow 3.3 percent this year and 4.1
percent next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  