-- Brazil Juice Makers to Scrap Fungicide Faster After Losses
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-02-17T16:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/brazil-juice-makers-to-scrap-fungicide-faster-after-losses-1-.html
Orange-juice producers in  Brazil ,
the world’s largest exporter, will accelerate efforts to phase
out the use of a fungicide banned in the U.S. after losing about
$50 million from rejected shipments this year.  The use of carbendazim, which has been banned in U.S.
groves, will be phased out in six to eight months in Brazil,
less than the 18 months previously expected, said Christian
Lohbauer, head of the country’s orange-juice exporters
association CitrusBr. Juice processors will also export more
non-concentrate juice after the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration declined Brazil’s request to raise accepted
levels of the fungicide in concentrate, he said.  The U.S. started screening orange-juice imports this year
after the Coca Cola Co., owner of the Minute Maid brand,
reported traces of carbendazim in Brazilian shipments. Juice is
shipped as concentrate from the South American country to reduce
costs by trimming cargo volumes and weight. The process to make
juice concentrate increases the concentration of carbendazim,
Lohbauer said.  “If they won’t raise the permitted levels for concentrate,
we will export more of non-concentrate,” Lohbauer said by
telephone from Sao Paulo.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  limits carbendazim to
less than 10 parts per billion in all imports. Brazilian
producers asked the FDA to raise the limit to 60 parts per
billion for concentrates.  Rejected Shipments  The U.S. has rejected about 25,000 metric tons of juice
from Brazil this year, causing losses because exporters will
resell the cargoes at lower prices and will have higher freight
costs, Lohbauer said.  Orange juice producers Sucocitrico Cutrale Ltda, Louis
Dreyfus & Cie SA, Citrovita Agro Industrial Ltda and Citrosuco,
which own plants in Brazil and in the U.S., will also boost
output of juice concentrate in the U.S. to supply the local
market and meet supply contracts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  