-- Cameron, Sarkozy to Sign Nuclear Deal; Rolls-Royce Benefits
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-02-17T13:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/cameron-to-sign-nuclear-power-pact-with-sarkozy-rolls-royce-to-benefit.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
signed an accord in Paris on civilian nuclear cooperation with
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , paving the way for the
construction of a new generation of power stations in Britain.  Relations between Britain and France have been strained by
Cameron’s refusal in December to back a European Union accord to
strengthen the euro and by Sarkozy’s push for an EU-wide
financial-transaction tax.  After their initial meeting today, the two leaders said
they had focused on areas of cooperation, including Syria and
plans for a new military drone aircraft as well as nuclear deals
between  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  and Areva SA and between  EDF SA (EDF) 
and a joint venture of  Kier Group Plc (KIE)  and BAM Nuttall Ltd. Both
relate to a new reactor at Hinkley Point in western  England .  “I don’t think there has been closer French-British
cooperation at any time since the Second World War,” Cameron
told reporters at a joint press conference. “The strength of
the relationship is we can have disagreement but then actually
be able to go on working together.”  The U.K. sees nuclear power as a way to meet the energy
needs of citizens while abiding by targets to reduce the
production of carbon dioxide, which is linked to  climate change .
The resignation this month of Energy Secretary Chris Huhne, who
argued that nuclear power must be shown to be competitive on
price, may make it easier for Cameron to get new plants built.  Reactor Deals  Deals to be signed today include a 400 million-pound ($630
million) agreement for Rolls-Royce to manufacture equipment and
provide servicing for a reactor being built by  Areva (CEI) , and a 100
million-pound contract for Kier and BAM Nuttall for preliminary
building work on the Hinkley Point site for EDF.  The two leaders also agreed to move to the next stage of a
joint project to make a Medium Altitude Long Endurance drone,
with BAE Systems Plc and Dassault tasked with studying technical
risks. Both men condemned Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
continued violent crackdown on the country’s opposition.  “We are looking at ways to help, but the revolution can’t
be done without the Syrian people,” Sarkozy said. “Our message
to the Syrian opposition is join together and tell us how we can
help.”  Cameron echoed those sentiments. “I’m not satisfied we’re
taking all the action we need to, but it’s difficult,” he said.
“It’s complicated.”  Cameron said ties between Britain and  France  are
“incredibly strong” and “easily strong enough to survive the
odd bump and bounce that we sometimes have when we have a
disagreement.” Sarkozy, who trails his Socialist challenger
Francois Hollande in the polls ahead of the first round of
elections on April 22, said “there are more convergences than
divergences” between Britain and France.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Paris at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  