-- Canada Housing Heads for Severe Correction on Investment: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-02-17T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/canada-housing-poised-for-severe-drop.html
Canada  may be on the cusp of a
“severe” housing correction as real estate investment surges
above a tipping point relative to economic output, according to
George Athanassakos, professor of finance at the Richard Ivey
School of Business.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows Canada’s housing investment as a
percentage of gross domestic product, and the declines in
inflation-adjusted house prices that follow when this ratio tops
7 percent.  “Eventually, everything boils down to demand and supply,”
Athanassakos said in a telephone interview from Western
University in London, Ontario. “Whenever this ratio goes over 7
percent, it signifies overinvestment in housing and two or three
years later, we have a severe correction.”  Canada’s housing market is booming as historically-low
 interest rates  fuel purchases, driving up  home prices  and adding
to record  household debt . Canada’s ratio of housing investment
to GDP has averaged 5.8 percent over the last 50 years and is
currently at about 7 percent, based on Statistics Canada figures
as of the third quarter of 2011, Athanassakos said. Housing
investment includes spending on new homes, renovations and real
estate transaction fees.  U.S. housing prices plunged by a third between the peak in
July 2006 and November 2011, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
Composite-20 Home Price Index. By comparison, Canadian housing
prices rose 30 percent in the same period, according to the
 Canadian Real Estate Association .  “We have experienced bubbles and busts before in Canada,
it’s nothing new,” Athanassakos said. “I don’t know why this
time would be different.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexandre Tanzi at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net  