-- Canada January Inflation Unexpectedly Quickens to 2.5% on Food, Gasoline
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-02-17T15:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/canada-january-inflation-unexpectedly-quickens-to-2-5-on-food-gasoline.html
Canada ’s  inflation rate  unexpectedly
quickened in January as prices increased for every category
except for leisure products, led by groceries and fuel.  The  consumer price index  rose 2.5 percent in January from a
year earlier after December’s 2.3 percent gain, Ottawa-based
Statistics Canada said. The  core  rate, which excludes eight
volatile items, rose to 2.1 percent from December’s 1.9 percent.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted both rates would stay
at last month’s levels, according to the median of 24 estimates.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has said inflation will
fall below his 2 percent target in the second quarter because
the economy will continue to operate below its potential into
next year. Inflation exceeded 3 percent as recently as September
as Carney sought to boost growth by extending the longest pause
in  interest rates  since the 1950s.  “Core CPI is still at a comfortable level for the Bank of
Canada,” said Jimmy Jean, a strategist in the fixed-income
group at Desjardins Capital Markets in  Montreal . “We expect
soft domestic demand and still elevated spare capacity to keep a
lid on inflation in months to come.”  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.1 percent to 99.57 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 9:53 a.m. Toronto time. Government bond
yields rose including the two-year bond to 1.10 percent from
1.07 percent, the highest since October 28.  The cost of bread rose 9.9 percent from a year ago in
January, Statistics Canada said, followed by an 8.3 percent rise
in fresh vegetables and a 6.5 percent increase for meat.  Higher Energy Costs  Gasoline posted a 6.8 percent gain while electricity costs
were 7.3 percent higher,  Statistics Canada  said.  WestJet Airlines Ltd., the discount carrier based in
Calgary, reported a 4.3 percent drop in fourth-quarter profit on
Feb. 8 as the average fuel cost climbed 26 percent.  Energy drove a 2.9 percent average increase in consumer
prices last year, the fastest since the central bank adopted
inflation targets in 1991. The bank forecast last month that
inflation would slow to a 1.5 percent annual pace in the April-
June period.  “It’s a still a bit of a dovish story,” said  Derek Holt ,
Scotia Capital’s vice-president of economics in Toronto. “This
restores some sanity to the print we had in the last report”
when inflation slowed from 2.9 percent to 2.3 percent.  Inflation Goal  The  Bank of Canada  runs monetary policy with a goal of
achieving 2 percent annual inflation, the mid-point of a 1
percent to 3 percent target range.  The only major category of eight to post an annual decline
in January was recreation, education and reading, with a 0.1
percent drop, as consumers paid less for video equipment and
travel tours.  On a monthly basis, consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in
January while  core inflation  rose 0.2 percent. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predicted monthly inflation of 0.3 percent
and a 0.1 percent advance in core prices.  Seasonally adjusted inflation rose 0.5 percent in January
from the month before, more than reversing the December decline
of 0.2 percent.  Canada’s index of leading economic indicators  rose  for the
seventh consecutive month in January led by housing while
December  jobless benefits  claims rose, Statistics Canada also
reported today. The leading index gained 0.7 percent, matching
December’s revised increase, and the number of Canadians
receiving jobless benefits increased 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 