-- Carlyle Said to Lower Fees as It Seeks $10 Billion for New Fund
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-02-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/carlyle-said-to-lower-fees-as-it-seeks-10-billion-for-new-fund.html
Carlyle Group (CG) , the private equity
firm planning to go public this year, has lowered fees for big
investors as it seeks $10 billion for its next flagship buyout
fund, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Backers who put up $500 million or more for Carlyle
Partners VI will pay a discounted management fee of 1.1 percent
on committed capital, while smaller investors will be charged as
much as 1.5 percent, depending on the size of their commitment,
said the people, who asked not to identified because the
Washington-based company is private. Carlyle will keep 20
percent of profits as a performance fee.  Competitors such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and KKR & Co. have
also lowered fees or cut special deals to entice larger clients
as buyout firms vie for a shrinking pool of investor dollars.
The success of CP VI is important to Carlyle as it seeks to
convince prospective investors in its initial public offering
that it can continue to increase fee-generating assets.  The firm, whose assets have increased ninefold from $16
billion in 2003 to $148 billion at the end of the third quarter,
will begin marketing shares to investors as soon as April. The
amount of management fees Carlyle collects will be closely
watched by potential investors as they offer a more reliable
stream of revenue than fees tied to  investment performance .  Carlyle reported $683.2 million in fund management fees for
the nine months ended September 2011 and performance fees of
$736.5 million, according to its registration statement.  Randall Whitestone, a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to
comment on the new fund.  Separate Accounts  Big private equity investors are turning to separately
managed accounts to obtain cheaper fees and more control in
exchange for locking up their money for a decade or more. In
December,  New Jersey  said it will put as much as $1.5 billion
into four custom funds to be managed by Blackstone, which the
state said will save about $120 million in fees. A month
earlier, the Teacher Retirement System of  Texas  committed $3
billion apiece to KKR and Apollo Global Management LLC. Carlyle
in July struck a deal with the Municipal Employees’ Retirement
System of  Michigan  to manage as much as $250 million in a
separate account.  Co-founded by  David Rubenstein ,  William Conway  and  Daniel
D’Aniello , Carlyle would be at least the fifth buyout firm to go
public since Fortress Investment Group LLC held an IPO in
February 2007, followed by Blackstone, KKR and Apollo Global
Management.  Carlyle, which employs about 1,200 people worldwide, plans
to list its shares on the  Nasdaq  under the symbol CG. It hasn’t
set a  price range  or the number of shares it aims to sell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  