-- Chinese Loans to Latin America Top World Bank, IDB Combined
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-17T08:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/chinese-loans-to-latin-america-top-world-bank-idb-combined.html
China lent an estimated $75 billion
to  Latin America  since 2005, with 82 percent of the loans given
by China Development Bank Corp., a report said.  The governments of Venezuela,  Brazil ,  Argentina  and Ecuador
received 91 percent of the total, according to a study that will
be published in the Inter-American Dialogue today and that was
e-mailed to Bloomberg News. China’s lending to the region in
2010 was more than the  World Bank , the Inter-American
Development Bank and the Export-Import Bank of the  United States 
combined.  China has expanded its lending overseas to help secure
resources and help Chinese companies enter new markets.  China
Development Bank (SDBZ) , which has businesses in 130 countries, had
more than $180 billion of outstanding foreign-currency loans at
the end of September, Vice President Li Jiping said at a
conference in Beijing in November.  Chinese banks don’t impose policy conditions on borrowing
governments and the loans require less demanding environmental
standards compared to western banks, authors Kevin Gallagher,
Amos Irwin and Katherine Koleski said.  “However, contrary to much of the commentary on the
subject, Latin American nations generally pay a higher premium
for loans from  China ,” they wrote. “That higher premium comes
in the form of interest rates, not loans-for-oil,” which make
up about 66 percent of the transactions.  The Export-Import Bank of China made 12 percent of the
loans and  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China  6 percent,
according to the study, which didn’t consider many loans under
$50 million and relied on government, bank and press reports in
China and borrowing countries. Chinese banks don’t regularly
publish detailed lending figures for overseas loans.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  