-- China’s Stocks Rise, Poised for Longest Weekly Rally Since November 2010
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-17T05:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/china-s-stocks-rise-poised-for-longest-weekly-rally-since-november-2010.html
China’s stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index toward the longest weekly gains in 15 months, as
fewer U.S. jobless claims and speculation  Greece  will secure a
second European debt bailout bolstered the outlook for China’s
two biggest export markets.  China Life Insurance Co. (LFC)  gained 2 percent, leading a gauge
of financial stocks to the biggest advance among industry groups
after the insurer’s premium income rose 12 percent in January.
China Cosco Holdings Co., the world’s largest operator of dry-
bulk ships, advanced 2 percent. China Vanke Co., the largest
property developer, slid 0.8 percent after the Economic
Information Daily quoted a housing official as saying the
government will keep property curbs in place for the long term.  “The global economy isn’t as bad as some people had
feared, which is good for China and Chinese companies,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst in Lisle,  Illinois , at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., which manages $700 million including Chinese
stocks, said by phone yesterday. “Most people still expect
China’s central bank will do more easing as the government has
shifted to a more accommodative mode in supporting growth.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 6.6 points, or 0.3
percent, to 2,363.49 as of 1:36 p.m. local time. The  CSI 300
Index  added 0.3 percent to 2,543.83. The  Bloomberg China-US 55
Index , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, added 1.5 percent yesterday in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite has advanced 0.6 percent this week,
a fifth week of gains and the longest winning streak since Nov.
5, 2010. It has rebounded 9.7 percent from a Jan. 5 low on
speculation the central bank will cut reserve-requirement ratios
for lenders to spur growth. It announced a reduction in reserve
ratios on Nov. 30, the first since 2008, after boosting them and
interest rates last year to cool inflation.  Global Economy  China may cut banks’ reserve requirements three more times
in the first half, after the central bank said this week it is
targeting greater growth in  money supply  in 2012, HSBC Holdings
Plc economists said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  A gauge of banks, insurers and brokers in the CSI 300 added
0.6 percent, the most among 10 industry groups. China Life rose
2 percent to 18.63 yuan after it said last month’s premium
income increased to 49.1 billion yuan ($7.8 billion) from 43.9
billion yuan a year ago. Rival Ping An Insurance Group Co.
advanced 0.7 percent to 39.95 yuan.  Asian stocks  rose today after reports showed Americans
filed the fewest claims for jobless benefits since March 2008
and builders broke ground on more houses than expected.
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded this month at
the fastest pace in four months as orders and sales rose.  Europe Debt  European governments are considering cutting  interest rates 
on emergency loans to Greece and using contributions from the
 European Central Bank  to plug a new financing gap in the second
Greek bailout, two people familiar with the talks said.  Europe  and the U.S. account for about 35 percent of China’s
overseas shipments, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.
China Cosco advanced 2 percent to 5.62 yuan.  Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said he is looking to support
exporters by easing funding pressures on companies and keeping
the local currency’s exchange rate stable, according to a Feb.
12 statement published on his ministry’s website.  China may set its lowest annual growth target in eight
years as authorities place less emphasis on the pace of
expansion and the global economy remains weak,  Fan Jianping ,
chief economist at the government-run State Information Center,
said.  Lower Targets  Premier  Wen Jiabao  may announce a 7 percent or 7.5 percent
target for economic growth this year at the annual National
People’s Congress meetings that convene in March, Fan said in an
interview yesterday. The last time  China  set a growth target
below 8 percent was in 2004, when the goal was 7 percent.  An index tracking housing developers in the Shanghai stock
exchange fell 0.4 percent today. China Vanke slid 0.8 percent to
7.73 yuan. Gemdale Corp. declined 1.7 percent to 5.25 yuan.  The property gauge slumped 18 percent last year as the
government limited mortgages and restricted home purchases to
rein in  home prices  that increased in the previous two years.
The cooling market helped slow gross domestic product growth in
2011 to 9.2 percent, matching the smallest expansion since 2002.  China’s housing market is experiencing the “mother” of
all bubbles, and a property slump will hurt everything from
Australian mining firms to Europe’s luxury-goods makers,
according to Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co.  “We are very concerned” about  China’s economy , Peter Chiappinelli, a portfolio strategist for  asset allocation  at
Boston-based GMO, said at the Bloomberg Link Portfolio Manager
Mash-Up Conference in New York. “All bubbles pop eventually.”  GMO, which oversees $97 billion in assets, is betting that
shares of Chinese real-estate developers, construction companies
and cement producers will decline, said Chiappinelli.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose to a one-week high as
 China Mobile Ltd. (CHL)  and  Cnooc Ltd. (CEO)  jumped on speculation of more
monetary easing.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  