-- China Raises Resources Tax on Iron Ore, Tin, Molybdenum
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-17T09:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/china-raises-resources-tax-on-iron-tin-molybdenum-production.html
China raised the  resources tax  on
six minerals, including  iron ore , tin and molybdenum, to help
conserve reserves in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The tax on iron ore production was raised to 80 percent of
a  base rate , from 60 percent, effective from Feb. 1, the
official China Taxation News said in a report today, citing a
joint circular from the Ministry of Finance and State
Administration of Taxation. The base rate is between 2 and 30
yuan ($4.76) a metric ton, depending on the ore grade, according
to a government notice in October.  “Iron ore mining generates huge profits,” said Zeng Jiesheng, a Shanghai-based analyst with researcher Mysteel.com.
“The changes in the tax will have little impact on costs,
though they will help boost  tax revenue  for local governments.”  China , the world’s largest buyer of iron ore, is taking
steps, including fiscal measures, to slow mineral production
growth to conserve the environment. The government is also
increasing tax rates to spur electricity saving in power-
intensive industries after the country missed its energy-
reduction target for the five years ended 2010.  The resources tax on tin was increased to as much as 20
yuan a ton and that on molybdenum, used to harden steel, was
raised to as much as 12 yuan a ton, said China Taxation News, a
publication of the State Administration of Taxation. That’s
equivalent to a 20-fold jump for tin and a gain of 4 yuan a ton
for molybdenum, according to  Shanghai Securities News .  “The tax rate increases are the first for iron ore and
molybdenum since Jan. 1, 2006, and maybe longer for tin,” said
Heng Kun, a Shanghai-based analyst with Essence Securities Co.
China is the world’s largest producer of tin and molybdenum.  Tin Ore  China Vanadium Titano-Magnetite Mining Co. (893) , a non state-
owned iron ore producer in Sichuan province, added 1 percent to
close at HK$2.05 in  Hong Kong .  China Molybdenum Co. (3993)  and
 Jinduicheng (601958)  Molybdenum Co., the country’s biggest producers,
fell. China Molybdenum dropped 0.7 percent to HK$4.08, while
Jinduicheng declined 0.4 percent in Shanghai trading.  “Compared with the price of tin ore, the tax increase is
nothing,” Wu Xiaofeng, an analyst at SMM Information &
Technology Co., said by phone from Shanghai. Tin ore with 40
percent content in Yunnan is about 120,000 yuan a ton, and the
new tax for the highest grade is 20 yuan, according to Wu.  Yunnan Tin Co. (000960) , listed in Shenzhen, is the world’s largest
producer of the base metal. The shares fell 0.6 percent to close
at 23.37 yuan, while the  Shanghai  Composite, the benchmark in
China, increased less than 0.1 percent.  The impact on tin producers will be short term as they can
pass on additional costs to customers amid a scarcity of the
metal, China International Capital Corp. analysts, led by Hong
Kong-based Cai Hongyu, said in an e-mailed note.  The government also adjusted the resources tax on
magnesite, pencil stone and boron rocks, China Taxation News
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  