-- Most China Stocks Fall on Growth, Lending Concern, Trimming Weekly Advance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-17T07:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/china-stocks-fall-on-jump-in-money-rates-slowing-economic-growth-concern.html
Most Chinese stocks fell on concern
a jump in money-market rates will make it costly for small
companies to borrow and as a state economist said the government
will set the lowest growth target in eight years.  Five stocks declined for every three than gained on the
benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which added 0.3 point, or
less than 0.1 percent, to 2,357.18 at the close. For the week,
the index climbed 0.2 percent, a fifth week of gains and the
longest winning streak since November 2010. The Shanghai gauge
has rebounded 9.7 percent from a Jan. 5 low on speculation the
central bank will cut reserve-requirement ratios to spur growth.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. led a slump for coal producers
after economist  Fan Jianping  said Premier  Wen Jiabao  may
announce a 7 percent or 7.5 percent target for economic growth
this year. China Life Insurance Co., the biggest insurer, gained
1.8 percent after premium income rose 12 percent in January.  “The process of policy easing is much slower than expected
and market liquidity isn’t ample to push the market up
further,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities
Co. in Shanghai. “Investors are waiting for what the government
will do next and for upcoming economic data that may support
their view that the economy is bottoming.”  The CSI 300 Index added 1 point to 2,537.09 today, and was
up 0.1 percent for the week. The People’s Bank of China
announced a reduction in reserve ratios on Nov. 30, the first
since 2008, after boosting them and interest rates last year to
cool inflation. M2, the broadest measure of money supply,
expanded 12.4 percent in January from a year earlier, the lowest
in more than a decade.  Lower Growth  China may set a lower annual growth target at the annual
National People’s Congress meetings in March as authorities
place less emphasis on the pace of expansion and the global
economy remains weak, Fan, the head of the Economic Forecasting
Department at the center which is controlled by China’s top
economic planning agency, said in an interview yesterday.  Yanzhou Coal paced declines for coal producers on concern
slowing economic growth will reduce demand for energy. The stock
lost 1.2 percent to 25 yuan, while Shanxi Lu’an Environmental
Energy Development Co. dropped 0.9 percent to 24.13 yuan.  Fan said he doesn’t expect the central bank to lower the
reserve requirement ratio for commercial lenders in the first
quarter. A cut in  interest rates  is “not very likely” this
year because real deposit rates continue to be negative, he
said.  ‘Mother’ of All Bubbles  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, increased 94 basis points,
or 0.94 percentage point, to 5.31 percent as of 3:28 p.m. in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That’s the highest level
since Jan. 19.  “We are very concerned” about  China’s economy , Peter Chiappinelli, a portfolio strategist for  asset allocation  at
Boston-based Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co., said at the
Bloomberg Link Portfolio Manager Mash-Up Conference in  New York .  China’s housing market is experiencing the “mother” of
all bubbles, and a property slump will hurt everything from
Australian mining firms to  Europe ’s luxury-goods makers, said
Chiappinelli.  An index tracking  housing developers  in the  Shanghai 
Composite fell 1.1 percent this week, the most among the five
industry groups. Gemdale Corp. declined 0.8 percent to 5.30 yuan
today and slumped 4.7 percent this week, the biggest drop among
property stocks.  The real-estate gauge slumped 18 percent last year as the
government limited mortgages and restricted home purchases to
rein in  home prices  that increased in the previous two years.
The cooling market helped slow gross domestic product growth in
2011 to 9.2 percent, matching the smallest expansion since 2002.  Property Curbs  China will “unwaveringly” maintain property curbs in both
the long and short term, the Economic Information Daily quoted
Qin Hong, head of the policy research center under the Ministry
of Housing and Urban-Rural Development, as saying.  Local governments will face “relatively large” fiscal
pressure this year because of public housing investment and debt
repayments, according to Qin.  China  Life rose 1.8 percent to 18.59 yuan after it said
last month’s premium income increased to 49.1 billion yuan ($7.8
billion) from 43.9 billion yuan a year ago.  Tourism Stocks  China International Travel Service Corp. led gains for
tourism companies, rising 1.6 percentt o 26.71 yuan, after the
government said it would increase financial support for the
industry.  China will encourage local government financial support for
the  tourism industry , the listing of industry companies and
support the merger of listed firms, the People’s Bank of China
said in a statement yesterday. It will also help improve payment
and settlement services for the industry, it said.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose to a one-week high as
China Mobile Ltd. and Cnooc Ltd. jumped on speculation of more
monetary easing.  China may cut banks’ reserve requirements three more times
in the first half, after the central bank said this week it is
targeting greater growth in  money supply  in 2012, HSBC Holdings
Plc economists said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  