-- U.S. Exporters Make Record Single-Day Soybean Sale to China
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-02-17T20:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/china-soybean-import-tops-one-day-record-as-ties-with-u-s-growers-expand.html
Soybean exporters in the U.S., the
world’s top shipper, sold 2.923 million metric tons to  China  in
the biggest one-day deal on record. Prices in Chicago rose to
the highest in almost five months.  The sale includes 2.75 million tons for delivery in the
year that begins Sept. 1 and 173,000 tons prior to Aug. 31, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today in a statement. China
is the largest oilseed importer and the biggest buyer of U.S.
agricultural products.  U.S. and Chinese officials yesterday signed a five-year
accord to cooperate on agricultural production and trade and
food security. This week, China signed agreements in  Iowa  to
purchase 8.62 million tons of soybeans as Chinese Vice President
 Xi Jinping  visited the state. The Asian nation purchased $22.17
billion of U.S. farm products last year, helping to boost total
exports to a record.  “No doubt those were whopper sales,”  Don Roose , the
president of U.S. Commodities Inc. in  West Des Moines , Iowa,
said in a telephone interview. “With the Chinese in town,
there’s something to that.”  Cargill, ADM Sales  Companies including Cargill Inc. and Archer Daniels Midland
Co. signed contracts on Feb. 15 to export $4.3 billion of
soybeans to China. U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, who
met with Xi and Chinese farm minister Han Changfu in Iowa during
their visit this week, said the sales highlight a strong
relationship he expects will expand.  “I have a good relationship with the Chinese agriculture
minister, and I think these discussions will bring progress
later” on boosting sales of soybeans and other products,
including some U.S. beef cuts currently banned in the country,
Vilsack said.  Soybean futures for May delivery rose 0.7 percent to close
at $12.7375 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade.
Earlier, the price reached $12.795, the highest for the most-
active contract since Sept. 23.  “Agriculture has become one of the highlights in U.S.-
Chinese relations,” Han said yesterday at a symposium in  Des
Moines . “Agriculture has had a huge benefit on both
countries.”  The U.S. is the largest exporter of agricultural products.
China, the most-populous country, bought $10.5 billion of the
U.S. soybean crop last year, 29 percent of total production,
according to USDA data.  Global soybean consumption has soared in the past decade,
fueled by economic growth in China,  India  and Brazil that
boosted incomes and demand for vegetable oil used in fried and
baked foods, candy and breads. People also are eating more meat,
increasing the need for the oilseed to make livestock feed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  