-- Christie’s Veto of New Jersey Gay-Marriage Bill Sets Up Fight on Override
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/christie-vetoes-same-sex-marriage-bill-sent-to-him-by-new-jersey-lawmakers.html
Governor Chris Christie fulfilled
his pledge to veto a bill that would have legalized same-sex
marriage in  New Jersey (STONJ1) , setting up an override fight between the
Republican and Democrats who control the Legislature.  The move by Christie, 49, came shortly before lawmakers in
 Maryland  approved a similar measure, with the support of
Governor  Martin O’Malley , a Democrat. Backers of the New Jersey
bill said they’ll work to pass it over the veto by Christie.  “For someone who has national aspirations in the
Republican party right now, I think there’s not much choice but
to take this position,” Ken Sherrill, who teaches politics at
 Hunter College  in New York, said yesterday by telephone.  Christie has said he believes that marriage should be
between a man and a woman and that the issue should be decided
by a statewide ballot measure. Voters in states around the
nation have rejected gay marriage in all 31 referendums dealing
with the question. Washington Governor Christine Gregoire, a
Democrat, on Feb. 13 made that state the seventh to let same-sex
couples wed, joining  New York , Massachusetts,  Connecticut ,  Iowa ,
 New Hampshire ,  Vermont  and the  District of Columbia .  A bill to permit same-sex marriage passed Maryland’s House
of Delegates 71-67 yesterday, moving the issue to the Senate,
which approved a similar measure last year.  Christie Seeks Changes  In rejecting the legislation in Trenton yesterday, Christie
invoked a “conditional veto,” which lets him return the
measure to lawmakers asking for changes. He suggested creating
an ombudsman to tighten enforcement of the civil-union law that
pertains to same-sex couples and renewed his referendum push.  “I am adhering to what I’ve said since this bill was first
introduced -- an issue of this magnitude and importance, which
requires a constitutional amendment, should be left to the
people of  New Jersey  to decide,” Christie said in a statement.  Garden State Democrats have countered that marriage is a
civil right and shouldn’t be subjected to a popular vote.
They’ve made the issue a priority, two years after failing to
pass a similar bill supported by then-Governor  Jon Corzine , a
Democrat. Christie’s move was condemned by advocacy groups
including Freedom to Marry.  “Whenever you put equal rights for minorities on the
ballot, minorities lose -- everyone knows that and Christie’s
not an idiot,” said Sherrill, a former New York elected
official who is married to another man. “‘Let the people vote’
has been a chant from the opponents of marriage equality going
back to the  Massachusetts  days.”  Two Years  Sponsors of the rejected bill have almost two years before
the legislative session ends to assemble the two-thirds majority
needed to overcome Christie’s veto. Supporters need 27 votes in
the Senate, where Democrats have a 24-16 margin, and 54 in the
Assembly, where the party holds a 48-32 edge. The measure passed
42-33 in the Assembly Feb. 16 and 24-16 in the Senate Feb. 13.  “We will override this veto,”  Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a West Deptford Democrat, said in a statement. He said
on Feb. 13 that “there’s not a chance in hell” he’d bring a
bill authorizing a ballot measure to a vote in his chamber.  “This is about nothing but feeding into peoples’
prejudices against gays and lesbians,” said Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, a gay Democrat representing Trenton who sponsored the
measure. “This is not going to destroy anybody’s marriage. It
just doesn’t make any sense.”  Ambitious Move  Steven Goldstein, chairman of Garden State Equality, a gay-
rights group that supported the measure, said he believes
Christie’s opposition comes from national political ambitions
and seeking to appease the socially conservative wing of his
party. He called the veto a “brutally anti-gay act.”  “I don’t think  Chris Christie  has an anti-gay bone in his
body,” Goldstein said. Christie vetoed the bill “because the
2016 South Carolina Republican presidential primary electorate
is anti-gay.”  Christie, speaking to reporters on Feb. 14, said he didn’t
believe Democrats could muster the votes for an override. He has
said he would abide by the results of a referendum, and that he
believes such a question probably would pass in New Jersey,
where polls show a majority of voters support same-sex marriage.  The New Jersey Family Policy Council, which has opposed the
practice, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on
the veto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at   edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  