-- Christie’s New Jersey Tax Cut Imperiled by Increase in Debt, Pension Costs
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/christie-n-j-tax-cut-imperiled-by-rise-in-debt-pension-costs.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor  Chris Christie 
will say next week how he’ll pay for the first phase of a 10
percent income-tax cut for the second-wealthiest U.S. state’s
residents even as he deals with as much as $1.3 billion in
higher costs for pensions and debt.  Christie, a 49-year-old Republican who’s set to deliver his
third budget on Feb. 21 in Trenton, declined to offer specifics
of the spending plan for the year starting July 1. He’s expected
to call for $150 million in income-tax cuts as a “down
payment” on his pledge to cut the levy across all brackets.  While revenue for the six months through December rose 3
percent compared with the same period in 2010, it was still $326
million less than projected in the current $29.7 billion budget.
Rising pension costs and a slow recovery from the longest
recession since World War II led  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings to lower the state’s credit
grade last year.  “It is concerning if you can’t tell us how you’re going to
pay for the cut in the revenue,” Jamie Pagliocco, director of
municipal-bond portfolio managers at  Fidelity Investments , said
yesterday at a Bloomberg Link conference in  New York  .  “If they’re going to start cutting income taxes, that’s
going to play well with the voters,” said Pagliocco, who helps
oversee $29.5 billion in muni securities from Merrimack,  New
Hampshire . “But I don’t know how they’re going to supplement
their income to take care of the structural issues that still
exist.”  Separate Bill  Christie would need to introduce his income-tax cut as a
bill separate from the budget. Assembly Majority Leader  Louis Greenwald , a Cherry Hill Democrat, and others in his party who
hold a majority in both legislative houses, have urged Christie
to abandon the plan. They would rather focus on lowering local
property levies, the nation’s highest at an average of $7,759 in
2011, according to the state Community Affairs Department.  Debt-service, pension and benefit costs may consume 30
percent of New Jersey’s revenue in coming years, Moody’s has
said. The governor has said his 2013 spending plan won’t push
recurring budget concerns into the future.  New Jersey isn’t alone in finding that the 18-month
recession that began in December 2007 is tough to shake off.
Twenty-nine states have predicted  deficits  totaling $44 billion
in the coming budget year, according to the Washington-based
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a nonprofit researcher.  Tax Cut’s Cost  Christie’s proposed income- tax cut  would cost the state
$150 million in fiscal 2013, rising to $1.3 billion in 2016,
 David Rosen , the Legislature’s chief budget analyst, said Jan.
30. Along with that lost income-tax revenue, the state will
forgo $163 million in the coming year under a business-tax
reduction plan Christie signed last year.  Last year, Christie cut almost $1 billion in funding for
schools, police and working-poor tax credits that Democrats had
added to the current budget. In a move that averted a potential
government shutdown, Christie unilaterally made the cuts through
line-item vetoes while rejecting a separate bill raising income
taxes on those earning more than $1 million.  The governor’s plan to reduce wage levies may be hampered
by debt payments of more than $3 billion, about $182 million
more than Christie covered in the current spending plan,
according to the state’s most-recent report on borrowing. About
$23 million of that growth stems from a $294.2 million payment
on a 1997 pension-funding bond issued under former Republican
Governor Christie Whitman.  Future Years  Senator Richard Codey, a Democrat who sought unsuccessfully
to reduce pension benefits during his 14-month stint as acting
governor in 2004 and 2005, said the bonds were designed to cover
pension costs as revenue dropped from Whitman’s 30 percent
income-tax cut. The borrowing was structured to push the highest
payments into future years, he said.  “You don’t know what the economy is going to look like
down the road,” Codey said in an interview. “Everybody wants a
tax cut -- you, me and everyone else. The reality is that you
don’t know when it’s going to come back and bite you.”  Democrats say Christie’s income-tax cut favors the wealthy
and ignores the high property-tax burden that has plagued  New
Jersey  homeowners for decades. The governor already had touched
off conflict with the Legislature by vowing to veto a same-sex
marriage bill approved by the Senate Feb. 13 and passed by the
Assembly yesterday.  ‘Tough Decisions’  Christie said he has made “tough decisions” on spending.
“I’m the only person who hasn’t blown the budget out in the
last decade from either party,” he said Feb. 15 while
announcing a school-construction plan in West New York.  “You can be assured that if anybody is going to be
fiscally responsible, it’s going to be me,” he said.  Christie’s budget for the current year relies on $300
million in Medicaid savings through a comprehensive waiver from
federal guidelines that has yet to be approved by regulators in
 Washington . The state sought federal assent for instituting
managed care in the jointly funded program for the poor.  New Jersey’s efforts to close deficits haven’t prevented
investors from increasing the amount of interest they demand to
hold state and local debt. The gap between the yield on New
Jersey securities and an index of top-rated municipal bonds was
45 basis points on Feb. 16, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The difference has increased by about 10 basis points
since Christie took office in January 2010. A basis point is
one-hundredth of a percentage point.  ‘Blanket Statements’  “It’s always a concern when you just have blanket
statements made,” Thomas Metzold, co-director of municipal
investments at Eaton Vance Management in  Boston , said of
Christie’s tax-cut plan during the Bloomberg Link conference.  “Similar to our current federal budget, there’s a lot of
spending, but no way to pay for it,” he said. “There has to be
an offset, and we’ll continue to monitor that.”  State Senator Steven Oroho, a Republican from Sparta who
serves on the budget committee, said Christie will be able to
balance the competing needs of tax cuts and growing costs. While
the economy has improved in New Jersey and nationally, Oroho
said growth hasn’t occurred as quickly as he and others had
hoped for based on previous recoveries.  “Unfortunately he’s got the legacy costs to take care of
and an uncompetitive position, but I think he can balance his
budget,” Oroho said in an interview. “It’d be a heck of a lot
easier if the economy was coming back quicker here, and
nationally as well. ”  Road Fund  Christie also needs to finance transportation projects as
the Transportation Trust Fund, which pays for road work, runs
out of money for new projects. The authority in April voted to
sell its final $600 million in authorized debt before payments
on past bonds consume its entire $895 million in annual revenue.  Every governor going back to Whitman, including the
previous chief executive,  Jon Corzine , has played a role in
underfunding pensions, according to Christie. The retirement
fund had 67.5 percent of the assets needed to meet promised
benefits as of June 30, state data released last month show.  Under a 2010 law, the state is required to phase in full
funding of its retirement contributions over seven years. That
will cost taxpayers $484 million this year.  New Jersey may be obliged to provide as much as twice that
amount, or $968 million, in fiscal 2013, under the law’s
formula.  Andrew Pratt , a Treasury spokesman, said actuaries
haven’t yet determined how much the state will need to
contribute to the pension next year.  While the governor seeks lower income taxes, Greenwald, the
Democratic leader from  Cherry Hill , said he’s never had a
constituent call him or stop in his office to complain about
them. He said someone earning $50,000 would pay $80 less while a
person making $1 million would save $7,200. He said he doesn’t
expect Democrats to support the measure.  “He’s not breaking the bank with that issue,” Greenwald
said in an interview. “His bigger problems are that he’s got to
double up his pension payment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum. 