-- Christie Holds Veto Over New Jersey Gay Marriage Legislation
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h
-- 2012-02-17T17:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/christie-holds-veto-over-new-jersey-gay-marriage-legislation-1-.html
New Jersey (STONJ1) ’s Republican Governor
 Chris Christie  has 45 days to fulfill his promise to veto a bill
passed by the Democratic-led Legislature that would legalize gay
marriage.  The legislation was delivered to Christie’s office this
morning after it passed the Assembly yesterday and the Senate on
Feb. 13. New Jersey Democrats have made legalizing same-sex
marriage a priority, two years after they failed to pass a
similar bill supported by then-Governor  Jon Corzine , a Democrat.  Christie, 49, has said he believes that marriage should be
between a man and a woman, and that voters should decide the
issue. Steven Goldstein, chairman of gay-rights group Garden
State Equality, said he thinks Christie isn’t homophobic, and
that his opposition comes from national political ambitions and
appeasing the socially conservative wing of his party.  “I don’t think Chris Christie has an anti-gay bone in his
body,” Goldstein said today in a statement. “He won’t veto the
bill because he’s anti-gay. He’ll veto the bill because the 2016
South Carolina Republican Presidential primary electorate is
anti-gay.”  Christie in October spurned Republican calls to run for
president this year, and endorsed former  Massachusetts  Governor
Mitt Romney. He has declined to rule out becoming Romney’s vice
presidential running mate, or seeking the White House in 2016.  Override Effort  Democrats control the New Jersey Assembly, 48-32, and the
Senate, 24-16. The bill needed 41 votes to pass the Assembly and
21 to pass the Senate. It was approved 42-33 in the
Assembly and 24-16 in the Senate.  “This is a great day for equality and I just hope the
governor pays attention to what happened here,” said Reed Gusciora, an Assembly Democrat from Trenton who’s gay. “He’d do
a great service for equality by signing the bill into law or by
simply walking away and letting it become law without his
signature.”  Sponsors said they’ll work to gather the two-thirds
majority in each chamber needed to override a veto. They would
need 27 supporters in the Senate and 54 in the Assembly.  ‘Swift Action’  “They are going to be nowhere near the votes to override
in either chamber,” Christie said Feb. 14 in his Trenton
office.  “Believe me, I will take very swift action on the bill,”
he said. “And we can move on to the things the people of  New
Jersey  say are most important to them, which are creating jobs,
lowering taxes and continuing the New Jersey comeback.”  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, declined to say
when the governor will strike down the bill.  Lawmakers seeking an override have almost two years, the
time remaining in the legislative session, to act. Goldstein,
the pro-gay marriage activist, said his group will use that time
to build support and press ahead with a legal challenge of the
state’s civil-union statute.  Supporters of gay and lesbian marriage contend the civil-
union law fails to guarantee those couples equal protection.
Democrats and advocates say that marriage is a civil right and
putting it to a vote in a referendum, as Christie wants, would
be improper.  31 Rejections  Voters nationwide have rejected gay marriage in all 31
referendums on the issue. New Jersey Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a West Deptford Democrat, said this week “there’s not
a chance in hell” he’d bring a referendum bill to a vote.  Washington Governor Christine Gregoire signed a bill this
week to make her state the seventh to grant same-sex couples the
right to marry.  New York , Massachusetts,  Connecticut ,  Iowa ,  New
Hampshire ,  Vermont  and the  District of Columbia  already permit
same-sex weddings.  Maryland’s House of Delegates, which last year stood in the
way of gay marriage legislation, may soon vote on a similar
measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  