-- Citigroup Names Bakhshi Head of Japan Markets Following Libor Suspension
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-02-17T19:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/citigroup-names-bakhshi-head-of-japan-markets-following-libor-suspension.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  appointed a new head
of its Japanese markets business as Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit  seeks to rebuild in the country after receiving
the third regulatory punishment in seven years in December.  Suneel Bakhshi was appointed president and CEO of Citigroup
Global Markets Japan, according to a statement on the New York-
based bank’s website. Bakhshi is currently chief risk officer of
Citigroup’s commercial bank, according to the statement.  Bakhshi is taking over duties from Brian Mccappin, who the
bank said in December would resign after the unit was banned for
two weeks from trading tied to the London and Tokyo interbank
offered rates. Citigroup staff attempted to improperly influence
the rates, the Japanese Financial Services Agency said. The bank
was also suspended from soliciting sales of certain products to
retail customers after failing to fully explain their risk.  Citigroup said Mccappin would resign after regulators
announced the ban, and apologized to customers in a statement in
response to the FSA’s allegations.  “Citibank  Japan  takes the administrative action very
seriously and sincerely apologizes to its customers and all
other concerned parties,” the company said on its website.
“The bank is implementing measures to prevent future occurrence
of the problems identified, and is committed to executing and
completing the business improvement plan.”  Thirty Years  James “Jamie” Forese, head of Citigroup’s securities and
banking unit, said in an internal memorandum obtained by
Bloomberg News that Bakhshi has held several senior positions in
trading, banking, and risk management during his 30-year career
at Citigroup.  “His balanced viewpoint and broad skill set will help him
provide great leadership for the CGMJ business as we move
forward,” Forese said.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup,
confirmed the memo’s contents. Shuntaro Higashi, the unit’s
interim president and CEO, will continue as chairman of the
business, according to the statement.  -- Editors: Steve Dickson, Dan Kraut  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 