-- Citigroup to Let Managers Take Stakes in Its Hedge Funds as Volcker Looms
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n ,   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2012-02-17T17:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/citigroup-s-havens-says-managers-to-own-part-of-hedge-fund-unit.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, will let managers of its hedge funds own
part of the business ahead of rules that limit shareholders’
cash in the unit, Chief Operating Officer  John Havens  said.  Employees in the  Citi Capital Advisors  division, or CCA,
will get a “significant” stake in managing the funds, Havens
said in an interview. This will increase, he said, as  New York- 
based Citigroup withdraws its own money and attracts outside
investors to comply with the Volcker rule, which restricts
deposit-taking banks from making bets with their own capital.  “Our competitors are an owner-operated model,” Havens
said during an interview in his 39th-floor corner office at
Citigroup’s Greenwich Street building in  Manhattan . “It was
always in the plans but you have to actually have a business
that you’re comfortable with to go do it.”  Havens and Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 55, are
seeking to replace the company’s cash in CCA with funds from
outsiders as regulators draft the Volcker rule’s final language.
The proposed rule would prohibit banks from owning more than 3
percent of hedge funds and private-equity funds and from
investing more than 3 percent of  Tier 1 capital  in the funds.  “We’re trying to create a client-centric, alternative
asset-management business, and this is the final stage of
putting that in place,” Havens said. “Clients like independent
asset managers.”  Citigroup  advanced  19 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $32.90 at
12:20 p.m. in New York. The stock has gained 24 percent this
year through yesterday after tumbling 44 percent in  2011 .  Dorfman, O’Brien  Former Morgan Stanley executives Jonathan Dorfman and  James O’Brien  run CCA, which managed  $18.2 billion  in private-equity,
venture-capital and  hedge funds , Citigroup said in August.  Citigroup had at least $5 billion in the funds, a person
familiar with the matter said in May. The company also invested
about $800 million of its money in internal private-equity and
hedge funds in the third quarter, according to a November
regulatory filing.  Attracting external capital would help Citigroup withdraw
its money without forcing the closure of funds that hold mostly
company cash. If the firm wanted to keep $5 billion with CCA and
comply with the Volcker rule’s 3 percent cap, the funds would
have to contain $161.7 billion from outside investors, or 69
percent more than the bank’s current market value.  Citigroup didn’t provide details about how it would divest
its ownership of the hedge-fund unit.  Top Managers  “The actual drafting of the terms are under way,”
Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Formulas are currently being negotiated that
would allow CCA’s management to acquire a portion of Citi’s
interest in CCA, including their ability to replace a portion of
Citi’s existing capital with third-party capital.”  Offering a stake in CCA will help Citigroup attract top
managers, Havens said. Hedge-fund managers typically earn 2
percent of the assets they oversee and 20 percent of the profit.
The change follows a year in which some of the bank’s hedge
funds posted losses, people with direct knowledge of the matter
said. The Bloomberg aggregate hedge-fund index fell 5.2 percent
in 2011.  The  Strategic Credit Fund , which invests in riskier debt,
fell about 13 percent, said one of the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the figures aren’t public. The
fund, managed by Fred Hoffman, has about $200 million under
management, almost all of which belongs to shareholders, the
person said.  Rajesh Kumar’s  Mortgage/Credit Opportunity Fund  declined
about 4.2 percent, two people said. The fund contains about $400
million, most of it Citigroup’s own cash, one person said.  Event Driven Fund  Mukesh Patel’s  Event Driven Fund , which manages about $500
million, dropped 1.8 percent, one of the people said. Kevin Bespolka’s $250 million  Global Macro Fund  lost about 11 percent
and the $150 million  European Credit Opportunities Fund  slid 2.8
percent.  Other funds gained. A $370 million  municipal-bond fund 
managed by Craig Henick and Edward Sun climbed about 6 percent
and Mark Franklin’s  Emerging Markets Special Opportunities Fund ,
with $900 million under management, advanced 0.4 percent,
according to the people.  Some of the managers used to work for Pandit and Havens at
Old Lane Partners LP, the hedge fund the pair founded after they
left  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in 2005. Citigroup bought Old Lane for $800
million in 2007 in a deal that ultimately led to Pandit becoming
CEO later that year. The bank shut that fund in 2008, purchasing
its assets and allowing investors to take their money out.  ‘We Are Pleased’  Havens declined to give CCA’s performance for 2011.
Citigroup doesn’t disclose the unit’s  revenue  or performance.
Net income at the securities-and-banking division, which holds
the company’s trading and investment-banking divisions, tumbled
24 percent to $4.86 billion in 2011.  “It can always be better,” Havens said. “But we are
pleased with the performance in that, on an asset-weighted
basis, we’re top quartile in our hedge-fund strategies.”  Pandit and Havens are among Wall Street bosses grappling
with the implications of the Volcker rule, which also seeks to
restrict so-called proprietary trading, in which banks’ trading
desks make bets with shareholders’ funds. Citigroup shut a
London-based proprietary trading unit earlier this year with
most of its staff leaving the bank, according to an internal
memo obtained by Bloomberg News at the time. Morgan Stanley and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have already exited similar businesses.  ‘Important Clients’  Havens planned in 2010 to raise $3 billion over three years
for CCA and outside investors already have put in $2.6 billion,
he said.  Most of the external capital that CCA manages belongs to
so-called ultra high-net-worth individuals, sovereign-wealth
funds and pension and endowment funds, according to a Dec. 31,
2010, internal document obtained by Bloomberg News.  “They’re critically important clients for this company,”
Havens said. “They’re the largest, most sophisticated pools of
assets in the world.”  Havens declined to say whether Citigroup would keep any
shareholder cash in the funds once the proposed rule, named for
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , takes effect.  “We are a big believer in alternative asset management and
we have huge faith in the management team at CCA,” Havens said.
“I don’t put money in businesses I don’t like.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Effinger in Portland at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Serrill at +1-212-617-6767 or
 mserrill@bloomberg.net  