-- City of Milan Negotiating New Swap Terms With Foreign Banks
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-02-17T23:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/city-of-milan-says-it-s-negotiating-new-swap-terms-with-banks.html
The City of Milan is in talks with
four foreign banks to annul interest-rate swap agreements in
return for about 400 million euros ($526 million) from the
institutions.  The amount represents Milan’s mark-to-market gain on the
swaps and will be invested in deposits and government bonds,
generating an estimated return of about 350 million euros over
23 years, city officials said at a press conference today.  Milan plans to drop claims for damages as part of a
criminal trial involving the lenders:  JPMorgan Chase & Co., 
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Dublin-based Depfa Bank Plc and  UBS AG. (UBS)  They
face charges of mis-selling swaps to the municipal government of
 Italy ’s business capital.  The city so far has made money on the swap agreements, said
David Corritore, a Milan official. Milan will use the 750
million euros of proceeds to cover interest payments on its
outstanding bonds, which will bear a fixed interest rate of
about 4 percent.  The city is in talks with banks to define new terms on its
derivative agreements, according to an e-mailed statement.  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman for Zurich-based UBS in  New
York , said “negotiations are currently taking place,” and
declined to comment further.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman
for New York-based JPMorgan, declined to comment on the talks.  Spokesmen for Depfa and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank also
had no immediate comment.  Swap Goals  Across Italy, cities faced with shrinking income and rising
expenses bought swaps from banks to cut short-term interest
costs, putting them at risk of paying more in the long run.
About 300 municipalities were losing a total of 912 million
euros on such derivatives as of March last year, Bank of Italy
data show.  Local governments and regulators in  Germany  and the U.S.
also have brought cases against banks over derivatives
contracts.  U.S. states, municipalities and nonprofit institutions such
as  Harvard University  paid more than $4 billion in fees to banks
when the derivatives, sold as a way to minimize risk, exploded
as the housing market’s collapse cascaded through financial
markets.  Jefferson County,  Alabama , was pushed toward bankruptcy as
it and other governments were saddled with soaring costs tied to
interest-rate swaps just as the longest recession since World
War II took hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  