-- Clinton’s Charm Blunts His Errors in Documentary; ’Good Wife’: TV Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/clinton-s-charm-blunts-his-errors-in-film-good-wife-review.html
In 1973, Hillary Rodham told her
boss at the White House that her  Arkansas  beau was coming to
visit.  “He’s going to be President of the  United States ,”
Rodham, a recent Yale Law School grad working an entry-level
job, told a skeptical Bernard Nussbaum, then-White House
counsel.  Her certitude -- recounted in Barak Goodman’s absorbing
documentary “Clinton” -- seems as much mission statement as
romantic guile.  The ever-fascinating partnership of Bill and  Hillary
Clinton  overshadows all else in a four-hour film that stretches
from William Jefferson Clinton’s hardscrabble childhood in Hope,
Arkansas, to the day in January 2001 when furniture movers had
to all but drag him out of the Oval Office.  Covering both the personal and the political, and with
participation from 70 Clinton administration insiders,
journalists, foes and friends, “Clinton” is the eighth entry
in the  Public Broadcasting Service’s  ongoing “Presidents”
series of “The American Experience” documentaries.  This installment is among the most compelling, on par with
“Reagan” and “The Kennedys,” if not matching the series’
pinnacle “Abraham and Mary Lincoln: A House Divided” in epic
scope.  No Bill, Hill  In keeping with the series’ ground rules, neither the
former president nor his First Lady were invited to sit for new
interviews (Goodman has said he wanted to avoid allowing the
documentary to become “memoir”). Their absence is barely felt,
given the abundance of archival footage and personal photos that
document every phase of Clinton’s life and career.  More questionable is Goodman’s decision to exclude both
 Monica Lewinsky  and Linda Tripp, two key players -- unwitting or
complicit -- in the Republican-led attempt to topple the Clinton
presidency.  Perhaps surprisingly, the pre-Lewinsky era -- covered in
the first of the film’s two parts -- is the more captivating.
Goodman convincingly sketches the personality of a boy raised by
a violent, alcoholic stepfather and an unconventional, working-
class mother with “exuberant” hairstyles, make-up and jewelry
(“Virginia was fun,” recalls a friend, with an emphasis on the
last word).  Smitten  Clinton, in this telling, is dutiful and ambitious, with a
reckless need to be worshipped. When the brainy, straightforward
Rodham approaches the flirtatious Bill in a Yale library, the
two are smitten -- he with her drive and intelligence, she with
his wild-haired good looks and BMOC charisma.  In keeping with other entries in the “American
Experience” presidents series, “Clinton” is more admiring
than critical, though it doesn’t whitewash the man’s
shortcomings.  “He came to office in 1992,” says columnist (and
“Primary Colors” author) Joe Klein in the film. “He left a
stronger country in 2000. And it was sure was a lot of fun to
watch.”  “Clinton” airs on PBS Monday at 9 p.m. and Tuesday at 8
p.m.  New York  time. Rating: **1/2  ‘The Good Wife’  Afterglow fades fast on “The Good Wife,” the durable  CBS (CBS) 
legal drama that moves with the steady, building drive of a
well-made closing argument.  Midway through its third season -- and well beyond the
scorned-woman premise that gave the show its title -- “The Good
Wife” has barely paused to acknowledge the long-teased sexual
encounter between colleagues Alicia Florrick (Julianna Margulies) and Will Gardner (Josh Charles) that ended the second
season.  Thank goodness. Sidestepping the easy gimmick of yo-yo
sexual tension -- Will they? Won’t they? Will they again? --
“The Good Wife” forges on with its fine blend of grown-up
character drama and big-issue court cases.  This Sunday’s episode, “Live From Damascus,” finds Alicia
and Will championing a class-action case against an American
software billionaire (John Benjamin Hickey) accused of selling
spyware to the repressive Syrian government.  Will, meanwhile, is facing a personal crisis: Potential
disbarment for a long-ago financial transgression.  Charles, as increasingly usual, is the episode’s solid rock
(Margulies is a generous star, to a fault), and Archie Panjabi
as the firm’s trouble-shooting investigator Kalinda Sharma is
deployed once again as the series’ most reliable weapon.  Compared to newer innovators like Showtime’s “Homeland”
or even  Fox (NWSA) ’s “American Horror Story,” “The Good Wife”
breaks little new ground. But it knows how to win.  “The Good Wife” airs Sunday on CBS at 9 p.m. New York
time. Rating: ***  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Greg Evans  at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 