-- Coal Turns Ugly as Gas Cuts Use to 20-Year Low: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-02-17T20:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/coal-turns-ugly-as-tumbling-gas-cuts-demand-to-20-year-low-energy-markets.html
Coal demand in the U.S. is
collapsing as power companies switch away from the  fossil fuel 
to take advantage of the cheapest natural gas in 10 years.  Use of coal to  generate electricity  will drop 2 percent
this year to the lowest since 1992, while gas-fired consumption
rises 5.6 percent, according to the Energy Department. Gas
prices have tumbled to the weakest levels since February 2002
this year amid a boom in output and milder-than-normal weather.  Appalachian coal, the U.S. benchmark grade, sank 15 percent
in January and is down 26 percent from a 2011 high, prompting
companies from Alpha Natural Resources Inc. to Patriot Coal
Corp. and Arch Coal Inc. to close mines. Natural gas has dropped
31 percent in the past year as higher-than-average temperatures
cut demand and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, at shale
formations drove inventories to record highs.  “It’s very ugly,” J. Christopher Haberlin, a Richmond,
Virginia-based analyst at Davenport & Co., an investment
brokerage, said by phone on Feb. 15. “Gas is a major driver and
the oversupply there has been well documented, but adding to the
pain is the unseasonably mild winter we’re having.”  Gas costs for  power plants  plunged to the equivalent of
$1.16 per million British thermal units less than coal on Jan.
19, the biggest discount since coal futures began trading in
2001, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. The
difference was 72.7 cents per million Btu as of 1:41 p.m. in  New
York . Coal was at $58.95 a ton on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  yesterday. Natural gas for March delivery rose 4.6
percent to settle at $2.684 per million Btu today in New York.  Declining Demand  Arch, the second-largest U.S. producer, said Feb. 10 that
coal  used to generate power  may drop by at least 50 million tons
this year. The company is reducing output at the Dugout Canyon
mine in  Utah  in the first half of the year.  Patriot said this month that it will shut its Big Mountain
complex in  West Virginia , which produced 1.8 million tons of
coal last year. Alpha plans to idle six operations between
February and early 2013, it said this month, and will alter work
schedules and cut production crews at some of its other mines,
citing weak demand.  Spokesmen for Arch, Alpha and Patriot didn’t return
telephone messages left yesterday for comment.  U.S. natural-gas prices are in a “stable” range that is
low enough to encourage power generators to switch from coal in
the Powder River Basin, which holds the largest and least
expensive U.S. coal reserves, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Still,  gas prices  are high enough to keep producers from
cutting production,  David Greely , Goldman’s head of energy
research in New York, wrote in a note dated yesterday.  Spurring Substitution  “While low Nymex natural-gas prices are motivating Powder
River Basin coal-to-gas substitution, power generation demand
for natural gas has also increased in other regions of the
country, resulting in very strong overall demand from power
generators so far this year,” Greely said.  Total coal consumption for the week ended Feb. 16 was down
4.3 percent from a year earlier, according to Genscape Inc., a
Louisville, Kentucky-based data provider, which monitors coal
use by power producers with devices installed at the plants.  Utilities may have about 168.4 million tons of coal in
inventory at the end of this year, the lowest level since 2008,
Energy Department  data  show.  Gas production in the lower 48 U.S. states rose 1.3 percent
in November to a record 72.61 billion cubic feet a day, driven
by gains in states that contain shale reserves, the Energy
Department said Jan. 30 in its monthly EIA-914 report. Supplies
for the week ended Feb. 10, were about  38 percent above  the
five-year average.  Warmest January  The average temperature in the contiguous U.S. for January
was 36.3 degrees Fahrenheit (2.4 degrees Celsius) or 5.5 degrees
above the 1901-2000 average, making it the warmest January since
2006 and the fourth-warmest on record, according to the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , curbing demand for
heating fuels.  Utilities and electricity transmission organizations that
have both coal and gas plants in their portfolios are relying
more on the cheaper fuel to produce power, said  Christopher Peterson , lead industry economist for the Office of Energy
Statistics at the Energy Information Administration, a unit of
U.S. Energy Department.  Power Generation  Coal accounts for about 45 percent of electricity
generation, while gas totals about 24 percent, Energy Department
data show.  Use of coal for power  generation  will drop this year to
916.4 million tons, the smallest amount since 1992, according to
the Energy Department. Gas-fired power production will increase
5.6 percent as electricity demand rises just 0.4 percent, the
department said in an outlook report on Feb. 7.  “It’s not the best-kept secret in the world that gas is
hurting coal burn,” Mike Dudas, an analyst at Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc., a Birmingham, Alabama-based brokerage, said by phone
on Feb. 15. “One thing that’s not going to help coal is 40-
degree weather in  Chicago  in February.”  Coal is unlikely to receive a boost from foreign demand as
it did last year as economies in  Europe  struggle to stave off a
recession amid rising debt, Haberlin said.  Exports  are expected
to fall 8.7 percent to 97.6 million tons this year from 107
million in 2011, which was the highest level since 1991,
according to Energy Department  data .  Foreign Sales  Europe was the  largest buyer  of U.S. coal last year through
September, accounting for about 50 percent of exports, according
to the most recent data from the Energy Department. The region’s
economy shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter from the prior
three months, the first contraction since the second quarter of
2009, the European Union’s statistic office in Luxembourg said
Feb. 16.  “The one real window of support has closed,” Lucas Pipes,
an analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in New York, said in a
phone interview. “You’re really not making money selling
thermal coal right now.”  Utilities are also switching to gas from coal because of an
impending government rule that calls for  Texas  and 26 eastern
states to cap sulfur dioxide to limit acid rain and soot.  Shutting Down  The rule, combined with the declines in gas prices, may
force utilities to close about 12 percent of the nation’s coal-
fired generating capacity, according to IHS CERA, an Englewood,
Colorado-based provider of energy data.  American Electric Power Co. (AEP)  and  Southern Co. (SO)  are among
power producers that plan to boost gas-fired output at the
expense of coal. Dominion Resources Inc. said Jan. 27 that it
would convert three of its coal units to burn wood.  “Our newest combined-cycle natural gas plants are
dispatching before any of our coal plants,” Duke Energy Corp.
Chief Executive Officer  Jim Rogers  said at a conference in New
York on Feb. 15. “We don’t see building another coal plant for
two to three decades.”  Mining costs to dig thermal coal out of the ground range
from $65 to $75 a ton for a Central Appalachian coal producer,
Levin said, as much as 27 percent more expensive than the
current price.  “It’s very difficult for a producer of steam coal to make
money in this environment,” Levin said. “There simply isn’t
demand for utility coal. Why would you continue to run?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  