-- Coal India Gains on Assurance of Mine Approvals: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-02-17T05:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/coal-india-gains-on-assurance-of-mine-approvals-mumbai-mover.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s largest
miner of the fuel, rose the most in three weeks after the
government said it will expedite mine approvals to help increase
production and meet demand from power producers.  The  shares  rose as much as 3.9 percent to 332.60 rupees,
the most since Jan. 25, and traded at 332 rupees as of 10:41
a.m. in Mumbai. The shares have risen 10 percent this year,
compared with a 19 percent gain in the key  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Coal India, facing a decline in output because of delays in
land acquisitions and environmental approvals, was assured by
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  that the clearances will be
expedited, Coal Secretary Alok Perti said yesterday in an
interview. The government has ordered the company to sign supply
accords for power projects due to be completed by March 2015 and
import the fuel to overcome local output bottlenecks.  “For Coal  India , there can be nothing as good as getting
quicker mining approvals,” said Deven Choksey, managing
director at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.
“That’s the only way the company can realize its potential and
meet demand.”  The company will sign supply contracts starting next month,
Perti said. The government’s decision came after Anil Ambani,
chairman of  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR) , and Gautam Adani, chairman of
 Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI) , joined Tata Power Co. Chairman Ratan Tata last
month in urging Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to help ease fuel
shortages.  Reliance Power, Tata Power and Lanco Infratech Ltd. rose
for the third straight day since the government’s Feb. 15 order.
The BSE Power Index has gained 9.7 percent during the time, the
most since May 2009.  Lanco (LANCI)  led gains today, rising as much as 24
percent to 25.10 rupees.  Coal India will pay a fine if supplies fall short of
commitments to supply. The penalty clause should inspire the
company to raise performance, Perti said. The mining company
hasn’t signed fuel agreements since April 2009, after saying it
could provide only 50 percent of the requirements of power
plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  