-- Audio of Roger Clemens’s 2008 Deposition on Drug Use Released by Congress
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-17T20:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/congress-releases-audio-recordings-of-clemens-s-deposition-on-drug-use.html
The  U.S. Congress  released audio of
a 2008 deposition of  Roger Clemens  that his lawyers argued was
needed to defend the ex-New York Yankees pitcher against charges
he lied to lawmakers about use of performance-enhancing drugs.  A House resolution releasing the recording to the
prosecutors, who will make them available to Clemens’s
attorneys, passed on a voice vote earlier today, said Salley
Wood, a spokeswoman for the House Administration Committee.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  chastised lawmakers last
year during Clemens’s original trial for withholding the audio,
saying failure to make it available could compromise the
defense, potentially affecting appeals if the seven-time record
Cy Young Award winner were convicted. That proceeding ended in a
mistrial. Clemens’s retrial is scheduled to begin on April 17.  “It doesn’t look good for our government” that Congress
won’t produce the audio of the deposition when the criminal
referral for Clemens’s prosecution came from Congress itself,”
Walton said July 6 in federal court in  Washington .  Ten of the 15 statements on which the obstruction of
Congress charges are based came from testimony Clemens gave
during his Feb. 5, 2008, deposition, according to the
indictment.  ‘Official’ Record  William Pittard, assistant counsel to the  House of
Representatives , argued last year that the transcript of the
deposition constitutes the “official” record, while the audio
recording is a “backup” and the property of Congress protected
by the Constitution’s speech and debate clause.  Clemens’s attorneys argued in court last year that the
transcript wasn’t sufficient. The tape was necessary to
understand the tone and context of the questions and Clemens’s
answers, according to the attorneys, led by  Rusty Hardin , a
Houston-based criminal defense attorney.  The only way the tapes could be released was by a
resolution of the House.  Hardin, like everyone involved in the case, is under a gag
order barring him from any comments outside of court. He
declined to discuss the release of the audio.  Clemens, 49, is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury in connection with a
congressional probe of the use of performance-enhancing drugs by
ballplayers. If convicted on all charges, he faces a $1.5
million fine and as long as 30 years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 mriley17@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net  