-- Conrad Says an Economic Crisis May Be Only Way to Prod Lawmakers on Debt
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/conrad-says-economic-shock-may-be-only-prod-to-lawmakers-on-debt-cutting.html
An economic catastrophe like the
debt crisis in  Europe  or a Middle East conflict may be the only
way to get congressional action this year on a broad reduction
of the U.S.  deficit , Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  said.  “If Europe tanks and begins to drag us down, it may become
an acute situation that requires a response,” Conrad said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “Second possibility is  Israel 
attacking  Iran . That could create a big run-up in  oil prices .
That could have dramatic economic effects and also require a
fuller long-term response by the  United States .”  The  North Dakota (BEESND)  Democrat, who has been in the Senate since
1987, said he blames lawmakers in both political parties -- and
the voters who elected them -- for intransigence on tax
increases, entitlement cuts and other tough choices that last
year quashed an effort to craft a 10-year debt-cutting plan.  He also criticized former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , who is leading in some polls for the Republican
presidential nomination. In the Senate, Santorum showed he is
someone with “no doubts about his position and very little
interest in the views of those who disagree with him,” Conrad
said.  Santorum ‘Unyielding’  “Absolutely unyielding,” he added a moment later. “And
uncompromising. And unfortunately, you know, my own view of
what’s necessary here is the left and the right have to get off
their fixed positions if we’re going to get this country back on
track.”  Asked about those comments after an event yesterday in
Columbus,  Ohio , Santorum said he has a record as a “principled
conservative” who achieved results.  “If you’re unyielding, you don’t get the things
accomplished that we did,” Santorum said. “We got a lot of
stuff done, and we got a lot of bipartisan support for doing
it.”  Conrad, 63, who is retiring at the end of this year, also
predicted Democrats will keep control of the Senate -- and his
seat -- in the November elections. The party now governs the
chamber with 53 of 100 seats. Of the 33 seats that are up for
election in November, 23 are held by Democrats.  Republican Representative Rick Berg is running against
former state Attorney General Heidi Heitkamp, a Democrat, to
succeed Conrad, who won re-election in 2006 with 69 percent of
the vote.  On fiscal matters, Conrad, who served on President Barack Obama’s federal debt commission, basically defended the
president’s record on controlling  U.S. debt .  Medicare Cuts  Conrad said Obama, in his budget proposal, has embraced
Medicare cuts and other key aspects of the proposal drafted by
members of the bipartisan commission.  “In many ways, he did embrace Simpson-Bowles,” he said,
referring to the panel led by former Senator  Alan Simpson , a
Wyoming Republican, and Erskine Bowles, a former chief of staff
to Democratic President  Bill Clinton .  “If you look at this budget proposal, he has not quite as
much revenue as we had in our proposal,” Conrad said. “On
Medicare, we had $400 billion of savings. He has $360 billion of
savings in Medicare.”  Debt held by the public was almost 68 percent of gross
domestic product at the end of fiscal 2011 and will rise to 74
percent this year, according to Obama’s  budget  plan. Obama’s
proposal would take debt to 77 percent of GDP by 2022, while the
Simpson-Bowles 2010 package of spending reductions and tax
increases would cut it to about 66 percent in 10 years.  Changes Needed  Conrad said he sees little chance of balancing the budget
until voters elect more centrist lawmakers and the Senate rules
on the filibuster -- delaying tactics by legislation opponents
that take 60 votes to end -- are changed.  “Only the people can do that, and they’ve got to decide,”
he said of the need for more moderates. “Do you really want
people who are absolutely unwilling to reconsider their
positions in light of changed facts? The facts have changed. The
hard reality is, we’re borrowing 40 cents of every dollar we
spend.”  Much of the president’s budget plan repeats proposals that
have already been rejected by Republicans, including a 10-year,
$3 trillion deficit-reduction package offered to Congress in
September. In addition to laying out the president’s priorities,
the blueprint is designed to highlight the differences between
the two parties’ agendas as the November election approaches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  