-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Climbed Less Than Economists Forecast in January
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-17T13:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/consumer-prices-in-u-s-climbed-less-than-economists-forecast-in-january.html
The cost of living in the U.S. rose
less than forecast in January, supporting the  Federal Reserve ’s
view that inflation will be contained.  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent after no
change the prior month, the Labor Department reported today in
 Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a 0.3
percent gain. Over the past 12 months, prices climbed 2.9
percent, the smallest year-to-year advance since March 2011.  Retailers from Limited Brands Inc. and  Target Corp. (TGT) 
discounted merchandise after the holidays as 12.8 million
Americans remain unemployed, showing companies have little
pricing power. A lack of inflation is one reason Fed policy
makers have said they intend to keep  interest rates  low through
at least 2014.  “We’ve seen the peak” in inflation, said Jeremy Lawson, a
senior U.S. economist at BNP Paribas in  New York . “There is
still a reasonable amount of slack in the labor market.”  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the report.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
March rose 0.2 percent to 1,357.5 at 8:49 a.m. in New York amid
optimism  Greece  will get a bailout.  CPI estimates of the 82 economists surveyed ranged from
increases of 0.1 percent to 0.4 percent.  Core Prices  The so-called core measure, which excludes more volatile
food and energy costs, also increased 0.2 percent, matching the
 median  forecast.  The increase in the core gauge followed a 0.1 percent
advance in December. They were up 2.3 percent for the past 12
months, the most since a 2.5 percent increase in the year ended
Sept. 2008.  The price report may underscore Fed ChairmanBen S. Bernanke’s comments on Feb. 7 that central bank officials
expected inflation to “remain subdued” due to the “well-
anchored inflation expectations, more-stable commodity prices,
and substantial slack in labor and product markets.”  Household purchases climbed 2.2 percent in 2011 after an
increase of 2 percent in 2010, the weakest two-year performance
of any post-World War II expansion.  Unemployment has held above 8 percent since February 2009,
the longest such run since the monthly record-keeping began in
1948. Nonetheless, the rate is starting to drop, reaching a
three-year low of 8.3 percent in January.  Stagnant Wages  While the labor market is improving, paychecks are failing
to keep up with even limited inflation. Hourly earnings adjusted
for prices were unchanged in January and  fell  1 percent over the
past 12 months, today’s report showed.  Energy costs increased 0.2 percent in January from a month
earlier, as did food costs. An increase in gasoline prices was
mostly offset by a drop in costs for natural gas.  The increase in the core measure was driven by rising costs
for apparel, toys, tobacco and medical care. Used-car and truck
prices dropped as did airline fares. The cost of new automobiles
was little changed.  Fed policy makers see inflation decelerating in 2012 to
below their 2 percent goal, with most expecting prices to rise
1.4 percent to 1.8 percent this year, according to forecasts
released Jan. 25.  “Inflation has been subdued in recent months, and longer-
term inflation expectations have remained stable,” the Federal
Reserve said Jan. 25. The monetary policy-making committee
“also anticipates that over coming quarters, inflation will run
at levels at or below those consistent with the committee’s dual
mandate” of fostering  price stability  and maximum employment.  Post-Holiday Discounts  Retailers, including  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD)  and Target Corp.,
posted same-store sales last month that were stronger than
forecast as shoppers took advantage of post-holiday discounts.
More shoppers cashed out their holiday gift cards and sought out
clearances on winter apparel, according to a Bloomberg
Industries report.  The CPI is the broadest of three price gauges from the
Labor Department because it includes goods and services. Almost
60 percent of the index covers prices consumers pay for services
ranging from medical visits to airline fares, movie tickets and
rents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  