-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Likely Rose in January on Fuel
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-rose-in-january-as-gasoline-costs-climbed.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably rose in January by the most in four months, boosted by
higher prices for food and energy, economists said before a
report today.  The consumer-price index climbed 0.3 percent after no
change the prior month, according to the median forecast of 82
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The so-called core
measure, which excludes more volatile food and fuel expenses,
may have increased 0.2 percent.  Retailers from  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD)  and  Target Corp. (TGT) 
discounted merchandise after the holidays as 12.8 million
Americans remain  unemployed , showing companies have little
pricing power. A lack of inflation is one reason Federal Reserve
policy makers have said they intend to keep  interest rates  low
through at least 2014.  “We are seeing upward momentum in prices of food and other
commodities that producers can’t pass along to consumers because
consumers are still very fragile,”  Lindsey Piegza , an economist
at FTN Financial in  New York , said before the report.  The Labor Department’s price data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from increases of 0.1
percent to 0.4 percent.  Prices over the past 12 months may have climbed 2.8
percent, the smallest year-to-year gain since March, according
to economists’ forecasts.  Outlook Brightening  Another report may show the economy will continue to expand
into the second half of the year. The Conference Board’s index
of leading economic indicators, which signals the outlook for
three to six months, rose 0.5 percent in January after a 0.4
percent gain in December, according to the median of economists’
forecasts before the 10 a.m. report.  The price report may underscore Fed ChairmanBen S. Bernanke’s comments on Feb. 7 that central bank officials
expected inflation to “remain subdued” due to the “well-
anchored inflation expectations, more-stable commodity prices,
and substantial slack in labor and product markets.”  Household purchases climbed 2.2 percent in 2011 after
increasing 2 percent in 2010, the weakest two-year performance
of any post-World War II expansion.  Unemployment has held above 8 percent since February 2009,
the longest such run since the monthly record-keeping began in
1948. Nonetheless, the rate is starting to drop, reaching a
three-year low of 8.3 percent in January.  Early Markups  Companies often try to raise prices at the beginning of the
year to test consumers’ willingness to pay more. Those increases
are sometimes rolled back in the course of the year,
particularly during times when consumers are strapped, according
to  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC 
in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  The price of oil and some other commodities have risen in
the last two months amid signs that  Europe  may resolve its debt
crisis and that the  U.S. economy  was gaining ground.  The cost of a gallon of regular gasoline at the pump
averaged $3.38 in January, compared with $3.26 the prior month,
according to data from AAA, the nation’s largest auto group.  Nonetheless, Fed policy makers see inflation decelerating
in 2012 to below their 2 percent goal, with most expecting
prices to rise 1.4 percent to 1.8 percent this year, according
to forecasts released Jan. 25.  “Inflation has been subdued in recent months, and longer-
term inflation expectations have remained stable,” central
bankers said Jan. 25. The monetary policy-making committee
“also anticipates that over coming quarters, inflation will run
at levels at or below those consistent with the committee’s dual
mandate” of fostering  price stability  and maximum employment.  Post-Holiday Discounts  Retailers, including Limited Brands and Target, posted
same-store sales last month that were stronger than forecast as
shoppers took advantage of post-holiday discounts. More shoppers
cashed out their holiday gift cards and sought out clearances on
winter apparel, according to a Bloomberg Industries report.  Retail stocks have accompanied gains in the broader market
so far this year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retail
Index has gained 8.5 percent, compared with an 8 percent
increase for the  S&P 500 Index .  The CPI is the broadest of three price gauges from the
Labor Department because it includes goods and services. Almost
60 percent of the index covers prices consumers pay for services
ranging from medical visits to airline fares, movie tickets and
rents.  A report yesterday showed producer prices rose 0.1 percent
in January, less than forecast, as food and energy prices
dropped. The import-price index, released Feb. 14, rose for the
second time in six months.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  