-- Corcept Wins U.S. Approval for First Drug to Treat Cushing’s Syndrome
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-18T00:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/corcept-wins-u-s-approval-for-first-drug-to-treat-cushing-s-syndrome.html
Corcept Therapeutics Inc. (CORT)  won U.S.
approval for a drug that uses the active ingredient of the
abortion pill RU-486 to treat Cushing’s Syndrome.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared Korlym, formerly
called Corlux, to treat the syndrome in patients who have Type 2
diabetes or glucose intolerance and aren’t candidates for
surgery or haven’t responded to surgery, the agency said today
in a statement. Korlym, the leading drug candidate from  Menlo
Park , California-based Corcept, is the first therapy approved
for the hormone condition, the FDA said.  Korlym, a once-daily pill, will be available on May 1
through a small number of endocrinologists who treat patients
affected with the disease, Joseph Belanoff, Corcept’s chief
executive officer, said today in a statement.  “These doctors can be reached without a large sales and
marketing infrastructure,” he said.  Cushing’s Syndrome  affects about 20,000 people in the U.S.,
Corcept said in a statement. The illness, caused by too much
exposure to the hormone cortisol, most often attacks adults 20
to 50 years old, according to the U.S. National Institutes of
Health. Symptoms include high-blood pressure, upper-body obesity
and diabetes. The disease can be lethal if not treated
effectively.  Korlym blocks cortisol with mifepristone, which is approved
for the termination of early pregnancy in combination with the
drug misoprostol. The drug will carry a boxed warning that it
will terminate a pregnancy.  Orphan Drug  Corcept’s medicine was granted orphan drug status because
it treats a small number of patients, which means it is eligible
to be sold free from generic competition for seven additional
years. About 5,000 patients will be eligible for the drug, the
FDA said in its statement.  Corcept  shares  gained 64 percent to $4.97 in extended
trading at 6:55 p.m. New York time. The company, which hasn’t
generated revenue since 2009, declined 27 percent in the past 12
months.  Physicians may not readily accept Korlym as a treatment for
Cushing’s, Corcept said Sept. 30 in its quarterly report because
doctors are inexperienced with the condition and because of the
ethical and political implications of the abortion drug.  “Public perception of the active ingredient in Korlym,
mifepristone or RU-486, may limit our ability to market and sell
Korlym,” the company said.  Corcept said it will control the distribution of the drug
to reduce the potential for ending a pregnancy. The company also
is studying alternative uses for the treatment.  Korlym failed in 2007 in a clinical trial for psychotic
major depression. The FDA granted the drug fast-track status,
which garners Corcept more meetings with agency staff to
facilitate development of the medicine. No FDA-approved
treatment exists for psychotic depression, according to Corcept.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  