-- Oil Set for Biggest 2012 Weekly Gain
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-02-17T13:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/crude-oil-set-for-biggest-weekly-gain-this-year-on-u-s-economy-greek-aid.html
Oil rose for a third day in New
York, heading for the biggest weekly gain this year, as signs of
an improving  U.S. economy  and progress on a bailout for  Greece 
bolstered the outlook for fuel demand. Brent touched an eight-
month high.  West Texas Intermediate futures climbed as much as 0.6
percent today and have gained 4.1 percent this week, the most
since the five days ended Dec. 23. U.S.  applications  for jobless
payments fell to the lowest since 2008, the Labor Department
said yesterday. European governments are considering cutting
 interest rates  on emergency loans to Greece and using European
Central Bank contributions to plug a financing gap for the
second bailout, two people familiar with the discussions said.  “The U.S. economy is in better shape than had been
feared,”  Eugen Weinberg , the head of commodities research at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , who predicts  Brent crude  will slide
toward $110 a barrel by the end of the year. “The current price
action is a liquidity and investment-driven rally on the back of
U.S. economic sentiment and improving equity markets, fueled
further by fears of possibly supply cutbacks.”  WTI for March delivery rose as much as 66 cents to $102.97
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $102.76
at 1:19 p.m. London time. Prices yesterday rose to $102.31
yesterday, the highest close since Jan. 4.  Brent oil for April settlement was down 19 cents at $119.92
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange, after advancing to
$120.70 earlier, the highest since June. Brent’s premium to WTI
for was at $16.86, compared with a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  ‘Main Driver’  Crude in  New York  has technical resistance along the upper
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This indicator is around $102.82 a barrel today. Sell
orders tend to be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  Oil may rise next week on concern that shipments will be
disrupted by tension between Iran and the West over the
country’s nuclear program, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Fifteen of 37 analysts, or 41 percent, forecast oil will climb
through Feb. 24. Twelve respondents, or 32 percent, predicted
prices will decline and 10 said there will be little change.  “For the next few months, the demand side for the oil
market should be getting better,” said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity
fund manager at Astmax Ltd. in  Tokyo  who helps manage $390
million and predicts futures in New York will reach $145 a
barrel this year. “The main driver of the market is Brent,
which potentially has more lift to the upside due to supply-side
risks.”  Threats From Iran  Daily volumes in options granting the right to buy Brent
for more than the current market price have risen above 25,000
on four days during the past two weeks in New York, signaling an
increase in bets on a possible price rally.  Iran said Feb. 15 it was cutting crude shipments to France
and the Netherlands, and had loaded locally built fuel plates
into its nuclear research reactor in Tehran, according to
reports by the state-run Mehr news agency and Press TV. The EU
decided last month to halt purchases from  Iran  starting July 1
in an attempt to halt its nuclear program.  Iran will increase the volume of oil it ships to China
“soon,” state-run Mehr news agency reported yesterday, citing
an unidentified official at National Iranian Oil Co.  In the U.S., applications for unemployment payments dropped
by 13,000 in the week ended Feb. 11 to 348,000, the Labor
Department said yesterday. The claims were less than the most-
optimistic estimate of 45 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Progress in Greece  Greece expects euro-area finance ministers to approve a
second aid package at a meeting on Feb. 20, according to
Pantelis Kapsis, a government spokesman. Overcoming the final
obstacles may enable finance ministers to approve the 130
billion-euro ($170 billion) lifeline and a bond exchange with
private investors that are critical to staving off a Greek
default in March, the German  finance ministry  told coalition
lawmakers in Berlin yesterday, three officials said.  Oil prices  are rising on demand from Asian countries,
including  China , the world’s second biggest crude consumer,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Most blame geopolitics for the latest spike, and we don’t
quibble with that,”  Frederic Neumann , co-head for Asian
economic research at the bank in  Hong Kong , said in a report
today. “But fundamentally, Asia’s huge appetite for crude is
providing the backdrop.”  China’s crude imports increased 7.4 percent from a year ago
to 23.41 million metric tons in January, a record high,
according to preliminary data from Beijing-based General
Administration of Customs on Feb. 10. Final figures are
scheduled to be released on Feb. 21.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co. plans to re-open the Damman oilfield,
the company’s oldest, and produce there for the first time in 30
years in response to “tight market conditions,” the Economist
Intelligence Unit reported yesterday. Officials at Aramco’s
headquarters in Dhahran,  Saudi Arabia , didn’t answer phone calls
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  