-- D.R. Horton Says Mortgage Applicants’ Personal Information Was Compromised
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/d-r-horton-says-mortgage-applicants-personal-information-was-compromised.html
D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI) , the largest U.S.
homebuilder by volume, said it’s notifying mortgage applicants
that their personal data may have been compromised by a software
security infringement.  The breach was caused by “unknown external sources,” the
Fort Worth, Texas-based company said in a statement yesterday.
It was discovered on Feb. 10 at the builder’s Internet Loan
Prequalification System, according to a message being sent to
customers, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  “DHI Mortgage has already contacted  law enforcement  and
implemented revised online security measures as we continue to
investigate the matter,”  D.R. Horton  said in the message. “As
a precautionary measure, we are sending you this notice so that
you can take steps to prevent or limit  identity theft .”  Jessica Hansen, the company’s director of investor
relations, didn’t respond to a telephone message and e-mail
seeking comment yesterday.  The homebuilder didn’t say in its statement how many people
were affected by the security breach. Information that
applicants submitted to D.R. Horton may include birth dates,
Social Security numbers and such financial data as income,
assets and liabilities, the company said in its message to
customers.  Data breaches last year at companies including AT&T Inc.,
 Sony Corp. (6758)  and Citigroup Inc. sharpened government scrutiny of
how businesses safeguard consumer information and respond to
cyber-attacks. U.S. companies must spend more than eight times
their current allocation for cyber-security to be capable of
stopping 95 percent of attacks by hackers, according to a
Bloomberg Government study published Jan. 30.  In-House Financing  D.R. Horton sold 17,176 homes in 25 states last year at
prices ranging from $90,000 to more than $600,000. Its in-house
mortgage company handled the financing for 60 percent of
homebuyers in the quarter ended Dec. 31.  The company’s net income was $119.9 million on revenue of
$3.76 billion for the four quarters through Dec. 31. Financial
services accounted for $87.2 million of revenue in fiscal 2011,
which ended Sept. 30.  D.R. Horton announced the security breach after the close
of regular U.S. trading yesterday. Its shares fell 0.4 percent
to $14.47 yesterday in  New York . They have gained 16 percent in
the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  