-- Danone, Nestle Said to Have Bid Proposals for Pfizer Unit
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-02-18T00:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/danone-said-to-vie-with-nestle-on-antitrust-plan-for-pfizer-nutrition-unit.html
Danone SA (BN)  and  Nestle SA (NESN) , vying to
buy  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s infant-nutrition unit, are working on ways to
overcome antitrust hurdles after submitting preliminary bids of
about $10 billion, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Nestle is considering buying all of Pfizer’s infant-
nutrition assets and then conducting an auction to sell what it
can’t keep because of regulatory concerns it would become too
dominant in some markets, said one of the people, who declined
to be identified because the process is confidential. Danone is
weighing a joint bid with  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  and may
split the business along geographies or brands, said the people.  Danone, owner of the Bledina brand formula, and Nestle,
maker of Gerber baby food, may present plans to Pfizer in the
coming weeks, said the people. The companies, two of  Europe ’s
biggest foodmakers, are seeking to expand in infant nutrition,
where growth has outpaced other parts of the industry.  Either buyer would be asking regulators to approve a deal
after regulatory scrutiny ended some of 2011’s biggest
transactions. European antitrust authorities stymied  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1) ’s planned combination with NYSE Euronext, while the
 U.S. Department of Justice  sued to block AT&T Inc.’s $39 billion
purchase of  T-Mobile USA. (DTE)   Exploring Options  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, hasn’t made a
decision on the nutrition business, which had revenue of $2.14
billion last year, said Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for the New
York-based company. Pfizer is in the process of exploring
options for the unit, which include a sale, spinoff or other
transaction, she said.  A spokesman for Nestle declined to comment on the process,
as did a spokeswoman for Paris-based Danone.  Pfizer shares declined less than 1 percent to $21.19 at the
close in New York yesterday. The company gained 9.4 percent in
the past 12 months.  Danone said this week its  baby-food revenue  last year rose
11 percent to 3.67 billion euros ($4.8 billion) on a comparable
basis, helping drive total sales growth. Revenue from Nestle’s
nutrition business, excluding acquisitions, disposals and
currency shifts, advanced 7.3 percent to 7.2 billion Swiss
francs ($7.9 billion), the company said this week. Infant
nutrition accounted for about 90 percent of the unit’s sales,
Nestle said.  Heinz Interest  H.J. Heinz (HNZ)  Co., as well as other rival food companies and
regional players, may seek to acquire assets from Nestle in
countries where the Vevey, Switzerland-based company could run
into regulatory snags, the people said. While Pittsburgh-based
Heinz had considered bidding for the entire Pfizer unit, it is
now more focused on buying only parts, said one of these people.  A spokesman for Heinz declined to comment.  Nestle may face antitrust issues in more than a dozen
countries, while Danone would have hurdles in key markets
including the U.K., the people said.  China, where Pfizer  generated  about 29 percent of its 2010
infant-nutrition revenue, is a country where local regulators
will scrutinize any bid, one person said.  China ’s baby-food
market will probably expand by about 17 percent a year from 2010
to 2015, Euromonitor estimated last year.  Buying Pfizer’s business would give Nestle about 10 percent
of the infant milk formula market in China, while a Danone
purchase may create a company with at least a 17 percent share,
according to people with knowledge of the figures. Mead Johnson
would likely have the largest, at about 20 percent or more, the
people said.  Splitting Brands  As part of its plan, Danone may propose that Mead take over
brands such as Pfizer’s SMA line of products, one of the people
said. Danone may also seek to join with Mead to make it easier
for the company to line up the needed financing and spread the
risk of taking on too much debt. Typically to make a joint bid,
the seller must give approval for bidders to work together.  Pfizer gained the formula division through its $68 billion
purchase of Wyeth in 2009. The unit, which also makes Enercal
supplements for adults, offers products in more than 60
countries, according to its website, and accounted for 3.2
percent of the company’s 2011 revenue. Pfizer’s Campion said the
company expects to announce a decision on the process in 2012
and complete any transaction from July 2012 to July 2013.  Pfizer is shedding its animal health and nutrition
businesses as part of Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read ’s plan to
focus on developing new  prescription drugs  after losing patent
protection for Lipitor, a cholesterol pill and the world’s best-
selling medicine. The divestitures are “on track,” he said in
a Jan. 31 earnings conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  