-- Deripaska’s En+ Wants Montenegrin Plant Debt-for-Stock Swap
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-02-17T18:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/deripaska-s-en-asks-to-swap-montenegro-plant-debt-for-stock-1-.html
Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s
En+ Group asked  Montenegro  to allow their Kombinat Aluminijuma
Podgorica AD joint venture to convert debt it owes,
including 86 million euros ($113 million) to En+, into equity as
the government seeks to take control to save the company.  En+ “would be prepared to fully convert that debt into
KAP’s equity if the government agrees to a similar conversion”
for other lenders, the Russian holding company said today in a
statement. The government and En+ each hold 29.3 percent stakes
in the unprofitable Montenegro aluminum producer.  Montenegro, the last former Yugoslav republic to break from
 Serbia ’s dominance, is seeking to turn around the biggest
industrial producer in the nation of about 620,000 people. The
state backed KAP’s loans totaling 132 million euros and wants to
avoid destabilizing public finances in case guarantees are
activated, Deputy Prime Minister Vujica Lazovic said.  “The government will take over KAP and end the contract,”
Lazovic said in a telephone interview. Subsidies for the
electricity consumed by KAP are “unsustainable,” and there are
“gloomy predictions that no aluminum producer in  Europe  can
survive the competition from  Asia  and other places.”  KAP may sign a long-term power supply deal with a state-
owned utility as a part of a rescue plan, En+ said. KAP’s
production costs equal $2,150 a metric ton, En+ said, while
Lazovic put them at the equivalent of $3,257 per ton.  Falling Commodity Prices  That compares with aluminum prices that have fallen 23
percent from a peak in May last year to $2,166 a ton by 1:15
p.m. in London trading.  KAP  last year produced 92,800 metric tons of primary
aluminum. It  reported  a net loss of 22.5 million euros in the
first nine months of 2011, down from 39.7 million euros a year
earlier.  Montenegro assumed KAP’s 22 million-euro loan from  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  last week and may soon do the same for the remaining 110
million euros of state-backed debt, Lazovic said. He called the
Russian investor an “unreliable partner.”  By assuming the liabilities, the government will be able to
initiate receivership at KAP and take control while trying to
avoid a shutdown.  “Once you wind it down, it’s very difficult and very
costly to restart the operation” and “we have to be careful
not to reduce our economy to only services and agriculture,”
Lazovic said.  Raw-Material Costs  Nominally, KAP accounts for 15 percent of Montenegro’s
economic output “but considering all the raw materials it
imports and the energy it consumes, the actual share is between
2.4 percent and 4.7 percent,” of gross domestic production,
Lazovic said.  Deripaska acquired a majority stake in KAP in 2005 for 48.5
million euros and later accused Montenegro of misrepresenting
its value in the asset stale.  Under a settlement reached in 2010, EN+ gave Montenegro
half of its 58 percent stake, as the government agreed to back
the loans, including 26 million euros from  Russia ’s  VTB Bank
OJSC. (VTBR)  Part of that helped repay other debt and cover the cost of
job cuts. KAP now employs 1,200, down from almost 4,000.  The aluminum plant consumes 2,000 gigawatt hours a year, or
42 percent of the nation’s total consumption, and the state can
no longer afford to ensure that KAP pays 30 euros per megawatt
hour when rates in the region are often higher than 60 euros per
megawatt-hour, Lazovic said.  A “survival scenario” for KAP may include finding an
investor to develop a new, 500 megawatt coal-fired plant in
Maoce, in northern Montenegro, to provide the smelter with
electricity based on 110 million tons of local coal deposits,
Lazovic said.  “Another concern is labor, it’s not exactly cheap,” with
KAP’s average monthly salary at 1,100 euros, he said. Dismissing
the entire workforce in case of closure would cost about 20
million euros, while 25 million euros to 30 million euros would
be saved annually on the electricity, the deputy premier said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  