-- Diageo Kenyan Unit First-Half Profit Rises 17% as Sales Jump
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-02-17T09:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/diageo-kenyan-unit-first-half-profit-rises-17-as-sales-jump-1-.html
East African Breweries Ltd. (EABL) , the
Kenyan unit of  Diageo Plc. (DGE) , said first-half profit grew 17
percent as revenue jumped following an increase in sales of
spirits. The shares climbed to a one-month high.  Net income climbed to 4.88 billion shillings ($59 million)
in the six months through December from 4.15 billion shillings a
year earlier, the Nairobi-based company said in a statement e-
mailed by the city’s stock exchange today. Sales rose 36 percent
to 27.8 billion shillings.  “Despite tough macroeconomic conditions across all sectors
in Kenya and the short-term market events, we feel that these
results are good,” Securities Africa Trading, a Johannesburg-
based pan-African brokerage, said in an e-mailed research note.
Growth in revenue was driven by a “strong performance across
all brands,” it said.  Kenya ’s central bank raised  interest rates  to a record 18
percent last year after inflation surged to 19.7 percent and the
shilling fell to a low of 106.75 per dollar. Growth in East
Africa’s biggest economy slowed to 4.2 percent in the first nine
months of 2011 from 4.9 percent a year earlier, according to the
 Finance Ministry .  Disposable income in Kenya was “challenged” last year by
inflation, while input costs increased by 400 million shillings
because of the currency’s depreciation, Chief Executive Officer
Seni Adetu told reporters at a briefing in Nairobi.  ‘Further Acceleration’  “They have hit the ball out of the park,” said Aly Khan Satchu, chief executive officer of Nairobi-based investment
company  Rich Management , said in an interview today. “I see
further acceleration in full year.”  EABL shares  rose 2.3 percent to 180 shillings at 11:40 a.m.
in Nairobi. The company, Kenya’s biggest by market value,
proposed paying a dividend of 2.5 shillings per share.  Growth in both sales and profit was supported by
“continued focus on investments behind our brands, new products
and performance of spirits,” Adetu said. The contribution of
spirits increased to 15 percent from 11 percent a year earlier
and is expected to double in two to three years, he said.  EABL plans to invest as much as 30 million U.K. pounds ($47
million) in its operations across east  Africa  in the six months
to June 30, Adetu said.  About 5 million pounds will be spent on a 500,000
hectoliter canning plant in Kenya to serve the whole of east
Africa, and another 15 million pounds on increasing brewing
capacity in  Uganda , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  