-- U.S. Films Win China Access as Xi Wraps Up Tour With Vow to Boost Imports
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-18T16:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/dreamworks-to-own-45-stake-in-entertainment-venture-with-chinese-groups.html
U.S. filmmakers won improved access
to China’s $2.1 billion box-office market in an agreement that
resolves a five-year dispute between the two countries at the
 World Trade Organization .  The deal, announced yesterday as Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping  wrapped up his U.S. visit, will increase the number of
American films shown in China and gives producers such as  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Viacom Inc (VIAB) . and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  a “fairer” slice
of ticket receipts, according to a White House statement.  Trade dominated the agenda of the visit by Xi, who is
expected to be China’s next leader. The Asian nation is the
second-biggest U.S. trade partner, and two-way commerce rose 10
percent last year to $503.2 billion. Xi’s tour included stops in
 Washington  for talks with with President  Barack Obama ;  Iowa ,
where China agreed to buy $4.3 billion of soybeans; and to the
Port of Los Angeles, the biggest entry point for Chinese goods.  The movie agreement will support “thousands of American
jobs in and around the film industry,” U.S. Vice President Joe Biden said in the e-mailed statement.  Access to  China ’s film market has been a point of friction.
The Chinese government last year failed to meet a WTO deadline
to lift restrictions on U.S. movies. The industry is a key
export for the U.S., which enjoys a $12 billion global  trade
surplus  on films and other audiovisual products, the White House
said.  3-D, IMAX  China is one of the world’s fastest growing film markets.
In 2010, the Asia Pacific box office grew by 21 percent, the
 Motion Picture Association  of America said in February 2011.
China accounted for 40 percent of the growth. In 2011, China’s
box office reached $2.1 billion, the MPAA said yesterday,
without saying what the percentage increase was.  Under the agreement, China will ease restrictions on
enhanced formats such as 3-D and  IMAX Corp. (IMAX)  widescreen
technology, enhance commercial terms for filmmakers and open up
the state’s monopoly on distribution, the White House statement
said.  The MPAA said the agreement would let 50 percent more U.S.
films into the Chinese market  China, which now allows 20 foreign films into its market
each year, will permit an added 14 enhanced-format films, said
Howard Gantman, a spokesman for the MPAA, which represents
Hollywood’s biggest movie studios. Under the new revenue-sharing
contract, studios will get 25 percent of box-office proceeds, up
from the current 13 percent.  ‘Significant Opportunity’  Some Hollywood movies get around the quota if they are
Chinese co-productions or if some filming takes place in the
country.  The deal “represents a significant opportunity,” Disney
CEO Robert A. Iger said. Warner Bros. Chairman and CEO Barry Meyer said: “This begins a new era in the history of our
relationship.”  While the biggest studios will reap benefits, independent
filmmakers also saw promise in China’s agreement to allow more
local distributors and increase the transparency of its
censorship and importation decisions.  “For independents, this agreement is momentous,” Jean Prewitt, president and CEO of the Independent Film & Television
Alliance, said in a statement.  The U.S. had complained to the WTO that China was violating
obligations made when it joined the body in 2001.  DreamWorks Animation  “We will further increase our imports from other
countries, in light of our social and economic development and
consumer demand,” Xi, 58, said at a luncheon yesterday, joined
by Biden and  California  officials. “We will actively expand
imports from the U.S., including from L.A.”  The U.S. exported more than $100 billion of products and
services to China in 2011, Biden said.  Xi’s trip also highlighted an announcement that  DreamWorks
Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , creator of the “Kung Fu Panda” films,
formed a venture with Chinese state-owned companies to develop
entertainment projects there.  The agreement with  China Media Capital (CHMDCZ)  and two other groups
will create Oriental DreamWorks. DreamWorks Animation will own
about 45 percent of the company, according to a statement.  Oriental DreamWorks will be capitalized with cash and
intellectual property valued at $330 million, the companies
said.  China Media Capital (CHMDCZ) , along with  Shanghai Media Group (SMGCMZ)  and
 Shanghai Alliance Investment Ltd. (SALZ) , will own about 55 percent.
They plan to begin operations in  Shanghai  this year.  Villaraigosa, Brown  “This is a huge bet for the future for us,” Jeffrey Katzenberg, DreamWorks Animation’s chief executive officer, said
in an interview. “If we succeed, this opportunity is greater
than anything else we could be doing. It’s a long-term bet, but
it is in what unquestionably will be the largest entertainment
market in the world.”  DreamWorks Animation, based in Glendale, California, rose
0.9 percent to $19.52 yesterday in  New York . The stock has
gained 17.6 percent this year.  Los Angeles  Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, who accompanied Xi
on his visit to the city, said China’s  ZTE Corp. (000063)  telecom company
will expand business there and across California. The city also
plans to open a trade and tourism office in Chongqing, China,
after last year setting up one in Beijing.  Obama told Xi China’s yuan remains undervalued relative to
the dollar. The U.S. also disagrees with China’s decision to
veto United Nations Security Council calls for Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad to step down, Biden said.  Xi is “absolutely responsive when we disagree -- it’s a
clear statement of disagreement,” Biden told reporters.  California Governor  Jerry Brown  and Villaraigosa joined Xi
for a tour of  China Shipping (1138)  (Group) Co.’s Los Angeles cargo
terminal. China Shipping is doubling the size of the facility to
142 acres as part of a $121 million expansion to be completed in
2014.  After leaving Los Angeles, Xi flies to Ireland for an
official visit. He then travels to  Turkey  to meet with Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Ankara on Feb. 21 before
returning to China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  