-- Dutch Prince Friso Is in Critical Condition After Avalanche While Skiing
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-02-17T18:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/dutch-prince-in-critical-condition-after-avalanche-while-skiing.html
Friso van Oranje, the second son of
Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands, is in critical condition in an
Austrian hospital after being buried in an avalanche while
skiing, the  Dutch Government Information Service  said.  Friso, 43, was admitted to the intensive care unit of the
hospital in Innsbruck,  Austria , where he is “not out of danger
of death,” the information service in  The Hague  said. Doctors
won’t be able to give a prognosis for several days, it said.  The prince was skiing off-piste with another person without
a guide and triggered the avalanche, according to Hermann
Fercher, tourism director at Lech, the ski resort in the western
Austrian province of Vorarlberg where the Dutch royal family
regularly spends vacations.  “Only the prince was buried, and he was rescued within 20
minutes,” Fercher said by telephone today. An elevated
avalanche risk of four on a scale of five was in effect in the
region today, Fercher said. Friso was recovered by the Lech
mountain rescue service and volunteers with the help of
avalanche beacons and was helicoptered to Innsbruck.  Friso , the younger brother of Crown Prince Willem- Alexander, is chief financial officer at Urenco Ltd., a London-
based uranium enrichment company. He gave up his claim to the
throne in 2003 by deciding to marry Mabel Wisse Smit without
parliament’s permission. Wisse Smit had provided incomplete
information to the government during a background check about
her past relationship with the late Klaas Bruinsma, the former
head of a Dutch criminal organization.  Family Members Present  Queen Beatrix  and Mabel joined Friso in the hospital, the
Dutch government’s information service said. Willem-Alexander
and Friso’s younger brother Constantijn are on their way to
Innsbruck with their  families , Dutch newswire ANP reported.  Snowfall and strong winds have raised the avalanche risk in
many parts of the Austrian Alps, where two skiers died in an
avalanche yesterday, according to the Austria Press Agency.
Lech and neighboring Zuers were cut off overnight because of
avalanche risk before roads were reopened this morning. The rail
tunnel through the Arlberg mountain range remained closed until
the evening.  Friso  graduated in aeronautical engineering from the
University of Delft and in economics from Erasmus University in
Rotterdam, according to Urenco’s website. He joined the
Amsterdam office of McKinsey & Co. in 1995 and moved to  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s investment banking division in 1998, where he
worked until 2003. Friso has been involved as an investor in
technology companies and joined his current employer last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  