-- Leap Drops as Analyst Says AT&T Deal Unlikely: San Diego Mover
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   Y a b l o n
-- 2012-02-17T21:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/leap-drops-as-analyst-says-at-t-deal-unlikely-san-diego-mover.html
Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) 
fell after  Collins Stewart  LLC cut its rating on the pay-as-you-
go wireless provider, citing increased competition and little
chance of a sale to AT&T Inc.  Leap declined 4 percent to $9.24 at the close in  New York .
The stock has fallen  33 percent  in the last twelve months.  The San Diego-based company, which yesterday posted weaker-
than-expected fourth-quarter revenue, was reported to have held
discussions with AT&T about a possible deal, according to the
Wall Street Journal. The newspaper didn’t identify its sources
in a report posted online Feb. 15.  “It becomes increasingly difficult to recommend Leap
shares for purchase at a time when the risks for the entire U.S.
wireless industry has increased and Leap remains in a relatively
weak position,” Gregory Miller, a New York-based analyst with
Collins Stewart, wrote in research note today. It’s also
“highly unlikely  AT&T (T)  would acquire it as recently
speculated,” said Miller, who cut his  rating  from “buy” to
“neutral.”  Leap had gained 10 percent yesterday after the Journal
reported the talks with AT&T, the second-largest wireless
carrier.  Leap reported a smaller fourth-quarter  loss  than analysts
predicted as smartphone sales increased. The net loss was $84.4
million for the fourth quarter, or $1.10 a share, compared with
a net loss of $249 million, or $3.28, a year earlier, the
company said in a statement. That was narrower than the $1.13
average of analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Revenue was $767.4 million, up 8.4 percent from a year
earlier. Analysts had  predicted  $806.5 million. Cost per gross
addition, or the average price to add each new customer, rose 14
percent to $238 in the period.  Greg Lund , a Leap spokesman, wasn’t available for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Yablon in New York at 
 ayablon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  