-- ECB Greek Plan May Hurt Bondholders While Triggering Debt Swaps
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-02-17T13:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/ecb-plan-to-shield-its-greek-bonds-may-subordinate-some-holders-ubs-says.html
The  European Central Bank ’s plan to
shield its Greek bond holdings from a restructuring may hurt
private investors while paving the way for debt insurance
contracts to be triggered.  The ECB will exchange its Greek debt for new bonds with an
identical structure and nominal value, though they’ll be exempt
from so-called collective action clauses the government is
reportedly planning. That implies senior status for the ECB over
other investors, according to UBS AG, and the use of CACs may
lead to credit-default swaps protecting $3.2 billion of Greek
bonds being tripped.  “It may appear that the ECB is receiving preferential
treatment, raising questions about whether the ECB is senior to
private-sector bondholders,” according to  Chris Walker , a
foreign exchange strategist at UBS, the world’s third-biggest
currency trader. “If a coercive default does indeed eventually
take place then a CDS event seems very likely with all the
negative consequences for risk appetite that may bring.”  Government officials are separately negotiating a writedown
of the nation’s debts with private investors before a 14.5
billion-euro ($19 billion) note comes due on March 20 that risks
sending  Greece  into default. The yield on the nation’s benchmark
 10-year bond  jumped 28 basis points today to 33.67 percent as of
1:30 p.m. in London, its sixth straight day of increases.  Subordination  Subordination of other bondholders behind the central bank
is a problem “not only in the case of Greek debt, but also
regarding the debt of other euro-zone nations that the ECB may
be purchasing,” London-based Walker wrote in a report. The
ECB’s plan “will likely lead to euro weakness,” he wrote.
Still, it’s “a sign of progress toward an eventual Greek debt
restructuring.”  UBS estimates the euro will slide to $1.25 in three months
and $1.15 in one year. The shared currency strengthened 0.4
percent to $1.3187 today.  The 17-nation currency slid 4 percent during the past three
months as  Europe ’s debt crisis intensified, the biggest drop
after the yen among 10 developed market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen fell 5 percent
and the dollar declined 2 percent.  Credit-default swaps are contracts that pay the buyer face
value in exchange for underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a bond issuer fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  CACs Legislation  Greece will introduce legislation next week that may allow
CACs that force bondholders to accept debt writedowns,
Naftemporiki reported. Swaps on Greece may be trigged if the
CACs are used because all investors would be bound by a majority
agreement to accept a proposed debt restructuring.  “One of the basic principles of bond markets is you cannot
impose subordination on a particular set of bondholders,” said
 Padhraic Garvey , the head of developed-market debt at ING Groep
NV in Amsterdam. “The probability of triggering CDS has
increased because the ECB has protected itself.”  ECB officials previously rejected the possibility of a
credit event triggering swaps, arguing it would encourage
traders to bet against indebted nations and worsen the crisis.  The introduction of the clauses doesn’t in itself trigger
default swaps, though using them does, according to rules of the
 International Swaps & Derivatives Association . David Geen,
ISDA’s general counsel, declined further comment.  Credit Event  Credit events that trigger swaps can be caused by a
reduction in principal or interest, postponement or deferral of
payments, or a change in the ranking or currency of obligations.
Any of these must result from a deterioration in
creditworthiness, apply to multiple investors and be binding on
all holders. ISDA’s determinations committee rules whether
contracts can be tripped.  Default swaps insuring $10 million of Greek debt for five
years cost $6.8 million in advance and $100,000 annually,
according to CMA. That implies an 89 percent chance the
government will default in that time.  A total of 4,183 contracts insuring a net $3.2 billion of
Greek debt were outstanding as of Feb. 10, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a central registry
for the market.  “If indeed this maneuver is intended to protect the ECB
from forced losses, then the risk of a voluntary restructuring
morphing into a coercive one has arguably increased
significantly,” UBS’s Walker wrote. “A private-sector
bondholder that has been suddenly and unexpectedly subordinated
may have a reduced incentive to continue to hold onto that
debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  