-- ECB’s Greek Bond Exchange Spurs Likelihood of Credit-Default Swap Payout
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-02-17T11:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/ecb-bond-exchange-spurs-likelihood-of-payout-on-greek-credit-default-swaps.html
Credit-default swaps insuring Greek
government debt may pay out because a proposed bond exchange by
the  European Central Bank  paves the way for losses to be imposed
on private investors.  Greece  will introduce legislation next week that may allow
so-called collective action clauses that force bondholders to
accept debt writedowns,  Naftemporiki  reported. The ECB’s new
bonds will have identical structure and nominal value to their
current Greek notes, though they will be exempt from CACs, three
euro-area officials said.  “The probability of triggering CDS has increased because
the ECB has protected itself,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed-market debt at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, who says the
probability of a credit event is still low.  As much as $3.2 billion of default insurance may be trigged
if the CACs are used because all investors would be bound by a
majority agreement to accept a proposed debt restructuring. ECB
officials previously rejected the possibility of a credit event
triggering swaps, arguing it would encourage traders to bet
against indebted nations and worsen the crisis.  The introduction of the clauses doesn’t in itself trigger
default swaps, though using them does, according to rules of the
 International Swaps & Derivatives Association . David Geen,
ISDA’s general counsel, declined further comment.  Credit Events  Credit events can be caused by a reduction in principal or
interest, postponement or deferral of payments, or a change in
the ranking or currency of obligations. Any of these must result
from a deterioration in creditworthiness, apply to multiple
investors and be binding on all holders. ISDA’s determinations
committee rules whether swaps can be triggered.  “If indeed this maneuver is intended to protect the ECB
from forced losses, then the risk of a voluntary restructuring
morphing into a coercive one has arguably increased
significantly,”  Chris Walker , an analyst at UBS AG in London,
wrote in a note. “If a coercive default does indeed eventually
take place then a CDS event seems very likely with all the
negative consequences for risk appetite that may bring.”  The yield on the Greek 2022 bond today climbed 60 basis
points to 33.98 percent, with the price at 20.825 percent of
face value. The price of the 4.3 percent note due March 20
declined to 39.05 percent of face amount, from 42 yesterday.  Default swaps insuring $10 million of Greek debt for five
years cost $6.8 million in advance and $100,000 annually,
according to CMA. That implies an 89 percent chance the
government will default in that time.  A total of 4,183 contracts insuring a net $3.2 billion of
Greek debt were outstanding as of Feb. 10, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a central registry
for the market. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  