-- ECB Basel ‘Voice,’ Credit Bureaus, Swaps, ESMA: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-17T13:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/ecb-basel-voice-credit-bureau-oversight-swaps-compliance.html
The  European Central Bank  said its
voice should be heard when regulators impose liquidity rules on
lenders to prevent the measures from having any “potential
adverse effects” on its monetary policy.  The central bank made the statement in a  report  on its
website. Potential adverse effects of liquidity regulation on
monetary policy implementation may include a reduction in the
average credit quality of  banks (SX7P)  borrowing from the ECB, it said
in the report.  The liquidity measures were agreed on by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision. The EU is working on draft
legislation to transform the Basel accord into law across the
region, including the 17 nations that use the euro currency
controlled by the Frankfurt-based ECB.  One of the rules, known as a liquidity coverage ratio, or
LCR, would require lenders to hold a sufficient stock of easily
sellable assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze. The other, a
so-called net stable funding ratio, or NSFR, would force banks
to finance part of their long-term lending from sources that are
unlikely to dry up in a crisis.  The ECB said it should be consulted on which assets banks
can count toward meeting the LCR, as well as on details of the
NSFR, according to the report dated Jan. 25. It declined to
comment yesterday on the document’s content.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Consumer Bureau to Supervise Debt Collectors, Credit Bureaus  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau proposed a
regulation that would let it examine the books of debt
collectors and consumer reporting businesses as part of its
program to supervise non-bank financial companies.  The regulation, which must be completed by July 21, would
bring credit bureaus such as  Experian Plc (EXPN) ,  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  and
 TransUnion Corp (TRUN) . under federal supervision for the first time.
The proposal would cover, also for the first time at the federal
level, debt collectors such as  Asset Acceptance Capital Corp. (AACC) ,
 Portfolio Recovery Associates Inc. (PRAA)  and  Encore Capital Group Inc. (ECPG)   Supervision, the process of examining records and
collecting data from companies, can lead to enforcement action
if regulators find violations of the law. In the case of these
companies, the consumer bureau could find breaches of the Fair
Debt Collection Practices Act or the Fair Credit Reporting Act.  Under the proposal, debt collectors with more than $10
million in annual receipts from collection activities will face
supervision by the consumer bureau. According to the agency,
this threshold would cover about 175 debt-collection companies -
- 4 percent of all such companies -- that together account for
63 percent of the industry’s annual revenue.  Consumer reporting companies with more than $7 million in
annual revenues would be supervised, according to the proposal.
That would cover about 30 companies that together account for
about 94 percent of the industry’s annual revenues.  The bureau requested public comment on the proposal for 60
days after publication in the Federal Register.  For more, click here.  EU Lawmakers Seek Annual Levy on Banks to Protect Depositors  Banks (SX7P)  should be forced to pay into government funds that
would be tapped to reimburse depositors at failed lenders, under
plans approved in a vote by European Union lawmakers yesterday.  The measures are part of a draft law that the EU intends
will bolster protection of savers and prevent bank runs.  The draft law would shield a depositor from losses on
savings of as much as 100,000 euros ($130,000) and set, from
2017, a reimbursement deadline of one week.  Governments should manage bank-funded reserves equivalent
to 1.5 percent of protected deposits, according to proposals
approved by the European Parliament, voting in Strasbourg. Banks
judged by regulators to be most at risk of failure would be
forced to pay higher annual contributions into the funds than
other lenders.  Yesterday’s vote will be parliament’s negotiating position
on the draft law, which must be agreed on with national
governments before it can enter into force.  U.S. House Panel Approves Measure Limiting Swaps ‘Push-Out’  The U.S.  House Financial Services Committee  approved
legislation that would let banks keep commodity and equity
derivatives in federally insured units by removing part of the
Dodd-Frank Act’s so-called push-out rule.  The bipartisan measure, approved yesterday by voice vote,
calls for altering the 2010 law’s requirement that banks with
access to deposit insurance and the Federal Reserve’s discount
window move some derivatives trades to separate affiliates.  Dodd-Frank requires that equity, some commodity and non-
cleared credit derivatives be pushed out into affiliates. The
revision would allow non-structured finance swap activities and
structured finance trades tied to assets with high  credit
quality  to remain in bank divisions with insured deposits.
Structured swaps tied to asset-backed securities composed of
subprime mortgages would still be pushed out, said
Representative Jim Himes, a Connecticut Democrat who was a
sponsor of the bill.  The legislation would need approval by the full House and
Senate before heading to President  Barack Obama  for signature.  ESMA Seeks Views on Technical Rules for OTC Derivatives in EU  The  European Securities and Markets Authority  published a
discussion paper on draft technical standards for clearing
houses, trade repositories and trading in over-the-counter
derivatives.  The agency is seeking views on the standards until March
19, Paris-based ESMA said in an e-mailed statement. It will
organize a public hearing on March 6. The measures would add
detail to draft legislation to regulate OTC derivatives that was
approved this month by EU officials and lawmakers, ESMA said.  ESMA this week also said it is seeking opinions until March
9 on draft rules for short selling and trading in credit-default
swaps. It will hold a hearing on the measures on Feb. 29.  Australian Banks Must Resist Urge to Boost Risk, Regulator Says  Australia’s banks, confronting the weakest demand for home
loans since 1977, must resist the urge to drive up earnings by
increasing risk or by “aggressive cost cutting,” the banking
regulator said.  The challenge for banks is “coming to terms with ‘life in
the slow lane,’” John Laker, chairman of the Australian
Prudential Regulation Authority, told lawmakers in Canberra
today, according to a copy of his remarks on APRA’s website.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd . Chief Executive
Officer Mike Smith said today that credit growth is unlikely to
return to pre-crisis levels in the “foreseeable future.”  ANZ Bank said this week it will fire about 1,000 people by
Sept. 30 and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  announced this month it may
eliminate as many as 400 people from its payroll.  Australia’s four-pillar banks, so named for a law that
prevents them from buying each other, are managing slower demand
for mortgages, which account for about 60 percent of lending in
the nation.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Japan Bank Lobby May Act After Tibor-Fixing Probe, Nagayasu Says  The  Japanese Bankers Association  may take measures to
improve the way it compiles the nation’s key interbank lending
rate, Chairman Katsunori Nagayasu said.  Nagayasu said yesterday at a press briefing in Tokyo that
“necessary measures” will be taken based on guidance from
investigators.  Authorities in Asia, Europe and the U.S. are conducting
widening inquiries into whether employees at some of the world’s
biggest banks sought to manipulate the London, Tokyo and euro
interbank offered rates, known as Libor, Tibor and Euribor,
respectively.  Citigroup (C)  Inc. and  UBS AG (UBSN)  were ordered by Japan’s Financial
Services Agency in December to suspend some derivative
transactions after the regulator found that staff at the firms
attempted to influence interbank lending rates. Citigroup,  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  are among 17
reference banks that submit Euro-yen Tokyo interbank offered
rates to the association, which compiles and sets the benchmark
lending rate, according to the lobby’s website.  Olympus Former Chairman and Six Others Arrested Over Fraud  Three former executives at  Olympus Corp. (7733) , including ex-
chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, and four others were arrested for
suspected violation of Japan’s Financial Instruments and
Exchange Act.  The camera maker is facing shareholder  lawsuits  and may be
subject to further criminal investigation after admitting to a
13-year cover-up. The company restated past securities reports
and took a $1.3 billion reduction in net assets in December.  Olympus’s Tokyo headquarters and its affiliated offices
were raided in December by prosecutors after the company said
Kikukawa and two others colluded to hide investment losses from
the 1990s. The stock has plunged 49 percent since the Oct. 14
dismissal of its first non-Japanese president, Michael Woodford,
who later publicly questioned inflated takeover costs.  “We take the situation seriously,” Yoshiaki Yamada, a
spokesman for Olympus, said by phone today. “We will cooperate
fully with investigators.”  The company plans to hold an emergency shareholder meeting
on April 20 at which investors will vote on new management.  For more, click here.  German President Probed by Bafin Over Porsche, VW, Spiegel Says  German financial regulator Bafin is reviewing whether
 Christian Wulff , the country’s former president, violated
capital market rules in the wake of Porsche SE’s failed bid to
take over Volkswagen AG, Der Spiegel said.  Wulff may have learned in February 2008 that  Porsche (POR3)  was
planning the bid and Bafin is reviewing whether he may have had
to disclose that fact to the markets, the magazine reported,
without saying where it got the information.  Wulff was prime minister of Lower Saxony and a member of
Volkswagen’s supervisory board at the time of the Porsche bid.  Bafin’s press office didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment. Gernot Lehr, Wulff’s attorney, didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mail requesting comment.  Wulff resigned today amid the threat of the legal probe
into corruption allegations, delivering a blow to Chancellor
Angela Merkel that risks distracting her from the euro-region
debt crisis.  Wulff is the second German president to quit in less than
two years, forcing Merkel to find a fresh candidate with cross-
party support for the largely ceremonial post.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Bernanke Says Bank Supervisors Need Balance on Lending  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  spoke about the
role of community banks and the need for bank supervision  to
strike a ‘delicate balance’ between encouraging lending and
maintaining high standards for lending, risk management and
governance.  Bernanke spoke at an event sponsored by the Federal  Deposit
Insurance  Corp. in Arlington, Virginia.  For more, click here.  Bogle Says Tax Break for Private-Equity Firms ‘Ridiculous’  John Bogle , the Vanguard Group Inc. founder who popularized
index investing, said lower tax rates for certain types of gains
earned by private-equity firms are “ridiculous.”  “I’m arguing for the capital gains rate taxable as
ordinary income,” Bogle said yesterday during a portfolio
managers conference in New York organized by Bloomberg Link.  Private-equity managers typically earn a percentage of
their profits from investments as compensation, which is known
as carried interest. It is taxed at a lower rate --15 percent--
than the top rate of 35 percent that can be applied to regular
income.  Bogle, 82, who described himself as a lifelong Republican,
said carried interest “is a bit of a technical fraud.”  President Barack Obama’s fiscal 2013 budget proposal,
released this week, reiterated his plan to tax carried interest
earned by hedge-fund managers and private-equity partners at
ordinary income rates.  Levitt Says SEC Money-Market Rules Are Right  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said the money-market mutual fund industry
“is crazed” about SEC proposals that would force money funds
to abandon their traditional $1 share price, adopting a so-
called floating net-asset value.  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  They were joined
in the conversation by Bloomberg economist Joe Brusuelas.  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  Summers, Clinton Said to Be Lead Contenders for World Bank  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and former White
House economic adviser  Lawrence Summers  are two leading
candidates to succeed World Bank President Robert Zoellick when
he leaves in June, said two people familiar with Obama
administration discussions.  The U.S. promised a candidate “in the coming weeks” for
the post that has always been held by one of its citizens, while
officials from Brazil and Mexico vowed to make the selection
process open to emerging markets.  While Summers has expressed interest in the position and
has supporters inside the administration, the position would be
Clinton’s if she sought it, according to the people, who spoke
on condition of anonymity about the private conversations.  Clinton, who said previously she doesn’t plan to remain in
her post if President Barack Obama wins a second term,
repeatedly has denied having an interest in the World Bank job.
State Department spokesman Victoria Nuland repeated those
denials Feb. 15.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 