-- ECB Said to Negotiate With Greece on Investment Portfolio Bond Exemption
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/ecb-said-to-negotiate-with-greece-on-investment-portfolio-bond-exemption.html
The  European Central Bank  is
negotiating with Greece on behalf of its member central banks to
exempt the Greek bonds in their investment portfolios from a
debt restructuring, two euro-area officials said.  The ECB wants to swap the investment portfolio bonds for
debt that’s exempt from collective action clauses, or CACs, to
avoid losses in a private-sector debt restructuring, the
officials said late yesterday. The central bank has already
swapped Greek bonds it bought as part of its asset-purchase
program for such securities, a third official with knowledge of
the situation said.  Greece wants the bonds in the central banks’ portfolios to
be included in a private-sector deal aimed at slicing 100
billion euros ($132 billion) off its debt, the officials said.
The central banks are arguing they would have dumped the bonds
if they were normal investors and that they shouldn’t be forced
to take losses on them, the officials said.  An ECB spokesman declined to comment. Greek government
spokesman Pantelis Kapsis wasn’t immediately available to
comment.  The tussle comes as euro-area finance ministers gather in
Brussels on Feb. 20 to decide on a second bailout for the
embattled nation and sanction the private-sector bond swap.  Precedent  The risk for central banks is that taking losses on bonds
in their investment portfolios may erode their capital. On the
other hand, exempting the portfolios of euro-area central banks
could encourage other public investors, such as central banks
outside the currency region, to seek similar treatment.  The value of Greek bonds held by euro-area central banks
other than  Greece  in their investment portfolios is less than 10
billion euros, another euro-area official said. Not all 17
national central banks in the euro area have Greek bonds in
their investment portfolios.  Germany ’s Bundesbank doesn’t, the
third official said yesterday.  Greece is drawing up legislation to allow the use of CACs
and may submit it in coming days, two people familiar with the
matter said.  CACs typically make all bondholders subject to losing part
of their capital in a retrospective action that does not require
the assent of all lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  