-- Megaupload Defendants to Face More Criminal Counts in Internet Piracy Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-02-17T21:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/megaupload-defendants-face-more-criminal-counts-in-internet-piracy-case.html
Megaupload.com, a file-sharing
website charged with illegally distributing copyrighted movies
and music, faces more counts of criminal copyright infringement
and wire fraud.  A revised indictment filed in a U.S. court in Alexandria,
 Virginia , yesterday charged Megaupload.com and founder Kim Dotcom with three new criminal copyright counts and five new
wire fraud counts for allegedly running an illegal enterprise
for five years that unlawfully copied works and made them
available for download to customers. The original Jan. 5
indictment included five counts.  Since September 2005, what prosecutors have dubbed the
“Mega Conspiracy” has generated more than $175 million in
criminal proceeds by distributing millions of copies of
copyrighted works, such as movies, television programs, music,
books, video games and software, according to the indictment.  Megaupload reproduced copyrighted works directly from other
websites including Google Inc.’s YouTube for illegal sharing and
to give the false impression that a related video-sharing
website hosted user-generated, rather than copyrighted, content,
prosecutors said in an e-mailed statement today.  The conspiracy was led by Dotcom, a resident of  Hong Kong 
and  New Zealand  and a dual citizen of Finland and Germany, who
founded Megaupload Ltd., according to the indictment.  New Zealand Bail  Dotcom, imprisoned in New Zealand since Jan. 20 at the 
request of the U.S., failed to win release yesterday after a 
judge declined to immediately rule on his bid for bail.  North Shore District Court Judge N. R. Dawson said he
would deliver his decision before Feb. 22, according to an e-
mailed statement from the court. North Shore District Judge 
David McNaughton on Jan. 25 denied Dotcom’s request for bail, 
saying the risk of him fleeing New Zealand to a jurisdiction 
such as his home country of  Germany , which has no extradition 
treaty with the U.S., was too great.  The case is U.S. v Megaupload.com, 12-0003, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  