-- Telefonica Said Poised to Pick Alcatel on Spanish Network
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-02-17T17:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/telefonica-said-poised-to-choose-alcatel-for-high-speed-wireless-network.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone
company, is poised to award  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  an order to build a
nationwide high-speed wireless network as it seeks to win back
customers of data-hungry devices lost to rival operators, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , France’s largest phone-equipment maker, is
the front runner to supply gear for the network based on the so-
called long-term evolution technology, said the people, asking
not to be identified because the deliberations are confidential.
Telefonica plans to unveil details on its network strategy later
this month at the  Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona, one of the
people said.  Alcatel-Lucent jumped 5.1 percent to the highest price in
more than three months. Telefonica may need to spend
about 300 million euros ($394 million) to build the LTE network
to cover about 65 percent of the Spanish market, based on the
amount  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  invested in Germany, according to
 Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in  London .
Madrid-based Telefonica is seeking to bolster its Internet
offerings as competition increases in a weakening home market
amid the debt crisis.  “LTE will be important, especially in rural areas” where
download speeds may be limited to about 2 megabits per second,
Bienenstock said. “In the absence of significant cable
coverage, Telefonica’s wireline customers are threatened by
faster speeds available through LTE, hence the company has to
build LTE to prevent further revenue declines in these areas.”  Trial Networks  A Telefonica spokesman declined to comment, as did a
spokesman for Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent.  Alcatel-Lucent rose 9.1 cents to 1.87 euros in Paris, the
highest level since Nov. 3. The stock has gained 55 percent this
year, valuing the company at 4.3 billion euros. Telefonica
climbed 1.4 percent to 13.05 euros in  Madrid , snapping two days
of losses.  In  September , Telefonica announced that Alcatel would help
set up test LTE networks in Madrid and  Barcelona  for businesses
and institutions. The plan was to extend high-speed services to
all segments in the market from companies to consumers.  At the end of September, Telefonica had 24.1 million
wireless customers in Spain, a market with a wireless
penetration rate of 129 percent, according to the company.
Telefonica competes with Vodafone Group Plc and France Telecom
SA’s local units as well as TeliaSonera AB’s Yoigo division.  During the first phase of the trial networks,  Alcatel-
Lucent (ALU)  provided network infrastructure and  China ’s Huawei
Technologies Co. supplied USB modems.  Ericsson, Nokia Siemens  Alcatel-Lucent is pushing fourth-generation wireless
technologies to compete with Ericsson AB and Nokia Siemens
Networks. The French gear maker was selected by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 Verizon (VZ)  Wireless to deploy next generation networks in the U.S.  The company held a 30 percent share of the 4G equipment
market at the end of September, according to data compiled by
researcher Dell’Oro Group. It trails Ericsson, whose share is
estimated at 44 percent.  Alcatel-Lucent is involved in 70 LTE deployment trials
worldwide, according to its website, including with China
Mobile.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  