-- Telefonica Czech Quarterly Net Rises on Deferred Tax Income
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-02-17T16:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/telefonica-czech-quarterly-net-rises-on-deferred-tax-income-1-.html
Telefonica Czech Republic AS (SPTT) , the
country’s largest phone operator, said its profit rose 50
percent in the fourth quarter after a one-time gain from a
deferred tax income booked in Slovakia.  Net income for the three months ended Dec. 31 rose to 2.87
billion koruna ($151 million) from 1.91 billion koruna a year
earlier, the Prague-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement. Revenue declined 4 percent to 13.4 billion koruna.
The shares soared 7.2 percent.  The Czech unit of  Spain ’s largest operator,  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
has battled a steady decline in earnings, which peaked in 2005,
by streamlining operations and dismissing employees. Competitive
pressure and additional mobile termination rate cuts continue to
dilute revenue.  “I’m very pleased that in still-challenging and
competitive market conditions, we have delivered full-year
guidance,” Chief Financial Officer Jesus Perez de Uriguen said
in a statement. “This is a result of improving trends in the
second half of the year.”  The last quarter of 2011 was “positively” affected by a
deferred tax income booked in Slovakia worth 709 million koruna,
Telefonica said.  The board will propose a dividend of 40 koruna, of which 13
koruna represents a share-capital reduction. It also approved a
“potential” share buyback of as much as 10 percent of the
company’s shares.  ‘Above Expectations’  “The dividend is at the top end of the estimates and it’s
also good for the shares that they mentioned a buyback,”
Komercni Banka AS analyst  Josef Nemy  said. “The underlying
results excluding the one-time gain are also slightly above
expectations.”  Nemy recommends investors “hold” the shares, which rose
to 392.2 koruna in Prague, the biggest-one day gain since Oct.
2008.  Telefonica is “evaluating” a potential buyback from the
free float that the board will propose to the shareholders,
officials said on a conference call with analysts today. The
company didn’t exclude that it may take leverage for the buyback
if the plan goes ahead, the officials said. The company will
provide more details throughout the year.  Telefonica’s Oibda, or operating income before depreciation
and amortization, rose 1.2 percent to 5.8 billion koruna in the
quarter from a year ago, the company said.  The Czech Republic’s telecommunications regulator may
auction off unused transmission frequencies before the end of
March, creating an opportunity for a fourth telecom provider to
enter the market.  Telefonica will “closely” monitor and analyze conditions
of the tender for the new frequencies. It will make a bid for
the LTE license to deploy a 4G network and boost its
competitiveness on the mobile broadband field, the company said.  Telefonica expects “improving trends” in revenue in 2012
and forecast “limited” margin erosion this year.  Its capital
expenditure should not exceed 6.2 billion koruna in 2012, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in  Prague  at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  