-- Elektra’s Fourth-Quarter Profit Soars on Banking, Derivative
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-02-17T21:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/elektra-s-fourth-quarter-profit-soars-on-banking-equity-swap.html
Grupo Elektra SAB (ELEKTRA*) , the retail and
banking company controlled by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas ,
reported an almost fivefold increase in fourth-quarter profit on
a surge in loans and on derivatives based on its own stock.  Net income climbed to 11 billion pesos ($861 million) from
2.38 billion pesos a year earlier, Mexico City-based Elektra
said yesterday. Sales jumped 35 percent to 16.2 billion pesos,
led by a 56 percent increase in financial revenue.  Elektra is opening more bank branches to extend loans of an
average size of about $400 to Latin American customers who use
them to purchase appliances, fund businesses or attend to family
emergencies. Elektra added 625 locations last year for a total
of 2,878, mostly for banking branches, it said.  Elektra fell 2.4 percent to 1,130.86 pesos at the close in
 Mexico  City.  The banking unit had 12.5 million loan accounts at the end
of 2011, 45 percent more than a year earlier.  An increase in the value of an equity swap held by Elektra
helped boost investment-related revenue by 14.7 billion pesos
compared to a year earlier, Elektra said. The company recorded
the non-cash benefit because it must value the derivative
instrument at the end of every quarter.  The instrument, which pays Elektra for gains in its share
price as if it held the stock itself, has gained value as
Elektra’s stock price more than doubled last year. The increase
came in part because the other party in such a swap normally
buys up shares as a hedge, a process that would have made
Elektra shares scarce.  Mexico’s stock-exchange operator, Bolsa Mexicana de Valores
SAB, is looking into ways to make more of the shares available
for trading, a person familiar with the matter said last month.  An increase in tax reserves took away 5.78 billion pesos
from net income compared to last year, Elektra said.  The company agreed to pay $655 million to acquire payday
lender Advance America Cash Advance Centers Inc. to enter the
U.S. market, extending its reach to the U.S. after operating in
eight Latin American countries, it said Feb. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  