-- Emerging Stocks Reach 6-Month High on Signs U.S. Economy Growing
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-02-17T22:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-one-week-high-on-u-s-data-greece-optimism.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
six-month high and the yield premium on developing-nation debt
dropped to the lowest since October as signs of U.S. growth and
prospects  Greece  will get its bailout boosted riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 1.3 percent to
1,062.46 at the close in New York, the highest since Aug. 4. The
extra yield demanded by investors to hold emerging-country bonds
over U.S. Treasuries narrowed to 374 basis points, the least
since Oct. 28, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data showed.  An index of leading U.S. indicators rose in January and the
cost of living climbed less than forecast, Conference Board and
government data showed, a day after a report showed jobless
claims slid to the lowest level since 2008 in January. A
“solution” to outstanding issues blocking Greece from getting
its second rescue package will be found, said Steffen Seibert,
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman.  “If the U.S. economy looks better, the global growth
outlook looks more positive,”  Michael Ganske , head of emerging-
markets research at Commerzbank AG, said by phone from  London .
“Investors are already positioned for a risky scenario in
Greece” so it is no longer a force pushing down markets, Ganske
said.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  rose for a third day, led by  Cia
Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar , after the
nation’s biggest retailer reported fourth-quarter profit that
beat the average of analyst estimates.  Equity Fund Inflows  The  PX Index (PX)  reached a one-week high in  Prague  as
 Telefonica Czech Republic AS (SPTT)  jumped the most since October 2008
after net income rose 50 percent.  China Life Insurance Co. (2628) , the
nation’s biggest insurer, reached a six-month high in Hong Kong
trading, sending the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland shares to the highest level since August. The
 Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  jumped 2.4 percent to a record.  Investors added $2.19 billion to emerging-markets equity
funds in the week ended Feb. 15, while pulling assets from
developed markets, according to data researcher EPFR Global.
About 40 percent of the $47 billion pulled out of emerging-
market stock funds last year has been returned in 2012, the
research firm said by e-mail today.  MSCI’s emerging-market gauge has gained 16 percent this
year, beating the 8.9 percent increase for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
of developed-market shares. The  developing-nation index  trades
at 10.7 times estimated earnings, compared with 12.8 times for
the MSCI World measure.  The Bovespa gained 0.1 percent, bringing its advance in the
week to 3.4 percent.  Pao de Acucar  surged 5.7 percent to 79.20
reais, a record close.  Telecom Argentina  Argentina ’s  Merval Index (MERVAL)  gained 1.1 percent to a two-week
high, as  Telecom Argentina SA (TECO2)  rose the most in more than two
weeks after reporting that net income in the last three months
of 2011 increased 18 percent.  China Life advanced 3.5 percent to HK$23.60, the highest
level since Aug. 5, as the insurer said premium income rose 12
percent in January. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rose
1.2 percent to the highest since Aug. 4.  South Africa ’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  advanced for
the first time in four days, rising 0.8 percent, as an  index  of
commodity prices reached the highest level since July 28.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , a diversified miner that makes up about
9 percent of the South African index, jumped 1.9 percent, its
first gain in four days, after the company said profit rose 23
percent last year as iron-ore and copper output increase.  The Philippine Stock Index ended three days of losses to
close at a record-high 4880.71 after foreign investment into the
Southeast Asian nation climbed in January. Net overseas
investment in Philippine stocks, bonds and deposits rose last
month, the central bank reported yesterday.  Twenty-three of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg advanced against the dollar.  Indonesia ’s rupiah
strengthened 0.7 percent and  Russia ’s ruble appreciated 1.1
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  