-- EOG Resources Falls on Uneven Production Forecast: Houston Mover
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-02-17T21:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/eog-resources-falls-on-uneven-production-forecast-houston-mover.html
EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) , the third-
largest U.S. independent oil and natural-gas producer by market
value, declined as the company warned of “lumpiness” in its
production growth after fourth-quarter profit more than doubled.  EOG fell 2.8 percent to $114.35 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest drop in more than two months.  EOG’s production growth in the first and second quarter may
not be strong sequentially, Chief Executive Officer Mark Papa
said on a conference call today. The “lumpiness” may occur
because of drilling schedules, maintenance at processing plants
and asset sales, Papa said.  Some investors are focusing on the fact that most of the
company’s growth is expected to occur in the second half of this
year,  Leo Mariani , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Austin,
 Texas , said in a telephone interview today.  Investors should instead consider the 78 percent boost of
possible recoverable reserves in the Eagle Ford Shale in Texas,
said Mariani, who has an “outperform” rating on EOG shares and
doesn’t own any.  EOG may be able to recover the equivalent of 1.6 billion
barrels of oil from the Eagle Ford, higher than a previous
estimate of 900 million barrels, the Houston-based company said
in a statement yesterday.  The assessment is based on data from
well production and higher output expected from more closely
spaced wells, EOG said.  Total Output Grows  Total output is expected to climb 5.5 percent this year,
less than 2011’s 9.4 percent increase, according to the
statement. The company is planning to sell $1.2 billion of
assets this year and forecast that North American gas output
will fall 11 percent. Output of petroleum liquids, such as
crude, is expected to rise 30 percent in 2012.  EOG’s fourth-quarter net income climbed to $120.7 million,
or 45 cents a share, from $53.7 million, or 21 cents, a year
earlier. Excluding certain gains and losses, per-share profit
was 28 cents more than the 87-cent average of 29 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Apache Corp. are the largest
U.S. independent producers by market value. Such companies focus
on oil and gas exploration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  