-- Terrorism Suspect Is Arrested in FBI Sting Operation Near the U.S. Capitol
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-02-17T20:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/terrorism-suspect-is-arrested-in-fbi-sting-operation-near-the-u-s-capitol.html
An undercover terrorism
investigation led to an arrest near the U.S. Capitol of a
suspect who sought to use explosives that had been made
“inoperable,” federal authorities said.  The Capitol was the suspect’s intended target, according to
a federal  law enforcement  official who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly.  “Explosives the suspect allegedly sought to use in
connection with the plot had been rendered inoperable by law
enforcement and posed no threat to the public,” Justice
Department spokesman Dean Boyd said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride  in
Alexandria,  Virginia , said in an e-mail the arrest resulted from
an undercover terrorism investigation during which the suspect
was “closely monitored by law enforcement.”  The suspect is a man in his late 20s and a non-U.S. citizen
who was in this country illegally after overstaying his visa,
according to the federal law enforcement official.  The individual was arrested “in the area of the U.S.
Capitol,” Capitol Police spokeswoman Kimberly A. Schneider said
in an e-mail, adding that Capitol Police worked closely with the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  on “a lengthy and extensive
operation.”  The suspect has been under surveillance since the beginning
of December after the FBI received information about views he
was expressing, the federal law enforcement official said. The
suspect was operating by himself and didn’t have ties to foreign
terror groups, though he believed he was operating with one
during the investigation, the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  