-- Ethiopia Plans to Seek Tougher UN Sanctions Against Eritrea
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-02-17T16:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/ethiopia-plans-to-seek-tougher-un-sanctions-against-eritrea.html
Ethiopia  will push for stronger
United Nations sanctions on Eritrea’s mining industry in an
attempt to pressure its government to stop supporting rebels,
said State Minister of Foreign Affairs Berhane Gebre Kristos.  Ethiopia wants tougher sanctions than those passed at the
UN Security Council last year that advised mining firms to
exercise greater “vigilance” when working in the Horn of
Africa nation, he said in an interview in Addis Ababa, the
capital, today.  Mining and a tax on remittances “will be the major targets
with more teeth,” Berhane said. Further measures to restrict
political and military leaders are also sought, he said.  Eritrea, with a $2.1 billion economy, has attracted
investment from companies including  Canada ’s  Nevsun Resources
Ltd. (NSU)  An arms embargo, asset freeze and travel ban on some
leaders was imposed by the UN in 2009 for supporting Somalia
rebel group al-Shabaab. The Asmara-based government calls the
sanctions “unjustifiable” and denies supporting al-Shabaab or
other rebel groups within Ethiopia.  Eritrea became independent from Ethiopia after a 1993
referendum. The two countries fought a border war from 1998 to
2000 that killed 70,000 people, according to the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group .  It’s “not in Ethiopia’s interests” to return to
hostilities, Berhane said. “Eritrea does not have the
capability to go to fully-fledged war.”  Ethiopia wants the sanctions to change the government’s
behavior, rather than topple President Isaias Afewerki’s
administration, said Berhane. “It is up to the Eritrean people
to decide what kind of government it wants,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  