-- EU Antitrust Regulators Probing Collusion Over Libor Derivatives
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-02-17T15:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/eu-antitrust-regulators-probing-collusion-over-libor-derivatives.html
European Union antitrust regulators
are probing possible collusion between companies involved in
derivatives trading based on the London interbank offered rate,
or Libor.  “We have been investigating for several months Libor-based
interest-rate derivatives for several currencies,” said
Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission in a
phone interview. Regulators are concerned that companies active
in the industry may have breached EU cartel rules, he said.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  have said they were quizzed by the EU over the
possible breach of rules governing the Libor benchmark borrowing
rate, adding to similar probes by U.S., U.K., Swiss and Canadian
regulators.  Colombani declined to comment on whether the Libor probe
was based on information from one or several companies.
Supplying evidence used to sanction other members of a cartel
can win a company immunity from fines of as much as 10 percent
of yearly sales.  The Brussels-based commission is “intensifying” its
“antitrust scrutiny on wholesale financial markets,” EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said  last month.
Almunia started a separate probe into  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co . and 14 other investment banks over
agreements in the market for credit-default swaps that may harm
competition last year.  The EU’s antitrust agency in October raided banks that
offer financial derivatives linked to the Euro Interbank Offered
Rate, saying they were investigating possible collusion. That
probe is continuing, Colombani said.  Conditional Immunity  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, has received
conditional immunity from the Swiss Competition Commission as
part of an investigation into suspected manipulation of the Yen
Libor, Tibor and Swiss franc Libor rates. It was granted similar
immunity by the  U.S. Department of Justice  last year as part of
its probes of Yen Libor and Euroyen Tibor rates.  Libor rates, a benchmark for more than $350 trillion of
financial products worldwide, are based on data from banks
reflecting how much it would cost them to borrow from each other
for various periods of time in currencies including dollars,
euros and yen. The rates are compiled daily.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 