-- European Stocks Advance to Highest Level Since July on Greek Debt Optimism
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-02-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/european-stocks-post-weekly-advance-to-highest-level-since-july.html
European stocks  rose this week,
pushing the Stoxx Europe 600 Index to the highest in more than
six months, amid optimism the region’s finance ministers will
approve a Greek rescue and U.S. economic data beat forecasts.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc soared 37 percent as
Vodafone Group Plc said it’s considering buying the
telecommunications services provider. Nestle SA gained 4.1
percent after reporting earnings that exceeded analyst
estimates.  Cap Gemini  SA jumped 14 percent after it forecast a
higher operating-profit margin this year.  The Stoxx 600 added 1.8 percent to 265.93 this week, the
highest daily close since July 22. The benchmark measure has
 rallied 24 percent  from its low on Sept. 22 and  8.8 percent  this
year as investors speculated euro-area policy makers will
contain the sovereign-debt crisis.  “I don’t think that  Greece  will default by any means,”
said Ali Mahdavi, an equities trader at Newedge Group in London.
“They have to save it in order to save the  euro zone . The
Greece situation will be resolved sooner rather than later. Now,
with more positive news and also what we’ve had from the U.S.,
stocks have rallied back up.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  and Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  expressed
optimism that an agreement on Greece can be reached at a Feb. 20
meeting of the finance chiefs.  The ministers delayed the rescue package even after Greek
Prime Minister Lucas Papademos won parliamentary approval on
spending cuts.  U.S. Economy  A report showed the prospects for the world’s largest
economy increased in January. The Conference Board’s gauge of
the outlook for the next three to six months climbed 0.4 percent
after a revised 0.5 percent gain in December that was more than
initially reported, the New York-based group said. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an
increase of 0.5 percent.  Claims for jobless benefits fell unexpectedly last week to
the lowest level in four years, Labor Department figures showed
on Feb. 16. Housing starts rose 1.5 percent, beating
projections. A third report showed that manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region expanded in February at the fastest pace in
four months as new orders and sales picked up.  All but one of the 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx 600 
increased this week, led by a gauge of technology shares that
gained 3.6 percent. An index of mining companies fell 1 percent.  National benchmark indexes rose in 15 of the 18 western-
European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 Index added 2 percent.
 Germany ’s DAX Index advanced 2.3 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index increased 0.9 percent.  Moody’s Review  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded six euro-area
countries on Feb. 13, including Spain, Portugal and  Italy , and
threatened to cut the top Aaa ratings of U.K. and France.  The ratings company also placed 17 banks and securities
firms under review. UBS AG, Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche
Bank AG are among lenders that may be downgraded.  In  China , the central bank’s chief said the world’s second-
largest economy will help the European Union end the debt
crisis.  “China will always adhere to the principle of holding
assets of EU sovereign debt,” People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan said on Feb. 15. “We would participate in
resolving the euro debt crisis,” he said.  Cable & Wireless, Nestle  Cable & Wireless  Worldwide rose 37 percent after Vodafone,
the world’s largest mobile-phone company, said it’s evaluating a
bid for the telecommunications services provider.  Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, gained 4.1
percent after reporting 2011 sales growth that beat estimates
and forecast higher earnings in 2012.  BNP Paribas SA rallied 5.2 percent as France’s largest bank
posted a fourth-quarter net income of 765 million euros, beating
the 587 million-euro average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Oriflame Cosmetics SA surged 18 percent after Chief
Executive Officer Magnus Braennstroem said the company plans to
“reverse the sales trend and return to growth with improved
operating margin” in 2012.  Cap Gemini, France’s biggest computer-services company,
rose 14 percent after it forecast higher operating-profit margin
this year.  Spanish banks declined as the country’s stock market
regulator lifted a six-month ban on short-selling of financial
stocks.  Banco Santander SA fell 0.8 percent. Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA lost 3.4 percent. Bankia SA retreated 13 percent
to the lowest price since it sold its shares to the public last
year.  Of the 170 Stoxx 600 companies that have reported quarterly
earnings since Jan. 9, as many as 75 have exceeded analysts’
estimates, compared with 84 that missed projections, according
to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  