-- European Soccer Clubs Missed $130 Million in Transfer Payments Last Year
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-02-17T09:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/european-clubs-missed-130-million-in-transfer-payments-in-2011.html
European soccer clubs failed to pay
or deferred about 100 million euros ($130 million) in player
transfer fees last year because of  cash flow  problems, according
to an official from the continent’s governing body.  UEFA last month threatened PAOK Thessaloniki with a ban
unless the Greek club got its finances in order by June 30 after
investigating late payments to rival teams, staff and tax
authorities. Bulgaria’s CSKA Sofia, Timisoara of  Romania  and
Real Mallorca of Spain also have been barred from European
competitions because of overdue payments.  UEFA, which released figures last month showing losses
among 665 teams widened by 36 percent to 1.6 billion euros, has
implemented regulations to push clubs toward profitability. UEFA
President  Michel Platini  has described the practice of carrying
losses as “financial doping.” Sefton Perry, who analyzes club
finances for the organization, said not paying bills is a bigger
threat to fair competition.  “An even bigger cheat is when you buy a player you agree
to pay in a series of transactions over the next three years and
then you don’t pay or you defer it,” Perry said in an interview
at UEFA’s headquarters in Nyon,  Switzerland .  Some clubs also are failing to meet their tax and player
salary obligations.  Scotland ’s Glasgow Rangers, which has a world record 54
domestic league titles, filed for a form of  bankruptcy
protection  three days ago after failing to pay employment tax of
about 9 million pounds ($14.1 million). Rangers are also the
subject of an investigation into an unrelated tax deficit of 75
million pounds dating back several years.  Spanish Strike  Last season, 200 players in Spain’s top two divisions were
owed money by their teams. On Aug. 25, league officials agreed
to guarantee the salaries of all the players to end a strike
that had delayed the start of the season by a week, according to
players’ union spokesman Juan Jose Montaner. He didn’t have
details on how many had been paid since then.  Incidences of non-payment are on the increase because of
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, Perry said.  Clubs have “basically bought players and financed players
on the expectancy they would get loans and things being good,”
he said. “When things go bad, they don’t have the cash flow to
pay.”  PAOK, a two-time Greek champion, was also fined 50,000
euros, with a further 200,000 euros suspended for a period of
three years following UEFA’s probe. More teams could face fines
or be barred from entering the Champions League and Europa
League competitions because of their finances, Perry added.  ‘Tough Sanctions’  “We’ll take tough sanctions,” he said. “We have done in
the past and we’ll continue to do so.”  The lack of certainty over wages in countries including
 Spain ,  Portugal ,  Greece  and  Hungary  has led some players to sign
lower-paid contracts with clubs in those that have a reputation
for paying on time, said Theo Van Seggelen, secretary general of
FIFPro, the world players’ union.  “They’re understanding it’s better to have lower salary
than bigger salary that’s never paid at all,” Van Seggelen said
in a telephone interview.  England’s Premier League demands its clubs provide
quarterly statements to prove they’ve paid their bills. In 2010,
Portsmouth became the first team since the league was
established in 1992 to seek bankruptcy protection after being
threatened with closure over unpaid taxes. Sanctions for those
falling behind in their payments include transfer bans and
enforced player sales.  As well as being scrutinized by  UEFA  and national league
officials, clubs are increasingly being targeted by tax
authorities who need to raise funds to boost domestic economies,
said Van Seggelen.  “How can you explain to your population that everybody has
to pay taxes with the exception of clubs?” he said. “So we are
in trouble. The whole of football is in trouble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  