-- Ex-Goldman Programmer Freed After Theft Conviction Thrown Out
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/ex-goldman-programmer-s-conviction-overturned-on-appeal.html
A former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
computer programmer was freed after his conviction for stealing
the bank’s high-speed trading code was reversed by a U.S.
appeals court.  Wearing a grey sweatsuit, white tennis shoes and a huge
grin,  Sergey Aleynikov , 42, left the Manhattan courthouse where
he had been convicted in December 2010 and entered a waiting car
with his lawyer,  Kevin Marino .  “Justice occasionally works,” Aleynikov told reporters as
he left. “This was such big news to me I haven’t had any time
to think about what would happen.”  Aleynikov, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in  Russia , said
he hoped to be with his three daughters, ages 8, 6 and 3. Until
yesterday, he had been serving an eight-year sentence at the
federal prison in Fort Dix,  New Jersey .  “I’m very grateful to my mother and my aunt who supported
me from Russia, and my friends who stood by me and believed in
my innocence,” he said. “One lesson you learn is to really
start valuing your life, day-to-day is a victory.”  After hearing oral arguments from both prosecutors and
Marino on Feb. 16, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan issued
a one-page order vacating Aleynikov’s convictions for economic
espionage and the interstate transportation of stolen property.
The appeals court said it would issue an opinion explaining the
ruling later.  ‘We Won’  “Kevin e-mailed me at 6 a.m.,” Aleynikov said as he left
the courthouse. “I woke up at 5:30 a.m. and I read it five
times. The words were, ‘We won.’”  The appeals court also issued a mandate that would have
foreclosed any further challenge to its decision. The office of
 Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara persuaded the court to set
aside the mandate so it can argue for a rehearing of the appeal,
either before a three-judge panel or all the court’s available
judges.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office,
declined to comment on the ruling.  Marino said he was confident the appeals court’s decision
would stand.  “It’s over now,” said Marino, of  Marino, Tortorella &
Boyle PC  in Chatham, New Jersey. “We’re on firm ground. This
was a wrongheaded prosecution that should never have been
brought.”  Source Code  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote, who presided over the
trial, ordered Aleynikov released from prison this morning.
After a brief hearing this afternoon with prosecutors, Aleynikov
and his lawyers, she agreed to release him on his own
recognizance.  Aleynikov was convicted by a jury in December 2010 of
violating the Economic Espionage Act and the Interstate
Transportation of Stolen Property Act. He was sentenced last
March.  On his last day of work at New York-based Goldman Sachs in
June 2009, Aleynikov uploaded hundreds of thousands of lines of
source code from the firm’s high-frequency trading system,
prosecutors said.  He circumvented Goldman Sachs’s security, sent the code to
a server in  Germany , compressed and encrypted it, and took it
with him to a meeting with new employers in  Chicago , the U.S.
said. Prosecutors argued Aleynikov wanted it as a “cheat
sheet” to start a trading system at his new job.  Espionage Act  During oral arguments on Feb. 16, the three-judge appeals
panel criticized the government’s application of the espionage
act to Aleynikov’s actions, asking the prosecutor how the crime
occurred and how it affected commerce.  The judges -- Dennis Jacobs, 67, Guido Calabresi, 79, and
Rosemary Pooler, 73 -- also asked if taking Goldman Sachs’s
trading code was comparable to taking copyrighted material or
bringing an employee manual to a new job.  Marino argued that the trial judge had “bent over
backward” to let the government apply the espionage statute and
argued the case should have been prosecuted in state court.  Marino argued, as he had during the trial, that Aleynikov
only took open-source code he had written at Goldman Sachs. He
said the government had tried to expand its reading of the
Economic Espionage Act to encompass that.  “There is no trade secret,” Marino told the court. “He
took it to make his new job easier, he never intended to harm
Goldman.”  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 1:10-cr-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 