-- Texas Rice Farms Look for Miracle
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-02-17T20:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/texas-rice-farmers-look-for-miracle-as-irrigation-cutoff-looms.html
Rains in  Texas  have failed to refill
water reservoirs for the state’s main rice-growing areas,
prompting the first-ever restrictions on irrigation that may
lead to the smallest planted acreage since the 1920s.  The Lower Colorado River Authority, which manages lakes
supplying water to 1.1 million people, including the city of
Austin, Texas, plans to stop releasing water for irrigation on
March 1, right before the start of  planting  for this year. The
restriction would affect farmers in Colorado, Matagorda and
Wharton counties, which produced 62 percent of the Texas rice
crop and 3.7 percent of the U.S. harvest in 2009.  While central and eastern Texas received as much as double
the normal amount of rain so far this year, that isn’t enough to
make up for getting less than half the normal moisture in 2011.
Lake Travis and Lake Buchanan, the two main reservoirs providing
irrigation for farmers, were about 38 percent full as of
yesterday, according to the water district.  “If we get no water, I won’t farm any rice this coming
year,” said Mike Burnside, who normally grows rice on 1,000
acres in  Bay City , Texas. “We do have crop-insurance protection
for prevented planting, which will let us survive the year. But
the seed salesman, fertilizer salesman, everybody is suffering
under the drought.”  Lower rice output in the U.S., as farmers switch to more
profitable corn, and as saltwater erodes soil in  Louisiana , may
send prices on the Chicago Board of Trade up 11 percent to $16
per 100 pounds by November, the highest since November 2011,
Dennis DeLaughter, the owner of Progressive Farm Marketing Inc.
in Edna, Texas, said in a telephone interview. Futures for May
delivery settled at $14.385 today in Chicago.  Global Supply  Rice futures have dropped 18 percent in the past six months
as prospects for rising output in  India ,  China  and  Indonesia 
signaled higher global stockpiles. World food prices have fallen
9.9 percent from a record in February 2011, partly because of
lower grain costs, United Nations data show.  The UN’s Food & Agriculture Organization said Feb. 1 that
prices probably will drop in coming months as global demand for
imports weakens, while supplies and reserves expand. Global
milled-rice trade may slip 5 percent to 32.8 million metric tons
in 2012 from a record 34.5 million in 2011, the UN said.  “We are long-term bullish because rice is the staple food
of the world, and there will be problems,” said DeLaughter, who
correctly predicted last year’s rally to $18. In the U.S.,
“some of these mills are going to get really nervous about the
supply of rice available to them, with acres declining.”  U.S. Benchmark  Prices in Chicago are used as a benchmark for U.S. millers,
who mostly buy domestically grown crops. The U.S. was the
world’s fifth-biggest rice exporter in the past year, behind
 Vietnam ,  Thailand , India and  Pakistan , according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture .  Texas, the fourth-largest U.S. grower last year after
 Arkansas ,  California  and Louisiana, may plant about 90,000 acres
of rice this year, Larry Falconer, an agricultural economist at
 Texas A&M University  in  Corpus Christi , said in a telephone
interview. That would be the lowest since at least 1929,
according to the earliest data available from the USDA.  Rice production, milling and other related industries
provided more than 4,000 jobs to Wharton, Colorado and Matagorda
counties last year, and contributed about $458.3 million to the
local economy, Falconer said. The three counties had a total
population of about 98,900 in 2010, according to U.S. Census
Bureau data.  Lake Travis and Lake Buchanan held about 767,000 acre feet
of  water  as of yesterday, equal to about 249.9 billion gallons
(946 billion liters), according to the water district. Recent
rains expanded the lakes by about 4.2 percent from 736,000 acre
feet on Dec. 1, the lowest level since 1964, said Clara Tuma, a
spokeswoman for the Lower Colorado River Authority in Austin.  Not Enough  Still, irrigation won’t be allowed unless lake levels climb
to 850,000 acre feet, and the amount of water farmers would be
able to use would be restricted until levels reach 920,000 acre
feet, Tuma said. The region had its driest 12-month period on
record from October 2010 to September 2011, which resulted in a
record-low amount of water flowing into the lakes, Tuma said.  It’s unlikely that storms will bring enough rain by March 1
to boost lake levels enough for farmers to irrigate, said John Nielsen-Gammon, the state climatologist. Texas received 15.05
inches (38 centimeters) on average statewide in 2011, the driest
year since 1917, he said. Western, central and southern Texas
were the driest on records dating to 1895, he said.  “The problem is, to get significant inflows into the
lakes, the soil would have to be moist enough to allow most of
the rain to run off,” Nielsen-Gammon said. “It would probably
take several inches of rain to do it.”  Digging Wells  Burnside, the Bay City farmer, said some growers are
digging wells, hoping to tap into enough ground water to make up
for the lost surface-water irrigation, normally pumped by LCRA
through  canals  along the Colorado River. A typical well costing
around $250,000 would only be big enough to irrigate about 300
acres, too expensive for most farmers, including him, Burnside
said.  “We’ve got another 20 days to see if we can catch some
rain,” Burnside said. “Miracles do happen. It’s in God’s hands
now. We’ve just got to roll with it and keep on going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  