-- Exelon Gains Maryland’s Approval for Constellation Takeover
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-02-17T22:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/exelon-gains-maryland-s-approval-for-constellation-takeover-1-.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC)  won conditional
approval from Maryland regulators for its takeover of
 Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) , leaving one regulatory hurdle
to the $7.36 billion merger announced nine months ago.  The five-member Public Service Commission voted to set 40
conditions for approving the deal, including a $113.5 million
fund to assist customers, more renewable-energy investments and
a $100 customer rebate, according to a statement today.  The terms incorporate more than $1 billion in investments
that Chicago-based Exelon pledged in December as part of a
settlement with Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley , quadrupling
the $250 million package of economic incentives Exelon proposed
when the merger was announced.  “We accept the additional conditions that the Comission
has imposed,” Exelon Chief Operation Officer Christopher M. Crane said in a statement. He will become chief executive
officer after the merger is completed.  Texas , New York, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission and
Justice Department have signed off on the merger. The Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, which oversees wholesale
electricity markets and power transmission, is the last approval
needed. The deal is expected to close by March 31,  John Rowe ,
Exelon’s chairman and CEO, said during a Jan. 25 earnings call.  Appeasing the Opposition  Analysts had predicted Maryland would prove Rowe’s toughest
challenge in gaining approval for the transaction announced
April 28. O’Malley, who in 2006 thwarted a takeover of
Baltimore-based Constellation by Florida’s  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) ,
previously opposed the Exelon bid.  Exelon pledged to buy more electricity from wind, solar and
biomass power plants in the state. It also announced a
settlement with Electricite de France that guarantees the
partner on Constellation’s nuclear power plants a role in the
operation of the reactors.  Regulators redirected some of the money that Exelon had
earlier pledged to O’Malley into a new $113.5 million fund that
will assist low-income customers and support energy efficiency.  Exelon fell 0.6 percent to $39.27 at the close in  New York .
Constellation declined 0.7 percent to $36.40.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  