-- Mexican Peso Rises as Greece Optimism Boosts Economic Confidence
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-02-17T23:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/mexican-peso-rises-as-greece-optimism-boosts-economic-confidence.html
Mexico ’s peso gained for a second
day as optimism that  Greece  will get a bailout reduced concern
about global growth, fueling confidence in the expansion of
Latin America’s second-biggest economy.  The peso rose 0.5 percent to 12.7593 per  U.S. dollar  at the
close in Mexico City, from 12.8174 yesterday. It has gained 0.3
percent this week, and 9.2 percent this year.  Emerging-market currencies rose against the dollar as
investors speculated that euro-area officials are nearing an
agreement on a bailout for Greece. U.K. retail sales
unexpectedly rose for a second month in January. The index of
U.S. leading indicators rose in January for a fourth month,
signaling the world’s largest economy will keep expanding
through the first half of 2012. The U.S. is the destination for
about 80 percent of Mexican exports.  “There’s good data in  Europe , in particular in the U.K.,”
 Rafael Camarena , a Mexico City-based economist at Banco
Santander SA, said by phone. “If the European economy improves,
the global economy also could feel the impact -- the U.S. and
Mexico.”  Mexico central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said this
week that that economic growth expectations for the Latin
American country haven’t fallen, maintaining his forecasts for
expansion this year and next of 3 percent to 4 percent.  Euro-area governments closed in on a deal to unlock a 130
billion-euro ($171 billion) aid package for Greece, seeking to
avert the region’s first sovereign default.  Germany , the biggest
country contributor to euro-area rescues, signaled that finance
ministers may be ready to back Greece’s second bailout in two
years when they meet Feb. 20 in Brussels.  The yield on peso-denominated debt due in 2024 rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.5 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price of the
securities fell 0.29 centavo to 130.39 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  