-- U.S. Insider Probe Widens With Ex-SanDisk Official Plea
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-18T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/expert-networker-john-kinnucan-charged-with-insider-trading.html
Ex-SanDisk Corp. executive Donald Barnetson pleaded guilty to passing nonpublic information to
hedge fund consultant John Kinnucan in the U.S.’s five-year
crackdown on insider trading by fund managers, expert-networking
consultants and employees of publicly-traded companies.  Barnetson revealed his own role in the conspiracy yesterday
at a plea hearing in Manhattan federal court. In  Portland ,
Oregon, Kinnucan, an analyst who gained national attention for
refusing to cooperate with the FBI, was ordered held without
bail on charges he passed and received illegal tips. The U.S.
said he engaged in a “pattern of threats and intimidation” and
left anti-Semitic messages for prosecutors and FBI agents. U.S.
Magistrate Judge John Acosta set the next hearing for Feb. 22.  The probe by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in  New
York  and the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s Office, called operation
“ Perfect Hedge ,” has resulted in charges against at least 64
people. Since 2009, more than 50 individuals have either pleaded
guilty or been convicted at trial, including Galleon Group LLC
co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who is serving an 11-year prison term.  In October, the U.S. charged  Rajat Gupta , a former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Procter & Gamble Co. director. The
government said he leaked nonpublic information to Rajaratnam.
Gupta, who has denied wrongdoing, is scheduled for trial in May.  The U.S. initiative expanded earlier this week to focus on
banks and activities in Taiwan, with an investigation of Henry King, a Goldman Sachs analyst covering Taiwanese technology
companies, a person familiar with the matter said.  Outbound Marketing  Barnetson, 37, formerly a senior director of outbound
marketing at Milpitas, California-based SanDisk, the biggest
maker of flash-memory cards, said he passed illegal tips.
Kinnucan shared them with clients, according to the plea
agreement, including  hedge funds  and money managers.  Barnetson, who is cooperating with the government, pleaded
guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit securities and  wire
fraud . He faces as long as five years in prison and was ordered
released on $50,000 bond.  “I conspired with a consultant to provide confidential
information with regard to my employer at the time,  SanDisk
Corp. (SNDK) ,” Barnetson told U.S. Magistrate Judge Gabriel Gorenstein
at the hearing.  Tipped Kinnucan  Prosecutors claim Barnetson tipped Kinnucan in July 2010
about SanDisk’s anticipated  revenue , which wasn’t public. In
September 2010, he told Kinnucan about confidential negotiations
about a legal dispute between SanDisk and Apple Inc., according
to the complaint.  Kinnucan paid Barnetson with a $25,000 investment in a
business he was starting, as well as meals at expensive
restaurants and food deliveries, according to the criminal
complaint against Kinnucan. The consultant also gave Barnetson
inside information about other companies, according to
prosecutors.  Kinnucan, 54, the founder of  Broadband Research  LLC, was
arrested at his Portland home Feb. 16. He was charged in the
criminal complaint unsealed in New York federal court with one
count of conspiracy to commit  securities fraud , one count of
conspiracy to commit wire fraud and two counts of securities
fraud.  Yesterday, Carlson Capital LP, a $4.4 billion hedge-fund
firm based in  Dallas , said that one of its former portfolio
managers had received inside information from Kinnucan.  Nine Months  “The individual referenced was at the firm for nine months
and left in March 2011,” Carlson said in a statement without
identifying the person. “Carlson has cooperated fully with the
government and has been informed that it is not a target of the
investigation. The former employee was the only member of the
firm to use this consultant.”  Kinnucan used “financial incentives, fancy meals and other
inducements to curry favor with public company insiders so
they’d serve up their employer’s secrets,”  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose office is prosecuting the case,
said in a statement.  Kinnucan allegedly paid one source of illegal tips $27,500.
He also provided inside information to his clients on the
understanding they would use the tips to execute transactions,
Assistant U.S. Attorneys Avi Weitzman and Katherine Goldstein
said in the complaint.  From 2008 to 2010, Kinnucan obtained nonpublic information
such as quarterly revenue numbers from co-conspirators who
worked at publicly traded companies such as F5 Networks Inc.,
SanDisk and Flextronics International Ltd., according to
prosecutors.  Sought Information  In June and July of 2010, he sought information about F5’s
financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, from an
F5 employee, the U.S. said.  Kinnucan obtained information about F5's quarterly results 
from an F5 employee in a July 2, 2010, telephone call, prosecutors 
said. While Kinnucan said revenue guidance the company had 
previously provided was $220 million, the F5 employee told 
Kinnucan the unadjusted revenue number was actually “$232 million,” 
confirming the company would beat Wall Street’s consensus, the 
U.S. said.  Within minutes of the conversation, Kinnucan called
numerous Broadband clients to provide them with the inside
information and at least two executed trades based in whole or
in part on the information Kinnucan provided, earning profits or
avoiding losses of more than $1.5 million, according to the
government.  To attract and retain clients and to hide the true identity
of his sources, Kinnucan lied to Broadband Research clients
about the sources of inside information by claiming falsely that
none of them were employed at publicly traded companies and that
he didn’t pay them for information, the U.S. said.  Broadband Research  “Kinnucan’s company, Broadband Research, was a misnomer,”
Janice Fedarcyk, head of the FBI’s New York office, said in a
statement. “As the complaint alleges, the information he
obtained and passed along to clients was not the result of
research. It was inside information Kinnucan bought from company
insiders. That kind of information beats research every time.
The only problem is it isn’t legal.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a
parallel lawsuit against Kinnucan yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan. The agency claims that he got tips in 2009 and 2010
from insiders at publicly traded technology companies and shared
the information with several unnamed fund managers.  The SEC said Kinnucan generated hundreds of thousands of
dollars in annual revenue for Broadband Research from a series
of “well-placed employees” at public companies.  Financial Results  “Obtaining important unreported financial results from
company insiders and selling that information to hedge funds is
not legitimate expert networking services, it’s old fashioned
 insider trading ,” said  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s director of
enforcement.  Kinnucan whose public refusal of an FBI request to wear a
wire presaged a dozen insider-trading arrests, said in a July 8
interview that he expected to be arrested.  “Am I a target? Yeah, absolutely,” Kinnucan said in the
interview. “There’s a saying that the government indicts who
they investigate, so I have always assumed that I was a
target.”  Kinnucan denied he ever received illegal tips on companies,
and insisted the kind of information he provided hedge fund
clients was publicly available.  Sent E-Mail  In October 2010, he sent an e-mail saying he had been
approached by federal agents who asked him to record
conversations with an unidentified money manager. The message
was sent to about 50 recipients, including clients such as
Wellington Management Co. in  Boston , Janus Capital Group Inc. in
Denver and SAC Capital Advisors LP in Stamford,  Connecticut .
None of those firms has been accused of wrongdoing.  Federal prosecutors in New York last year disclosed in
court papers that they had a court-authorized wiretap on
Kinnucan’s mobile phone. His calls were recorded in talks with
Donald Longueuil, a former SAC portfolio manager, and Level
Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson, prosecutors
said.  At yesterday’s hearing, prosecutors said Kinnucan should be
held without bail. The U.S. cited numerous calls as well as
ethnic and racial slurs and references to Adolf Hitler and the
Holocaust.  “Kinnucan has engaged in volatile and extreme conduct,
using references to genocide, violence and physical harm
directed to the targets of his ominous tirades,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Chris LaVigne in New York said in papers filed in
federal court in Portland.  Hitler  On Dec. 6, prosecutors said, Kinnucan left a voice-mail
message for an unidentified prosecutor saying “Remember me? The
guy who you tried to destroy,” followed by a series of
expletives, the government said. Kinnucan added, according to
prosecutors, “Ah, too bad Hitler’s not around. He’d know what
to do with scum like you.”  The calls “are the actions of a volatile and hostile
individual” prosecutors argued. He also allegedly threatened
cooperating witnesses, the government said.  Longueuil was sentenced in July to 2 1/2 years in prison
for his role in an insider-trading scheme. Chiasson pleaded not
guilty Feb. 14 to conspiracy and securities-fraud charges in
federal court in Manhattan.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps said at the Feb. 14
hearing that prosecutors had recordings of conversations between
Chiasson and Kinnucan.  Four Men  Chiasson was one of four men arrested last month and
charged with participating in a “criminal club” that made
almost $62 million using illegal tips to trade in  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
stock. Prosecutors said the ring, which allegedly involved five
hedge funds and investment firms, is the largest identified by
the U.S. to date tied to a single stock.  Expert-networking firms such as Broadband connect investors
with industry experts who provide insight into a specific market.  Walter Shimoon, a former Flextronics International Ltd.
executive charged with insider trading who pleaded guilty in
July, said in court that he gave Kinnucan confidential nonpublic
information about his own company, as well as about OmniVision
Technologies Inc., Apple and Cisco Systems Inc.  Kinnucan said in July that he didn’t know why the
government would focus on him, saying his research was
“entirely in line” with standard industry practices. “This
was industry gossip,” he said of his work.  ‘Find Every Day’  “The stuff we talked about you can find every day,
publicly, on the Internet,” he said.  During his plea before U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff,
Shimoon said he provided “specific production schedules and
forecasts for Flextronics customers and about its suppliers like
OmniVision, which produced camera sensors.”  Shimoon said that, at the time, he was working as a paid
consultant for Broadband Research, which Kinnucan opened in 1999,
as well as for  Mountain View , California-based Primary Global
Research LLC, another expert-networking firm.  Shimoon said Primary Global paid him about $200 an hour and
that he had earned a total of $18,000 from the company for
passing secret tips to hedge fund managers. Shimoon said he got
more than $27,000 from Kinnucan’s firm.  The crime was committed “in connection with Shimoon
providing material, nonpublic information to John Kinnucan,
Broadband Research, and, indirectly, to Broadband Research’s
clients, including money managers,” the government said in
court papers in Shimoon’s case.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-MAG-424, and the
civil case is SEC v. Kinnucan, 12-CV-1230, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  