-- Gamestop to J.C. Penney Shut Facebook Stores
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2012-02-22T14:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/f-commerce-trips-as-gap-to-penney-shut-facebook-stores-retail.html
(Corrects to remove wrongly attributed quote in seventh
paragraph of Feb. 17 story.)  Last April,  Gamestop Corp. (GME)  opened a
store on Facebook to generate sales among the 3.5 million-plus
customers who’d declared themselves “fans” of the video game
retailer. Six months later, the store was quietly shuttered.  Gamestop has company. Over the past year, Gap Inc.,  J.C.
Penney (JCP)  Co. and  Nordstrom (JWN)  Inc. have all opened and closed
storefronts on  Facebook Inc.’s (FB)  social networking site.  Facebook, which this month filed for an initial public
offering, has sought to be a top shopping destination for its
845 million members. The stores’ quick failure shows that the
 Menlo Park , California-based social network doesn’t drive
commerce and casts doubt on its value for retailers, said
 Sucharita Mulpuru , an analyst at Forrester Research in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  “There was a lot of anticipation that Facebook would turn
into a new destination, a store, a place where people would
shop,” Mulpuru said in a telephone interview. “But it was like
trying to sell stuff to people while they’re hanging out with
their friends at the bar.”  A year ago, investors hailed so-called F-commerce as the
next big thing, speculating that the company had potential to
threaten  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and PayPal Inc. Facebook is the most-
visited website in the world. Some people thought that
persuading visitors to shop would be easy, Mulpuru said.  David Fisch, Facebook’s director of business development,
said in June that the site would make shopping online,
previously a solitary experience, more social.  Physical Goods  Facebook planned to profit from retailers buying ads to
drive traffic to their on-site stores. Business consultant Booz
& Co.  predicted  in January 2011 that physical goods sold through
social commerce would balloon to $30 billion from $5 billion by
2015, with Facebook contributing a majority of sales.  Even as some businesses shut storefronts, many companies
continue to devote advertising dollars to the social network.
Facebook’s sales surged 55 percent to $1.13 billion in the
fourth quarter. The company aims to use e-commerce more as a way
of getting users to stay longer than as a way to boost revenue,
said Krista Garcia, an analyst at EMarketer Inc. in  New York .  Chris Kraeuter, a Facebook spokesman, declined to comment.  Customers had no incentive to shop at  Gamestop (GEM) ’s Facebook
store rather than the company’s regular website because
purchasing online is already convenient, said Ashley Sheetz, who
is the Grapevine, Texas-based company’s vice president of
marketing and strategy.  Shut Quickly  “We just didn’t get the return on investment we needed
from the Facebook market, so we shut it down pretty quickly,”
Sheetz said in a telephone interview. “For us, it’s been a way
we communicate with customers on deals, not a place to sell.”  Gap (GPS) , which has 5.6 million Facebook fans from its namesake,
 Banana Republic  and Old Navy pages, opened and discontinued a
storefront last year, said Liz Nunan, a company spokeswoman. The
San Francisco-based company also discovered customers preferred
shopping on its own sites, she said.  “We will continue to evaluate if this is something we want
to bring back in the future,” Nunan said in an emailed
statement.  Nordstrom tested ways to make shopping “seamless through
Facebook” and decided on a broader social media focus,  Colin
Johnson , a spokesman, said.  J.C. Penney featured assortments in a Facebook “shop” tab
beginning in 2010, and took it down in December 2011, Kate
Coultas, a spokeswoman said in an emailed statement.  Cracks in Model  Wade Gerten, chief executive officer of social media
developer 8thBridge, previously known as Alvenda, opened a
Facebook store for the florist 1-800-FLOWERS. Minneapolis-based
Gerten went on to develop commerce strategies for  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL) , Diane Von Furstenberg Studio LP and denim-maker
Seven for all Mankind.  Cracks in the model showed quickly, Gerten said in a
telephone interview. Clients “have taken a different
approach,” shutting stores or scaling back their offerings.  “It was basically just another place to shop for all the
stuff already available on the retailer websites,” Gerten said.
“I give so-called F-commerce an ‘F.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  