-- Facebook Wins Lawsuit Over Power Ventures’ Unauthorized Use of Login Data
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-02-17T18:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/facebook-wins-summary-judgment-ruling-in-power-ventures-case-1-.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the operator of the
world’s largest social-networking site, won a 2008 lawsuit
accusing Power Ventures Inc.’s Power.com of accessing and
storing users’ login data without authorization.  The ruling yesterday by U.S. District Judge James Ware
paves the way for hearings on damages for Facebook.  “The undisputed facts establish that defendants
circumvented technical barriers” to access Facebook’s site,
Ware wrote in a 19-page opinion issued without a trial.  Facebook sued Power Ventures in December 2008 in federal
court in San Jose,  California , saying Power.com offered users
the ability to retrieve their Facebook messages and other
information from Facebook’s computer servers without permission.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park , California, accused
Power.com of infringing its copyrights and trademarks and
violating computer fraud and unfair competition laws. It sought
a court order prohibiting further access and unspecific damages.  Power Ventures is based in the  Cayman Islands , according to
court papers.  Power.com  is up for sale on the Internet.  Facebook filed papers with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for an initial public offering on Feb. 1.  “We are pleased that the court ruled in our favor,” Craig
Clark, lead litigation counsel for Facebook, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We will continue to enforce our rights against bad
actors who attempt to circumvent Facebook’s privacy and security
protections and spam people.”  “Facebook has established a dangerous precedent for the
future of users rights to own and control their data,” said
Steven Vachani, chief executive officer of Power Ventures, in an
e-mailed statement. “We intend to aggressively continue this
fight.”  The case is Facebook Inc. v. Power Ventures Inc., 08CV5780,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  