-- Falcone, Harbinger Capital Sued by Investor Over LightSquared Investment
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/falcone-s-harbinger-is-sued-by-investor-over-lightsquared-wireless-venture.html
Hedge fund manager Phil Falcone and
his Harbinger Capital Partners were sued by a  New York  woman who
claims she and others were misled about the fund’s decision to
put most of the money they invested into  LightSquared Inc. (SKYT)   Lili Schad, a Wallkill, New York, resident who said she
invested $4 million with Harbinger, claiming she wasn’t told
that more than 60 percent of the partnerhip’s money went into
LightSquared, a company attempting to build a high-speed
wireless network, according to a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in  Manhattan .  Schad, who seeks to represent all the limited partners in
Harbinger Capital Partners Fund I LP, also claims she wasn’t
informed that LightSquared’s plan to build the network faced
obstacles from U.S. regulators. The suit seeks unspecified
damages.  “Had plaintiff known that defendants would concentrate the
fund’s investments in LightSquared or known of the regulatory
obstacles the company faced, she would have refrained from
investing in the fund or immediately sought to withdraw her
investment from the fund,” Schad said in the complaint.  Schad alleged that Harbinger allowed some “favored
investors,” including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , to redeem their
investments on terms unavailable to others. She said that in
2009 Harbinger let Goldman Sachs redeem a $50 million investment
in the fund.  Lew Phelps, an outside spokesman for Harbinger Capital,
didn’t immediately return a phone message yesterday seeking
comment on the suit.  FCC Decision  The U.S. Federal Communications Commission said Feb. 14 it
won’t let Reston, Virginia-based LightSquared begin service
because its signals interfere with GPS navigation of cars, boats
and planes. Harbinger Capital has invested $3 billion in the
venture.  Falcone is seeking to swap spectrum owned by LightSquared
with that controlled by the U.S. Department of Defense, a person
with knowledge of the company said, in an effort to salvage his
$3 billion investment and save his hedge fund.  The hedge fund manager hired Moelis & Co., a New York-based
investment bank, and other advisers to help study alternatives,
said the person, who asked not to be named because the company
is private. If the defense department is not interested in a
swap, Falcone could try to sell the spectrum.  How much he could get for it remains unclear. As of the end
of January, Falcone carried his investment in LightSquared
equity at $1.5 billion, or about half of what his hedge fund had
invested to date, according to a Harbinger document.  Book Value  Brian Miller, an analyst at Bloomberg Research, says the
spectrum is now worth about $500 million. That’s the book value
that its former owner SkyTerra Communications placed on it when
it was originally licensed. At that time the spectrum could only
be used by satellites. In November 2004, the FCC ruled that the
satellite system could be augmented with land-based cell towers,
which was the network LightSquared planned to build.  The FCC’s Feb. 14 decision wasn’t “based on science or
technology, but was a politically motivated decision fueled by
special interest groups in the GPS and telecom industry,”
Falcone, 49, said in an e-mailed statement Feb. 15. “There
are solutions to this problem that can and will address the
needs of the GPS community,” added Falcone, who declined to be
interviewed.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and  Justice
Department  are investigating him over alleged violations of
 securities law . He’s had to borrow $190 million from Jefferies
Group Inc. with an effective interest rate of 24 percent, has
investor cash tied up in an iron-ore company in  Brazil  that he’s
now trying to sell and posted record losses last year. Falcone
has denied any wrongdoing.  The case is Schad v. Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, 12-
CV-1244, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 