-- Federal Workers Face ‘Unprecedented Assault’ in U.S. Budget War
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/federal-workers-face-unprecedented-assault-in-u-s-budget-war.html
Congress is considering ways to cut
U.S. federal workers’ pay, benefits and possibly their jobs even
as a record number are borrowing against pensions.  Concern over the situation almost derailed a deal to extend
the payroll tax cut this week as several lawmakers objected to a
provision that would have required  federal workers  to contribute
more to their pensions. In the end, negotiators agreed to target
newly hired federal workers.  There’s more ahead, as moves to hold down government
salaries mirror tightening at the state and local levels.
Congress is considering extending a two-year federal pay freeze
for another year, through 2013. Bills designed to reduce the
federal workforce continue to be introduced. And another measure
is pending that includes across-the-board requirements for more
contributions to pensions.  “We are witnessing an unprecedented assault on public
employees and federal employees in particular,” said U.S.
Representative Gerald Connolly, a Democrat whose suburban
 Virginia  district has one of the nation’s largest concentrations
of government workers. “I am mortally offended on their behalf
that they continue to be singled out for every sacrifice.”  Lawmakers in  Maryland , home to more than 300,000 federal
workers, have also joined the fight. Democratic Senator  Ben Cardin  and Democratic Representative  Chris Van Hollen , whose
district includes the Washington suburb of Bethesda, helped kill
the initial pension provision in the payroll tax deal.  Future Workers  “We still strongly oppose the provision that raises $15
billion to help offset the cost of this package from future
workers,” the two lawmakers said in a statement yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  called both Van Hollen and Cardin on
the evening of Feb. 15 to press them to agree to a deal. Cardin
said Obama assured him that federal employees’ salaries and
benefits wouldn’t become a routine target.  “The president was pretty strong on his commitment to
helping us make sure that doesn’t happen,” Cardin told
reporters.  All told, there are about 4 million federal employees,
according to Census data gathered by the National Treasury
Employees Union.  California , Virginia, Maryland and  Texas  have
the highest numbers of workers; more than 80 percent are outside
the Washington metropolitan area.  Federal figures show those employees and federal retirees
may be in distress, even as the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
says household indebtedness among the general population is
declining. One in five participants in the federal thrift
savings retirement plan, or a record 893,200 people, have loans
against their accounts, according to the Federal Retirement
Thrift Investment Board.  ‘Same Struggles’  That shouldn’t be a surprise, said Julie Tagen, legislative
director of the 300,000-member National Active and Retired
Federal Employees Association in Alexandria, Virginia. Most
federal workers make between $25,000 and $75,000 a year, and
they are coping with a pay freeze, she said.  “Everyone forgets that federal employees have the same
struggles that everyone else has, and they’re middle class,”
Tagen said. “There’s a lot of hardship out there.”  State workers have been squeezed for years as local
officials struggle with budget shortfalls and underfunded
pensions. Thirty-three states have assets of less than 80
percent of what they need to pay out the benefits already
promised to their workers, according to an annual study of
pensions by Bloomberg Rankings.  Where’s ‘Nexus?’  While the federal government is also weighed down by
deficits, what bothers Connolly about the current battles is
that there is no obvious connection between the pieces of
legislation, such as a payroll tax cut, and the money being
sought to fund them. That’s different than a highway bill that
assesses gas taxes on drivers using the roads.  “What is the nexus?” Connolly said in a telephone
interview. “Republicans are afraid or unwilling to ask anybody
else to make any kind of sacrifice.”  Federal employees aren’t helped by reports such as a recent
one from the  Congressional Budget Office  that found federal
workers’ salaries top those in the private sector. Republican
presidential candidates, including former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney, point to the disparity while campaigning.  “People who are government servants, public servants,
should not be paid more than the taxpayers who are paying for
it,” Romney said during a Jan. 8 candidate debate.  Pay Scales  There may be little sympathy for federal workers among the
general public, where pensions with set benefits have become
scarce and U.S. unemployment hovers at 8.3 percent. Studies of
government salaries show benefits outpace the private sector.  The reports can be misleading, said James Horney, vice
president of federal fiscal policy at the  Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities , a nonpartisan research institute in
 Washington . While less-educated workers have slightly higher
salaries in federal jobs, better-educated employees are
underpaid, he said.  “They clearly have decided this is a target to go after,”
Horney said. If qualified people see too many cutbacks on the
federal level, the government will have trouble finding highly
skilled workers that can handle advanced scientific and
information system work, he said.  “We’re going to have a very hard time attracting the kind
of civil servants that we really want and need,” Horney said.  Advocates for federal employees are fighting back with
letters, calls and plans to visit lawmakers. Tagen estimates
that her group flooded  Capitol Hill  with more than 7,500 calls
on Feb. 15 from all 50 states. She’s now focusing on getting
members to attend town-hall meetings during the congressional
recess over the Easter holiday.  Tagen said her main worry is that Congress and Obama will
continue to look to federal employees to make more sacrifices.
While Republicans are pushing most of the cutbacks now, Obama
had proposed the two-year pay freeze, and savings from federal
pensions were also in the budget plan released Feb. 13.  “They’re just looked at as an ATM machine,” Tagen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  