-- Ford Free to Offer Proposal for Blast-Proof Trucks, Army Says
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-02-17T20:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/ford-free-to-offer-proposal-for-blast-proof-trucks-army-says.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  can submit an
unsolicited proposal for a potential $54 billion in work
replacing U.S. military Humvees with blast-proof, all-terrain
vehicles, the U.S. Army Secretary said.  Ford led a push by commercial-truck makers to challenge
defense contractors for the second development phase of the
Joint Light Tactical Vehicle program, which the Army shares with
the Marine Corps. The automaker said on Feb. 6 that it won’t
compete because it can’t meet the program’s deadlines.  Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford had initially proposed
bearing about $400 million in costs to build production-ready
prototypes without the government funding normally awarded
during development, according to a presentation circulated in
Congress in November. The company said its vehicle would provide
better protection to troops at a lower price and weight than
competitors.  “We can’t pull plugs” on a program because of one
possible competitor’s claims, Army Secretary John McHugh said
today at a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee. McHugh
answered a question by Republican Representative Duncan Hunter
of  California  who asked why the Army wouldn’t accept the Ford
team’s offer and extend the program’s timeline.  McHugh said that, while doing so would be a “very tenuous
decision,” the Army would consider an unsolicited proposal
outside the current competition.  The Army opened on Jan. 26 the second round of competition
to develop light, blast-resistant trucks that would replace part
of the Humvee fleet.   General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ,  Lockheed Martin
Corp. and   BAE Systems Plc (BA)  won first-stage contracts in 2008 for
technology development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  