-- Former Highway Bill Foe Boehner Scavenging for U.S. House Votes
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-02-17T18:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/former-highway-bill-foe-boehner-scavenging-for-u-s-house-votes.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  has
never voted for highway-funding legislation, and he’s having
trouble selling fellow Republicans on a plan written with them
in mind.  The bill he planned to push through the House this week is
being delayed amid criticism from his Republican majority as
well as Democrats. Although Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Democrat, this week called the House plan “a love note to the
 Tea Party ,” Republicans who have made cutting the size of
government their chief goal say they are bothered by the $260
billion price tag.  “We’re dipping deep, deep into the general fund for what
has traditionally been limited to the highway trust fund, and
that’s a level of expenditure that’s not wise,” Representative
Jeff Flake, an  Arizona (BEESAZ)  Republican who opposes the bill, said in
an interview.  The plan would reauthorize the 18.4-cent federal  gasoline 
tax and set maximum spending levels for roads, bridges and mass
transit for five years. The current highway law, which expires
March 31, is the eighth temporary extension since a $244
billion, four-year plan ended in 2009.  “This is a much more difficult process than we’ve seen in
the past,” Boehner of  Ohio  told reporters yesterday. “There is
clearly angst on both sides of the aisle over a number of
issues.”  Earmarked Funds  One reason, the speaker said, is that the plan lacks
earmarked funds for lawmakers’ pet projects, which he has
previously said numbered more than 6,000 in the last highway
measure.  The Republican approach to the transportation bill is aimed
at appealing to a “new breed” of lawmaker with “little
understanding, little appreciation for bill history, who just
wants to wipe out what was,” said Jim Oberstar, a former
Minnesota representative who served as the top Democrat on the
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee for 16 years before
he was defeated in the 2010 election.  Oberstar noted that during his time on the panel, he and
the top Republican would -- with their staffs -- write highway
bills from scratch, regardless of which party was in the
majority.  Natural Republican constituencies, such as the investment
and contracting sectors, have been alienated by the Republican
bill, Oberstar said.  ‘Uncomfortable, Miserable’  “Why would you make life so uncomfortable, miserable and
uncertain on an issue like this just to make a political
point?” Oberstar said. “I don’t understand it.”  “In the past people were bought off with earmarks or some
special provisions,” Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman
 John Mica , a Florida Republican, told reporters this week. “We
don’t have that luxury. What we have to do is to discuss policy;
that takes longer.”  The plan would eliminate a program to fund bicycle trails
and other transportation-related improvements that anti-tax
Republicans view as wasteful. It would expand offshore drilling
to provide royalties for highway spending, and raise funds by
requiring federal workers to contribute more to their pensions.  It also would end the designated use of 2.86 cents of the
gasoline tax for mass transit and other projects to improve  air
quality  and reduce highway congestion. Instead, the measure
would provide $40 billion in general funds for those purposes.  Flake objects to funding such projects at all, saying the
bill’s scope should be limited to surface transportation
projects that can be funded through gasoline tax revenue.  Mass Transit Support  Conversely, at least 10 Republicans from urban and suburban
districts said they oppose the bill because it would end the
automatic funding for mass transit.  “As long as that’s in there I can’t vote for it,”
Representative  Peter King , a  New York  Republican, said in an
interview. “That’s the only program where New York gets more
money back” than it pays in gas taxes.  Factions of Republicans with objections, combined with
opposition from almost all 192  House Democrats , mean “the math
is more than tricky, but it can be fixed, and I’m committed the
helping the speaker try and fix it,” said Steve LaTourette, an
Ohio Republican.  House Republicans’ chief vote-counter, Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy  of  California , told members during a Feb. 1 closed-door
party meeting that the 218 votes needed for the highway bill
will have to come from within the party’s ranks, said two
lawmakers who were in the room and spoke on condition of
anonymity.  ‘Misplaced Priorities’  Boehner told reporters Feb. 9 that the House measure is the
first infrastructure highway bill he has ever supported. Prior
measures, he said, “represented everything that was wrong with
 Washington : earmarks, endless layers of bureaucracy, wasted tax
dollars and misplaced priorities.”  Even without earmarks, lawmakers can be swayed by parochial
concerns. Representative Cory Gardner, a  Colorado  Republican,
said in an interview that he was working to strip a provision
that would prohibit horses from being transported in double-
decker trailers. The provision has “farmers, ranchers in
Colorado -- a huge rodeo industry -- up in arms,” he said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration on Feb. 14 said it
would veto the House bill, saying it would reduce safety, weaken
environmental and labor protection and wouldn’t do enough to
improve roads and bridges. The Senate is working on its plan, S.
1813, which would authorize $109.8 billion in spending for
fiscal 2012 and 2013.  Three Bills  Republican leaders have split the House plan into three
bills, and lawmakers are offering more than 300 amendments. The
House passed the first measure last night and is set to consider
the other two parts after next week’s Presidents’ Day recess.  Allowing votes on amendments to expand states’
responsibility to fund roads, bridges and mass transit and to
limit spending on highways and mass transit will help
Republicans get the 218 votes they need, even though the
amendments probably won’t be adopted, said a Republican lawmaker
who is helping rally votes for the measure and spoke on
condition of anonymity. The lawmaker said leaders are counting
on some Republican critics to come on board after they go on the
record in favor of changes.  New Jersey Republican  Scott Garrett  proposed an amendment
to create pilot programs allowing states to receive federal
transportation funds through block grants. Oklahoma Republican
James Lankford is pushing to let states opt out of federal
highway programs, either by keeping the funds they contribute to
the Highway Trust Fund or by allowing them to increase state gas
taxes to cover the loss in revenue.  ‘Right Direction’  Although Lankford said the highway bill was a “step in the
right direction,” it wouldn’t go as far as he wanted to trim
the federal government’s role in funding transportation.  In previous years, the highway bill “has always been
something that’s attracted three-hundred-and-something votes,”
LaTourette said. This year, every Democrat on the Transportation
and Infrastructure Committee voted against the bill on Feb. 6.  A Democrat on the panel,  Pennsylvania ’s Jason Altmire, said
he opposed the plan because of provisions he viewed as anti-
labor and because it would eliminate automatic funding for mass
transit. He predicted it will take far beyond March 31 for the
House and Senate to work out a plan.  “The likely outcome, everyone would agree, is we will not
have a long-term highway bill by the end of the year,” Altmire
said. “I just don’t see, this year, given the politics, how
that’s possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  