-- Apple Partner Foxconn Has ‘Tons of Issues,’ Labor Group Says
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-02-18T04:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/foxconn-auditor-finds-tons-of-issues-.html
The Fair Labor Association, a
watchdog monitoring working conditions at makers of Apple Inc.
products, has uncovered “tons of issues” that need to be
addressed at a Foxconn Technology Group plant in Shenzhen,  China ,
FLA Chief Executive Officer Auret van Heerden said.  Van Heerden made the comments in a telephone interview
after a multiday inspection of the factory. Apple, the first
technology company to join the  FLA , said on Feb. 13 that it
asked the Washington-based nonprofit organization to inspect
plants owned by three of its largest manufacturing partners.  “We’re finding tons of issues,” van Heerden said en route
to a meeting where FLA inspectors were scheduled to present
preliminary findings to Foxconn management. “I believe we’re
going to see some very significant announcements in the near
future.”  He declined to elaborate on the findings. The FLA plans to
release more information about its inspection in the coming
weeks. By then, the company will have had a chance to contest or
agree to steps to prevent further violations.  “Foxconn is cooperating fully with this audit and we will
review and act on all findings and recommendations,” Foxconn
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “This is a very
professional and thorough review and any deficiencies the FLA
might find in the implementation of customer or Foxconn policies
will be addressed.”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, referred to the company’s Feb. 13 statement about the
audits.  Hard-to-Find Violations  Van Heerden said in an  interview with Reuters  published Feb.
15 that Foxconn’s plants were “first class.” He said he was
surprised “how tranquil it is compared with a garment
factory.”  Heather White, the founder of  Verite , another monitoring
group, said that many alleged violations -- say, forced overtime
or use of certain toxic chemicals -- can be hard to detect.  “Those are not things one would see on a hosted tour that
was planned in advance,” she said.  Van Heerden said the comments reflected his previous
interactions with Foxconn.  Apple had commissioned the FLA to carry out smaller
projects in the past two years, in order to try out some of the
inspection techniques used by the group to more effectively root
out workplace problems.  Responses to Hazards  Van Heerden said he had been impressed with Apple and
Foxconn’s responses to hazards related to the polishing of
aluminum, which led to explosions at Foxconn and another Apple
supplier,  Pegatron Corp. (4938) , that killed at least three workers and
injured more than 70 people last year. Van Heerden said that
Apple researched the problem and hired a respected consultant.  Apple shares were little changed at $502.12 yesterday. The
stock has risen 24 percent this year, extending Apple’s lead as
the world’s most valuable company.  In response to the consultant’s recommendations, Foxconn
bought state-of-the-art extraction and ventilation equipment to
prevent dust buildup, and developed an automated approach so
that no humans are involved in the polishing work.  “I’ve seen the improvements that have been made, and
they’re dramatic,” he said. “The room is full of robots. It’s
totally automated. But people need to see the proof.”  Random Interviews  Van Heerden said that FLA’s 30-person inspection team will
interview 35,000  Foxconn  employees, via meetings with small
groups of randomly picked workers, chosen to reflect the
demographics of the campus in terms of age, gender and skill
levels. As part of the process, workers log answers to questions
on tablets connected to FLA servers so they can be tabulated.  White, who is now a fellow at Harvard University’s  Edmond J.
Safra Center for Ethics , says group meetings on Foxconn’s
premises may not yield honest responses. She says she found it
more productive to talk to workers in their homes or other off-
site locations.  “It’s very hard to get people to speak openly about very
serious issues,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  