-- Foxconn Technology Group Raises Wages in China for Third Time Since 2010
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2012-02-17T16:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/foxconn-technology-group-raises-wages-in-china-for-third-time-since-2010.html
Foxconn Technology Group (FOXCGZ) , the
world’s biggest contract manufacturer of electronics including
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, raised the pay of its workers in  China  this
month, the third increase since 2010.  Pay rose by 16 percent to 25 percent starting Feb. 1, the
company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The basic
monthly pay of a junior worker in Shenzhen has risen to 1,800
yuan ($290) from 900 yuan three years ago, it said. Foxconn will
raise monthly salaries to more than 2,200 yuan for workers who
pass technical examinations, it said.  The announcement came after Apple said the Fair Labor
Association started its audit of Foxconn’s plants in China this
week. Apple became the first technology company to join the
Washington-based work-standards group last month, after
criticism by human-rights organizations over conditions at
suppliers including Foxconn.  The Fair Labor Association will interview thousands of
employees about working and living conditions, including health
and safety, compensation, hours and communication with
management, Cupertino, California-based Apple said this week.  The basic salary of junior workers in Foxconn’s China
factories is already far higher than the minimum wage set by all
local governments, Foxconn said in yesterday’s statement.  Foxconn more than doubled wages for some workers in China
and employed counselors two years ago after a spate of suicides
at the company. Last year, an explosion at its Chengdu plant
killed three workers.  Shares of Foxconn’s Taipei-listed flagship  Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. (2317) , fell 0.5 percent to NT$101.50 yesterday.
The shares have gained 22 percent this year, compared with a 12
percent gain in the benchmark Taiex index.  Hon Hai assembles iPads and iPhones, unit Foxconn
Technology Co. makes metal cases for those two devices as well
as Apple’s laptop computers, and affiliate Chimei Innolux Corp.
supplies displays for the iPad.  Foxconn employs about 1 million people in China, with four
locations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  