-- Frankfurt Airport Says Strike May Hamper Some Flights
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-02-17T16:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/frankfurt-air-traffic-disrupted-a-second-day-as-runway-staff-resume-strike.html
Frankfurt airport ,  Europe ’s third-
busiest, is facing a third day of disruptions as striking runway
controllers consider continuing their protest on Feb. 20.  Fraport AG (FRA) , which owns the German hub, canceled 298 of
today’s planned 1,300 flights, spokeswoman Stephanie Wagener
said. Controllers are halting work from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.,
according to the Gewerkschaft der Flugsicherung (GdF) union.  “A strike on Monday is a real possibility,” GdF
negotiator Dirk Vogelsang said, adding that there would be no
strike on the weekend. “If there’s no forward movement from the
Fraport side then the protests will continue next week.”  Frankfurt, which ranks after  London Heathrow  and Paris
Charles de Gaulle in yearly passenger numbers, is the main base
for  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline.  Lufthansa has canceled 125 of the 290 medium-haul and
domestic flights scheduled for today, a figure the company
doesn’t expect to change, spokeswoman Claudia Lange said, adding
that long-distance flights are not affected.  Travelers are being held hostage by the controllers’
demands, with the action likely to affect the whole of Europe,
Klaus-Peter Siegloch, president of the BDL airline and airport
trade association, said in a statement yesterday.  Lufthansa passengers can rebook on other flights, apply for
a refund or, for travel in  Germany , switch to Deutsche Bahn AG
trains, spokesman  Thomas Jachnow  said.  The GdF, which has reached deals with Munich and Berlin
airports, says it has accepted a recommendation from mediator
Ole von Beust for a two-step increase in monthly wages of
between 200 euros and 1,600 euros ($263 to $2,100).  More Walkouts  With Fraport planning to outsource the ground-control
function, the GdF also wants it to agree that workers will be
transferred to a single company on a single contract, Markus
Siebers, the union’s wages and rights representative, said.  The GdF aims to carry on striking “in stages” until it
reaches an acceptable settlement, Siebers said, adding “This is
just the warm-up. It’s going to get more intense.”  Fraport says further compromise is required from the union,
which represents about 90 percent of the 200 controllers.  During yesterday’s strike 172 flights were canceled, with
70 percent of flights after 3 p.m. still operating, Fraport said
in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konstantin Riffler in  Frankfurt  at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  