-- French Candidates Need to Keep Focus on Europe’s Crisis: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-17T00:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/french-presidential-candidates-need-to-keep-focus-on-europe-s-crisis-view.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
announcement this week that he would seek re-election was hardly
a political thunderclap. It is nonetheless significant: The
campaign, which could result in a transfer of power in  Europe ’s
second-largest economy, will inevitably introduce another
element of uncertainty into the continent’s struggles to resolve
the sovereign-debt crisis.  As the tumultuous negotiations over the fate of Greece
demonstrate, the debt meltdown continues to threaten the
survival of the single currency, and with it the stability of
the global economy. Riding out the storm -- and maintaining the
 united front  that Sarkozy has forged with German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  -- should be the priority for whomever occupies
the Elysee Palace this spring.  Yet  Francois Hollande , the Socialist front-runner in the
polls, has made clear that he plans to take a different approach
than Sarkozy to Europe and the Franco-German push for austerity.
He has said he will demand a review of last month’s European
Union agreement, designed by Merkel and Sarkozy, to tighten
rules on deficits and debt. This posturing, even if Hollande
doesn’t ultimately follow through on it, could feed a simmering
anger in populations across Europe over the painful steps needed
to restore growth and fiscal stability.  Tobin Tax  In addition, both Sarkozy and Hollande have played to the
crowd by suggesting that outside forces may be to blame for the
economic turmoil. Sarkozy plans to introduce a 0.1 percent levy
on equities and other financial products in August, even if
other European nations don’t follow suit. As we have said
before, this proposal, known as the  Tobin tax  after its creator,
the U.S. economist  James Tobin , is misguided. At worst, it would
have disastrous consequences by curbing growth and, at best, it
would distract from the heavy lifting that needs to be done.  For his part, Hollande went off course in his first major
 campaign speech  last month by designating “big finance” as his
“greatest adversary.”  Such populism is all the more unfortunate because both
candidates have otherwise correctly made deficit reduction the
centerpiece of their campaigns. The urgency of such measures was
emphasized last week by the national auditor, the Cour des
Comptes, which said the next president will have to step up
efforts to reduce budget and trade deficits or risk an
“uncontrollable” debt spiral. Adding to the pressure,  Standard
& Poor’s  stripped France of its AAA credit rating for the first
time on Jan. 13, and this week, Moody’s Investors Service said
it may downgrade France’s top Aaa rating.  The concern is justified:  Government spending  is the
world’s highest at about 56 percent of gross domestic product,
compared with 47 percent in  Germany , and Sarkozy has estimated
that last year outlays exceeded revenue by about 5.4 percent.  In any case, public debt of 1.69 trillion euros ($2.22
trillion), or 85 percent of GDP, offers little room for
expansionary policies. To meet the Sarkozy government’s target
of cutting the  total budget deficit  to 3 percent of GDP in 2013
and eliminating it by 2016,  France  must reduce the shortfall by
1.4 percentage points next year and 0.9 percentage point in each
of the following three years, according to the auditor. And
despite a forecast-beating report Feb. 15 that the economy grew
0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, the risk of recession
remains, with  jobless claims  jumping by 5.6 percent last year to
a 12-year high of 2.87 million.  Deficit Targets  Hollande, too,  vows  to narrow the deficit to 3 percent of
GDP in 2013, from about 7 percent now, and promises a balanced
budget by 2017. In addition, he has proposed increased spending
on education and social programs, which he would pay for by
raising tax rates on investment revenue and high incomes.
Sarkozy’s plan relies on a blend of tax increases and reductions
in labor costs to boost competitiveness.  In the remaining nine weeks of the campaign, both
candidates will undoubtedly feel compelled to tell voters more
of what they believe they want to hear. For Hollande, that could
mean tacking to the left with further criticism of the Franco-
German firewall, and rejecting the need for budget cuts or an
overhaul of France’s generous welfare state. (He has already
promised to review Sarkozy’s decision to raise the  retirement
age  from 60 to 62, still one of the world’s lowest.) Sarkozy,
who will probably face a challenge from the far-right National
Front candidate Marine Le Pen, will be strongly tempted to co-
opt her supporters by adopting some of her anti-immigrant, anti-
globalization message.  None of the above would help France address the weaknesses
in its economy, most urgently the need to narrow a trade deficit
that reached a record 69.6 billion euros last year, equivalent
to about 3.5 percent of GDP. That will only be achieved by
increasing competitiveness and reducing the debt load, which in
France, as elsewhere, has become a dangerous drag on growth.  The two mainstream candidates should stay focused on making
this case for bitter medicine to the French people. The turmoil
now gripping  Greece  provides a vivid illustration of the dangers
of complacency.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 