-- Frontline Loses $343.7 Million as Tanker Owner Splits Fleet
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-02-17T17:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/frontline-loses-343-7-million-as-tanker-owner-splits-fleet-2-.html
Frontline Ltd (FRO) ., the owner of 40 oil
tankers led by billionaire  John Fredriksen , said fourth-quarter
losses widened as the company split to withstand the worst rout
in rates for 12 years.  The net loss for the final three months of 2011 was $343.7
million compared with $11.9 million a year earlier, the
Hamilton, Bermuda-based company said in a statement today. That
included $312.9 million from the sale of ships as part of the
restructuring. Shares slid 2.1 percent to close at 27.7 kroner
in Oslo trading, cutting the company’s market value to 2.16
billion kroner ($378.4 million).  Frontline said in November it risked running out of cash
and sold its most modern vessels and outstanding orders at
shipyards to a new company called  Frontline 2012 . The largest
 oil tankers  earned $22,137 a day last year, 77 percent less than
their peak in 2004 and the lowest annual average since 1999,
according to data from Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit
of the world’s largest shipbroker. The company may return to
profit this year, Jens Martin Jensen, chief executive officer of
Frontline’s management unit, said in an interview.  “The successful completion of Frontline’s restructuring
has positioned it to weather persisting weakness in the crude
tanker market,”  Omar Nokta , a New York-based analyst at
investment bank Dahlman Rose & Co., said in an e-mailed report
today. “We continue to view Frontline as if it were a ‘closed-
end fund.’”  More VLCCs  The total capacity of the largest oil tankers, known in the
industry as very large crude carriers, will expand 6.4 percent
this year, Clarkson estimates. Global oil demand will grow 0.9
percent, according to the  International Energy Agency . The
number of  VLCCs (VESLVLIS)  swelled 13 percent to 563 since the end of 2007,
when daily earnings reached $229,000, according to data from
Clarkson and Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay.  Frontline has as many as three more ships that could be
sold in the next six months, Jensen said on a conference call.
The price of 10-year-old VLCCs are bottoming, he said.  The restructuring included the sale of five VLCCs on order,
six modern supertankers and four Suezmax tankers to Frontline
2012 for $1.23 billion.  Frontline’s biggest ships need $23,900 a day to break even.
That’s more than the $12,094 anticipated by freight derivatives
next quarter on the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage, data
from London-based broker Marex Spectron Group show. Earnings
this quarter are about $16,000 a day, Frontline said.  ‘Positive Territory’  “It doesn’t take much more market development to happen
before we could be moving into positive territory again,”
Jensen said. “It could be before the end of the year.”  In a sign that the drop in vessel prices may be near an
end, Fredriksen ordered six oil-product tankers from STX
Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. for 235.5 billion won ($209
million), the Changwon, South Korea-based company said Feb. 14.  “Mr. Fredriksen can see we are entering into a phase where
there’s more and more good opportunities coming,” Jensen said.
“The worst thing that could happen is that we have been through
two very hard years and if there’s a recovery in maybe 12 or 24
months time it would be quite sad if you haven’t done anything
before the recovery comes.”  New tankers are the cheapest in as many as 15 years and
save money by using less fuel than older ships, industry
newspaper TradeWinds and  London ’s Financial Times cited
Fredriksen as saying in the past two weeks. The billionaire
plans to make a “substantial” order later this year for VLCCs,
according to the FT.  The new tankers will probably go to Frontline 2012 or
Fredriksen could also own them through his own company,
according to Jensen.  “We have just come out of a restructuring and are trying
to find our feet,” Jensen said on the call today. “There are
no immediate plans for further acquisitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  