-- Galaxy Owner AEG Close to Buying Tottenham, Express Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-02-17T10:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/galaxy-owner-aeg-close-to-buying-tottenham-express-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the Web.  Spurs Interest  Los Angeles Galaxy owner Anschutz Entertainment Group is
moving toward a 450 million pounds ($713 million) takeover of
Tottenham, the  Daily Express  reported.  AEG owner  Philip Anschutz  has held talks with Joe Lewis,
the Bahamas-based billionaire investor who controls Tottenham,
according to the newspaper.  Anschutz would keep current chairman  Daniel Levy  in place
at White Hart Lane after the sale, the newspaper said.  End-of-Season Sale  Arsenal Manager Arsene Wenger is planning a post-season
clearout after his team was routed 4-0 at AC Milan in the
 Champions League  this week, the  Telegraph  reported.  Wenger called a meeting with the players at the team’s
training ground yesterday and went “crazy,” the newspaper
said, citing an unnamed source.  Regulars including Theo Walcott, Tomas Rosicky and Andrei
Arshavin may be traded if they’re play doesn’t improve, the
Telegraph said. Arsenal will also look to offload Marouane
Chamakh and Sebastien Squillaci, while  Nicklas Bendtner ,  Carlos Vela , Denilson and Manuel Almunia are expected to be sold, the
newspaper added.  Suarez Offer  Liverpool is not interested in selling striker Luis Suarez
to Paris St. Germain, the  Mirror  reported.  Liverpool is weighing whether to keep the striker beyond
this season and won’t enter into talks with the Qatar-owned club
or other teams until a decision has been reached, the newspaper
said.  United Defender  Manchester United  wants to bring in Valencia’s French
defender Adil Rami, the  Sun  said.  The Red Devils face competition from Barcelona to complete
a 20-milion-pound deal, the Sun said.  Tevez Shunned  Manchester City manager Roberto Mancini has threatened to
freeze out striker  Carlos Tevez  after the striker accused the
Italian of treating him “like a dog,” the  Sun  reported.  Mancini told reporters he disagreed with Tevez’s opinion
and doesn’t want to talk about the issue anymore, the Sun said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  