-- Gazprom Chases China as Europe Demand Falters: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-02-17T00:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/gazprom-chases-china-india-as-european-demand-falters-russia-overnight.html
OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the world’s largest
natural gas producer, will strive to forge supply deals with
 India  and  China  this year as it seeks to win customers outside
of  Europe , where demand is waning.  Gazprom will sign a contract in 2012 to supply liquefied
natural gas to India,  Alexander Medvedev , the company’s deputy
chairman, said in an interview in  New York  yesterday. Moscow-
based Gazprom also “optimistically expects” to cut a deal with
China this year, though pricing is still an issue, he said.  “The ball is on their side, a growing Chinese economy will
need Russian gas,” Medvedev, 56, said. “I hope that our
arguments will prevail in the talks.”  Futures (VEA)  expiring in March on Moscow’s dollar-denominated
 RTS index (RTSI$)  gained 1.2 percent to 165,885 in U.S. trading
yesterday, as Brent, the oil type pricing for Russia’s Urals
Crude is derived from, jumped to an eight-month high. Gazprom’s
American depositary receipts added 0.7 percent to $12.74 in New
York, after  shares  fell 0.8 percent on Moscow’s  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index to
190.08 rubles, or $6.31. One depositary receipt is equal to two
ordinary shares.  Gazprom supplies about 25 percent of gas in Europe, where
utilities companies are protesting prices and at least two
winter supply disruptions since 2006 have spurred countries to
seek out alternative sources of energy. A boom in U.S. shale gas
production is driving additional supply through the Atlantic to
Europe, and Gazprom’s exports to  Germany , the largest economy in
the European Union,  Norway  and Holland all fell last year.  Russia ETF Climbs  The  Bloomberg Russia-US 14 Index  of Russian companies
traded in New York rose for the third time in four days, adding
0.8 percent to 109.11 yesterday, while the  Market Vectors Russia
ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that holds Russian shares, gained 1
percent to $31.86. The  RTS Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures
expected swings in the index futures, fell for a second day,
dropping 2.6 percent to 31.19 points.  The LNG contract with India is in the final stages of
preparation and the price of gas supplied will be indexed to
oil, Medvedev said yesterday.  Gazprom has been courting China for more than 10 years as
the world’s second-biggest economy has preferred lower gas
prices from the former Soviet republic of  Turkmenistan . The
company accounts for as much as 20 percent of global gas
production.  Russian gas prices are “near parity” with those for
Europe so Gazprom doesn’t intend to “subsidize” Chinese
customers, Medvedev said. Gazprom expects to supply China with
its first gas four years after a contract is signed, he said.  Jobless Drop  Brent gained as U.S. government data showed that Americans
filed the fewest claims for jobless benefits since 2008, beating
the most optimistic economist’s  estimates . U.S. housing starts
also rose, supporting the case for a recovery in the nation’s
economy. Oil and natural gas constituted almost 50 percent of
Russian government revenue last year while Urals crude is the
nation’s biggest export earner.  OAO Lukoil (LUKOY) , Russia’s largest independent oil producer,
advanced to the highest price in U.S. trading since Aug. 3 as
oil futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  rose to a six-
week high, gaining 0.5 percent to settle at $102.31 a barrel.
Lukoil ADRs added 1.7 percent to $62.85, while its  shares  were
little changed on the Micex at 1,878.60 rubles, or $62.55. One
ADR is equivalent to one ordinary share.  Brent crude for April settlement increased 1 percent to
$120.11 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Urals
gained 0.5 percent to $119.48.  Bullish Russian Energy  “There’s a three-letter word that always drives Russia,
and that’s oil,” Tom Furda, director of Russian equity sales at
Auerbach Grayson & Co.’s Moscow-based brokerage partner UralSib
Financial Corp., said by phone yesterday. “The  U.S. economy 
drives oil to a large extent, and anything calming about Europe
is also supportive of the Russian case.”  Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co., a Boston-based
investment manager, is “most overweight” and bullish on
Russian energy assets because of their valuations, Peter Chiappinelli, a portfolio strategist for asset allocation at the
firm, said at the Bloomberg Link Portfolio manager Mash-up
Conference in New York yesterday.  Gazprom is “optimistic” that it will settle its pricing
disputes with European companies outside of arbitration,
according to Medvedev.  Germany’s largest utilities EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  are embroiled
in a dispute with the company over prices and volumes after
losing money buying fuel at above-market rates. Gazprom said on
Jan. 17 that it revised the price formula for clients including
Germany’s Wingas,  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA of France and Sinergie Italiane
Srl.  European ‘Compromise’  “I do hope that within the course of a couple of months we
will reach a compromise,” Medvedev said. Customers currently in
disputes with Gazprom over prices “will accept approximately
the same terms” that the company reached with other European
clients, he said.  Imports of Russian gas into Germany in the first 10 months
of 2011 fell 3.7 percent compared with the same period a year
earlier, according to data from the nation’s Economy Ministry.
Imports from Norway dropped 3 percent while Dutch imports
declined 0.2 percent. Most of Gazprom’s gas supplies to Europe
go via neighboring Ukraine, and disputes with the country have
led to supply disruptions.  Mechel Gains  European governments may cut  interest rates  on emergency
loans for Greece and use contributions from the  European Central
Bank  to bolster a second bailout package, two people familiar
with the discussions said yesterday, declining to be named
because the talks are still in progress. Euro finance chiefs
meet on Feb. 20 to decide whether to dispense the the 130
billion-euro ($170 billion) bailout and approve a bond exchange
with private investors.  The prospect of a resolution to the European debt crisis
boosted ADRs of  OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s largest coal producer for
steelmakers.  Mechel, whose $9 billion of net debt at the end of
September was the highest among Russia’s steel and coal
producers, gained 3 percent in New York to $10.79, pushing the
 premium  over its Moscow shares to 2.1 percent, the most in 10
days.  The company’s  shares  in Moscow fell 4.2 percent to 318
rubles, or the equivalent of $10.58. One ADR represents one
ordinary share.  Medvedev declined to comment on whether Gazprom will bid
for any of $5 billion of assets that  BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s
third-largest natural-gas producer, plans to sell in the next
two years.  Gazprom is looking into some assets with “lots of
capacity” in  Mozambique , Medvedev said in the interview. The
company’s interest is “subject to political stability” in
Mozambique, and Gazprom is also looking at an “asset swap”
with a firm already working in the African nation, he said.  The  RTS Index (RTSI$)  declined 1.2 percent yesterday in Moscow to
1,641.51, while the 30-stock Micex lost 0.6 percent to 1,570.36,
retreating from a six-month high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  