-- Gazprom Sees U.S. Exporting LNG in Decade, Downplays Competition
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-02-17T12:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/gazprom-sees-u-s-exporting-lng-in-decade-downplays-competition.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the biggest natural-gas
producer, said it expects U.S. exports of the fuel in a decade,
downplaying the prospect of increased competition.  The U.S. has overtaken  Russia  as the largest gas producer,
using hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, and horizontal drilling
to pump fuel from shale beds. Rising production has driven down
prices, cut shipments to the U.S. and prompted owners of import
terminals to study switching to liquefied natural gas exports.  “I don’t anticipate that the LNG exports from the U.S.
could reach big volumes,” Gazprom Deputy Chief Executive
officer  Alexander Medvedev  said in an interview. “In order to
be competitive and to cover the cost, it should go not to  Europe 
probably but to  Asia , where the market demand is so high.”  Gazprom, which depends on piping gas to Europe for most of
its sales, plans to grow in Asia and boost its share of the LNG
trade by buying cargoes, building plants and seeking projects
abroad. LNG is gas turned into a liquid and shipped by tanker.  The U.S. plans to be a net exporter of LNG from 2016, with
initial sales of 1.1 billion cubic feet a day doubling after
three years, the Energy Information Administration said Jan. 23.  While former Exxon Mobil Corp. chief Lee Raymond this month
said politics and concern that production at shale fields isn’t
sustainable may hinder development of LNG export plants, some
gas companies are confident the U.S. will be a major exporter.  BG Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas company,
said in February the U.S. will be able to supply about 9 percent
of global LNG output by the end of the decade and have capacity
to export about 45 million metric tons a year from 2020.  Later Start?  U.S. LNG exports may start “later, maybe in the next 10
years” as approvals and construction take time, Medvedev said
yesterday in  New York . Volumes may be 10 billion cubic meters
(353 billion cubic feet) to 20 billion cubic meters a year, he
said.  Cheniere Energy Partners LP (CQP)  received permission from the
U.S. Energy Department in May to sell LNG overseas.  “In the end it is good for the global gas industry because
now the U.S. feels more secure, comfortable, and the role of gas
is growing in the economy, including innovative sectors like
bunkering for the fleet or transportation fuel,” Medvedev said.  Gazprom exports LNG from its share of the Sakhalin-2 plant
off Russia’s Pacific coast and buys the fuel from other sources.
Its total traded LNG rose 25 percent to 3 billion cubic meters
in 2011, a presentation to investors last week showed. That’s a
fraction of Asian demand, less than the demand in 2010 for  Hong
Kong  alone,  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy shows.  While demand is increasing in  China ,  India , Pakistan and
Bangladesh, “not too much capacity” will become available in
three to five years, Medvedev said. Gazprom expects Asian LNG
prices to stay linked to oil or the so-called Japanese Crude
Cocktail, a benchmark index used to price long-term contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  