-- Geithner Should Be Ordered to Testify in JPMorgan Suit, Lehman Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-17T20:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/geithner-should-be-ordered-to-testify-in-jpmorgan-suit-lehman-says.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  should to be ordered to give a deposition in  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s lawsuit against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
which alleged the bank siphoned $8.6 billion out of Lehman in
the 2008 credit crisis, helping to cause its collapse, the
defunct firm and its creditors said.  Lehman has a March 16 deadline for completing its fact
finding in the case, after interviewing more than 200 witnesses,
creditors said in a filing in U.S. District Court in  Washington .
Lehman is asking a federal judge to order Geithner to be
interviewed by lawyers for the firm and its creditors. The
Treasury Department “has for many months delayed and ultimately
refused to allow the testimony of Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner ,” which is key to the case, they said.  The filing, e-mailed to Bloomberg, was confirmed by a
Lehman official who declined to be named. The filing was made in
person, the official said. It couldn’t be immediately confirmed
in court records.  Geithner, at the time president of the  Federal Reserve  Bank
of New York, discussed the collateral JPMorgan was demanding for
its loans with Richard Fuld and James Dimon, Lehman’s and
JPMorgan’s chief executive officers, in the week before Lehman’s
bankruptcy, according to the filing. He also met with Dimon and
 Henry Paulson , then Treasury Secretary, to discuss “concerns”
that Dimon was using the crisis to strengthen his bank at
Lehman’s expense, they said.  Treasury Refusal  The Treasury also has refused to let Paulson testify,
creditors said. They would address the refusal separately, they
said. Lehman’s official committee of creditors works closely
with the defunct firm on its plans and lawsuits, it has said.  “Secretary Geithner has given public testimony about the
failure of  Lehman Brothers  on multiple occasions before Congress
and other government bodies,” said Anthony Coley, a Treasury
Department spokesman, in an e-mail. “In this particular matter,
Treasury and the Federal Reserve have cooperated extensively
with the plaintiffs. Treasury and the Fed have provided
thousands of pages of documents and arranged for depositions of
numerous other witnesses. We have also offered to provide a
written declaration from the Secretary in order to provide any
additional information that the parties are seeking. Given all
the available information, it is unclear why plaintiffs continue
to insist on unnecessary depositions of current and former
Treasury secretaries.”  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on Lehman
creditors’ account of Dimon’s conversations with officials.  Dispute Settled  Lehman and JPMorgan this week got a judge’s approval to
settle a $699 million dispute, with the bank returning that
amount of the $8.6 billion to Lehman. In addition to the
lawsuit, they are fighting over $6.3 billion in claims that the
bank filed against the defunct firm.  The biggest U.S. bank, which lent $70 billion to Lehman’s
brokerage around the time of the 2008 bankruptcy, sued Lehman
back after the $8.6 billion suit, alleging Lehman defrauded its
lender into making the loan. It has asked a judge to dismiss
Lehman’s suit.  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
2008, listing $613 billion in debt.  The main case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). The lawsuit is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  