-- German President Wulff Quits Amid Corruption Allegations in Blow to Merkel
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-02-17T14:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/german-president-wulff-quits-amid-corruption-allegations-in-blow-to-merkel.html
German President  Christian Wulff 
resigned amid the threat of a legal probe into corruption
allegations, delivering a blow to Chancellor  Angela Merkel  that
risks distracting her from the euro-region debt crisis.  Wulff is the second German president to quit in less than
two years, forcing Merkel to find a fresh candidate with cross-
party support for the largely ceremonial post. Merkel canceled a
planned trip to  Rome  today as Wulff’s intentions became clear,
and instead held a conference call on the crisis with Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and  Lucas Papademos  of Greece.  Wulff, 52, a former deputy leader of Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union party, was picked by the chancellor to replace
the previous incumbent,  Horst Koehler , after Koehler’s surprise
resignation in May 2010. Wulff was elected by a special national
assembly on June 30 of that year.  His decision to quit “is a huge setback for Merkel,”  Gerd Langguth , a Merkel biographer and political scientist at the
University of Bonn, said in a phone interview. “No one could
have imagined the extent of this. No one could have imagined
that this would take on such dimensions.”  Merkel said that she will consult in the coming days with
opposition political leaders to try and indentify a successor
candidate to put to the assembly, which will meet within 30
days. She is due to discuss the presidential succession with her
fellow coalition party leaders in Berlin tomorrow. Potential
candidates mentioned in the German media include Labor Minister
Ursula von der Leyen and Bundestag President Norbert Lammert.  ‘Rule of Law’  Merkel said that she “deeply regrets” Wulff’s
resignation, though respected the decision. The development
shows “the strength of our rule of law that treats everybody
equally, irrespective of position,” she told reporters.  The resignation is a diversion for Merkel as she seeks to
steer Europe’s response to the debt crisis that  China  has said
threatens to trigger systemic risks to the global economy. With
a second Greek bailout hanging in the balance, Merkel, Monti and
Papademos expressed optimism after their call that an agreement
on  Greece  can be reached at a Feb. 20 meeting of euro-area
finance ministers, Monti’s office said in an e-mailed statement.  The German president’s resignation is unlikely to affect
the role of Europe’s biggest economy in the crisis, and might
even result in “a small positive,”  Christian Schulz  of
Berenberg Bank in  London  said in a note.  ‘Additional Tools’  “The drive for a candidate supported by all major parties
shows the current unity in German politics on major political
questions,” Schulz said. “The centre-left opposition supports
Merkel’s European crisis management and is even more open to
additional tools including Eurobonds.”  Wulff’s role was largely confined to representing Germany
abroad until allegations relating to a private home loan during
his time as state prime minister of  Lower Saxony  were aired in
 Germany ’s best-selling Bild newspaper on Dec. 13, then followed
up in  Der Spiegel  magazine. Within days, he was facing growing
scrutiny of his financial affairs including vacations at the
homes of business people, and calls from the opposition to quit.  Prosecutors in Lower Saxony, which Wulff governed from 2003
to 2010, submitted a request to the lower house of parliament,
the Bundestag, to have the president’s immunity lifted. They
want to open an official probe after finding “initial evidence
to suppose” the acceptance of illicit favors, the prosecutor’s
office in the state capital of Hanover said in a statement on
its website today.  “Developments in past days and weeks have shown that this
confidence and my ability to act are lastingly damaged,” Wulff
told reporters at the presidential palace in Berlin today, as he
announced his resignation.  ‘Legally Correct’  “As far as the upcoming legal procedures are concerned,
I’m convinced that it will lead to a complete discharge. I’ve
always been legally correct in my offices,” he said. “I have
made mistakes but I have always been sincere.”  Pending the Federal Assembly convening, Bavarian Premier
 Horst Seehofer , who holds the rotating chair of the upper house
of parliament,  the Bundesrat , will serve as interim president.
Seehofer also leads Merkel’s Christian Social Union ally, one of
three coalition parties together with her CDU and the Free
Democratic Party, led by Economy Minister Philipp Roesler.  Merkel is now forced to devote her attention to lobbying
for support for a fresh candidate among the 1,240-member  Federal
Assembly  of lawmakers and state delegates that elects the
president, having lost ground after regional election defeats
throughout 2011 that she and other party officials blamed on the
crisis.  Diminished Majority  The chancellor may struggle to push through a favored
candidate compared with June 2010, when it unexpectedly took
three votes to elect Wulff. The chancellor’s majority in the
assembly has since narrowed to as little as two seats from 21
seats at the last vote, according to electoral website
 wahlrecht.de .  What’s more, the main opposition  Social Democrats  and
Greens have indicated that they want to revive the candidacy of
Joachim Gauck, a Protestant pastor and former East German
dissident whom Wulff defeated for the presidency at the third
ballot. Polls at the time showed Gauck to be the more popular
candidate among the general public.  “If she picks a recognized personality she will survive
this without damage,” Langguth said. “The question is what
possibilities she has to replace” Wulff.  Island Vacation  Prosecutors have been looking into whether they need to
question Wulff over payments by businessman David Gronewold in
connection with a vacation on the German island of Sylt in 2007.  Last month, an office in the president’s Berlin residence
was searched by prosecutors as part of a separate investigation
of his former spokesman, Olaf Glaeseker. The workplace was
raided because Glaeseker had left private material there that
the president’s office couldn’t hand over.  German financial regulator Bafin is meanwhile reviewing
whether Wulff violated capital market rules in the wake of
Porsche SE’s failed bid to take over  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Der Spiegel
reported today. Wulff may have learned in February 2008 that
Porsche was planning the bid and Bafin is reviewing whether he
may have had to disclose that fact to the markets, the magazine
reported, without saying where it got the information. As the
prime minister of Volkswagen’s home state of Lower Saxony, he
was a member of the carmaker’s supervisory board at the time.  Bafin spokeswoman Dominika Kula declined to comment, adding
that the regulator has a rule not to comment on any of its
investigative work. Wulff’s lawyer Gernot Lehr declined to
comment when contacted by telephone today.  The resignation calls into question Merkel’s judgment,
leaving her “somewhat diminished,” Sony Kapoor, managing
director at Re-Define, a firm that advises governments on
economic policy, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Maryam Nemazee.  Even so, Merkel is “still very much reigning as the queen
of  Europe  for now,” Kapoor said. “There is no ready challenger
to the German power play in the euro crisis today.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  