-- German President Faces Calls to Quit
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-02-17T09:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/german-president-faces-mounting-calls-to-quit-as-merkel-cancels-rome-trip.html
German opposition lawmakers stepped
up pressure on President  Christian Wulff  to resign after
prosecutors signaled their readiness to start a formal
investigation into allegations he accepted illicit favors.  Prosecutors in the German state of  Lower Saxony , which
Wulff governed from 2003 to 2010, have submitted a request to
the lower house of parliament to have the president’s immunity
lifted. They want to open an official probe after finding
“initial evidence to suppose” the acceptance of benefits, the
prosecutor’s office in the state capital of Hanover said in a
statement on its website today.  “Christian Wulff cannot carry on in office,” Andrea Nahles, general secretary of the main opposition  Social
Democratic Party , said in an interview with N-TV today. “It’s
no longer tenable,” she said. “There’s an honorable way to
resolve this situation and Christian Wulff has it in his own
hands to do so.”  Wulff will give a statement at 11 a.m. today in Berlin, his
office said in an e-mail.  Chancellor Angela Merkel , who picked
Wulff to replace  Horst Koehler  in May 2010, canceled a planned
trip to  Rome  for talks with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
and will make a statement at 11:30 a.m. Berlin time.  Allegations have buffeted Wulff, a former deputy leader of
Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party, for more than two
months now, threatening to distract the chancellor as she
battles the euro-area debt crisis.  Home Loan  Germany ’s best-selling Bild newspaper on Dec. 13 first
reported allegations relating to a private home loan during
Wulff’s time as state prime minister. Within days, he was facing
growing scrutiny of his financial affairs, including vacations
at the homes of business people.  Wulff’s lawyer Gernot Lehr declined to comment when
contacted by telephone today.  Prosecutors have been looking into whether they need to
question Wulff over payments by businessman David Gronewold in
connection with a vacation on the German island of Sylt in 2007.  German financial regulator Bafin is meanwhile reviewing
whether Wulff violated capital market rules in the wake of
Porsche SE’s failed bid to take over  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Der Spiegel 
reported today. Wulff may have learned in February 2008 that
Porsche was planning the bid and Bafin is reviewing whether he
may have had to disclose that fact to the markets, the magazine
reported, without saying where it got the information. As the
prime minister of Volkswagen’s home state of Lower Saxony, he
was a member of the carmaker’s supervisory board at the time.  Bafin’s press office didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  Office Raided  Last month, an office in the president’s Berlin residence
was searched by prosecutors as part of a separate investigation
of his former spokesman, Olaf Glaeseker. The workplace was
raided because Glaeseker had left private material there that
the president’s office couldn’t hand over.  Under German law, prosecutors must open a criminal
investigation if they have evidence supporting a suspicion that
criminal laws have been violated. If the suspect is a member of
parliament or the president, they cannot open the probe unless
parliament has lifted their immunity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  