-- Gilead Tumbles as Some Hepatitis C Patients Relapse After Drug Treatment
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-02-17T21:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/gilead-drops-as-hepatitis-c-drug-from-10-8-billion-buy-fails-to-sustain.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , which fueled a
land grab for hepatitis C therapies with its $10.8 billion
purchase last year of  Pharmasset Inc. (VRUS) , dropped the most in 11
years after some patients on the acquired experimental medicine
relapsed after stopping therapy.  Among eight patients with hepatitis C genotype 1, the most
common form of the disease in the U.S., six had a viral relapse
within four weeks after stopping a 12-week regimen with the
medicine, GS-7977, plus ribavirin, Gilead said today in a
statement. The other patients in the trial are two weeks out
from stopping treatment, and haven’t relapsed, the company said.  Gilead fell 14 percent to $47 at 4 p.m.  New York  time for
the biggest drop since January 2001. The decline narrowed the
 Foster City , California-based company’s gain for the last 12
months to 20 percent. Rival makers of hepatitis C drugs rose.  “Gilead announced what is unquestionably bad news,”  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in New York, wrote in a
note to clients today. The results could mean this kind of
therapy “isn’t going to be enough in genotype 1 patients.”  The promise of a potential $20 billion market in hepatitis
C, a bloodborne virus carried by 170 million people worldwide,
has spurred three acquisitions in the last year.  Bristol, Roche  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  followed Gilead with a $2.5
billion purchase of  Inhibitex Inc. (INHX)  to gain a similar medicine to
Pharmasset’s, while  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  bought experimental
hepatitis C drugmaker Anadys Pharmaceuticals in November for
about $230 million.  Pharmasset’s medicine was thought to be the cornerstone of
new regimens that treat hepatitis C orally, said Raghuram Selvaraju, an analyst with Morgan Joseph TriArtisan in New York,
in an interview.  Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN)  and  Idenix Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (IDIX) , other developers of medicines for the disease, are
probably acquisition targets, Selvaraju said. Achillion, based
in New Haven, Connecticut, rose 26 percent to $11.04 for the
biggest increase since December 2009; Idenix, in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, increased 3.9 percent to $11.91. Medivir AB, a
Swedish maker of an experimental hepatitis C medicine in
collaboration with Johnson & Johnson’s Tibotec unit, advanced 15
percent to 65.75 kronor, the most since July 2010.  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) , also in Cambridge, joined
 Merck & Co.  last year in gaining approval for the first new
hepatitis C drugs in almost a decade. Its shares jumped 4.7
percent to $39.24.  Vertex Response  “The Gilead news is positive for Vertex’s investor
sentiment,”  Jason Kantor , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets ,
wrote in a research note today. “While we think other upcoming
data from Gilead will likely be more positive and 7977 is still
the best HCV drug to date,” the negative data “may likely call
into doubt the thesis that Incivek will essentially go to zero
in 2014.”  A developing medical theory that hepatitis C can be
overcome with the same type of drug cocktails that tamed HIV has
driven acquisition strategies as companies try to anticipate
which products work best with other medicines.  Because only a few hepatitis C drugs are approved, and
others in testing may not pan out, “we don’t know what the
winning formula will be,” Ben Weintraub, an industry analyst at
Wolters Kluwer InThought in New York, said during a Bloomberg
Industries panel last week. To raise the odds, “companies are
doing M&A and starting new trials on almost a daily basis.”  While the results announced today by Gilead
“disappointed,” a “disaster scenario is unlikely,” said
Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst with Deutsche Bank in New York, in
a note to clients.  Future Trials  The data were from a study in patients who hadn’t responded
to an earlier treatment involving interferon. Gilead will
consider combining other direct-acting antivirals with 7977 and
longer treatment times, company executives said on a  conference
call  today with analysts and investors.  “These data answer an important question about the use of
GS-7977 and ribavirin for the treatment of genotype 1 null
responder patients, suggesting that additional direct acting
antivirals may be necessary to effectively treat this patient
population,” Norbert Bischofberger, Gilead’s chief scientific
officer, said in a statement.  “We will continue to explore a number of therapeutic
approaches to address this significant unmet medical need,
including combinations with other oral antivirals,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  