-- Global CO2 Aviation Plan Could Replace EU Curbs, Hedegaard Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-02-17T12:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/global-carbon-aviation-plan-could-replace-eu-curbs-hedegaard-says.html
The European Union can replace its
carbon curbs on aviation with a global measure to cut pollution
from the industry as long as the broader program is as ambitious
as the EU plan, the bloc’s climate chief said.  The 27-nation EU won’t abandon the expansion of its
emissions trading system into international aviation in the face
of opposition from nations outside the region, Climate
Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said in an interview today. The
first expansion of the EU emissions cap-and-trade program abroad
has drawn fire from countries including the U.S.,  Russia  and
 Japan , which said the measure was inconsistent with
international law.  “It’s clear that the moment we have a global regime
entering into force, something that we all agree to, then the EU
legislation will not be relevant,” Hedegaard said by telephone
from Copenhagen. “That can be different models for sure, but
the bottom line from our perspective must be that it is
something that is at least as good for climate and environment
as what we have in  Europe  right now.”  Her comments come as countries challenging the system plan
to meet in Moscow on Feb. 21-22 to coordinate action and discuss
a “basket of countermeasures” against the EU emissions trading
system, often referred to as the ETS, according to an agenda of
the gathering obtained by Bloomberg News.  Their talks will follow a  non-binding resolution  adopted by
the  United Nations ’  International Civil Aviation Organization 
last year at the urging of 26 nations, including  India ,  China ,
Japan and Russia, calling for the exemption of non-EU airlines
from the ETS.  Global Deal  “So far it very much seems this group of countries can
agree on one thing: what should not be done,” Hedegaard said.
“But it would be much more interesting to see what new move
they are willing to take that would make it likely this time to
get a global deal through ICAO.”  The UN aviation body intends to strike a deal this year
creating a global carbon market for the industry,  Raymond
Benjamin , ICAO’s secretary general, said in November.  The EU, which aims to lead the global fight against  climate
change , won’t insist on any particular instrument and would
welcome “some kind of a market-based system that really reduces
emissions and creates the right incentives for the whole sector
to become more efficient,” according to Hedegaard.  “We don’t have a one-way recipe to say this is how it must
be done,” she said, adding that the bloc hopes to see ICAO
taking action. “Those who believe that as long as we just talk
about a global regime then the EU law could disappear -- that’s
not going to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  