-- Goldman Said to Delay Samurai Bond on Downgrade Review
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2012-02-17T04:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/goldman-said-to-postpone-five-year-samurai-bond-sale-to-feb-21.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  delayed its
first  sale  of Samurai bonds in four years after Moody’s
Investors Service placed the bank under review for downgrade,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  Goldman Sachs pushed back the offering, which may have been
as early as today, to at least Feb. 21, the person said, asking
not to be identified because the information is private. The
brokerage told investors it plans to raise the size of the sale
to at least 60 billion yen ($759 million), from 50 billion yen,
and will widen the proposed yield premium, the person said.  The five-year sale would make it the busiest start to the
year on record for the market for yen-denominated notes issued
by overseas borrowers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
A taxation rule change next month may make it more difficult for
U.S. borrowers to sell Samurai bonds. Moody’s said Goldman
Sach’s rating may be cut by two grades, which would lower it to
A3, the seventh-highest level.  “Japanese investors have strong faith in Goldman Sachs, so
they will buy the bonds,” Hiroaki Fujioka, a senior credit
analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co., said in a
telephone interview from  Tokyo . “But they may be downgraded to
the bottom of the ’A’ range, which means after that investors
need to consider the risk of a reduction to triple B. That’s why
they increased the spread.”  Hiroko Matsumoto, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in Tokyo,
declined to comment on the Samurai bond sale.  The offering is being managed by Goldman Sachs’ Japanese
unit, according to a Feb. 15 filing with the  finance ministry .  Yield Premium  The firm is marketing the notes to yield between 195 basis
points and 210 basis points more than the yen swap rate, having
previously targeted a range of 170 basis points to 195 basis
points, the person said.  The Samurai sale also includes floating-rate notes, of the
same maturity, yielding between 210 basis points and 225 basis
points more than the three-month London interbank offered rate
for yen, according to the person.  “Capital markets firms are confronting evolving
challenges, such as more fragile funding conditions, wider
credit spreads, increased regulatory burdens and more difficult
operating conditions,” Moody’s said in a statement. Goldman
Sachs is among 17 banks and securities firms that Moody’s placed
under review for downgrade.  Goldman Sachs last sold Samurai bonds in January 2008,
raising 148.5 billion yen, including 18.3 billion yen of five-
year, 2.11 percent bonds priced to yield 110 basis points more
than the yen swap rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Busiest Market  A 60 billion-yen sale by Goldman Sachs would bring issuance
this year to 497 billion yen, the most since at least 2001,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nederlandse Financierings-Maatschappij voor
Ontwikkelingslanden NV, the Dutch development finance company
known as FMO, also plans to offer 20 billion yen of five-year
notes as early as Feb. 22, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said today.  FMO, which has a top AAA rating from  Standard & Poor’s ,
told investors it will price the bonds to yield between 35 basis
points and 37 basis points more than the yen swap rate, said the
person, asking not to be identified as the information is
private. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. and Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. are helping FMO sell the bonds, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  