-- Gold Fields Profit Jumps 26% on Metal Prices, Beating Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-02-17T15:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/gold-fields-posts-higher-fourth-quarter-eps-beating-analysts-estimates.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the fourth-largest
producer of the metal, more than doubled its dividend for last
year after benefiting from higher sale prices in rand.  The 3.30 rand (43 U.S. cents) a share  payout  is “the
highest dividend yield in the gold industry globally,” Chief
Executive Officer Nick Holland told Bloomberg Television today.
Gold Fields will keep its policy of paying out half of earnings
after growth capital is deducted, Chief Financial Officer Paul Schmidt said in a separate Johannesburg presentation.  The shares closed little changed at 125.98 rand in
Johannesburg, valuing it at 91.3 billion rand.  “Dividend policy has been well-accepted by the market,”
said David Davis, an SBG Securities analyst. “I’ll be paying
attention to their growth pipeline and how it’s funded.”  Gold Fields, which mined about half its 3.49 million ounces
of 2011 output in  South Africa , targets 5 million ounces a year
in production or development by 2015. It’s growing in  Peru  and
 Australia  and plans mines in  Mali ,  Finland  and the Philippines.  The company reported fourth-quarter earnings excluding one-
time items rose to 2.65 billion rand, or 3.68 rand a share, from
2.11 billion rand, or 2.91 rand, in the previous three months,
according to a statement today. The median of five analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was 3.62 rand a share.  Damang Project  Gold Fields expects to complete a pre-feasibility study for
 Ghana ’s Damang Super-pit project, due to add as much as 500,000
ounces a year, in the second half of 2012, Holland said. It’s
“cautiously optimistic” the government and miners will reach a
“win-win situation” on taxes to sustain the industry, he said.  The company will exercise an option this year to buy 60
percent of the Far Southeast project, an undeveloped gold and
copper deposit in the  Philippines , for $220 million, it said.  South African gold producers benefited from a 12 percent
jump in the average local price of the metal in the fourth
quarter from the previous three months as the rand fell against
the dollar. Producers gain from a weaker rand because they sell
much of their output in dollars and pay most costs in rand.  Analysts who track South African gold producers measure
quarter-on-quarter earnings excluding one-time items.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  