-- Google Dodged IPhone Users’ Privacy With DoubleClick, Stanford Study Finds
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-17T22:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/google-dodged-iphone-users-privacy-with-doubleclick-stanford-study-finds.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  violated users’ privacy
on Apple Inc.’s Safari Web browser, Stanford University research
found, adding to a drumbeat of criticism from consumer groups
and lawmakers over how the search giant tracks people online.  Using its DoubleClick ad network, Google has been dodging a
privacy setting in Safari, the primary Web browser on the
iPhone, iPad and Apple computers, according to a report today by
Stanford’s Security Lab and the Center for Internet and Society.
The  study  named three other companies -- Vibrant Media Inc.,
Media Innovation Group LLC and PointRoll Inc. -- that also
evaded privacy settings.  “Apple’s Safari Web browser is configured to block third-
party cookies by default,” Stanford graduate student Jonathan Mayer said in the report. “Google and Vibrant Media
intentionally circumvent Safari’s privacy feature.”  Google, the world’s biggest Internet-search company, has
drawn regulatory scrutiny and pressure from consumer advocates
for the way it handles personal information. Last year it agreed
to settle claims with the  Federal Trade Commission  that Google
used deceptive tactics and violated its own privacy policies
when it introduced its Buzz social-networking service in 2010.  In the Stanford study, Mayer said Google’s software
employed cookies, or small pieces of code, that can be used to
follow users’ activities on the Web. Blocking them is supposed
to prevent the cookies from tracking behavior. The actions
potentially affected millions of users, Mayer said. Safari is
the top browser for mobile devices, with 55 percent of the
market, according to January data from  Net Applications .  Apple’s Response  Apple is aware that “that some third parties are
circumventing Safari’s privacy features,” said  Bill Evans , a
spokesman for the Cupertino, California-based company. “We are
working to put a stop to it,” he said.  Google’s actions also prompted Consumer Watchdog to send a
letter to the FTC and demand action against Google.  “Safari users with the browser set to block third-party
cookies thought they were not being tracked,”  John Simpson ,
privacy project director of Consumer Watchdog, said in the
letter. “Nonetheless, because of an element invisible to the
user, but designed to mimic a form, DoubleClick was able to set
tracking cookies in an obvious violation of the set
preference.”  No Personal Information  Google has started removing the advertising cookies from
Safari browsers, Rachel Whetstone, senior vice president of
communications and public policy at the  Mountain View ,
California-based company, said in an e-mailed statement.  “It’s important to stress that, just as on other browsers,
these advertising cookies do not collect personal information,”
Whetstone said.  Google said it began to use the functions in the Safari
browser last year to enable its “+1” feature, which lets
surfers easily identify content that interests them. Google
created a temporary communication link between its servers and
Safari’s, so the company could know whether a user had signed up
for +1, she said.  “But we designed this so that the information passing
between the user’s Safari browser and Google’s servers was
anonymous -- effectively creating a barrier between their
personal information and the Web content they browse,” she
said. “However, the Safari browser contained functionality that
then enabled other Google advertising cookies to be set on the
browser. We didn’t anticipate that this would happen.”  Letter to FTC  The controversy drew fresh concerns from lawmakers.
Representatives  Edward Markey , a Democrat from  Massachusetts ;
 Joe Barton , a Republican from  Texas ; and  Cliff Stearns , a
Republican representing  Florida , sent  a letter  to the
FTC today asking whether Google violated its agreement with the
agency over privacy.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , chairman of the commerce
committee, said in a statement that Google “may have violated
the company’s own stated privacy policies.” Rockefeller, who
represents  West Virginia , said he intends to look into the
matter. Separately, a Safari Web browser user sued Google,
accusing the company of violating privacy.  The findings of the Stanford study were reported earlier by
the Wall Street Journal.  “Consumers are outraged at news reports today that Google
used a work-around hack to ‘trick’ the  Apple (AAPL)  Safari browser into
allowing the dominant Internet and advertising company to track
the Web browsing habits of millions of Apple users,” said Steve Pociask, president of the American Consumer Institute, an
organization in  Washington .  Google shares fell less than 1 percent to $604.64 today.
The shares have declined 6.4 percent this year.  Google began using data from its Google+ service in search
results of members this year and announced a new privacy policy
covering the majority of its products that will take effect on
March 1. The updated policy will let Google provide more
targeted advertisements, part of an effort to compete more
closely with Facebook Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ; and
 Brian Womack  in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  