-- Google Sued by Apple Safari User Who Says Privacy Intruded on Web Browser
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-02-17T23:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/google-sued-by-apple-safari-user-over-web-browser-privacy.html
Google Inc. officials were sued for
violating users’ privacy rights on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Safari Web
browser by bypassing computer settings designed to block
monitoring of consumers’ online activity.  Google, the world’s biggest Internet-search company, has
been dodging privacy settings in Safari, which serves as the
primary Web browser on Apple’s iPhone and iPad products, lawyers
for an Illinois man who uses the Safari browser said in a
lawsuit filed today in federal court in  Delaware .  “Google’s willful and knowing actions violated” federal
wiretapping laws and other computer-related statutes, attorneys
for Matthew Soble said in the complaint.  Google has drawn regulatory scrutiny and pressure from
consumer advocates for the way it handles personal information.
Last year, it agreed to settle claims with the  Federal Trade
Commission  that Google used deceptive tactics and violated its
own privacy policies when it introduced its Buzz social-
networking service in 2010.  Chris Gaither , a spokesman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, said in an e-mail that the company declined to
comment on the suit’s allegations.  Researchers at  Stanford University  said today Google
programmers developed codes that allowed them to avoid privacy
settings created by their rivals at Cupertino, California-based
Apple.  Privacy Circumvented?  The settings were designed to block cookies, or small
pieces of code, that can be used to follow users’ activities on
the Web. The Wall Street Journal reported Google’s actions in
bypassing the privacy settings earlier this week.  Soble is seeking class-action status for his suit, which
was filed on behalf of individuals “whose default privacy
settings on the web browser software produced by Apple, known as
Safari, were knowingly circumvented by Google,” according to
the suit.  Google’s actions also prompted Consumer Watchdog to send a
letter to the FTC today demanding action against the Internet-
search provider.  “Safari users with the browser set to block third-party
cookies thought they were not being tracked,”  John Simpson ,
privacy project director of Consumer Watchdog, said in the
letter. “Nonetheless, because of an element invisible to the
user, but designed to mimic a form, DoubleClick was able to set
tracking cookies in an obvious violation of the set
preference.”  Lawmaker Attention  The allegations that Google bypassed Apple’s privacy
settings to gather information on user’s Web browsing habits
also have drawn attention from lawmakers.  “I fully intend to look into this matter and determine the
extent to which the practice was used by Google and other third
parties to circumvent consumer choice,” West Virginia Senator
John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV, a Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Commerce Committee, said in a statement.  “We are taking immediate steps to address concerns, and we
are happy to answer any questions regulators and others may
have,” Google’s Gaither said in an e-mailed response.  The case is Matthew Soble v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , U.S. District
Court for the District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ; Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at
   jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  