-- Legal Challenge to Google Privacy Policy Is Baseless, U.S. Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/government-says-lawsuit-over-google-privacy-is-baseless-.html
A privacy group should lose its bid
for a court order forcing the Federal Trade Commission to
challenge  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s changes to its privacy policy, the U.S.
Justice Department said.  The Electronic Privacy Information Center has no basis in
the law to compel the FTC to take enforcement action against
Google, said Drake Cutini, a Justice Department lawyer, in a
filing yesterday in federal court in  Washington . The privacy
group sued Feb. 8, claiming Google’s planned changes to its
privacy policy violate a consent order requiring the search
engine company to protect consumer data.  The group said in its complaint that the FTC should sue
Google. The consent order stems from a lawsuit that the group,
known as EPIC, filed against Google.  “We are asking the court to dismiss the case because
parties such as EPIC are barred by law from interfering with the
proper investigation and enforcement of FTC orders,” Claudia Farrell, an FTC spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “There can be no question that the Federal Trade
Commission has a duty to enforce its final order in the Google
matter,”  Marc Rotenberg , EPIC’s executive director, said in an
e-mail.  YouTube, Android  Google, the world’s  most-popular search engine , announced
plans on Jan. 24 to unify privacy policies for 60 services and
products including YouTube videos and Android software for
mobile phones. The move, set to take effect March 1, would
simplify conditions for user agreements, the  Mountain View ,
California-based company said.  EPIC said the plan would allow Google to combine more
information about users, reduce users’ control of their own data
and give more personal information to advertisers.  The FTC’s 2011 settlement with Google over privacy, which
barred sharing user data outside the company without clear
permission, stemmed from a complaint filed by the advocacy group
in 2010.  Under the consent decree announced March 30, Google agreed
it used deceptive tactics and violated its own privacy policies
when it introduced its Buzz social-networking service in 2010.  The 20-year settlement bars Google from misrepresenting how
it handles information and obliges the company to follow
policies that protect consumer data in new products.  The case is Electronic Privacy Information Center v.
Federal Trade Commission, 12-00206, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  