-- Greek Bailout Deal Nearer After Germany Signals Backing at Feb. 20 Meeting
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2012-02-18T11:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/greek-bailout-deal-nearer-after-germany-signals-backing-at-feb-20-meeting.html
Euro-area governments closed in on a
deal to unlock a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) aid package for
 Greece , seeking to avert the region’s first sovereign default.  Germany , the biggest country contributor to euro-area
rescues, signaled that finance ministers may be ready to back
Greece’s second bailout in two years when they meet Feb. 20 in
Brussels. After a week of wrangling among euro-area officials,
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government indicated it aims to avoid
splitting the timetable of the aid and a writedown of Greek debt
to private bondholders and agree to the deal as one package.  Greece’s struggle to give assurances on debt-reduction
goals through the end of the decade have heightened uncertainty
as the clock ticks toward a March 20 bond redemption when Greece
must pay 14.5 billion euros or trigger the first sovereign
default in the euro’s 13-year history. The Brussels gathering on
Feb. 20 is due to start at 3:30 p.m. instead of the usual 5 p.m.  “The ongoing saga will likely go down to the wire and is,
yet again, another reminder of the fragile nature of the state
of affairs in  Europe  and the potential for a disorderly
default,” Michael Gapen, a New York-based economist at  Barclays
Capital , said in a note.  Greek Austerity  Germany has led pressure on Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  to enforce austerity in his country, stoking
recrimination between Europe’s southern countries and their
northern creditors. Greece’s economy, stuck in what is predicted
to be a fifth year of recession, shrank 7 percent from a year
earlier in the fourth quarter as unemployment climbed to 20.9
percent in November.  In focus over the weekend will be role of the  European
Central Bank  as it holds talks with Greece over exempting Greek
bonds in national central banks’ investment portfolios from a
debt restructuring, two euro-area officials said.  ECB Executive Board member Peter Praet said profits from
the sale of the central bank’s Greek bond holdings will be
distributed via the national central banks to the euro-area
governments, which can “spend the money as they wish.” The ECB
can’t participate in a private-sector debt writedown of Greek
assets, he told De Tijd and L’Echo newspapers.  ‘Dangerous Contagion’  Investors anticipating a conclusion of the seven-month
effort to complete the second bailout for Greece sent the  euro 
and global stocks higher this week. The euro rose 0.2 percent to
$1.3150 as of 6:58 p.m. in Berlin yesterday after earlier
gaining as much as 0.5 percent.  “ Monetary policy  alone cannot resolve the crisis,” ECB
council member Ignazio Visco said at an event in Parma,  Italy ,
today. “The threat of dangerous contagion must be definitively
dispelled by resolving the problem of Greece.”  Merkel, Papademos and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
discussed plans for a second Greek bailout in a conference call
yesterday and are confident that finance ministers will “find a
solution to open questions” when they meet in Brussels, Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said in a statement.  Debt Targets  While Greek lawmakers this month passed austerity measures
that are required for the aid, euro-area finance ministers heard
on a Feb. 15 conference call that Greece would miss debt-
reduction goals without further measures. Greece’s debt would
fall to 129 percent of gross domestic product in 2020, missing a
target of 120 percent, said three people familiar with the talks
who declined to be named because they are still in progress.
Last year, the level was about 160 percent.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  signaled
flexibility on that target, saying during a panel discussion in
Stuttgart last night that “the 120 percent may be 122 percent
or 123 percent, it mustn’t be 130 percent.”  “It will definitely take until Sunday night” to resolve
the outstanding questions, Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus told reporters in Berlin.  Keeping the bond swap on track may hinge on the ECB. The
bank is swapping its Greek bonds for new ones to ensure it isn’t
forced to take losses in any debt restructuring, three euro-area
officials said on Feb. 16. The move may be completed by Feb. 20,
the officials said.  Bond Swap  That could pave the way for a private-sector bond swap that
aims to slice about 100 billion euros off Greece’s debt
alongside the second bailout. More controversial is a proposal
for national central banks to take part in the private exchange
by accepting losses on Greek bonds in their investment
portfolios.  “Markets are likely anticipating a positive outcome with
voluntary participation of the private sector and possibly some
ECB involvement,”  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of
 Scotland  in  London , said by e-mail. Even so, “Greece is likely
to remain a key risk for the euro area as the implementation of
the program feeds the theme of exit from the monetary union.”  Euro officials are targeting a window of Feb. 22 to March 9
to complete the swap transaction, German lawmakers were told
during a briefing by government officials last week.  Collective Action Clauses  The Greek government is meanwhile drawing up legislation
that could be used to impose losses on investors who don’t
support the debt swap, according to two euro-region officials
familiar with the situation. The law may be introduced to
parliament in  Athens  in the coming days, said one of the
officials. Finance ministers are prepared to back the use of so-
called collective action clauses if the voluntary swap doesn’t
draw enough participation, the other person said.  The bond exchange can only go ahead once governments
authorize the European Financial Stability Facility to provide
30 billion euros, to be used in cash or collateral as an
incentive to investors.  With Greece’s ability to honor its debt-cutting pledges
still in question, finance ministers may again withhold approval
of the bailout even if they back the bond exchange, Citigroup
Global Markets analysts said. That would push the dispute closer
to a March 1-2 summit of European leaders.  Holding back euro-area policy makers is “widespread
skepticism about the credibility of Greece’s political system as
a whole and its ability to implement what has already been
agreed,” Nomura Global Economics analysts said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  