-- Greece Said to Plan Law to Impose Losses on Investors Who Shun Debt Swap
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-02-17T17:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/greece-said-to-plan-law-to-impose-losses-on-investors-who-shun-debt-swap.html
The Greek government is drawing up
legislation that could be used to impose losses on investors who
don’t support the debt swap that’s part of the country’s new
bailout package, said two euro-region officials familiar with
the situation.  The law may be introduced to parliament in  Athens  in the
coming days, said one of the officials, who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the deliberations are confidential. Euro
region finance ministers are prepared to back the use of so-
called collective action clauses if a voluntary debt swap
doesn’t draw enough participation, the other person said.  Getting investors to agree a writedown on the debt is a
condition for sealing a second Greek bailout as officials seek
to cut Greece’s debt load. Euro-area finance ministers have
slated a Feb. 20 meeting as a make-or-break effort to solve open
questions on a new Greek rescue agreement, Deputy German
Finance Minister Steffen Kampeter said in Hamburg last night.  Chancellor Angela Merkel , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos held a 
conference call earlier today and are confident that the Feb. 20
meeting will “find a solution for open questions,” said Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman.  Giorgios Zanias, chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisors to the  finance ministry , didn’t respond to calls on his
cellphone.  The  European Central Bank  is swapping its Greek bonds for
new ones to ensure it isn’t forced to take losses in a debt
restructuring, three euro-area officials said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  