-- Iberdrola, Endesa Will ‘Never Accept’ Loan Writedowns in Spain
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-02-17T15:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/iberdrola-endesa-will-never-accept-loan-writedowns-in-spain.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE) ,  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS)  and
 Endesa SA (ELE)  will “never accept” any writedown on loans to
 Spain ’s electricity system, the industry’s lobby group said.  Any so-called haircut on power-system debts would be an
expropriation, Eduardo Montes, chairman of the Madrid-based
 Unesa  group, said today at a press conference in the city.
“That would be very, very serious and we wouldn’t be
impassive,” he said.  Spain’s electricity system has run up a 24 billion-euro
($32 billion) debt by charging consumers less than the revenue
booked by utilities. Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said
yesterday that power companies will have to share the burden of
eliminating debts as the nation works to cut its  budget deficit .  Soria wasn’t insisting a writedown was on the table,
Montes said. “The minister has never spoken to me of a
haircut,” he said. “We would never accept it.”  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria twice
passed up invitations to rule out haircuts for the power
industry at a separate briefing in Madrid today.  The cost of delivering power in Spain is set to outstrip
revenue from electricity bills by 5.9 billion euros next year,
Unesa estimates, dwarfing a legal limit of 1.5 billion euros for
the so-called tariff deficit set by the previous administration.  Soria stopped granting subsidies for new renewable-energy
plants last month to shore up state funds. Montes urged the
government to extend the subsidy freeze to projects approved and
not yet commissioned.  The row over financing of the electricity system piles more
pressure on Mariano Rajoy’s administration as it struggles to
convince investors it can meet a target to lower its budget
deficit to 4.4 percent of gross domestic product this year, from
about 8 percent last year, while simultaneously trying to create
jobs in a country where 23 percent of workers are unemployed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  