-- Libyans Mark Revolt Anniversary Amid Criticism of Government
-- B y   C l a r e   S t e p h e n s
-- 2012-02-17T15:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/libyans-mark-anniversary-uprising-amid-criticism-of-government.html
Thousands of Libyans gathered in
Tripoli to mark the first anniversary of the start of the
uprising that toppled  Muammar Qaddafi .  Flags decorated public buildings and streets in the
capital. Security was tightened, with roadblocks set up and
militias from across the country brought into the capital, after
Saadi Qaddafi, a son of the late ruler, last week predicted a
loyalist “uprising” today.  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman issued a statement
saying while it “will take time” to build a democracy in
 Libya , the National Transitional Council must make its decisions
“openly and transparently” and revolutionaries who toppled
Qaddafi “now have a responsibility” to enable stability, peace
and reconciliation.  “Last February, few could imagine that the peaceful
protesters in cities from Benghazi to Tripoli would bring down a
four-decade-old dictatorship,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the statement.  “Through their courage and great sacrifice, and with the
support of the United States and an international coalition, the
Libyan people defeated a brutal regime and won their freedom,”
Carney said.  Libya’s ruling National Transitional Council declared
victory on Oct. 23, three days after Qaddafi’s death at the
hands of rebel fighters. Since then, authorities have struggled
to create a unified administration and revive the economy as
they prepare for national elections due in June. Protests
accusing the NTC of incompetence and secrecy are widespread.  Amnesty International  said in a report this week that
detainees have been tortured and sometimes killed by militias
that the government is unable to control. “The authorities have
not moved on a single case,” Donatella Rovena, who helped
compile the report, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clare Stephens in London at 
 cstephens14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  