-- Timchenko’s Kolmar to Boost Coal Output Fivefold, Eyes Seaport
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-02-17T09:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/timchenko-s-kolmar-to-boost-coal-output-fivefold-eyes-seaport.html
Kolmar , a Russian coal miner
controlled by billionaire Gennady Timchenko and the Gunvor Group
trading company that he co-founded, plans to invest more than
$500 million to boost output fivefold.  Kolmar is seeking to produce 6 million metric tons of coal
in 2015 compared with 1.2 million tons last year, Arkady
Ostrovskiy, the producer’s investment director, said in an
interview in Moscow.  Gunvor, which handles about a fifth of Russia’s seaborne
oil exports, may also join Kolmar founder and co-owner Anatoly
Mitroshin in building a marine terminal near the Vanino port in
Russia’s Far East, Ostrovskiy said, declining to estimate the
project cost. The terminal may export as much as 15 million tons
of coal a year, he said. Siberian Coal Energy Co., or Suek, has
spent about $450 million developing a coal terminal with similar
capacity there, Kommersant newspaper said in August 2008.  Timchenko’s Volga Resources and Gunvor, in which he holds
about 45 percent, agreed to acquire a controlling stake in
Kolmar in July and plan to close the acquisition this quarter,
Anton Kurevin, a spokesman for the billionaire’s companies, said
by telephone.  Gunvor, with 2011 revenue of about $80 billion, is
diversifying from oil to other commodities including coal, Chief
Executive Officer Torbjorn Tornqvist told Vedomosti daily in
October.  Kolmar, which mines coal in eastern Siberia’s Yakutia
region, increased reserves 2 1/2-fold to 1.1 billion tons after
its acquisition this month of the Zapadny coal field, which
neighbors its other deposits in the region, Ostrovskiy said.
Kolmar paid 950 million rubles ($32 million) for Zapadny,
 Russia ’s subsoil resources agency said on  website  Feb. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  