-- Index of Leading Indicators Points to Sustained Expansion in U.S.: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-17T21:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/index-of-leading-economic-indicators-in-u-s-climbs-0-4-in-expansion-sign.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
rose in January and the cost of living climbed less than
forecast, pointing to sustained economic growth with limited
price pressures.  The 0.4 percent increase in the Conference Board’s gauge of
the outlook for the next three to six months followed a 0.5
percent rise in December, the strongest back-to-back gains in
almost a year. The consumer-price index rose 0.2 percent in
January after no change, the Labor Department said today.  An improvement in the labor market and increased hours
worked may help deliver the income gains needed to encourage
Americans to boost spending. A lack of inflation gives  Federal
Reserve  policy makers room to keep interest rates low through
2014 to ensure the expansion endures a global slowdown.  “There is some pretty good momentum in the economy,” said
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 New York . “Inflation seems to be in a sweet spot -- not too
hot, not too cold.”  Stocks advanced, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
near the highest level in about three years, amid optimism
 Greece  will get a bailout. The  S&P 500  increased 0.2 percent to
1,361.23 at the close in New York. The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note climbed to 2 percent from 1.98 percent
late yesterday.  In  Europe  today, a report showed U.K. retail sales
unexpectedly rose for a second month in January, adding to signs
the economy may strengthen and avoid a recession. Purchases
including fuel rose 0.9 percent from December, when they rose
0.6 percent, according to figures from the  Office for National
Statistics  in  London .  Europe’s Debt Crisis  Elsewhere,  Singapore ’s exports fell in January for the
first time in three months as Europe’s debt crisis crimped
demand for electronics and petrochemicals and the Chinese New
Year holiday shortened the working month.  The median forecast of 48 economists surveyed for the
January leading index called for an increase of 0.5 percent,
with estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranging from 0.4 percent
to 1.4 percent.  Seven of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the pickup, helped by a gain in the factory workweek and
higher stock prices.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, rose 0.2 percent after a 0.3
percent increase in the prior month.  Companies seeing a pickup in demand include Swift
Transportation Co., the biggest truckload carrier in  North
America .  Swift Transportation  “Our customers are all doing very, very well,”  Jerry Moyes , chief executive officer at Swift Transportation, said in
a Feb. 16 conference presentation. “They’re very bullish about
going forward. They’re talking about adding new stores, adding
new distribution centers and a lot of them have got quite a bit
of cash.”  Consumers’ moods also are lifting. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index rose for a fourth straight week to reach the
highest level in a year as more households said they believe the
economy is improving, according to data for the period ended
Feb. 12.  Claims for jobless benefits last week dropped to the lowest
level since 2008, showing the job market is on the mend.
Builders began work on more houses in January, and manufacturing
in the Philadelphia area accelerated, other reports showed this
week.  Federal Reserve  “Despite some recent signs of improvement, the recovery
has been frustratingly slow,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday. He also said bank supervisors must strike a
“delicate balance” between encouraging lending and avoiding a
race to the bottom in loan standards.  Central bank officials have said they plan to keep the
benchmark  interest rate  low until at least late 2014 to spur
economic growth.  Limited inflation is affording policy makers the room to
keep a lid on borrowing costs. The consumer-price index rose 2.9
percent from January 2011, the smallest year-to-year advance
since March 2011.  The so-called core measure of consumer prices, which
excludes food and energy costs, also rose 0.2 percent in January
from the previous month. The core measure increased 2.3 percent
in the 12 months ended in January, the biggest gain since
September 2008.  Fed policy makers see inflation decelerating this year to
below their 2 percent goal, with most expecting prices to rise
1.4 percent to 1.8 percent, according to forecasts released Jan.
25.  “Inflation has been subdued in recent months, and longer-
term inflation expectations have remained stable,” the Fed said
Jan. 25. The monetary policy-making committee “also anticipates
that over coming quarters, inflation will run at levels at or
below those consistent with the committee’s dual mandate” of
fostering  price stability  and maximum employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  