-- Sensex Advances for Seventh Straight Week on Inflows, Enters Bull Market
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-02-17T12:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/india-stock-futures-advance-on-u-s-economy-greek-bailout-talks.html
Indian stocks completed the longest
weekly winning streak in almost two years to enter into a bull
market after  Europe  moved closer to a bailout for  Greece  and
overseas investors bought assets in the South Asian nation.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, gained 0.8
percent to 18,289.35 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, making it
Asia’s best performing stock measure.  Bharat Heavy Electricals
Ltd. (BHEL) , the biggest power-equipment maker, jumped the most since
July 2009.  State Bank of India , the nation’s largest lender,
surged to the highest level since July. Foreign  investors  bought
a net  $444 million  of Indian stocks in two days to Feb. 16,
taking their investment this year to $4.9 billion.  This rally is “liquidity driven,” Manishi Raychaudhuri,
head of Indian equity research at BNP Paribas SA, said in an
interview with Bloomberg UTV today. “This is typically the kind
of inflow India gets over a span of four to five months and not
one to two months. It’s been caused by massive inflows into
emerging-market funds.”  The Sensex climbed 3.1 percent this week, a seventh
consecutive weekly advance, the longest since the period ended
April 9, 2010. The index has rallied 18 percent this year,
reaching the highest level since August, as inflation slowed,
the central bank cut lenders’ reserve requirements for the first
time since 2009 and the rupee jumped from a record low.  The 30-company  gauge  has climbed 21 percent from a December
low, surpassing the 20 percent threshold that signals a  bull
market . The gauge trades at 16.2 times estimated  earnings ,
compared with 10.7 times on the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. The
Sensex is the best performer in dollar terms after the  Egypt ’s
EGX 30 Index this year among 93 benchmark indexes tracked by
Bloomberg.  Global Economy  Jobless claims in the U.S. dropped to a four-year low and
housing starts beat forecasts. European governments considered
cutting rates on emergency loans to Greece and using European
Central Bank contributions to plug a new financing gap in a
second bailout, two people familiar with the talks said.  Bharat Heavy Electricals soared 6.7 percent to 303.55
rupees, its highest level since Nov. 15.  Tata Power Co. (TPWR) , the
biggest electricity generator outside state control, increased
4.1 percent to 118.65 rupees, its third day of advance.  State Bank  rose 2.8 percent to 2,417.05 rupees, extending
this week’s climb to 11 percent. The stock has soared 49 percent
this year, the second-most among the Sensex companies. Nearest
rival  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  added 1.3 percent to 981.6 rupees.  “We had a clear signal by the  Reserve Bank  that rate cuts
are around the corner,” BNP Paribas’s Raychaudhuri said.
“There’s been a gradual turnaround in the policy environment
and the attention the government is paying in trying to
accelerate the investment climate. It’s difficult to comment
whether this is a secular bull run or not, but for the time
being this is likely to continue.”  Rate Outlook  The Reserve Bank of  India  said the majority of external
members on an advisory panel recommended an interest-rate cut
last month, underscoring rising pressure to counter weakening
growth in Asia’s third-largest economy.  Three of the seven external members suggested lowering the
repurchase rate by 0.25 percentage point and one advised a half-
point cut, the minutes of the Jan. 18 meeting released by the
central bank today showed. Three recommended no change.  The interest-rate cycle has peaked after 13 increases
between March 2010 and October 2011, Reserve Bank Deputy
Governor Subir Gokarn said on Feb. 14 as data showed inflation
in January at the slowest in more than two years.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India increased 0.8 percent to 5,564.30. The BSE 200 Index
gained 0.7 percent to 2,262.14. Markets are closed on Feb. 20
for a public holiday.  Flows into emerging-market equity funds have reached $19
billion this year, compared with outflows of $34 billion in
2011, Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a
report today, citing data compiled by EPFR Global.  “Emerging markets are beta plays on global markets,”  Mark Matthews , head of research for  Asia  at Bank Julius Baer & Co.,
said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV today. “People feel
they will get better returns in a bull market by being in an
emerging market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  