-- Indonesian Rupiah Gains on U.S. Economic Data, Greece Optimism
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-02-17T08:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/indonesian-rupiah-gains-on-u-s-economic-data-greece-optimism.html
Indonesia’s rupiah rose for the
first time in four days after U.S. reports added to signs of a
recovery in the world’s biggest economy and optimism increased
that  Greece  will secure a second bailout.  Gains in the currency may be limited after Bank Indonesia
Governor Darmin Nasution said on Feb. 10 that authorities have
been intervening in the currency and bond markets to curb
volatility. The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of shares had a ninth
weekly gain, equal to the longest winning streaks since it was
introduced in 1988. Jobless claims in the U.S. fell to a four-
year low and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s economic
index beat economist estimates, data showed yesterday.  “All the other regional currencies are picking up and the
rupiah is moving in the same direction,” said Artanavaro Gasali,
a Jakarta-based trader at PT Bank ICBC Indonesia. “It should
stay somewhere within 8,900 to 9,000 in the coming week, because
the central bank is keeping it in a range.”  The rupiah appreciated 0.35 percent to 9,058 per dollar as
of 3:36 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency fell 0.3 percent this week.  European governments are considering cutting  interest rates 
on emergency loans to Greece and using contributions from the
 European Central Bank  to plug a new financing gap in the second
bailout program for Athens, two people familiar with the
discussions said.  U.S. jobless claims dropped by 13,000 in the week ended Feb.
11 to 348,000, less than the most optimistic estimate of 45
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures
showed yesterday.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bond due May 2022
climbed eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.23
percent this week, according to midday prices from the Inter
Dealer Market Association. The rate increased one basis point
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in  Singapore  at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 