-- Sweden’s Economic Prospects Darken as Borg, Ingves Predict Gloom This Year
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-02-17T12:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/ingves-says-swedish-home-prices-may-drop-further-as-growth-slows.html
Sweden’s economy,  Europe ’s strongest
as recently as 2010, will hardly grow this year as the crisis
that started in Greece spreads north, killing jobs, sapping
confidence and tipping the housing market into a decline.  Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg announced today the
government will cut the economic growth outlook for 2012 to 0.5
percent from an August estimate of 1.3 percent as exports
falter. Central bank Governor Stefan Ingves said in an interview
 house prices  may slide further in the largest Nordic economy
after almost halving his economic forecast for the economy.  “Judging by the central bank’s outlook, the Swedish
economy has shifted down to a dramatically lower gear,” Anders Kjaer, a senior analyst at Nykredit A/S in Copenhagen, said in a
note. “Growth in the fourth quarter looks to have been
negative.”  The central bank yesterday cut its  main interest rate  a
quarter point to 1.5 percent and abandoned plans to raise rates
through the first quarter of 2013 as it predicted Europe’s debt
crisis will hurt exporters more than first estimated. Sweden,
which grew more than any other European Union economy in 2010,
has been unable to protect its exporters from the fallout of the
debt crisis, prompting the central bank to raise its forecast
for unemployment as trade weakens.  “Sluggish growth in the euro area has subdued the demand
for Swedish exports, which slowed down significantly in 2011,”
the bank said yesterday. The weaker outlook means households are
spending less, and companies are delaying investment, it said.  Rising Joblessness  Unemployment will rise to 7.7 percent this year and stay at
that level until 2014, the bank estimates. The economy will grow
0.7 percent this year, compared with a previous forecast for 1.3
percent, it said.  “The Riksbank and the commercial banks estimate around 0.5
percent growth and it’s reasonable to believe that we also end
up around there when we have finished revising,” Borg said. He
expects a recovery to set in next year.  Sweden ’s trade surplus shrank to its narrowest in more than
a year in December as exports, which account for about half of
the country’s output, fell for a third month. The 17-nation euro
region shrank at the end of 2011 for the first time since 2009,
as debt woes blunted demand.  Sweden suffered a deeper economic contraction in 2009 than
neighboring  Norway  after the country’s exports fell 12 percent.
Swedish output contracted 5.1 percent that year, versus a 1.8
percent decline in Norway’s economy, adjusting for its oil
income. The average for the world’s industrialized countries was
a 3.8 percent contraction in 2009, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development estimates.  Household Indebtedness  At the same time, Sweden’s property values are declining
from what  Robert Shiller , the co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller
home-price index, last month characterized as bubble levels. The
European Union on Feb. 14 said Sweden is under review for
“increasing household indebtedness,” after debt as a share of
disposable incomes rose to a 170 percent last year from about
100 percent in 2000.  “It’s not unreasonable to assume that house prices may
fall a bit, or at least park at today’s level,” Ingves said
yesterday in an interview in Stockholm. “The pace of lending is
significantly lower now than before and we have a generally
weaker economic development.”  The  International Monetary Fund  said back in June that
Swedish homes “appear overvalued with enduring price falls
likely.” Property values fell 2 percent last quarter, sliding
from a record that had been fueled by tax cuts, historically low
central bank interest rates and the fastest economic expansion
in four decades in 2010.  Ingves said household debt levels remain “manageable”
after borrowing slowed down.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  