-- Minneapolis Football Stadium Subsidy Blocked by Taxpayer Anger
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   J o e   K i m b a l l
-- 2012-02-17T19:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/minnesota-s-dayton-rallies-for-vikings-as-taxpayers-decry-stadium-subsidy.html
The formula to get taxpayers to pay
for professional sports stadiums usually works this way: Promise
construction jobs and downtown revitalization, and threaten to
move the team if you don’t get what you want.  That strategy is meeting stiff resistance in  Minnesota (STOMN1) ,
where unhappiness with cuts to education and human services, and
Tea Party politics in the Legislature have stalled efforts to
obtain a public subsidy to build a $1 billion stadium for the
 National Football League ’s Vikings. The fight has thrust the
state’s Democratic governor,  Mark Dayton , 65, into the role of
head cheerleader for the Vikings.  “I’m amazed that some people feel no urgency to put
several thousand more Minnesotans back to work,” Dayton said in
his Feb. 15 State of the State speech. “Some of you reportedly
want to avoid voting on a stadium until after next fall’s
elections. That would be terribly unfair.”  The slowdown has empowered taxpayers who have grown
accustomed to seeing public dollars pay for football titans’
stadiums even as the nation recovers from the worst recession
since the 1930s. State revenue nationwide remained 7 percent
below prerecession levels in the third quarter of 2011, and is
“not growing fast enough to recover any time soon,” according
to a report this month by the  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities , a Washington-based nonprofit research group.  Subsidy resistance is also massing in St. Louis, where the
NFL Rams want $124 million in upgrades to the 16-year-old Edward
Jones Dome.  ‘It’s Just Nuts’  “The city doesn’t have enough money to maintain a dog
pound and the mayor doesn’t know how he’ll pay for pensions,”
Fred Lindecke, spokesman for the St. Louis-based Coalition
Against Public Funding for Stadiums, said in a telephone
interview. “In that kind of atmosphere we’re supposed to
subsidize a multimillionaire? It’s just nuts.”  Seattle is considering a proposal for a new basketball and
hockey arena that would include $200 million in city and county
financing, and require no new taxes, the  Seattle  Times reported.  Research by Judith Grant Long, who teaches urban planning
at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , has shown
that public subsidies for sports venues cost taxpayers an
average of 40 percent more than the stated price for each of the
99 facilities built through 2001.  In  Minnesota , the Vikings want as much as $700 million in
state and local government support, roughly 60 percent of the
annual $1.2 billion  Minneapolis  budget. A site hasn’t been
determined for a stadium and financing hasn’t been decided.  Roof Falls In  While the Twin Cities have lost professional hockey and
basketball teams, the Vikings have been a mainstay since 1961.
They’ve played for 30 years in the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome,
where the roof collapsed in 2010 under the weight of heavy snow.
The Vikings notified the NFL on Feb. 15 that they will play the
2012 season in the Metrodome, despite the expiration of the
lease.  While business leaders are rallying around the idea of a
new stadium, as is Mayor R.T. Rybak, the City Council hasn’t
embraced taxpayer support, nor have lawmakers.  “What’s more urgent are the broken emergency medical
systems in the state, where people are being turned away from
dialysis and chemotherapy,” said state Representative Karen Clark, a Democrat of Minneapolis. “Our wealthy players and
owners, I think they can hang in there a bit. It doesn’t seem so
urgent to me.”  The Vikings are owned by  Zygi Wilf , 61, a real estate
developer. He didn’t immediately return telephone messages
seeking comment.  Strange Teammates  Stadium politics has changed in the state, creating
“peculiar coalitions,” said Larry Jacobs, a political
scientist at the  University of Minnesota . The business-oriented
constituency of the  Republican Party , Jacobs said, has been
weakened by a faction bent on lowering taxes and cutting
spending.  “And you’ve got a Democratic governor fighting like heck
for it,” Jacobs said. “A very strange situation.”  The debate over stadiums’ economic benefit has raged for
decades. Brad Humphreys, a sports economist at the University of
Alberta in  Edmonton ,  Canada , said the argument for new stadiums
“used to be that they’d create jobs, and that’s been debunked.
Now it’s because you need to revitalize downtowns,” he said.  “The jury’s still out on whether the revitalization takes
place,” Humphreys added.  Humphreys co-wrote a 2008 study that said most economists
“believe that sports subsidies are unwarranted.”  Rams Running  “The fact that sports subsidies continue to be granted,
despite the overwhelming preponderance of evidence that no
tangible economic benefits are generated by these heavily
subsidized professional sports facilities, remains the puzzle,”
the report said.  In  St. Louis , financial pressures prompted the Convention
and Visitors Commission to propose that the Rams pick up 52
percent of the cost of renovating the Jones Dome.  The Rams, who can break their lease and move if luxury box,
lighting and other issues aren’t addressed, have until March 2
to respond to the proposal. The team moved to St. Louis in 1995
from  Los Angeles , seven years after the Cardinals moved to
Phoenix.  Voters Weigh In  Voters in St. Louis and St. Louis County approved ballot
issues in 2002 and 2004 requiring public votes for the building
of taxpayer-supported stadiums. While changes to the Jones Dome
wouldn’t require a vote, Mayor Francis Slay promised in a Feb. 1
blog posting that “new public dollars spent to make the
facility ‘top tier’ will be subject to the prior vote of the
people.  ‘‘If the CVC gets an agreement with the Rams, YOU will get
the final say.’’  Rams owner E. Stanley Kroenke, 64, who runs Kroenke Sports
Enterprises, didn’t immediately return telephone messages
seeking comment. Artis Twyman, communications director for the
Rams, said the team had nothing to say.  With states and cities cutting education funding and other
popular services, stadiums are a harder sell, said Patrick
Rishe, an economist at Webster University in suburban St. Louis.  ‘‘This is not the kind of environment to be making
ultimatums for upgrades to football facilities,’’ Rishe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  