-- Insurance Agents in New York and Florida Charged in $100 Million Fraud
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-17T02:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/insurance-agents-in-new-york-and-florida-charged-in-100-million-fraud.html
Three insurance agents based in  New
York  and  Florida  were charged with using straw buyers to obtain
more than $100 million in life insurance policies they resold to
third-party investors.  Michael Binday, 48, of New York; James Kevin Kergil, 57, of
Peekskill, New York; and Mark Resnick, 56, of Orlando, Florida,
were charged with conspiracy, fraud and obstruction of justice,
 Preet Bharara , the U.S. attorney in  Manhattan , said in a
statement today. They each face as long as 80 years in prison if
convicted, he said.  “These three insurance agents concocted an elaborate
scheme, using straw buyers and third-party agents, to deceive
life insurance providers into issuing policies to unintended
beneficiaries,” Bharara said. “When their scheme was
unraveling, they allegedly sought to throw investigators off the
trail by destroying documents and telling other individuals to
lie.”  The three recruited elderly clients of “modest means” to
apply for life insurance policies without disclosing to the
insurance companies that they intended to sell the policies to
investors, according to prosecutors. They earned millions of
dollars in commission and purchased some of the policies from
the straw buyers for themselves, prosecutors said.  “We intend to vigorously contest that a crime even
occurred here,” JaneAnne Murray, Resnick’s lawyer, said in a
phone interview. “Much less that Mr. Resnick is guilty of any
crime.”  Richard Strassberg , Binday’s lawyer, said in a phone
interview that he entered a not guilty plea on behalf of his
client. Binday voluntarily surrendered to authorities and was
released on bail, the lawyer said.  His client expects to be “fully vindicated,” Strassberg
said.  Roger Stavis, Kergil’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
call to his office for comment on the allegations after regular
business hours.  The case is U.S. v. Binday, 12-152, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  