-- Iran Offers ‘Readiness’ for Nuclear Talks as It Faces Financial Isolation
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-02-17T23:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/iran-seeks-atomic-talks-at-earliest-possibility-in-letter.html
Iran seeks direct negotiations about
its nuclear program at the “earliest possibility,” the
country’s top nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , wrote in a Feb.
14 letter to  Europe ’s foreign policy head  Catherine Ashton .  As the U.S. and European Union are evaluating the Iranian
message, a bipartisan group of U.S. senators said they are
“extremely concerned” that Iran will “seek to buy time” or
weaken economic sanctions without giving up uranium enrichment
activities that may be used to make the fuel for nuclear
weapons.  Separately, the global bank-transfer messaging service
known as Swift said yesterday it is preparing to expel Iranian
financial institutions that are under EU sanctions. The Society
for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication facilitates
transactions for the global banking industry.  “If strictly implemented, this could deny Iran’s banks the
ability to move billions of dollars in financial transactions,
and put immense pressure on Iran’s leaders to reconsider their
policies,”  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Foundation
for Defense of Democracies, a Washington policy group, said in
an e-mail.  Jalili wrote Ashton that “we voice our readiness for
dialogue on a spectrum of various issues which can provide
ground for constructive and forward-looking cooperation,”
according to a copy of the letter obtained by Bloomberg News.
Talks on the nuclear issue should be approached “on step-by-
step principles and reciprocity,” he said in the letter.  Next Steps  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Ashton said
after meeting at the State Department in Washington yesterday
that they and allies are reviewing the letter to determine next
steps. While Ashton said she was “cautious” and
“optimistic,” they didn’t publicly accept the Iranian offer
for negotiations.  The European Union said Feb. 16 that it is studying the
letter, which was written after almost four months in response
to an Oct. 21 EU attempt to revive diplomacy. Iran hasn’t
negotiated with the so-called P5+1 -- the UN Security Council’s
permanent members  China ,  France ,  Russia , the U.K., and the U.S.
plus  Germany  -- since talks broke down in January 2011. The new
round of talks should be held at a “mutually agreed venue,”
according to the letter.  “This response from the Iranian Government is one we’ve
been waiting for and, if we do proceed, it will have to be a
sustained effort that can produce results,” Clinton said.  Letter Welcomed  The top U.S. diplomat welcomed the letter and described it
as an important step. She said  Iran has to be willing to
discuss its nuclear program, “and Iran’s response to Cathy’s
letter does appear to acknowledge and accept that.”  Clinton said it might take some time to formulate a
response because it was crucial to maintain unity within the
P5+1 on how to go forward. “It takes time to consult and to do
so in a thorough manner,” she said. “So we need to give time
to our partners in the P-5+1 process to do their own
evaluation.”  Ashton said the P5+1 would evaluate where the members left
off when the last round of talks fell apart and “where do we
need to go next.”  The P5+1 needs “to be clear what it is we mean to achieve
and what we’re expecting from the Iranians,” Ashton said. “And
that’s what we’re in the process of doing right now.”  Senators’ Concerns  The bipartisan group of U.S. senators wrote President
Barack Obama Feb. 16 to urge that sanctions be continued and
toughened even if negotiations get under way.  Iran ’s willingness
to return to talks “is most likely a direct consequence of this
pressure,” they wrote.  Among lawmakers signing the letter were Democrats Robert
Menendez of  New Jersey , Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand of
New York, and Richard Blumenthal of  Connecticut  and Republicans
 John McCain  of  Arizona , Marco Rubio of  Florida , and Lindsey
Graham of  South Carolina . Connecticut independent Joe Lieberman
also signed.  “We remain extremely concerned that the Iranian government
will seek to buy time or otherwise dilute the focus of our
diplomacy,” the lawmakers wrote.  “We would strongly oppose any proposal that caps or limits
sanctions against the Iranian regime in exchange for anything
less than full, verifiable and sustained suspension of all
enrichment activities, including both 3 percent and 20 percent
enrichment,” they said, referring to the process that could be
used to produce the 90 percent enriched uranium to fuel a
nuclear bomb.  U.S.-Israel Talks  Amid U.S. concerns that  Israel  may initiate military action
against Iran’s nuclear sites, the White House said in an e-mail
that National Security Adviser Tom Donilon plans to travel to
Israel from February 18 to Feb. 20 to discuss Iran and other
issues, such as the turmoil in  Syria . Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu is due in  Washington  to address the American
Israel Public Affairs Committee during the first week of March.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon said yesterday in Vienna
that Iranian assertions that its nuclear program is peaceful are
unconvincing and that it is up to the government in Tehran to
dispel suspicions about its atomic work. Iran says its nuclear
program is for civilian power and medical research purposes,
although the U.S., Israel and other nations say they suspect
Iran is seeking to acquire the capability to produce nuclear
weapons.  Oil Prices  Sanctions against Iran have created the conditions for a
negotiated outcome, according to a Feb. 15 New York Times op-ed
article written by Dennis B. Ross, who served two years on the
National Security Council staff as President Barack Obama’s
special assistant on Iran.  Oil may rise next week on concern that shipments will be
disrupted as tension between Iran and the West over the
country’s nuclear program increases, a Bloomberg News survey
showed.  Fifteen of 37 analysts, or 41 percent, forecast oil will
climb through Feb. 24. Twelve respondents, or 32 percent,
predicted prices will decline and 10 estimated there will be
little change. Last week, 53 percent of surveyed analysts
expected a decrease.  Crude oil for March delivery advanced $4.57, or 4.6
percent, to $103.24 a barrel this week on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange, the biggest weekly gain this year. Today’s
settlement was the highest since May 10. Prices are up 20
percent in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  