-- Spanish, Italian Bonds Rise on Greece Aid Deal Optimism; German Bunds Drop
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-02-17T16:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/italian-spanish-bonds-advance-as-signs-greece-moving-closer-to-aid-deal.html
Spanish and Italian bonds rose for a
second day amid speculation European officials are closing in on
an agreement to grant a second bailout to  Greece , fueling
optimism the region’s debt crisis will be contained.  Italy’s 10-year securities rose for a sixth week, the
longest run since August 2006, as Prime Minister  Mario Monti ,
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  expressed optimism an agreement on Greece can be
reached when euro-area finance ministers meet next week. German
bunds declined for a second day as signs of progress on Greece
damped demand for the region’s safest assets.  “The market seems to be trying to get itself into a better
place in terms of anticipating some good news” on Greece, said
Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate
Markets in  London . “The periphery is marginally more positive,
 Spain  is recovering.”  The Spanish 10-year yield dropped seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 5.25 percent at 4:32 p.m. London time
after falling 11 basis points yesterday. The 5.85 percent bond
due in January 2022 rose 0.575, or 5.75 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,315) face amount, to 104.515.  Italy’s 10-year yield declined eight basis points to 5.58
percent, meaning it has dropped three basis points this week.
The extra yield investors demand to hold the securities instead
of German bunds shrank 11 basis points to 365 basis points.  Approval Likely  Merkel, Monti and Papademos discussed efforts to obtain a
second bailout for Greece and are confident euro-area finance
ministers will “find a solution for open questions” on Feb.
20, Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said in a
statement. The three leaders held a conference call today,
Seibert said.  As long as Greece meets conditions for the aid, the finance
ministers gathering in Brussels will probably approve the rescue
package along with a planned debt exchange, three German
officials involved in a telephone briefing by government
officials said.  “We own Italy, it’s a name we like quite a bit,” said
Rick Rieder, chief investment officer for fundamental fixed-
income portfolios at BlackRock Inc., speaking in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “You’re
talking about a very different dynamic than the rest of the
peripherals. It’s a big country, big exports, wealthy nation.”
New York-based BlackRock is the world’s biggest money manager.  German Bunds  The German 10-year yield rose three basis points 1.93
percent. The yield dropped to a record 1.636 percent on Sept. 23
as the region’s debt crisis escalated.  “Bunds are likely to tread water around current levels
with risk appetite in general stabilizing as all eyes turn
toward Monday’s apparently crucial eurogroup meeting,” Sercan Eraslan, a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,
wrote in an e-mailed note.  Greece will submit legislation to parliament on Feb. 21 to
allow collective action clauses that may force bondholders
resisting a debt swap to take part, Naftemporiki reported,
without citing anyone. The debt-swap process will start on Feb.
22 and conclude on March 9, the Athens-based newspaper reported.  The yield on the Greek 2022 bond climbed 99 basis points to
34.37 percent, with the price falling 0.78 to 20.52 percent of
face value.  The 4.3 percent note due next month declined 5.26 to 36.74
percent of face amount. Without completing a debt swap, Greece
would need to pay 14.5 billion euros within a week of the March
20 redemption or trigger a sovereign default.  Volatility on Greek debt was the highest in euro-area
markets followed by  Portugal , according to measures of 10-year
bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps.
The change in the spread was 6.9 times the 90-day average.  German bunds have handed investors a loss of 0.4 percent
this year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds
lost 4.6 percent, and Italian securities returned 8.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  