-- Record $6 Trillion of Fake U.S. Bonds Seized
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-02-17T18:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/italy-police-seize-6-trillion-of-fake-u-s-treasury-bonds-in-switzerland.html
Italian anti-mafia prosecutors said
they seized a record $6 trillion of allegedly fake U.S. Treasury
bonds, an amount that’s almost half of the  U.S.’s public debt.   The bonds were found hidden in makeshift compartments of
three safety deposit boxes in Zurich, the prosecutors from the
southern city of Potenza said in an e-mailed statement. The
Italian authorities arrested eight people in connection with the
probe, dubbed “Operation Vulcanica,” the prosecutors said.  The U.S. embassy in  Rome  has examined the securities dated
1934, which had a nominal value of $1 billion apiece, they said
in the statement. “Thanks to Italian authorities for the
seizure of fictitious bonds for $6 trillion,” the embassy said
in a message on Twitter.  The financial fraud uncovered by the Italian prosecutors
in Potenza includes two checks issued through  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
in London for 205,000 pounds ($325,000), checks that weren’t
backed by available funds, the prosecutors said. As part of the
probe, fake bonds for $2 billion were also seized in Rome. The
individuals involved were planning to buy plutonium from
Nigerian sources, according to phone conversations monitored by
the police.  The fraud posed “severe threats” to international
financial stability, the prosecutors said in the statement. HSBC
spokesman Patrick Humphris in  London  declined to comment when
contacted by telephone. The U.S. Secret Service assisted the
Italian authorities, spokesman Edwin Donovan said.  Money Laundering  Creating fake Treasuries is a “common scam, especially in
 Italy ,” he said. The tipoff was the “astronomical” face value
of each bond, he said. Fake bonds in high denominations are more
common in  Europe , where people are less familiar with the face
value of U.S. Treasury bonds than in the U.S., he said.  Zurich’s public prosecutor’s office provided material to
their Italian counterparts in Potenza in 2011, according to
Corinne Bouvard, a spokeswoman for the senior public
prosecutor’s office of the canton of Zurich. The Swiss part of
the investigation ended on July 22, she said.  The Italian investigation initially focused on a Sicilian
who was living in Potenza and was “already known for  money
laundering  and exporting currency abroad,” according to the
statement from the Potenza prosecutor’s office.  Phony U.S. securities have been seized in Italy before and
there were at least three cases in 2009. Italian police seized
phony U.S. Treasury bonds with a face value of $116 billion in
August of 2009 and $134 billion of similar securities in June of
that year.  The U.S. Secret Service averages about 100 cases a year
related to bonds and other fictitious instruments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  