-- Jeremy Lin Will Join Shaq O’Neal’s Team at All-Star Rising Challenge
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/jeremy-lin-will-join-shaq-o-neal-s-team-at-all-star-rising-challenge.html
Jeremy Lin, who scored a record 136
points in his first five National Basketball Association starts,
was added to the pool for the All-Star Rising Stars Challenge.  Lin, who has led the New York Knicks to seven straight
wins, and the Miami Heat’s Norris Cole were added to Shaquille O’Neal’s team that will play Charles Barkley’s lineup on Feb.
24.  Honorary Commissioner Kenny Smith decided to put their
names on the list of rookies and sophomores for the challenge.
The format has changed from rookies versus sophomores to two
mixed teams.  On Feb. 14, Harvard University graduate Lin became the only
player to score more than 20 points and win each of his first
five starts since the NBA merged with the  American Basketball
Association (ABKB)  in 1976. Lin wasn’t drafted after graduation from
Harvard and was cut by two NBA teams before joining the Knicks
on Dec. 27.  Barkley passed on Lin to select Cleveland Cavaliers rookie
Kyrie Irving because, he said, Lin has “only been playing for a
week and it’s been a fantastic week.”  Passes on Lin  “It wasn’t very difficult to be honest,” Barkley said
during the televised draft. “Irving is terrific.”  Joining Lin and Cole on O’Neal’s team are Blake Griffin of
the Los Angeles Clippers, Greg Monroe of the  Detroit Pistons  and
Landry Fields of the Knicks.  Rookies on the roster are Markieff Morris of the Phoenix
Suns,  Kemba Walker  of the Charlotte Bobcats,  Brandon Knight  of
the Detroit Pistons, Tristan Thompson of the Cavaliers and the
Minnesota Timberwolves’ Ricky Rubio.  In addition to Irving, Barkley’s team includes rookies
Derrick Williams of the Timberwolves, MarShon Brooks of the New
Jersey Nets and Kawhi Leonard of the San Antonio Spurs.  The team also includes DeMarcus Cousins of the Sacramento
Kings, Paul George of the  Indiana Pacers , John Wall of the
 Washington Wizards , Gordon Hayward of the Utah Jazz, Tiago Splitter of the Spurs and Evan Turner of the  Philadelphia 76ers .  The Knicks play the New Orleans Hornets at Madison Square
Garden in New York tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  