-- Expert Networker John Kinnucan Arrested by FBI in Trading Probe
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/john-kinnucan-former-stock-analyst-arrested-by-fbi-spokesman-says.html
John Kinnucan, the Broadband
Research LLC founder who said he refused to secretly record a
money manager in a U.S. probe of insider trading, was arrested
in  Portland , Oregon, the FBI said.  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agents arrested Kinnucan at
his home late yesterday afternoon, Elizabeth Steele, an FBI
spokeswoman in Portland, said in an e-mail. Steele said Kinnucan
was in the Multnomah County Jail awaiting his initial appearance
today before a federal judge.  “There is no further information that I can give to you at
this point,” she said.  Peter Donald, a spokesman in the FBI’s New York office,
said he expected Kinnucan to be arraigned today in Portland and
eventually be brought to New York to face prosecution. He said
the charges are under seal and he couldn’t discuss the case
further.  At least 10 agents wearing FBI jackets arrived at
Kinnucan’s home at 4:19 p.m. yesterday, said a neighbor, who saw
the arrest and didn’t want to be identified because she knows
the family. Kinnucan, wearing a T-shirt and blue jeans and with
his arms handcuffed behind his back, was led away from his house
minutes later by the agents, the neighbor said.  Federal prosecutors in  New York  previously disclosed in
court papers that they had a court-authorized wiretap on
Kinnucan’s mobile phone.  Kinnucan, 54, whose public refusal of an FBI request to
wear a wire presaged a dozen insider-trading arrests, said in a
July 8 interview that he expected to be arrested.  ‘A Target’  “Am I a target? Yeah, absolutely,” Kinnucan said in the
interview. “There’s a saying that the government indicts who
they investigate, so I have always assumed that I was a
target.”  Kinnucan, who ran the expert networking firm, denied he
ever received illegal tips on companies, and insisted the kind
of information he provided hedge fund clients was publicly
available.  In October 2010, he sent an e-mail saying he had been
approached by federal agents who asked him to record
conversations with an unidentified money manager. The message
was sent to about 50 recipients, including clients such as
Wellington Management Co. in  Boston , Janus Capital Group Inc. in
Denver and SAC Capital Advisors LP in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Recorded Calls  Kinnucan’s calls were recorded in talks with Donald Longueuil, a former SAC portfolio manager, and Level Global
Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson, said prosecutors in
the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office, declined
to comment on Kinnucan’s arrest.  The probe is the biggest  insider-trading  investigation in a
generation, one that has implicated  hedge funds , technology
firms and expert networking firms such as Broadband Research.  More than 60 people have been charged with insider trading
in the five-year probe called “Perfect Hedge” by the FBI in
New York and by Bharara’s office. Janice Fedarcyk, head of the
FBI’s New York office, said more than 50 of those arrested have
pleaded guilty or been convicted after trial. Those convicted in
the probe include Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam ,
who is serving an 11-year prison term.  Nathaniel Burney, a New York lawyer who has represented
Kinnucan, said in a phone interview this week that he is no
longer his defense lawyer. Burney said this occurred sometime
late last year and declined to comment further on the matter,
citing attorney-client privilege.  The identity of Kinnucan’s current attorney couldn’t
immediately be determined.  Longueuil, Chiasson  Longueuil was sentenced in July to 2 1/2 years in prison
for his role in an insider-trading scheme. Chiasson pleaded not
guilty Feb. 14 to conspiracy and securities-fraud charges in
federal court in Manhattan.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps said at the Feb. 14
hearing that prosecutors had recordings of conversations between
Chiasson and Kinnucan.  Chiasson was one of four men arrested last month and
charged with participating in a “criminal club” that made
almost $62 million using illegal tips to trade in  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
stock. Prosecutors said the ring, which allegedly involved five
hedge funds and investment firms, is the largest identified by
the U.S. to date tied to a single stock.  Expert-networking firms connect investors with industry
experts who provide insight into a specific market.  ‘Industry Gossip’  Walter Shimoon, a former Flextronics International Ltd.
executive charged with insider trading who pleaded guilty in
July, said in court that he gave Kinnucan confidential nonpublic
information about his own company, as well as about OmniVision
Technologies Inc., Apple Inc. and Cisco Systems Inc.  Kinnucan said in July that he didn’t know why the
government would focus on him, saying his research was
“entirely in line” with standard industry practices. “This
was industry gossip,” he said of his work.  “The stuff we talked about you can find every day,
publicly, on the Internet,” he said.  Kinnucan said he never covered Shimoon’s company, adding,
“None of my clients cared one iota about Flextronics.”  “I have e-mails from my clients saying ‘This Apple stuff
is worthless’ and clients saying ‘This OmniVision stuff is
worthless’ and that ‘Walter Shimoon doesn’t know what he’s
talking about, it’s a joke.’”  During his plea before U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff,
Shimoon said he provided “specific production schedules and
forecasts for Flextronics customers and about its suppliers like
OmniVision, which produced camera sensors.”  Paid Consultant  Shimoon said that, at the time, he was working as a paid
consultant for  Broadband Research , which Kinnucan opened in
1999, as well as for  Mountain View , California-based Primary
Global Research LLC, another expert-networking firm.  Shimoon said Primary Global paid him about $200 an hour and
that he had earned a total of $18,000 from the company for
passing secret tips to hedge fund managers. Shimoon said he got
more than $27,000 from Kinnucan’s firm.  The crime was committed “in connection with Shimoon
providing material, nonpublic information to John Kinnucan,
Broadband Research, and, indirectly, to Broadband Research’s
clients, including money managers,” the government said in
court papers in Shimoon’s case.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Effinger in Portland,  Oregon , at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net  