-- JPMorgan’s $21 Million MF Global Account Not Customer Money, Trustee Says
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-17T22:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/jpmorgan-s-mf-global-account-not-customer-money-trustee-says.html
A probe of a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
account that received almost $1.8 billion in inflows of cash in
the month before  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s bankruptcy showed no
evidence that brokerage customers’ money was being siphoned off,
a trustee said.  Louis Freeh , who is handling the parent company’s
bankruptcy, said all transactions between the MF Global Inc.
brokerage customer account and the JPMorgan account, held by the
parent company’s finance affiliate, related to margin loans. The
affiliate lent money to brokerage customers to cover margin
requirements and was later repaid, he said in a report.  Freeh said he started the probe, which included “review of
volumes of bank statements and an extensive population of cash-
transaction activity during October 2011,” after U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan  asked if any cash in
the account belonged to brokerage customers, as some customers
had alleged. His findings indicate that at the JPMorgan account
money flowed from the parent’s affiliate to the brokerage, and
not the reverse.  After an investigation, “the trustee does not believe that
any of the cash in the JPM account as of the petition date
represents misdirected customer property,” Freeh said in the
report filed yesterday in  bankruptcy court  in Manhattan.  Account Activity  Even the account activity from Oct. 26-28, when a shortfall
began in MF Global’s segregated customer accounts, showed no
misdirected customer cash moving to the account at JPMorgan, he
said. In those two days, $322 million flowed into the finance
unit’s account and $773 million flowed out, of which $697
million was sent to the brokerage, Free said.  MF Global Holdings (MFGLQ) , formerly run by ex- Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  co-chairman  Jon Corzine , filed the eighth-largest U.S.
bankruptcy on Oct. 31, listing debt of almost $40 billion.  MF Global is using money in the account, which had a
balance of $25.3 million on Oct. 28, while it is in bankruptcy.
The account had about $21 million as of Jan. 31, according to a
monthly operating report filed yesterday.  Customers of the failed brokerage had said the money may
have been part of the $1.2 billion believed at the time to be
missing from their segregated accounts. The brokerage trustee,
James Giddens, has since traced most of the missing money, which
had been added to other sums he hasn’t immediately been able to
recover. He currently estimates the gap between customer claims
and funds available to pay them at $1.6 billion.  Freeh is handling the parent company’s bankruptcy in a
separate court proceeding.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-cv-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  