-- Keystone Pipeline Bill Passes House, Lacks Match in U.S. Senate
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-17T05:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/keystone-pipeline-advances-as-house-passes-oil-drilling-bill-1-.html
Legislation that would force U.S.
approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline and open
Atlantic waters to offshore drilling passed the House, a measure
that the Senate doesn’t plan to consider.  The bill, approved 237-187 yesterday, would strip President
 Barack Obama ’s authority to decide on TransCanada’s $7 billion
project and give the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 30
days to approve the pipeline after it’s deemed safe.  Obama rejected Keystone last month and asked the Calgary-
based company to find a route that wouldn’t endanger a Nebraska
aquifer.  “This legislation would create hundreds of thousands of
good-paying jobs for American workers,” Representative Doc Hastings, a Washington Republican and chairman of the House
Natural Resources Committee, said during a floor debate. “It’s
time to secure our own future with American-made energy.”  The measure is part of the House Republicans’ three-bill
plan to add jobs, lower energy imports and finance highways and
mass-transit programs. A portion of the revenue would come from
giving oil producers access to federal waters off the coasts of
California,  Florida  and  Virginia . The House plans to complete
action on the measures after taking a recess next week.  The House and Senate are examining proposals for funding
projects from non-transportation sources. The House will next
consider a measure forcing federal employees to pay more toward
their pensions. The Senate began debating a separate measure
last week, which doesn’t include a Keystone provision.  Wildlife Refuge  The House bill passed yesterday would permit energy
production in a part of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and
oil-shale deposits of Colorado.  “We all know these places are not going to be developed in
the near term at all,” Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said
during a hearing at the House’s natural resources panel this
week. “They will not fund the transportation needs of the
 United States of America .”  The bill would raise $4.28 billion by 2022, less than 10
percent of the revenue needed to pay for transportation
projects, Representative Ed Markey of  Massachusetts , senior
Democrat on the committee, said on Feb. 15.  Democrats and environmental groups said the beaches of
California and Florida are too pristine to risk being spoiled by
an  oil spill , while oil-shale production may taint Colorado’s
drinking water sources.  NRDC Opposition  Keystone XL is opposed by groups such as the  Natural
Resources Defense Council  and  Sierra Club , that say the crude to
be carried is corrosive and air pollution will increase during
production and refining.  The number of people needed to operate and maintain the
1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) pipeline may be as few as 20,
according to the U.S. State Department, or as many as a few
hundred, according to TransCanada.  Senate Republicans on Feb. 15 introduced legislation that
would bar the Obama administration from using the U.S. Strategic
Petroleum Reserve unless Keystone XL pipeline is approved.  The bill is H.R. 3408. The other measures are H.R. 3813 and
H.R. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  