-- Kinnucan’s Phone Threats Should Bar His Release, U.S. Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-17T23:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/kinnucan-s-phone-threats-should-bar-his-release-u-s-says-1-.html
U.S. prosecutors urged a judge to
detain John Kinnucan, who is charged with taking part in an
insider-trading scheme, citing a “pattern of threats and
intimidation” against witnesses and U.S. authorities.  Prosecutors in court papers quoted from profanity-filled
voice-mail messages left over two months with assistant U.S.
attorneys, FBI agents and a witness who is cooperating with the
government’s investigation. The voice mails contain numerous
ethnic and racial slurs and references to the Holocaust.  “Kinnucan has engaged in volatile and extreme conduct,
using references to genocide, violence and physical harm
directed to the targets of his ominous tirades,”  Manhattan 
prosecutors said in papers filed in federal court in  Portland ,
 Oregon , where Kinnucan appeared this afternoon and was ordered
held until at least Feb. 22, when his bail hearing resumes.  Kinnucan, 54, the founder of Broadband Research LLC, was
arrested at his Portland home yesterday and charged with one
count of conspiracy to commit  securities fraud , one count of
conspiracy to commit  wire fraud  and two counts of securities
fraud in a complaint unsealed in New York.  On Dec. 6, prosecutors said, Kinnucan left a voice mail for
an unnamed prosecutor: “Remember me? The guy who you tried to
destroy, you scummy piece of s--t.” Kinnucan added, according
to prosecutors, “Ah, too bad Hitler’s not around. He’d know
what to do with scum like you.”  ‘Hostile Individual’  The calls “are the actions of a volatile and hostile
individual” prosecutors argued.  “How the f--k can you live?” Kinnucan said to a
cooperating witness in a voice mail on Feb. 11, according to the
government. “Do you have a family, do you have children, do you
have a wife? How can you even walk down the street, why don’t
you just f--king kill yourself?”  That same day, prosecutors said, Kinnucan tried to contact
another cooperating witness, sending an e-mail to the witness’s
wife that asked her to have the witness call Kinnucan.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-mag-424, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 