-- New York Joins Obama-Backed Movement Tying Teacher Reviews to Test Scores
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-02-17T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/new-york-joins-obama-backed-movement-tying-teacher-reviews-to-test-scores.html
An agreement between  New York (STONY1)  and
its largest teachers union on evaluations makes the state part
of a movement backed by President  Barack Obama  to hold educators
responsible for student performance.  The deal announced yesterday by Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a
54-year-old Democrat, may save New York $700 million in federal
funding. It’s also an example of how the push to hold teachers
accountable has been taken up by both sides of the negotiating
table, said Jeanne Allen, president of the  Center for Education
Reform , a Washington-based group that supports charter schools
and diminished union power.  “This is a big step in the right direction that puts New
York up there in the top tier of states that have already begun
down the road of codifying an evaluation system with some
portion based on student test scores,” Allen said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “It’s terrific that we have
people from both parties finally recognizing that evaluation is
an important component of creating student achievement.”  Last month, U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan warned
that  New York  would have to return $700 million if it didn’t
fulfill its promise to Obama’s Race to the Top program to
implement teacher evaluations. The president, a Democrat, has
proposed $5 billion in incentives for states and school
districts to tie teacher pay to performance as part of his $69.8
billion education-budget proposal.  Cuomo Threat  The deal between the  Education Department  and  New York
State United Teachers  union was reached after Cuomo
threatened to insert his own evaluation plan into the budget.
The agreement puts into action a 2010 law and provides a
framework for districts to negotiate with local unions.  In a related deal, New York City and its local teachers
union, with Cuomo’s help, agreed to an appeals process for
educators graded poorly in evaluations that will save the city
at least $300 million in state funding, Cuomo said.  “This historic agreement about a statewide teacher
evaluation system that is directly linked to student performance
ends a two-year-long stalemate and will make New York the
national model for education reform,” Larry Schwartz, secretary
to the governor, said yesterday at a press conference in  Albany .  Under the agreement between the state and United Teachers,
which represents 600,000 people, 60 percent of an evaluation
will be based on classroom observations by administrators, and
peer and parent feedback. The remaining 40 percent will be split
between students’ performance on state tests and locally
developed exams.  ‘Talking About Layoffs’  New York’s more than 700 districts have until Jan. 17 to
use the framework to negotiate specifics with local unions or
risk losing their share of a 4 percent increase in state
funding, Cuomo said when he introduced his $132.5 billion budget
last month. Lawmakers approved the extra spending in last year’s
budget, bringing the total to $20.3 billion for fiscal 2013, or
about $800 million more than the current year.  “If a school district doesn’t get the money, the school
district is going to start talking about layoffs,” Cuomo said
during a Feb. 14 Cabinet meeting in Albany. “That’s going to
affect the union, and so I think that’s an incentive.”  The deal on evaluations is another victory for Cuomo. In
his first year, he erased a $10 billion deficit, got New York’s
two biggest government-worker unions to agree to pay freezes and
furloughs, instituted a property-tax cap and pushed through a
bill legalizing same-sex marriage in the third-most-populous
state. In December, the Legislature passed a Cuomo-endorsed tax
package that raised rates on joint filers earning $2 million or
more, and cut them for the middle class.  “He’s the first Democratic governor in New York to
challenge the unions and step up to the plate,” Allen said.  Not a Cure  Teacher evaluations aren’t a panacea, said  Alan Sadovnik ,
co-director of the Newark Schools Research Collaborative in  New
Jersey , a joint project between Newark Public Schools and
Rutgers University-Newark.  “I don’t think we should fool ourselves to think that
value-added teacher-evaluation systems will weed out all the
ineffective teachers or are a magic bullet to solving the
achievement gap,” Sadovnik said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “Unless we address conditions outside of schools,
while also addressing conditions inside schools, teacher
evaluations, while having some effect, will be limited.”  NYC Sticking Point  Among the rules that New York districts will negotiate is
the implementation of an appeals process for fired teachers.  United Teachers President Richard Iannuzzi said such a
system is best worked out locally.  “One size fitting all is a bad recipe for education,”
Iannuzzi said yesterday on WCNY public radio in Albany.  The appeals process had been a sticking point between  New
York City  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s administration and  United
Federation of Teachers , the local union.  The debate grew hostile and that’s “why they asked the
governor to sit down and broker an agreement,” Schwartz said
during the Feb. 14 meeting.  The Bloomberg administration and the UFT will now work out
the remaining details for the city evaluation system, the mayor
said at a press conference in New York yesterday.  “The system the governor will put into his budget
amendment, which will become effective by the end of the year,
will allow us to not only move forward with replacing the broken
’pass/fail’ system with something far more rigorous and far more
comprehensible,” Bloomberg said. “It will also help us ensure
that teachers who are rated ‘ineffective’ can be given the
support they need to grow, or if that doesn’t work, to be moved
out of the classroom.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  