-- News Corp. Plans Sunday Edition of Sun Tabloid
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-02-17T17:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/news-corp-s-rupert-murdoch-said-to-prepare-start-of-sun-on-sunday-tabloid.html
News Corp.’s  Rupert Murdoch , whose
U.K. papers have been beset with police and government
investigations into phone hacking and bribery, will start a new
tabloid to replace the disgraced News of the World.  Murdoch announced the plans for a Sunday edition of the Sun
tabloid at a meeting with journalists in London today. The staff
had requested an audience with the 80-year-old after a second
round of arrests a week ago into bribery sparked outrage among
journalists at Britain’s best-selling daily newspaper.  “We will build on The Sun’s proud heritage by launching
The Sun on Sunday very soon,” Murdoch said today in a memo,
obtained by Bloomberg News. “ Having a winning paper is the
best answer to our critics. I am even more determined to see The
Sun continue to fight for its readers and its beliefs.”  The plan for a new Sunday tabloid was unveiled before
legislators publish a report about why  News Corp. (NWSA)  executives
didn’t stop illegal activities at the British tabloids. The News
of the World was shut in July after reporters were found to have
hacked into the voicemails of politicians, celebrities and
murdered teenager  Milly Dowler  to get information for tabloid
stories.  The company’s Management and Standards Committee, formed by
New York-based News Corp. to assist police in their
investigations of phone-hacking and bribery, has said it handed
over information to aid three police inquiries into bribery,
phone hacking and computer hacking. Trevor Kavanagh, associate
Sun editor, had called the arrests of journalists a “witch
hunt.”  News Corp. shares rose 2.1 percent to $19.40 as of 11:59
a.m. in New York trading.  ‘Just Cynical’  The closing of the News of the World was “just cynical,”
 Chris Bryant , a lawmaker from the opposition  Labour Party , who
had sued the News or the World over phone-tapping, said in a
comment on the Twitter microblogging service.  Tom Watson , the lawmaker in the British Parliament who is
helping prepare the report that is expected to be critical of
News Corp. executives, said “this will not draw a line under
the crisis faced by News Corp. in the U.K.”  Marc Mendoza, chief executive officer of the Media Planning
Group, which places ads in U.K. newspapers, says Murdoch’s plans
show he’s defying conventional rules.  ‘Bring It On’  “It would be a brave move,” Mendoza said. Murdoch is
saying, “OK you’ve arrested these journalists, now we’re going
to print seven days a week instead of six. Bring it on.”  Murdoch said today that while the company would continue to
aid investigations into the newsroom, he would work to protect
reporters. The ten Sun journalists suspended from their jobs
following their arrests tied to the police investigation into
bribery will be allowed to return and can continue to work
unless they are charged with a crime, he said. News Corp. will
also cover legal expenses for accused reporters until they are
convicted.  “Everyone is innocent unless proven otherwise,” Murdoch
said in the memo sent to reporters. “We will continue to ensure
that all appropriate steps are taken to protect legitimate
journalistic privilege and sources, which I know are essential
for all of you to do your jobs.”  Murdoch told employees that he will stay in  London  for the
next several weeks to give staff his “unwavering support.” The
MSC estimates that at least 100,000 pounds ($158,000) was paid
to public officials in the last several years, according to a
person with knowledge of the investigation.  His allegiance to the tabloid, which Murdoch has run for
more than 40 years, may alienate other parts of the company,
which see the newspapers as a source of unnecessary controversy,
author Michael Wolff said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television.  ‘Off The Reservation’  “Rupert is off the reservation,” said Wolff, an editor at
 Vanity Fair  and the author of a book on Murdoch. “The company
is both defending the newspaper and prosecuting a newspaper in a
real way.”  Murdoch formed the MSC to begin digging through his
employees’ pasts after the 168-year-old News of the World was
shut down. The investigation ultimately widened beyond the News
of the World to News Corp.’s other U.K. titles including the Sun
and the Times. The Times is being investigated by police over
possible computer hacking by a reporter.  ‘Evidence’  Following the News of the World closing, Murdoch and his
son James, the former chairman of the U.K. News International
publishing unit and now deputy chief operating officer of News
Corp., had to appear before Parliament to explain how much they
knew. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  sponsored another
inquisition, led by Judge Brian Leveson, into press ethics that
is ongoing and may lead to new rules to discipline the media.  James Murdoch  didn’t fly to London this week with his
father as he had other commitments, said a person familiar with
the matter.  Sun journalists were treated like members of an “organized
crime gang,” Kavanagh said this week. The National Union of
Journalists has spoken to lawyers about challenging the MSC’s
activities. The committee has interviewed employees and searched
through e-mails and the use of private detectives, looking for
signs of corruption, two people familiar with the investigation
said in October.  “We cannot protect people who have paid public officials.
We will turn over every piece of evidence we find -- not just
because we are obligated to but because it is the right thing to
do,” Murdoch said today. At the same time, “we are doing
everything we can to assist those who were arrested.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  