-- Nigeria’s Naira Heads for Third Weekly Gain on Dollar Inflows
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-02-17T10:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/nigeria-s-naira-heads-for-third-weekly-gain-on-dollar-inflows.html
The naira strengthened for a third
day, heading for a third weekly gain, on dollar sales by the
central bank and  oil companies .  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer appreciated
0.2 percent to 157.9 per dollar as of 10:27 a.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, rising 0.6 percent this week. A close at
this level would be the highest since Nov. 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The currency’s performance has been underpinned by recent
strong dollar sales by oil companies” and “continued foreign
exchange sales by the Central Bank of  Nigeria ,” Ridle Markus,
Dumisani Ngwenya and Mike Keenan, Johannesburg-based Africa
analysts at  Absa Capital , wrote in a note to clients today.  Nigeria has  sold $600 million  at two foreign-currency
auctions this week, the largest amount sold in five days by the
central bank since October. The bank offers dollars at twice-
weekly auctions to maintain exchange rate stability. The oil
industry is the next major source of dollar supply to lenders
after the central bank.  The central bank would like to keep the exchange rate
stable while boosting foreign-currency reserves, Governor Lamido Sanusi said Jan. 31. Reserves reached $35 billion as of Feb. 13,
the highest level since Sept. 12, according to central bank
data.  “Should oil prices and production remain firm and fiscal
expenditure is contained, reserve accretion will continue,” the
Absa analysts said. “Against this backdrop and considering that
monetary policy remains relatively tight, the naira is likely to
be well supported in the near-term.”  Ghana ’s cedi strengthened for a second day, gaining 0.2
percent to 1.7013 per dollar as of 9:24 a.m. in Accra, the
capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  