-- UPS’s $6.4 Billion TNT Express Bid Rejected as Companies Remain in Talks
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-02-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/tnt-express-board-rejects-unsolicited-6-4-billion-ups-bid-as-talks-go-on.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  is
pressing ahead with talks to buy  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  after Europe’s
second-largest package-delivery company rejected a $6.43 billion
takeover offer.  The “highly conditional” bid of 9 euros a share, 42
percent more than yesterday’s closing price in Amsterdam, was
turned down by TNT’s supervisory and executive boards, the
Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based company said in a statement. UPS
confirmed that discussions were continuing.  “This is a low enough offer that UPS could write a check
for it in a heartbeat,” said  Kevin Sterling , a BB&T Capital
Markets analyst in Richmond, Virginia. “The euro keeps
weakening and TNT’s position keeps weakening, so TNT isn’t
exactly negotiating from a position of strength here.”  Acquiring TNT would extend the European reach of Atlanta-
based UPS, which is already the world’s largest package-delivery
company. TNT was spun off from Dutch postal operator TNT NV in
May, and the former parent, now named  PostNL NV, (TNTE)  retains 29.9
percent of the company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The UPS bid valued TNT at 1.04 times total assets, compared
with a median multiple of 0.58 in 33 acquisitions of
transportation services companies in Western  Europe  in the past
10 years, Bloomberg analysis shows. The 42 percent premium
compares with an average of 15 percent in more than 270 deals in
the same period.  Takeover Speculation  A bid by UPS or  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  has been the subject of
speculation for years as the U.S. companies study expansion in
Europe, and TNT’s  American depositary receipts  jumped 55
percent, the most since the spinoff, to $12.57 yesterday in New
York.  UPS was unchanged at $76.76, while FedEx, the operator of
the world’s largest cargo airline and No. 2 in package
deliveries behind UPS, slid 2.1 percent to $92.99.  TNT rose 2.6 percent to 6.34 euros yesterday in Amsterdam,
before the talks were disclosed.  The announcement of the offer to TNT and ongoing talks
about a deal spurred  Standard & Poor’s  to put UPS, including the
company’s AA- corporate rating, on “Creditwatch” for a
possible downgrade.  “We believe the transaction would strengthen UPS’s market
position, especially in Europe,” S&P said in a statement.
“However, we believe that UPS’s credit metrics have limited
room for deterioration at the current rating.”  ‘Opportunistic Bids’  For TNT, UPS’s offer reflects the European company’s
undervaluation after the spinoff, creating an opening for “one
of the most opportunistic bids of the decade,” said James Rasteh, president of New York-based White Eagle Partners LLC,
which he said holds a TNT stake of less than 1 percent.  Fair value for the stock would be more than 15 euros a
share, Rasteh said in an interview.  “This merger would put UPS in an undisputed leadership
position in Europe,  China ,  Russia ,  Brazil  and  India  -- all of
which have higher structural growth potential than  North
America ,” he said.  Spokesmen for PostNL, TNT’s largest investor, and Jana
Partners, the third-largest, declined to comment.  TNT posted a net loss of  97 million euros  for the first
nine months of 2011 compared with a profit of 62 million euros a
year earlier. TNT is in the midst of a 50 million-euro program
to reduce “indirect costs” and plans to report full-year
earnings on Feb. 21.  The company cut its 2011 target operating margin for
Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa to 8 percent to 9 percent in
October from an earlier target of 9 percent or more. UPS hasn’t
posted an annual loss since going public in 1999 and ended the
third quarter with $4.13 billion in cash and near-cash items.  Feb. 11 Offer  UPS’s offer, made Feb. 11, was revised and increased
following discussions with TNT, the company said in a statement.
Peggy Gardner, a UPS spokeswoman, declined to comment beyond the
statement.  “It absolutely makes sense for UPS to consider a ‘low-ball
bid’ for TNT Express, especially with the euro down versus the
dollar,” said Jeff Kauffman, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach
in  New York .  Would-be suitors are unlikely to pay a price in the mid-
teens right now, Kauffman said. He recommends buying the shares,
as does BB&T’s Sterling.  FedEx would benefit more from a purchase of TNT because its
Europe market share is smaller, according to  Lee Klaskow , a
Bloomberg Industries analyst in Skillman, New Jersey.  Jess Bunn, a spokesman for  Memphis , Tennessee-based FedEx,
declined to comment, citing a company policy against discussing
“corporate development matters.”  UPS completed the purchase this week of Brussels-based
delivery firm Kiala to bolster operations in Belgium,  France ,
the Netherlands,  Spain  and Luxembourg, and the company has done
several so-called bolt-on acquisitions in recent years, said
Thompson Davis’s Campbell, who recommends buying UPS and FedEx.  “UPS is in Europe for the long term, and it would take
them years to duplicate what TNT already has,” Campbell said.
“In the meantime TNT isn’t going to go away as a competitor and
would be fighting back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  