-- Obama Advisers See U.S. Economy Gaining Strength in 2012
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-02-17T21:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/obama-advisers-see-u-s-economy-gaining-strength-in-2012.html
President  Barack Obama ’s advisers
expect the  U.S. economy  will gain strength this year and add 2
million jobs, according to an annual White House report to
Congress.  Though the economy is hampered by lingering impediments
from the collapse in housing prices and the 2008 financial
crisis, the report forecasts “an upturn in economic growth”
this year as the recovery “will continue to gain strength.”  Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, said in a conference call that employment
growth “has gained momentum” in recent months.  A “plausible range” for the average  unemployment rate 
this year would be between 8 percent and 8.6 percent, the report
said, citing private forecasters.  The rate, the main economic indicator for voters and in the
political debate, dropped to 8.3 percent in January, the lowest
level in nearly three years.  The report and the administration’s chief economist,
rebutting Republican criticism of Obama’s handling of the
economy, defended the president’s response to the recession he
confronted upon taking office.  “The actions of the administration were extremely
important to bringing the recession to an end and putting us on
an upward trajectory,” Krueger said.  The report said the financial crisis of 2008 caused a
plunge in the economy unlike other post-World War II recessions
in the U.S.  Better Than Typical  Policies, including the 2009 economic stimulus, have
allowed the country to do better than is typical of countries in
the aftermath of a financial crisis, the report said, citing
research by economists  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff .  If the U.S. had followed the path of the average country
following a financial shock, the  unemployment rate  would have
been 10.4 percent last month instead of 8.3 percent, the report
said. The calculation is based on the aftermath of financial
crises in 14 countries since 1977 identified by Reinhart and
Rogoff.  The “breadth and speed” of the stimulus and interventions
by the  Federal Reserve  are “the main reasons why the economy
avoided a steeper and more prolonged decline,” the report said.  The report also drew favorable comparisons to the
recoveries following the 1990-91 and 2001 recessions. Private-
sector job growth began earlier in the current recovery than it
did after those two recessions, the report said.  ‘Reassuring’ Path  Krueger said “it’s very reassuring to see that we’re on a
path similar” to the rebounds after those recessions, both of
which were criticized at the time as “jobless recoveries.”  The aftermath of the housing bubble and 2008 financial
crisis have continued to restrain the growth of  consumer
spending  and  home construction  that are typical of U.S. economic
recoveries, the report said.  The pace of the recovery “would in all likelihood be
faster” if not for “the lingering effects of the financial
crisis,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  