-- Obama Should Decline to Nominate the Next World Bank Boss: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-17T00:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/obama-should-decline-to-nominate-the-next-president-of-world-bank-view.html
As soon as the  World Bank  confirmed
Wednesday that  Robert Zoellick  will step down as president this
summer, the tussle over who should succeed him began.  The Obama administration, abiding by a decades-long custom,
says it expects to name the replacement. That custom has
outlived any semblance of propriety. The White House should
think again.  For seven decades it was accepted that a U.S.-nominated
American would lead the World Bank and a European backed by
 Europe ’s main powers would head the  International Monetary Fund .
This cozy arrangement, always lacking in legitimacy, was once
defensible as a practical matter.  It’s telling that nobody any longer even attempts such a
defense. The arrangement is rightly seen as an affront to
Brazil,  China ,  India  and the other fast-growing developing
economies. It’s also inimical to the very idea of international
cooperation on terms of mutual respect -- and not just for the
countries excluded from any say in the matter.  Bending to this nearly universal view, both institutions
now pay lip service to the idea of an open, merit-based
selection process. Supposedly, guidelines to provide for that
are in place. Over the next few weeks you can expect the World
Bank to make a display of going through those motions, just as
the IMF did last year when  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  had to quit as
its managing director.  Nonetheless, the recently appointed head of the IMF,
Christine Lagarde, just happens to be French, and after the
announcement that Zoellick was leaving, U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  promptly said, “In the coming weeks, we plan
to put forward a candidate with the experience and requisite
qualities to take this institution forward.”  In whose judgment would that be? Officials have been quoted
as saying that U.S. National Security Advisor Thomas Donilon and
White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew -- not previously noted for
their expertise in international aid and development -- would
lead the search.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , former Obama economic
adviser Larry Summers and Geithner himself are widely discussed
as possible replacements. All are exceptionally competent, and
have far more relevant experience than the picks of some
previous U.S. administrations. But it should go without saying
that many extremely able candidates are available for the  World
Bank  job who don’t happen to be American. To exclude them at the
outset is indefensible.  Obama should see this as an opportunity not just to appoint
an excellent new leader of the World Bank but also to start a
new chapter in global economic governance. A genuinely open,
merit-based selection not managed by White House officials would
announce a shift from a model in which the U.S. and Europe
preside over lesser nations, to one of more equal partnership.
Obama, more than any other recent U.S. president, has said he
subscribes to that vision. Here’s his chance to prove it.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 