-- Obama Reports Raising $12 Million Last Month for Campaign
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-02-17T23:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/obama-reports-raising-12-million-last-month-for-re-election.html
President  Barack Obama  raised $12
million for his re-election campaign last month, according to
disclosures filed today with the Federal Election Commission.  The figure includes $2.5 million transferred from a joint
fundraising account with the  Democratic National Committee . He
has now raised $140 million for his re-election, and entered
February with $76 million in the bank.  Including money raised for the party at events featuring
the president, Obama took in $29.1 million last month. Obama’s
major fundraising events solicit donations for both his re-
election campaign and the DNC.  The biggest contributors to Obama’s campaign last month
were employees at the Debevoise & Plimpton LLP law firm, who
gave a total of $49,100, according to a Bloomberg News computer-
assisted analysis of FEC data. The firm was hired last year to
lobby by the Private Equity Growth Capital Council, a
Washington-based trade group for such firms as  Blackstone Group
LP (BX)  and KKR & Co., both based in New York.  Employees of New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  contributed
$15,739, Obama’s biggest corporate source of donations last
month. Mountain View, California-based  Google Inc. (GOOG)  employees
donated $11,021. Former New York Knicks player Allan Houston,
now the team’s assistant general manager, contributed $5,000, as
did actor-director Rob Reiner.  Fundraising Swing  The president is wrapping up a West Coast fundraising
swing, where he is expected to take in more than $8 million for
his campaign and the  Democratic Party . Today’s calendar included
two Washington State events expected to bring in at least $1.6
million, a luncheon at the home of  Costco Wholesale Corp. (ORCL)  co-
founder Jeff Brotman and his wife, Susan, in Medina and a
reception in Bellevue.  Yesterday, Obama dined with about 70 people at the San
Francisco home of Nicola Miner, daughter of Oracle Corp. co-
founder Robert Miner, and her husband, novelist Robert Mailer
Anderson. Singer Al Green provided the entertainment.  Obama raised $37 million for his campaign, three times his
2012 amount, during the same period four years ago, when he was
competing for the Democratic nomination.  Earlier this month, he began encouraging supporters to
contribute to a political action committee backing him, a
reversal from 2008 when he shunned such outside groups.  Michael Malbin , executive director of the Campaign Finance Institute, a
Washington-based research group, said the fundraising decline
and the call for super-PAC donations could be related.  “This is the first time the president’s campaign has
fallen significantly behind its previous pace,” Malbin said.
“Perhaps that helps explain the president’s statements last
week encouraging the activities of the independent spending
super-PAC formed to support his re-election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 