-- Obama Chides Republicans as He Fills Coffers on West Coast
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-02-17T11:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/obama-challenges-republicans-while-filling-coffers-on-west-coast.html
President  Barack Obama  took aim at
Republican presidential candidates without citing any by name
during a three-day West Coast fundraising swing expected to
raise more than $8 million for his re-election campaign.  “These folks who are running for president,” Obama said
at a San Francisco fundraiser yesterday with approximately 2,500
people who paid at least $100 each. “Their philosophy is
simple: we are better off when everybody fends for themselves
and everybody plays by their own set of rules. I’m here to tell
them, they’re wrong.”  Obama’s re-election organization and a related Democratic
National Committee effort raised a combined $29.1 million in
January, his campaign said in a Twitter posting this morning.  During the middle leg of a trip that raised almost $4
million from  California  donors, Obama sought to position himself
as the defender of the middle class and Republicans as those who
would seek to destroy it.  “They want to go back to the days when insurance companies
could deny coverage, jack up premiums without any reason,” he
said. “They want to spend trillions of dollars more on tax
breaks for folks like me who don’t need it and aren’t asking for
it.”  Obama is pointing to signs that the economy is rebounding
as he seeks re-election with an  unemployment rate  that has been
at or above 8 percent for three years. Today he will go to a
 Boeing Co. (BA)  factory in  Washington  to promote his goal of doubling
exports to $3.14 trillion by 2015.  Today Obama will also attend a fundraising lunch with 65
people at the home of  Costco Wholesale Corp (COST)  co-founder Jeff Brotman and his wife Susan in Medina, Washington, and a
reception later in Bellevue, Washington. The two events expected
to bring in at least $1.6 million.  Biggest Prize  California is the biggest electoral prize in presidential
politics and Obama won there by 24 percentage points in 2008.
It’s also been the biggest source of cash for his campaign,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-
based group that tracks political money.  Obama listed the accomplishments of his first term,
including the health care overhaul, the auto bailout and the
repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell at a fundraising dinner yesterday
with approximately 70 people at the San Francisco home of Nicola
Miner, daughter of the  Oracle Corp. (ORCLE)  co-founder Robert Miner, and
her husband, novelist Robert Mailer Anderson. Tickets for the
dinner cost $35,800.  California Economy  Singer Al Green performed his 1971 hit, “Let’s Stay
Together” at the dinner. The song is on the campaign’s official
2012 playlist and Obama crooned the first line of the song at an
event at  New York ’s Apollo Theater last month.  “I took a chance at the Apollo and I’m not going to take a
change again,” he joked. Obama said after he gets re-elected he
“might go on tour with the good reverend, be his opening act.”  Earlier yesterday Obama addressed 125 people who paid at
least $2,500 per person to attend a luncheon at the Corona Del
Mar, California, home of Jeff and Nancy Stack. He is the
managing director of Irvine-based developer Sares-Regis Group.  California was hit hard by the recession. The state’s
 unemployment rate  was 11.1 percent in December, compared with
the national rate of 8.3 percent in January.  That won’t cool enthusiasm for Obama in the state, said Ari
Swiller, an adviser to Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, a
Democrat. California Democrats will be mobilized by issues such
as vows by the Republican presidential candidates to repeal the
health care overhaul, he said.  ‘See the Reality’  “I don’t see any drop off at all, as people are getting
more focus on it and starting to see the reality,” Swiller said
in an interview.  Obama raised about $3 million for his campaign at two Feb.
15 fundraisers at the Los Angeles estate of soap opera producer
Bradley Bell and his wife, Colleen.  After speaking to approximately 1,000 people at a concert
featuring the rock band the Foo Fighters Obama attended an 80-
person dinner co-hosted by comedian Will Ferrell with celebrity
guests including  George Clooney  and Jim Belushi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  