-- Obama Says Export Aid Will Help U.S. Companies Compete
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-02-17T23:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/obama-pushes-export-aid-at-boeing-victory-lap-after-nlrb-clash.html
President  Barack Obama  promised to
boost support for U.S. manufacturers such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  that
face subsidized foreign competition as part of his drive to
increase exports.  Expanding on proposals he outlined in his State of the
Union address last month, Obama announced plans for Export-
Import Bank financing for U.S. companies for domestic as well as
overseas sales to match foreign competitors’ sources of official
funding.  The bank will give “American companies a fair shot by
matching the unfair export financing that their competitors
receive from other countries,” Obama said today at Boeing’s jet
factory in Everett, Washington, which has more than 35,000
employees.  Obama toured the Boeing plant, providing him with an
industrial backdrop for his manufacturing initiatives. Boeing
has 85 percent of its $296 billion jetliner backlog from buyers
outside the U.S., making the Chicago-based company pivotal to
Obama’s plan to double exports by the end of 2014. The aircraft
maker plans to increase commercial-jet production by more than
60 percent between 2010 and 2014.  The facility just north of  Seattle  is where Boeing builds
wide-body jets. Erected in 1967, it remains the world’s biggest
building by volume and houses the production lines for the 747
jumbo jet, 767, 777 and the new 787 Dreamliner, which was
Obama’s backdrop. Air Force One, the presidential 747, was
assembled there.  Boeing a Symbol  “The president has embraced U.S. manufacturing, and Boeing
is an iconic symbol of U.S. success,” said  Harley Shaiken , a
labor professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley.  The U.S. lost 1.9 million manufacturing jobs since December
2007, the start of an 18-month recession that was the worst
since the Great Depression.  “We can’t bring every job back,” Obama said. “But right
now, it’s getting more expensive to do business in places like
 China . Meanwhile American workers have never been more
productive, and companies like Boeing are finding out that even
when we can’t make things faster or cheaper than China we can
make them better.”  Obama also named two new members to the President’s Export
Council today. Gary Loveman, chief executive officer of casino
operator Caesars Entertainment Corp., and Denise Morrison, CEO
of Campbell Soup Co., are joining the advisory committee.  Assembly Line  Obama spoke at the end of the 787 assembly line. He was
given a tour of the factory and then appeared to a crowd of
hundreds of Boeing workers, stepping down to a stage on the
factory floor from a red-carpeted staircase leading from a 787
Dreamliner in the livery of United Continental Holdings Inc.,
which will be the first U.S. carrier to fly the plane.  David Eddines, 57, of Everett, a quality technician on the
787 Dreamliner assembly line, met the president during his tour
of the factory today with Boeing Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney and commercial-jet President  Jim Albaugh .  “I found it reassuring that he said America is going to
rebound,” Eddines said in an interview after Obama’s speech.
“There’s a lot of fixing that needs to take place. There’s a
lot of loopholes for companies taking work abroad.”  In his State of the Union speech, Obama called for a
program to provide credit to companies competing against foreign
counterparts that benefit from preferential credit from their
governments.  Foreign Competition  The administration will use existing authority “so that
the Export-Import Bank can provide U.S. firms competing for
domestic or third-country sales with matching financing support
to counter foreign non-competitive official financing that fails
to observe international disciplines,” the White House said in
a statement released in conjunction with Obama’s Boeing visit.  The duopoly in jetliner production shared by Boeing and its
larger European rival,  Airbus SAS (EAD) , is being challenged by new
competitors. Canada’s Bombardier Inc. and China’s Comac are
developing new single-aisle planes set to enter service this
decade that will compete with the 737 and the A320, the
workhorses of the airline industry.  John Kvasnosky, spokesman for Boeing Capital Corp., said
Obama’s move to increase Ex-Im support was a new initiative.  “We’re always encouraged about efforts to support U.S.
competitiveness, but we need to understand more about how it
would apply in our circumstances,” he said in an interview
before the president spoke.  Plan Critic  Chris Chocola, head of the anti-tax advocacy group Club for
Growth, said the aid would just create a “corporate welfare
slush fund” for companies with lobbyists, such as Boeing.  “Congress should end the federal bank of Boeing, and
instead promote more international trade through corporate  tax
reform  and lower tariffs,” Chocola said in a statement.  Obama also called for extending the lending authority of
the Ex-Im Bank, which may reach its $100 billion ceiling before
April. The bank, which is self-sustaining, provides financing to
U.S. exporters through loans, loan guarantees and payment
insurance. About 3,600 companies benefited last year from its
credit. Over the last three years the bank supported the export
of about 460 Boeing jets.  Boeing and the White House have numerous ties: McNerney is
chairman of the President’s Export Council;  William Daley  left
Boeing’s board to become Obama’s chief of staff;  John Bryson ,
also a Boeing director, became Obama’s Commerce secretary in
October.  NLRB Complaint  Boeing was targeted in a 2011 National Labor Relations
Board complaint that Republicans said showed the
administration’s hostility toward business. The case was dropped
after a new union accord helped pave the way for a planned
output boost at the biggest U.S. exporter.  “It is a love-hate relationship,” with the company and
the White House wanting and needing rapport yet clashing over
regulations, said  Gary Chaison , a labor professor at  Clark
University  in Worcester,  Massachusetts . “Boeing becomes
incredibly symbolic now after the troubles they’ve been through
with the NLRB.”  Obama is on the last day of a three-day trip in which he
also is raising money for his re-election campaign in California
and Washington state.  Fundraising Stops  He raised more than $6 million from California donors,
including money taken in at a fundraising dinner on Feb. 15 co-
hosted by actor  Will Ferrell  and attended by George Clooney.  Obama left the Boeing facility for a lunch with 65 people
at the home of  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  co-founder Jeff Brotman
and his wife, Susan, in Medina, Washington. Among those who
attended were  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Bill Gates .  Obama also is raising money at a reception later in
Bellevue, Washington. Ticket prices for the lunch cost $17,900
and ticket prices for the reception started at $1,000. The
campaign expects the two events to bring in at least $1.6
million.  Last month, Obama raised $12 million for his re-election
campaign, according to disclosures filed today with the  Federal
Election Commission . Counting money raised for the party at
events featuring the president, Obama took in $29.1 million last
month. Obama’s major fundraising events solicit donations for
both his re-election campaign and the Democratic National
Committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Everett,  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Everett, Washington at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  