-- Obama’s Export-Credit Plan Draws Praise, Criticism
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-02-17T23:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/obama-export-credit-plan-praised-called-corporate-welfare-1-.html
American manufacturers applauded
President  Barack Obama ’s plan to compensate them with credit to
offset the unfair financing given to competitors by their
governments while one critic labeled it “corporate welfare.”  Obama today unveiled a plan for the Export-Import Bank to
help combat foreign competitors’ sources of official funding, as
well as a program to ease access to credit for small-business
exporters. The announcement was made at a  Boeing Co. (BA)  factory in
Everett,  Washington , where eight out of every 10 planes go to
foreign airlines.  “I will not stand by when our competitors don’t play by
the rules,” Obama said.  The administration will use existing authority within the
bank’s charter to provide financing options for the first time
for U.S. firms competing for domestic sales with foreign rivals
whose countries have offered financial backing,  Fred Hochberg ,
the bank’s chairman, said in an interview in Seattle.
Previously, the institution had only offered financing for sales
outside the U.S.  ‘Level Playing Field’  “The principle is we need a level playing field,”
Hochberg said.  The  National Association of Manufacturers  praised Obama’s
plan, while the Washington-based  Club for Growth , which promotes
shrinking the government, said it produce more “corporate
welfare.”  The duopoly in jetliner production shared by Boeing and its
larger European rival, Airbus SAS, is being challenged by new
competitors. Canada’s Bombardier Inc. and  China ’s Comac are
developing new single-aisle planes set to enter service this
decade that will compete with  Boeing 737  and the  Airbus A320 ,
the workhorses of the  airline industry .  U.S. exporters, including Boeing and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , have
been pushing for reauthorization and expansion of the lending
ceiling of the bank, which is nearing its limit. The companies
last week lobbied more than 100 lawmakers to push for raising
the lending limit 40 percent to $140 billion. They say failure
to act will cost jobs.  “This obviously broadens the number of transactions we
will consider, so yes, it certainly might require us having
greater capacity” than what’s already been requested, Hochberg
said.  Export Goal  Jay Timmons , the chief executive officer of the National
Association of Manufacturers, said Obama’s plan could help
companies reach the president’s goal of doubling exports.  The Club for Growth disagreed, saying it will “distort
trade” and provide handouts to big business. Obama should
instead lower tariffs and reform corporate taxes to make U.S.
producers more competitive, the group said in statement. The
Export-Import Bank has too much power selecting winners and
losers in the private sector, the group said.  “It is nothing more than a corporate welfare slush fund
for companies with the best lobbyists, and Boeing has led the
pack,” Chris Chocola, president of the group, said in the
statement.  Hochberg countered that the bank’s Transport Finance unit,
which includes Boeing planes as well as  business jets  and
helicopters built by other companies, makes up just 40 percent
of the annual authorization amount.  In his State of the Union speech, Obama called for a
program to provide credit to companies competing against foreign
counterparts that benefit from preferential credit from their
governments.  Boeing ‘Encouraged’  “We’re always encouraged about efforts to support U.S.
competitiveness, but we need to understand more about how it
would apply in our circumstances,” John Kvasnosky, a spokesman
for Boeing Capital Corp., said in an interview at the Boeing
factory before Obama spoke.  Boeing currently can offer guarantees for bank debt or
commercial debt by the U.S. Export-Import Bank for airlines
struggling to find financing.  Regulations restrict where governments can offer
guarantees. For two decades, the U.S. and  Europe  have maintained
an informal agreement that bars countries where Boeing and
Airbus planes are built from providing guarantees to local
carriers. To prevent unfair competition, guarantees also cannot
be offered in the market of the rival manufacturer.  Self-Sustaining  The bank, which is self-sustaining, provides financing to
U.S. exporters through loans, loan guarantees and payment
insurance. It has committed about $90 billion and will probably
reach its $100 billion limit by the end of next month, according
to the White House.  The Export-Import Bank authorized $32.7 billion in
guarantees in the year that ended in September. The lending
serves as a part of Obama’s effort to double U.S. exports to
$3.14 trillion.  The Senate Banking Committee in September backed the 40
percent increase in Ex-Im bank lending limit. A House Financial
Services Committee panel in June approved a measure to increase
the cap over three years to $160 billion. The full House and
Senate haven’t taken up the legislation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  