-- Odyssey Marine Must Hand Over 1804 Shipwreck Treasure to Spain, Judge Says
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/odyssey-marine-ordered-to-hand-shipwreck-treasure-to-spain.html
Odyssey Marine Exploration Inc. (OMEX)  was
directed to start turning over to Spain a 17 ton-haul (15,400
kilograms) of treasure and artifacts from a Spanish warship it
discovered five years ago in the Atlantic Ocean.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Mark Pizzo in Tampa, Florida,
yesterday ordered Odyssey to return the treasure from Nuestra
Senora de las Mercedes to Spanish custody on Feb. 24. A federal
appeals court last year affirmed the dismissal of Odyssey’s
claims for ownership of the wreck’s cargo.  Spain claimed the Mercedes was a Spanish Royal Navy Frigate
that exploded and sank in combat in 1804, according to the Sept.
21 ruling by the U.S. appeals court in Atlanta. As Spanish
sovereign property, the ship is immune to claims made in the
U.S.,  Spain  argued.  Melinda MacConnel, general counsel for Tampa-based Odyssey,
didn’t immediately return a phone call to her office after
regular business hours yesterday seeking comment on today’s
order.  The Mercedes, loaded with 900,000 silver pesos, 5,809
golden pesos and about 2,000 copper and tin ingots, was part of
a convoy taking treasure to Spain from  Peru , then still a
Spanish viceroyalty, when it was intercepted by a British
squadron one day from arriving at the Spanish port of Cadiz.  Secret Agreement  Spain needed the treasure to pay France under a secret
agreement and  Great Britain , which was at conflict with France,
had informed Spain that it considered the financial support of
 France  as grounds for attacking Spain, according to the
appellate court ruling.  When the Spanish convoy refused to surrender, a sea battle
ensued and the Mercedes exploded after only a few minutes.
Odyssey, which searches for sunken treasure, discovered the
remains of the ship on the bottom of the Atlantic about 100
miles west of the Straits of Gibraltar and recovered about
595,000 coins.  In December 2009, U.S. District Judge Steven D. Merryday in
Tampa backed Spain’s position that the court had no jurisdiction
over it under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, and
dismissed the case that Odyssey Marine had brought. Merryday had
said Odyssey could hold the property while it pursued its
appeal.  Odyssey had argued the ship isn’t entitled to sovereign
immunity because it was “primarily on a commercial voyage when
it sank, and therefore should not be considered as a
‘warship.’” More than 70 percent of the coins never belonged to
Spain, the company has said.  The case is Odyssey Marine Exploration Inc. v. The
Unidentified Shipwrecked Vessel, 07-cv-614, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of  Florida  (Tampa).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 