-- Oil Trades Near Six-Week High
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-02-17T08:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/oil-trades-near-six-week-high-on-u-s-economy-optimism-over-greek-aid.html
Oil rose for a third day as signs of
an improving U.S. economy and progress on a bailout for  Greece 
bolstered the outlook for fuel demand.  Futures increased as much as 0.6 percent and are poised for
the biggest weekly gain this year after U.S. jobless claims
dropped to the lowest level since 2008. European governments are
considering lower  interest rates  on emergency loans to Greece
and using European Central Bank contributions to plug a
financing gap for the second bailout, two people familiar with
the discussions said.  “For the next few months, the demand side for the oil
market should be getting better,” said  Tetsu Emori , a Tokyo-
based commodity fund manager at Astmax Ltd. who predicts oil
will reach $145 a barrel in  New York  and  Brent crude  will climb
to $155 in  London  by the end of the year. “Oil demand in Europe
is not that strong due to uncertainty over Greece. After the
resolution of the issues, the economic situation of developed
countries will be in better shape,” said Emori, who helps
manage $390 million at Astmax.  Crude for March delivery rose as much as 64 cents to
$102.95 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at
$102.84 at 4:01 p.m. Singapore time. Prices yesterday rose 51
cents, or 0.5 percent, to $102.31, the highest close since Jan.
4. They are up 4.2 percent this week, the most since the period
ended Dec. 23, and have gained 19 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for April settlement rose 25 cents to $120.36 a
barrel on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The contract
yesterday jumped $1.18, or 1 percent, to $120.11 a barrel, the
highest close in eight months. The premium to West Texas
Intermediate for the same month was at $17.38, compared with a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  ‘Main Driver’  Crude in New York has technical resistance along the upper
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This indicator is around $102.82 a barrel today. Sell
orders tend to be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  Oil may rise next week on concern that shipments will be
disrupted by tension between Iran and the West over the
country’s nuclear program, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Fifteen of 37 analysts, or 41 percent, forecast oil will climb
through Feb. 24. Twelve respondents, or 32 percent, predicted
prices will decline and 10 estimated there will be little change.  “The main driver of the market is Brent, which potentially
has more lift to the upside due to supply-side risks,” said
Emori. Daily volumes in options granting the right to buy Brent
for more than the current market price have risen above 25,000
on four days during the past two weeks in New York, signaling an
increase in bets on a possible price rally.  Threats From Iran  Iran  said Feb. 15 it was cutting crude shipments to  France 
and the Netherlands, and had loaded locally built fuel plates
into its nuclear research reactor in Tehran, according to
reports by the state-run Mehr news agency and Press TV. The EU
decided last month to halt purchases from Iran starting July 1
in an attempt to halt its nuclear program.  Iran will increase the volume of oil it ships to China
“soon,” state-run Mehr news agency reported yesterday, citing
an unidentified official at National Iranian Oil Co.  In the U.S.,  applications  for unemployment payments dropped
by 13,000 in the week ended Feb. 11 to 348,000, the Labor
Department said yesterday. The claims were less than the most-
optimistic estimate of 45 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Progress in Greece  Greece expects euro area finance ministers to approve a
second aid package at a meeting on Feb. 20, according to
Pantelis Kapsis, a government spokesman. Overcoming the final
obstacles may enable finance ministers to approve the 130
billion-euro ($170 billion) lifeline and a bond exchange with
private investors that are critical to staving off a Greek
default in March, the German finance ministry told coalition
lawmakers in Berlin yesterday, three officials said.  Oil prices are rising on demand from Asian countries,
including  China , the world’s second biggest crude consumer,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Most blame geopolitics for the latest spike, and we don’t
quibble with that,”  Frederic Neumann , co-head for Asian
economic research at the bank in  Hong Kong , said in a report
today. “But fundamentally,  Asia ’s huge appetite for crude is
providing the backdrop.”  China’s crude imports increased 7.4 percent from a year ago
to 23.41 million metric tons in January, a record high,
according to preliminary data from Beijing-based General
Administration of Customs on Feb. 10. Final figures are
scheduled to be released on Feb. 21.  “As prices continue to climb, a number of economies, such
as  India ,  Korea  and  Thailand , could feel the pinch,” Neumann
said. “While waiting out this Greece thing, keep an eye on
oil.”  Saudi Arabian Oil Co. plans to re-open the Damman oilfield,
the company’s oldest, and produce there for the first time in 30
years in response to “tight market conditions,” the Economist
Intelligence Unit reported yesterday. Officials at Aramco’s
headquarters in Dhahran,  Saudi Arabia , didn’t answer phone calls
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Anderson at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  