-- Crude Oil Rises to Nine-Month High Amid Optimism on U.S. Economy, Greece
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-02-17T21:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/oil-set-for-biggest-2012-weekly-gain-on-u-s-economy-greek-aid-plans.html
Oil climbed to a nine-month high in
 New York  as signs of an improving U.S. economy and progress on a
bailout for Greece bolstered the outlook for fuel demand.  West Texas Intermediate crude rose 0.9 percent to cap a
weekly gain of 4.6 percent as the index of U.S. leading
indicators advanced in January for a fourth month. Germany’s
government signaled that finance ministers may be ready to
support a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) rescue for Greece.  “We’ve had a strong week and there’s strong upward
momentum,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research
at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “The headlines
are what’s driving this market and if they point to a better
economy, prices will rise. It looks like a Greek deal is going
to finally get done.”  Oil for March delivery rose 93 cents to $103.24 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement price
since May 10. The gain capped the biggest weekly advance since
Dec. 23.  Brent oil for April settlement dropped 53 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $119.58 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract touched $120.70, the highest level
since June 15, before slipping. Brent’s premium to April WTI
narrowed $1.49 to $15.98 a barrel.  WTI touched $103.57 and is “approaching $103.74, the high
from early January, which is a tempting target,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in New
York. “Brent is retreating after taking out its old highs.”  Leading Indicators  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.4 percent. The New York-based
group revised its December change upward to 0.5 percent.  Applications (INJCJC)  for unemployment insurance payments in the
U.S. dropped 13,000 in the week ended Feb. 11 to 348,000, the
Labor Department said yesterday. The Commerce Department
reported yesterday that U.S. builders  broke ground  on more homes
than forecast in January and the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s  general economic index  rose this month.  “The  U.S. economy  is in better shape than had been
feared,” said  Eugen Weinberg , the head of commodities research
at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “The current price action is a
liquidity and investment-driven rally on the back of U.S.
economic sentiment and improving equity markets, fueled further
by fears of possible supply cutbacks.”  Conference Call  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  and Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  discussed a
second Greek bailout on a conference call and are confident that
euro-area finance ministers will “find a solution for open
questions” on Feb. 20, Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The European debt crisis that began in  Greece  has spread to
Ireland, Portugal, Italy and Spain.  U.S. fuel demand dropped to the lowest level for January in
17 years, the  American Petroleum Institute  said. Total
deliveries of petroleum products fell 5.7 percent to 18 million
barrels a day from January 2011. Use of ultra-low-sulfur diesel,
the type used on highways, climbed 4.6 percent. Gasoline use
dropped 0.2 percent.  “The U.S. economy is looking pretty strong and a lot of
people are looking for demand to trend along higher, but that
has yet to happen,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York. “Consumer preferences changed
when gasoline prices surged in 2008 and automakers responded by
making more efficient vehicles. Gasoline is still expensive and
consumers would rather spend their money on something else.”  Iran Concern  Oil may rise next week on concern that shipments will be
disrupted by tension between  Iran  and the West over the
country’s nuclear program, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Fifteen of 37 analysts, or 41 percent, forecast oil will climb
through Feb. 24. Twelve respondents, or 32 percent, predicted
prices will decline and 10 said there will be little change.  Iran seeks negotiations about its nuclear program at the
“earliest possibility,” the country’s top nuclear negotiator,
 Saeed Jalili , wrote in a Feb. 14 letter to the EU’s foreign
policy head  Catherine Ashton . U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Ashton, after meeting at the State Department in
Washington, said they and allies are reviewing the letter to
determine next steps.  Daily volumes in Brent crude call options above the market
price have risen above 25,000 on four days during the past two
weeks in New York, signaling an increase in bets on a possible
price rally.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 679,422
contracts as of 3:19 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 660,975
yesterday. Open interest was 1.48 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  