-- Tang Refuses Calls to Quit H.K. Chief Bid
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2012-02-17T04:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/hong-kong-leader-contender-tang-apologizes-as-illegal-basement-hurts-image.html
Henry Tang , a leading candidate to
be  Hong Kong ’s next chief executive, refused calls to withdraw
from the race amid growing criticism over an illegal basement
built at a property owned by his wife.  Tang, a former chief secretary, late yesterday apologized
to Hong Kong residents at a packed press conference after
newspapers carried front-page stories on the basement, built
without approval, which they said included a wine cellar and a
theater. Tang's spokeswoman today said he wouldn't withdraw.  Hong Kong’s next leader will be chosen by a 1,200-member
election committee next month. Tang trails Leung Chun-ying by
more than 20 percentage points in public-opinion polls and has
been criticized for being out of touch at a time when  rising
property prices  and inflation are stoking growing discontent
among Hong Kong’s middle class.  “The smartest thing for Tang to do is to pull out of the
race, or else it will bring disaster,” said Cheung Chor-yung,
senior teaching fellow in public administration at the  City
University  of Hong Kong, who is also one of the voters in the
March 25 selection. “Most Hong Kong people won’t accept a
person who is not honest and incapable of handling crises.”  Regina Ip, the city’s former secretary for security and a
lawmaker, said today she didn’t believe Tang was suitable to
lead the city, and she would consider standing in the poll.  Tang won’t consider a withdrawal, Lucy Chan, spokeswoman at
Tang’s campaign office, said in a phone interview today.  Marital Issues  Late yesterday, Tang said his wife was responsible for the
construction of the basement, and he had not intervened in the
decision because the couple had been having marital issues at
that time. Tang in October said he was forgiven by his wife for
a transgression, after the Eastweek magazine published an
interview in which the couple were questioned about speculation
he had an affair.  “My wife proposed to build this basement,” Tang said. “I
know this is an illegal structure, but back at that time we were
at a low tide in our marriage and we had communication problems.
I feel regret and guilty about it.”  Hong Kong newspapers today carried photos of chaotic scenes
outside the property in the city’s Kowloon Tong district,
showing photographers and cameramen in cranes attempting to
capture pictures of the residence. Apple Daily and Mingpao Daily
News said the 2,000-square-foot basement also included a Japanese
bath and gymnasium. More than 90 percent of private homes in
Hong Kong are smaller than 100 square meters (1,076 square feet),
according to a report by the government’s Ratings and Valuation
Department in 2011.  “The chief executive hopeful has given the impression that
he has not been telling the truth as the fiasco continues to
unfold,” the South  China  Morning Post, Hong Kong’s leading
English newspaper, said in its editorial today. “Once again, he
has counted on his wife to defuse the bombshell.”  Full Cooperation  Tang said he will “fully cooperate” with the government
to remove the illegal structures at the property.  Hong Kong’s next chief executive will be picked by an
election committee, made up of the city’s richest men,
professionals and representatives from China. Tang, Leung and
lawmaker Albert Ho are all seeking to get at least 150
nomination votes by the end of the month to stand for election.  Tang was financial secretary before becoming the second-
highest ranked official in the city of 7 million residents. His
father is Tang Hsiang Chien, who was ranked the 40th-richest
person in Hong Kong in 2010 by Forbes Magazine. The younger
Tang’s best-known policy success was to abolish duties on wine
in 2008, helping the city overtake  London  and  New York  as the
world’s biggest wine auction market.  Trailing Leung  Leung, a policeman’s son and former government adviser, has
public support of 49.2 percent for the chief executive job,
according to a survey published on Feb. 13 by the University of
Hong Kong’s Public Opinion Programme. Tang trails with 26.1
percent approval. The poll of 1,000 residents had a margin of
error of less than 3 percentage points.  Since the former British colony was returned to China in
1997, the  income of the poorest  10 percent of the city’s
families has fallen 13 percent. Earnings for the richest 10
percent rose 6.3 percent.  Tang is seen to represent businesses, whereas Leung is more
popular as he’s seen to be “more reform-oriented, is more
willing to challenge existing interests,”  Joseph Cheng , a
professor in political science at the  City University of Hong
Kong  said earlier this month.  “If Tang refuses to withdraw from the race, he will bring
the biggest headache to Beijing,” City University’s Cheung said.
“If Tang can still be elected as the chief with all these
scandals, it really shows the ridiculousness of this small-
circled election. Now Leung stands a better chance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  