-- Monti Bonds Gain as Merkel, Sarkozy Busy
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2012-02-17T12:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/monti-bonds-gain-as-merkel-sarkozy-busy-at-home-euro-credit.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
is emerging as a game-changer in Europe’s debt crisis as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  tackles a domestic political crisis and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  focuses on his re-election bid.  Monti, who has repeatedly criticized  Germany  and France for
first violating European fiscal rules, was scheduled to meet
alone in  Rome  today with Merkel, chief powerbroker in the debt
crisis and head of Europe’s largest economy. The meeting, first
set for Jan. 20 with Sarkozy, was rescheduled without him and
then canceled today as German President  Christian Wulff  resigned
amid the threat of a legal probe into corruption allegations.  “Monti is extremely important because Italy is really the
make-or-break country in the euro crisis,”  Christian Schulz , an
economist at Berenberg Bank in  London , said in a telephone
interview. Monti has “re-established Italy as an important
force in European politics.”  Monti will hold a three-way telephone conversation today
with Merkel and Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , his office
said in an e-mailed statement. Monti and Merkel will also stay
“in close touch” before euro-area finance ministers meet in
Brussels on Feb. 20, his office said. The ministers may approve
a new rescue package to help Greece avert the euro area’s first
sovereign default.  A former EU competition commissioner who leveled a record
fine against Microsoft Corp., Monti took over as premier from
 Silvio Berlusconi  on Nov. 16 after investors lost confidence in
 Italy ’s ability to cut the world’s fourth-biggest debt. Monti
embarked on an overhaul of the Italian economy that, along with
the  European Central Bank ’s unlimited three-year loans to banks,
has helped send Italian yields plunging from euro-era records.  Falling Yields  Since Monti’s arrival, Italian 10-year yields have declined
about 1.4 percentage points to 5.62 percent after hovering for
about two months at the 7 percent level that led Greece, Ireland
and Portugal to seek rescues. One gauge of the “Monti effect”
is the narrowing of the  yield difference  between Italian and
Spanish 10-year bonds, which also benefited from ECB lending.
The gap shrank to 35 basis points from 202 at the start of 2012.  Italy would have had to pay an extra 8.1 billion euros in
financing costs over the past seven months if its bond yields
had remained near the levels of Nov. 30, when the 10-year yield
was at 7.02 percent,  Riccardo Barbieri , an economist at Mizuho
International Plc in London, said in an e-mail. The 10-year now
yields 372 basis points more than comparable German bunds, down
from 518 on Nov. 16.  White House  Monti’s unelected government of non-politicians has kept a
pledge by Berlusconi to erase the budget gap in 2013, pushing
through 20 billion euros ($26 billion) in tax increases and
spending cuts as well as measures aimed at spurring anemic
Italian growth through deregulation and reducing red tape. His
efforts won him an invitation to the White House for talks with
President Barack Obama last week and a Time magazine cover story
headlined, “Can This Man Save  Europe ?”  “Monti is clearly keen to reassert a degree of authority
for Italy within the euro zone, which his disastrous predecessor
had tossed away,”  Marc Ostwald , a strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in London, said in an e-mail. Sarkozy is “in no
position to do anything other than fight the election, leaving
euro-zone governance issues to be dealt with once the election
is over, a situation neither Germany nor Italy” can allow.  Today’s Talks  Monti, who is also finance minister, will host talks today
in Rome with Canadian Finance Minister James Flaherty.  Canada 
and the U.S. have so far opposed giving the International
Monetary Fund more resources to devote to Europe’s debt crisis,
an idea supported by European leaders.  A week after taking office, Monti met with Merkel and
Sarkozy in Strasbourg,  France , where he publicly criticized
Germany and France for violating EU budget rules in 2003. He has
since pushed Merkel to help nations like Italy and Greece offset
the impact of austerity measures and asked the EU to make
economic growth a formal priority alongside fiscal virtue.  Monti “has been a game-changer,” restoring “credibility
to Italy’s government” at a critical time for Europe, said
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
London. He’s pushing for a “quid pro quo from Germany: more
confidence-building measures to shore up the euro in exchange
for ambitious reforms at home.”  With Greece veering toward default amid disagreement among
creditors over a rescue package, Monti escalated his criticism
in remarks to the European Parliament on Feb. 16, saying Athens
was being put under unbearable strains. He again pointed to
previous German and French violations of EU deficit rules in
pushing for more comprehension for  Greece .  ‘Resentments’  “The very tough approach being taken toward Greece today
may lead us to regard this as being excessive, and it probably
is,” Monti said, warning “resentments” fueled by the crisis
risked breaking apart the 27-nation EU. “There are no good guys
and bad guys. We all need to feel jointly responsible.”  While Merkel has praised Monti for his “remarkable
measures,” she was less charitable when asked about enjoining
growth and fiscal discipline as a cornerstone of EU policy.  “I’m still looking for what more we should do,” she told
reporters in Berlin on Jan. 18. “When I have figured that out,
I will tell you what it is.”  Still, Monti’s role in Europe’s crisis debate is growing as
Sarkozy digs into his re-election battle while trailing in the
polls and Merkel risks being distracted from the crisis by the
resignation of Wulff. She will now have to find a fresh
candidate from among her allies for the largely ceremonial post.  Monti’s next challenge is to make good on a pledge to
overhaul Italy’s rigid labor market by the end of March. His
ability to see that through, while ensuing lawmakers don’t
dilute his earlier measures on deregulation and red tape, may
decide whether his government lasts to the end of the current
legislature in spring 2013.  That effort will also help determine whether Italian bond
“yields can revert on a permanent basis to lower levels, which
will in turn help to achieve the  budget surplus  that is needed
to start bringing down Italian government debt to a sustainable
level,” Ostwald said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  