-- Top Cyclists Ride ‘Wave’ to Set New World Records at Olympic Velodrome
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-02-17T16:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/top-track-cyclists-ride-wave-to-set-records-at-london-olympic-velodrome.html
The  Olympic Velodrome  hosted its
first world record on the second day it was open to top riders.  The building in  London ’s Olympic Park in the eastern part
of the city is hosting the  UCI Track Cycling World Cup  until
Feb. 19. The event has attracted five Olympic champions
including Britain’s Chris Hoy, and 16 world champions.  Track cycling has grown in popularity in Britain since the
country took seven of the sport’s ten medals at the 2008 Beijing
Games. All of the 25,000 tickets to the World Cup’s six sessions
were sold out in half an hour.  “It’s like a wave following you around,” Britain’s Steven
Burke told reporters, when asked about the atmosphere in the
Velodrome, which has a double-curved roof. Burke won a bronze in
Beijing in the individual pursuit.  Australia ’s Kaarle McCulloch and Anna Meares today set the
first world record. The world champion pair beat  Lithuania ’s
Gintare Gaivenyte and Simona Krupeckaite in a women’s team
sprint qualifier over two laps in 32.828 seconds. That beat
Australia’s previous world record of 32.923 seconds set in
Copenhagen in 2010. The pair will race Britain in the evening
session today for the gold medal.  “It felt really nice,” McCulloch said. “Personally, I’ll
be better tonight. I was a little nervous as it was the first
one.”  ‘Very Fast’  The 250-meter (820-foot) track, drawn up by Australian
track designer Ron Webb and made of 56 kilometers of Siberian
pine, is “very fast,” Liang Jing of China told reporters.  The crowd in the 6,000-seat arena roared whenever British
cyclists took to the track, which was installed by 26 specialist
carpenters over a period of eight weeks.  “It was a wall of noise the whole time, and it was only
qualifying in a test event,” Edward Clancy, a team pursuit gold
medalist in Beijing for Britain, told reporters. “I cannot
imagine what it will be like in the Olympics. It was mental. We
had to keep a lid on our emotions.”  “It’s a very round track,” Sarah Hammer of the U.S., a
four-time world champion in individual pursuit, said. “You’re
on full gas all the way around.”  The  World Cup , which provides riders with an opportunity to
qualify for the London Olympics which start on July 27, is also
serving as a test event for the London Olympic organizing
committee.  ‘In the Event’  “When you’re inside the velodrome, the lights are great
and you’re so close to the cyclists,” said Fabien Renard, a 40-
year-old visiting from Paris. “It’s great. You’re in the event.
And I’m not even a big cycling fan.”  Having a dress rehearsal that involves 340 riders from 48
nations and 18 teams across a four-day competition is
“incredibly valuable” for Olympics organizers, Debbie Jevans,
director of sport for the local organizers, said in an
interview.  With 161 days to go before the Games, organizers will test
the track, athlete facilities, results, timing and scoring
systems. It’s also a dress rehearsal for a workforce of 1,000
people.  The track cycling competition is the 13th test event out of
24 in total held before the Games. The diving test event will be
held Feb. 20-26 at the Aquatic Centre, which is located a short
walk from the Velodrome.  “What we didn’t want to do was to have the athletes, or
the media or the spectators, turn up and having to worry about
stuff,” Jevans said. “So by ensuring that we run the test
events, we can learn from those and come the Games, we know we
are going to get it absolutely right.”  Unbelievable  Although the track is fast, British Cycling performance
director Dave Brailsford played down expectations of another
record cycling medal haul for Britain in London.  “What we did in Beijing was stratospheric and I think the
passage of time will show that that was unbelievable,”
Brailsford said in comments e-mailed by British Cycling earlier
this week.  “It’s a great thing to have done and we wouldn’t change
it. But for people who are on the outside looking in, they just
look at it and think it’s an automatic thing - that we just rock
up and win. Of course it’s not like that. Olympic sport is the
only sport where you use a four-year time frame to judge form.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Olympic Velodrome through the London
sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Elser at  at  celser@bloomberg.net  