-- Morgan Stanley, Goldman Move Away From Mark-to-Market on Loan Commitments
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-02-17T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/morgan-stanley-goldman-move-away-from-mark-to-market-on-loan-commitments.html
Morgan Stanley increased its use of
historical cost accounting for corporate loan commitments,
joining  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in moving away from the mark-
to-market approach the firms had earlier used.  Morgan Stanley raised the amount of loans and lending
commitments that it accounted for as “held for investment,” or
HFI, to  $9.7 billion  in the fourth quarter from $800 million a
year earlier. Goldman Sachs decided to make the change to some
of its corporate loan book, the Wall Street Journal reported
yesterday, citing people familiar with the matter.  Both New York-based firms had losses on relationship
lending last year and face differing treatment from regulators
between HFI and fair-value commitments. Fair-value accounting
often requires firms to book losses on the commitments, even if
they aren’t tapped by the borrowers, while commercial bank
competitors avoid mark-to-market declines by holding the
commitments at historical cost.  “We are still fanatical believers in mark-to-market,”
Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said on a
conference call with analysts last month. “Substantially all of
our assets today are mark-to-market. Our risk is managed on a
mark-to-market basis. And whatever we conclude on what I’ll call
a very small portion of assets, just relationship lending, those
statements will still be true.”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  had about $400 million of losses in the
third quarter from corporate lending, the majority of which is
unfunded commitments. Goldman Sachs had  $1 billion  in unrealized
losses related to relationship lending for 2011.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to comment on
whether the firm made a decision on the accounting treatment.  ‘Onerous’ Treatment  Consideration of the change was also being driven by “more
onerous capital treatment” of mark-to-market commitments
compared to similar HFI assets, Viniar said. Fair-value loans
“were penalized substantially more than HFI loans,” in the
 Federal Reserve ’s annual review of banks’ capital plans, Morgan
Stanley CFO Ruth Porat said last month.  Morgan Stanley is working to increase lending as it gains
more deposits through buying Citigroup’s remaining stake in the
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney brokerage, which had $110.6 billion
in deposits as of Dec. 31. Total corporate loans and commitments
rose to  $82.9 billion  at the end of 2011 from $69.1 billion a
year earlier.  “Fundamentally, we are a mark-to-market shop,” Porat said
last month. “As it relates to the loan book, we obviously have
a bank. We’re the fifteenth-largest U.S. depository by deposits,
and so we’re always considering what makes sense in terms of
capital and funding efficiency.”  Commercial banks helped fight off a proposal last year from
the  Financial Accounting Standards Board  that sought to make
them mark loans to market. The panel sets U.S. accounting
standards.  Goldman Sachs told Norwalk, Connecticut-based FASB during
the comment period for that proposal that banks hide losses on
loans used to generate investment-banking fees and should be
required to report the loans at fair value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  