-- Moroccan Immigrant Charged With Attempted Suicide Bombing at U.S. Capitol
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/moroccan-immigrant-charged-with-attempted-suicide-bombing-at-u-s-capitol.html
A Moroccan immigrant was charged
with attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction in a suicide
bombing at the U.S. Capitol.  Amine El Khalifi, 29, of Alexandria,  Virginia , was arrested
yesterday in a parking garage near the Capitol after meeting
with an undercover agent posing as a member of an armed
extremist group, according to an affidavit filed with a criminal
complaint in federal court in Alexandria.  El Khalifi was taken into custody as he began walking
toward the Capitol carrying a MAC-10 automatic weapon and
wearing a vest containing what he believed to be a functioning
bomb, according to the affidavit by Steven Hersem, an agent of
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation . The weapons had been made
inoperable by investigators, prosecutors said.  “El Khalifi allegedly believed he was working with al-
Qaeda and devised the plot, the targets and the methods on his
own,” U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride of Alexandria said in an e-
mailed statement.  He faces a maximum sentence of life in prison if convicted.  At a hearing yesterday in Alexandria, El Khalifi was
ordered to be held pending a preliminary and detention hearing
scheduled for Feb. 22, according to  Peter Carr , a spokesman for
MacBride.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters he wasn’t aware of the arrest. House and Senate
members were at the Capitol yesterday to pass an extension of a
payroll tax cut.  ‘Suspected Terrorist’  “Thanks to the hard work of the FBI and the U.S. Capitol
Police a suspected terrorist was thwarted in his attempt to
attack the U.S. Capitol today,” House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , Republican of Virginia, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  The arrest resulted from an undercover terrorism
investigation during which El Khalifi was “closely monitored by
law enforcement,” according to a Justice Department statement.  El Khalifi entered the U.S. in June 1999 on a tourist visa
that expired later that year. He has lived in the U.S. illegally
since then, according to the affadavit.  In January 2011, the FBI learned through a confidential
informant that El Khalifi met with other individuals at a
residence in Arlington, Virginia, where one person brought out
firearms, including an AK-47 assault rifle. That person said the
“war on terrorism” was a “war on Muslims” and that the group
needed to be ready for war, according to the affidavit. El
Khalifi allegedly expressed agreement with those statements.  Al-Qaeda Operative  In December, El Khalifi traveled to Baltimore with an
individual known as “Hussien,” who claimed to be an al-Qaeda
operative, to meet someone whom he believed was associated with
an armed extremist group. That person, who went by “Yusuf,”
was an undercover  law enforcement  officer, FBI agent Hersem said
in the affidavit.  El Khalifi allegedly told Hussien and Yusuf on at least
three occasions that he wanted to attack various sites,
including an office building used by the U.S. military and a
synagogue. He also said he was interested in an operation in
which he would use a gun “and kill people face to face,”
according to the affidavit.  On Dec. 15, he allegedly told Hussien he’d found a
restaurant in Washington that he wanted to bomb because it was
next to a government building, according to the affidavit.  “It was El Khalifi’s understanding that his attack on the
restaurant would be part of an al-Qaeda operation that would
include both his restaurant bombing and the attack against a
military installation,” Hersem wrote.  Test Explosives  On Jan. 15, El Khalifi allegedly drove to a West Virginia
quarry with Hussien to meet with Yusuf and test explosives.
During the drive, the suspect told Hussien that he wanted to
conduct a suicide bombing on the Capitol and that he would be
happy killing 30 people, according to the affidavit.  Later, he said “he wanted a bigger bomb to do more damage,
and asked if the explosives he intended to use could destroy the
entire building,” according to the affidavit.  El Khalifi and the informant conducted surveillance on the
Capitol and discussed the door he would use for the attack,
according to the affadavit.  “El Khalifi stated that he would shoot the police officer
stationed at the door to ensure that he would be able to
detonate the bomb inside the building,” Hersem wrote.  The case is U.S. v. El Khalifi, 12-mj-00087, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 