-- Expert Networker, BofA, HSBC, JPMorgan, J&J in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-02-17T13:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/mortgage-probe-bank-of-america-exxon-mobil-j-j-in-court-news.html
John Kinnucan, the  Broadband
Research  LLC founder who said he refused to secretly record a
money manager in a U.S. probe of insider trading, was arrested
in Portland, Oregon, the FBI said.  Federal Bureau of Investigation agents arrested Kinnucan at
his home yesterday, Elizabeth Steele, an FBI spokeswoman in
Portland, said in an e-mail. Steele said Kinnucan was in the
Multnomah County Jail awaiting his initial appearance today
before a federal judge.  “There is no further information that I can give to you at
this point,” she said.  Peter Donald, a spokesman in the FBI’s  New York  office,
said he expected Kinnucan to be arraigned today in Portland and
eventually be brought to New York to face prosecution. He said
the charges are under seal and he couldn’t discuss the case
further.  At least 10 agents wearing FBI jackets arrived at
Kinnucan’s home at 4:19 p.m. yesterday, said a neighbor, who saw
the arrest and didn’t want to be identified because she knows
the family. Kinnucan, wearing a T-shirt and blue jeans and with
his arms handcuffed behind his back, was led away from his house
minutes later by the agents, the neighbor said.  Federal prosecutors in New York previously disclosed in
court papers that they had a court-authorized wiretap on
Kinnucan’s mobile phone.  Kinnucan, 54, whose public refusal of an FBI request to
wear a wire presaged a dozen insider-trading arrests, said in a
July 8 interview that he expected to be arrested.  “Am I a target? Yeah, absolutely,” Kinnucan said in the
interview. “There’s a saying that the government indicts who
they investigate, so I have always assumed that I was a
target.”  Kinnucan, who ran the expert networking firm, denied he
ever received illegal tips on companies, and insisted the kind
of information he provided hedge fund clients was publicly
available.  Kinnucan’s calls were recorded in talks with Donald
Longueuil, a former SAC portfolio manager, and Level Global
Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson, said prosecutors in
the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Longueuil was sentenced in July to 2 1/2 years in prison
for his role in an insider-trading scheme. Chiasson pleaded not
guilty Feb. 14 to conspiracy and securities-fraud charges in
federal court in Manhattan.  The probe is the biggest insider-trading investigation in a
generation, one that has implicated hedge funds, technology
firms and expert networking firms such as Broadband Research.  More than 60 people have been charged with insider trading
in the five-year probe called “Perfect Hedge” by the FBI in
New York and by Bharara’s office.  Nathaniel Burney, a New York lawyer who has represented
Kinnucan, said in a phone interview this week that he is no
longer his defense lawyer. The identity of Kinnucan’s current
attorney couldn’t immediately be determined.  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pre-trial  Madoff Trustee May Struggle to Undo HSBC Ruling, Lawyers Say  The liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s firm asked an appeals
court to reinstate $30 billion of his claims against banks
including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.   Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  filed arguments in a federal
appeals court in New York on why district judges Jed Rakoff and
 Colleen McMahon  were wrong in barring him from demanding damages
from the banks, which include  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  He is
challenging two similar rulings made on “solid legal ground,”
said  Peter Henning , a former Securities and Exchange Commission
lawyer who teaches at Wayne State University in Detroit.  Rakoff in July threw out almost $9 billion in damages that
Picard demanded from HSBC and feeder funds, saying the trustee
can’t sue on behalf of customers, using common-law claims
against parties who had an alleged duty to detect Madoff’s
fraud. Picard demanded $19 billion in damages from the con man’s
banker, JPMorgan, which McMahon also dismissed.  “The chances are not good for turning around a ruling on a
matter where the court has substantial discretion,” said
Michael Clark, a lawyer with Duane Morris LLP in Houston who
specializes in financial fraud and has handled appeals. “He has
to show the court misapplied the law in a way that’s beyond a
discretion call. Rakoff is a very bright judge, and he sets out
clearly why he’s ruled.”  “The district court’s holding is erroneous,” Picard said
in his filing in the HSBC case.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment on the lawyers’ views that overturning the
judges’ rulings would be hard. She has previously said Picard
remains confident of his right to make the claims against the
banks.  JPMorgan said it didn’t know about the fraud, or in any way
participate in it, and couldn’t be held responsible for a scheme
orchestrated by Madoff alone.  HSBC faulted Picard for his theory that the bank had
obligations to all Madoff investors and should have probed the
fraud. HSBC wasn’t the “watchman” for all the con man’s
investors and didn’t owe them any duty, a lawyer for the London-
based bank said at a court hearing before Rakoff last year in
Manhattan.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in North Carolina.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Bank Mortgage Probes Will Proceed, New York and Delaware Say  State and federal officials will aggressively investigate
misconduct in the bundling of mortgages into securities
following a settlement with banks over foreclosure abuses, the
New York and Delaware attorneys general said.  The $25 billion agreement announced last week was crafted
to allow further probes of banks to proceed by states and
federal agencies, including inquiries into possible criminal
violations, New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  and
Delaware’s  Beau Biden  said yesterday.  “We are all committed to pursuing real investigations for
all the areas that we are still able to investigate,
specifically and most importantly on the securitization side,”
Biden said in an interview. “You’re going to see a real effort
on our part and the New York attorney general to pursue the
securitization pieces of this to wherever it takes us.”  The Justice Department in January announced the formation
of a joint state-federal group that will investigate misconduct
that led to the financial crisis through the bundling of
mortgage loans into securities sold to investors. The group is
led by officials from the Justice Department, the Securities and
Exchange Commission and Schneiderman’s office.  The group will share resources and information,
Schneiderman said in a remarks yesterday at a breakfast
sponsored by Crain’s New York Business. Schneiderman and Biden
have been cooperating in an investigation of bank mortgage
practices.  The $25 billion settlement reached with Charlotte, North
Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. , New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co ., New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , San Francisco-based
 Wells Fargo & Co . and Detroit-based  Ally Financial Inc (ALLY) . will
provide mortgage relief to homeowners and sets requirements for
how the banks conduct foreclosure and service loans.  The banks in return were granted liability releases
protecting them from certain claims. Biden and Schneiderman said
the releases are narrowly tailored to allow further
investigations of bank practices.  For more, click here.  Bank of America Seeks to Block CEO Deposition in MBIA Suit  Bank of America Corp.  asked a New York state judge to block
the deposition of Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  in a
fraud lawsuit brought by  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , a court filing showed.  The nation’s second-biggest lender, based in Charlotte,
North Carolina, asked New York state Supreme Court Justice
Eileen Bransten in Manhattan to issue a protective order against
the deposition, according to a proposed order to show cause
filed Feb. 15.  “We have moved for a protective order because a chief
executive officer of a major corporation may only be deposed
when he or she has unique information that is not available
through other means.” Bank of America spokesman Lawrence
Grayson said yesterday in a statement. “The discovery process
remains fully available to MBIA, including through the numerous
current and former executives that MBIA will be deposing.”  The proposed order to show cause asks Bransten to order
MBIA to explain why a protective order against the deposition
shouldn’t be issued. The motion for the protective order wasn’t
immediately available in court records.  MBIA, which sued Countrywide in 2008, guarantees payments
to investors that bought securities backed by pools of the
lender’s loans. The insurer says the loans were riskier than
Countrywide promised, and as they defaulted, the Armonk, New
York-based company was forced to make payments.  William Sushon, an attorney at O’Melveny & Myers LLP who
filed the proposed order to show cause, didn’t immediately
respond to messages seeking further comment. Manisha M. Sheth,
an attorney with  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP  who is
representing MBIA, didn’t immediately return a telephone message
left at her office.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 602825-2008, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Exxon Valdez Judge Refuses to Rule Against More Damage Claims  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  failed to persuade a federal judge to bar
the U.S. and Alaskan governments from pursuing further damage
claims related to the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill.  U.S. District Judge H. Russel Holland in Anchorage refused
Feb. 15 Exxon’s request to enforce a 1991 agreement under which
the Irving, Texas-based company paid $900 million to settle
claims over damage to the environment.  “Exxon presently suffers no particular harm,” Holland
wrote in the order. “Its business is not in any fashion
disrupted or impeded because of the uncertainty of a claim by
the governments.”  The Exxon Valdez tanker ran aground in 1989, dumping 11
million gallons of oil into Prince William Sound. Exxon agreed
in 2009 to pay $470 million in interest on a $507.5 million
judgment won by local victims of the spill, including fishermen
and small businesses. That was in addition to the $900 million
civil settlement.  The civil settlement contains a reopener clause that allows
governments to pursue additional damages.  “The possibility of a reopener claim has been ‘on the
table’ since the consent decree was finalized,” Holland wrote.  Oil from the spill is still trapped between layers of sand
on the Alaskan shoreline, according to a study published in
Nature Geoscience in 2010.  The case is United States of America v. Exxon Corp. 3:91-
cv-0082, U.S. District Court, District of Alaska (Anchorage).  BTA Bank Ex-Chairman Gets 22 Months in Prison for Contempt  Mukhtar Ablyazov, the former chairman of Kazakhstan’s BTA
Bank, was sentenced to 22 months in a U.K. jail for breaching a
court-ordered freeze on his assets and lying under oath in a $5
billion fraud lawsuit.  The violations were “deliberate and brazen” and require
that Ablyazov be placed in immediate custody, Judge Nigel Teare
said yesterday in  London . Ablyazov, who fled to Britain to
escape prosecution in his home country, failed to appear at the
hearing. BTA’s lawyer said the ex-banker may be fleeing again.  “Mr. Ablyazov has lied to his own lawyers and lied to this
court,” Stephen Smith, a BTA lawyer, said before the
sentencing. “He has had plenty of opportunities to tell us the
truth and has continually evaded doing so.”  BTA, the biggest Kazakh lender before defaulting on $12
billion of debt in 2009, filed a series of civil suits against
Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko
claiming they took more than $5 billion from the Almaty-based
bank using fake loans, back-dated documents and offshore
companies. Both men have denied the claims.  Lawyers for BTA, which restructured its debt after being
nationalized, said Ablyazov violated a 2009 court order by
failing to reveal all his assets, including a house in the
British countryside and a London mansion, each valued at 20
million pounds ($31.6 million), two apartments in the U.K.
capital worth 1 million pounds each, and an offshore firm that
allegedly carried out a $300 million fraud against the bank.  Ablyazov’s lawyer, Duncan Matthews, said he didn’t know his
client was planning to skip the hearing and there’s no reason to
believe he’s fleeing the country. Teare denied his request to
delay sentencing so he could advise Ablyazov on “the
consequences of his course of action.”  “The judgment should serve as a signal to Mr. Ablyazov’s
associates that the full force of the law will be pursued to
ensure court orders are obeyed,” Nikolay Varenko, a deputy
chairman at the bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  A call to Ablyazov’s spokesman, Locksley Ryan of RLF
Partnership Ltd. in London, wasn’t answered and an e-mail didn’t
receive an immediate response.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  U.K. FSA Arrests Legal & General Employee in Trading Probe  A Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. employee was
arrested in London and three premises were searched as part of
the U.K. markets regulator’s highest-profile insider-trading
investigation.  The man was released on bail after he was interviewed under
caution at a London police station, the Financial Services
Authority said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The FSA and
the Serious Organized Crime Agency searched an office and home
in London and a residence in Kent, an area southeast of the
British capital.  “A 44-year-old man employed by Legal & General Investment
Management was arrested on 16 February and released on bail
pending further enquiries,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are not aware of any detriment caused to
customers or any impact on our financial results.”  The case relates to an insider-trading investigation where
employees from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Exane BNP Paribas and Moore
Capital Management LLC were arrested in March 2010. Those
questioned include Julian Rifat of Moore Capital, Deutsche
Bank’s Martyn Dodgson, Exane’s Clive Roberts, Novum Securities
Ltd.’s Graeme Shelley and Iraj Parvizi, a director at Aria
Capital Ltd. No one has been charged in the case.  The FSA conducted further searches in April 2011 and
arrested someone at the time, the regulator said yesterday.  The agency is probing whether the men used knowledge of
upcoming securities sales to engage in the front running of
block trades, generally on behalf of a corporate client, to
generate a profit for themselves. The case is codenamed
Tabernula, Latin for “little tavern.”  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford Operations Run by CFO Davis, Not Boss, Manager Says  R. Allen Stanford left daily operating decisions to his
finance chief, who volunteered to “lay himself off” for a
$650,000 lump-sum payout as regulators were closing in on the
company in February 2009, a former manager testified.  “We were in the midst of a crisis, and I told him it would
look strange if we lay off our global CFO,” Joan Stack, former
global human resources manager at  Stanford Financial Group , said
she told finance chief James M. Davis. “He was the person I
felt made the day-to-day decisions.”  Davis replied that he would “stay behind the scenes” and
continue running the firm, Stack told jurors yesterday in
federal court in Houston at Stanford’s criminal fraud trial. In
exchange for appearing to step aside, Davis asked for an upfront
payment of 65 percent of his 2009 salary, she said.  Davis made this proposal “at a very fast-moving time”
when “cash flow problems” were causing Stanford’s firm to
cancel 2008 year-end bonuses and lay off half its employees,
Stack testified. “We were trying to get to a point where costs
would be reduced to the point the organization would survive,”
Stack said.  Jurors previously heard Davis testify that Stanford was the
mastermind and prime beneficiary of an alleged $7 billion
investment fraud centered on what the government claims were
bogus certificates of deposit at Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd.  Prosecutors accuse Stanford of skimming more than $2
billion of investor deposits to finance an extravagant lifestyle
and risky ventures ranging from Caribbean airlines and real
estate development to cricket tournaments. Investors were told
their funds were kept in safe, liquid assets rather than
speculative ventures.  Davis pleaded guilty to his role in the alleged scheme and
testified as a government witness in the trial, now in its
fourth week. “Follow the money,” Davis told jurors, pointing
across the courtroom at Stanford.  Stanford, 61, denies wrongdoing in connection with the
alleged investment fraud. If convicted of the most serious
charges against him, he faces as long as 20 years in prison. He
has been jailed as a flight risk since being indicted in June
2009.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Merger Suits Often Mean Cash for Lawyers, Zero for Investors  A shareholder lawyer told a Delaware judge at a midsummer
court hearing two years ago that his team deserved $700,000 for
work on a lawsuit in which his clients received nothing.  Shareholders of BJ Services Co., an oilfield-services
company now owned by Baker Hughes Inc., claimed its sale to the
former parent would undervalue their holdings. The settlement of
the case gave investors “crucial” data such as performance
projections for five more years, Shane T. Rowley of  Faruqi &
Faruqi LLP  told the judge, seeking to justify the legal fees.  “I can’t think of fruit that’s closer to the ground,”
Chancery Court Judge John W. Noble responded. Still, the judge
awarded Rowley and his colleagues $500,000 for their efforts.  Scenarios like the one played out at the July 2010 hearing
in Wilmington are common in the Delaware court, the chief U.S.
venue for mergers and acquisitions suits, Bloomberg News’ Ann
Woolner, Phil Milford and Rodney Yap report. Of 57 such investor
class actions settled or otherwise concluded there in 2010 and
2011, 40 -- or 70 percent -- made money for plaintiffs’ lawyers
but not clients, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  “The greatest benefit is for the plaintiffs’ attorneys”
in such litigation, said John C. Coffee Jr., a Columbia
University professor who teaches securities law.  None of the 10 cases that New York-based Faruqi & Faruqi
helped to settle during the two years produced cash for clients,
according to court records. Legal fees in those 10 cases totaled
$6 million, split among plaintiffs’ firms.  Overall, lawyers won $32.4 million for themselves in the 40
cases that generated no money for clients. The lowest legal fee
award was $150,000; the highest was $4 million. The median came
to $512,500, according to the data.  The 17 M&A lawsuits that resulted in cash for clients
produced $350 million for the shareholders. The largest, a Del
Monte Foods Inc. case, gave plaintiffs $89.4 million. Of that
amount, attorneys were paid $22.3 million.  Even without consistent monetary awards, such lawsuits let
shareholders scrutinize transactions and gain changes in terms,
according to defenders of M&A litigation. Deal-makers, knowing
their work will be closely evaluated by lawyers, produce fairer,
more transparent transactions as a result, he said.  The “policing” effects of litigation have “real value,”
Bernard Black, a Northwestern University law and finance
professor who co-wrote an academic study of the Delaware courts,
said. That “might well justify the money we throw at
plaintiffs’ lawyers.”  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  R.J. Reynolds, Philip Morris Win Federal Jury Trial in Florida  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA and R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco Co. won a defense verdict in a wrongful-death case filed
by the widow of a smoker who died of lung cancer, Altria said.  A jury in federal court in Jacksonville, Florida, returned
the verdict for the companies yesterday on the first day of
deliberations, Altria said in a statement. The trial was the
first federal trial of thousands of so-called “Engle” tobacco
injury claims.  Virginia Gollihue claimed her husband, Manuel Gollihue,
died from lung cancer at age 53 after smoking at least two packs
a day of the defendants’ cigarettes for almost 38 years. His
illness and death were caused by his addiction to nicotine,
Virginia Gollihue claimed.  Gollihue’s suit was the first individual claim by a smoker
tried in a Florida federal court after the state’s supreme court
in 2006 threw out a $145 billion punitive-damage verdict against
the industry and ended a class action filed on behalf of Florida
smokers.  The ruling, which permitted smokers in the class to sue
individually, is known as the “Engle” decision, after Howard
Engle, the lead plaintiff in the case.  So far, smokers have won 40 of the 58 Engle verdicts in
state court trials, according to Edward L. Sweda Jr., senior
attorney for the Tobacco Products Liability Project, which
tracks the suits. Trials in federal court have been delayed by
pretrial appeals.  As of Feb. 13, Philip Morris faced 3,306 Engle cases in
Florida state courts and 3,238 in federal courts, according to
an Altria  Securities and Exchange Commission filing . Reynolds is
a defendant in 6,561 cases in state and federal courts combined,
it said in an  SEC filing .  The jury deliberated for 47 minutes before delivering its
verdict, according to Stephanie Parker, a partner with the  Jones
Day (1113L)  law firm who represented Reynolds in the trial.  In a separate case yesterday, a jury in Oregon state court
issued a $25 million verdict against Philip Morris in a lawsuit
by the family of a woman who smoked low-tar cigarettes and died
of lung cancer in 1999, said Chuck Tauman, the family’s
attorney.  The case is Gollihue v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 09-
CV-10530, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville).  J&J’s Risperdal Wasn’t Factor in Man’s Diabetes, Jury Rules  Johnson & Johnson ’s anti-psychotic drug Risperdal wasn’t a
substantial factor in causing a Nebraska man’s diabetes, even
though J&J failed to give an adequate warning to his doctor
about the drug’s risks, a  New Jersey  jury ruled.  Jurors in state court in New Brunswick, where J&J is based,
found by a 5-1 vote that the company didn’t adequately warn the
doctor for Gary Skala of the risk of diabetes. Because they
ruled 5-1 against Skala, 56, on the causation question, they
didn’t award him any damages.  Skala’s lawsuit was the first of more than 400 personal-
injury lawsuits over Risperdal to go to trial. J&J lawyers said
the company properly warned of the drug’s risks after its
introduction in 1994. They said Skala was an obese “couch
potato” whose disease was caused by his weight, his heavy
drinking, his sedentary lifestyle and other risks, not
Risperdal.  “The label was adequate, and the information was there,”
J&J attorney Jeffrey Peck told jurors Feb. 15 in his closing
argument. “Doctors used the medicine because it worked. In this
case, Dr. Skala’s doctors prescribed it and it saved his life.”  An attorney for Skala, Fletch Trammell, argued to jurors
that Risperdal was a “substantial contributing factor” in his
diabetes by helping to cause his obesity. While the drug may
have helped his mental illness, Trammell said, J&J’s Janssen
unit failed to warn Skala’s doctor of the diabetes risk.  Trammell said he was disappointed with the verdict, which
he called a “Pyrrhic victory.”  Teresa Mueller, a spokeswoman for J&J, the world’s second-
biggest health-products company, said in an e-mail: “We are
pleased with the jury’s decision to reject the plaintiff’s
claims. Since the early 1990s, Risperdal has improved the lives
of countless people throughout the world who suffer from
debilitating mental illnesses.”  The New Jersey case is Skala v.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , MID-
L-6820-06 (MT), Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division,
Middlesex County (New Brunswick).  For more, click here.  Motorola Solutions’ $200 Million Accord Tentatively Approved  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)  and a group of investors who sued a
corporate predecessor claiming it misled them about the
company’s prospects in 2006 won a U.S. judge’s tentative
approval of a $200 million settlement.  U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve yesterday preliminarily
signed off on the proposed agreement after hearing from the
parties’ lawyers at the federal courthouse in Chicago. She will
consider a motion for final approval on May 9, after class
members have had an opportunity to file objections.  In an August 2007 complaint,  Motorola Inc. (MMI) ’s then-Chief
Executive Officer Edward Zander and other executives were
accused of overstating the prospects of the company and its
mobile phone-making unit in the second half of 2006. By 2007,
Motorola was the world’s third-biggest mobile phone maker, down
from second-biggest.  Motorola Solutions and lawyers for the stockholders
announced the settlement agreement on Feb. 2.  The lead plaintiffs in the case are the Macomb County
Employees’ Retirement System and the St. Clair Shores Police &
Fire Pension System, both of Michigan.  The U.S. Justice Department on Feb. 13 approved Motorola
Mobility’s acquisition by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for $12.5 billion.  The case is Silverman v. Motorola Inc., 07-cv-4507, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 