-- Los Angeles Gasoline Tumbles After Valero Starts Refinery Units
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-02-17T21:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/los-angeles-gasoline-tumbles-after-valero-starts-refinery-units.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  tumbled by the most in three months after  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO)  started a crude unit and a coker at the Wilmington
refinery in  Southern California  following maintenance.  Carbob in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  fell for the first time in four days,
by 6 cents to a premium of 30 cents a gallon against gasoline
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:16 p.m.
East Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the largest drop for the fuel since Nov. 15.  Valero’s 135,000-barrel-a-day  Wilmington (VAWICRUD)  refinery has
started the crude and coker units following a maintenance
turnaround that began last month and is increasing rates, said
 Bill Day , a Valero spokesman at the company’s headquarters in
 San Antonio .  “Other units at the refinery have not begun restarting
yet,” Day said in an e-mail.  The premium for Carbob in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  also fell 6 cents
to 24 cents a gallon above gasoline futures, the lowest level
for the fuel in four days.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland, Oregon (MOGHD87P) ,
slipped 1.5 cents to a premium of 6.5 cents versus gasoline
futures. The fuel jumped 12.5 cents yesterday to the highest
level against futures since Jan. 5.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in San Francisco
strengthened 0.63 cent to a premium of 3.13 cents against Nymex
heating oil futures.  Houston-based  ConocoPhillips (COP)  may cut diesel output at the
128,000-barrel-a-day  Rodeo (CPACCRUD)  refinery in Northern California for
two and a half weeks while working on a hydrogen plant,
according to Contra Costa County regulators.  Los Angeles Carbob (DIEILCAD)  was unchanged at a premium of 4.5 cents
to Nymex heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  