-- Most-Hated Stocks Burn Short Sellers as Sears, Netflix Rally
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-02-17T21:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/most-hated-stocks-burn-short-sellers-as-sears-netflix-lead-s-p-500-rally.html
The companies investors  hated  the
most in 2011 have returned twice as much as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index this year, burning speculators who bet stocks
from  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  to Netflix Inc. would keep falling.  The 26 companies in the S&P 500 with the highest so-called
short interest relative to shares available for trading rallied
18 percent this year, compared with 8.2 percent for the full
index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Speculators who borrowed
Sears shares and sold them to profit from a drop got hammered as
the stock surged 72 percent. Netflix, with short interest of 17
percent at the end of 2011, rose 76 percent.  Banks, commodity and industrial companies, the only groups
to post losses last year, are leading stocks higher on signs the
 U.S. economy  is gaining momentum. That’s forcing speculators to
cut bearish wagers after pushing them to the highest levels
since the market bottomed in 2009, according to a survey by
International Strategy & Investment Group.  “It’s been a rotation back into fundamentally sound,
economically sensitive companies that had been unduly punished
in the second half of last year,” David Spika, who helps
oversee $13 billion as an investment strategist at Westwood
Holdings Group Inc. in  Dallas , said in a telephone interview.
“When the market turns, those shorts have to be covered and
that creates momentum.”  Investors are shifting toward companies most-tied to
economic growth as data on manufacturing, housing and jobs
bolstered optimism in the world’s largest economy and European
leaders stepped up efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Financials, Utilities  Financial stocks and commodity producers, the S&P 500’s
worst-performing industries in 2011, have climbed more than 11
percent this year. Utilities and phone companies have the only
losses among 10 groups in 2012 after rallying last year.  Analysts say bank and brokerage earnings will advance at an
average rate of 12 percent this year and in 2013, while
commodity profits may climb at the same pace, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Income growth in the  S&P 500  is
forecast to average 10 percent.  “Everyone was fearful last year, buying the safety of
dividends and predictable earnings,” said Gary Flam, who helps
manage $6.5 billion for Bel Air Investment Advisors LLC in  Los
Angeles . “That has reversed now that we’ve got solid economic
data and positive news flow out of  Europe . People are getting
more comfortable in picking better opportunities.”  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds, largely unregulated investment pools that aim
to make money whether markets rise or fall, have trailed the S&P
500 for the last four months, according to  data  compiled for
Bloomberg’s Active Index for Funds.  An ISI gauge of hedge-fund bullishness, which measures how
much they’re betting on rising shares, rose to 47.4 this week,
the highest level since Aug. 3. The gauge was at 42 at the end
of November, the lowest level since two weeks before the S&P 500
reached a 12-year low in March 2009. A reading below 50 suggests
a bias toward short bets.  “These hedge fund guys can’t seem to get a grasp on this
basket of stocks and getting the direction right,” said  Jason Cooper , who helps oversee $2.5 billion at 1st Source Investment
Advisors in  South Bend ,  Indiana . “This really put them behind
the eight ball.”  Equity valuations have been  stuck below  the historical
average since May 2010, the longest period since a 13-year
stretch beginning in 1973, as stock prices failed to keep pace
with profit growth. The S&P 500 trades for 14.1 times earnings
from the past 12 months, below the average of 16.4 since 1954,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Beating Projections  While S&P 500 companies are on pace to exceed analysts’
profit forecasts for a 12th straight quarter, earnings-per-share
have risen 4.9 percent for the 383 companies that reported since
Jan. 9, the slowest growth since 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “I don’t have a lot of faith in this rally continuing for
much longer,” said Scott Armiger, a  money manager  at Christiana
Trust in Greenville,  Delaware , which has $11 billion in client
assets. “There has been at least an equal amount of bad news as
has been good news.”  Sears, based in  Hoffman Estates ,  Illinois , was the most-
shorted equity in the S&P 500 in December, with bearish bets
reaching 38 percent of available stock as the shares plunged 56
percent in 2011. The largest U.S. department store chain
rebounded this year even as S&P and Moody’s Investors Service
cut its credit ratings on deteriorating sales.  Subscriber Revolt  Netflix (NFLX) ’s short interest amounted to 9.1 million shares at
the end of 2011 after the  Los Gatos , California-based company
slumped 61 percent during the year. The online and mail-order
video-rental service has advanced more than any other S&P 500
company this year as Netflix contained a subscriber revolt in
the fourth quarter and forecast improving margins for its
streaming business.  First Solar Inc., (FSLR)  the second-most shorted stock in the S&P
500 in December with speculators betting against 31 percent of
its shares, jumped 7.3 percent today after the biggest maker of
thin-film solar panels resolved a permitting issue with Los
Angeles County for a $1.36 billion power project under
construction. The Tempe, Arizona-based company is up 26 percent
this year.  Harris Corp. (HRS) , based in  Melbourne ,  Florida , has climbed 18
percent as the maker of military radios reported earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates for the 14th consecutive quarter. Its
short interest reached 13.1 million shares in December, or 11.4
percent of its total.  “It’s not just squeezing the short,” said Flam of Bel Air
Investment Advisors. “There are a lot of quality companies that
are also performing very well this year,” he said. “The pain
trade is higher. The risk today appears to be defined as missing
the next up move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  