-- OTP Gains, Paring Weekly Drop as Hungarian Stocks Advance
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-02-17T16:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/otp-gains-paring-weekly-drop-as-hungarian-stocks-advance-1-.html
  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, pared its weekly decline as the country’s stocks rose on
speculation that Greece will get a second bailout and Hungary
worked to obtain its own rescue.  The shares rose 1.9 percent to 3,945 forint by the close in
Budapest, paring losses this week to 0.8 percent. The benchmark
BUX stock index added 2.1 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Market Index rallied 1.1 percent as
investors anticipated a meeting of euro area finance ministers
next week will move toward a second bailout for Greece. Hungary
responded today to the European Commission on disputes which
have obstructed talks on  International Monetary Fund  and
European Union aid since last year in three areas including
monetary-policy independence.  “Mainly it is the rally on exchanges abroad which is
helping Hungarian markets,”  Akos Kuti , head of research at
Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., a Budapest-based broker, said by
telephone today. “Some very favorable news was received from
 Europe , particularly about the Greek rescue, that was clearly
what lifted markets.”  Signs that obstacles to Hungary’s own bailout will be
removed also supported the rally, Kuti said.  While Hungary expects further debate with the EU on its
central bank law, the Cabinet is willing to compromise on the
issue of the judiciary, state-run news service MTI reported late
yesterday, citing Deputy Prime Minister Tibor Navracsics.  “Hungary’s government left it late to reply to the EC’s
decision to start infringement proceedings,”  William Jackson , a
London-based emerging-market analyst at  Capital Economics , wrote
in a research report today. “But the fact that it has done so,
coupled with conciliatory comments from Prime Minister Orban,
has raised hopes that a deal with the EU/IMF can be reached
quickly. We remain more cautious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  