-- Totvs Eyes Acquisitions as Brazil Software Market May Expand 10%
-- B y   T a í s   F u o c o
-- 2012-02-17T18:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/totvs-eyes-acquisitions-as-brazil-software-market-may-expand-10-.html
Totvs SA (TOTS3)  (TOTS3) plans to buy specialist
information technology companies to attract small and medium-
sized clients as it bets  Brazil ’s software market will expand as
much as 10 percent this year, according to Chief Executive
Officer Laercio Cosentino.  “We want to be the best software-house option for foreign
companies arriving in Brazil and also for Brazilian companies
doing business outside the country,” Cosentino said in a Feb.
14 interview in Sao Paulo. “There is still a lot of space to
grow.”  Sao Paulo-based Totvs,  Latin America ’s biggest maker of
business-management software, aims to acquire small IT computer
program providers that target specific market niches, Cosentino
said, without naming particular industries. The company signed a
contract in January with Officer Distribuidora de Produtos de
Informatica SA to sell products targeted at small and medium-
sized businesses in Officer’s 12,000 retail outlets.  Only 15 percent of small and medium-sized companies in
Brazil, with between 10 and 499 employees, own a business-
management IT system, according to research firm Gartner Group
Inc.  There are 4.6 million companies with less than 10 employees
without management software, Cosentino said. Small and medium-
sized companies in Brazil are likely to grow 10 percent this
year, the same rate as the  software industry , compared with
gross domestic product growth of 4 percent, he added said.  Totvs currently has 26,000 clients, of which 700 are
outside Brazil. The company would finance acquisitions from its
own  cash flow  or with loans, Cosentino said.  The company posted a record profit of 60 million reais ($35
million) in the fourth quarter, as debt plummeted to 53 million
reais from a peak of 282 million reais at the end of 2008 after
its takeover of Datasul SA.  Totvs shares have  risen  5.5 percent since its quarterly
earnings were released on Jan. 31 through yesterday. That
compares with a 4.9 percent increase for Brazil’s benchmark
 Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taís Fuoco in  Sao Paulo  at 
 tfuoco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Telma Marotto at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net ; 