-- Congress Passes Extension of Payroll Tax Cut
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n ,   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/house-passes-extension-of-payroll-tax-cut-through-2012-by-vote-of-293-132.html
For the first time since Republicans
won control of the U.S. House of Representatives in November
2010, there isn’t a major fiscal policy bill requiring the
immediate attention of Congress.  A coalition of Democrats and Republicans in the House and
Senate voted yesterday to extend a payroll  tax cut  through the
rest of the year. For a Congress that has waged bitter fights
over the debt ceiling, spending cuts and the payroll tax break,
that means there are almost nine months before the next
significant fiscal questions must be addressed.  The 2001 and 2003 tax cuts expire on Dec. 31 along with the
payroll tax cut. In the lame-duck session that Congress is
expected to convene after the November election, lawmakers also
will have to decide the fate of the estate tax, other expired
tax breaks and whether to shield millions of Americans from the
spread of the alternative minimum tax.  Meanwhile, the U.S. will again approach the $16.4 trillion
debt ceiling late in the year and, unless Congress acts, a $1.2
trillion cut to defense and other spending will take effect in
January.  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the Senate’s third-ranking
Democrat, said yesterday he hopes the vote on continuing the
payroll tax cut will mark an end to the partisan battles over
the nation’s taxation and spending.  “It is very hard these days to pass legislation through
the Senate and through the House,” Schumer told reporters.
“But maybe we’re past the old days of ‘If I don’t get it all my
way, I’m going to block it from happening.’ That’s what
hopefully this is a sign of.”  Senate, House Passage  The Senate cleared the $145 billion payroll package
yesterday 60-36, just minutes after the House passed it 293-132.  In addition to extending a two percentage-point tax cut for
workers, the measure will continue expanded  unemployment
benefits  and avoid a cut in doctors’ Medicare reimbursements
through the end of this year. The provisions also would have
expired at the end of the month if Congress didn’t act.  Speaking at a  Boeing Co. (BA)  production facility in Everett,
Washington after the vote, President Barack Obama said Congress
“did the right thing.” The president is expected to quickly
sign the measure into law, said his spokesman,  Jay Carney .  In the House, 146 Republicans and 147 Democrats supported
the legislation while 91 Republicans and 41 Democrats voted
against it. Fourteen Senate Republicans joined 45 Democrats and
one independent in voting for the plan, while 30 Republicans,
five Democrats and one independent opposed it.  ‘Pretty Confident’  Senator  Ben Cardin  of Maryland, one of the Democrats to
oppose the bill, said he objected to asking federal workers to
help pay for expanded jobless benefits by increased
contributions to their pensions. He said in an interview he felt
“pretty confident” that Democratic leaders would oppose
additional efforts to tap government employees’ pay and benefits
to cover the cost of new spending or tax cuts.  Cardin’s Democratic colleague from  Maryland , Senator
Barbara Mikulski, also opposed the deal. Maryland’s Washington
suburbs have a high concentration of federal government workers.  “Both sides gave a little to get something done,” Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said before the chamber began voting
yesterday.  In negotiations led by Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican, and Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, both
parties made political sacrifices. Democrats agreed to health-
care cuts and a reduction in emergency unemployment benefits
while Republicans abandoned their insistence on covering the
cost of the full measure.  “We have to vote for this bill because it does a lot of
very important things,” Representative  Frank Pallone , a New
Jersey Democrat, said on the floor before the vote. “But I also
have to express my reservations.”  The measure is H.R. 3630.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  