-- How the U.S.-Iran Standoff Looks From Iran: Hossein Mousavian
-- B y   S e y e d   H o s s e i n   M o u s a v i a n
-- 2012-02-17T00:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/how-the-u-s-iran-standoff-looks-from-iran-hossein-mousavian.html
The past six U.S. presidents have
employed a policy of sanctions, containment and deterrence
against  Iran . Earlier in his tenure, President  Barack Obama 
tried to change course by offering instead to engage, stressing
“diplomacy without preconditions.” Two years later, however, the
talk in  Washington  is of an inevitable coming war.  This is entirely the wrong direction for the U.S. to be
taking. The consequences of a military strike on Iran would be
catastrophic for the U.S., Iran and  Israel .  Whether Iran should be able to build its nuclear program
cannot be dealt with separately from the larger issue of the
confrontational relationship that Iran and the U.S. have had
since the 1979 Iranian Revolution. In his recent memoir, former
International Atomic Energy Agency Director General  Mohamed ElBaradei  said he doubted policy makers in Washington were ever
truly interested in resolving the Iranian nuclear issue, but
that they sought instead to achieve isolation and regime change
in Iran.  Regardless of whether ElBaradei was right about that -- and
having sat at the other side of the table as an Iranian nuclear
negotiator, it seemed that he was -- it’s safe to say there
won’t be a solution to the Iranian nuclear dispute as long as
officials in Tehran and Washington continue to base their
relationship on escalating hostility, threats and mistrust,
particularly if the ultimate U.S. goal is regime change.  Both Miscalculated  Both sides have made miscalculations, worsening an already
strained relationship. From 2003 to 2005, Iran’s team in nuclear
negotiations with the so-called EU3 (the U.K.,  France  and
Germany) and the IAEA stressed repeatedly that Iran’s right to
enrich nuclear fuel was non-negotiable. The team, of which I was
part, argued that the EU3 should not be able to deprive Iran of
its legitimate right under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
to acquire nuclear technology, including uranium enrichment. We
made it clear that actions such as prolonging the negotiations
or suspending the enrichment program would not stop Iran.
Rather, Iran would restart the enrichment program, even at the
cost of sanctions that could cripple the country’s economy, or
of a military strike. The EU3 ignored these warnings.  On the other side, those in Tehran with a great deal of
sway over nuclear policy ignored warnings that if Iran restarted
enrichment unilaterally, that would result in Iran’s nuclear
file being referred to the  United Nations Security Council ,
citing  Iran’s nuclear program  as a threat to international peace
and security. Once referred, the way would be paved for imposing
further sanctions on Iran and further escalation. Unfortunately,
these Iranian policy makers saw the threat of referral as a
Western bluff aimed simply at intimidating them.  Hopefully, both parties have learned their lessons: Iran
will not forgo its rights under the non-proliferation treaty,
and the West will follow through with its threat of sanctions
and referral.  From 2003 to 2009, Iran exchanged many proposals with the
EU3, and later the P5+1 (the five permanent members of the UN
 Security Council , plus Germany). Again unfortunately, none were
realistic, largely because they did not provide face-saving
mechanisms for either party. Going forward, any viable solution
needs to meet the bottom lines of both sides. For Iran, this
means the ability to produce reliable civilian nuclear energy,
as it is entitled to do under the non-proliferation treaty. For
the U.S. and  Europe , it means never having Iran develop nuclear
weapons or a short-notice breakout capability.  Maximum Transparency  Specifically, the West should recognize the legitimate
right of Iran to produce nuclear technology, including  uranium
enrichment ; remove sanctions; and normalize Iran’s nuclear file
at the UN Security Council and the IAEA. To meet the P5+1
conditions, Iran should accept the maximum level of transparency
by implementing the IAEA’s  Subsidiary Arrangement Code 3.1  and
the non-proliferation treaty’s  Additional Protocol , which
broadly enable intrusive monitoring and inspections of nuclear
facilities.  To eliminate Western concerns about a possible nuclear
weapons breakout using low-enriched uranium, any deal should
place a limit on Iran’s enrichment activities to less than 5
percent. Low-enriched uranium covers enrichment by as much as 20
percent, a level that is more conducive for further enrichment
to weapons grade. A deal should also cap the amount of low-
enriched uranium hexafluoride that Iran can stockpile; limit its
enrichment sites during a period of confidence building;
establish an international consortium on enrichment in Iran; and
commit not to reprocess low-enriched uranium during the
confidence-building period.  President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ’s offer to stop 20 percent
enrichment in exchange for a P5+1 commitment to provide fuel
rods for the Tehran Research Reactor -- a proposal he made in
comments to reporters last September after a  speech  to the UN
General Assembly -- and  Russia ’s “Step-by-Step Plan” represent
the most conducive path to reaching such a deal. The Russian
plan includes full supervision by the IAEA; implementation of
the non-proliferation treaty’s Additional Protocol and
Subsidiary Arrangement; readiness to stop production of low-
enriched uranium and limiting enrichment to 5 percent; halting
the production and installation of new centrifuges; limiting
enrichment sites to one; addressing the IAEA’s “possible
military dimension” concerns and other technical ambiguities;
and temporary suspension of enrichment.  In return, Iran would expect the P5+1 to remove sanctions
and normalize Iran’s nuclear file in the IAEA and Security
Council. Iran has already welcomed both initiatives. The U.S.
and Europeans have declined. Instead, they have chosen to try
coercion. The result was evidenced in recent days, as Iranian
officials announced the insertion of their first domestically
produced 20 percent fuel rod, and an increase in the number of
enrichment  centrifuges  to 9,000 from 6,000.  Non-Interference Key  Finally, the U.S. should seek a broad relationship with
Iran based on mutual respect, non-interference, equality,
justice and common interests. No significant progress can be
made toward achieving the U.S. security objectives without first
convincing Iran that the U.S. is prepared to discuss all agenda
items in U.S.-Iran relations.  Both the U.S. and Iran have become prisoners of the past.
They need to have a realistic assessment of potential areas
where they could have common interests, such as  Afghanistan ,
 Iraq , security in the  Persian Gulf , curbing drug trafficking,
opposing al-Qaeda, and limiting the role of the Taliban.
Unfortunately, the pursuit of these potential common interests
has so far been hampered by a preoccupation with the nuclear
file and the domestic political climate in both countries.  (Seyed Hossein Mousavian is an associate research scholar
at  Princeton University ’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and
International Affairs, and a former spokesman for Iran’s nuclear
negotiating team. He was Iran’s ambassador to  Germany  from 1990
to 1997. This is the third in a series of op-ed articles about
Iran’s alleged nuclear weapons program. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Seyed Hossein Mousavian at  emad@Princeton.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  