-- Oxford Nanopore To Sell Tiny DNA Sequencer
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-02-17T18:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/oxford-nanopore-plans-portable-gene-sequencing-device.html
Oxford Nanopore Technologies Ltd. is
entering the gene-sequencing race with a new portable device
that will allow people to analyze DNA on the go.  The product, called MinION, is about the size of a USB
memory stick, the closely held Oxford, England-based company
said today. MinION will be ready for sale in the second half of
the year at a cost of less than $900. It’s a smaller version of
the GridION device that Oxford Nanopore is developing.  Oxford Nanopore is relying on the two products to spur
demand for machines that can decode the building blocks of  life ,
helping to identify new targets for medicines and illuminate
crop science. The company is jumping into a market led by  Life
Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  and  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , which last month said
they’ve built products that can sequence a genome in a day.
GridION is designed so that computing equipment can be clustered
to sequence an entire human genome in as little as 15 minutes.  “The USB stick is an absolute game-changer,” Oxford
Nanopore Chief Executive Officer Gordon Sanghera in a telephone
interview. “It’s plug-and-play, on-the-go DNA sequencing.”  Life Technologies fell 4.3 percent to $47.66 at 1:15 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading after dropping as much as 7
percent, the biggest intraday decline since Oct. 7. Illumina
dropped 2.9 percent to $52.39 after falling as much as 4.5
percent.  Tiny Hole  The company presented data on the two products today at the
 Advances in Genome Biology and Technology  conference in  Florida .
The devices use a novel technique known as strand sequencing, in
which an entire string of DNA is guided by an enzyme and passes
intact through a tiny hole in a cell membrane one-billionth of a
meter wide, like a child sucking spaghetti through his mouth.  The strand-sequencing technique relies on an engineered
protein or nanopore that creates the hole. As DNA bases, or
chemical building blocks, pass through the hole, an electronic
chip measures changes in electrical current in the membrane and
produces data that, when decoded, identifies the sequence of
bases that make up a genome.  That’s different from current techniques, in which 200 or
300 continuous bases of DNA are analyzed, Sanghera said. Oxford
Nanopore’s machines can read strands of tens of thousands of
bases with an accuracy comparable to technology already on the
market, he said.  Space Age  “That is some kind of fantastical, space-age thing,”
Sanghera said.  The MinION device can only be used once and can’t decode an
entire human genome, according to Oxford Nanopore. Users don’t
have to amplify DNA to be able to read it, and the sensitivity
is about the same as the larger GridION device, Sanghera said.  “This will result in broader adoption of DNA sequencing,”
he said. “This allows non-specialist scientists to extract DNA
information back in the field. You just need a laptop and
software.”  The GridION system, which is about the size of a
videocassette recorder, is designed so that researchers who need
quick results can add units of cartridges called nodes that
speed processing. Using 20 high-end nodes would allow the entire
genome to be sequenced in as little as 15 minutes, Oxford
Nanopore said.  ‘Pregnant Woman’  “Our competitors are like a pregnant woman,” said Zoe
McDougall, a company spokeswoman. “It takes nine months to make
a baby, and you can’t put nine women on it and get a baby in a
month. With our system, you can put nine women on it and make a
baby in a month.”  Not all customers want or need such speed, Sanghera said.  “You give flexibility back to the researcher in how they
do their experiments,” he said.  Pricing will be “competitive” and will vary, similar to
mobile-phone packages tailored to customers’ needs for talk time
and data, said Clive Brown, Oxford Nanopore’s chief technology
officer.  “There’s no fixed run time on this machine,” Brown said
in an interview. “You need pricing elasticity. They all pay
same cost per base, but it’s how it’s divided. That’s completely
new.”  Life Technologies, based in Carlsbad,  California , on Jan.
10 said it is taking orders for its benchtop Ion Proton
Sequencer. The machine, available for $149,000, is designed to
provide a full transcript of a person’s DNA in a day for $1,000.
Illumina, of  San Diego , said its HiSeq 2500 will be available in
the second half of the year. It didn’t reveal the price.  Potential Buyers  Illumina is the target of a $5.7 billion hostile bid by
 Roche Holding AG (ROG)  of Basel,  Switzerland . Illumina’s board
unanimously rejected the offer, calling it “grossly
inadequate.” Roche is a sponsor of the conference where Oxford
Nanopore presented the data on its machines.  Illumina owns 15 percent of Oxford Nanopore and has a
partnership with the U.K. company for a technology called
exonuclease sequencing, in which the DNA building blocks are
separated by an enzyme and pass individually through a nanopore.  While potential buyers have approached Oxford Nanopore, the
company hasn’t pursued any offers, Sanghera said.  “Over the last year, we’ve had various companies express
interest in us,” Sanghera said. “We remain focused on our
strategy, which is to get this technology to our customers.”  Shareholders  Oxford Nanopore’s shareholders include  IP Group Plc (IPO) , which
owns 21.5 percent, hedge-fund manager Lansdowne Partners LP and
Invesco Perpetual, the U.K. group of mutual funds. The company
also has individual shareholders, including company managers,
and employees have  stock options .  Oxford Nanopore is valued at about $1 billion, said Charles Weston, a London-based analyst at Numis Securities, which
advises IP Group, in a note to investors Feb. 1. Weston based
the figures on Oxford Nanopore gaining 25 percent of a market
that could grow to $6 billion within five years.  “To get a truly accurate assessment of our valuation, we
need to understand what markets we can penetrate,” Sanghera
said. “We are not displeased with $1 billion; we feel it could
be a lot bigger than that.”  Oxford Nanopore, spun out of University of Oxford in 2005,
uses sequencing technologies that were initially based on the
research of founder and board member Hagan Bayley, a chemistry
professor at the university. The company has built on that
science through collaborations with researchers at  Harvard
University , the  University of California   Santa Cruz  and  Boston
University , among others, and with internal research, said
McDougall, the company spokeswoman.  Early Access  Oxford Nanopore will give early access to a few
laboratories to try out the two devices, allowing them to
provide feedback and develop applications before the company
starts selling the products later this year, Sanghera said.  “The biggest challenge is managing expectations and
delivering on the next phase,” Sanghera said. “It feels like
you’ve been in a band, and you’ve been doing gigs in grotty
little venues, and then you wake up and you’re number one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  