-- Philippine Peso Strengthens After Inflow Report; Bonds Advance
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-02-17T03:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/philippine-peso-strengthens-after-inflow-report-bonds-advance.html
The  Philippine peso  advanced, paring
a weekly loss, after the central bank said foreign investment
increased in January. Ten-year  government bonds  rose.  The peso “has been stable with upward bias,” central bank
Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo told local television station
PTV-4 late yesterday, adding that a stronger local currency
would be beneficial for the economy. Net overseas investment in
stocks, bonds and deposits rose in January from the previous
month, the monetary authority reported yesterday. The peso has
rallied 2.7 percent against the dollar this year.  “The peso is among the better performers in the region,
supported by portfolio inflows and remittances,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “Recent
comments by officials signal that authorities will allow the
currency to follow the regional bias.”  The peso rose 0.4 percent to 42.660 per dollar as of 11:14
a.m. in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc, paring its loss
this week to 0.4 percent.  The yield on the 6.375 percent January 2022 peso bonds fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.88 percent,
prices at Tradition Financial Services showed. The rate dropped
four basis points for the week.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  cut its overnight borrowing
rate to 4.25 percent from 4.5 percent last month, the first
reduction in more than two years. The next meeting will be on
March 1. Authorities have “policy space” as the inflation
outlook remains favorable, Amando Tetangco said on Feb. 9.  A rising peso improves the attractiveness of local-currency
bonds, supporting a rally in fixed-income assets, Rao said.
“Bonds have been rising mostly on expectations of another
central  bank rate  cut in March.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 