-- Putin May Copy U.K.’s 5 Billion-Pound Windfall Tax on State Asset Sales
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-02-17T11:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/putin-may-copy-u-k-s-5-billion-pound-windfall-tax-on-state-asset-sales.html
Russia  may follow the example of a 5
billion-pound ($7.9 billion) one-time windfall tax imposed on
privatized utilities in the U.K. in 1997, the head of the
country’s budget watchdog said.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who’s campaigning for the
presidency in a March 4 election, last week said that he may
charge a one-time fee on entrepreneurs who acquired assets in
“unfair” 1990s privatizations.  “We’ll find those willing to pay part compensation for
‘unfair’ privatizations,” Sergei Stepashin,  a former prime
minister who heads the Audit Chamber, said in an  interview 
published today in the official government newspaper,
Rossiyskaya Gazeta. “There’s an example for us:  Tony Blair ’s
government carried out a similar measure with a number of big
companies that were privatized under  Margaret Thatcher .”  Within months of its landslide 1997 victory, Blair’s Labour
government imposed the 5 billion-pound tax on the “excess
profits” of utilities sold to investors by the previous
Conservative government. The new government contended the
British utilities were undervalued when privatized and wanted
the new owners to make up the difference through the tax.  Russia will consider imposing a levy equal to the
difference between the market value and actual price paid in the
asset sales in the 1990s, Stepashin said, adding that the
process may involve legal proceedings, if necessary.  The Micex Index of 30 stocks closed almost one percent
lower after Putin’s Feb. 9 announcement. Since he came to power
in 2000, he has repeatedly pledged not to reverse the 1990s
auctions, which handed holdings in the oil, metals and other
industries to so-called oligarchs, or wealthy businessmen, who
built ties to the government after the fall of communism. Moscow
is the city with the greatest number of billionaires at 79,
compared with  New York ’s 58, according to Forbes magazine.  Draw a Line  “We have to draw a line under this period, so that society
accepts the outcome, ending this problem of the 1990s,” Putin
said at a meeting in Moscow of the Russian Union of
Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, a lobby group for big
business. He described the privatizations that took place
through auctions as “frankly speaking unfair.”  Alexey Mordashov, the billionaire owner of steelmaker  OAO
Severstal (CHMF) , said Feb. 9 Putin’s proposal was a “sensitive”
issue. “The desire and the need to turn the page is
understandable, while it’s unclear whom to tax exactly -- those
who privatized, who own now, or minorities,” he said.  Decide Themselves  Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who’s standing for president
in the March election, said this month that all the businessmen
who bought state assets in the 1990s should decide themselves
how much they want to compensate the state.  If elected president, he vowed to donate almost all his
money to charity. Prokhorov’s fortune was estimated last year by
Forbes at $18 billion, making him Russia’s third-richest person.  After being elected to the presidency in 2000, Putin agreed
not to revisit the government’s asset sales from the previous
decade on condition the tycoons stay out of politics.  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , once Russia’s richest man and owner
of the country’s biggest oil producer, was imprisoned for  tax
evasion  and fraud and his  OAO Yukos (YUKO)  company dismantled in a
campaign he alleges was motivated by his political activities.  Khodorkovsky’s Menatep Bank bought a 78 percent stake in
Yukos for $300 million in a so-called loans-for-shares auction
that was organized by Menatep in December 1995. The energy
producer’s market capitalization later rose to as high as $30
billion.  Knockdown Prices  Some of the biggest Russian companies were auctioned off to
the businessmen at knockdown prices after the loans-for-shares
plan, which was created to prop up late President  Boris Yeltsin ’s government. Among other transactions under the loans-
for-shares, program, billionaire  Vladimir Potanin ’s ZAO Interros
Holding bought a 38 percent stake in miner OAO  Norilsk Nickel. (GMKN)   Putin, 59, the clear favorite in polls, is seeking to
garner more than 50 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff
against the second-place finisher in his bid to return to the
presidency after four years as premier. He was elected president
in 2000 and 2004 and stepped down in 2008 in favor of his
protege,  Dmitry Medvedev , to comply with constitutional  term
limits .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  