-- QNB Talks to Buy Dexia’s Denizbank Stall Over Price
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-18T08:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/qnb-s-talks-to-buy-dexia-s-denizbank-said-to-stall-over-price.html
Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) ’s talks to
acquire  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) , the Turkish lender put up for sale by
 Dexia SA (DEXB) , are stalled over price and may collapse, people with
knowledge of the process said.  Dexia, which is being broken up after the European debt
crisis reduced its ability to obtain funding, has reached out to
other potential buyers, one of the people said, declining to be
identified because the discussions are private.  The Franco-Belgian lender is seeking about 1.5 times
Denizbank’s  book value  of $2.1 billion, while Doha-based QNB is
prepared to pay between 1 and 1.2 times, the people said. While
the two sides may still reach an agreement, Dexia could also
decide to end the process and begin a new search for a buyer at
a later date, they said.  Denizbank shares have surged more than 50 percent since
early October, following reports Dexia would sell its majority
stake in the bank under its rescue plan. The lender is valued at
about 9.3 billion liras ($5.3 billion), according to the share
price, which rose 3.2 percent to 13 liras in Istanbul yesterday.
Less than 0.2 percent of the shares are traded, with the
 remainder owned  by Dexia, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A spokesman for Dexia, based in both Paris and Brussels,
declined to comment. A spokesman for QNB could not immediately
be reached for comment. While QNB is in talks with Dexia,
Denizbank will “cost us a lot” and the bank won’t distribute
“more profit than necessary” for the deal, chairman Yousef Hussain Kamal told shareholders Jan. 29.  Raising Cash  European banks are seeking to sell assets, portfolios and
units to raise cash amid the region’s debt crisis and to meet
tougher  capital requirements . Lenders including Deutsche Bank AG
and  France ’s Societe Generale SA have announced plans to shed
more than $1 trillion in assets, according to Bloomberg data.  QNB, the Persian Gulf country’s largest lender, was the
last serious buyer for Denizbank after earlier bidders including
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  OAO Sberbank (SBER)  dropped out, people familiar
with the situation said in January. A month earlier,  Banco
Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  opted to keep its Polish unit. Both
Denizbank and BCP’s Warsaw-based unit were examples of
profitable businesses in attractive markets that lost bidders,
people familiar with the discussions said in December.  The European Banking Authority told the region’s banks to
raise 114.7 billion euros ($151 billion) in fresh capital in
December to respond to the sharp fall in the value of securities
issued by euro-area governments. The agency also required banks
to keep a core Tier-1 capital ratio of 9 percent and hold
additional reserves, called a sovereign buffer, to protect
against default on debt tied to weaker euro-area economies.  Dexia put Denizbank up for sale as part of a rescue plan
undertaken by the French and Belgian governments. The firm is
putting its most troubled assets into a so-called bad bank and
trying to sell profitable units, including Denizbank, to raise
cash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  