-- Rail & Bridge Jumps Before Merger: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-17T11:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/rail-bridge-jumps-before-merger-shanghai-mover-correct-.html
(Corrects company name from first paragraph.)  Rail & Bridge International Co.  rose
by the 10 percent daily limit in  Shanghai  trading before its
proposed merger with China Communications Construction Co., the
country’s biggest port builder.  Rail & Bridge, an infrastructure construction company, rose
to 16.18 yuan at the 11:30 a.m. trading break, the highest
intraday level since March 2008. The shares resumed trading
today after a suspension since Jan. 30 and will be halted again
from Feb. 21 for shareholders to exercise their options. The
benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.1 percent.  China Communications, a Beijing-based infrastructure
company, said yesterday it will issue 1.3 billion shares at 5.40
yuan in its IPO and buy all the stock in Rail & Bridge that it
doesn’t already own. Rail & Bridge shareholders can opt to
receive  China  Communications shares at a ratio of 2.69 to one,
or receive a cash payment of 12.29 per share, according to a
statement to the exchange yesterday.  “The stock is rising because China Communications is going
to merge the company through a share swap,” Vivian Liu, an
analyst at Sinopac Securities Asia Ltd., said in a phone
interview in Shanghai. Through the transaction, Rail & Bridge
shareholders will get access to the larger company’s dredging
and port machinery operations, Liu said.  China Communications, which already owns 61.06 percent of
Rail & Bridge, had delayed its Shanghai IPO last year amid
weakness in the stock market, Chairman Zhou Jichang said in
July.  The company’s Hong Kong-traded  shares  have gained 23
percent this year, compared with a 16 percent increase in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index . The  IPO (1800)  will be the largest for China
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiang Jianguo in Shanghai at 
 jjiang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  