-- Goldman Sachs, Advent to Buy TransUnion
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r ,   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   S t e v e n   F r o m m
-- 2012-02-17T22:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/transunion-to-be-bought-by-advent-goldman-sachs-for-3-billion.html
TransUnion Corp. (TRANSU) , a provider of
credit information to banks and consumers, said Advent
International Corp. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s private
equity unit agreed to buy the company from Madison Dearborn
Partners and the Pritzker family in the largest leveraged-buyout
deal this year.  The transaction, which is expected to be completed by early
in the second quarter, values the company at more than $3
billion, according to a statement today from TransUnion. The
Chicago-based firm had total debt of $1.6 billion last year,
according to public filings, and is preparing to take on $600
million more, according to a Standard & Poor Financial Service’s
report issued today, valuing the equity component of the
transaction at about $800 million.  “The conversion of cash to plastic is an unstoppable,
global trend and several markets would be well served by a
credit bureau like TransUnion,” said Philip J. Philliou of New
York-based Philliou Partners, a payments consultant. “Global
expansion has got to be part of Advent’s investment thesis.”  TransUnion’s owners had initially planned to sell shares in
the company to the public, filing in July of last year to raise
$325 million in an initial public offering, just before the
market rout in the third quarter slowed stock sales. TransUnion
and its biggest competitors, including Equifax Inc. and Experian
Plc, are now coming under scrutiny as state and federal
regulators focus on the practice of providing credit checks to
employers.  Heightened Scrutiny  Bobby Mehta, the company’s chief executive officer, and the
rest of the leadership team will remain with TransUnion,
according to the statement.  The company has been criticized by civil rights groups and
the AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest labor union, who say that
credit checks by employers discriminate against black, Latino
and unemployed applicants. TransUnion, which keeps credit
histories on 500 million consumers and businesses, has led
lobbying against state laws restricting the use of such data,
those groups said in October.  The U.S. has sued companies such as the  Washington Post
Co. (WPO) ’s Kaplan Inc. education unit over using credit reports in
hiring and  California ’s Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown  last
year signed a law that limits many employers from engaging in
the practice.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau yesterday proposed
a regulation that would let it examine the books of such
businesses for the first time. Supervision, the process of
examining records and collecting data from companies, can lead
to enforcement action if regulators find violations of the law.  Madison Dearborn  “Our proposed rule would mean that those debt collectors
and credit reporting agencies that qualify as larger
participants are subject to the same supervision process that we
apply to the banks,”  Richard Cordray , the bureau’s director,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Created as a rail-car holding company in 1968, TransUnion
began a credit-reporting business and became the first company
to replace physical records with automated tape-to-disc
transfer, according to its  website . In 2002, the company
acquired TrueCredit.com to offer credit services directly to
customers online, expanding beyond credit reporting and
business-to-business services.  In April 2010, Madison Dearborn, a Chicago-based private
equity firm, acquired a 51 percent stake in TransUnion from the
city’s Pritzker family.  Advent International, based in  Boston , focuses on
international buyouts, strategic repositioning opportunities and
growth buyouts. Goldman Sachs will be making the investment out
of its $20.3 billion  GS Capital Partners VI (PEF3230)  Fund LP raised in
2007.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  advised
TransUnion on the deal. Advent International and GS Capital
Partners were advised by Evercore Partners Inc. and Goldman
Sachs, with Deutsche Bank and affiliates of Goldman Sachs
providing bank and bridge financing commitments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Fromm in New York at 
 sfromm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  