-- Treasury Notes Decline for a Third Week Amid Greek Debt Bailout Optimism
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-17T22:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/treasury-yield-is-31-basis-points-from-record-low-before-inflation-report.html
Treasuries fell, with 10-year notes
declining for a third straight weekly, amid speculation euro-
area finance ministers will reach an agreement to provide
funding for Greece, discouraging demand for the safest assets.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes remained above 2 percent
even after a report showed consumer prices increased less than
forecast by economists. U.S. debt securities have lost 0.5
percent this year, while corporate bonds have returned 2.3
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “We’ve had some positive news out of  Europe  and the
economic data of late has been stronger, which has been weighing
on Treasuries,” said  Scott Sherman , an interest-rate strategist
at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, one of 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the  Federal Reserve . “In a vacuum,
yields should head higher if things stay like this, but there is
still a lot of uncertainty over what the Fed will do. And that
contains any selloff.”  Yields on 10-year notes rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities maturing in February 2022 fell 5/32, or $1.56 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 31/32. The yields, which slid to a
record low 1.67 percent on Sept. 23, gained for a second day and
have increased one basis point this week.  Treasuries extended losses after Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti , German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Greek Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos  expressed optimism on a conference call
that an “agreement on Greece” can be reached at a Brussels
meeting of euro-area finance ministers on Feb. 20.  Risk Rally  The Stoxx Europe 600  Index (SXXP)  gained 0.6 percent, pushing its
advance this year to 9 percent, as investors become more
comfortable owning higher-returning assets. Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 0.2 percent.  “The bond market is trading as if there’s a better than 50
percent probability that a deal will get done,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “The  bond market  is
also showing signs of growth in the U.S. as the rest of Europe
may go into recession.”  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent after no
change the prior month, the Labor Department reported today in
 Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a 0.3
percent gain. Over the past 12 months, prices climbed 2.9
percent, the smallest year-to-year advance since March 2011.  Monetary Policy  “It’s hard to see inflation of any significant magnitude
coming in the U.S. for a while,” Rick Rieder, chief investment
officer for fundamental fixed-income portfolios at BlackRock
Inc., said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with Betty Liu. “The Fed is going to keep moving and
keep being accommodative. I think they’re ultimately going to go
down the road of QE3. If inflation continues to be tame, then I
think they can go down the road and focus on their statutory
obligations to keep moving and get to full employment.”  A few members of the central bank’s policy-setting  Federal
Open Market Committee  said the group may soon have to consider
more asset purchases, while others said the economic outlook
would have to deteriorate first, according to minutes of their
Jan. 24-25 meeting issued Feb. 15.  The Fed  bought  $4.96 billion of Treasuries due from May
2018 to February 2020 today as part of its plan to hold down
borrowing costs by exchanging shorter-term debt in its holdings
for longer ones.  The euro crisis and the Fed’s accommodative policies have
lowered the 10-year note yield by 45 basis points from where it
would be otherwise, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Risk Premium  “With the uncertainty around  Greece  still unresolved,
markets remain in a ‘wait and see’ mode,” Silvia Ardagna, an
analyst at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a note to clients. “Some of
euro-area risk needs to be removed before we can recommend
taking short positions on U.S. Treasuries.”  A measure of traders’ expectations for inflation that is
tracked by the Fed has risen this year to 2.54 percent from a
low of 2.42 percent in January. The five-year, five-year  forward
break-even rate , which projects annualized price increases over
a five-year period starting in 2017, is below its 2.76 percent
average over the past decade.  Assuming nonfinancial corporations are at least as healthy
as they have been on average over the last 20 years, spreads
should narrow by at least 50 basis points for investment-grade
bonds and possibly by 100 basis points for high-yield debt,
Rieder wrote in a report on the New York-based company’s
Website. BlackRock manages $3.51 trillion.  Swap Spreads  The Bank of America  index (SXXP)  of U.S. corporate and below-
investment-grade bonds yields 2.96 percentage points more than
Treasuries. The spread narrowed to 2.95 percentage points on
Feb. 14, the least since August.  Even so, some measures of stress in global credit markets
have stopped easing as the rescue plan for Greece still
threatens to unravel and some of the largest U.S. and European
banks face potential ratings cuts.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread touched 31.25
basis points yesterday, the most since the beginning of the
month. The measure rises when investors seek the perceived
safety of  government securities  and falls when they favor assets
such as corporate bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net 
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  