-- Regulators Make Nice as U.S. Banks Bristle Over Tough Examiners
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-02-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/regulators-make-nice-as-u-s-banks-bristle-over-tough-examiners.html
  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben Bernanke  sounded conciliatory as he stood before an audience of
community bankers in Virginia.  “The Fed is committed to fair, consistent and informed
examinations,” and it has a “robust appeals process” when
banks disagree with examiners’ findings, Bernanke told an
audience yesterday during a conference at the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.’s Arlington headquarters.  Bernanke was addressing tensions that have been mounting
between banks and regulators since the 2008 financial crisis.
Bankers say agencies including the Federal Reserve, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., and the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency are applying regulatory standards too stringently
and inconsistently.  For evidence, financial institutions point to the number of
banks facing pressure from regulators to improve their financial
positions. About a third of banks are now under either informal
or formal regulatory orders, up from an average of about 3
percent to 4 percent during normal economic times, said Cam Fine, president of the  Independent Community Bankers of America .  Bankers say they are sometimes forced to write down
performing loans based on the value of collateral, without
regard to whether the borrowers have adequate income or  cash
flow . Regulators are also requiring capital increases beyond
regulatory mandates, according to the  ICBA .  Legislation Offered  The bankers’ pushback has reached the ear of Congress.
Republican and Democratic lawmakers in the  House of
Representatives  have introduced legislation that would establish
an ombudsman and would allow banks to appeal the results of
their exams to an administrative law judge. Both roles would be
established within the Federal Financial Institutions
Examination Council, an interagency regulatory body.  The measure, the  Financial Institutions Examination
Fairness and Reform Act , also would require regulators to
provide examination reports on a strict 60-day deadline and
relax treatment of commercial loans, which are a significant
part of the business now done by many small banks. Community
banks, defined as those with less than $10 billion in assets,
account for 21 percent of the U.S. banking industry and made 58
percent of outstanding bank loans to small businesses, according
to the ICBA.  Regulators say the bill would hamper their ability to
ensure that financial institutions are operating soundly. Bad
economic conditions and poor business decisions are to blame for
the banks’ predicament, they say.  A Local Disconnect  “The weak economy, together with loose lending standards
in the past, has put pressure on the entire banking industry,
including community banks,” Bernanke told the bankers
yesterday. Supervisors, he said, “must insist on high standards
for lending, risk management, and governance.”  Representative Shelley Moore Capito, a West  Virginia 
Republican who co-authored the Fairness Act with  New York  Democrat Carolyn Maloney, said Washington-based regulators often
seem more sympathetic than their regional examiners to the views
of community bankers.  “Over the last year, we have heard a chorus of concern
that there is a disconnect between what is said in Washington by
federal regulators and what is carried out by the field
examiners,” said Capito, who also spoke at yesterday’s FDIC
conference.  Regulators say they are trying to fix that. FDIC Acting
Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  told conference attendees yesterday
that he had directed his staff to review examination procedures
“to see if we can identify ways to improve our processes and
communication while maintaining our supervisory standards.”  ‘Misplaced Zeal’  Community banks say that process can’t happen fast enough.  “The misplaced zeal and arbitrary demands of examiners are
having a chilling effect on credit,” Noah Wilcox, president and
chief executive of  Grand Rapids  State Bank in Grand Rapids,
 Minnesota , told members of Congress at a hearing this month.
“The contraction in credit is having a direct, adverse impact
on the economic recovery.”  Robert Fisher, president and chief executive of  Tioga State
Bank  of Spencer, New York, said that one way community banks can
cope with regulatory overreach is to change their charters.
Banks with the FDIC as their primary regulator can move over to
the Fed, though they should know that “the grass can sometimes
seem greener” with another agency.  “Choice is always a good thing,” Fisher said in an
interview. “The pendulum swings both ways and I think having a
choice keeps the regulators from swinging too far.”  The Financial Institutions Examination Fairness and Reform
Act is H.R. 3461.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in  Washington  at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net 
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  