-- Republicans Ask Chu to Explain Links Between Prologis, Solyndra
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-18T03:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/republicans-ask-chu-to-explain-links-between-prologis-solyndra.html
House Republicans asked U.S. Energy
Secretary Steven Chu about a $1.4 billion partial loan guarantee
to a solar-energy company that was to buy panels from failing
Solyndra LLC, which went out of business three months later.  The House Energy and Commerce Committee today said Chu may
have intervened on behalf of San Francisco-based  Prologis Inc. (PLD) 
in June 2011 and help prop up Solyndra after restructuring its
$535 million U.S. loan. The panel said documents obtained in its
investigation, and not released, showed Solyndra was to be the
only supplier in the first phase of Prologis’s Project Amp to
install equipment on rooftops managed by the company.  Representative Fred Upton, a Michigan Republican and
committee head, and Cliff Stearns, a Florida Republican and
chairman of the investigations panel, “are greatly concerned at
the extraordinary measures the Obama administration appears to
have taken in keeping Solyndra afloat,” the committee said in a
statement.  The lawmakers asked Chu in a letter released today to
provide by Feb. 24 a range of documents to get a better
understanding of the “Project Amp loan guarantee, as well as
the relationship between Solyndra and Project Amp.”  Feb. 21 Deadline  Separately,  House Republicans  said tonight that the White
House had turned over an additional 463 pages of documents and
e-mails in response to subpoenas issued in November. The
lawmakers said in a statement that the administration still
hadn’t fully complied with the investigation and had until Feb. 21
to provide the panel with all documents related to Solyndra.  Republicans have questioned whether President Barack Obama’s campaign fundraiser  George Kaiser , whose family
foundation was Solyndra’s biggest investor, pressed for the $535
million loan. Kaiser has said he didn’t lobby. Prologis’s co-
chief executive officers have contributed to Republicans,
including presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , and Democrats.  Solyndra fired 1,100 workers on Aug. 31, and sought
 bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6.  When Prologis’s loan closed in late September, Solyndra
wasn’t a supplier to Project Amp, Damien LaVera, an Energy
Department spokesman, said. The Energy Department announced
Sept. 30 that Prologis’s loan guarantee had closed, though the
company received a conditional commitment in June, according to
the House committee.  Chu Response  “Secretary Chu strongly supported Project Amp because it
will be the largest rooftop project in U.S. history and is
expected to generate enough clean, renewable electricity to
power over 88,000 homes while supporting at least a thousand
jobs all across the country,” LaVera said in an e-mail.  Project Amp was supported by companies including  Bank of
America Corp . of  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , and  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) 
of Princeton,  New Jersey , he said.  Chu may have pushed U.S. backing for Prologis while the
Energy Department helped renegotiate Solyndra’s loan as part of
a last-ditch U.S. effort to keep the Fremont, California-based
company alive, according to the committee’s statement.  “It appears that Solyndra’s involvement in Project Amp was
a significant factor both in the negotiations” to avoid
Solyndra’s bankruptcy and to close the loan guarantee for
Prologis, Upton and Stearns said in the letter to Chu.  Roof Project  Energy Department employees took part in negotiations
between Solyndra and Prologis on the roof project, helping to
work out a “shipment schedule, the number of megawatts Solyndra
would supply and the price per watt,” the lawmakers said in the
letter.  Upton and Stearns want communications and documents related
to Project Amp and Solyndra since Jan. 1, 2010, according to the
letter.  “As has consistently been the case in the course of this
committee’s year-long political investigation, critics of our
effort to support innovative, job-creating clean energy projects
will say anything to distort the record,” LaVera said.  Representatives from San Francisco-based Prologis didn’t
have a comment.  Prologis Chairman and co-Chief Executive Officer Hamid R. Moghadam donated $2,500 to Romney’s presidential campaign in
July, according to filings with the  Federal Election Commission .
He also gave $2,000 to support House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, in August and $1,000 for Representative  George Miller , a California Democrat, in September, records show.  Walter C. Rakowich, a co-CEO, contributed $1,000 to Senator
 Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, in March 2011 and $2,500 to the
 National Republican Senatorial Committee  in August, according to
the FEC. Rakowich gave Representative Richard Neal, a
Massachusetts Democrat, $1,000 in March 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  