-- Republicans Are Unprotected on Contraception: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-02-17T00:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/republicans-are-unprotected-on-contraception-jonathan-alter.html
During the 1928 presidential
campaign, nutty right-wing Protestants claimed that Al Smith,
the first Catholic nominated for president by a major party, was
planning to extend  New York ’s  Holland Tunnel  all the way to the
Vatican.  Today’s tunnel would run from the Vatican to a suburban
Pentecostal megachurch.  We learned this week that U.S. Catholics support President
Barack Obama’s Feb. 10 compromise on contraception in almost
 identical  numbers to the population as a whole. Many of those
sticking with the Catholic bishops in opposition are evangelical
Protestants.  Historians are rubbing their eyes in wonder that the
spiritual and political descendants of Protestants who founded
the Know Nothing Party in the 1850s on anti-Papist ideas -- who
hassled not just Al Smith but also  John F. Kennedy  for supposed
ties to  Rome  -- are now embracing Catholics. Rick Santorum was
recently greeted at Oral Roberts University by an enthusiastic
crowd of 4,000.  Yes, politics makes strange bedfellows, and in this case,
the Republicans, by throwing in their lot with the bishops, are
using no protection. Like the controversy over the Susan G.
Komen for the Cure foundation withdrawing support from  Planned
Parenthood  over its provision of abortion services, this
struggle leaves Republicans politically exposed.  Redefining the Debate  At first, the Komen case looked like just another example
of anti-abortion activists flexing their muscles against hapless
women’s health advocates. Then came a furious, highly effective
counterassault fueled by liberal social media, a new
counterweight to conservative talk radio in defining the terms
of debate. The outcome of that flap, in which the Komen
foundation reversed itself and apologized, shows that bashing
Planned Parenthood may work in Republican primaries but will be
poison in the general election.  The demand for “conscience” exemptions from Obamacare for
Catholic hospitals, schools and charities (churches were already
exempt) also looked good for the Republicans initially.
Conservatives thought that they had a chance to revive the
“culture wars” -- the wedge-issue appeals to faith and family
that have worked so well in the past. For more than a week,
Republicans made Obama look like the guy who ordered Joan of Arc
burned at the stake.  Their problem is that they never know when to stop. Recall
the case of Terri Schiavo, the Florida woman in a persistent
vegetative state whose plight led conservative lawmakers to
champion federal legislation in 2005 to keep her alive. The
measure passed, but public opinion polls afterward showed the
law was widely unpopular and a clear case of congressional
overreach.  This time conservatives stuck with the argument that the
president was abusing religious freedom even when that attack
was no longer plausible. By decreeing that insurance companies,
not Catholic institutions, will pay for contraceptives in
employee health-care plans (as allowed under the Affordable Care
Act), the president successfully shifted the subject back to
 birth control , where he’s on solid political footing.  Obama’s like a quarterback who calls a bad play and seems
trapped in the pocket, then scrambles for big yardage.  Put Into Context  The bad play resulted from poor political planning inside
the White House, which failed to line up supporters to defend
its decision. But it’s a little more defensible when you know
the context. For months, the pressure seemed to come from the
left. The White House learned that 28 states (including Mitt Romney’s Massachusetts) already require that health plans under
their jurisdiction cover contraceptives. These rules had
survived court challenges on religious freedom grounds. In fact,
women’s groups were threatening lawsuits if Obamacare didn’t
also require such coverage, and some government lawyers argued
that the new law provided no authority for any exemptions for
institutions receiving federal money.  Obama’s team debated the issue and, contrary to published
reports, the discussion didn’t break down cleanly along gender
lines, with women on one side and Catholic men on the other.
When the rule was made public on Jan. 20, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  faced not a single question about it. Then
the regional and religious press embraced the story, and within
a week even liberal Catholic columnists like E.J. Dionne and
Mark Shields were up in arms.  But the firestorm may prove to be a political blessing. If
the president had started on Jan. 20 with the compromise he
eventually arrived at on Feb. 10, it would have been a one-day
story for health-care policy wonks. Birth control would never
have surfaced as a political issue.  Instead contraception is now the elephant in the bedroom --
the issue that no one in the Republican establishment wants to
talk about because they know it’s a disaster for them.  The Republicans may end up with a nominee,  Rick Santorum ,
who has warned of “the dangers of contraception in this
country.” He said: “It’s not OK because it’s a license to do
things in the sexual realm that is counter to how things are
supposed to be.”  This from a candidate who recently said of the president:
“He thinks he knows better how to run your lives.”  Imagine what Obama would do with that in a debate.  Instead of running away from Santorum, many Republicans are
running toward him -- once again, failing to get the memo on
when to stop. Senator  Scott Brown  co-sponsored a bill this week
with Senator  Roy Blunt  that would let any employer with a “moral
conviction” (a term left undefined in the legislation) deny
access to any health service, including contraception, they
personally oppose. This weapon is aimed at Obamacare, but it
will probably boomerang on Brown, who is locked in a tight re-
election campaign in  Massachusetts  against  Elizabeth Warren .  With all the major candidates this year enjoying seemingly
happy marriages, it didn’t seem as if sex would figure much in
this campaign. Wrong. The independent women who will help
determine the election want the government -- and their bosses -
- out of their private lives.  The culture wars are over, and the Republicans lost.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 