-- Ride Emerging Middle Class Boom to Profit, EG/A’s Holderith Says
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-02-17T18:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/ride-emerging-markets-middle-class-boom-to-profit-eg-a-s-holderith-says.html
Emerging-market stocks with links to
the middle class are the best bets to profit on expansion in
those economies, said Bob Holderith, who oversees the U.S.’
fastest growing developing-nation exchange traded fund.  “The amount of the discretionary spending is going to
double and triple,” Holderith, president and founder of
Emerging Global Advisors in  New York , said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters yesterday. “It’s tough to find another
story like that in the  emerging markets .”  Total assets of  EGShares Emerging Markets Consumer Titans
Index Fund (ECON) , which tracks the stocks of food, car and media
companies in  developing countries , have soared 1,136 percent to
$329 million since its inception in September 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the biggest increase among
emerging-market ETFs domiciled in the U.S. with assets of at
least $100 million.  Spending by middle-class consumers in countries such as
China and  Brazil  will probably swell from $6.9 trillion to more
than $20 trillion by 2022, equivalent to the size of the
economies of the U.S., U.K. and  Japan  combined, according to a
study by  McKinsey & Co.  in April 2011.  The Dow Jones Emerging
Markets Consumer Titan 30 Index , the benchmark stock measure
that EGShare’s ETF tracks, has gained 188 percent in the past
three years, more than double the return of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Good Mood  “The mood in most of the emerging markets is good,”
Holderith said. “The growth of the emerging-market consumer is
going to be similar but at a multiple larger in size to the
growth of the U.S. consumer and the Japanese consumer.”  EGShare’s consumer ETF has earned 20 percent since its
inception. The  Vanguard MSCI Emerging Market ETF (VWO) , the largest
developing-economy exchange-traded fund with total assets of $50
billion, returned 0.5 percent during the same period.  The consumer fund’s largest holdings include the American
Depositary Receipts of  Cia de Bebidas das Americas , Latin
America’s largest brewer known as AmBev,  Naspers Ltd. (NPN) , Africa’s
largest media company, and Chinese carmaker Donfeng Motor Group
Co.  The ADRs of Sao Paulo-based AMBev have increased 111
percent in the past two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  