-- Robusta Premium Drops 22% as Vietnam May Sell Beans After Rally
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-17T16:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/robusta-premium-drops-22-as-vietnam-may-sell-beans-after-rally.html
The premium for robusta coffee
delivered in March over May dropped another 22 percent today as
farmers in Vietnam, the world’s biggest grower of the beans,
resumed sales to take advantage of higher prices.  Beans for March delivery were $102 a metric ton more
expensive than May-delivered coffee by 4:22 p.m. on NYSE Liffe
in  London , data on Bloomberg show. That’s down 22 percent from
yesterday and 38 percent from two days ago.  Robusta coffee has jumped 18 percent this year, exceeding
all but silver of 24 commodities in the GSCI gauge of raw
materials. The March contract went from being $10 a ton cheaper
than the May contract on Feb. 8 to $164 a ton more expensive
five days later, triggering speculation that there was more
interest in taking a delivery of beans. The first notice of
delivery for the March contract is March 1.  “The price difference between March and May has started to
come down, showing that there is definitely coffee in  Vietnam ,
and producers want to sell but aren’t finding the demand,” said
Oscar L. Schaps, managing director of global soft commodities at
INTL FCStone Inc. in Miami. “People have already started
talking about delivering into the market.”  NYSE Liffe has proposed limits on deliveries in its London
commodity futures. That would prevent buyers from taking more
than 75,000 tons of coffee. Limits would also be imposed for
cocoa, white sugar and feed wheat.  Vietnam’s coffee exports fell 48 percent to 112,182 tons in
January, according to government figures. Farmers there had sold
about 35 percent of the crop before the Tet holiday, down from
an anticipated 50 percent, according to broker Marex Spectron
Group in London. The Tet festival, which marks the Lunar New
Year, ran from Jan. 23 to Jan. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 