-- Romney’s Road to Nomination Rocked by Voters Shredding Rulebook
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   M i c h a e l   T a c k e t t
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/romney-s-road-to-republican-nomination-rocked-as-voters-shredding-rulebook.html
Mitt Romney  has followed the
playbook for winning the Republican presidential nomination to
the letter. He raised more money than his opponents and built a
national organization. He piled up endorsements from prominent
party insiders. He proved he could win in a bellwether primary
in New Hampshire and a major state in  Florida (BEESFL) .  Labeled a front-runner early, he now finds himself getting
weaker rather than stronger, raising a prospect unthinkable only
two weeks ago: He could lose.  The conventions that have defined the primary process for
the last 40 years have been turned inside out, and Romney’s
fortunes have fallen.  “Through very little fault of his own, Romney is the
front-runner, but he’s probably the weakest Republican front-
runner in the history of the party,” said  Dan Schnur , an aide
on Senator  John McCain ’s 2000 presidential bid who directs the
Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of
 Southern California  in  Los Angeles .  “He just had the bad timing to run for president at a time
when the party establishment had much less influence over the
nominating process,” Schnur said.  Party Power Ebbs  The strength of political parties is being undercut as the
full impact of the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  Citizens United case is
being felt for the first time. The court held that the
government can’t limit political spending, hastening the rise of
a new class of political action committees dubbed super-PACs
because they can accept unlimited contributions from
individuals, corporations and unions.  Now a candidate’s run can be kept alive from a single
wealthy individual as when  Sheldon Adelson , a Las Vegas casino
owner, sustained  Newt Gingrich  and Foster Friess, a  fund manager 
based in  Wyoming , helped do the same for  Rick Santorum .  The decision has created “a countervailing force on the
money side,” said Tom Rath, a former member of the Republican
National Committee and Romney supporter.  “The great rule was that after a startup period and the
politics of the day became clearer, it became harder and harder
to raise money if you were under-performing politically,” he
said. “The existence of super-PACs countermands that. You can
have life beyond your quarterly filings.”  In addition, the rise of anti-tax, anti-government spending
 Tea Party  activists who rely on social media and see their lack
of a formal organization as a virtue has undercut the authority
of more establishment groups.  ‘Individual Decisions’  “The ability of a party to dictate to its voters is almost
non-existent,” Rath said. “There are very few party decisions
being made, tons of individual decisions. The way the party has
subdivided, un-divided and re-divided is really playing out this
time.”  Romney had been following a pattern for Republican primary
winners since at least 1980. He raised  more money , reporting
donations of $56 million in 2011, more than double that of his
closest fundraising rival, U.S. Representative Ron Paul of
 Texas , who recorded $25.9 million in contributions last year,
according to Federal Election Commission reports.  The former Massachusetts governor won  New Hampshire , and,
like five of the last six nominees of his party, he came with
experience, having run and lost before.  This time has been different in other ways, too. Candidate
boomlets typically fade along with their chances. This time both
Gingrich and Santorum have been written off only to bounce back
with the help of their new financiers.  Santorum’s Surge  Santorum, who won contests in Minnesota, Colorado and
 Missouri  on Feb. 7 with minimal resources, now leads Romney in
 polls  in Michigan, where Romney’s campaign has committed
significant campaign funds and emphasized his connections as a
native and son of a popular governor.  “One of the reasons that people seem so surprised by the
way that this primary has progressed is that Republicans tend to
be much more orderly, much more hierarchical than this,” Schnur
said. “As the grassroots activists have gained strength at the
expense of the Republican establishment, we’ve seen this really
spin out of control.”  That chaos has allowed multiple challengers to campaign as
the un-Romney in the race, with Santorum now holding that
position.  “There is no common denominator between various un-
Romneys, except that each has been a vehicle for the various
groups in the  Republican Party  to express their distaste for
Romney,” said Schnur. “Other than Romney coming up with a
message that appeals to conservatives, there’s not much he can
do about any of it.”  Disruptive Dynamics  While every race has its own dynamic, the defining message
of this year’s primary thus far is that of disruption.  “The one convention that’s being honored is that there is
no real convention,” said Rath, a lawyer in Concord, New
Hampshire. “Every race defines itself. I do think this one has
really pushed the envelope. There is nothing comparable to this
race.”  Nineteen televised candidate debates also have given the
race a reality TV dimension.  “It does remind me of these multi-person talent
competitions,” Rath said. “It has made this whole race more
immediate and accessible. There is a nationalization of this
process much quicker than there used to be.”  The next contest in  Michigan  on Feb. 28 will be a test of
whether Republicans will return to regular order. “If Romney
loses Michigan,” Schnur said, “then the race will be in
complete chaos.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tackett in Washington at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  