-- Royal Adultery Movie Battles Hate-Crime Story for Berlin Prize
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-02-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/royal-adultery-movie-battles-hate-crime-story-for-berlin-prize.html
The  Berlin Film Festival  reaches its
climax tomorrow, when the winners of the bear awards will be
announced. Eighteen movies are competing. The jury is led by the
U.K. film director  Mike Leigh  and includes actors Charlotte
Gainsbourg and  Jake Gyllenhaal .  These are my top four choices of the 15 competition movies
seen so far.  Arranged Marriage  “A Royal Affair”: Queen Caroline Mathilda of Denmark
(Alicia Vikander), who grew up in 18th-century England, had an
arranged marriage to a king she hadn’t met. Christian VII
(Mikkel Boe Foelsgaard) is a troubled soul, a buffoon in public
and a pushover for his ministers. Johann Friedrich Struensee, a
German man of the Enlightenment who tends to the sick and poor,
is enrolled as the king’s physician.  Portrayed by Mads Mikkelsen (best known as the villain in
the James Bond movie “Casino Royale,”) Struensee also becomes
the queen’s lover. The king gives him with more and more power,
until Struensee is effectively running  Denmark  single-handedly,
introducing one startlingly progressive reform after another.
It’s only a matter of time before reactionary forces unite
against him.  Directed by Nikolaj Arcel (who co-wrote the script for the
2009 Swedish movie “The Girl With the  Dragon Tattoo ”), the
film is based on historical events. With accomplished acting
(Foelsgaard is fabulous as the fragile, unpredictable king), it
moves at a cracking pace.  Subtle Script  The script is taut, subtle and erudite, capturing a brief,
bright chapter of excitement and change. Casual mentions of
Voltaire, Rousseau, Shakespeare and Malory mingle with plans for
smallpox inoculations and sewage management.  Sadly, it may not be topical or innovative enough for the
Berlin festival jury, which traditionally favors edgier fare.
Yet this seems as good a time as any for  Europe  to be reminded
of the values passed onto it by the Enlightenment -- freedom of
the individual, rule by the people, social rights, the free
exchange of ideas. It would get my Golden Bear.  Rating: ****.  Squealing Terror  “Just the Wind”: Tense fear stalks the woods in this
Hungarian film about a series of attacks on Roma families living
in primitive shacks.   A family has been shot in a racist hate crime and their 
pig is heard squealing in the forest by the terrified neighbors
at night.  Bence Fliegauf’s drama shows a day in the life of another
Roma family after the attack: Mari (Katalin Toldi) is juggling
jobs to feed her children, her daughter is trying to focus on
school and her father is sunk in an alcoholic haze. Her son is
preparing a bunker to hide out while the killers are at large.  The movie is based on real events: Between 2008 and 2009,
16 Roma homes in  Hungary  were attacked with Molotov cocktails,
shotguns and rifles. Six people died and criminal proceedings
are continuing.  A sense of unease and foreboding builds up so tangibly in
this movie that the violent end is unnecessary.  Rating: ***.  Lovers Escape  “Barbara”: An East German doctor in 1980, Barbara (Nina
Hoss) has applied to leave the country. After being arrested,
she is transferred as punishment from Berlin to the provinces
where she plans her escape with a lover from the west, whom she
meets secretly. Initially she keeps her distance from
colleagues, yet gradually her new environment -- particularly
her new boss -- starts to draw her in.  Christian Petzold creates a strangely timeless East Germany
with no stonewashed denim or unfortunate perms. It’s a
compelling, quiet story of how duty and love can overcome
politics.  Rating: ***.  Ski Robber  “Sister”: Set in the Swiss Alps, the movie contrasts the
wealthy skiers at a resort with those eking out an existence by
the main road below. Twelve-year-old Simon (Kacey Mottet Klein)
invests in a ski pass so that he can rob tourists of their
equipment and sell it to buy groceries for himself and his older
sister. His practical self-sufficiency belies a desperate need
for affection.  His sister, played by a puff-faced Lea Seydoux, is
incapable of holding down a job, is prone to drunken binges and
hangs out with unsavory men. A dramatic twist halfway through
the movie makes Simon’s plight even more heartbreaking. These
two are among the more memorable characters of this year’s
Berlinale.  Rating: ***.  For more information, go to  http://www.berlinale.de/en/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 