-- Running for President? No Experience Necessary: Michael Kinsley
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-02-17T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/running-for-president-no-experience-necessary-michael-kinsley.html
During a presidential debate in
1984,  Ronald Reagan , who was then 73,  famously said  of his
opponent, Walter Mondale, who was then 56 and trying to make an
issue of Reagan’s age: “I am not going to exploit for political
purposes my opponent’s youth and inexperience.”  The joke turns, of course, on the reasonable assumption
that, as a rule, experience is a good thing and inexperience is
a bad thing.  Mitt Romney  started this year’s presidential campaign with
the same assumption. So did other Republicans. “Inexperienced”
was their favorite one-word accusation against President  Barack Obama . It is witheringly dismissive without seeming overtly
hostile or in any way racist. Come back in a few years, sonny,
when you’ve had some experience. Even  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , the
president of  Iran ,  called Obama  “inexperienced,” though I guess
that’s a step up from “the great Satan.”  If politics were a resume contest, Romney’s would be hard
to beat. Successful private businessman. Generally successful
one-term governor. Saved the Salt Lake City Olympics.  Or so everybody thought, including Romney. Thanks to  Newt Gingrich  and  Rick Santorum , though, the whole successful-
businessman theme has turned from a plus to a minus.  And this is in the Republican primaries. Romney has now
been repositioned by his opponents as a rich guy who enjoys
throwing people out of work. We hear almost nothing from Romney
about his accomplishments as governor. He might as well have
been out of work (as he foolishly -- and briefly -- claimed) and
playing tennis at the country club, for all that anyone would
care. In fact, in some ways he would be better off today if
that’s what he’d done.  Washington Experience Unwanted  So now Romney emphasizes his own inexperience -- in
particular, his inexperience of  Washington . It plays a larger
role in his campaign than his experience as a governor and
businessman. He  knows nothing  about Washington, he says.
Couldn’t tell you which monument is Washington and which is
Lincoln. By contrast Gingrich spent 20 years in Congress, rose
to the No. 3 position in the government and feels he must be
defensive about it. If Santorum hadn’t lost his race for re-
election to the Senate by 17 percentage points six years ago, he
probably would not be running for president now.  Not only is planning and executing a run for the presidency
a more-than-full-time job (and if you miss any Senate votes
while doing it, you get tarred as a slacker), but there’s a
great rhetorical advantage in being out of office. The
experience of being in office just gets you in trouble.  In a  debate last fall , Texas Governor  Rick Perry  pretty
much played his assigned role as the heavy except for one
moment, when he defended his support for a Texas law allowing
the children of illegal immigrants to qualify for in-state
tuition at state colleges. If you disagreed with that policy, he
said, “I don’t think you have a heart.” As far as I know, it was
the first (and last) sign that Perry has one, and -- along with
 the immortal “oops”  a couple of months later -- it took him out
of the race.  Then there is the “individual mandate” -- a critical
feature of both Romney’s and Obama’s health-care plans, designed
by conservatives. How was Romney supposed to know, back when he
pushed it through as governor, that it would become  a symbol  of
the (yet to be experienced) excesses of Obamacare? Romney no
doubt wishes he had never heard the term “individual mandate,”
or attempted to tackle this huge social problem as governor.  It’s preposterous that experience in government should be a
disadvantage in running for president. But we’ve reached the
point where actual current government service (except for the
sitting president) is almost disqualifying, past government
service is a disadvantage, and no previous experience is
necessary.  Gotcha Politics  Nasty “gotcha” politics are part of the problem. They can’t
attack your record if you’ve got no record. That was one of
Obama’s big advantages in 2008, when he’d been in the Senate for
only three years. You get no points for years of government
service, but some long-forgotten vote can come back and haunt
you. So the fewer votes, the better. Or now the very fact of
long and loyal government service is a weapon to be used against
you.  Citizens may be genuinely and rightly angry at the
government’s failures. More likely, they are unreasonably
disappointed that the government can’t suspend the laws of
mathematics and solve our economic problems in a snap. The
politicians are at fault for making promises they can’t keep,
but the voters are also to blame for believing the promises --
in fact for insisting on them.  We haven’t yet elected one of those know-it-all businessmen
with no political experience, like Lee Iacocca or  Ross Perot .
But Romney is pretending to be that person, and he’s still the
second-most-likely person to be president a year from now.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 