-- Russia Stocks Rise for the Week as U.S. Economic Data Boosts Oil
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2012-02-17T16:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/russia-stocks-rise-for-the-week-as-u-s-economic-data-boosts-oil.html
Russian stocks rose as the price of
oil, the country’s main export earner, climbed on signs an
improving U.S. economy will support fuel demand.  The 30-stock  Micex (INDEXCF)  advanced as much as 0.9 percent before
closing little changed at 1,568.54 for a weekly increase of 2.8
percent.  OAO Mechel (MTLR) , the country’s biggest coking coal producer,
jumped 1.3 percent.  OAO Sberbank (SBER) ,  Russia ’s largest lender, added
as much as 1.3 percent. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  rose
0.9 percent to 1,656.60 for a 3.3 percent climb in the week.  Oil, Russia’s main export revenue earner, increased as much
as 1.2 percent to $103.57 a barrel in  New York . Jobless claims
in the U.S. dropped to the lowest level since 2008, beating
estimates and sending stocks higher globally. European officials
are considering cutting  interest rates  on emergency loans to
 Greece  and using contributions from the  European Central Bank  to
plug a new financing gap in a Greek bailout, people familiar
with the talks said.  “Improving global sentiment, driven by expectations of a
Greek accord and positive economic statistics from the U.S. --in
particular unemployment figures -- helped send Russian stocks
higher this week,” Alexander Zakharov, head of international
equity sales at Finam Investment Co. in Moscow, said by e-mail.
“Russian stocks are still relatively cheap, which is driving
fund inflows.”  Russia country funds attracted $109 million in the week
after $108 million of flows the week before, according to Troika
Dialog, which cited EPFR Global data in an e-mailed note today.  The Micex is up 12 percent this year and trades at 6.1
times analysts’ earnings estimates for member companies.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa index, which is valued at 10.6 times estimated
earnings, has climbed 14 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Shanghai Composite Index trades at 9.7 times
estimated earnings, and the BSE India Sensitive Index has a
ratio of 16.2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  