-- Santorum Picks Own ‘Winners and Losers’ Even as He Chides Obama
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-02-17T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/santorum-picks-own-winners-and-losers-even-as-he-chides-obama.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Santorum  says he doesn’t believe the U.S. government should
pick the economy’s “winners and losers.”  Except for manufacturers. And small businesses. And
families.  Speaking in  Detroit , the former Pennsylvania senator
sketched a plan he said would balance the federal budget in five
years, including rolling back non-defense spending on many
programs to 2008 levels, while rejuvenating the good-paying
factory jobs that once characterized the Motor City.  “We do need a strong economic platform to help the private
sector compete,” he said in a luncheon speech yesterday to the
Detroit Economic Club before the Feb. 28 Michigan primary.  As Santorum campaigns in the industrial heartland, he
proposes eliminating the corporate income tax for manufacturers
and halving the 35 percent rate for other companies. Even some
Republican-leaning economists were skeptical about extending
special help to one area of the economy such as manufacturing.  “It’s a bad idea to single out a particular sector that
way,” said Alan Viard, a former economist in President  George W. Bush ’s administration who is now a scholar at the  American
Enterprise Institute  in Washington. “Economists assume that,
under normal conditions, markets will allocate resources
efficiently,” he added. “So the tax system should be
neutral.”  Vision for Future  Santorum, 53, says the help is needed to reverse the long-
running erosion in manufacturing employment and buttress stable
communities.  “This is an economic vision that doesn’t go back, but goes
forward,” he said. “We’ll put America back to work.”  Although manufacturers have added 404,000 jobs since
January 2010, there are still 5.5 million fewer factory jobs
today than in July 2000. Yet manufacturing output is 2.2 percent
greater today, according to the U.S. Federal Reserve.  Economists say the job losses are the result of more
intense worldwide competition following the end of the Cold War
and higher productivity because of automation.  “We can’t go overboard in thinking we can go back to the
middle-class manufacturing jobs we had in the ‘50s and ‘60s when
we didn’t have the global competition we have now,” said
 Jeffrey Bergstrand , a finance professor at the University of
Notre Dame and a former Federal Reserve Bank of  Boston 
economist.  Recalling Obama Pledge  Many major manufacturers already pay less than the
statutory 35 percent tax rate, according to their Securities and
Exchange Commission filings.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  pays an effective
27 percent rate while  Boeing Co. (BA)  pays 25.6 percent and  Johnson &
Johnson  21.5 percent.  Santorum’s hopes of reviving manufacturing employment are
reminiscent of President Barack Obama’s election-year plan to
“bring manufacturing back.” The president, who this week
toured the Master Lock manufacturing site in  Milwaukee , last
month unveiled a six-pronged plan to eliminate tax incentives
for companies to move offshore and create new lures for them to
bring jobs home.  In recent months, several companies -- including  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  -- have announced plans to
return work to the U.S. from overseas facilities. GE brought
production of its energy-efficient water heaters to its
Louisville, Kentucky, facility while Ford is shifting medium-
duty truck production from  Mexico  to Avon Lake,  Ohio , which will
preserve 2,000 jobs there.  Repatriating Funds  Santorum also wants to use tax incentives to persuade
multinational corporations to return some of the cash they have
stockpiled abroad back to the U.S. He would allow corporations
to bring their foreign profits to the U.S. on a tax-free basis,
so long as they used the money to build new factories.  Corporations have $1.4 trillion overseas, according to J.P.
Morgan Securities LLC. With existing factories operating well
below capacity, lack of demand, not taxes, may explain why. The
nation is using 77 percent of its  manufacturing potential , less
than during the low point of the 1990-91 recession, according to
the Fed.  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR) , for example, has $5.9 billion parked
in its non-U.S. subsidiaries, according to SEC filings. Chief
Executive Officer David Farr told investors this week that
rising labor costs in  China  meant the company would rely more on
automated manufacturing there, rather than on low-cost labor.  On to Mexico  “We’re not about taking stuff and moving it back other
places,” Farr told investors in a Feb. 14 conference call.
“The place I’ll move it will be Mexico.”  Santorum also suggested that manufacturers are having
trouble finding skilled workers because of extended  unemployment
benefits . With up to 99 weeks of jobless benefits available,
“people can make choices they couldn’t otherwise make,” he
said.  Santorum, who is leading former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney in Michigan polls, issued no new proposals yesterday. He
reiterated his call for tilting the  tax code  to help families by
tripling the current deduction, which Viard said would
“increase still further the percentage of people who don’t pay
any income tax.”  Santorum also vowed to roll back Obama administration
regulations, which he said were hurting small businesses.  “Big business doesn’t mind big government,” he said. “It
gives them a comparative advantage.”  Criticizing Bush  He criticized both the Bush and Obama administrations for
bailing out the auto and financial industries, which he
described as “picking winners and losers” and said the result
of a greater government role in the economy “is not going to be
a good one.”  Santorum said he wouldn’t have rescued General Motors Co.
and Chrysler Group LLC because the automakers would have
recovered without federal assistance.  The companies would be “alive and equally as well, or
better off, than they are now,” he told the crowd of about 300.
“The markets would have reacted to restructure it to be more
competitive.”  GM yesterday said it earned $9.19 billion last year, the
largest annual profit in the 103-year history of the company.  Santorum saved his harshest language for the president,
whom he accused of “suffocating this economy.” While Obama has
presided over the weakest economic recovery since the end of
World War II, third-quarter corporate profits of $2 trillion
were 19 percent higher than their pre-recession peak five years
earlier, the Commerce Department said.  Spend Less  If elected president, Santorum said the federal government
will spend less money every year en route to a balanced budget
in the fifth year. Since 1948, government  spending  has increased
every year except for 1954, 1955 and 1965, according to the
Office of Management and Budget.  He pledged to tackle spending immediately on so-called
entitlements. That includes accelerating Representative Paul Ryan’s proposed changes to Medicare, which would turn the
government insurance program for the elderly into a voucher
system, in which recipients would purchase private insurance.  Santorum’s tax plan would make the job of balancing the
budget more difficult, reducing federal revenue in 2015 by $900
billion to $1.3 trillion, depending upon whether the Bush-era
tax cuts were allowed to expire at the end of this year,
according to the nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center  in  Washington .  Wider Deficit  The White House projects a $610 billion  deficit  in 2015,
meaning Santorum’s proposed tax cuts could as much as triple the
amount of spending reduction required that year to eliminate the
government’s red ink.  “It’s a really, really large  tax cut  relative even to full
extension of the expiring tax cuts,” says  Donald Marron , the
center’s director and a former member of the White House Council
of Economic Advisers under Republican George W. Bush. “It’s
very hard to see how you’re able to pay for that.”  Santorum vows to cut $5 trillion from federal spending in
five years, an unprecedented shrinkage in government outlays
even as the U.S. population gets larger and older. One sign of
the challenge: Between this year and 2015, Medicare will add
more than 5 million new patients, according to the latest
Medicare trustees’ report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  