-- Santorum Is Endorsed by Former Romney Supporter
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/santorum-said-to-win-backing-of-former-romney-supporter-in-ohio.html
Rick Santorum  was endorsed in the
Republican presidential race by Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine, another sign he is gaining ground on rival  Mitt Romney .  Standing next to Santorum yesterday on the steps of the
Ohio statehouse in Columbus, DeWine said he backed Romney last
October because he thought the former Massachusetts governor was
the best candidate to defeat President  Barack Obama . DeWine said
he no longer believes that after the campaign run by Romney,
with support from an outside political action committee, Restore
Our Future.  “To be elected president, you have to do more than tear
down your opponent; you have to give the American people a
reason to vote for you,” DeWine said. “Rick Santorum has done
that. Sadly, Governor Romney has not.”  The endorsement is a boost for Santorum, whose standing in
the polls rose after wins in three states last week. He is now
leading in polls in  Michigan , which holds its primary on Feb.
28, and in Ohio, one of 11 states with a contest on March 6,
Super Tuesday.  A victory for Santorum in Michigan, Romney’s native state,
would position him as the leading candidate among the party’s
anti-abortion-rights and anti-tax activists.  ‘True Conservative’  “Rick Santorum is a true conservative,” DeWine said at a
Republican dinner last night in Georgetown, Ohio. “He is a man
of great principle.”  Santorum is using his background -- he’s the grandson of a
unionized coal miner and the son of an Italian immigrant -- and
his work representing a Western Pennsylvania steel district to
woo manufacturing workers in Michigan,  Ohio  and other Midwestern
states.  “You have an opportunity to speak loudly,” Santorum said
at an appearance in Mason, Ohio. “Give a clear contrast between
the two leaders who want to lead this country. Give America a
clear choice.”  Though Romney was born and raised in Michigan, his wealthy
upbringing and work as a private-equity executive has made it
hard for him to connect with working-class voters.  Santorum and DeWine served in the Senate together before
both lost their seats when Democrats made gains in the 2006
elections. DeWine came back four years later to win election as
Ohio attorney general.  ‘A Little Symmetry’  “There’s a little symmetry here, and the lesson learned
that ‘06 was about as bad an election year as you can have,
particularly in Ohio and  Pennsylvania ,” Santorum told
reporters. “We’re the best positioned to win these key
states.”  Romney backers dismissed DeWine’s switch, saying his
backing would have little influence on the outcome of the race.
Before endorsing Romney, DeWine had backed former Minnesota
Governor  Tim Pawlenty ’s presidential bid, which ended in August.  “The swing of Mike DeWine from one candidate to another is
not a significant thing,” said former New Hampshire Governor
John Sununu, a Romney backer, on a call with reporters. “The
most important thing you can get from an endorsement is their
organization and frankly, as I understand it, attorney generals
don’t have that much of a political organization.”  Early voting started Jan. 31 in Ohio, which is one of the
11 states conducting nomination contests on March 6.  Escalating Attacks  The endorsement comes as attacks escalate in the Michigan
race, with Romney and Santorum running advertising on local
television.  Santorum began airing two commercials this morning,
including one that shows a Romney look-alike trying to shoot mud
at Santorum. The ad, called “Rombo,” criticizes Romney and a
political committee that supports him for spending millions of
dollars on advertisements attacking Republicans.  Romney’s newest ad, which also began airing yesterday,
attacks Santorum for pursuing the parochial spending projects
known as earmarks when he was a senator.  The other remaining Republican presidential contenders --
former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and U.S. Representative
 Ron Paul  of  Texas  -- haven’t actively campaigned in Michigan.
Gingrich has been in the Los Angeles area and Paul held rallies
in Idaho and Washington state.  Gingrich hasn’t aired a television ad since Jan. 31, when
he lost the Florida primary to Romney, and a political committee
independently supporting his campaign was last on television on
Feb. 7, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which
tracks advertising.  Rick Tyler , a spokesman for the group,
Winning Our Future, said it began a pro-Gingrich radio
advertising campaign around Republican-leaning talk shows this
week.  Internet Ads  Paul hasn’t been on television since Jan. 29, CMAG data
show. A political committee backing his candidacy is focusing
its spending on  Internet advertising .  CNN  this week canceled a debate among the candidates
scheduled for March 1 in  Georgia , another of the states with a
March 6 contest.  The Romney campaign had announced he wouldn’t participate
in the debate, saying in a statement he would be “campaigning
in other parts of the country.” CNN said Paul’s campaign also
declined an invitation to the gathering.  The decision was a blow to Gingrich, whose debate
appearances have fueled his campaign.  Sheldon Adelson , a Las Vegas casino billionaire, might be
considering a $10 million donation to Winning Our Future by the
end of the month, according to CNN and  CBS News .  Ron Reese , a spokesman to Adelson, wouldn’t confirm those
reports. Adelson’s family has contributed at least $11 million
to Winning Our Future, according to FEC reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  