-- Time Warner Cable Ends Dispute With MSG After Jeremy Lin’s Winning Streak
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-02-18T07:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/msg-time-warner-said-to-reach-deal-ending-fee-dispute-amid-lin-streak.html
Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG)  and Time
Warner Cable Inc. reached an agreement on a new contract, ending
a seven-week stalemate that kept the operator’s 2.8 million
local subscribers from watching the  New York Knicks  and their
Jeremy Lin-led winning streak.  Alex Dudley , a spokesman for New York-based Time Warner
Cable, declined to discuss terms in a phone interview yesterday.
The system carried the Knicks’ 89-85 loss last night to the  New
Orleans Hornets , ending New York’s streak at seven.  Lin’s success, dubbed Linsanity, led the two sides to a
face-to-face meeting this week. The attention surrounding Lin
and the team played a role in pushing the two into an agreement,
 Chris Marangi , a portfolio manager at Gamco Investors Inc., said
in a telephone interview.  “Linsanity helped,” said Marangi, based in Rye, New York,
whose funds own about 5 million MSG shares and 500,000  Time
Warner Cable (TWC)  shares. “Time Warner Cable realistically couldn’t
have dropped MSG -- it’s too important to too many fans in New
York to not be carried. Both sides probably gave a little.”  David Joyce , an analyst at New York-based Miller Tabak &
Co., also cited Lin’s success as helping to pressure the two
sides into an agreement. The Knicks, buoyed by the Harvard
University-educated Lin, who wasn’t drafted by a National
Basketball Association team, have won seven straight to even
their record at 15-15.  Time Warner Cable  rose  0.8 percent to $77.66 yesterday in
New York. MSG, based in New York,  advanced  3.1 percent to
$32.85. The stock has gained 12 percent since Feb. 4, when Lin
came off the bench to score 25 points against the  New Jersey
Nets  to begin New York’s winning streak.  Disputed Rates  Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable provider
with about 12 million subscribers, had said MSG was asking for a
53 percent increase in carriage fees, a figure MSG disputed.  Cable and satellite-TV operators pay more than $4.50 a
month per subscriber for MSG and MSG Plus, according to
researcher SNL Kagan. Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer
Glenn Britt has publicly supported the idea of putting sports on
separate tiers from basic cable to give non-sports fans cheaper
bills.  MSG, controlled by New York’s Dolan family and led by
Chairman James Dolan, had organized viewing parties during the
dispute so that fans could watch the Knicks and Rangers of the
National Hockey League. MSG’s lineup also includes games of
NHL’s Buffalo Sabres.  ‘Annoying Consumers’  Dudley acknowledged the help of  New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo , New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  and NBA
Commissioner David Stern in the negotiating process.  “They were leaving money on the table and annoying
consumers and it is not good to annoy consumers,” Cuomo said
today on  The Governor David Paterson Show  on WOR radio in New
York. “I believe Jeremy Lin heightened it. That heightened the
pressure because people really wanted to see the program.”  Schneiderman said his office has worked with Time Warner
Cable and MSG over the past month to help resolve the dispute.  “We are pleased that both parties have reached an
agreement that will finally allow Knicks, Rangers, and Sabres
fans to enjoy the rest of this season’s games,” Schneiderman
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  