-- MSG Under Pressure to Strike Cable Deal While ‘Linsanity’ Lasts
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-17T18:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/msg-under-pressure-to-strike-cable-deal-while-linsanity-lasts-for-knicks.html
Jeremy Lin’s rise to fame has more
than doubled ratings at  MSG (MSG)  network, putting renewed pressure on
parent Madison Square Garden Co. to strike a deal with  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  in their dispute over carriage fees.  A blackout has prevented about 2.8 million local Time
Warner Cable subscribers from watching most of the New York
Knicks point guard’s games in his rise from backup to National
Basketball Association Eastern Conference Player of the Week.  Lin’s success has led the two sides back to a face-to-face
meeting this week after a two-month standoff. Time Warner Cable
is facing angry fans and customer cancellations. For MSG,
there’s urgency to get a contract now, while the “Linsanity”
celebrated on T-Shirts sold all over  New York  lasts, according
to Chris Marangi, portfolio manager at Gamco Investors Inc.  “MSG loses all its leverage once the season ends, so it’s
a game of chicken,” said Marangi, based in Rye, New York, whose
funds own about 5 million MSG shares and 500,000 Time Warner
Cable shares. “They really need to get a deal done sooner
rather than later.”  Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable provider
with about 12 millions customers, has said MSG is asking for a
53 percent increase in carriage fees, a figure MSG disputed.
Time Warner Cable’s customers aren’t the only ones missing some
of the Knicks’ games:  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the satellite-TV
provider, doesn’t carry MSG either after failing to reach a
contract.  While Lin captivates his basketball fans, he isn’t giving
MSG an upper hand, said  Maureen Huff , a spokeswoman at New York-
based Time Warner Cable. MSG was on a basic cable package, which
means there are customers paying for the network who may not
care about the Knicks, Huff said.  “We have to protect all of our customers,” said Huff.  ‘Fair Value’  The two sides had a face-to-face conversation this week,
MSG Media President  Mike Bair  said on WFAN radio. MSG wants Time
Warner Cable to recognize the network’s “fair market value,”
Bair said in an e-mail.  Customers may begin to turn against Time Warner Cable as
Lin’s popularity grows, said John Tinker, an analyst at Maxim
Group LLC in New York.  In the past week, Lin has outscored Los Angeles Lakers
guard  Kobe Bryant  and received kudos from President  Barack Obama . New Twitter followers include former  General Electric Co. (GE) 
Chief Executive Officer  Jack Welch , former heavyweight champion
 Mike Tyson , and Vinnie Guadagnino from MTV’s “Jersey Shore”
reality show.  ‘Strong Argument’  The Harvard graduate has made the Knicks more watchable,
and he’s attractive to audiences that would normally ignore NBA
games, Tinker said.  “MSG has a strong argument,” Tinker said. “They’re
giving people what they want. So why shouldn’t they charge Time
Warner Cable more for it?”  Time Warner Cable still has leverage. MSG is losing money
by not doing a deal -- in terms of affiliate fees it doesn’t get
from the cable company and increased ad dollars MSG isn’t
getting from the boosted ratings. And not all Knicks games air
on MSG Network -- some are available on national networks,
including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and ESPN and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s
TNT, which Time Warner Cable carries.  This will allow Time Warner Cable customers to see Lin play
against some of the NBA’s best teams, including the defending
champions, the  Dallas Mavericks , and LeBron James’s Miami Heat.  If the Knicks are in the hunt for a playoff berth, eight of
the team’s 13 games in April are set to be carried by national
channels, barring scheduling changes. MSG doesn’t have exclusive
rights to any playoff game.  ‘Strategic Differentiator’  Time Warner Cable’s risk to lose customers might be
minimized by the fact that many Manhattan residents are unable
to get satellite TV because tall buildings obstruct signals,
according to  David Joyce , an analyst at New York-based Miller
Tabak & Co. And not all buildings are wired for  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS or RCN Corp., a smaller cable
provider that serves certain areas of  New York City , he said.  “There may be only a few hundred thousand subscribers at
risk,” said Joyce. “Having MSG is a strategic differentiator
for some, though.”  Cable and satellite-TV operators pay more than $4.50 a
month per subscriber for MSG and MSG Plus, according to
researcher SNL Kagan. Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer
Glenn Britt has publicly supported the idea of putting sports on
separate tiers from basic cable to give non-sports fans cheaper
bills.  Time Warner Cable rose 0.2 percent to $77.17 at 1:04 p.m.
New York time. MSG, based in New York, declined 0.7 percent to
$31.66. As of yesterday, the stock had gained 8.1½ percent since
Feb. 4, when Lin came off the bench to score 25 points against
the  New Jersey Nets  to begin New York’s seven-game winning
streak.  Fans have taken to blogs and Twitter to express their
discontent with the cable situation, clamoring for the chance to
see Lin in each game he plays. Even Knicks guard Bill Walker
weighed in with his frustration.  “Time Warner Cable and MSG need to get together and let
the fans watch their games,” said Walker in an interview on
Feb. 15. “Some people out there are very mad about that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  