-- Siemens to Buy U.K. Tidal Turbine Maker in Next Few Weeks
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-02-17T17:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/siemens-to-take-over-u-k-tidal-turbine-maker-in-next-few-weeks.html
Siemens AG (SIE) , the largest engineering
company in Europe, will buy the shares it doesn’t already own in
U.K. tidal technology developer Marine Current Turbines Ltd.  Siemens has raised its stake in the Bristol-based company
to more than 90 percent from 45 percent and plans to acquire the
remaining shares “in the next few weeks,” said Eva-Maria
Baumann, a Siemens spokeswoman. The price wasn’t disclosed.  “We’re convinced of the technology and the market
potential for tidal energy, especially in the U.K.,” Baumann
said today in a phone interview. “Tidal energy is a perfect
match for the fluctuating  wind energy  as you know hundreds of
years in advance how the tides will be.”  Energy from the waves and tides has the potential to meet
as much as 20 percent of current U.K. electricity demand,
according to the government. The country is aiming for 15
percent of its energy to come from renewable sources by 2020. No
commercial marine tidal project is operating now.  The turbine maker at the end of 2010 had 3.4 million pounds
($5.4 million) cash and a loss of 675,678 in the year, according
to the company’s most recent accounts filed on Sept. 6 on the
U.K.’s Companies House website.  Siemens bought the shares from a “large majority” of
shareholders, Andrew Tyler, MCT’s chief executive officer, said
today by e-mail.  Blow to the U.K.  “The takeover of MCT by Siemens will be seen in the U.K.
as a blow to the country’s hopes of building a domestically
owned marine energy industry,” said Angus McCrone, senior
analyst at London-based researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
“MCT has been the frontrunner in the tidal stream sector
worldwide in terms of having a project of more than 1-megawatt
operating throughout the year and generating electricity.”  “Siemens has taken a view that MCT’s technology could be
one of the eventual winners, but there are still plenty of rival
firms nursing the hope that their own devices will end up as the
industry standard,” he said.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is working with International Power Plc and
tidal turbine maker Atlantis Resources Corp. to develop a 400-
megawatt project off the coast of Scotland. Rolls-Royce Holdings
Plc owns turbine maker Tidal Generation Ltd. DCNS SA, the French
engineering company, owns a stake in Irish tidal energy business
OpenHydro Group Ltd., and Andritz AG owns a share of  Norway ’s
Hammerfest Stroem SA.  Acquisitions Ahead  New Energy Finance last year predicted more technology
developers will be acquired by bigger companies.  MCT’s SeaGen demonstration project in  Northern Ireland  has
fed more than 3 gigawatt-hours of electricity into the grid
since it began operating in 2008, Baumann said. Siemens plans
two additional projects totaling 18 megawatts in  Scotland  and
Wales. The company said Oct. 21 it was looking for as much as
100 million pounds for these.  It’s now seeking  capital investment  from “major
companies” with an interest in tidal power projects, Tyler
said.  The U.K. and Scottish governments in October increased
support for marine energy by proposing to raise the number of
so-called Renewable Obligation Certificates to five. This is up
from the previous two offered in  England  and three offered in
Scotland and means tidal energy generators may be eligible from
2013 to receive about 229 pounds a megawatt-hour of electricity
at current prices. MCT said in April any sale of the company was
dependent on U.K. subsidies.  The latest estimates from New Energy Finance show tidal
stream power costs about $402 a megawatt-hour. In comparison,
coal-fired power costs $57 a megawatt-hour.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  