-- Singapore Exports Drop Adds to Signs of European Crisis Fallout: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-02-17T04:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/singapore-s-exports-dropped-in-january-as-electronics-shipments-plunged.html
Singapore ’s exports fell for the
first time in three months in January on lower electronics and
petrochemical shipments, as Europe’s debt crisis crimped demand
and the Chinese New Year holiday shortened the working month.  Non-oil domestic  exports  slid 2.1 percent from a year
earlier, after a 9 percent gain in December, the trade promotion
agency said in a statement today. The median of 15 estimates in
a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 1.6 percent decline. Shipments
to Europe plunged 14.5 percent.  “It’s too early to say if exports have bottomed out as the
electronics sector still remains uncertain, given there is still
weakness in Europe,” said Chow Penn Nee, an economist at United
Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “With the U.S. showing signs
of improvement, we may see better numbers in the second half of
this year for electronics.”  Asian stocks rose today, with a regional benchmark gauge
set for a ninth weekly rally on signs the U.S. expansion is
gaining strength after a report yesterday showed Americans filed
the fewest claims for jobless benefits since 2008. Singapore’s
gross domestic product shrank less than initially estimated last
quarter, a report showed yesterday, suggesting the economy is
withstanding Europe’s fiscal woes.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 1.2 percent to 127.32 at
1:04 p.m. in  Tokyo , set for its longest run of weekly gains
since December 2005. Stocks reversed a global slump yesterday
after the U.S. jobs data that showed claims slid to a four-year
low, while housing starts and the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s economic index topped forecasts.  Second Recession  Singapore’s exports also fell as Asian nations celebrated
the Lunar New Year in January this year. Factories from China to
 Vietnam  typically shut during the holiday and reduce production.
Demand for goods made in the region has also weakened as Europe
faces its second recession in less than three years,
contributing to an economic contraction in Singapore last
quarter.  Singapore’s non-oil  exports  increased a seasonally adjusted
0.9 percent last month from December, when they climbed a
revised 13.5 percent, today’s report showed. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg had predicted a 9 percent decline.  “Though many external risks remain, we are finally seeing
signs that export growth may stabilize or begin to pick up
slowly in the coming months,” said Vincent Conti, a Singapore-
based analyst at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Productivity Improvements  Policy makers from  Indonesia  to the  Philippines  have eased
borrowing costs as the European crisis hurts demand for their
countries’ exports. Singapore will unveil its annual budget
today, with the government expected to announce measures to
address the soaring cost of living and help citizens cope with a
slowing economy, as well as push for improvements in
productivity.  In Europe today,  Germany  may say producer prices rose 3.2
percent in January from a year earlier, after climbing 4 percent
in December, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. A U.K. report will show retail sales
declined last month from December, a separate survey showed.  The U.S. Labor Department may say the cost of living rose
0.3 percent in January from a month earlier, according to the
median estimate of economists. An index of leading indicators by
the New York-based Conference Board probably rose for a fourth
month, economists predict.  Fiscal Crisis  Signs that the world’s largest economy will keep growing
may support demand for Asian goods. North American orders for
semiconductor equipment rose 18.5 percent in December from a
month earlier, a trade group report showed last month.  Even so, a rebound in Singapore’s shipments may be damped
by  Europe ’s protracted fiscal crisis. Gross domestic product in
the 17-nation euro area fell 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter
of 2011 from the prior three months and the  European Central
Bank  said this week professional forecasters predict a 0.1
percent contraction this year.  Singapore’s electronics shipments by companies including
contract manufacturer Venture Corp. fell 10.9 percent in January
from a year earlier, after declining a revised 4.2 percent the
previous month.  “The manufacturing sector, and the electronics cluster in
particular, have been hit hard by the weakness in final demand
from the U.S. and Europe,” said Leif Eskesen, an economist in
Singapore at HSBC Holdings Plc. “This is likely to persist.
Moreover, slower growth in  China  and the rest of  Asia  will also
dampen external demand in 2012.”  Japan ’s exports probably dropped the most in eight months
in January, a Feb. 20 report may show. Shipments fell 9.4
percent last month from a year earlier, after an 8 percent
decline in December, economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted.
On the same day,  Taiwan  may say export orders for January fell
4.8 percent from a year earlier, after a 0.7 percent decline the
previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  