-- Singapore Shifts Priority From Growth to Curb Income Inequality
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-02-17T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/singapore-increases-aid-to-poor-boosts-incomes-of-older-workers-in-budget.html
Singapore  intensified efforts to
address the island’s income gap in its budget, with measures to
boost aid for the poor and curb foreign-worker inflows that
signal it’s putting less priority on pursuing high growth rates.  The government will cut the proportion of foreign workers
that companies can hire and may consider further increasing
levies for employing them, Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said in his  budget  speech in Parliament yesterday.
It will partially reimburse businesses for older Singaporean
workers on their payrolls, and low-income and elderly households
will receive cash and utility rebates.  “The government is paying more attention to the standard
of living for Singaporeans instead of just headline growth,”
said Kun Lung Wu, a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG. “Tightening the labor supply in the short-term will
lower the growth potential. In the longer term, we will see
adjustment.”  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has moved to address public
discontent over  rising prices  and an influx of foreigners after
his ruling party suffered its smallest electoral win since
independence in 1965. Measures announced yesterday to tighten
the inflow of foreigners follow similar steps taken in the past
two years which have increased the cost of hiring overseas
workers at hotels, offices, factories and construction sites.  “We are making important moves to build a fair and
inclusive society,” Shanmugaratnam said yesterday. “We have to
reduce our dependence on foreign labor, and do much more to
build an economy driven by higher skills, innovation and
productivity, as the basis for achieving higher incomes for
Singaporeans.”  Competition for Jobs  Singapore, ranked by the  World Bank  as the easiest place to
do business, has cut taxes in recent years to spur investment,
prompting companies to hire hundreds of thousands of people from
overseas. Foreigners and permanent residents make up more than a
third of the nation’s 5.2 million-strong population and
opposition parties have said that the large numbers of overseas
laborers have depressed local wages.  Since the middle of 2010, the government has increased
levies imposed on companies such as  SembCorp Marine Ltd. (SMM)  and
Genting Singapore Plc every six months for hiring non-
Singaporeans. Still, the foreign workforce has grown 7.5 percent
annually over the last two years, Shanmugaratnam said. The
country may consider further increases in the levy beyond July
2013 depending on the growth of overseas labor in the next 12
months, he said yesterday.  “We have no alternative but to slow down the growth of our
foreign workforce,” he said, adding that the increasing
dependence is unsustainable. “It will test the limits of our
space and infrastructure, despite our efforts to build more
housing and expand our public transport system.”  Tight Labor Market  Singapore will reduce the maximum proportion of foreign
workers that companies can hire in the manufacturing and
services industries, Shanmugaratnam said. From July 1, they
won’t be allowed to bring in new foreign workers beyond the new
ceiling, he said.  Businesses must “adapt to the permanent reality of a tight
labor market,” he said. The  jobless rate  averaged 2 percent in
2011, a 14-year low.  Companies will also have to pay more into the state-run
pension fund for employees aged 50 years to 65 years, who are
currently receiving lower rates of employer contributions than
younger workers, the finance minister said. The retirement
savings can be used for mortgage payments, hospital bills,
education fees and investments in assets such as stocks.  Pension Payments  The increase in pension payments will cost companies an
additional S$190 million a year, the finance minister said.
Still, the government will spend about S$470 million annually
for the next five years to subsidize the hiring of about 80
percent of workers aged above 50, he said.  “Inequality has increased significantly over the last
decade,” Credit Suisse’s Wu said. “Given the structure of the
economy has been changing quite rapidly, many people, especially
the older workers, are at risk of being left behind because they
are less educated.”  The government predicts a surplus of S$1.3 billion for the
financial year starting April 1, or about 0.4 percent of gross
domestic product, Shanmugaratnam said. The surplus for the year
ending March 31 is estimated at S$2.3 billion, or 0.7 percent of
GDP, he said.  The city has added about 1 million people since the
beginning of 2005 as the government allowed more immigration to
make up for a declining birth rate. The influx contributed to
crowded public transportation and more competition for jobs,
public housing and places in schools, fueling voter anger.  Gap Widens  The gap between Singapore’s most affluent and poorest
people widened last year. The government will introduce a
permanent program that will provide cash, utility rebates and a
contribution to the medical component of the pension fund
annually for the elderly and low-income households, he said. The
administration will set aside S$3.6 billion to fund the
initiative over the next five years.  The government will help public transport operators
increase their bus fleets by 20 percent over the next five years
by funding the cost of 550 such vehicles, Shanmugaratnam said.
Transport companies, which include  ComfortDelGro Corp. (CD) , the
biggest operator of buses and taxis, will add another 250 buses,
the minister said.  Singapore will double its annual health-care expenditure to
S$8 billion over the next five years, adding hospital beds and
increasing subsidies for nursing homes, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  