-- SIPC Tells Federal Judge Stanford Investments Aren’t Eligible for Payouts
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-17T01:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/sipc-tells-federal-judge-stanford-investments-aren-t-eligible-for-payouts.html
The Securities Investor Protection
Corp. told a U.S. judge that federal law prevents it from
setting up a claims process for the victims of R. Allen Stanford’s alleged investment fraud.  SIPC, a nonprofit corporation funded by the brokerage
industry, said in a court filing today that there is no basis to
require it to guarantee investments with an entity that isn’t a
member, in this case Antigua-based Stanford International Bank
Ltd.  The Securities Investor Protection Act “does not even
permit, much less require, the initiation of a liquidation for
purchasers of the offshore bank certificates of deposit at issue
here,” SIPC said in the filing in U.S. District Court in
 Washington .  U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins last week told SIPC to
explain why it shouldn’t be ordered to start a liquidation
proceeding in federal court in  Texas  to handle more than
$1 billion in possible claims tied to Stanford’s alleged fraud.  At issue is whether more than 7,000 brokerage customers who
invested in the alleged $7 billion Ponzi scheme run by Stanford
are entitled to have their losses covered by SIPC.  In June, the Securities and Exchange Commission told SIPC
to start a process that could grant as much as $500,000 for each
Stanford client -- the same maximum amount it offers in any
case. After SIPC balked, the SEC for the first time sued the
congressionally chartered group.  Madoff Coverage  SIPC is responsible for providing coverage for individual
investors who lose money or securities held by insolvent or
failing member brokerage firms. It has agreed to cover losses
sustained by victims of  Bernard Madoff ’s multibillion-dollar
Ponzi scheme and investors who may have lost money in the
October collapse of commodities broker  MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) .  The SEC sued SIPC in December to compel coverage. Investors
and their advocates in Congress say SIPC is deliberately taking
a narrow view of the law to protect brokers from higher
assessments.  In a hearing last month, Eugene Assaf, a lawyer for SIPC,
said a liquidation proceeding would cause significant expense
for the insurer.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Securities Investor Protection Corp., 11-mc-00678, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  