-- Slain Virginia Student Was Angry Days Before Death, Defense Witnesses Say
-- B y   B o n n i e   V .   W i n s t o n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-17T21:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/slain-virginia-student-was-angry-days-before-death-defense-witnesses-say.html
Days before a  University of Virginia 
lacrosse player allegedly killed his girlfriend, she hit him
with her purse and demanded to know if he’d exchanged  text
messages  with two women, according to testimony at the 24-year-
old’s murder trial.  George W. Huguely V, seeking to portray the 2010 death of
fellow senior and women’s lacrosse team member Yeardley Love as
accidental and unintended, called two witnesses who described an
incident at Huguely’s apartment a few days before she was found
dead.  “She asked who we were and she asked if George had been
texting us,” said Caroline Wattenmaker, then a high school
student visiting the university who Huguely took back to his
apartment after meeting her and a friend at a club. “She hit
George with her purse and he got up off the sofa and backed
away,” she told the jury in state court in Charlottesville,
 Virginia . “He asked her to leave.”  Huguely is charged with first-degree murder, robbery,
burglary, breaking and entering, grand larceny and murder in the
commission of a robbery. He faces as long as life in prison if
convicted.  Another Room  Her companion that day, Alice Billmire, testified that Love
appeared to be frustrated. Billmire said she was in another room
at the time Wattenmaker testified the altercation took place.
The two women described Huguely as “polite” and “perfectly
nice.”  Love’s badly bruised body was discovered by a friend and
teammate who went to Love’s room in her apartment about 2 a.m.
on May 3, 2010, and found her face down in a pool of blood on
her pillow.  Huguely told police investigators that he entered Love’s
apartment through an unlocked front door and then kicked open
the door to her bedroom, where police found her body. Huguely
said the two had an altercation during which he “shook Love and
her head repeatedly hit the wall,” according to an affidavit
filed by prosecutors.  Prosecutors spent nine days presenting their case, which
included testimony from former students and medical experts. The
government wrapped up its evidence on Feb. 15.  In addition to the two women, the jury heard from Huguely’s
aunt, Alina Massaro. She narrated video played for the jury that
was taken from a surveillance camera at a Charlottesville
restaurant. In the video, taken two days before the alleged
murder, Huguely, who Massaro referred to as Georgie, is seen
hugging his 17-and 18-year-old cousins and holding hands with
Love.  Impact Profile  Michael Woodhouse, a bio-mechanical consultant and
associate research professor at Eastern Virginia Medical School,
testified today that he saw no evidence of an impact profile on
a piece of drywall that came from Love’s apartment.  Today’s trial was cut short because one of Huguely’s
defense lawyers was sick. The illness prevented the defense team
from having its medical experts testify.  The trial is scheduled to resume tomorrow.  The case is Commonwealth of Virginia v. Huguely, 11-102,
Circuit Court for the City of Charlottesville,
(Charlottesville).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie V.  Winston in Richmond, Virginia, at 
 bvwinston@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  