-- Small Hedge Funds Draw Investments as Bigger Rivals Stumble
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-02-17T10:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/small-hedge-funds-draw-investments-as-bigger-rivals-stumble.html
Richard Maraviglia spent January
flying to Zurich,  New York ,  Chicago  and Miami to raise $250
million for his hedge fund.  Maraviglia, who now oversees about $610 million for Carlson
Capital LP from London, raised the money because the almost 40
percent gain he posted last year made him a rarity: a hedge-fund
manager who made money trading stocks.  Hedge funds  were  down  an
average 5 percent in 2011 and those focused on equities fared
even worse, losing 8.3 percent, Hedge Fund Research Inc. says.  Though the largest hedge funds continue to attract the bulk
of the industry’s incoming money given their perceived lower
risk, Maraviglia has outperformed better-known rivals including
Paulson & Co., which manages $23 billion, and Lansdowne Partners
Ltd., with $12.5 billion, which made big bets on stocks in 2011
and had their worst years ever. The 42-year-old veteran of  Steve Cohen ’s SAC Capital Advisors LLC says small size made him nimble
as stocks gyrated and enabled his individual bets to make more
difference to the fund’s total returns.  “Larger hedge funds have been victims of their size and
the volatile markets in general,” said Andrew Lee, a  New York- 
based adviser at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s wealth-management unit,
which helps clients find emerging managers. “Smaller funds are
able to react quickly and so are better positioned.”  A January report published by Barclays found that about
two-thirds of hedge fund clients plan to increase investments
this year in firms managing less than $1 billion.  Overcrowded Trades  “It makes a lot of sense to invest in the speedboats over
the  oil tankers ,” said Ben Funk, head of research at London-
based Liongate Capital Management LLP, which has more than $3
billion allocated to various hedge funds.  Maraviglia, who manages Dallas-based Carlson Capital’s
Black Diamond Thematic Fund, told investors during his travels
last month that he started reducing bullish stock wagers in the
first half of 2011, correctly betting that policy makers in
 China  would take steps to curb inflation and the U.S. Federal
Reserve would end its program of buying $600 billion of
Treasuries. After a flat second quarter, the MSCI World Index
lost 17 percent in the third quarter.  He then bought equities when other investors sold positions
en masse in September, which made it easier for him to find
stocks whose performance was no longer correlated to broader
markets due to overcrowded trading. Black Diamond Thematic,
which Maraviglia founded with former SAC Capital senior analyst
Matthew Barkoff, gained about 4 percent in January.  Allocation Dilemma  “If you want strong outperformance, a smaller fund has a
better chance of producing that,” said Maraviglia, who plans to
close his hedge fund to new money after receiving commitments
from investors for the $250 million. “How big an allocation can
a big fund make to a great trading idea for it to make much of a
difference in their total portfolio?”  Like Maraviglia, LMR Partners LLP benefited from being
nimble. Its $750 million LMR Fund gained 38.7 percent last year
after rising 30.4 percent in 2010, according to investors. The
firm takes positions in currencies, bonds, stocks and
commodities for time horizons as short as a day, based on
economic data and price discrepancies spotted by computers.  Former UBS AG traders Benjamin Levine and Stefan Renold and
ex-Goldman Sachs Group Inc. traderAndrew Manuel kept size in
mind when they started London-based LMR in 2010. They stopped
taking money in April as assets grew to about $600 million, with
the majority of the firm’s capital coming from Donald Sussman’s
Paloma Partners LLC, said two people familiar with the matter.
They declined to be identified because the firm is private.  OVS Switches Tactics  When LMR decided in November to accept more money at a
higher performance fee of 30 percent, rather than the 20 percent
they had been charging, clients sought to invest $300 million,
the people said. LMR accepted about $150 million and closed the
fund. It’s now raising assets for a new hedge fund.  OVS Capital Management LLP has increased its assets to more
than $300 million from $18 million in January 2011 after making
profitable trades from a strategy that proved challenging for
hedge funds last year: betting on European companies they
thought were likely to be taken over.  When mergers dried up amid uncertainty over  Europe ’s debt
crisis, OVS switched tack into so-called relative-value trades
that try to benefit from small price differences in related
securities, according to a Jan. 12 note sent to clients. OVS
plans to close its hedge fund to new investors in April.  Smallest Funds  London-based OVS, led by ex-HBK Investments LP trader Sam
Morland, rose 7.8 percent last year and gained about 2 percent
in January. Other so-called event-driven hedge funds with a
European focus  fell  5.4 percent in 2011, according to Singapore-
based data firm Eurekahedge Pte.  Executives at LMR and OVS declined to comment.  Data from  Barclays Capital  shows that modestly sized hedge
funds are both the industry’s best and worst performers.
Worldwide, funds with less than $100 million of assets reaped an
annualized average gain of 10.1 percent from 2001 through 2010,
according to an April study published by the London-based
 securities firm . Firms managing between $100 million and $500
million returned 8.3 percent a year over the same period, and
those with more than $500 million of assets returned 8 percent.  The outperformance was more pronounced when Barclays
limited its study to firms with the best returns. The top
quartile of small hedge funds generated annual average returns
of 99 percent, while mid-sized firms rose 71 percent and the
biggest funds gained 60 percent.  Greater Downside  The opposite also proved true, with the worst-performing
small funds losing 39 percent a year between 2001 and 2010. Big
hedge-fund laggards had average losses of 27.6 percent over the
same time period.  “Investors should choose their small funds wisely,”
Barclays analysts wrote in the report. “If they select winners,
they have the potential to win big, but if they falter, the
downside is comparatively greater than larger funds.”  Volatility in financial stocks hurt large managers like
Paulson and Lansdowne last year.  John Paulson , 56, who made
billions of dollars betting against the U.S. housing market in
2007, incurred losses of 51 percent last year in one of his
firm’s biggest hedge funds on investments in  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
Bank of America Corp. Lansdowne, a stock-trading firm based in
London, was down 20 percent in its biggest fund after making
bullish wagers on banks including  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   Big Funds Rebound  Paulson addressed his critics in a letter sent to clients
this month, saying “some people have suggested that our
negative performance in 2011 was due to our size.” The firm
“outperformed the markets and our peers” in 2008, 2009 and
2010, all years when the hedge fund was bigger than it is now,
according to the letter, which was obtained by Bloomberg.  To be sure, both Paulson and Lansdowne have done well in
2012 as falling U.S. unemployment and the  European Central
Bank ’s help for lenders pushed the MSCI World Index to its best
start to the year since 1994. Paulson’s Advantage Plus Fund rose
5 percent in January and Lansdowne’s  U.K. Equity Fund (LANUESI)  gained 5.6
percent, the most since May 2009, according to Bloomberg data.
Hedge funds broadly  rose  2.6 percent last month, the industry’s
best January since 2006, according to Hedge Fund Research.  Paulson has reservations about the  bull market , telling
clients in his letter that  Greece  may default by the end of
March and trigger the breakup of the euro and a global
recession. His skepticism is matched by Liongate Capital’s Funk,
who cited the dangers of debt woes worsening in Portugal, Italy
and Spain and U.S. joblessness rising.  ‘Bumpy Year’  Liongate says that even if larger funds correctly predict a
downturn, they may be too big to easily change course and
protect their returns.  “There are lots of reasons why it will be a bumpy, highly
correlated year” that benefits smaller managers, Funk said.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX) , which
rises when investors predict price swings for stocks will
increase, jumped to a two-year high of 48 in August after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. government’s credit rating. The
gauge has since declined to 21 as of Feb. 15.  Hedge funds overseeing more than $5 billion drew 70 percent
of net capital raised by the industry in 2011, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research. Though that’s down from 80
percent in 2010, the largest firms are still the most able to
absorb the large checks written by clients such as pension funds
and sovereign-wealth funds.  “As institutions increase their allocation to hedge funds,
the focus on established managers with longer track records,
significant assets under management and robust infrastructure
will continue,” said William Smith, Morgan Stanley’s European
head of hedge fund capital introductions.  Corner Cafe, Starbucks  Barclays analysts say they’re skeptical that investors will
follow through on intentions to allocate more to small managers.
The bank’s poll surveyed 165 hedge-fund clients who had about
$500 billion invested during last year’s third quarter.  “It’s more an indicator of desire for size
diversification, rather than something that is necessarily going
to translate into action,” said Anurag Bhardwaj, Barclays
Capital’s head of strategic consulting. “If there is extreme
market volatility and you don’t know what is going to happen
next, your instinctive reaction is to stick with the tried and
tested.”  Another risk of investing in hedge funds with less than $1
billion of assets is that they are more reliant on incentive
fees generated from good performance to run their business and
pay staff, Bhardwaj said. A stretch of losing years can force a
small firm to shut down because it can’t retain talent, he said.  Maraviglia concedes that’s true.  “If you take a hit or something goes wrong, there’s a
bigger risk of blowing up,” he said. “It’s more likely for a
small coffee shop down the road to go bust than Starbucks.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  