-- South African Stocks: Anglo, AngloPlat, Basil Read, Brait Move
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-17T15:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/south-african-stocks-anglo-angloplat-basil-read-brait-move.html
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
advanced for the first time in four days, rising 0.8 percent to
34,082.78 by the close in Johannesburg. The index gained 0.6
percent this week.  The following were among the most active equities in the
South African market today. Stock symbols follow company names.  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  , a diversified miner that makes
up about 9 percent of the index, jumped 1.9 percent to 326.50
rand, its first gain in four days. The company said profit rose
23 percent last year as iron-ore and copper output increased.  Anglo American Platinum Corp. (AMS)  , the biggest
producer of the metal, added 1.1 percent to 559 rand. The
company took legal steps to protect its shareholders as the
government awarded a mining right at its Modikwa venture with
African Rainbow Minerals Ltd. to Nkwe Platinum Ltd., it said in
a statement late yesterday.  Basil Read Holdings Ltd. (BSR)  , a construction company,
closed at its highest in almost four months, adding 6 percent to
15 rand. The company was awarded a 1.2 billion ($155 million)
rand contract by  South Africa ’s Trans-Caledon Tunnel Authority,
taking the value of its order book to 14 billion rand, the
company said in a statement late yesterday.  Brait SA (BAT)  , South Africa’s largest private equity
company climbed the most in seven months, rising 3.4 percent to
21.45 rand, after it said it is in talks that may affect its
shares. The company may make a further acquisition or increase
its stake in an existing investment, Jean Pierre Verster, an
analyst with 36ONE Asset Management Pty Ltd. in Johannesburg,
said by phone.  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  , South Africa’s third-
biggest producer, jumped the most in more than a week, gaining
2.8 percent to 99.82 rand. Production at its Doornkop mine will
restart during the last week of February following an
infrastructure upgrade that will accelerate long-term
production, the company said in a regulatory filing today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  