-- South Sudan Faces 470,000-Ton Grain Deficit, Food Insecurity
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-17T11:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/south-sudan-faces-470-000-ton-grain-deficit-food-insecurity-1-.html
South  Sudan  faces a grain shortfall
of 470,000 metric tons this year, close to half the country’s
total consumption, that will make more people food insecure, the
 United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization  forecast.  Cereal output in 2011 fell 19 percent to 562,600 tons, hurt
by a dry period that started in June before the return of more
normal rainfall at the end of July, the Rome-based FAO wrote in
an e-mailed statement today.  South Sudan declared independence from northern neighbor
Sudan on July 9, and the countries this month signed a non-
aggression pact aimed at preventing cross-border clashes. Trade
restrictions between the two nations have “significantly” cut
availability of food commodities, the UN agency said.  “Civil insecurity, in the form of armed cattle rustling,
inter and intra-communal conflict and militia attacks continue
to hamper the country’s production capacity, particularly
limiting the potential expansion of cropped area,” the FAO
said.  The FAO estimates 4.7 million people in  South Sudan  will be
food insecure this year, from 3.3 million last year, while those
who may be “severely food insecure” could climb to 1 million
from 900,000 in 2011. A decline for the South Sudanese pound and
rising fuel costs lifted food expenses last year, the FAO said.  Livestock Vaccines  The FAO estimated as much as 185,000 tons of food will be
needed to help the most food-insecure households, children,
refugees and people returning to the country. The organization
said it is supporting distribution of livestock vaccines,
fishing equipment, vegetable seeds and tools to help long-term
development in South Sudan.  As an emergency measure, the FAO said it will provide
vaccines and antibiotics to prevent the spread of animal
disease, treating as many as 100,000 animals over the space of a
month.  “These people are pastoralists, or herders,” Nimaya
Mogga, livestock officer at the FAO, was cited as saying in the
statement. “These cattle are their livelihood. Without them,
they have nothing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  