-- Spain Lending Shrinks at Record Pace as Defaults Rise
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-02-17T12:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/spain-s-record-lending-decline-accelerates-as-defaults-increase.html
Spanish banks reduced lending at a
record pace and  defaults mounted  as the country’s recession and
rising unemployment took a toll on their ability to make loans
to solvent borrowers.  Lending  fell by 3.3 percent in December from a year before,
the biggest drop since Bank of  Spain  records started half a
century ago, the regulator said on its website today. Bad loans
as a proportion of total loans rose to 7.61 percent from 7.52
percent in November as borrowing considered “doubtful” jumped
to 136 billion euros ($179 billion) from about 11 billion euros
five years ago, before Spain’s property crash.  The prospect of a protracted recession in Spain is curbing
the appetite for loans and making banks more cautious about
lending. The economy may shrink 1.5 percent this year, according
to central bank forecasts, while unemployment stands at 23
percent. Exane BNP Paribas predicts an economic contraction
could stretch through 2013.  “You have a credit crunch in Spain,” said  Gilles Moec ,
co-chief European economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .
“It’s another reason for recession this year.”  The new government of  Mariano Rajoy  announced on Feb. 2
plans to force lenders to take their share of about 50 billion
euros in provisions and capital charges for real estate as a
step toward freeing up lending in the economy.  Banks piled up apartments and building land on their
balance sheets as loans to property developers and mortgage
borrowers soured during the crash. The government is talking to
banks to try to reduce the number of people evicted from their
homes for failing to pay their mortgages, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said in an interview with state radio RNE late
yesterday.  Deposits  gathered by Spanish lenders declined 4.6 percent
from a year earlier, the Bank of Spain said. Deposits increased
0.5 percent from November, the regulator said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  