-- Spider-Man, Pfizer-Sanofi, Apple: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-02-17T13:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/spider-man-pfizer-sanofi-apple-intellectual-property.html
Producers of “Spider-Man: Turn Off
the Dark” said they will pay full royalties to the show’s
former director,  Julie Taymor , three months after she sued for
back pay.  The announcement is part of a settlement with the Stage
Directors and Choreographers Society, the union which filed an
arbitration on Taymor’s behalf. Producers of the $75 million
musical continue to battle in a separate copyright lawsuit in
federal court over Taymor’s role in writing the book of the
musical and whether she’s owed money.  Laura Penn, executive director of the society, said she’s
hopeful there will be a settlement.  “Julie should be making great theater and not in
litigation,” she said in a telephone interview.  Penn declined to disclose the total royalties owed. Taymor
wasn’t available for comment, said a spokesman, Chris Kanarick.  Taymor sued producers in November, claiming that they
refused to pay royalties guaranteed by her contract and violated
her  intellectual-property  rights by changing the show without
her permission. As the co-writer, she said she worked on the
script for more than seven years. Producers countersued last
month in federal court in Manhattan.  The show formally opened on June 14 after 182 previews.
Last week, its eight performances grossed $1.4 million, behind
only “Wicked” and “The Book of Mormon,” according to the
Broadway League, a trade group,  The remaining copyright case is Julie Taymor v. 8 Legged
Productions LLC, 1:11-cv-08002-RJH, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Copyright  EU Court Won’t Require Filter System for Social-Networking Site  The Court of Justice of the European Union ruled yesterday
that social-networking sites cannot be forced to install
filtering systems to protect against the unauthorized sharing of
files.  The case involved SABAM, a Belgian company that represents
authors, composers and publishers of musical works and
authorizes the use of those works by third parties. Netlog NV is
a social-networking company that, according to SABAM, allows the
unauthorized sharing of music and videos.  While the court recognized the importance of protecting
intellectual property rights, imposing a filtering system would
improperly require social-networking sites “to actively monitor
almost all the data relating to all of its service users in
order to prevent any future infringement of intellectual
property rights,” according to the decision.  “It follows that an injunction would require the hosting
service provider to carry out general monitoring,” which is
prohibited by EU law, the court found.  The court also held that “such an injunction would result
in a serious infringement of the freedom of the hosting service
provider to conduct its business” and said that such a system
would impinge on users’ right to “protection of their personal
data and their freedom to receive or impart information.”  The case is Belgische Vereniging van Auteurs, Componisten
en Uitgevers(SABAM) v Netlog NV, C-360/10.  For more copyright news, click here.  Patent  Pfizer, Mylan Settle With Sanofi Over Allergic-Reaction Device  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  and a unit of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, settled patent litigation with France’s  Sanofi (SAN)  over a
device used to treat severe allergic reactions.  Sanofi may start selling the device, the Intelliject
epinephrine e-cue auto injector, beginning Nov. 15, according to
the settlement with Pfizer’s Meridian Medical Technologies,
Mylan and Pfizer said in a statement yesterday. The sales are
contingent upon final approval from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration.  “We are pleased with this settlement,” said Mylan Chief
Executive Officer Heather Bresch. “In addition to our
significant efforts in this area, people with life-threatening
allergic reactions will benefit from more voices in the fight”
against such reactions.  The initial lawsuit was filed in January 2011 in federal
court in Wilmington, Delaware, by Meridian, which makes the
EpiPen, alleging the Intelliject product would infringe a U.S.
patent. Further terms of the settlement weren’t released.  Mylan is based in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, and Pfizer is
based in New York.  The case is King Pharmaceuticals v. Intelliject Inc.,
11CV65, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).
To see the patent, click: 7,794,432  Intellectual Ventures Sues AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile  Intellectual Ventures, the firm controlled by former
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chief Technology Officer  Nathan Myhrvold , sued
 AT&T Inc. (T) ’s AT&T Mobility division,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-
Mobile USA Inc. for infringement of 15 patents.  Closely held Intellectual Ventures, founded by Myhrvold
after he left Microsoft in 2000, owns more than 35,000 patents
and has earned more than $2 billion in licensing fees, according
to the complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware. The suit is the company’s eighth against several high-
tech companies, including  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Canon Inc. (7751)  and
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  Mark Siegel , an AT&T spokesman; Anna Friedges, a T-Mobile
spokeswoman; and Stephanie Vinge-Walsh, a spokeswoman at Sprint
Nextel, all declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Melissa Finocchio, Intellectual Ventures’ chief litigation
counsel, said in a statement on the company’s website that it
“previously attempted to discuss licensing options with each of
these companies, but none were responsive.”  Verizon Wireless wasn’t sued because it is already a
licensee of the firm’s patents, said Naomi Zeitlin, a
spokeswoman for the Bellevue, Washington-based Intellectual
Ventures. She declined to say whether Verizon licensed the
specific patents at issue in the lawsuit.  Myhrvold is a columnist for Bloomberg View, which is owned
by Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  The case is Intellectual Ventures I LLC v. AT&T Mobility
LLC, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Apple Gets Partial Win Against Motorola Mobility in Germany  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a partial victory in a patent case against
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. over mobile-device technology in
 Germany .  The Munich Regional Court granted an injunction against
Motorola Mobility mobile phones that use methods for unlocking
touch screens protected by a European patent owned by Apple,
company spokesman Alan Hely said in an e-mailed statement.  Part of Apple’s case was dismissed, said Marcus Grosch,
Motorola Mobility’s German lawyer. The court ruled that Motorola
Mobility Xoom tablets don’t violate Apple’s patent, he said.  Yesterday’s ruling is Apple’s first win in Germany after
Motorola Mobility won two out of three rulings in suits it filed
against Apple in a Mannheim court. The world’s most valuable
technology company was forced to briefly remove some older
iPhone and iPad models from its online store in Germany earlier
this month when Motorola Mobility sought to enforce its first
win from December.  Motorola Mobility “has implemented a new design for the
feature,” the company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
“Therefore, we expect no impact on current supply or future
sales.”  European and U.S. antitrust regulators this week approved
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s $12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility.
The deal arms Google with patents to protect its Android
operating system, used by smartphones and tablets from companies
including Motorola Mobility that compete with Apple’s products.
The regulators warned they will continue to watch how the
companies use patents in litigation.  The Munich case centered on Apple’s European patent
EP1964022B1, which protects a method for unlocking a device in
which the user swipes his finger across an image.  The case is LG Muenchen, 7 O 11395/11, 7 O 19692/11.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Wins Hong Kong Ruling, Aiding China IPad Trademark Fight  Apple Inc. can use some documents filed previously by
 Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334)  in the Hong Kong courts,
aiding the iPad maker’s efforts in a trademark dispute over the
tablet computer’s name in  China .  Apple’s application to use four documents filed by Proview
in a case that started in 2010 was granted by Master A. Ho in a
hearing today. Ho rejected another application by Apple to use
documents submitted in the future by Proview, saying he couldn’t
issue such a “blanket” order.  A lawyer representing Apple said the company wants the
documents as it prepares to appeal a November ruling by a
Chinese court that Proview’s Shenzhen subsidiary owns the iPad
trademark in the nation. Since that ruling by the Shenzhen
Intermediate People’s Court, Proview asked China’s customs
bureau to stop imports and exports of the iPad, and asked local
retailers to stop selling the device.  The lawyer for Apple told the court that the documents
sought by the Cupertino, California-based company contained
details of correspondence between Proview officials. The lawyer
wasn’t required to identify herself during the hearing and
declined to give her name when approached by Bloomberg News.  Apple was represented by the law firm Baker & McKenzie at
the hearing, according to Hong Kong court information. Proview
wasn’t represented at today’s hearing.  Apple started litigation against Proview over the iPad
trademark in Hong Kong and China in 2010. In June 2011, a Hong
Kong court granted Apple’s application for an injunction
preventing Proview from selling the iPad trademark to others.  Apple said this week it acquired Proview’s worldwide rights
to the iPad trademark in 10 countries, including China. Proview
is refusing to honor an agreement with Apple in China, Apple
said.  Roger Xie, a lawyer for Proview at the Grandall Law Firm in
Shenzhen, didn’t respond to a phone call seeking comment. The
Higher People’s Court of Guangdong will hear Apple’s appeal on
Feb. 29.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  UBS Claims Two Ex-Advisers Took Customer Data to Wells Fargo  A  UBS AG (UBSN)  brokerage unit sued two former financial advisers
in Chicago, claiming they took confidential trade secret
information including customer account data to competitor  Wells
Fargo (WFC)  Advisers LLC.  Named as defendants in the lawsuit filed Feb. 15 by UBS
Financial Services Inc. are David Kinnear and Kathleen Bakas,
who allegedly resigned two days earlier to join the Wells Fargo
& Co. unit. One full-time and one part-time UBS employee, all
part of Kinnear’s wealth-management group, went with them,
according to the complaint.  “Led by Kinnear, the team serviced accounts that generated
more than $3.7 million in revenues for UBS over the past 12
months of the defendants’ employment,” UBS alleged.  The New York-based brokerage unit of Zurich-based UBS seeks
a court order blocking the defendants and any Wells Fargo
representative from soliciting any UBS client Kinnear or Bakas
had advised while there, preventing the disclosure of any
proprietary UBS information and directing its return.  UBS also seeks expedited arbitration of its claims through
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Ancel Martinez, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, which isn’t a party to the suit, couldn’t immediately
comment on the case. Kinnear and Bakas didn’t immediately
respond to e-mail messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is UBS Financial Services Inc. v. Kinnear,
12CH05333, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court, Chancery
Division (Chicago).  MacAndrews & Forbes, Drapkin Reach Post-Verdict Settlement  Ronald Perelman’s  MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc.  and
 Donald Drapkin  settled their remaining claims against each other
after Perelman’s ex-lieutenant won $16 million at a trial in
January.  “All disputes between Donald Drapkin and MacAndrews &
Forbes are resolved,” David Dunn, a lawyer for Drapkin, said in
a telephone interview. The terms of the agreement are
confidential, he said.  The two sides filed papers in Manhattan federal court
yesterday dismissing the case.  A jury deliberated for 90 minutes last month before
returning a verdict for Drapkin in his breach-of-contract suit
against MacAndrews & Forbes, which he left in 2007. The
agreement means the court won’t consider any remaining disputes
between the parties, including Drapkin’s claim for attorneys’
fees and MacAndrews & Forbes’s planned request to have the
verdict thrown out.  Steven Kobre, a lawyer for MacAndrews & Forbes, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment on the settlement.
MacAndrews & Forbes had also claimed that Drapkin tried to
induce another employee to leave and had failed to turn over
company documents. Drapkin had denied those charges.  The cases are Drapkin v. Mafco Consolidated Group, 09-
cv-1285, and MacAndrews & Forbes LLC v. Drapkin, 09-cv-4513,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 