-- Stanford CFO Forged Boss’s Name, Fought Cost Control Measure, Witness Says
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-17T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/stanford-cfo-forged-boss-s-name-refused-reforms-witness-says.html
R. Allen Stanford was furious to
learn that his finance chief, James Davis, forged his name to a
2007 employee memo abolishing a department Stanford created to
“reel in” expenses, a former executive testified.  “He called me at home at 11 or 12 one evening, and he was
very mad,” Linda Wingfield, Stanford’s former executive
director of special projects, told jurors today at Stanford’s
criminal fraud trial in federal court in Houston. “He said he
did not sign it.”  Wingfield, who held a number of executive positions at
Stanford’s companies over 10 years, testified that Davis refused
to give the boss access to a corporate computer system with
Stanford Financial Group Co.’s financial records. Testifying as
a defense witness, she said Davis also ignored or circumvented
policies Stanford instituted to clamp down on expenditures.  “He fought us from day one, a department set up by the
chairman to try to control costs,” Wingfield said of Davis.
“Mr. Davis was always refusing.”  Wingfield’s testimony may bolster Stanford’s claim that it
was Davis, not him, who ran the financial services empire and
engineered a fraud that cost investors more than $7 billion.
Davis pleaded guilty and testified as a government witness
earlier in the trial, which is concluding its fourth week.  Airlines, Cricket  Prosecutors accuse Stanford of stealing more than $2
billion from certificates of deposit at his Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd. Instead of holding investor
funds in safe assets as he promised, Stanford used their money
to fund an extravagant lifestyle and risky ventures including
Caribbean airlines, real estate projects and cricket
tournaments, prosecutors say.  Stanford, 61, has been jailed as a flight risk since being
indicted in June 2009. If convicted of the most serious charges,
he faces as many as 20 years in prison.  Wingfield, who also ran some of Stanford side ventures,
testified today via a video link from federal court in  Orlando ,
 Florida . She said she was too ill to travel.  Robert Scardino, Stanford’s lawyer, asked Wingfield who
controlled “all the financial issues, including the treasury,
accounting, internal audits and investments” at Stanford’s
companies.  ‘Nobody Else’  “Mr. Davis -- and the insurance, too,” she said. “There
was nobody else who handled all the books.”  Wingfield told jurors she believed Stanford’s court-
appointed receiver duplicated efforts and wasted money during
the “chaotic” period after the businesses were seized by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in February 2009.  More than 40 Stanford investors crowded into the courtroom
today to mark the third anniversary of the SEC crackdown. Angie
Shaw, leader of the Stanford Victims’ Coalition, said the
group’s motto is “3 and $0,” meaning “three years and zero
recovery” by defrauded investors.  The group had planned to wear stickers with those words to
court until U.S. District Judge David Hittner asked them not to
do so, for fear of distracting the jury.  Houston investor Cassie Wilkinson, 63, said in an interview
she lost $500,000 on Stanford CDs and has attended about 80
percent of the trial. A video shown to jurors yesterday,
depicting a luxury Antigua resort Stanford was developing with
investor money, was the toughest evidence she’s seen yet, she
said.  ‘Built Another Country’  “He took our money and built another country with it,”
Wilkinson said during a break in testimony. “I was fighting
back tears to see the lavish way he lived his life, and now
we’re left to try to scrape through the rest of ours.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg Costa spoke with some of the
investors during court breaks. “This is who we’re doing this
for,” he said outside of court.  Investor Frank Goll, who lost $70,000 on a Stanford CD he
bought with friend who was a Stanford adviser, testified for the
defense. He told jurors he understood the bank’s investment
strategy, knew the deposits were uninsured and thought those
were risks he “was willing to take.”  “Anywhere that they could get a good return that was safe,
I’m behind it,” Goll told the jury. “Make money, lose money.
Sometimes you win, sometimes you don’t.”  Goll testified that during an Internet search he conducted
before investing with Stanford, he learned “nobody had ever
lost money” on Stanford CDs, a remark that drew laughter from
some in the courtroom.  Ralph Janvey  Goll also told jurors he believes the court-appointed
receiver, Ralph Janvey, was responsible for his lost
investments, not Stanford.  “I believe the receiver was inept and unqualified to
handle the assets he was put in charge of,” he testified.  Assistant U.S. Attorney William Stellmach, on cross-
examination, asked Goll if he was trying to help his “very
close friend,” a female former Stanford adviser, by trying to
help Stanford win the case.  “She’s being sued for $1.4 million by the receiver, for
all the commissions she earned selling the CDs,” Stellmach told
Goll. “Do you think that lawsuit might fail or be hindered if
Mr. Stanford is acquitted?”  Goll replied that he didn’t know.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 