-- Stifel Expands Into Options, Hires Three From Needham, Jefferies
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-02-17T13:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/stifel-expands-into-options-hires-three-from-needham-jefferies.html
Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)  hired Brett Marcus and Sam Frankfort of Needham & Co. and Sam Skinner of
 Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  as managing directors for the firm’s first
expansion into institutional equity options trading.  Marcus, 36, Frankfort, 33, and Skinner, 33, are based in
 New York  and started trading this week, according to Thomas Mulroy, the firm’s co-head of institutional equities and fixed
income research and trading. They report to Mulroy.  “There’s plenty of potential for this business to grow
dramatically over the next three to five years,” Mulroy said.
“We’ve got a huge platform for research and trading and it made
sense that if we could find the right individuals that we could
add an options business.”  Stifel, which boosted its staff by 51 percent since 2008,
is expanding into options after U.S. trading of equity
derivatives linked to stocks, indexes and exchange-traded funds
rose to 4.6 billion contracts last year for a ninth-straight
 record . The new staff will make options trades for customers and
work with the company’s analysts to recommend strategies based
on their projections.  Stifel was “one of the bigger beneficiaries of the market
downturn coming out of the financial crisis,” said Devin Ryan,
an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York, who has
a “hold” rating on the shares. “They were well-capitalized
and in a position of strength,” he said. “That allowed them to
pick up talent.”  Traders, Analysts  Stifel has about 60 equity traders and about 80 research
analysts, according to Mulroy, who is based in Baltimore. Most
traders are in Baltimore, with some in New York,  Boston ,  San
Francisco ,  Dallas  and  London , Mulroy said.  Chief Executive Officer Ron Kruszewski said in November
that 2012 will be an “up year” for recruiting compared with
2011. Stifel employed 5,097 full-time associates as of Dec. 31,
compared with 4,906 at the same time in 2010 and 3,371 in 2008,
according to company statements.  “It’s a natural extension of the cash equities business,”
Frankfort said. “We’re really looking to leverage the analyst
infrastructure here and layer on options strategy, which is
something Stifel clients have been asking for.”  Options give the right, without the obligation, to buy or
sell a security at a set price by a specific date. Investors use
options to guard against fluctuations in the price of securities
they own, speculate on share-price moves or bet that volatility,
or stock swings, will rise or fall. Listed U.S. options trading
began when the  Chicago Board Options Exchange  opened in 1973.
There are now nine U.S. options markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  