-- Suntech, SunPower Lead Solars Higher on Quarterly Results
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-02-17T21:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/suntech-sunpower-lead-panel-makers-higher-on-earnings-surprise.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
world’s biggest maker of solar panels, and SunPower Corp. led
solar stocks higher today after reporting fourth-quarter results
that beat analysts’ estimates.  Suntech, based in Jiangsu,  China , climbed 8.3 percent to
$3.65 at the close in New York.  SunPower (SPWR) , a solar company
majority-owned by Total SA, rose 8.7 percent to $8.13. The
 Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index (BLGS)  of 37 companies gained 3.6
percent.  Demand for solar panels surged in the fourth quarter as
developers tried to complete projects before declines in
government subsidies from countries including Germany, the
world’s largest market. Global solar installations climbed 66
percent last year to 27.6 gigawatts, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  “Even after the cuts in  Germany , you’re seeing the demand
being robust,” said Hari Chandra Polavarapu, a solar industry
analyst at Auriga USA LLC in New York. In the U.S., the
expiration of a Treasury Department grant program in December
also led to rapid panel deployment, he said. “The cash grant
was expiring and everyone was trying to beat the deadline.”  For SunPower, fourth-quarter profit excluding one-time
items was 16 cents a share, the San Jose, California-based
company said in a statement yesterday. Analysts had expected a
loss of 6 cents, the average of 13  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Suntech’s shipments last year reached 2.09 gigawatts, more
than its previous guidance of 2 gigawatts, the company said in a
statement today. Sales in the fourth quarter were in the range
of $610 million to $630 million, more than the $552 million
average of 22 analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at   jdoom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 