-- Swift Says Ready to Implement Sanctions on Iran Institutions
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-02-17T20:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/swift-says-ready-to-implement-sanctions-on-iran-institutions-1-.html
Swift, the global bank-transfer
messaging service, said it is prepared to impose sanctions
against Iranian financial institutions once the European Union
presents implementing rules on its restrictions.  “Swift stands ready to act and discontinue its services to
sanctioned Iranian financial institutions as soon as it has
clarity on EU legislation currently being drafted,” the Society
for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication  said today
in a statement.  Iran  would be the first country to be cut off by Swift,
according to  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Foundation
for Defense of Democracies, a Washington policy group, who has
advised the Obama administration and  congressional offices on
SWIFT and other sanctions measures.  “If strictly implemented, this could deny Iran’s banks the
ability to move billions of dollars in financial transactions,
and put immense pressure on Iran’s leaders to reconsider their
policies,” he said. “The international sanctions on the
Iranian regime are the last remaining hope of bringing a
peaceful end to its unlawful nuclear pursuits, terrorist
activities, and human rights abuses”  While the European sanctions agreed to on Jan. 23 are
already binding on EU governments, the bloc’s regulator is
working on regulations to make them required at the company
level.  Watching U.S. Action  “We understand that the European Union is now drafting new
international sanctions regulations which directly affect the
ability of EU-based financial communication service providers
such as Swift to provide their services to Iranian financial
institutions subject to EU sanctions,” the member-owned
institution said. “In addition, we are closely following the
progress of a bill passed by the U.S. Senate Banking Committee
regarding Iran which has similar intention.”  Swift said its decision “reflects the extraordinary and
highly exceptional circumstances of significant multi-lateral
international support for the intensification of sanctions
against Iran.”  Dubowitz said it will be important to see how Swift treats
the central bank of Iran, which handles much of the country’s
receipts from oil exports. Iran is the second-largest producer
in OPEC after  Saudi Arabia .  “Will it expel the CBI along with other European-
sanctioned banks?” he said. “Or will it quarantine its
transactions so that the CBI will be limited only to
humanitarian-related trade and to specific oil market
transactions with international financial institutions that
conform to U.S. law?.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  