-- Swiss Stocks Climb to Seven-Month High on Greek Bailout Optimism
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-02-17T16:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/swiss-stocks-rise-for-a-third-day-as-ubs-credit-suisse-holcim-increase.html
Swiss stocks  rose to a seven-month
high, led by rallies in  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
amid optimism that Greece will receive a second bailout, even as
health-care companies declined.  Holcim, the world’s second-biggest cement maker, jumped to
its highest price in seven months. Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s
second-largest lender, rose 2.9 percent, following European
banks higher.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food company, added
0.5 percent.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  slipped 0.4 percent and Synthes
Inc. dropped 0.2 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of Switzerland’s biggest
and most actively traded companies, added 0.3 percent to
6,237.69 at the close in Zurich, the highest level since July.
The gauge posted a 1.8 percent weekly gain and has rallied  5.1
percent this year  as the  European Central Bank  moved to lend
more to banks and U.S. economic reports topped forecasts. The
broader Swiss Performance Index increased 0.4 percent.  “Markets are confident that  Greece  will finally receive
the second bailout package and reach a haircut deal,” said
Alessandro Fezzi, senior market analyst at LGT Capital
Management AG in Pfaeffikon, Switzerland. “However, markets
don’t react to bad news the way they used to in 2011, so even if
we see a further delay to the deal, it probably won’t provoke a
panic reaction.”  Germany wants euro-area finance ministers to avoid
splitting the 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) bailout for Greece
from the planned bond swap with private creditors, officials
from  Europe ’s largest economy said in a briefing to their
country’s lawmakers. The finance chiefs of the 17 nations using
the single currency meet on Feb. 20 in Brussels.  Bailout Approval  As long as Greece meets conditions for the aid, the finance
chiefs will probably approve the package along with the debt
exchange, three German officials involved in the telephone
briefing said yesterday. A Finance Ministry spokesman declined
to comment.  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed that the cost
of living rose less than forecast in January, advancing 0.2
percent after no change the prior month. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey had projected a 0.3 percent gain.  Holcim jumped 4.6 percent to 58.60 Swiss francs, its
highest price since July, after peer Lafarge SA, the world’s
largest cement maker, reported operating income that beat
estimates.  Bank Rally  A  gauge  of European banks advanced 1.5 percent. Credit
Suisse rose 2.9 percent to 24.55 francs.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) ,
the country’s biggest life insurer, increased 2 percent to
102.30 francs and Baloise Holding AG gained 1.9 percent to 74.15
francs.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  dropped 2.8 percent to 37.30 francs,
while  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN) , the Swiss bank and brokerage that
specializes in derivatives, fell 4.9 percent to 24.50 francs.
The stock fell the most in more than three years yesterday as
profit declined and it cut its dividend.  Nestle added 0.5 percent to 55.85 francs, extending
yesterday’s gains. Jean-Philippe Bertschy, an analyst at
Vontobel Holding AG, raised his price estimate for the stock to
58 francs from 55 francs.  Health-care companies led decliners, with Roche, the
world’s largest maker of cancer drugs, retreating 0.4 percent to
161.80 francs and  Synthes Inc. (SYST)  dropping 0.2 percent to 157.40
francs.  Transocean Ltd., the biggest operator of offshore drilling
rigs, climbed 2.1 percent to 45.92 francs as crude oil headed
for the largest weekly gain this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  