-- U.K. Health-Cost Agency Asks Roche for More Lung-Tumor Drug Data
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-02-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/u-k-health-cost-agency-asks-roche-for-more-lung-tumor-drug-data.html
The U.K.’s health-cost agency said
it won’t issue a ruling on  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Tarceva lung-
cancer medicine until the Swiss drugmaker can show how the
therapy compares with  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Iressa.  The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence
said it doesn’t have enough information to give a recommendation
on Tarceva. Until a final ruling, the state-run  National Health
Service  should decide locally on a case-by-case basis whether to
pay for the drug, the London-based cost regulator, known as
 NICE , said in a statement.  Roche is seeking to market Tarceva as a first-choice
treatment for people with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer
who test positive for a mutation. Iressa has had NICE’s approval
for NHS spending since 2010. NICE said it wants additional data
comparing the two treatments.  Tarceva, also known as erlotinib, costs 1,631.53 pounds
($2,570) for a 30-day supply. Basel-based Roche has agreed to
give the U.K. government a discount, NICE said, adding that the
amount of the offer is confidential.  The regulator’s request for more economic analysis is part
of “a standard process,” and Roche is “confident we will be
able to address the questions and will respond by March 9,”
said Claudia Schmitt, spokeswoman for the drugmaker.  the Swiss
manufacturer said. “We don’t think it will cause a delay in the
issuance of the guidance.”  NICE provides recommendations on treatments’ value for
money that the NHS uses as the basis for deciding whether to pay
for a drug or health-care equipment. Tarceva already has
European Union health-regulator clearance as a first-line
treatment for  lung cancer  in patients with the mutation.  Iressa, also known as gefitinib, costs 12,200 pounds per
patient for treatment lasting longer than three months. The drug
is free for treatment periods of less than three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  