-- U.K. to Send Food for 20,000, Medical Equipment to Syria
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-02-17T14:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/u-k-to-send-food-for-20-000-medical-equipment-to-syria.html
Britain is sending humanitarian aid
to  Syria  including food rations for 20,000 people and medical
supplies as President Bashar Al-Assad intensifies his 11-month
crackdown on opponents.  “What is happening in Syria is appalling, we have a
government that’s butchering and murdering its own people,”
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  told reporters after meeting
with French President Nicolas Sarkozy in Paris today.  Britain will provide 2 million pounds ($3.17 million) of
aid through three humanitarian organizations working in Syria,
the Department for International Development said in an e-mailed
statement. It said it is not naming the groups as it does not
want to make their job harder.  The money will provide “basic food rations” for 20,000
people, household items, including cooking utensils and
blankets, for 5,500 and ensure safe drinking water for 30,000,
DFID said.  “The emerging picture from Syria is increasingly
horrifying, and as the shelling of Homs enters its third week
our concern for the humanitarian situation continues to grow,”
said International Development Secretary  Andrew Mitchell . The
aid announced today “will provide immediate and potentially
life-saving short-term help for thousands of innocent civilians
under attack -- but a longer-term solution is urgently needed,”
he said.  Syrian security forces today pounded the Homs region after
the United Nations General Assembly denounced the Assad regime’s
crackdown on protesters.  Cameron and Sarkozy condemned the Syrian government, but
ruled out military action, saying Syria is different from  Libya ,
where Western powers intervened with the full backing of the UN
and the  Arab League . They said the Syrian opposition needs to be
more united.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  