-- U.K., France to Cooperate on Unmanned Military Aerial Drones
-- B y   R o b   H u t t o n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-02-17T13:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/u-k-france-to-cooperate-on-unmanned-military-aerial-drones-1-.html
The U.K. and France will invest
jointly in an unmanned drone program and explore plans for
developing combat drones as part of their strategy of defense
cooperation, leaders of the two countries said.  “It’s partly about our capacity, investment we’re going to
make in our drone program,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
at a joint press conference in Paris following a meeting with
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . He said the two countries will
be “cooperating over the most sensitive dossiers of all,
including nuclear.”  The governments have asked  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and  Dassault
Aviation SA (AM)  to start work on a medium-altitude long-endurance
drone for reconnaissance that would be available for flights
from 2020, as well as to explore development of a UCAV, or
unmanned combat aerial vehicle by 2030, French Defense Minister
Gerard Longuet said after the briefing.  Sarkozy said that while plans are limited to France and the
U.K. for now, those governments would be happy to admit other
European governments also interested in investing in drone
technologies.  UCAVs are fighter planes that can be controlled remotely by
pilots either on the ground or in the air at distance from
combat areas.  Third Countries?  “We are pragmatic,” Sarkozy said, when asked about third
countries. “If other countries want to join in and help us
shoulder the financial burden, they will be more than welcome.”  Cameron too said there “will be opportunities” to
encourage other countries’ involvement.  The drone that BAE and Dassault are working on for 2020 is
known as Telemos. Dassault said in June said the companies would
ask about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in funding from the two
governments.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. , the parent of
Airbus SAS, has failed to line up government funding for its own
drone, called Talarion, after two years of threatening to halt
the project without government support.  EADS Chief Executive  Louis Gallois  during the Paris Air
show in June said he was urging France and the U.K. to open
their project to European partners.  “It can’t be only a Franco-British program,” Gallois told
radio station RTL in June. “It must be open to  Germany ,  Spain ,
 Italy . We wish that it will be a European program, and then
there will be room for all manufacturers, and, I hope, for
EADS.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  