-- U.K. Retail Sales Unexpectedly Increased in January: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-02-17T11:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/u-k-retail-sales-unexpectedly-increase-led-by-demand-for-household-goods.html
U.K.  retail sales  unexpectedly rose
for a second month in January, adding to signs the economy may
strengthen in the current quarter and avoid a recession.  Sales including fuel rose 0.9 percent from December, when
they rose 0.6 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said
today in London. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent decline,
according to the median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. The deflator, a measure of annual price increases,
dropped to the lowest in more than two years last month.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said this week that
the economy should “gradually” recover this year as cooling
inflation helps reduce a squeeze on consumers’ finances, though
the European debt crisis will weigh on growth. An improvement in
retail sales may be limited by unemployment at a 16-year high
and confidence at what  Nationwide Building Society  says is a
“subdued” level.  The “figures suggest that a recovery in high street
spending is gaining momentum,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist
at  Capital Economics  in London. Nevertheless, “more generally,
with unemployment on an upward trend, credit conditions
tightening and real incomes still being squeezed, the underlying
conditions for consumers are still tough.”  The pound extended its gain against the dollar after the
data were published. It traded at $1.5846 as of 10:44 a.m. in
London, up 0.3 percent from yesterday.  Sporting Goods  Sales in the “other stores” category rose 5.9 percent in
January from December, led by sportswear and sporting equipment.
Household goods stores surged 4.8 percent. Sales at food stores
fell 0.3 percent and sales of clothes dropped 2.1 percent.  From a year earlier, retail sales were up 2 percent in
January.  Excluding fuel , sales rose 1.2 percent in January from
December and increased 1.9 percent from a year earlier.  Britain’s  economy  shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter
and unemployment held at 8.4 percent, the highest for 16 years.
While Nationwide’s consumer confidence gauge rose to a five-
month high last month, the lender said a “significant and
sustained rise” is unlikely in the near term. The index is two
points lower from the same month a year earlier.  London-based  Kingfisher Plc (KGF) , Europe’s largest home-
improvement retailer, said yesterday that the global economic
outlook is “uncertain.”  SuperGroup Plc (SGP) , the owner of the
Superdry clothing chain, said on Feb. 8 that revenue growth
slowed in January.  Greek Talks  The Bank of England increased its  bond-purchase target  by
50 billion pounds ($79 billion) to 325 billion pounds this month
to protect an economy under threat from the debt crisis in the
euro area, where officials are wrangling over a bailout deal for
 Greece .  European stocks advanced today, pushing the  Stoxx Europe
600 Index (SXXP)  up 0.5 percent to a six-month high, as investors
speculated that euro-area officials are nearing an agreement.  Germany  wants finance ministers to avoid separating the 130
billion-euro ($171 billion) bailout from a planned bond swap
with private creditors, officials from  Europe ’s largest economy
said in a briefing to their country’s lawmakers. Euro finance
chiefs will probably approve the package and the debt exchange
at a Feb. 20 meeting in Brussels, three German officials
involved in the telephone briefing yesterday said.  U.K. Revival  There are signs the U.K. may avoid a recession, defined as
two consecutive quarters of contraction.  Manufacturing (PMITMUK)  returned
to growth in January and expansion in services accelerated,
reports this month showed. Inflation slowed to a 14-month low of
3.6 percent in January.  “It appears we could get some solid growth” in the first
quarter, said David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “That further supports our forecast that the U.K. isn’t
going into recession, and indeed that the current round of
quantitative easing in the U.K. will be the last.”  In the U.S., a report today may show the world’s largest
economy will continue to expand into the second half of the
year. The Conference Board’s index of leading economic
indicators, which signals the outlook for three to six months,
rose 0.5 percent in January after a 0.4 percent gain in
December, according to the median of economists’ forecasts
before the report, due at 10 a.m. in  New York .  The Labor Department may say the cost of living rose 0.3
percent in January from a month earlier, according to a separate
survey.  Elsewhere, German  producer prices  climbed 0.6 percent last
month from December, the Bundesbank in  Frankfurt  said. The
median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.3
percent increase.  Singapore ’s exports fell for the first time in three months
in January on lower electronics and petrochemical shipments, as
Europe’s debt crisis crimped demand and the Chinese New Year
holiday shortened the working month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  