-- U.S. January Leading Economic Indicators (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-02-17T15:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/u-s-january-leading-economic-indicators-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
leading economic indicators from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.4 percent in January to 94.9 (2004 = 100), following
a 0.5 percent increase in December and a 0.3 percent increase in
November.  Said  Ataman Ozyildirim , economist at The Conference Board:
“This fourth consecutive gain in the LEI reflected fairly
widespread strength among its components, pointing to somewhat
more positive economic conditions in early 2012. The LEI’s
increase in January was led not only by improving financial and
credit indicators, but also rising average workweek in
manufacturing. These both offset consumers’ outlook about the
economy, which remained pessimistic, though slightly less so.
Meanwhile, the CEI rose again in January as employment, income,
and sales data all point to improving current economic
conditions despite a lack of contribution from industrial
production.”  Added  Ken Goldstein , economist at The Conference Board:
“Recent data reflect an economy that started the year on a
positive note.  The CEI shows some small signs of economic
strengthening in the fourth quarter and continued to point in
this direction in January. The LEI suggests these conditions
will continue and could possibly even pick up this spring and
summer.”  The Conference Board Coincident Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.2 percent in January to 103.5 (2004 = 100),
following a 0.3 percent increase in December and no change in
November.  The Conference Board Lagging Economic Index increased 0.4
percent in January to 113.8 (2004 = 100), following a 0.3
percent increase in December and a 0.3 percent increase in
November.  *** Annual Benchmark Revisions ***  January 26, 2012 release  The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for The  United
States  incorporates annual benchmark revisions to the composite
indexes. These regular benchmark revisions bring the indexes up-
to-date with revisions in the source data. The revisions do not
change the cyclical properties of the indexes. The indexes are
updated throughout the year, but only for the previous six
months. Data revisions that fall outside of the moving six-month
window are incorporated when the benchmark revision is made and
the entire histories of the indexes are recomputed. As a result,
the revised indexes and their month-over-month changes will no
longer be directly comparable to those issued prior to the
benchmark revision. The entire history of the indexes from 1959
to present has been revised.  Comprehensive Benchmark Revisions  In addition to these regular annual revisions, The
Conference Board implemented a comprehensive revision of The
Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the United States
effective with the January 26, 2012 release. The last time the
LEI had comprehensive revisions was in 1996 after The Conference
Board received the responsibility for the LEI and the Business
Cycle Indicators program from the  Bureau of Economic Analysis  at
the U.S. Department of Commerce.  These comprehensive revisions are the result of an
extensive reevaluation of existing components of The Conference
Board Leading Economic Index for the United States. Following
discussions with the Business Cycle Indicators Advisory Panel
and other experts, The Conference Board has decided to replace
three of the ten components and make a minor adjustment to
another component. The composition changes reflected in the new
LEI address structural changes that have occurred in the U.S.
economy in the last several decades. The upcoming changes in the
LEI composition include:  1) incorporating the new Leading Credit Index and omitting the
real money supply (M2) component starting in 1990 (real M2
remains in the index before 1990);  2) replacing the ISM Supplier Delivery Index with the ISM New
Orders Index;  3) replacing the Reuters/ University of Michigan  Consumer
Expectations Index with an equally weighted average of consumer
expectations of business and economic conditions using questions
from Surveys of Consumers conducted by Reuters/University of
Michigan and Consumer Confidence Survey by The Conference Board
(after 1978, Reuters/University of Michigan Consumer
Expectations Index remains in the index before 1978 ); and  4) replacing “New Orders for (nondefense) Capital Goods” with
“New Orders for (nondefense) Capital Goods excluding Aircraft.”  In addition to these major changes to the composition, The
Conference Board has implemented changes in the methodology and
procedures used in the calculation process. These modifications
are:  1) normalized levels of the indicator rather than its monthly
changes will be used to calculate the component contributions of
components based on diffusion indexes such as the ISM New Orders
Index;  2) when component data are missing, autoregressions in log
differences instead of levels will be used to calculate the
statistical imputation of the missing months;  3) trend adjustment will be done in two periods: 1959-1983 and
1984-2010 (same as the volatility adjustment); and  4) LCI contributions to the LEI are calculated from its levels
(not monthly changes) and it is inverted  As a result of these changes, the history of the revised indexes
and their month-over-month changes will no longer be directly
comparable to those issued prior to the comprehensive benchmark
revision. Based on its performance since 1990, and especially
before and during the 2008-2009 recession, the new LEI should
provide more accurate predictions of business cycle peaks and
troughs.  Leading Credit Index  Financial indicators such as yield curves and stock prices
have been extensively used as leading indicators of economic
activity due to their forward looking content. The coverage of
financial and credit market activity can be improved to account
for some of the structural changes in the  U.S. economy 
(especially in financial markets). Over the past three decades,
many new financial indicators, such as  interest rate  swaps,
credit default swaps, certain corporate-treasury spreads, the
 Federal Reserve ’s senior loan officer survey, etc.  have become
available, but, since most of these new indicators have not been
available for a long enough period, very little research has
been conducted to evaluate their usefulness as leading
indicators.  The Conference Board research indicates that
several of these financial indicators rank highly according to
their ability to predict recessions (i.e. peaks and troughs in
the business cycle).  These financial indicators have been
aggregated into a single composite index, named the Leading
Credit Index, and incorporated as a component in the revised LEI,
replacing real  money supply  (M2).  The new Leading Credit Index differs from others in the
literature in that it consists of a small, carefully selected
set of component indicators that specifically target business
cycle turning points rather than financial stress or instability.  About The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.  The composite economic indexes are the key elements in an
analytic system designed to signal peaks and troughs in the
business cycle. The leading, coincident, and lagging economic
indexes are essentially composite averages of several individual
leading, coincident, or lagging indicators. They are constructed
to summarize and reveal common turning point patterns in
economic data in a clearer and more convincing manner than any
individual component -- primarily because they smooth out some
of the volatility of individual components.  The ten components of The Conference Board Leading Economic
Index for the U.S. include:  Average weekly hours, manufacturing  Average weekly initial claims for unemployment insurance  Manufacturers’ new orders, consumer goods and materials  ISM Index of New Orders  Manufacturers’ new orders, nondefense capital goods
excluding aircraft orders  Building permits, new private housing units  Stock prices, 500 common stocks  Leading Credit Index  Interest rate spread, 10-year Treasury bonds less federal
funds  Average consumer expectations for business and economic
conditions  The next release is scheduled for Thursday, March 22, 2012
at 10 A.M. ET   SOURCE: The Conference Board 