-- U.S. Says Rajaratnam and Gupta Lawyers May Be Sharing Memos
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-17T01:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/u-s-says-rajaratnam-and-gupta-s-lawyers-may-be-sharing-memos.html
Lawyers for  Rajat Gupta , the former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director charged with  insider trading ,
may have received government memos on two witnesses who
testified against Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam
last year, a prosecutor said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky said at a court
hearing today in Manhattan that Gupta’s lawyers may already have
copies of dozens of memos concerning  Anil Kumar , a former
partner at McKinsey & Co., and  Adam Smith , a former Galleon
portfolio manager, based on interviews conducted by agents with
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation . Kumar and Smith pleaded
guilty and agreed to testify against Rajaratnam, who was
convicted of insider trading in May.  The memos, known as “302s,” were handed over by
prosecutors to Rajaratnam’s lawyer during his trial last year,
Brodsky said at the hearing.  “What we didn’t produce and what we didn’t review were
Kumar and Smith FBI reports that we produced in the Rajaratnam
trial,” Brodsky told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is
overseeing Gupta’s criminal case as well as a suit filed by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  ‘No Right’  “We’re asking if they received them from Rajaratnam’s
counsel,” Brodsky said.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , said he wouldn’t tell
prosecutors if he had the memos. He noted that Rakoff ordered
prosecutors last week to turn over the bulk of evidence they had
in preparation for the trial, set to begin in May.  “They have absolutely no right to know the answer when
they were ordered to do this,” Naftalis said.  Rakoff said he was concerned to learn there may have been
sharing of evidence, known as “3500 material,” between Gupta
and Rajaratnam. The judge said the while the men are
codefendants in the SEC lawsuit filed in October, they aren’t
codefendants in the criminal case before him.  “3500 material is normally to be returned at the close of
a case,” Rakoff said. “There may be a reason why the court
should find out what’s going on. I do have some concern about
whether there was such an exchange and whether or not it’s
harmless error.”  Phone Conference  Rakoff ordered the lawyers in the case to confer with him
tomorrow in a phone conference to resolve the matter.  Gupta, 63, the one-time McKinsey & Co. leader and former
director at  Procter & Gamble Co ., was accused in October by
prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara of passing inside information to Rajaratnam. The U.S.
says Gupta tipped Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and P&G
earnings.  A revised indictment filed in January expanded prosecutors’
description of the insider-trading scheme, saying it began in
March 2007, a year earlier than the U.S. alleged in October when
Gupta was first charged.  ‘Joint Investigation’  During today’s hearing, David Frankel, a lawyer for Gupta,
argued that his team was also entitled to material collected by
the SEC, including written reports and interviews conducted by
regulators. He argued that prosecutors and regulators had
conducted a “joint investigation” of Gupta.  Kevin McGrath, a lawyer for the SEC, said regulators had
acted independently of prosecutors and that Gupta’s lawyers
weren’t entitled to such information.  Rakoff said he wouldn’t rule on the matter immediately.  In November, Rakoff said Gupta’s lawyer could question
Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and six
others under oath.  Frankel said after court that Gupta’s legal team hasn’t
interviewed Blankfein and that two other Goldman Sachs employees
refused to speak to Gupta’s team.  Rajaratnam, who was convicted by a jury, is serving an 11-
year prison term.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  