-- U.S. Gas Low Enough to Boost Switch From Coal, Goldman Says
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2012-02-17T03:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/u-s-gas-low-enough-to-encourage-coal-switching-goldman-says.html
U.S. natural-gas prices are in a
“stable” range that is low enough to encourage power generators
to switch from coal and high enough to keep gas producers from
cutting production, according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The probability has increased that futures will miss the
bank’s 2012 forecast of $3.10 per million British thermal units,
Goldman said in a report e-mailed today. Contracts for March
delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  traded at about
$2.54 today.  “While low Nymex natural-gas prices are motivating Powder
River basin coal-to-gas substitution, power generation demand
for natural gas has also increased in other regions of the
country, resulting in very strong overall demand from power
generators so far this year,” said  David Greely , Goldman’s head
of energy research in  New York .  Coal demand in the U.S. is collapsing as power companies
switch away from the  fossil fuel  to take advantage of the 
cheapest natural gas in 10 years. Use of coal to generate
electricity will drop 2 percent this year to the lowest since
1992, while gas-fired consumption rises 5.6 percent, according to
the Energy Department.  Gas prices  have tumbled to the weakest
levels since February 2002 this year amid a boom in output and 
milder-than-normal weather.  Natural gas is the worst performer so far in 2012 among 22
commodities ranked by Bloomberg, amid an increase in U.S. output
and milder-than-normal weather. Front-month Nymex futures are
down 15 percent, compared with a 20 percent rally for silver,
the biggest gainer. Use of coal to generate electricity will
drop 2 percent this year to the lowest since 1992, while gas-
fired consumption will rise 5.6 percent, according to a U.S.
Energy Department outlook on Feb. 7.  Upside Surprise  Gas use by power generators has risen 19 percent from a
year ago to about 3 billion cubic feet a day, compared with an
expected increase of 2 billion, according to Goldman. Coal-to-
gas switching in the Central Appalachian, east of the
 Mississippi River , has “surprised to the upside,” it said.
Appalachian coal is the U.S. benchmark grade.  Goldman said it continues to recommend investors buy U.K.
National Balancing Point gas contracts for the fourth quarter, a
call first made in April. The trade has lost 3.9 pence a therm
so far, the report showed.  The U.S. is the world’s second-largest energy user after
 China . Coal accounts for about 45 percent of power generation
and gas totals about 24 percent, Energy Department data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at   manderson34@bloomberg.net  