-- U.S. Files Motion Seeking Moex Accord in BP Spill Case
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-02-18T05:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/u-s-files-motion-seeking-moex-settlement-in-bp-gulf-of-mexico-spill-case.html
Mitsui & Co.’s MOEX Offshore 2007
LLC will pay $90 million to the U.S. and five states to settle
pollution violations related to 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill
while  BP Plc (BP/)  and its drilling fluid provider for the Macondo 
well agreed to dismiss claims against each other.  The U.S. filed a consent order yesterday in federal court
in New Orleans outlining the MOEX settlement of Clean Water Act
violations. The agreement requires MOEX to pay $45 million in
civil penalties to the U.S. and about $25 million total to
 Alabama ,  Florida ,  Louisiana ,  Mississippi  and  Texas , court papers
show. MOEX will also pay $20 million for land acquisition
projects, the U.S. said.  MOEX held a 10 percent share of BP’s Macondo well,
which blew up in April 2010, setting off the largest offshore
oil spill in U.S. history. The company earlier paid BP about
$1 billion to settle claims. The U.S. has also sued BP and
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , which held a 25 percent interest in
the well, over Clean Water Act violations.  The settlement is the first of what may be a series of
agreements with the U.S. as lawsuits over the 2010 spill
approach a trial set for Feb. 27. The U.S.  Justice Department 
sued MOEX, BP, Anadarko and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , which owned the rig
that exploded, in December 2010, seeking fines for each barrel
of oil discharged.  M-1 Agreement  BP agreed with drilling fluid provider M-I Swaco, a unit
of Houston-based  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , not to pursue allegations
against each other, the companies said in a court filing
yesterday. M-I has been named as a defendant in hundreds of
lawsuits over the spill by businesses, property owners and state
governments. M-I said it wasn’t responsible for the Deepwater
Horizon rig explosion and that BP and other companies were,
according to court papers filed last year.  BP said in a claim filed in June that M-I LLC, also known
as M-I Swaco, “failed to provide, control, and monitor the mud
and spacer solutions used on the Deepwater Horizon in a
reasonably safe manner.”  In yesterday’s filing, the companies said they “have
agreed to mutually dismiss with all prejudice all claims that
the parties brought, or could have brought, against each
other.” The filing didn’t mention whether either company would
be making a payment as part of the agreement.  Potential Recoveries  The MOEX settlement doesn’t affect claims against or
potential recoveries from other companies over the spill, the
Justice Department said yesterday in a statement. MOEX no longer
owns a share of the lease, the U.S. said.  “This landmark settlement is an important step -- but only
a first step -- toward achieving accountability and protecting
the future of the Gulf ecosystem by funding critical habitat
preservation projects,” U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said
in the statement.  The Macondo well blowout and the  explosion  that followed
killed 11 workers. The sinking of Transocean’s Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig and subsequent spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP and its partners and contractors.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans , who’s
overseeing much of the spill litigation, has scheduled a nonjury
trial for Feb. 27 to determine liability and apportion fault for
the disaster. M-I remains a defendant in the trial.  $1,100 a Barrel  A U.S. motion to hold BP, Anadarko and Transocean liable by
law for Clean Water Act violations is pending before Barbier. A
ruling against the defendants would allow the U.S. to seek fines
against each company of as much as $1,100 per barrel of oil
spilled, without having to prove the issue of liability at
trial.  The Clean Water Act also allows the government to seek
fines of as much as $4,300 for each spilled barrel on a finding
of gross negligence. The government estimates that 4.1 million
barrels were spilled before the well was capped, putting BP at
risk of fines of as much as $17.6 billion.  BP set aside $3.5 billion for  Clean Water Act  fines,
assuming $1,100 a barrel and its own estimate of 3.2 million
barrels spilled, according to an annual report extract posted on
the company website. The company is negotiating with the U.S.
over settlement of the Clean Water Act claims, according to a
person familiar with the talks.  Daren Beaudo, a BP spokesman, declined to comment on the
MOEX settlement or any possible BP agreement with the U.S. on
pollution law claims.  The company is prepared to settle with other parties before
trial if the conditions are right, Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Dudley  told Bloomberg Television Feb. 7.  ‘Reasonable Settlement’  “With a reasonable settlement, we will settle,” he said.
“If it’s not a reasonable settlement, we’ll go to court.”  The MOEX settlement doesn’t necessarily reflect what other
companies might pay the U.S. “because it had only a 10 percent
ownership share in the Macondo lease and no operational role in
the drilling activity,” said David Uhlmann, a  University of
Michigan  law professor and former chief of the Justice
Department’s environmental crime section.  “Nonetheless, MOEX, like every other company involved
faced far larger civil penalties than they have agreed to pay
yesterday,” he said. “So the question going forward is whether
this heralds similarly modest settlements with the other
companies or is the MOEX settlement an outlier and any other
civil penalties will be much larger.”  John Christiansen, an Anadarko spokesman, declined to
comment on a possible settlement with the U.S.  “Transocean continues to have confidence in the strength
of our case and  is pleased with the court’s recent rulings on
insurance and indemnity matters,” Lou Colasuonno, a spokesman
for the company, said yesterday in an e-mail. “We are unable to
comment on other developments.”  No ‘Admission’  MOEX said in the consent decree that it wasn’t admitting
any liability under the Clean Water Act. The settlement also
wasn’t “an admission by the MOEX entities of any liability for
civil payments or any other claim out of or relating to the
Deepwater Horizon incident,” according to the filing.  In return for the settlement, “the U.S. will provide MOEX
Offshore, MOEX USA, and their affiliates, directors and other
related individuals with a covenant not to sue with respect” to
other possible civil and administrative penalty claims, a MOEX
spokesman said.  MOEX Offshore is a wholly owned unit of MOEX USA, which in
turn is wholly owned by Tokyo-based Mitsui Oil Exploration Co.,
in which  Mitsui & Co. (8031)  holds a 70 percent equity interest.  ‘Outright Mistakes’  MOEX agreed in May 2011 to pay BP $1.065 billion to resolve
all claims between the companies over liability for the spill
tied to the Deepwater Horizon explosion. As part of that accord,
MOEX officials agreed to accept findings by a federal commission
that probed the explosion and concluded the accident resulted
from “a number of causes” tied to “oversights and outright
mistakes” by a number of parties, BP officials said last year.  BP’s  American depositary receipts  rose 97 cents, or 2.1
percent, to $47.62 in trading in  New York  yesterday. Transocean
rose $1.54, or 3.1 percent, to $50.79. Schlumberger fell 0.4
percent to $77.74.  The government case is U.S. v. BP Exploration & Production
Inc., 2:10-cv-04536, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The lawsuit is part of In Re  Oil Spill 
by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April
20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  