-- UAW Bonuses on GM Profit May Lift Economy
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/uaw-7-000-bonuses-on-record-gm-profit-drives-u-s-economy-cars.html
Mike Green says he already knows how
he’s going to use a $7,000 profit-sharing check from  General
Motors Co. (GM) : He’ll help his son buy a new car, throw him a
graduation party and sock some money away in the bank.  “A lot of people are going to catch up on stuff,” said
Green, president of UAW Local 652 in Lansing, Michigan, where GM
builds Cadillacs. “People haven’t really had a raise since 2005.
It’s kind of nice we get to reap some of the rewards now.”  The rebound in carmaker profits is putting money into the
pockets of U.S. workers after years of belt-tightening. GM
yesterday reported a record $9.19 billion in net income for
2011, which will mean profit-sharing bonuses of as much as
$7,000 for 47,500 eligible UAW members. That’s an all-time high
for GM, and up from an average of $4,300 for the company’s U.S.
union workers last year.  The payouts, scheduled for March 2, come on top of similar
bonuses at  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC. The money may
help lift the economies of states with unionized auto factories
such as Michigan, Ohio and Kentucky.  “This is a day that none of us thought we’d see,” said
 Harley Shaiken , labor professor at  University of California  at
Berkeley. “Given what UAW workers have been through, if there
is a time to buy something, it is now.”  The return of bonuses will help consumers shake off fears
from the Great Recession and boost spending, said Donald Grimes,
a senior research specialist at the  University of Michigan  who
studies labor and the economy. Savings rates peaked in December
2009 and have now fallen back to 2004 levels, he said.  Michigan Rising  Already, the economies of Michigan, Indiana and  Ohio  have
improved faster than that of the U.S. since April 2009 as GM and
Chrysler were forced into U.S.-backed bankruptcies as part of an
$80-billion bailout, according to the Philadelphia Federal
Reserve. Michigan is expected to lead all 50 states over the
next six months, the Fed data show.  “This is a reversal of the first half of the 2000s when
Michigan and other auto states bore the brunt of the downturn,”
said Grimes, who conducts annual economic forecasts for the
Institute for Research on Labor, Employment and the Economy.
“Now they are getting a bigger share of the recovery.”  GM posted its record profit as sales rose 7.6 percent last
year to 9.03 million vehicles, allowing the company to outsell
Toyota Motor Corp. and reclaim the title of the world’s top-
selling automaker. GM also benefited from a lower break-even
point from the 2009 bankruptcy.  $49,600 Corvettes  The Upper Midwest will be a hotly contested region in this
year’s presidential election. Michigan and Ohio went for  Barack Obama  in 2008 and now each has a Republican governor. GOP
candidates Mitt Romney and  Rick Santorum  are campaigning against
the auto bailout in Michigan, which has a Republican primary
Feb. 28. President Obama has visited the region several times to
tout the U.S. auto industry’s comeback.  In the battleground state of Ohio,  David Green  says he
plans to pay off his 2011 Chevrolet Cruze sedan with his GM
profit sharing.  “I’m would think some folks are going to save it after
being through some tough times, other people are going to use it
to pay off bills and some are going to go out and buy stuff,”
said Green, president of UAW Local 1714 in Lordstown, Ohio,
which stamps metal parts for the Cruze.  Union workers at the Corvette factory in  Kentucky  will
probably use their profit sharing checks to put a down payment
on the $49,600  sports cars  they build, said Eldon Renaud,
president of United Auto Workers Local 2164 at the Bowling
Green, Kentucky factory that builds the cars.  UAW Discounts  “There are some people ready to put that toward a
Corvette,” he said. “With all the concessions we gave during
and after the bankruptcy, it’s an exciting time. Some of the
money we lost will be made up with this profit sharing.  ‘‘Morale is certainly quickly improving. Everyone is
starting to feel like it was worth biting the bullet.’’  Local businesses are beginning to market specifically to
workers in line for bonuses. The Art Van furniture chain in
 Michigan  is offering GM workers a special promotion of as much
as 65 percent off and no 6 percent state sales tax.  ‘‘We have noticed that auto workers are spending their
bonuses at Art Van,’’ said Diane Charles, a spokeswoman for the
retailer. ‘‘After three years of ‘needs’ spending, there is a
little pent up demand for the ‘want’ spending. Many folks are
beginning to replace furniture, carpet and televisions.’’  Ford paid out about $3,750 in profit sharing in December
for the first half of 2011 and will pay out $2,450 more on March
14 as part of $6,200 in total payments on $20.2 billion profit
last year. Chrysler paid out an average of $1,500 to about
26,000 union workers on Feb. 10.  Jobs Gains  GM paid no bonuses to union workers from 2005 through 2010
and Ford and Chrysler skipped all but two of those years,
according to data compiled by the Center for Automotive Research
in  Ann Arbor , Michigan. The most GM paid before last year was
$1,775 in 1999, Ford paid out a record $8,000 that year and
Chrysler paid its biggest ever bonus as well, at $8,100.  Auto states are starting to see benefits from the
industry’s recovery. Michigan, Ohio and Indiana all ranked among
the top eight performers for improvement of economic health in
the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States from the third
quarter of 2009 through the third quarter of last year. Michigan
gained 66,000 jobs in 2011, according to a Jan. 13  report , the
first gain in the state since the turn of the century.  ‘Problems Lurking’  With about a third of each bonus check going to state and
federal taxes, governments are also gaining from the largess,
said  Sean McAlinden , a labor economist with the Center for
Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Michigan.  ‘‘Michigan tax revenues will certainly benefit: first
income taxes, then sales taxes, then spinoff effect,’’ McAlinden
said. ‘‘I wish I owned an appliance firm.’’  Gary Chaison , professor of industrial relations at  Clark
University  in Worcester,  Massachusetts , said the economic bump
from bonuses may not be as big as before the recession.  ‘‘Most GM workers realize there still may be problems
lurking and that they’re not out of the woods yet,’’ he said.
‘‘They’re not going to go out and buy a summer home or a new
car. They’ll pay a large share in taxes and use the rest to pay
off debts.”  The UAW’s Renaud isn’t among the cautious ones. He plans on
using his $7,000 profit-sharing check to take his wife to  Italy 
to celebrate her new doctorate and his survival at GM.  “Things are finally starting to look up and we’re just
excited that we still have jobs,” said Renaud. “I’m sure my
wife will be excited. I owe her a trip to Italy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  