-- Uganda Keeps Coffee-Output Target Amid Disease, Climate Change
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-02-17T06:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/uganda-keeps-coffee-output-target-amid-disease-climate-change.html
Uganda , Africa’s biggest coffee
exporter, is maintaining its target to boost production to 4.5
million bags by 2015 even as it faces challenges from rising
temperatures and coffee-wilt disease, an industry body said.  The East African nation plans to begin planting seven
strains of robusta-variety trees that are resistant to coffee
wilt, while climate change will partly be combated by irrigation
programs, said Edmund Kananura Kyerere, quality and regulatory
manager at the Uganda Coffee Development Authority.  “We are still targeting increased production,” Kyerere said
in an interview at the African Fine Coffee Conference in  Addis
Ababa , the Ethiopian capital, yesterday. “The target is still
4.5 million bags.”  Uganda exported 3.14 million 60-kilogram (132-pound) bags
of coffee in 2011, ranking the country as the world’s ninth-
biggest shipper of the beans, according to data on the
 International Coffee Organization ’s website. Robusta beans,
which are used in espressos and instant drinks, account for
about 85 percent of the nation’s annual production, according to
the authority.  Output in Uganda has declined from 4.4 million bags in
1996-97 partly because of damage caused by coffee-wilt disease.
The fungus that predominantly affects the robusta variety of
coffee was first detected in Uganda in 1993 and destroyed about
150 million trees, according to the UCDA.  Uganda hopes to plant 200 million trees resistant to the
disease “within 10 years,” Kyerere said.  The authority is campaigning to change the “negative image”
of coffee among Ugandans, he said. The annual increase in
domestic consumption may double to 4 percent next year. “There
are a lot of cafes coming up,” said Kyerere.  Robusta coffee futures have risen 20 percent so far this
year and traded 1.1 percent higher at $2,167 a metric ton on the
NYSE Liffe exchange in  New York  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 