-- Tullow Seen Beating Peers With $30 Billion Africa Find: Energy
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-02-17T17:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/tullow-seen-beating-peers-with-30-billion-africa-find-energy.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K. explorer
that unlocked billions of barrels in frontiers from Uganda to
French Guiana, wants to repeat those landmark finds drilling
onshore East  Africa  as peers target natural gas offshore.  With Canadian partner  Africa Oil Corp. , Tullow is aiming
for at least 300 million barrels of oil worth $30 billion or
more with its first two sites in an underdeveloped area
stretching from  Kenya  to  Ethiopia , a plot almost the size of
 England . Shallow wells for seismic surveys have shown so-called
oil seeps -- an indicator of potential reservoirs.  Tullow “is well-placed to find oil in East Africa,
probably one of the better places to try frontier opportunity,”
said Jason Kenney, an analyst at Banco Santander SA in
Edinburgh.  Tullow leapfrogged peers by finding some 4 billion barrels
in French Guiana and  Ghana  since 2007, and is poised to complete
the sale of two-thirds of its Uganda discovery to  Total SA (FP)  and
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  for $2.9 billion. Tullow’s ability to find new fields
has made it the U.K.’s most-expensive oil explorer, based on the
price that investors are willing to pay for a share of its
earnings.  The  shares  rose 2 percent to a record 1,566 pence in  London 
today.  The Kenyan prospect has similar geology to Uganda, and  oil
prices  are currently at least 7 times higher than benchmark U.S.
natural gas, based on their energy content.  While  Eni SpA (ENI)  of  Rome  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , based
in The Woodlands,  Texas , led exploration off Africa’s east coast
that yielded the biggest gas finds in a decade, Tullow
Exploration Director Angus McCoss said the company has “made a
very deliberate decision to stay focused on oil.”  ‘Magic Opportunity’  The strategy evolved since the Uganda find and counters the
industry view that the local geology is more likely to yield
gas, McCoss said.  “That’s the magic,” McCoss said. “That’s how the
industry got it so wrong and that was our opportunity. We quite
like these deeply entrenched notions the others have, and we
challenge them.”  Tullow has outperformed both the benchmark FTSE All-Share
Index and the 19-member oil and gas subindex in the last 12
months. Thirty-five analysts out of 38 surveyed by Bloomberg
 recommend  buying or holding the shares.  Investors are endorsing its strategy. They’re paying about
33 times expected profit for Tullow shares, the highest price to
earnings ratio on the 19-member FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas
Producers Index. Tullow had a slow start this year, gaining 9.5
percent, ranking eighth out of 19 stocks behind leader  Afren
Plc. (AFR)   Peers Follow  Tullow’s find in Uganda is attracting other explorers to
the region. About 14 companies including Anadarko, Vancouver-
based  Vanoil Energy Ltd. (VEL)  and Afren have signed 26 production-
sharing agreements with Kenya, the country’s Petroleum
Commissioner Martin Heya said in August.  Kenya has no proven oil reserves.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  found gas in the Anza Basin in 1976.  Tanzania  to
the south produces gas from two offshore deposits for domestic
power generation, and neighboring South Sudan is sub-Saharan
Africa’s third-biggest oil producer, after Angola and Nigeria.  “The early indications we have in the rift basin is that
they are generally oil prone,” said Africa Oil Chief Executive
Officer Keith Hill.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Amoco Corp., now
part of  BP Plc (BP/) ,  drilled  wells in Kenya and recovered oil in the
early 1990s, according to Hill.  Cradle of Mankind  Tullow and Africa Oil hired  China ’s BGP Inc. to survey the
 South Omo Block  in the Omo River Delta in Ethiopia, the area
where Richard Leakey and a team of paleontologists  discovered  in
1967 the oldest remains of Homo sapiens known to science. The
partners last month started drilling the Ngamia-1 well in
Kenya’s  Block 10BB , part of a plan for two wells in Kenya and
one in Ethiopia this year. It will take at least 60 days to
drill and the rig will then move to spud the Paipai-1 well in
Block 10A in the second quarter.  It will be “a multi-year exploration program,” Tullow
Chief Operating Officer Paul McDade said.  “There should be some oil,” said  Oswald Clint , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in London. “It’s tough to say
until you drill. Nothing has been discovered yet. It’s a very
underexplored region.”  About 500 exploratory wells have been drilled in  East
Africa , according to data from U.K.-based Afren, which has
exploration licenses in Kenya, Ethiopia and Tanzania. That
compares with almost 15,000 in the west of the continent and
20,000 in north and central Africa.  ‘Oily Area’  The geological formations Tullow is exploring are formed by
tectonic forces pulling apart, trying to split an old plate into
two and creating rifts in the earth’s surface. The company is
focusing on the intersection of a rift that runs diagonally from
South Sudan into Kenya and a North-South rift that resembles the
Lake Albert formation to the west.  “We are particularly interested in the intersection of the
two geological trends,” McCoss said. “There are interesting
parallels” with Uganda.  Afren is betting on the  Gondwanaland  theory, that oil can
be found in places including Kenya and Ethiopia where the
ancient mega-continent broke  apart  200 million years ago.  “Geologically it’s a very oily area,” CEO Osman Shahenshah said.  Tullow seemed to prove the Gondwanaland hypothesis last
year with a discovery in the new frontier off French Guiana,
which mirrors oil-rich West Africa across the Atlantic.  Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  and partners including  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and
 Cove Energy Plc (COV)  are  exploring  off Kenya and hoping that gas
discoveries made to the south in Tanzania and Mozambique are
stretching into their waters.  In Kenyan “deeper-water offshore we are convinced it will
be gas if it works,” said Premier CEO Simon Lockett. “But in
the shallow section there is a potential for oil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  