-- UN’s Ban Criticizes U.S., Iran Over Nuclear Test Treaty Delays
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-02-17T15:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/un-s-ban-criticizes-u-s-iran-over-nuclear-test-treaty-delays.html
United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon criticized the U.S.,  Iran  and six other nations for
failing to ratify a ban on nuclear weapons testing and offered
to meet with their leaders to speed passage of the measure.  “It is distressing that this treaty has yet to enter
force,” Ban said in the Austrian capital at a ceremony
commemorating the 15th anniversary of the accord’s creation.
“Any country opposed to signing or ratifying is simply failing
to meet its responsibilities as a member of the international
community.”  Before becoming UN secretary general, Ban helped create the
Vienna-based organization that oversees the Comprehensive
Nuclear Test Ban Treaty.  It  won’t become law until both the U.S.
Senate and Iran’s parliament ratify the accord.  Egypt ,  India ,
Pakistan,  China  and North Korea must also agree to the terms
before atomic-test explosions are banned.  “I certainly believed that this treaty would have entered
into force by now,” Ban said. He offered to travel and meet
with leaders of the eight countries that have yet to sign the
accord in order to bring the treaty into force.  U.S. President Barack Obama supports the treaty and has
said he’d submit it to the Senate for ratification. Iranian
lawmakers have accused the test ban treaty organization’s
network of spying.  There have been more than 2,000 nuclear test explosions
worldwide since the Manhattan Project’s Trinity test in the U.S.
in July 1945. The last detonation occurred in May 2009, when
 North Korea  conducted a test, an event that was detected at 61
of the UN organization’s seismic stations.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Tirone at +43-1-513-266-025 or
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at +33-1-5365-5075 or
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 