-- Hungarian Forint Rises to 5-Month High, Extending Weekly Gain
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-02-17T16:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/hungarian-forint-heads-for-5-month-high-extending-weekly-gain.html
The forint rose to the strongest in
almost five months as demand for riskier assets rose on
speculation  Greece  will get a second bailout and  Hungary  will
take steps to need to obtain its own rescue.  The currency of Hungary, the European Union’s most indebted
eastern member, appreciated 0.4 percent to 289.9 per euro by 4
p.m. in Budapest, the strongest on a closing level since Sept.
27, capping this week’s 1.5 percent gain.  The MSCI Emerging Market Index rallied 1.2 percent as
people familiar with the talks said European officials are
considering cutting  interest rates  on emergency loans to Greece
and using contributions from the  European Central Bank  to plug a
new financing gap. Hungary said it has submitted responses to
the European Union’s infringement procedures in three areas
including monetary-policy independence.  “Local news has been positive in the past days but it is
primarily the international sentiment which is moving the
market, more specifically the endless Greek story,” Levente Blaho and Adam Keszeg, Budapest-based analysts at Raiffeisen
Bank International AG, wrote in a research report today,
commenting on the forint.  While Hungary expects further debate with the EU on its
central bank law, the Cabinet is willing to compromise on the
issue of the judiciary, state-run news service MTI reported late
yesterday, citing Deputy Prime Minister Tibor Navracsics.  “Some very favorable news was received from  Europe ,
particularly about the Greek rescue, that was clearly what
lifted markets,”  Akos Kuti , head of research at Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt., a Budapest-based broker, said by telephone
today. Signs that obstacles to Hungary’s own bailout will be
removed also supported the rally, Kuti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  