-- Hungary Replies to EU, Sees More Debate on Road to Bailout
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-02-17T15:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/hungary-replies-to-eu-sees-more-debate-on-road-to-bailout-1-.html
Hungary  sent its reply to the
European Commission on the European Union executive’s
infringement procedures in three areas, including monetary-
policy independence, in an effort to revive talks on a bailout.  The reply addressed the independence of the central bank
and the data-protection authority as well as the reduction in
the retirement age of judges, government spokesmen  Peter Szijjarto  and Andras Giro-Szasz said in an e-mail today.  “The next step in the procedure is the evaluation by the
Commission of the responses provided,” according to the
statement. “Previous experience shows that we can expect an
objective, impartial, professionally and legally sound analysis
from the Commission.”  Hungary can’t begin formal talks until it meets EU and
 International Monetary Fund  demands to change a disputed central
bank regulation, which led to the suspension of talks in
December. The 27-member bloc also requested changes to overhauls
of the judiciary and data-protection ombudsman’s office.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  reversed a policy of shunning
international aid in November as the forint fell to a record and
the country’s sovereign-credit grade was cut to junk. A month
later, he said reaching an agreement “isn’t so significant.”
On Jan. 5, he said he wanted a “quick” agreement after the
forint fell to a record.  Forint Gains  The forint has risen 10 percent against the euro since
Orban’s pledge, making it the best-performing currency in the
world in the period. The currency rose 0.3 percent against the
euro to 290.25 at 3:22 p.m. in Budapest. It strengthened as
investors poured money into  emerging markets . The MSCI Emerging
Market Index of shares has rallied almost 16 percent this year.  Hungary remains a “positive idiosyncratic story,”  Luis Costa , a London-based currency strategist at Citigroup Inc.,
said in an e-mail today. The “central assumption” is that
Hungary will obtain a bailout in the second quarter, which may
support further improvement in Hungarian risk, Costa said.  In its reply to the EU, Hungary also addressed concerns
about the functioning of the judiciary and the “situation of
the media,” in addition to the three infringement cases,
according to the government statement.  ‘Further Debate’  The government expects “further debate” with the European
Commission about cutting the central bank president’s salary and
his oath of office, Deputy Prime Minister Tibor Navracsics said
yesterday, according to state news service MTI. On the judicial
overhaul, the government would allow judges to work past the new
 retirement age  “in certain cases,” MTI said.  That suggests Hungary’s start of formal talks on a loan
with the IMF and the EU may be delayed as a rally in local
assets reduces pressure on the government to reach an agreement,
according to  Daniel Bebesy  of Budapest Fund Management.  “The market had forced the government to change course in
the first place and as market conditions improve, I sense that
the government doesn’t feel the same pressure to come to an
agreement,” Bebesy, who helps oversee $1.5 billion, mostly in
Hungarian  government bonds , said in an interview today.  Hungary may be pressed to meet debt-payment obligations
this year if the euro crisis worsens and economic growth misses
the government’s 0.5 percent forecast, the IMF said on Jan. 25,
underscoring the need for a financial safety net.  Growth Forecast  The IMF is considering a cut in its 0.3 percent growth
estimate for Hungary for this year, Iryna Ivaschenko, the
lender’s representative in Budapest, said on Feb. 9.  The central back unexpectedly held the  benchmark interest
rate  unchanged last month at 7 percent, the highest level in the
EU, in a four-to-three vote, with the majority saying that the
improvement in country risk will last.  Hungary should keep borrowing costs unchanged until the
government reaches an agreement with the IMF, which may allow
rate cuts, policy makers Ferenc Gerhardt and Gyorgy Kocziszky
said in an interview on Feb. 15.  Negotiations are “unlikely to be as smooth as many now
seem to expect,”  William Jackson , a London-based economist at
Capital Economics Ltd., said in an e-mail today, citing the
government’s “significant credibility gap.”  “Accordingly, we would not be surprised to see a fresh
spike in investor risk aversion put Hungarian assets under
renewed strains this year, resulting in further defensive
 interest-rate  hikes,” Jackson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  