-- Unilever, PepsiCo India CEOs see Consumption Slow Before Rebound
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-02-17T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/unilever-pepsico-india-ceos-see-short-term-consumption-slowdown.html
India ’s consumption will continue to
grow at a slower pace before rebounding, said chief executives
of  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR)  and PepsiCo. India Holdings Pvt.  “We live in challenging times,” Nitin Paranjpe, chief
executive officer at Hindustan Unilever, said at a conference in
Mumbai on Feb. 16. “The short term is likely to be volatile.”
The so-called fast-moving consumer goods industry, or FMCG, will
see “slightly” lower growth, PepsiCo India CEO Manu Anand
said.  India’s government expects the economy to grow at the
slowest pace since 2009, as consumers spend less amid high
inflation. The  Reserve Bank  of India raised key  interest rates 
by a record amount from 2010 until October last year to curb
rising prices in the world’s second most-populous nation.  “Consumers take longer to make decisions about their
purchases because they were uncertain about the economic
outlook, said Sadashiv Nayak, CEO of Future Value Retail, a
subsidiary of  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF)  ‘‘People are
differentiating between essential and things that are not so
essential.’’  Rising borrowing costs hurt Pantaloon, the country’s
largest retail company, which reported a loss of 79.6 million
rupees ($1.6 million) in the second quarter ended Dec. 31,
compared with a 124 million-rupee profit a year earlier.  Reliance Retail Ltd., a unit of India’s  most  valuable
company, Reliance Industries Ltd., expects consumer confidence
to rebound in the second half of 2012, said Bijou Kurien,
president of the company’s lifestyle operations.  Little Impact  A slowdown in consumer spending has had little impact on
same-store sales which grew eight percent to 22 percent in
January from a year earlier, he said.  India may see significant increases in consumption amid
growing incomes, said Paranjpe from Hindustan Unilever, a unit
of the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker.  India’s  consumer spending  is likely to almost quadruple by
2020 to $3.6 trillion spurred by economic growth and rising
incomes, as household incomes could climb 2.9 times from 2010 to
2020, according to the Boston Consulting Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  