-- Lupatech Jumps on Speculation of Odebrecht Takeover: Rio Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-02-17T20:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/lupatech-jumps-on-speculation-of-odebrecht-takeover-rio-mover.html
Lupatech SA (LUPA3) , a Brazilian oil-
equipment and services provider, rose to the highest in almost
three months on speculation it has become a takeover target.  Lupatech, based in Caxias do Sul,  Brazil , jumped 14 percent
to 5.92 reais at the close in Sao Paulo, the highest since Nov.
21. The stock is up 33 percent this year, more than the 16.7
percent gain in Brazil’s Bovespa index.  Odebrecht SA (ODBE4) , a Brazilian construction and chemicals group
that also makes oil platforms, is considering buying Lupatech,
Estado de S. Paulo columnist Sonia Racy said on the newspaper’s
 website  today, without saying where she got the information.  Brazilian development bank BNDES and pension fund Petros
last year agreed to buy a combined 300 million reais ($175
million) of Lupatech stock as part of a 700 million-real offer.
Lupatech, which has posted losses every quarter since the
beginning of 2010, is shifting its focus to oil exploration
after bets that a production boom would stoke demand for its
ropes and valves failed to materialize.  “They don’t have liquidity and they are very leveraged,”
Erick Hood, an analyst at SLW Corretora brokerage, said by
telephone from  Sao Paulo . “Nothing is stopping other companies
from making an offer, I think that would be viable.”  Lupatech declined to comment in an e-mailed response.
Odebrecht Oleo e Gas, the oil-equipment and services division of
Odebrecht, doesn’t have any “concrete” plans to make
acquisitions at this time, the company said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The company is “constantly studying”
growth opportunities, it said.  Odebrecht’s press office referred all questions on Lupatech
to its oil-services division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  