-- Utah Immigration Laws Violate Constitution and Must Be Blocked, U.S. Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   S h e l l e y   O s t e r l o h
-- 2012-02-17T23:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/utah-immigration-laws-violate-constitution-and-must-be-blocked-u-s-says.html
A  Utah  law requiring police to
verify the immigration status of people arrested on felony
charges violates the U.S. Constitution and must be blocked,
lawyers for the federal government said.  That measure was included in a package of four bills signed
into law last year by Governor Gary R. Herbert in a legislative
package he called “the Utah solution” to illegal immigration.  The U.S. asked U.S. District Judge Clark Waddoups in Salt
Lake City for an order temporarily blocking the status-
verification law and two other measures it says conflicts with
powers reserved to the federal government. Justice Department
attorney Joshua Wilkenfeld told Waddoups today that the law also
risks damaging federal prosecution of more serious crimes, such
as drug trafficking.  “Just asking aliens for information can interfere with
government’s ability to pursue high priorities of federal  law
enforcement ,” he said.  Barry Lawrence, a lawyer in the office of Utah Attorney
General Mark Shurtleff, said the purpose of the statute is to
identify people who are arrested and to determine how many
crimes are committed by those who aren’t lawfully in the U.S.  “An officer cannot walk up and say, ‘Show me your
papers,’” Lawrence said. “What we are doing is identifying
people who are committing crimes. If there isn’t an arrest, we
don’t get to the verification.”  Subject to Removal  The U.S. also asked the judge to block enforcement of
measures authorizing police to arrest without a warrant people
they believe are subject to the removal order of an immigration
judge and making it a felony to encourage or induce an illegal
alien to enter or settle in Utah.  “In our constitutional system, the power to regulate
immigration is exclusively vested in the federal government,”
the U.S. argued in court papers. “The state of Utah has crossed
this constitutional line.”  The U.S. sued to block the law in November, six months
after a challenge was first lodged by a Latino civil rights
advocacy group, Utah Coalition of La Raza. Waddoups has
consolidated the cases.  The state argues the U.S. is mischaracterizing the
legislation, known as HB 497, and says it’s consistent with
congressional mandates and is constitutional.  Not ‘Complicated’  “This issue is neither difficult nor complicated,” the
state’s attorneys told Waddoups in a Jan. 17 submission.  Utah spends almost $8 million a year to keep about 300
illegal immigrants in prison, according to the state’s filing,
while more than $55 million is spent on public education of
undocumented children.  “There are those who will say these bills may not be
perfect, but they are a step in the right direction and they are
better than what we had,” Herbert said in a statement after
signing the legislation on March 15.  Utah’s act and immigration measures enacted by the
governors of  Arizona , Alabama and  South Carolina  have all been
challenged by the U.S. government.  The U.S. Supreme Court in December said it would review a
San Francisco-based federal appeals court’s 2011 ruling that
barred enforcement of an Arizona law requiring police to check
immigration status when they stop or arrest a person they have
reasonable suspicion to believe is in the country illegally.  Arizona Neighbor  Utah lies in a different federal appellate circuit than
Arizona, its neighbor to the south.  An Atlanta-based appeals court on March 1 will hear
arguments on state and federal government challenges to a
September ruling by U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in Birmingham,  Alabama , blocking parts of package of
immigration control measures signed into law by Alabama Governor
Robert Bentley.  A federal judge in South Carolina, Richard M. Gergel, in
December blocked enforcement of a law in that state which would
require police officers suspecting somebody of unlawfully being
in the U.S. to check their legal status.  South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley’s administration is
appealing Gergel’s decision to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Richmond, Virginia.  Empowered States  Congress has empowered the states to communicate and
cooperate with one another and with the federal government on
immigration enforcement efforts, Utah said in court papers
opposing the U.S. bid for a court order blocking the law.  “HB 497 reflects Utah’s attempt to undertake its
supporting role in the fight against illegal immigration, within
the parameters set by Congress,” Utah told Waddoups. “HB 497
does not conflict with Congress’ mandate, but is entirely
consistent with it.”  While Waddoups heard about six hours of argument today, he
issued no ruling on the preliminary injunction request and said
he may refrain from doing so until after the Supreme Court rules
in the Arizona case.  A temporary restraining order issued by Waddoups in May
blocked the law from taking effect. The judge today said at the
end of today’s hearing that that order remains in effect.  Outside the court, Alicia Cervantes -- a Utah native of
Latino descent who was a co-plaintiff when the lawsuit was filed
by the Utah Coalition of La Raza last year -- told reporters she
feared the legislation could separate families and divide
communities.  “It’s not the Utah I grew up in,” she said. “Utah
deserves better than that.”  The case is Utah Coalition of La Raza v. Herbert, 11-401,
U.S. District Court, District of Utah ( Salt Lake City ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Shelley Osterloh in Salt Lake City at 
 shelley.osterloh@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 