-- Venezuela Names Temporary Board at Steelmaker Sidetur
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2012-02-17T20:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/venezuela-names-temporary-board-at-steelmaker-sidetur-1-.html
Venezuela  named a temporary state-
run board at steelmaker Siderurgica del Turbio SA after the
government seized the company’s assets in 2010, according to a
resolution by the Industry Ministry published today in the
Official Gazette.  Sidetur’s management had continued to operate the company
since the seizure as it waited to conclude compensation talks
with the government. Ramon Ernesto Perdomo was named as the head
of the board, according to the resolution.  President  Hugo Chavez  said today that his government took
control of six of Sidetur’s plants after some workers protested
against the previous administration, slowing output.  “Sidetur had been producing steel rods at half of its
capacity and there have been labor strikes that were affecting
the supply of rods to our housing projects,” Chavez said on
state television.  Chavez has seized the two largest steel companies since
2008, including Siderurgica del Orinoco, or Sidor, that was
previously operated by  Ternium SA. (TX)  Chavez created a housing
program last year to try to close a 2 million unit deficit as he
seeks re-election in presidential elections in October.  Venezuela agreed to pay Ternium $1.97 billion for Sidor.  Chavez’s government seized seven processing plants and 15
scrap metal collection centers belonging to Sidetur in November
2010 and its owners went to the  Supreme Court  to appeal the
expropriation decree, according to an earnings statement on the
company’s website.  Outstanding Bonds  Sidetur has about $80 million of 10 percent bonds due in
2016 outstanding. The yield on the bonds rose 21 basis points,
or 0.21 percentage point, to 18.58 percent today at 3:15 p.m. in
 New York , according to Hapoalim Securities USA Inc. The price
fell 0.5 cents to 75.5 cents on the dollar.  The steelmaker will buy back its debt once it receives
compensation, Oswaldo Sahmkow, finance director of Sivensa,
Sidetur’s parent company, said in a phone interview on December
6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  