-- Van Gogh Work Trails Estimate at $1.2 Million India Art Auction
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-02-17T12:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/vincent-van-gogh-landscape-trails-estimate-at-1-2-million-india-art-sale.html
The first auction of western art in
 India  by a Mumbai-based company fetched $1.2 million, trailing
forecasts, as fewer than half the works found buyers and a
Vincent  Van Gogh  painting sold below its estimated price.  “L’Allee aux deux promeneurs” (Lane With Two Figures), an
early landscape by the largely self-taught artist, sold for
$697,000, failing to meet an estimate of $800,000 to $1 million.
Van Gogh painted it in 1885 in the Dutch village of Neunen where
he was living, according to  Saffronart  auction house.  The sale, featuring works by  Pablo Picasso ,  Henri Matisse 
and  Salvador Dali , was forecast to raise $3.3 million to $4.2
million. It managed only 36 percent of the low estimate, as 41
of the 73 works on the block went unsold, according to the
auction house’s  website .  The lower-than-expected price for the impressionist and
modern pieces in India contrasts with demand for Indian works in
auctions last year across the world. Paintings by Tyeb Mehta,
 Jehangir Sabavala  and Syed Haider Raza sold for more than their
estimates at auctions by Saffronart,  Sotheby’s (BID)  and Christie’s
International in September, when buyers paid a total of $14
million for Indian art over two weeks.  Saffronart’s latest auction  featured  largely minor works by
western artists just as India’s government predicted the weakest
economic expansion this year since 2009, potentially damping
demand. While museum-quality works are fetching higher prices,
more routine pieces may struggle to sell at a time when an
increasing number of investment-minded buyers are migrating to
the more fashionable market for contemporary art, dealers said.  All three Dali works found buyers, with two beating their
top estimates. A drawing, sculpture and lithograph by the
Surrealist artist fetched a total of $65,880. Buyers paid a
total of $74,160 for five works by Picasso, according to
Saffronart’s website. There were 12 pieces on sale by the
Spanish artist, the world auction market’s No. 4 earner in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 