-- Virgin Sees Monopoly Threat From IAG-BMI Deal
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-02-17T00:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/virgin-complains-to-eu-over-monopoly-threat-from-iag-s-bmi-deal.html
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. said it
submitted a complaint to the European union regarding IAG’s
planned purchase of  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  unit BMI, highlighting
the likelihood of higher fares should the deal go through.  Virgin, which competes with IAG’s British Airways unit at
London Heathrow airport, said in a statement that if the
takeover is cleared three U.K. routes from the hub, to Aberdeen,
Edinburgh and Manchester, will become monopoly operations.  “The regulators cannot allow British Airways to sew up U.K.
flying and squeeze the life out of the travelling public,”
 Richard Branson , Virgin’s billionaire owner, said in the
release. “It is vital that regulatory authorities give this
merger the fullest possible scrutiny and ensure it is stopped.”  IAG, as  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  is
known, said Dec. 22  it had agreed to buy BMI for 172.5 million
pounds ($272 million), beating out Virgin. While the deal will
give BA and sister carrier Iberia 53 percent of Heathrow slots,
that’s short of the 66 percent that  Lufthansa  (LHA) has in  Frankfurt 
and the 59 percent controlled by  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  in Paris.  “Our planned purchase of BMI is being reviewed by the
regulatory authorities and we’re confident they will approve the
deal,” IAG said in emailed response to Virgin’s comments.  Competition would also be eradicated to some European
destinations, Virgin said, providing British Airways with the
opportunity to reduce flights and “increase fares dramatically.”
BMI’s exit from the Heathrow-Glasgow route last year left BA as
the only operator and resulted in a 34 percent hike, it said.  European antitrust regulators will rule on the acquisition
by March 16, the EU said Feb. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  