-- Visteon Said to Near Sale of Lighting Unit to Varroc Grou
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-02-17T21:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/visteon-said-to-be-nearing-sale-of-vehicle-lighting-unit-to-varroc-group.html
Visteon Corp (VC) ., the auto-parts maker
shopping two of its four units, is in talks with  India ’s Varroc
Group about a sale of its lighting unit, three people familiar
with the sales process said.  A deal may come as early as the end of the month, two of
the people said, and the discussions could break down. The unit,
Visteon’s smallest, may fetch $75 million to $100 million, the
people said. Its net worth is $150 million, so Visteon would
have to take a noncash writedown related to the sale, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  The negotiations are part of management’s plan for Visteon,
which exited a 16-month bankruptcy in 2010, to pare lower-margin
revenue in interiors and lighting to focus on faster-growing
operations in Asia, five people familiar with the sales process
said in October.  Varroc is an Aurangabad, India-based supplier of parts for
passenger and commercial vehicles and motorcycles. Its customers
include Honda Motor Co., Yamaha Motor Co.,  Fiat SpA (F) ,  General
Motors Co. (GM) , Caterpillar Inc. and Visteon, according to its
 website .  Visteon’s lighting unit, which had $456 million in
consolidated revenue in 2010, is the sixth-largest in a $9.5
billion market. About 81 percent of the revenue comes from  North
America  and Europe, the company said in a July presentation. The
unit’s gross margin, which measures gross profit as a percentage
of revenue, is 2.6 percent, according to the presentation.  Interiors Deal  Jim Fisher , a spokesman for Visteon, declined to comment on
the company’s plans. Tarang Jain, managing director of Varroc,
reached on his cellphone, didn’t provide a comment.  Visteon began simplifying its corporate structure in
November when it signed a nonbinding memorandum of understanding
to sell most of its interiors unit to Yanfeng Visteon, the
Chinese joint venture with  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104)  SAIC has right of
first refusal on the sale of Visteon’s stake, two of the five
people said in October.  Rothschild is representing Visteon in its effort to sell
the two divisions, the people said in October. Chief Executive
Officer Don Stebbins hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Rothschild for advice for a strategic review, the company said
Oct. 17.  Independent Directors  The company rose 2.3 percent to $55.43 at the close in New
York. Visteon, which peaked at $75.75 in February 2011, gained
11 percent this year.  Independent board members such as Harry Wilson and Tim Leuliette pressed Stebbins to interview banks such as Goldman,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to help streamline a
company with most of its value in joint ventures or stakes in
overseas businesses, two people familiar with the process said
in October.  Visteon, based in Van Buren Township, Michigan, also plans
to buy the remaining 30 percent of  Halla Climate Control Corp. (018880) ,
a publicly traded Daejeon, South Korea-based maker of vehicle
air conditioners and heaters, the five people said in October.  The company’s market capitalization, $2.86 billion, has
been less than the value of its stakes in Halla and Shanghai-
based Yanfeng Visteon Automotive Trim Systems Co., the venture
with SAIC, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ford Spinoff  Visteon now has a third the revenue it had in 2000, when it
spun off from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  as a standalone company. Originally
dependent on the North American market, in 2010 Visteon said it
got 40 percent of its sales from  Asia (VC)  and 36 percent from
Europe. It counts  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , based in Seoul, among its
biggest customers. Including results from unconsolidated joint
ventures, Visteon gets 56 percent of its sales from Asia.  The units being sold are less profitable than Visteon as a
whole, which reported a 10.2 percent gross margin in 2010, the
company said in a July investor presentation.  Visteon’s interiors business, with $2.16 billion in revenue
in 2010, trails only  Faurecia (EO)  SA in the $43 billion global
market. Visteon forecasts its market share to grow to 7 percent
by 2014 and the total market to expand to $52 billion. The
company’s target is to boost the unit’s gross margin to at least
8 percent by 2014 from 6 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  