-- Vivus Obesity Pill May Require More Heart Data Before FDA Approval Given
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-02-17T21:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/vivus-obesity-pill-may-need-more-heart-data-before-fda-decision.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS) ’s analysis of heart risks
for Qnexa, a  weight-loss  pill rejected by U.S. regulators in
2010, was “somewhat reassuring,”  Food and Drug Administration 
staff said in a  report  today.  They still asked that agency advisers, set to meet Feb. 22
on the drug, consider whether more risk data should be gathered
by the company before approval. Qnexa is one of three obesity
medications vying to be the first in 13 years on the market.  The drug, which analysts  have said  may generate $448
million in sales in 2015, combines the appetite suppressant
phentermine with topiramate, an antiseizure and migraine
medicine. Vivus, based in  Mountain View ,  California , has
proposed a post-approval trial to assess Qnexa against placebo
in reducing major heart events in an obese, at-risk population.  “The positive here is the FDA is saying exactly what the
data says,” said Jason Butler, an analyst with JMP Securities
in  New York  said in a telephone interview. “This drug has risk,
it has side effects. The benefit here is compelling.”  Vivus rose 7.3 percent to $11.99 at 4 p.m. New York time,
after jumping 43 percent in the 12 months before today.  The FDA also plans to have advisers discuss in March the
possibility of requiring heart risk studies for obesity drugs.  Agency staff wrote that they have the authority to restrict
certain patients from using Qnexa “to ensure the benefits of a
drug outweigh the risks” while minimizing “the burden on the
health-care system and the barriers to patient access.”
Severely restricting topiramate is not practicable because it is
also treats other serious conditions, the staff wrote.  Varying Opinions  Analysts varied on their take on the FDA staff report.  While Butler said the documents give Vivus a good
opportunity to convince the panel Qnexa deserves approval, Steve Yoo, an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. in New York, said in a
note to clients today they suggest the drug will not be approved
by April 17, when the FDA is due to make a decision. The
briefing documents indicate the FDA is taking “a cautious
stance,” Yoo said.  The membership on the panel that will meet Feb. 22 is
“somewhat negatively biased,” Michael King, an analyst at
Rodman & Renshaw in New York, wrote in a note to clients today.
Five members have previously voted against one of the three
experimental obesity drugs and four in favor, he said.  The panel meeting “should be like a New York football
Giants game, decided in the last minute by a field goal,” King
said.  Other Drugmakers  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX) , based in  La Jolla , California,
and San Diego-based  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  also are seeking
approval for their obesity medicines, which the FDA refused to
approve without more data on safety risks.  More than one-third of U.S. adults are obese, and another
third are overweight, according to the  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention . The obesity rate among adults has more
than doubled since 1980 to 72 million people.  Obesity raises the risks of diabetes, heart attacks and
stroke, and costs the  U.S. economy  an estimated $147 billion a
year in medical expenses and lost productivity, according to the
Atlanta-based CDC.  Topiramate is the active ingredient in  Johnson & Johnson ’s
Topamax. The anticonvulsant is also associated with confusion,
difficulty with concentration and memory loss.  Vivus examined medical claims data and found five oral
clefts in a group of 1,740 children whose mothers had taken
topiramate alone in the first trimester of pregnancy, for a
prevalence rate of 0.29 percent, the company said Dec. 21 in a
 statement . That compared with a rate of 0.16 percent in the
group whose mothers had taken antiseizure drugs, including
topiramate, before pregnancy.  Vivus Results  Vivus plans to finish the results in the third quarter of
this year, after the April 17 deadline for the FDA to decide
whether to approve the drug. The risk of oral clefts has not
been fully answered by the interim data, FDA staff said.  The FDA asked Vivus in January to remove wording from
Qnexa’s prescribing label advising women with the potential to
become pregnant against taking it.  There’s a significant need for new obesity therapies, said
Joseph Nadglowski, president of the Obesity Action Coalition, a
patient advocacy group in Tampa,  Florida .  “We really go from Weight Watchers to bariatric surgery
when it comes to treatment options,” Nadglowski said in an
interview. “For many, that’s a pretty big gap.”  The FDA hasn’t approved a prescription drug for long-term
weight loss since Swiss drugmaker  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Xenical in
1999. London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Alli, a half-dose
version of Xenical’s active ingredient, won FDA clearance in
2007 as the first diet drug available without a prescription.  The drugs’ active ingredient, orlistat, blocks the body’s
absorption of fat. Xenical brought in $269 million in  revenue  in
fiscal 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  