-- Volcker Said to Lobby SEC Chairman Personally on Volcker Rule
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-17T22:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/volcker-said-to-lobby-sec-s-schapiro-personally-on-proprietary-trading-ban.html
Former Federal Reserve chairman  Paul Volcker  met in person with U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  this week to discuss the
proposed ban on proprietary trading named for him, according to
a person familiar with the meeting.  Volcker, 84, has been a prominent advocate for the ban,
which he asserts would curb the kind of risky trading that
contributed to the 2008 financial crisis.  “Proprietary trading of financial instruments --
essentially speculative in nature -- engaged in primarily for
the benefit of limited groups of highly paid employees and of
stockholders does not justify the taxpayer subsidy implicit in
routine access to Federal Reserve credit, deposit insurance or
emergency support,” Volcker wrote in a  commentary  submitted to
regulators Feb. 13.  Volcker met with Schapiro in her office to discuss the
proposed rule on Feb. 15, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the meeting hasn’t yet been made public. The
two also discussed Volcker’s views on money-market funds and
international accounting standards, the person said.  Volcker didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call
requesting comment.  The ban on proprietary trading, proposed by Volcker when he
served as an economic adviser to President Barack Obama, was
among the most prominent provisions in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act’s
overhaul of Wall Street rules.  The rule, which was issued in draft form in October, is
scheduled to take effect in July. A public comment period on the
proposal closed Feb. 13.  In addition to the SEC, the rule must also be approved by
the  Federal Reserve , Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 