-- U.S. Volcker Rule Could Hurt Liquidity, Bipartisan Senators Say
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-02-17T01:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/volcker-rule-may-hurt-bank-liquidity-bipartisan-senators-tell-regulators.html
A proposed U.S. ban on proprietary
trading may limit liquidity and restrict bank market-making for
clients, six Republican and Democratic senators told the  Federal
Reserve  and other regulators.  “The proposed rule, as drafted, could adversely affect
Main Street businesses by reducing market liquidity and
increasing the cost of capital,” the senators said in a letter
today. “There is evidence that this is already beginning to
occur.”  The letter was signed by Democratic Senators Tom Carper of
Delaware,  Mark Warner  of Virginia and  Chris Coons  of Delaware;
and Republicans  Pat Toomey  of Pennsylvania,  Mike Crapo  of Idaho
and Scott Brown of Massachusetts. The prop-trading ban is part
of the Volcker rule, named after former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , within the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act overhaul of Wall Street
rules. The ban was backed by lawmakers seeking to limit risky
trading at banks that operate with federal guarantees.  “As market-makers reduce or eliminate inventory, liquidity
is reduced and trading spreads widen,” the senators said in the
letter. “This will increase trading costs paid by investors,
thereby reducing returns for investors large and small alike.”  The letter was sent to regulators charged with implementing
the Volcker rule, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
Securities and Exchange Commission, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Venture Capital  The proposed rule’s limits on banks’ private equity and
hedge-fund investments may restrict  venture capital , the
senators said.  “We urge you to address the definition of covered funds in
order to prevent disrupting commonly held corporate structures,
used mainly for ordinary course lending and investing, and to
conclude that venture capital funds are not covered by the
Volcker rule,” the senators said.  In scores of comment letters filed on Feb. 13, bankers and
their trade associations said the rule would increase risk,
raise investor costs, hurt U.S. competitiveness and be
vulnerable to legal challenge.  “The proposal, if implemented in its current form, will
overly restrain our customer-facing market-making businesses and
our risk-mitigating hedging activities to the detriment of our
customers,”  Colm Kelleher , co-president of Morgan Stanley’s
institutional securities group, and  Jim Rosenthal , the company’s
chief operating officer, wrote in a Feb. 13 letter.  The lawmakers responsible for the provision’s inclusion in
Dodd-Frank -- Democratic senators Carl Levin of Michigan and
Jeff Merkley of Oregon -- urged regulators in a Feb. 13 letter
to be more forceful in implementing the rule.  “The Volcker rule demands  Wall Street  change its
culture,” Merkley and Levin wrote in their own comment letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  