-- VW’s Sales Growth Slows in January on China
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s
-- 2012-02-17T10:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/vw-s-sales-growth-slows-in-january-as-china-europe-contract.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s largest
carmaker, reported slowing growth in global deliveries last
month as sales in China and Europe contracted.  VW registrations rose 1.3 percent in January to 652,500
vehicles, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker said in an e-
mailed statement today. Sales in China, VW’s biggest market,
dropped 4.5 percent and European deliveries fell 1 percent.  “2012 will be a challenging year,” sales chief Christian Klingler said in the statement. “The prevailing economic
uncertainty is impacting the automotive industry. We will
continue to keep a very close eye on the market situation,
particularly in Europe.”  Passenger-vehicle deliveries in China, the world’s largest
market, dropped the most in more than seven years last month
after an earlier-than-usual Lunar New Year holiday season
deprived dealers of a week’s worth of sales and the economy
shows signs of cooling. Automakers expect the European car
market to contract in 2012 for the fifth straight year as the
region’s sovereign debt crisis discourages purchases.  “If  China  is a little bit weak, it can be explained by the
difference in the Chinese New Year,” said Adam Hull, a London-
based analyst at WestLB who recommends buying Volkswagen stock.
“They’ve also still got low inventories in China, with heavy
discounting from competitors, so because inventories are low
they’ve not had to react to that.”  European Slide  Chinese deliveries of passenger automobiles, including
multipurpose and sport-utility vehicles, dropped 24 percent from
a year earlier to 1.16 million units last month, the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers said last week. Sales
were projected to drop 18 percent, according to the median of a
Bloomberg News survey of five analysts.  European auto Registrations in January fell 6.6 percent to
1 million vehicles, marking the fourth consecutive monthly
decline, the Brussels-based European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association, or ACEA, said yesterday in a statement.  Volkswagen (VOW3) ’s sales gain for the month came on the strength
of demand in the U.S., where the automaker’s deliveries surged
40 percent to 36,700 vehicles. It was VW’s best January in the
market since 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Jasper at   cjasper@bloomberg.net  