-- WaMu Bankruptcy Judge to Approve $7 Billion Reorganization
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-17T21:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/wamu-judge-approves-7-billion-reorganization-plan-overruling-objections.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WM)  won court
approval for a $7 billion reorganization plan that resolves some
legal claims related to the biggest  U.S. bank  to fail.  Creditors may be paid the first chunk of money as early as
March 8 once a deadline passes for shareholders to decide
whether they will waive their right to sue over the collapse of
WaMu’s former bank, said  Fred Hodara , a lawyer for the
creditors’ committee.  “It should be confirmed immediately so stakeholders can
get a distribution,” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath said
today in Wilmington,  Delaware . Walrath said she will sign a
final order approving the plan after wording changes are
submitted by company lawyers.  The approval followed a deal struck this week to allow
common shareholders to split ownership of the only unit of WaMu
that will emerge from bankruptcy, a reinsurance company valued
at about $140 million. Even with the deal, shareholders will
still lose more than other WaMu investors, Edgar Sargent, with
the  law firm  Susman Godfrey LLP, said in court.  “Getting to a recovery for shareholders was not an easy
process,” Florin Matache, a shareholder who estimates he lost
about $10,000 on WaMu common stock purchased before the
bankruptcy, said in an interview after the hearing. “I am not
sure the struggle was worth it.”  Break Even  Matache, a 34-year-old pharmacist from Roseville,
 California , said he tried to cut his losses after the Chapter 11
filing by buying WaMu securities that had dropped in value.
Should the reinsurance company be worth $140 million, as WaMu
financial advisers estimated, Matache expects to break even on
his post-bankruptcy investments.  Bondholders, some of whom bought WaMu’s debt for pennies on
the dollar after the company’s 2008 collapse and bankruptcy
filing, will be repaid in full plus interest, according to court
documents.  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co . for $1.9 billion.
Washington Mutual Bank had more than 2,200 branches and $188
billion in deposits.  Creditors will collect more than $7 billion, mainly from
about $4 billion in cash that WaMu had on deposit with the
banking unit bought by JPMorgan and from tax refunds. The cash
and the refunds were split with JPMorgan and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. to settle a dispute about who owned the assets
and who should be held responsible for WaMu’s collapse.  Shared Recovery  Today’s approval of WaMu’s plan came after a group of
creditors known as the TPS Consortium, who hold securities that
resemble preferred shares, agreed to switch their vote and
support the proposal.  In return for their support, the group’s members will share
stock in the reinsurance company that would exit bankruptcy
under the plan. Those creditors and another group of investors
who hold the same securities will share $18 million provided by
JPMorgan.  The deal removed the last major objection to the plan, WaMu
attorney  Brian Rosen , with the law firm  Weil, Gotshal & Manges
LLP , said in court. He compared a small stack of objections for
this version of the plan, the seventh, to the hundreds of
written critiques of the previous plan.  “It was like the winner of the ‘Biggest Loser’ contest,”
Rosen said, referring to the reality-television show in which
obese people try to lose weight.  About 15.5 million common shares traded hands today, the
highest volume since Dec. 13, and almost three times the 30-day
moving average. The shares rose 7.6 percent to 4.5 cents in
over-the-counter trading, according to information compiled by
Bloomberg.  The bankruptcy case is In re  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) ,
08-12229,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  