-- Warm Temperatures in Eastern U.S. May Mean Less Energy Consumed
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-17T13:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/warm-temperatures-in-eastern-u-s-may-mean-less-energy-consumed.html
Mild weather may mean less energy is
needed to heat homes and businesses in the eastern U.S. next
week, said  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives.  Temperatures from the northern Great Plains to the western
Great Lakes, including Chicago, are expected to be about 6
degrees Fahrenheit (3.3 Celsius) above normal from tomorrow
through Feb. 24, Salmon said. Temperatures will range from 2 to
6 degrees above normal across the rest of the East.  Energy use from the Mississippi River Valley to the
Northeast and mid-Atlantic states will probably be about 20
percent below normal during the period, and even lower along the
Gulf of Mexico, said Salmon.  Traders watch temperature predictions to gauge demand for
natural gas, heating oil and electricity. Weather in the eastern
U.S. affects energy use more because the population density is
higher than in the West. About 51 percent of U.S. households use
natural gas for heating, the Energy Department says.  A storm bringing rain and snow showers this weekend to the
mid-Atlantic region may send high temperatures down into the
mid-30s and lows into the 20s in  Washington , according to the
National Weather Service. Chicago will have highs in the 30s and
partly cloudy skies this weekend.  New York may be warmer, with temperatures near 50 tomorrow
and 40 to 45 though the middle of next week, according to Rob Carolan, a meteorologist with Hometown Forecast Services in
Nashua,  New Hampshire .  Mild in East  Mild weather is expected to remain in the East through Feb.
26, according to a 6- to 10-day outlook from  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Frigid air will cover most of Canada and the western U.S.
from Feb. 27 to March 2, according to Rogers’s 11- to 15-day
forecast.  “It appears that it will weaken rapidly as it races
eastward,” Rogers said in a note to clients.  The normal average temperature in  New York  on Feb. 22 is 37
degrees, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
Maryland. It’s 33 in  Boston ; 38 in Philadelphia; 49 in Atlanta;
30 in Chicago; 52 in Dallas; 44 in Seattle; and 57 in Burbank,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  