-- Wells Fargo Breaks From Pack in Swaps
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-02-17T05:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/wells-fargo-breaks-away-from-bank-pack-in-default-swaps-corporate-finance.html
Wells Fargo & Co. ’s perceived
creditworthiness is rising relative to peers at the fastest rate
in almost three months as investors reward the bank for limited
risk from mortgage litigation and the European debt crisis.  Credit-default swaps tied to the bonds of the San
Francisco-based lender have held steady in February as contracts
on  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other banks climb, according to data
provider CMA. The difference, 112 basis points, has more than
doubled since August.  Concern is growing that Europe’s credit crisis, costs tied
to faulty mortgages and pending regulation of proprietary
trading will damage bank balance sheets. Wells Fargo has had
fewer costs in the mortgage crisis than JPMorgan on an absolute
basis and as a percentage of assets, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Wells Fargo looks like a much more stable business,
almost like an industrial company,” George Strickland, who
helps oversee about $12 billion in fixed-income assets at  Santa
Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management Inc. said
in a telephone interview. “They’re much more of a commercial
bank. They didn’t get caught up in the mortgage fiasco as much
as the other banks and they also aren’t nearly as involved in
the capital markets as the others.”  Ancel Martinez, a Wells Fargo spokesman, declined to
comment.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman in  New York ,
didn’t immediately respond to a voice message seeking comment.  Swaps Gap  While credit-default swaps on Wells Fargo, which investors
use to hedge against losses on the company’s debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, have climbed to 110 basis points
since this year’s low of 95.5 basis points, contracts tied to
its peers have risen faster, according to CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The gap between Wells Fargo swaps and the average of those
linked to the six biggest U.S. banks, including Bank of America
Corp., JPMorgan, Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , widened to 112 basis points yesterday, compared
with 42 basis points at the beginning of August and 23 basis
points this time last year.  That difference, which grew to as much as 180.8 basis
points in October as  Greece ’s debt woes roiled markets, grew
22.3 basis points for the two weeks ended Feb. 15, the fastest
since Nov. 25, the data show. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  ‘Domestic-Focused’  Bond investors are accepting the lowest  interest rates  from
Wells Fargo, among the six biggest U.S. banks. Its debt yields
to 2.85 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
JPMorgan debt yielded 3.53 percent and Goldman Sachs 4.73
percent as yesterday, the data show.  “The view that they are very domestic-focused is helping,
so the improving U.S. economy benefits them and they have less
exposure to the rest of the world,” said Peter Tchir, founder
of TF Market Advisors in New York. “Markets are getting
concerned about bank trading desk ability to generate revenue as
Dodd-Frank is on the horizon,” which doesn’t impact Wells Fargo
in the way it does Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, or
Bank of America.  Little Sovereign Risk  Wells Fargo had $3.2 billion of exposure to  Europe , of
which “very little” is sovereign risk, Chief Financial Officer
Timothy J. Sloan said in a July 19 teleconference to discuss
earnings with analysts and investors. The six biggest U.S. banks
had $50 billion in risk tied to five troubled nations of Europe
on Sept. 30, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Against JPMorgan, the Wells Fargo swap contracts have
diverged by the most since November 2008 this week, reaching
19.7 basis points on Feb. 13, CMA data show. Credit swaps, which
typically decline as investor confidence improves, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt.  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it was reviewing
17 banks and securities firms with global capital markets
operations for downgrades, including Morgan Stanley,  Goldman
Sachs (GS) , JPMorgan, Citigroup, and Bank of America. Wells Fargo is
not under review. The ratings company cited “more fragile
funding conditions, wider credit spreads, increased regulatory
burdens and more difficult operating conditions.”  Volcker Rule  Banks may suffer as financial reform crimps profits and
funding costs become increasingly sensitive to investor
confidence, Moody’s said. U.S. regulators are planning to
implement a ban on proprietary trading in five months called the
Volcker rule, part of the Dodd-Frank financial regulation
overhaul.  The potential downgrades may raise borrowing costs and
force banks to increase collateral, and bank funding costs have
already climbed worldwide. Moody’s downgraded Bank of America
and Wells Fargo in September, when it said the possibility of
emergency government support had decreased.  With European financial leaders struggling to bail out
Greece, the mortgage overhang unresolved and  capital markets 
volatile, “there is still a healthy degree of skepticism across
the group,”  Andrew Marquardt , an analyst at New York-based
Evercore Partners Inc., said in a telephone interview. “Of the
big banks, Wells is the one that gives investors the greatest
amount of comfort in this very uncertain time.”  Costs from faulty mortgages and shoddy foreclosures have
topped $72 billion at the biggest U.S. banks through the end of
last  year. JPMorgan accounts for about $18.5 billion, or 0.8
percent of its  assets  at the end of last year, while Wells Fargo
is about $6 billion, or 0.5 percent, Bloomberg data show.  “Wells Fargo has managed through the housing situation very
well, they have less global capital markets exposure, and
therefore European risks and concerns, than JPMorgan,” said
 David Brown , a  money manager  who helps oversee $88 billion of
fixed-income assets at Neuberger Berman LLC in  Chicago .
“JPMorgan has more capital markets exposure. Some of that’s out
of their control, and they’re just being a little bit subject to
the volatility there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  