-- Westinghouse Nuclear-Fuel Error Spurs U.S. Inquiry at 11 Plants
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-17T16:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/westinghouse-nuclear-fuel-error-spurs-u-s-inquiry-at-11-plants.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission said it’s concerned that 11 reactors could become too
hot in accident situations because some older nuclear fuel from
Westinghouse Electric Co. may not adequately conduct heat.  The commission today asked companies including  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK) ,  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ,  Dominion Resources (D)  Inc.,  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) 
and  American Electric Power (AEP)  Co. to analyze their fuel’s
performance under conditions that could halt the normal cooling
of reactors at the plants.  The NRC needs more information from the plants “to
maintain that they can continue to operate safely,” Eric Leeds,
director of the agency’s Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation,
said in a statement.  Computer models developed for fuel by Westinghouse, a unit
of Tokyo-based  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , may have incorrectly estimated its
ability to dissipate heat, according to the NRC’s statement. The
regulator sets a heat limit of 2,200 degrees Fahrenheit for fuel
during accident situations to prevent fuel rods from being
damaged, Scott Burnell, an agency spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  “The NRC alerted the industry to this problem in 2009, and
Westinghouse needs to do more to account for” heat loss in its
computer modeling for the fuel, Leeds said.  The NRC in December informed reactor-owners that an error
in the formula could allow the fuel temperatures to exceed the
2,200-degree limit, according to the agency’s statement.  The agency is seeking analysis of fuel heat loss from Duke
Energy’s Catawba and McGuire plants, both near Charlotte,  North
Carolina ; Exelon’s Braidwood and Byron plants in Illinois;
FirstEnergy’s Beaver Valley plant north of Pittsburgh;
Dominion’s Kewaunee reactor near Green Bay, Wisconsin; and
American Electric’s Donald C. Cook plant in southwestern
Michigan. Some of the facilities have more than one reactor.  Westinghouse didn’t have an immediate comment on the NRC’s
statement, Scott Shaw, a company spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  The NRC has asked the plants to provide information by
March 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  