-- White House Agreement on Solyndra Testimony Averts Subpoenas
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-17T00:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/white-house-deal-on-solyndra-testimony-averts-subpoenas.html
The White House agreed to let four
officials speak with congressional investigators about Solyndra
LLC’s $535 million U.S. loan guarantee, averting a Republican
attempt to compel their testimony by subpoena.  The House Energy and Commerce Committee today said
President Barack Obama’s administration has “agreed to
cooperate” with its investigation of the Fremont, California-
based solar-panel maker that filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
September, about two years after receiving U.S. backing. The
committee’s investigations panel postponed a meeting tomorrow to
authorize the subpoenas.  The committee is seeking information from officials who
worked on the Solyndra loan guarantee including Office of
Management and Budget employees Kevin Carroll, Kelly Colyar and
Fouad Saad, and  Heather Zichal , deputy assistant to Obama on
energy and climate-change matters.  “Speaking to these key players is critical to learning the
lessons of Solyndra as we work to ensure taxpayers are never
again paying the price for the administration’s risky bets,”
Representatives  Fred Upton  of Michigan, the committee’s
chairman, and  Cliff Stearns  of  Florida , who leads the
investigations panel, said in a joint statement.  Meetings Scheduled  The OMB officials have already scheduled sessions with the
committee, the panel said in a statement on its website. In
addition, “the White House has pledged to make the relevant
personnel available,” it said.  Republicans had also threatened to subpoena Aditya Kumar,
former deputy assistant to Vice President  Joe Biden , who
recently left the federal government. The committee is “still
looking to speak to him,” the panel said on its website. The
committee has also given the White House until Feb. 21 to comply
with a November subpoena for all Solyndra-related documents.  Republicans have questioned whether Obama campaign
fundraiser  George Kaiser , whose family foundation was Solyndra’s
biggest investor, pressed for the guarantee. Kaiser has said he
didn’t lobby for the loan backing.  Congress has been investigating Solyndra for a year, and
“they’ve turned up no wrongdoing,”  Eric Schultz , a White House
spokesman, said in an e-mail. The Obama administration has
released 187,000 pages of documents, participated in nine
congressional committee staff briefings and five committee
hearings, and Solyndra investors have provided 72,000 pages of
documents, according to Schultz.  “No evidence has emerged” to support Republican claims
that the company received its loan guarantee due to political
favoritism, and “all materials disclosed show this was a merit-
based decision,” Schultz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  