-- Why Mobile Shoppers Want Real-World Stores: Richard E. Wilson
-- B y   R i c h a r d   E .   W i l s o n
-- 2012-02-17T00:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/why-mobile-shoppers-want-real-world-stores-richard-e-wilson.html
Mobile shopping is one of the most
exciting new developments for retail in years, and “apps” that
allow brick-and-mortar-store shoppers to check competing online
prices have surged in popularity.  While actual mobile-shopping purchase transactions
accounted for only 2 percent of e-commerce sales in 2011, the
 Kellogg Shopper Index  -- a fall survey of 1,400 consumers --
found that more than half of in-store shoppers report having
occasionally used their Internet-enabled mobile devices as a
price-comparison tool while in stores.  That number is certain to grow. Yet the spread of mobile
price shopping may end up doing more harm than good.  For one thing, mobile shopping makes it far easier for
parasitic retailers to “free ride” on full-service, brick-and-
mortar stores. It works like this: A potential customer goes to
Best Buy to look for stereo headphones, tries on various models,
and pumps a salesperson for details. Having settled on a
product, the would-be customer checks prices online using a
smart mobile device. The headphones are available for 40 percent
less at an online retailer, which can profitably offer such a
steep discount because it makes virtually no investment in real
estate, demonstration inventory, expert salespeople, or
merchandising promotions.  Product Innovations  Best Buy (BBY)  isn’t the only one to lose out -- the maker of the
headphones does, too. High-touch retailers such as Best Buy are
the proving ground for product innovations that many consumers
crave. Ten years ago, how many people would have plunked down
$4,000 for an early high-definition television, solely on the
basis of its description on an Internet site? Most consumers
want a direct experience of the product that can be obtained
only in a store.  Unchecked free riding deprives stores of the revenue and
profit margins their economic models require. To remain alive,
most stores respond by cutting prices, which means that they
then have to eliminate services -- and perhaps even go out of
business -- and there will be nowhere for consumers to get a
direct experience of products.  That would be calamitous for manufacturers and retailers of
all stripes. The Kellogg Shopper Index finds that, for all their
reliance on advanced technologies, mobile shoppers are more
likely to prefer browsing in their local stores to online
education. It found, for example, that as the holiday season
approached in late 2011, mobile shoppers still expected to spend
a considerable share of their transaction dollars in physical
stores. In a recent study by  Leo Burnett Group , 60 percent of
respondents said they were unwilling to sacrifice the quality of
their total shopping experience -- before, during and after the
sale -- for a lower price.  For these reasons, brick-and-mortar stores shouldn’t be
written off prematurely, especially by branded manufacturers. To
fight back, here is what they should do:  -- Grant high-touch retailers “favored nation” status as
partners who support their end-customer strategies.  Manufacturers need to develop an optimal channels system
that accords retailers appropriate benefits and protections, and
makes separate concessions to other channels. This is the tactic
adopted by the premium outdoor- and garden-equipment maker Stihl
Inc. Even after turning its back on retail channels that drive
considerable unit volume, the company achieved greater market
share and profit growth than its competitors during the recent
economic recession. This was possible partly by following a
retail distribution strategy that favors loyal, high-touch,
brand-reinforcing specialty channels over national discounters
with inadequate service levels.  -- Make sure that customers gravitate toward a retail
channel experience that’s right for them and sustainable in the
marketplace.  That requires a four-step process: Understanding what
customer segments need; designing each retail channel to give
its target segment the service outputs and shopping experiences
customers desire; and ensuring that these service outputs aren’t
interchangeable between retail models. Finally, branded
manufacturers need to make sure that each retail partner gets
the basics of its offering right: for brick-and-mortar stores,
that means keeping adequate inventory, making returns easy,
training and compensating sales people to help shoppers
effectively, and providing after-sales repairs and support.  -- Structure the right economic incentives for different
types of retailers. It is far less costly for an online
operation to provide access to a vast assortment of products,
buyer recommendations, and touch-screen transactions than it is
for a brick-and-mortar retailer to pay for real estate; store
personnel and training; demonstration displays; local inventory;
and repair services.  There is no reason to provide the same shopping experience
to all customers. In its landmark  Leegin Creative Leather
Products Inc. v. PSKS Inc.  ruling, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed
that branded-product manufacturers could set minimum prices
across channels, so long as they were needed to support services
that customers desired and that maximized their number of
choices. Equal treatment means low-price channels will
eventually outcompete higher-cost channels, even if those out
outlets are crucial to a brand’s strategy.  -- Integrate mobile advertising. The lag between when an
advertisement is seen or heard and when a consumer might
actually be in a store or thinking about a purchase is
shrinking. Mobile lets the brand advertiser hit consumers closer
to their actual shopping behavior. That means messages have to
be tailored by channel.  -- Make disciplined channel-policy choices. Branded-product
manufacturers have at least four options to bring more
discipline to their retail channel system’s marketing programs
and policies:  resale price maintenance , or RPM; exclusive
retailer relationships; exiting unattractive channels; or
creating distinct product lines for specific channels. Any of
these alternatives can create a more level retail playing field
and prevent free-riding discounters from destroying markets.  Still, this is easier said than done. RPM initiatives must
be legally and competitively defensible. Exclusives and the
cutting off of some channels necessarily may raise fears of
significant loss of  market access . Lower-quality product lines
for lower-value channels create risks for brand perception and
equity.  But allowing cross-channel conflicts isn’t a viable long-
term option for branded manufacturers. Lax channel discipline
has engendered rampant free riding and threatens the very
outlets that do the most to uphold manufacturing brands. Over
time, allowing retailers to maul each other hurts the
manufacturer. Sooner or later, brand deterioration will cancel
out short-term revenue gains.  Mobile price shopping is simply an instrument. A smart
device can accelerate cross-channel destruction and brand
deterioration, to the detriment of consumers. Or it can be a
force for good, encouraging consumers to make decisions based
not just on price, but on very real differences in benefits,
such as the experiential value of side-by-side physical
comparisons; live product demonstrations; expert advice and
training; and after-sales repair and maintenance.  To ensure that optimal, brand-reinforcing retail channels
are in place, product manufacturers will have to do more to help
the retailers that sell their products. That means building
genuine value-delivery systems for targeted consumers, and
collaborating with downstream retail partners to define and
execute effective routes to market for each product category.
Most of all, it requires manufacturers to have the discipline to
tell mobile free riders, not quite “No, you can’t have any,”
but “Yes, but on very different terms.”  (Richard E. Wilson is clinical associate professor of
marketing and associate director of the Center for Global
Marketing Practice at the  Kellogg School  of Management,
 Northwestern University . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 r-wilson3@kellogg.northwestern.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  