-- Wine Turns Mortgage Title Mogul Into Entrepreneur of Viticulture
-- B y   E d w a r d   R o b i n s o n   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-02-17T10:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/wine-turns-mortgage-title-mogul-into-entrepreneur-of-viticulture.html
On a crisp winter’s day in 2010,
Bill Foley was exploring a troubled winery for sale in Sonoma
County,  California , when he was taken aback by the sight of an
enclosed horse-riding ring the size of an airplane hangar.  Foley, who made a fortune selling mortgage title insurance
during the  housing boom , also recalls seeing a California
mission-style chapel and a regulation-sized football field and
baseball diamond at the Chalk Hill Estate. These extravagant
structures had nothing to do with making wine and helped saddle
an estate valued at more than $100 million with excessive debt,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its March issue.  “My wife said, ‘There’s no way you can buy this,’” Foley
recalls with a mischievous grin.  Foley, 66, did buy Chalk Hill in June 2010 for an
undisclosed price well below its peak valuation. Now, it’s the
flagship of his burgeoning viticultural business, which produces
more than 1 million cases of wine a year and stretches from
California to  Washington  state to  New Zealand .  Foley is hunting for more distressed wineries along Napa
Valley’s fabled Route 29 and in the pinot noir-laden vineyards
of  Oregon ’s Willamette Valley.  “I’m not even close to being big enough,” says Foley in a
mellow voice that bears the twang of his childhood home in the
Texas Panhandle.  The wealthy have long come to California’s wine country to
indulge in the pleasures of the grape. While many are content to
lord over one luxury estate, Foley is gambling he can become a
commercial force in a  wine industry  that is struggling with
stagnant sales.  Empire-Builder  After jumping 37 percent from 2002 to 2007, sales of
California-made wine have been flat at about $18 billion for
four straight years as consumers drink less expensive brands in
economic hard times, according to the Wine Institute, a San
Francisco-based trade group.  Debt-laden producers have sold their operations at deep
discounts. In April, Southbank, Australia-based  Foster’s Group
Ltd. (FGL)  spun off its wine division at a $2.5 billion valuation
after spending $7 billion building it into a global player with
Napa-based Beringer Vineyards and other brands.  In exploiting the shake-up, Foley has emerged as the most
ambitious individual empire builder in the wine trade since the
late Jess Jackson developed chardonnay powerhouse Kendall-Jackson
Estate Wine Ltd. in the early 1980s, says Mario Zepponi, a
principal at Zepponi & Co., a  Santa Rosa , California-based
mergers and acquisitions advisory firm.  Making Deals  Foley’s fortune tops $153 million, according to  data
compiled  by Bloomberg. Since 2007, he has spent more than $200
million of his own money and credit on 12 wineries with more
than 20 labels.  “Nobody really knew who this guy was, and then all of a
sudden, he was making deals,” Zepponi says. “He’s been one or
two steps ahead of everyone else.”  Foley’s properties range from Sebastiani Vineyards &
Winery, a Sonoma-based producer of $25 reds and whites, to
Merus, a Napa cult winery that sells its silky  cabernet
sauvignon  for $135 a bottle. His holding company, Foley Family
Wines, recorded $15 million in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization on about $100 million of sales in
2011.  More buyers are now joining the hunt for undervalued
wineries. In March 2011, Chilean producer  Vina Concha & Toro SA 
paid $238 million, double Foley’s bid, for Sonoma County-based
Fetzer Vineyards, which makes 2.2 million cases annually.  Fragmented Market  And French entrepreneur Jean-Charles Boisset has spent
almost $40 million in the past three years to build his own
California wine domain with the acquisitions of Raymond Vineyards
in Napa and Buena Vista Winery in Sonoma. In 2010 and 2011, two
dozen wineries changed hands in California in a record spate of
acquisitions, Zepponi says.  In storming the wine business, Foley says his private-
equity-style deal-making will tame an inefficient industry. From
1984 to 2007, he transformed a Phoenix storefront operation
called  Fidelity National Title Inc. (FNF)  into the No. 1 U.S. mortgage
title insurer by acquiring more than 50 firms and absorbing
their market share and customers.  Now, he wants to do the same in wine, a fragmented market
teeming with more than 7,600 producers in the U.S. alone. In
every  winery deal , Foley has shunned short-term debt in favor of
using 25- or 30-year loans and then capped his leverage at 30
percent of his invested capital.  Kicking Himself  He favors aggressive lowball bids. In 2010, he pursued a
prestigious New Zealand pinot noir producer called Te Kairanga
with a book value of $20 million. Foley got it for $8 million.  “I’m not doing anything I haven’t already done,” Foley says
with a shrug. “You buy companies, collapse the back office, keep
the front office and enhance the marketing and sales programs.”  Foley is betting that a combination of greater wine volume
and improved branding will elevate his labels in a market
flooded with them. After every acquisition, Foley pumps his new
wines into his existing distribution channels to stores and
restaurants.  He says he must add cases to get more clout with
distributors, who choose which wines to showcase for retailers
and which to shunt off to the back of the warehouse. So he’s
hunting for farms in California’s Central Valley to produce more
wine for his many labels and for brands already popular with
consumers.  Foley is still kicking himself for letting a Central
California producer called Four Vines Winery get snapped up by
another suitor in 2010 for an undisclosed bid. Priced below $20
a bottle, the winery’s Naked Chardonnay and zesty zinfandels are
a smash with budget-conscious buyers, and the winery produces
about 100,000 cases annually.  Blackberry Finish  “That’s the kind of thing I’m looking for, something that’s
got some pull to it and distributor relationships,” Foley says.
“I’ve got to find one like that.”  Foley became smitten with the vineyard life in the mid-
1990s after moving to  Santa Barbara  and discovering the nearby
Santa Ynez Valley, a savannah of oaks and ranchland nestled
between coastal hills that’s ideal for growing the finicky pinot
noir grape. In 1996, Foley bought a 30-acre (12-hectare) winery
there and dubbed it Lincourt after his daughters, Lindsay and
Courtney.  After every harvest, Foley visits with the vintners on many
of his properties as they blend different batches of juice into
a wine ready for aging. Camille Benitah, the Bordeaux-born
winemaker at Merus, says Foley relishes being in the barrel room
and exploring how to balance earthiness, acidity and fruit into
an elegant cabernet sauvignon.  A Grand Improvisation  “He is very humble about it,” says Benitah, sampling a 2007
Merus with a nose of pipe tobacco and a long blackberry finish.
“He lets us work, and he sees we are creating something special,
something we won’t compromise, and he loves to see it happen.”  As a venture that blends agriculture and selling  luxury
goods , making wine has broken the hearts and bank accounts of
many would-be vintners. Foley’s moves appear to be a grand
improvisation rather than a carefully plotted campaign, says Vic Motto, chairman of  Global Wine Partners LLC , a  St. Helena ,
California-based investment bank.  Foley not only wants to be both a mass-market producer and
the proprietor of fine wine boutiques; he even muses about
opening a luxury hotel in the  Napa Valley . Motto says Foley’s
rapid accumulation of properties is unorthodox in a business
where vintners favor building a  wine group  organically over many
years.  ‘No Master Plan’  “We’ve never seen anyone using his own capital to buy
distressed assets and then try and put them together into a
working unit,” says Motto, a 30-year Napa veteran. “He will have
to do a lot of work to accomplish that.”  Seated at a round table in his Chalk Hill office and
tapping a stack of business cards from wine industry contacts
with his finger, Foley seems more amused than stressed by the
challenges before him. Dressed in blue jeans and wearing his
snowy hair long, he’s a cheerful man who pokes fun at himself.  When told that vintners in Napa wonder what his strategic
objective is, he guffaws. “They give me too much credit!” he
says with a high-pitched giggle. “There is no master plan.”  Underneath his avuncular exterior lies a steeliness borne
of years of deals in the mortgage industry, says Thomas Hagerty,
his friend and a managing director at Boston-based buyout firm
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP. He says Foley is skilled at finding
troubled companies, stripping out valuable assets and
integrating them into his own group.  Rare Skills  In 2010, Foley was eager to improve sales at Firestone
Vineyard, a Santa Ynez producer of $20 reds and whites he bought
three years earlier for $50 million. The problem was, its
tasting room was located in Paso Robles, a viticultural area an
hour’s drive north of Santa Ynez.  So Foley bought a Paso Robles-based producer called Eos
Estate Winery out of bankruptcy and converted the Firestone
tasting room into an Eos showcase, appealing to visitors who
prefer locally produced wines. Sales at the tasting room quickly
doubled, he says.  “Bill has a deep understanding of financial risk and
operational risk, and it’s rare to see those two skills in one
guy,” Hagerty says. “He does love wine, but he’s not a hobbyist.
He’s in this to build a first-class business.”  Foley graduated from the U.S. Military Academy in  West
Point ,  New York , in 1967 with an engineering degree and then
switched from the Army to the  Air Force , serving four years and
earning the rank of captain. He went on to receive a Master of
Business Administration at Seattle University and a law degree
from the  University of Washington .  Market Leader  After moving to Phoenix and working as a real-estate
lawyer, he took control of Fidelity National Title in 1984
through a leveraged buyout. The company, which protects mortgage
lenders from losses in the event a home seller lacks clear title
to a property, had $6 million in annual sales and was then the
No. 92 title insurer in the U.S.  By March 2000, Foley had renamed the company Fidelity
National Financial Inc. and had made it the No. 1 mortgage title
insurer after acquiring archrival Chicago Title Corp. for $1.1
billion.  The following year, Foley launched a subsidiary called
 Fidelity National Information Services Inc. (FIS)  that sold data-
management software to mortgage companies. He catapulted the
venture into a market leader in 2003 with the $1 billion
purchase of the financial services arm of Alltel Corp., which
serviced almost half of the home loans in the U.S.  Housing Crash  In 2006, he spun it off in an offering that created $7.6
billion in market capitalization. The total value of Foley’s
stakes in both his companies soared to $454 million in 2007.  As  subprime mortgages  started defaulting en masse, Foley
stepped down as chief executive officer of Fidelity National
Financial in May 2007. He gave up day-to-day  management  just as
the firm’s fortunes were undermined by the housing crash: Net
income at the company slid to $130 million in 2007 from a peak
of $964 million in 2005, and in 2008  the company  lost $179
million. Foley, who remains chairman, says that after 23 years
in title insurance, he wanted to spend more time playing golf
and tending to his vineyards.  Rather than ease into semiretirement, Foley had to overcome
distribution problems at his fledgling wine business. Two years
after setting up Lincourt in 1996, Foley bought a 460-acre
Thoroughbred ranch nearby and planted it with pinot noir and
chardonnay grapes. He dubbed it Foley Estates. He says both
wineries, in which he’d invested $18 million, were headed for
disaster as unsold inventory piled up.  Elegant and Complex  “I wanted to learn how you make wine, and I’d sunk all this
money into it,” Foley says. “And I’m like, ‘God, I have to do
something. I’ve got 20,000 cases of wine from last year, and
this year I’m going to have another 25,000, and I’m selling
2,000?’ It was hilarious.”  Determined to make inroads with distributors, Foley bought
Firestone Vineyard, which produced 140,000 cases a year in Santa
Ynez Valley. The next year, he acquired Sebastiani, a 109-year-
old winery that epitomizes California’s Italian winemaking roots
and cranks out 250,000 cases a year.  In early 2010, Foley cast his eye on Chalk Hill. Cobbled
together from 13 parcels over 38 years by  San Francisco 
plaintiff lawyer Fred Furth, it emerged as a premier label that
delivered elegant and complex wines for about $50 and up.  By the time Foley arrived, its high-alcohol reds and whites
had lost suppleness and cachet and were no longer selling like
those of Frog’s Leap, Cakebread Cellars and other peers, says
Kerrin Laz, wine director at  Dean & DeLuca Inc. , a chain of
gourmet grocery emporiums based in New York.  Grey Fungus  “All those wines still maintained relevance,” she says.
“Chalk Hill did not.”  During harvest in early fall, Foley saw how difficult his
new career could be when unseasonal rains drenched Sonoma just
as the grapes were reaching peak ripeness. The moisture caused a
countywide outbreak of botrytis, a gray fungus that spoils
grapes, and Chalk Hill lost about half of its chardonnay crop.
The development raises concerns about the 2011 vintage’s volume.  “If you run out of product and lose shelf space, somebody
else will get that slot,” says Mark Lingenfelder, Chalk Hill’s
vineyard manager.  Foley takes the news in stride as he visits with guests of
the estate on an October afternoon. He says the Chalk Hill brand
possesses prestige to build on, and thanks to his deals, he’s
finally getting his labels onto the shelves of mass-market
retailers such as BevMo Inc., a 114-store chain in California
and  Arizona .  Apples and Nectarines  A glass of Chalk Hill’s 2009 chardonnay is placed in front
of Foley. The scent of apples and nectarines wafts from the
wine. One of his guests compliments the estate’s Olympic-sized
equestrian ring and asks whether Foley rides horses. He shakes
his head and says he’s a cyclist.  “I was thinking of going this afternoon,” Foley says,
swirling his wine. “But now I’m going to drink this chardonnay.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Robinson in San Francisco at 
 edrobinson@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Colby in New York at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  