-- Witherspoon’s “This Means War” Tanks on All Fronts: Greg Evans
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/witherspoon-s-this-means-war-tanks-on-all-fronts-greg-evans.html
“This Means War” is a brainless
mash-up of derivative, disposable action scenes and a third-rate
episode of “Sex and the City.”  With clumsy direction from McG (“Charlie’s Angels”) and a
slapdash screenplay by Timothy Dowling and Simon Kinberg, “This
Means War” mixes romantic comedy with action as awkwardly as it
pits two best-buddy CIA hunks ( Chris Pine  and  Tom Hardy ) against
one another for the affections of a lonely, supposedly charming
consumer advocate ( Reese Witherspoon ).  The film begins with a phony-looking, shoot-out atop a Hong
Kong skyscraper, setting up a mostly neglected subplot in which
the two agents battle some ill-defined international arms cartel
(headed by the cartoonishly grim Til Schweiger).  Back in  Los Angeles , the smooth-talking agent FDR Foster
(Pine) and his beefy, Brit-accented partner Tuck (Hardy) bemoan
their pitiful love lives until each meets the woman of his
dreams. Or the woman of their dreams: They’ve fallen for the
same gal -- Witherspoon’s Lauren -- who doesn’t know her two
suitors are friends or that they work for the CIA.  Encouraged by her caustic best pal (Chelsea Handler,
grating and flat), Lauren dates both men until she can decide
which one she loves. The guys, meanwhile, use every CIA gadget
and resource to spy on Lauren and one another. The few action
scenes are implausible even by the low bar of this kind of genre
hyphenate.  “This Means War” tries and fails to find laughs in
Lauren’s well-intentioned two-timing and the guys’ good-hearted
duplicity. Everything gets smothered in cuteness and maudlin
sentiment --not to mention a near-fetishistic obsession with the
cast members’ unnaturally blue eyes.  “This Means War,” from 20th Century Fox, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: *  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 