-- World’s Biggest Platinum Mine Under Police Control After Riots
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-02-17T12:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/world-s-biggest-platinum-mine-under-police-control-after-riots.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  said
police are monitoring the world’s biggest platinum mine near
Rustenburg,  South Africa  after violent demonstrations yesterday.  A “big police presence” has been sent to the mine, also
known as Impala, after the unrest yesterday, he said. Today
about 500 miners and unemployed people protested outside the
mine, Sydwell Dokolwana, the  National Union of Mineworkers ’
regional secretary in Rustenburg, said. Demonstrators yesterday
killed a miner who was on his way to work, he said in a phone
interview.  “The situation was very, very tense in the morning,”
Dokolwana said. “Because of the presence of police for now
there are no road blockages. People are just singing and
carrying sticks and pangas,” Dokolwana said, referring to
heavy, machete-like knives usually used to clear vegetation.  Impala fired 17,200 workers at the mine, which accounts for
about 12 percent of global production of platinum, two weeks ago
after an illegal strike began. By Feb. 14 the disruption had
delayed output of 60,000 ounces of the metal worth about 1.2
billion rand ($154 million), Impala’s Chief Executive Officer,
 David Brown , said yesterday.  About 500 policemen have been deployed to the operation,
the South African Press Association reported, citing Brigadier
Thulani Ngubane, a police officer.  Impala  shares  rose 3.26 rand, or 2 percent, to 161.40 rand
as of 2:52 p.m. in Johannesburg after declining 4 percent
yesterday. The price of platinum rose 0.8 percent to $1,636.75
an ounce as of 12:53 p.m. in  London .  Dispute Meeting  The union will meet Impala to try and resolve the situation
at 4:30 p.m. local time in Johannesburg today, Dokolwana said.
The protests were sparked by rivalry between the National Union
of Mineworkers, recognized by Impala as the main labor group at
the operation, and the Association of Mineworkers & Construction
Union, which is trying to gain members, Brown said.  The mine was “basically quiet” overnight and this
morning, the company said in an e-mailed response to questions
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  