-- World Bank Will Choose Successor to Zoellick by Meetings Starting April
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-02-17T21:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/world-bank-will-choose-successor-to-zoellick-by-meetings-starting-april-20.html
The World Bank board of directors
said it expects to pick a successor to President  Robert Zoellick 
by the time of its April 20-22 meetings.  The Washington-based lender will accept nominations until
March 23 and look for candidates with skills including “a
proven track record of leadership” and “experience of managing
large organizations with international exposure, and a
familiarity with the public sector,” the institution said in an
e-mailed statement.  While the bank promised a “merit-based and transparent”
selection process, the president’s position has always been held
by a U.S. citizen. The Obama administration said it will have a
candidate “in the coming weeks.’  Zoellick, 58, said earlier this week he would step down
when his five-year mandate ends June 30. Officials from Brazil
and  China  pushed for a selection procedure that could lead to a
president who is not a U.S. citizen.  The board will decide on a shortlist of up to three
candidates, whom it will interview, the  World Bank  said in its
statement today.  Other criteria include “the ability to articulate a clear
vision of the World Bank Group’s development mission” and
“effective and diplomatic communication skills, impartiality
and objectivity in the performance of the responsibilities of
the position” as well as “a firm commitment to and
appreciation for multilateral cooperation.”  Emerging Markets  The campaign for the helm of an institution that made $57
billion in loans in the last fiscal year will test the capacity
of  emerging markets  to close ranks behind a candidate eight
months after they failed to line up behind an International
Monetary Fund nominee. The U.S. grip on the job was part of an
informal agreement that also has a European head the IMF.  Last year  Christine Lagarde , then  France ’s finance
minister, got picked to head the IMF over Mexican Central Bank
Governor Agustin Carstens. The U.S. backed Lagarde at the end of
the campaign.  -- Editors: Kevin Costelloe, James Tyson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 