-- Hyundai, Kia Sued by Toyota Foe in Fight Over Hybrids
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-02-17T21:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/hyundai-kia-sued-by-toyota-foe-in-patent-fight-over-hybrids.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270)  were named in a patent-infringement lawsuit filed by a
company that had been embroiled in a years-long fight with
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  over hybrid-engine technology.  Closely held Paice LLC and Baltimore’s  Abell Foundation , a
non-profit that’s invested in Paice, filed the suit yesterday in
federal court in Baltimore, accusing the Seoul-based automakers
of infringing three patents.  The complaint targets Hyundai’s Sonata Hybrid and the Kia
Optima Hybrid. Hyundai and Kia, which are affiliated and whose
hybrid vehicles use the same powertrain technology, were aware
of the patent litigation with Toyota. The litigation ended with
a 2010 settlement reached after eight years of legal fighting,
Paice said.  “Since as early as 2004, Paice has contacted Hyundai on
numerous occasions and offered to discuss its patented hybrid
technology,” Paice said in the complaint. The company is
seeking cash compensation and an order that prevents further use
of the technology without permission.  “Hyundai Motor America is still examining the issues
raised in the lawsuit, which we received a short time ago, and
is not able to comment on the specifics of the suit at this
time,” Chris Hosford, a spokesman for Hyundai said. Officials
with Kia couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Paice was founded by Alex Severinsky, a Soviet emigrant who
began his career developing antitank-warfare instrumentation. In
the 1990s, he developed a high-voltage method to power gas-
electric vehicles that he contends is the basis for modern
hybrid technology.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , maker of the Fusion hybrid car, also agreed
to license Paice’s technology to resolve lawsuits.  The case is Paice LLC v. Hyundai Motor Co., 12cv499, U.S.
District Court for the District of Maryland (Baltimore).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  