-- Zynga Said to Plan Game Promotions to Lessen Facebook Reliance for Sales
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-17/zynga-said-to-plan-game-promotions-to-lessen-facebook-reliance-for-sales.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the online-game company
that sold shares to the public in December, plans to unveil
services designed to promote other developers and lessen its
dependence on  Facebook Inc . (FB), two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Through a new publishing program, due to begin in March,
other game developers will be able to advertise their wares in
 Zynga (ZNGA)  titles and on a separate Web portal, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the plan isn’t public. Zynga
will keep a portion of the sales generated from the games,
according to the people.  Zynga, the biggest developer of games played on  Facebook ,
is seeking new sources of revenue after raising $1 billion in
its initial public offering. By selling services to other
developers, it may reduce its reliance on the social network,
which accounts for more than 90 percent of sales and takes a 30
percent cut of virtual goods sold in Zynga games.  “Any progress Zynga can make in revenue diversification is
a positive,” said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W.
Baird & Co. in San Francisco, who downgraded shares of Zynga to
“neutral” earlier this week.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for Zynga, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation.  Zynga shares  rose 2.2 percent to $12.06 yesterday. The
stock has climbed 28 percent this year.  Expensive Development  Promoting apps made by other developers is likely to carry
fewer risks than Zynga’s main business of developing games
itself. The company’s profitability has been crimped by the cost
of creating new blockbuster titles.  The plan for a new publishing platform in March is
contingent on talks with partners, as well as internal
development, according to the people familiar with the effort.
The release could come later, they said.  By becoming a publisher, Zynga emulates traditional console
game companies such as  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , which distribute
and promote games made by independent design studios in exchange
for a cut of sales.  Over time, Zynga’s publishing business could become a
significant driver of sales, depending on how much of the market
it controls, said  Robert W. Baird ’s Sebastian.  “This could present a $500 million incremental opportunity
in just a few years,” he said.  Facebook’s Role  Joining Zynga’s network will not exempt developers from
giving  Facebook (FB)  a commission, a person with knowledge of the
revenue agreement said. Because Facebook Credits are used by all
developers selling virtual goods on the social network and games
promoted by Zynga, participating developers will still pay
Facebook a cut of sales, the person said.  Zynga, with more than 246 million users, operates six of
the seven most popular games played on Facebook, according to
research firm AppData.  “Hidden Chronicles,” released last month, has become
Zynga’s third most popular game, with 30.7 million monthly
users, according to  AppData . It ranks behind two more
established titles, “CityVille” and “Texas HoldEm Poker.”  During an event at the company’s  San Francisco  headquarters
in October, Zynga debuted a new service, called Project Z,
geared toward curbing its dependence on Facebook.  Project Z would be part of a larger corporate strategy,
dubbed Zynga Direct, that is aimed at building “a direct
relationship with consumers whether they are on the Web or
mobile,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  said at the event.  Earlier this week, Zynga’s shares had their biggest one-day
drop since their Dec. 16 debut after an earnings report showed
product-development costs are cutting into profitability.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 Asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  