-- Apple Talked With Twitter About Investment, NYT Says
-- B y   S y l v i a   W i e r
-- 2012-07-28T22:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/apple-has-talked-with-twitter-about-making-investment-nyt-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  talked in recent months
with Twitter Inc. about making an investment in the social media
site in the hundreds of millions of dollars, the New York Times
reported yesterday.  The Times, citing unidentified people briefed on the
situation, said there are no talks “at the moment” and there
is no guarantee an agreement will be reached.  Such an investment, the newspaper said, could value Twitter
at more than $10 billion. Spokesmen for both companies declined
to comment to the Times.  Apple’s discussions with Twitter were more than a year ago,
the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday, citing a person
familiar with the matter. There are no current formal investment
or acquisition talks between the companies, it said.  Twitter, while still smaller than online rivals Google and
Facebook, expects to generate at least $1 billion in sales in
2014, two people with knowledge of the matter have said.
Researchers at EMarketer Inc. have said that in 2014 Twitter
advertising sales, which account for almost all its revenue,
will rise to $540 million from $139.5 million last year. The
closely held company doesn’t release sales figures.  Twitter has stepped up a campaign to induce marketers to
devote more of their advertising budgets to its service, which
lets users post messages of no more than 140 characters to
followers. Twitter, which unveiled its first advertising
offering in 2010, has recently expanded mobile-advertising
services.  Social Media  Apple, for its part, has been eager to integrate social
media into its software with features such as Ping, which it
calls “a social network for music.”  The latest version of Apple’s operating system for Mac
desktops and notebooks, released earlier this week and called
Mountain Lion, adds direct support for Twitter, making it easier
for users to share their comments and content directly.  Apple’s profit and sales fell short of analysts’
projections for only the second time since 2003 as customers
held off on iPhone purchases while waiting for a new model to be
introduced later in the year.  Net income climbed 21 percent to $8.82 billion, or $9.32 a
share, in the period that ended June 30, Cupertino, California-
based Apple said in a statement July 24. Sales rose 23 percent
to $35 billion. Analysts had predicted profit of $10.37 a share
on revenue of $37.2 billion, the average of estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  While Apple outgrew its closest technology-industry peers,
the company’s sales climbed at the slowest pace since mid-2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sylvia Wier in  New York  at 
 swier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  