-- Argentina to Require State Approval for Private Oil Investment
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2012-07-28T01:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/argentina-to-require-state-approval-for-private-oil-investment.html
Argentina ’s government mandated the
creation of an oil planning commission that will set national
energy goals and have the power to review private companies’
investment plans.  Oil producers will be cataloged in a national registry
overseen by the new commission, according to a decree published
today in Argentina’s official  bulletin . Companies will have to
submit annual investment plans by Sept. 30 and the commission
will be able to reject proposals it deems aren’t consistent with
the national energy goals that the body sets.  The decree strengthens Argentina’s control over the oil
industry after the April nationalization of  YPF SA (YPFD) , Argentina’s
largest energy company, on the grounds that it failed to invest
enough to increase output. Argentina seized a 51 percent stake
from  Spain ’s Repsol SA after opposing the company’s payment of
dividends.  The new commission will be made up of officials from the
planning, energy and internal commerce ministries, the official
bulletin shows. It will seek to “increase and maximize
investments employed to explore, exploit, refine, transport and
sell hydrocarbons with the goal of guaranteeing self-sufficiency
and sustainability,” according to the document released by the
Argentine government.  The body will have 60 days to review the annual investment
plans submitted by energy companies and “verify their
consistency and adaptation” with the goals it establishes. It
can “request the submission of a new annual investment plan
that adjusts to the requirements of the national plan for
hydrocarbon investments,” the document shows.  The government is authorized to fine companies that don’t
comply with national regulations and cancel their concessions,
according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  