-- Maruti Profit Declines as Import Costs Rise, Rupee Falls
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-07-28T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/maruti-profit-declines-as-import-costs-rise-rupee-falls.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) ,  India ’s
biggest carmaker by volume, said first-quarter profit declined
23 percent as a weaker rupee pushed up import costs.  Net income  at  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) ’s Indian unit fell to 4.24
billion rupees ($77 million) in the three months ended June 30,
from 5.49 billion rupees a year earlier, the New Delhi-based
company said yesterday. That missed the 4.9 billion-rupee median
of 26  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The earnings underscore the challenges Chief Executive
Officer Shinzo Nakanishi faces after the automaker’s most
violent labor dispute this month led to a manager’s death and
prompted it to stop production at one of its factories. The
company, which makes about 40 percent of the cars sold in the
country, may risk losing its market share should the stoppage
continue for a month, said Umesh Karne, an analyst with BRICS
Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.  “Maruti can’t afford to keep the plant closed,” Karne
said in a telephone interview. “Customers may not be willing to
wait,” with rivals including Hyundai Motor Co. and  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT)  offering vehicles at competitive prices, he said.  A general manager was killed and dozens of executives
injured on July 18 at Maruti’s plant in Manesar, in northern
Haryana state. Chairman R.C. Bhargava on July 21 announced a
lockout and ruled out an early resumption of the factory.  Labor Dispute  The current stoppage is the carmaker’s fourth in the past
year at the factory. The dispute began after a worker beat up a
supervisor on the shop floor. The union then prevented the
management from taking disciplinary action, blocking managers
from leaving the factory after work, Maruti Suzuki has said.  Maruti rose 0.4 percent to 1,112.95 rupees in Mumbai on
July 27. The stock has declined 9.3 percent since the riot,
compared with the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) ’s 2 percent drop.  The automaker, 54 percent  owned  by Suzuki, sold 295,896
vehicles in the quarter, Maruti said. Sales of the DZire sedan
surged 87 percent, while that of Swift, Estilo and Ritz
hatchbacks rose a combined 31 percent. Sales of the SX4 sedan
declined 74 percent in the quarter, according to a company
statement on July 2. Exports rose 6 percent to 32,632 units.  Sales increased 27 percent to 105 billion rupees from 82.6
billion rupees a year earlier, Maruti said. The median of 40
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for revenue of
99.4 billion rupees.  Raw material costs increased 26 percent to 80.6 billion
rupees, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Costs Double  Maruti’s costs for importing components has more than
doubled in the past few years because of the weakening of the
rupee, Chief Financial Officer Ajay Seth said in an interview
earlier this month. Exports contribute 8 percent of total sales,
while it spends about 21 percent on importing components such as
electronics and diesel engine parts, he had said.  “The currency hit Maruti, both on imports as well as
royalty payments to Suzuki,” said Karne at BRICS Securities.
“With the current economic scenario, we will have to see where
the rupee goes.”  The rupee weakened about 20 percent against the dollar and
the yen in the 12 months ended June 30. In the quarter to June
30, the local currency slumped 12 percent against the yen and
8.6 percent versus the greenback.  “Adverse currency movements, notably the yen-rupee
 exchange rate , impacted profit negatively,” according to the
company’s statement.  Slowing Growth  India’s economic growth slowed to the weakest in almost a
decade in the quarter that ended in March and the rupee slumped
to a record low amid a paralysis in policy making that has hurt
efforts to spur investment as a global recovery falters.  Maruti’s sales in the nine-month period ended Dec. 31
declined 17 percent because a labor dispute at its Manesar
factory resulted in an output loss.  The recent lockout comes amid a slowdown in car sales in
India as high gasoline prices and  interest rates  deter buyers.
The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  on July 10 cut
its forecast for growth to a range of 9 percent to 11 percent
for the year ending March 31 from an estimate of 10 percent to
12 percent given in April.  Should the plant, which accounts for about 35 percent of
the company’s total output, stay shut for two months, it will
hurt Maruti’s revenue and profit, R. Murali Krishnan and Mitul Shah, analysts at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. in Mumbai, wrote in a
note on July 25.  “We see the current event at Maruti’s Manesar plant as a
structural impact on its business, as it is more related to
humanitarian and psychological aspects beyond the financial
implications,” wrote Krishnan and Shah, who rate the stock
underperform. “We don’t see light at the end of the tunnel, at
least for the time being.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  