-- Asian Stocks Fall Second Week This Month on China, Europe
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-07-28T00:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/asian-stocks-fall-second-week-this-month-on-china-europe.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index paring last week’s gains, amid concern  Greece 
may not meet bailout targets and after the  International
Monetary Fund  said  China’s economy  faces significant downside
risks.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , an operator of ports and retail
chains that gets 55 percent of its  revenue  in Europe, fell 3.8
percent in  Hong Kong . Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd.,
 China ’s second-biggest electronics retailer, plunged 23 percent
to an all-time low after forecasting a first-half loss. Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co., the assembler of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones
and iPads, sank 6.8 percent in Taipei after Apple posted
earnings that missed estimates.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.6 percent to 115.92
this week. The gauge has fallen more than 10 percent since this
year’s high on Feb. 29 amid concern the global economic slowdown
is deepening and after Greek leaders failed to agree on an 11.5
billion euro ($14 billion) package of budget cuts pledged to get
bailout funds, adding to signs Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.
Greece’s politicians will meet again on July 30.  “Signals coming out of Greece are not positive in terms of
implementing agreements, and so Europe is going to remain a key
negative for markets for quite some time to come,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment markets research at
Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which oversees
about $150 billion. “The outlook remains very difficult for
major economies and therefore for equity markets.”  Market Intervention  Stocks advanced yesterday after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers will do whatever is
needed to preserve the euro and were prepared to intervene in
bond markets as yields surged in Spain and Italy.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  declined 1.2 percent. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index retreated 1.9 percent. The Shanghai
Composite Index decreased 1.8 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index and South Korea’s Kospi Index both added 0.3 percent.  The losses in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index dragged the value
of shares on the regional gauge to 11.8 times  estimated earnings ,
compared with 13.5 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
11.0 times for the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the 1,007 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index,
about 35 percent have price-to-book ratios of less than one,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Those companies include
Hutchison Whampoa, Japan’s Toyota Motor Corp. and Australia’s
Qantas Airways Ltd. A value below one means a company can be
bought for less than the value of its assets.  ‘Investors Run’  “Investors continue to run away from Europe,” said Goya Nakao, a senior investment manager at Sompo Japan Nipponkoa
Asset Management Co., which oversees about 5 trillion yen ($64
billion. “Stocks and sectors that are highly dependent on
external demand just keep falling. Sentiment has deteriorated so
much that investors are ignoring cheap valuations and selling to
cut their losses.”  Companies that rely on Europe fell as investors awaited the
outcome of July 30 talks between Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and his coalition partners to determine the savings
needed to receive the funds pledged under two bailout packages
totaling 240 billion euros.  Hutchison Whampoa slid 3.8 percent to HK$68.60.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s biggest lender by market value, declined
4.1 percent to HK$64.15.  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker that gets 31 percent of its
revenue in Europe, sank 12 percent to 2,518 yen in  Tokyo . The
company on July 25 announced it was cutting its full-year profit
forecast because of the strong yen and expectations for weaker
global growth.  Crisis Spreads  Eastern European economies will expand at half last year’s
pace in 2012 as fallout from the euro-area debt crisis spreads,
the  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development  said on
July 25. Achieving a “soft landing” is a key challenge for
China amid the deteriorating external environment, the IMF said
on the same day.  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929) , a Hong Kong-based
jewelry retail chain that gets more sales than Tiffany & Co.,
slipped 6.3 percent to HK$8.62. Belle International Holdings
Ltd., the biggest retailer of women’s shoes in China, lost 2.6
percent to HK$13.36.  Gome Electrical Appliances tumbled 23 percent to a record
low of 61 Hong Kong cents after forecasting a first-half loss on
lower sales and losses at its e-commerce unit. The retailer
reported an 88 percent profit decline in the first quarter as
China stopped subsidizing some home appliance purchases.  About 52 percent of the 134 companies listed on the Asia-
Pacific index that have reported quarterly results this month
have  missed  analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Apple Suppliers  Apple suppliers fell across the region after the world’s
most valuable tech company posted profit and sales that  missed 
projections as customers held off on iPhone purchases while
waiting for a new handset to be introduced later in the year.  Hon Hai sank 6.8 percent to NT$83.50.  Catcher Technology
Co. (2474) , which manufactures casings for the iPhone, slid 5.8 percent
to NT$162.50 in Taipei. Toshiba Corp., a supplier of chips for
Apple’s iPad, slumped 9.8 percent to 257 yen in Tokyo.  Among stocks that advanced,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the
world’s biggest mobile-phone maker by revenue, rose 3.5 percent
to 1.233 million won in  Seoul . The company forecast higher
demand in  emerging markets  for its panel displays and handsets.
Second-quarter net income rose 48 percent to a record 5.19
trillion won ($4.5 billion), missing analysts’ estimates.  Fraser & Neave Ltd., a real estate company and beverage
maker, climbed 6.1 percent to S$8.40 amid speculation Heineken
NV may be forced to raise its S$50 per share offer for Asia
Pacific Breweries Ltd., the maker of Tiger beer and distributor
of Heineken in Asia. APB, which is owned 40 percent by F&N and
42 percent by Heineken, jumped 3.1 percent to S$50.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  