-- BHP to Delay Olympic Dam Expansion Until 2014, Australian Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-07-28T01:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/bhp-to-delay-olympic-dam-expansion-until-2014-australian-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, will delay approval of a $33 billion
mine expansion in  Australia  for two years because of falling
commodity  prices , The Australian newspaper reported.  The company will delay a decision until 2014, the newspaper
said, citing a document prepared by an unidentified consultancy.
The document was prepared with knowledge from BHP staff, the
Australian said.  The board of Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton  has been due to
decide on proceeding with the Olympic Dam copper-uranium-gold
mine expansion by the end of this year. Chief Executive Officer
 Marius Kloppers  warned in May that rising costs and easing
commodity prices may change the economics of certain projects.  “We will inform the market when decisions have been
taken,” Antonios Papaspiropoulos, a spokesman for BHP Billiton,
said by phone today. He declined to comment on the boards’
previously stated end-year decision deadline.  Mining companies are reassessing spending plans as
commodity prices drop, amid concern over growth in Europe and
 China , the biggest metals consumer.  China’s economy  expanded at
its slowest pace for six quarters in the three months to the end
of June. BHP needs to be flexible in the face of change,
Kloppers said last month.  Right to Proceed  An indenture agreement with  South Australia  state covering
aspects including royalty payments and tenure expires in
December. BHP will lose the right to proceed with the expansion
if it doesn’t start work by the end of the year, Tom
Koutsantonis, South Australia’s minister for mining, said in May.
Environmental approvals are valid until 2016.  Aside from Olympic Dam, BHP’s board is also due to decide
on two other major projects -- an iron-ore port expansion in
Western Australia and a potash project in  Canada  -- by the end
of the year. The three projects may cost a combined $68 billion
to build, according to a May 23 estimate from Deutsche Bank AG.
The bank estimated Olympic Dam alone will cost $33 billion.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the largest holder of BHP’s Australian
stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, said in March it
trimmed holdings due to concerns that spending on Olympic Dam
and shale gas assets may curb returns.  Rio Tinto Group, the third-largest mining company, in April
withdrew from talks to take part in a A$9 billion ($9.4 billion)
port expansion in Queensland where some of its coal mines are
located, citing economic volatility and higher costs.  BHP will fall short of a five-year spending target of $80
billion for building mines and expanding assets as it sees
commodity prices declining, Chairman Jac Nasser said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  