-- Canada Dollar Gains for 3rd Week as Central Banks Fuel Risk
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-07-28T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/canada-dollar-gains-for-3rd-week-as-central-banks-fuel-risk.html
Canada ’s dollar rose against its
U.S. peer for a third week, the longest streak since February,
as speculation central banks will take action to bolster
economic growth spurred demand for riskier assets.  The currency gained after European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi , German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Francois Hollande  said they would do whatever is
necessary to protect the euro. U.S. economic growth slowed less
in the second quarter than economists forecast. A report July 31
is  projected  to show Canada’s economy expanded 2.6 percent in
May from a year earlier.  “The Canadian dollar is going to be having more strong
days than weak days,”  Craig Wright , economist at Royal Bank of
Canada, the nation’s largest lender, said in a telephone
interview. “We’ve heard sort of a change in tone from
authorities in  Europe , and I think that will open the door for
this risk-on trade. In that environment, we’ve seen commodity
prices firm and the Canadian dollar move higher.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, rose 0.9 percent
this week to C$1.0033 per  U.S. dollar  in Toronto. The currency,
which last gained for three weeks during the period ended Feb.
3, is up 1.3 percent versus the greenback this month. One
Canadian dollar buys 98.68 U.S. cents.  Net Shorts  Futures traders increased their bets the Canadian dollar
will decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed
July 27.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was
2,432 on July 24, compared with net shorts of 1,208 a week
earlier. Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date.  The loonie breached its 50-, 100- and 200-day moving
averages this week as it approaches parity with the U.S. dollar.
The last time the two traded on a one-to-one basis was May 15,
when the loonie touched 99.90 cents to the greenback. Canada’s
dollar has traded in 2012 as strong as 98.04 cents on April 27
and as weak as C$1.0447 on June 4.  Canadian government 10-year bonds fell, pushing yields on up
13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 1.72 percent. The
2.75 percent securities maturing in June 2022 dropped C$1.29 to
C$109.06.  Central Banks  ECB President Draghi will hold talks with Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann on ECB bond purchases, to overcome the
biggest stumbling block to a new raft of measures to stem the
region’s debt crisis, including bond purchases, two central-bank
officials said. They requested anonymity because the talks are
private.  The ECB is scheduled to meet next week.  “The question is whether the rescue will live up to market
expectations,”  Jens Nordvig , managing director of currency
research at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen. “I
think it is doubtful whether a program will be announced” next
week.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback rose to 6.53 percent this week,
after falling for the past seven weeks. The five-year average is
12 percent. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to
set option prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.  Decreased volatility makes investments of currencies of
nations with higher benchmark  interest rates  more attractive
because there is less risk of market moves erasing profits.  Dollar Bull  “We’re still bullish on the Canadian dollar,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. Sutton predicted the
currency will reach 99 U.S. cents at the end of this year and 97
U.S. cents by the end of 2013.  Bank of Canada policy makers held the country’s main
interest rate at 1 percent July 17 and said an increase remains
possible. The Ottawa-based central bank meets Sept. 5 to
reconsider rates.  “Eventually, we see rates moving up in Canada well ahead
of what we expect by many other central banks,” Wright said.
“The trend will be toward a strengthening Canadian dollar
rather than a weakening.”  The  Federal Reserve  will open a two-day meeting July 31.
While policy makers refrained from introducing a third round of
asset purchases at their session last month, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated that it’s a possibility. The central bank
purchased $2.3 trillion of securities from 2008 to 2011 in two
rounds of a stimulus strategy called quantitative easing.  Economic Data  A Statistics Canada report July 31 may show Canada’s gross
domestic product, the value of all goods and services produced,
rose at a 0.2 percent in May, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The loonie rose 0.1 percent this week against nine major
counterparts, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. It has gained 2.4 percent this year, while the U.S.
dollar added 0.4 percent.  Canada’s dollar will end the year at C$1.02 per U.S.
dollar, according to median estimate of 41 forecasters surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net 
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  