-- Cavendish Blames Australia as British Olympic Medal Chase Stalls
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-28T23:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/cavendish-blames-australia-as-british-olympic-medal-chase-stalls.html
Britain’s gold medal chase went awry
on day one of the London Olympics when world champion  Mark Cavendish  finished 29th in the cycling road race. He blamed
Australians for not helping chase down a breakaway.  Kazakhstan’s Alexandr Vinokourov, 38, won in his last few
days as a pro rider. Rigoberto Uran of Colombia was second and
 Norway ’s Alexander Kristoff third.  Cavendish was the favorite yesterday with bookmaker Coral
Ltd., and a successful $1 wager would have yielded a $1 profit.
He finished 40 seconds off the pace as four compatriots
including Tour de  France  champion Bradley Wiggins couldn’t lead
him into a position to challenge in a sprint.  “The Australians just sat there and always ride
negatively,” Cavendish told the British Broadcasting Corp. “I
haven’t got a medal, but I’m really proud of my team and really
proud of my country for the support we had.”  The four Australians included 2011  Tour de France  champion
 Cadel Evans  and Team Sky’s Michael Rogers, who helped Wiggins
become the first Tour British winner on July 22.  London Mayor  Boris Johnson , who’s known for his deadpan
humor, said near the finish line that the defeat on day one was
a “classic British maneuver.”  “We’re lulling our competitors into a false sense of
security,” Johnson said in an interview. “The lulling may go
on for several days.”  British Target  Britain is targeting 48 medals at the games.  Spectators waving British flags lined the road five or six
deep as the riders made nine ascents of Box Hill in Surrey,
southwest of London. The British quintet led by  Ian Stannard  for
dozens of miles toiled to get within a minute of a 22-strong
breakaway during the 140-mile race that ended on The Mall near
 Buckingham Palace .  Vinokourov, who won silver at the Sydney games in 2000 and
failed a doping test at the 2007 Tour de France, outsprinted
Uran on the final straight away after the pair spent the last
several kilometers on their own.  The Kazakh darted ahead with some 300 meters left when Uran
turned to look behind him.  “It’s a beautiful reward for my career,” Vinokourov said.  Cavendish had fewer teammates to support him than at the
Tour de France -- in which teams have nine riders -- and didn’t
have radios to get guidance from team directors like in the
three-week stage, Kristoff said. Instead, they relied on
officials riding pillion on motorbikes to show them the time
margin on a blackboard.  Chris Froome, the Kenya-born Briton who finished second to
Wiggins at the Tour de France, gave up the chase with a few
miles remaining.  “It’s not easy with such small teams,” Kristoff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff at The Mall,  London  at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  