-- Colorado Firm Wins Ruling on Birth Control Insurance
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-07-28T01:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/colorado-firm-wins-ruling-on-birth-control-insurance.html
A  Colorado  company won a court order
preventing the federal government from requiring it to provide
insurance coverage for contraceptives as part of its employee-
health plan.  U.S. District Judge John L. Kane in Denver temporarily
blocked the requirement for Hercules Industries Inc., a family-
owned maker of heating and ventilation equipment. The company
challenged the provision of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act as a constitutional violation of religious
liberty.  Unlike other provisions of the law, the coverage mandate at
issue doesn’t apply to certain health-care plans existing on
March 23, 2010, when President  Barack Obama  signed the act into
law, Kane said in his order. The preventive care coverage must
begin on the start date of the first plan year following the
effective date of the regulations -- Nov. 1, 2012.  “In light of the extensive planning involved in preparing
and providing its employee insurance plan, and the uncertainty
that this matter will be resolved before the coverage effective
date,” Hercules Industries has “adequately established that
they will suffer imminent irreparable harm” without the
injunction, Kane said, in granting it.  The U.S. Supreme Court last month upheld the core of the
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, saying in a 5-4
ruling that Congress has the power to make Americans carry
insurance or pay a penalty.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  said it’s disappointed
by Kane’s ruling.  “It is unacceptable for employers -- especially for-profit
companies -- to use their personal beliefs as an excuse to deny
critical health coverage to the people who work for them,” said
Sarah Lipton-Lubet, a lawyer for the ACLU in  Washington , in an
e-mailed statement.  The case is Hercules Industries v. Sebelius, 12-1123, U.S.
District Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net 
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  