-- Euro Advances Most Since February as Officials Promise Support
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-28T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/euro-advances-most-since-february-as-officials-promise-support.html
The euro had the biggest weekly gain
versus the dollar since February as European Central Bank
officials and national leaders pledged to support the shared
currency mid surging sovereign-bond yields and concern the
region’s financial crisis is worsening.  The dollar dropped against most major peers as a government
report showed U.S. economic growth slowed in the second quarter
and the  Federal Reserve  prepared to meet next week. The ECB and
Bank of England will also meet next week. The South African rand
and  New Zealand dollar  climbed as risk appetite increased and
stocks rallied.  “The euro has done quite well this week,”  Shaun Osborne ,
chief currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities unit in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
“Yields running up in Italy and Spain prompted the ECB to be a
little bit more proactive in their management of this issue.”  The 17-nation currency strengthened 1.4 percent to $1.2322
this week in  New York , paring its monthly loss to 2.7 percent.
It was the first weekly gain since June 29 and the biggest since
Feb. 24. The euro appreciated versus the yen for the first time
in five weeks, rising 1.3 percent to 96.67. Japan’s currency was
little changed against the dollar at 78.46.  Futures traders decreased bets the euro will fall against
the dollar, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed.
The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those
on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 155,066 on July 24,
compared with 167,249 a week earlier. Net shorts reached a
record 214,418 on June 8.  Rand Climbs  South Africa ’s rand was the biggest winner among its 16
most-traded counterparts tracked by Bloomberg, climbing 1.6
percent to 8.1570 per dollar.  New Zealand’s dollar strengthened 1.3 percent, the most
since the week ended June 29, to 80.97 U.S. cents. It touched
81.06 cents yesterday, the highest level since May 3. The
Australian dollar appreciated 1 percent to $1.0483 and reached
$1.0487 yesterday, the strongest since March 27.  Implied  volatility  on three-month options for Group-of-
Seven currencies fell toward the lowest level in more than four
years, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index , touching
9.06 percent yesterday. It reached 8.32 percent on July 20, the
lowest since 2007, before rising to 9.83 July 24. The five-year
average is 12.4 percent.  Benchmark Rates  Lower volatility makes investments in currencies of nations
with higher benchmark  interest rates  more attractive because the
risk in such trades is that market moves will erase profits. Key
rates are 5 percent in South Africa and 3.5 percent in
 Australia , versus zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S. and 0.75
percent in the euro region.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 1.7 percent in its
biggest weekly gain since June.  The euro touched a three-week high against the greenback
yesterday after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Francois Hollande  said they’ll do “everything”
necessary to protect the single currency. Germany and France are
“bound by the deepest duty” to keep the 17-nation bloc intact,
they said in a joint statement.  The pledge followed a similar promise a day earlier by
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi . Ewald Nowotny, an
ECB council member, said July 25 there were arguments in favor
of giving Europe’s permanent bailout fund a banking license,
which would give it more firepower.  Spanish Bonds  Borrowing costs in Spain have surged amid concern the
nation may need a bailout, with 10-year  government-bond yields 
exceeding the 7 percent threshold for rescues for Greece,
Portugal and Ireland. The yields reached 7.75 percent on July
25, a euro-era record, before falling to 6.74 percent yesterday.
Italian 10-year yields reached 6.71 percent on July 25 before
ending the week at 5.96 percent.  Draghi and Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann will meet in
coming days in an effort to overcome the biggest stumbling block
to a new raft of measures to stem the region’s debt crisis,
including bond purchases, two central-bank officials said. They
requested anonymity because the talks are private.  The ECB chief’s proposal involves Europe’s rescue funds
buying  government bonds  on the primary market, flanked by ECB
purchases on the secondary market to ensure transmission of its
record low  interest rates , the officials said.  The euro later pared gains amid concern over whether such a
plan is achievable.  “This is a lot to promise in a short amount of time, and
people are wondering if Draghi is overreaching,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk at
Societe Generale SA in New York.  U.S. GDP  The dollar rose against the yen yesterday after U.S.
economic growth slowed less in the second quarter than
economists forecast, damping bets the Fed will take more
stimulus action next week.  U.S. gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced, rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate after a
revised 2 percent gain in the prior quarter, Commerce Department
figures showed in  Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey was for 1.4 percent.  “It’s not a number that’s going to prompt the Fed into
another round of quantitative easing,”  Omer Esiner , chief market
analyst in Washington at the currency brokerage Commonwealth
Foreign Exchange Inc., said yesterday.  Fed Meeting  The Fed opens a two-day meeting on July 31. While policy
makers refrained from introducing a third round of asset
purchases at their session last month, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
indicated it’s an option. The central bank bought $2.3 trillion
in assets in two rounds of the strategy called quantitative
easing from 2008 to 2011 to spur the economic recovery.  “We know what the state of the  U.S. economy  is, and the
report really is not a surprise,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief
economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, wrote
yesterday in a note to clients, referring to the GDP data.
“Bernanke and crew have repeatedly stated that they are
concerned and are standing by to take further action. We remain
unsure what the benefit of prolonging the wait might be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  