-- Ex-Penn State Chief Has New Job, School Spokesman Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-07-28T03:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/ex-penn-state-chief-has-new-job-school-spokesman-says.html
Graham Spanier , ousted as president
of  Pennsylvania State University  over the Jerry Sandusky child
sex-abuse scandal, has taken a national-security job working
with the U.S. government, a university spokesman said.  David La Torre, the school’s spokesman, described the job
in an e-mail yesterday as a part-time consulting position and
declined to provide further details. Spanier and his lawyer,
Peter Vaira, didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  Spanier, 64, served as Penn State president from 1995 until
his firing in November. A July 12 report by former FBI director
 Louis Freeh  said Spanier, ex-football coach  Joe Paterno , and
other university officials failed to protect children from
sexual abuse by Sandusky, a former assistant football coach.
Sandusky, 68, was convicted last month of 45 criminal counts
tied to abuse of boys over a 15-year period.  While serving as  Penn State  president, Spanier led a board
that coordinated communication on national security matters
between universities and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .
Through the panel, created in 2005 and known as the National
Security Higher Education Advisory Board, university presidents
and the FBI discussed sensitive research that might need to be
protected from foreign espionage, according to the FBI.  Because Spanier is no longer a university president, he
isn’t affiliated with the board, Paul Bresson, an FBI spokesman,
said yesterday.  Security Interest  Spanier said in an interview earlier this year that his
interest in working with the FBI stemmed from when he became
Penn State’s president and read about a president at another
state university being shocked that a faculty member was under
investigation for terrorist ties.  He said he resolved not to be caught off guard in the same
way and sought a closer collaboration with  law enforcement .  Spanier arranged a meeting with representatives of national
security agencies including the FBI, Central Intelligence
Agency, Secret Service and Naval Criminal Investigative Service,
he said.  “This had never occurred before,” Spanier said. “Nobody
from higher education had reached out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  