-- Michigan’s Dave Camp Says He Has Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-07-29T04:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/michigan-s-dave-camp-says-he-has-non-hodgkins-lymphoma.html
Representative  Dave Camp , chairman
of the  House Ways and Means Committee  who is seeking to overhaul
the U.S. tax code, said he plans to work while getting
chemotherapy treatment for cancer in the next few months.  “After a recent routine yearly physical, it was discovered
that I have a very early, highly treatable and curable type of
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma,” the Michigan Republican said yesterday
in a e-mailed  statement . “My health is otherwise excellent, and
my doctors and I expect a full recovery and cure.”  Treatments for “large B-cell lymphoma” will consist of
sessions every three weeks, said Camp, whose committee also has
jurisdiction over the federal health-care law upheld by the
 Supreme Court  on June 28. He said he’ll continue his work,
including committee leadership, in between the treatments.  Camp, 59, is pursuing a revamp of the tax-code that would
cut the top individual and corporate tax rates to 25 percent
from 35 percent. Camp, a member of President  Barack Obama ’s
bipartisan fiscal commission in 2010 and the congressional
deficit-reduction supercommittee in 2011, has a bill to be taken
up by the House that would extend income tax cuts for a year.  Lymphoma is the most common blood cancer, according to the
Lymphoma Research Foundation. Patients often require immediate
treatment and receive standard chemotherapy, which helps “lead
to a cure in a large number of people” with this lymphoma,
according to the New York-based foundation’s website.  Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat, was
diagnosed in 2010 with B-cell lymphoma of the stomach, his
office said in a statement in February that year. He was treated
with chemotherapy, according to the statement. The large B-cell
lymphoma is the most common form, according to the website of
the Mayo Clinic  “I’m honored to call Dave a friend and have no doubt he’ll
whip this with characteristic strength and grace,” House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican who entered Congress at
the same time as Camp in 1991, said in a  statement  on his
website. “He is as tough and determined as they come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  