-- London Mayor Criticizes Lawmaker Over Olympic Opening Attack
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-07-28T14:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/london-mayor-criticizes-lawmaker-over-olympic-opening-attack.html
London Mayor  Boris Johnson  rejected
criticism of the Olympic opening ceremony by a fellow
Conservative lawmaker who described it as “leftie multicultural
crap.”  Aidan Burley, who was dismissed from a ministerial job in
Prime Minister David Cameron’s government last year for
attending a Nazi-themed stag party, used the Twitter social
media site to criticize the show as it was being broadcast live
to more than a billion viewers around the world late yesterday.
He later posted another message saying he had been misunderstood
and intended to criticize the show, not multiculturalism.  “It was actually the truth about this country in the last
two or three hundred years told in a big, dynamic way,” Johnson
 told ITV News . “People say it was all leftie stuff. That is
nonsense. I’m a Conservative and I had hot tears of patriotic
pride from the beginning.”  The show featured a sweep through British history and
celebrated the achievements of people with immigrant heritage in
the U.K., including the engineer Isambard Kingdom Brunel, rapper
Dizzee Rascal and choreographer Akram Khan. The Royal Air Force
Red Arrow aerobatic team flew over the stadium to open the
ceremony.  “Thank God the athletes have arrived!” Burley tweeted.
“Now we can move on from leftie multi-cultural crap. Bring back
Red Arrows, Shakespeare and the Stones! The most leftie opening
ceremony I have ever seen - more than Beijing, the capital of a
communist state!”  The main opposition  Labour Party  called on Cameron to force
a full apology from Burley.  `Ignorant and Offensive'  “Burley has got form,” Labour lawmaker Michael Dugher
said in an e-mailed statement. “His comments were stupid,
ignorant and offensive.  David Cameron  has said that the
 Conservative party  has changed but it is clear from the words of
his own MP that not a lot has changed.”  Cameron’s office directed callers to a tweet the prime
minister sent after the show which showed he disagreed with
Burley.  “The opening ceremony has been a great showcase for this
country,” the prime minister wrote. “It’s more proof Britain
can deliver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  