-- Panel Urges More U.S. Ships in Pacific for Pivot to Asia
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-07-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/panel-urges-more-u-s-ships-in-pacific-for-pivot-to-asia.html
The Defense Department should move
more ships to the Pacific and better define its strategy as it
pivots toward  Asia  to counter a rising China, according to a
report commissioned by the Pentagon.  The U.S. should deploy a second Amphibious Ready Group of
ships from the Atlantic to the Pacific to meet the requirements
of the Marine Corps, the report made public yesterday
recommends. It also calls for stationing at least one additional
attack submarine in Guam.  Congress required the Pentagon to obtain the independent
assessment of U.S. Asia policy after President  Barack Obama 
released a strategic plan in January that called for a
“rebalancing” of military forces toward the Asia Pacific. The
report by the Center for Strategic and International Studies
found the military’s force posture “is heavily tilted toward
Northeast Asia, to Korea and Japan” to focus on threats on the
Korean peninsula and the  Taiwan Strait .  “As evidenced by recent Chinese activities in the  South
China Sea  and throughout the Pacific islands, the stakes are
growing fastest in South and Southeast Asia,” the Washington-
based group said. “To be successful, U.S. strategic rebalancing
needs to do more in those areas.”  The report also said the Defense Department “has not
adequately articulated the strategy behind its force posture
planning nor aligned the strategy with resources in a way that
reflects current budget realities.”  Budget Cuts  That finding raises questions about whether the Pentagon is
prepared to explain the need for increased resources in the
Pacific when it’s facing as much as $1 trillion in cuts from
planned spending over the next decade.  John Hamre, the center’s president and chief executive
officer, likened the need for a clear strategy toward Asia to
the “remarkably consistent defense policy” that guided the
U.S. during the  Cold War .  “We now need a comparable framework for the next 30 years
in Asia,” Hamre, a former deputy defense secretary, wrote in a
letter to Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  accompanying the
report.  Leaders of the Senate Armed Services Committee, in a joint
statement, said the report “raises a number of issues that are
worthy of further consideration.”  Noting the report’s call for a more clearly stated
strategy, Democratic Senators  Carl Levin  of Michigan and  Jim
Webb  of Virginia and Republican  John McCain  of Arizona said,
“This is particularly important as support for the resourcing
of major overseas initiatives, in the current fiscal
environment, will depend to a significant extent on a clear
articulation of U.S. strategic imperatives and the manner in
which the investments address them.”  Panetta, in his own written comments on the report, took
exception to a few details, such as a recommendation to rotating
fewer than 5,000 Marines to  Guam . He said the Defense Department
and the research group “are on common ground in understanding
the key challenges to and opportunities for U.S. interests in
the Asia-Pacific region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  