-- Panetta Begins Mideast Trip as Iran Dominates Israel Talk
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-07-29T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/panetta-heads-to-middle-east-as-iran-dominates-israel-talks.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
arrived today in  Tunisia  at the start of a five-day trip to the
Mideast region, where tensions are rising over the democratic
transition in  Egypt , turmoil in  Syria  and  Iran ’s suspected
advances toward nuclear weapons.  His trip to Tunisia, Egypt,  Israel  and Jordan has a
security agenda, including new concerns about Syrian chemical
weapons, along with election-season political stakes. Panetta is
scheduled to arrive in Israel on the heels of a visit by
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who has appealed
to Jewish voters by attacking President  Barack Obama  as lacking
sufficient commitment to Israel’s security.  “With Israel, we have achieved a level of defense
cooperation that is unprecedented in our history and my goal is
to deepen and strengthen that relationship even further,”
Panetta said to reporters aboard his plane.  One public source of tension between the Obama
administration and Israeli leaders involves the urgency of
military strikes against Iran’s nuclear sites. While the U.S.
and Israel both say they suspect Iran is covertly seeking
nuclear-weapons capabilities through  uranium enrichment  and
other activities, the two allies have disagreed openly about how
much time to give economic sanctions and negotiations to
persuade Iran to give up much its nuclear program.  With a lack of progress in the negotiations, “the clocks
in  Washington  and  Tel Aviv  are out of sync” on the timing for
military action, said  David Makovsky , a Middle East specialist
at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. The Obama
administration’s strategy is to see if Iran backs down as
international sanctions increasingly hurt its economy, saying
there is time for military action as a last alternative.  Limited Time  In February, Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  warned
that the Jewish state would need to act militarily within
months, before Iran reaches a “zone of immunity” where its
underground enrichment facilities would be invulnerable to
Israeli air strikes. Iran says its nuclear program is peaceful,
for generating electricity and medical purposes.  One of Panetta’s goals in Israel may be seeking to ensure
that Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  doesn’t mount a
military strike before the  U.S. presidential election , Makovsky
said.  Panetta told reporters that the Israelis have “not made
any decisions on Iran and continue to support the international
effort to bring pressure on Iran to pull back from their effort
to develop a nuclear capability.”  ‘Reassure’ Israel  Panetta, 74, may have to “reassure Israel that the U.S.
will take care of the Iran situation, especially if Obama is
elected to a second term,” said Yehuda Ben Meir, a principal
research fellow at Tel Aviv University’s Institute for National
Security Studies.  Panetta’s visit to Israel follows trips there this month by
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , White House National
Security Adviser Tom Donilon and Deputy Secretary of State Bill Burns. An Israeli official denied a report in the daily Haaretz
today that said Donilon briefed Netanyahu on U.S. plans for a
possible strike  Iran’s nuclear program . The Israel official
spoke on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the
matter.  Speaking in Israel, Romney said he recognizes Israel’s
right to defend itself “and that it is right for America to
stand with you.”  ‘Close Partnership’  Panetta, while saying he wouldn’t comment on remarks by
political candidates, said of Israel, “As the president has
made clear, we respect their sovereignty and their ability to
make decisions on their security. But at the same time, we have
developed a very close partnership with regards to dealing with
threats in the region including dealing with Iran.”  Panetta will meet with his Israeli defense counterpart,
Barak, for the ninth time in a year, a U.S. defense official
said. He will meet Netanyahu for the third time since becoming
defense secretary in July 2011, according to the official who
briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity.  The meetings are “all part of keeping Israel on our side”
and ensuring that its leaders don’t “come to a different
conclusion about the Iranian nuclear program,” said Richard Armitage, a U.S. deputy secretary of state under President
 George W. Bush  and currently president of Armitage
International, an Arlington, Virginia-based consulting firm.  Obama’s ‘Priority’  In advance of Romney’s arrival in Israel, Obama sought to
counter Republican criticism as he signed legislation July 27 to
bolster U.S. military cooperation. Obama highlighted the release
of $70 million for the Iron Dome missile-defense system, which
protects Israeli from short-range rockets.  “I have made it a top priority for my administration to
deepen cooperation with Israel across the whole spectrum of
security issues, intelligence, military, technology,” he said
at the White House.  Israel’s preoccupation with stopping Iran’s nuclear program
is now rivaled by a second security peril -- that the chaos in
Syria may enable Islamic militants from Lebanon’s Hezbollah or
other groups to obtain Syrian chemical weapons for use against
the Jewish state.  The U.S., Israel and Jordan have been coordinating efforts
to monitor those stockpiles of sarin and VX nerve gas and to
plan actions if there is a security breach. Netanyahu said July
22 that he doesn’t rule out Israeli action to prevent such
weapons from being acquired by militants amid a collapse of the
Assad regime.  Chemical Weapons  “We have been in very close consultations with the
Jordanians, Turkey and other allies in the region to ensure that
we are closely monitoring the situation with regards to those
chemical weapons,” Panetta said.  At his first stop, the defense secretary will sketch out a
future for U.S.-Tunisia military ties, the U.S. defense official
said. The two countries meet annually through the U.S.-Tunisian
Joint Military Commission to discuss cooperation, Tunisia’s
defense modernization and training, according to the State
Department. More than 3,000 Tunisian military officers and
technicians have  received training  in U.S. military schools in
the past two decades, according to the Defense Department.  In Egypt, Panetta will meet with Field Marshall Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, the country’s military chief, and newly elected
President Mohamed Mursi, the U.S. defense official said.  During the revolt that led to the ouster of former
President  Hosni Mubarak  last year, Panetta was in regular
contact with Tantawi as the U.S. pressured the military not to
crush the pro-democracy protests. Panetta will encourage the
Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, which Tantawi leads, to
support transition to civilian rule, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  