-- Pennsylvania Governor Says State Appealing Fracking Order
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-28T00:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/pennsylvania-governor-says-state-appealing-fracking-order.html
Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett
said his state is appealing a court ruling that yesterday
invalidated parts of a law easing energy development of the
Marcellus Shale formation.  The formation, which lies beneath parts of Pennsylvania,
 New York ,  Ohio ,  Maryland ,  Virginia  and  West Virginia  has an
estimated 400 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, one of the
largest such formations in the world, trade associations have
said. The gas is extracted through hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking.  The Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania struck down a
requirement that the state’s Department of Environmental
Protection waive water and wetland set-back restrictions for
well-site construction and drilling in certain circumstances.  In
a 4-3 ruling , the judges also invalidated a provision requiring
uniformity of local ordinances governing resource development.  Each provision was found unconstitutional. The setback
provision doesn’t provide guidance to the environmental
regulatory agency on “its discretion to decide to waive the
distance requirements,” effectively giving it legislative power
to make those decisions, the court said.  ‘Critically Important’  “The provisions struck down by the Commonwealth Court are
critically important for job creators who are employing more
than 240,000 Pennsylvanians,” for landowners and for local
governments seeking guidance on energy-resource development,
Corbett said today in a press statement.  Corbett, a first-term Republican and former state attorney
general, said the legislation was “the result of months of
compromise and negotiation, with significant input and support”
from the state’s local government associations.  Seven municipalities, an environmental defense group and a
physician were among who filed suit against the state.  The Commonwealth Court panel rejected eight of the
plaintiffs’ claims, while ruling in their favor on four others.  Dissenting on the uniformity issue, Judge Kevin Brobson
said that portion of the law was written to optimize development
of the state’s oil and gas resources “wherever those resources
are found.”  “The natural resources of this commonwealth exist where
they are without regard to any municipality’s comprehensive
plan,” Brobson said.  The case is Robinson Township v. Commonwealth of
 Pennsylvania , 284 MD 2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  