-- Treasuries Fall as European Leaders to Meet on Crisis Measures
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-07-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/treasuries-fall-as-european-leaders-to-meet-on-crisis-measures.html
Treasury 10-year note yields rose
for the first time in five weeks as European leaders pledged to
take steps to resolve the region’s sovereign-debt crisis,
damping demand for the safest assets.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and the head
of the Bundesbank will discuss new rescue measures, which could
include bond purchases, two central bank officials said. The
leaders of Germany and  France  said they would do “everything”
necessary to save the common currency. The  Federal Reserve  will
announce Aug. 1 whether it intends to take additional measures
to bolster the  U.S. economy .  “Draghi’s comments have lifted expectations that the ECB
is finally ready to act,” said Guy Haselmann, an interest-rate
strategist in  New York  at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , one of the 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “The marketplace is
expecting something out of the Fed.”  The U.S. 10-year yield rose nine basis points for the week,
or 0.09 percentage point, to 1.55 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note due in May
2022 fell 26/32, or $8.13 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 27/32.  Treasury trading  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , rose to $330.3
billion at 5:03 p.m. yesterday, the highest since June 6.
Trading has averaged $240.1 billion this year.  ‘Buying Point’  Investors should view the rise in yields from record lows
as an “attractive buying point,” Brett Rose, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at primary dealer Citigroup Inc., wrote
yesterday in a report. “We expect that many of the same things
that have guided yields lower over the past year will drive
yields even lower.”  The U.S. central bank purchased $2.3 trillion in securities
in two rounds of a strategy called quantitative easing from 2008
to 2011 to spur the economic recovery. While Fed policy makers
at their meeting last month refrained from introducing a third
round of asset purchases, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated
that it’s an option.  The Fed has kept it benchmark lending rate in a range
between zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “People think the Fed can fire off another round of bond-
buying programs,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA. “The payrolls report
has disappointed three months in a row. I can’t imagine
expectations are very optimistic for that.”  ‘For Armageddon’  The Labor Department will likely say Aug. 3 that the U.S.
economy added 100,000 jobs in July, according to the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey, an increase
over 80,000 the prior month. The  unemployment rate  is forecast
to hold steady at 8.2 percent, another survey shows.  U.S. gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced in the nation, rose at a 1.5 percent annual
rate. That followed a revised 2 percent pace in the prior
quarter, and compared with the 1.4 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The market was positioned for Armageddon,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “We’ll go back to
comfort zone, 1.5 percent. That could be comfort for the market,
but it may take a little bit more to get there.”  Draghi and Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann will hold
talks in the coming days in an effort to overcome the biggest
stumbling block to a new raft of measures including bond
purchases, two central bank officials said.  The central-banker meeting “definitely spooks people” who
own longer-term Treasuries, said Prakash of BNP Paribas.  Central Banks  Treasuries declined yesterday on speculation major central
banks globally will boost measures to revive the global economy.
The ECB and Bank of England also meet next week, and the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  gathers Aug. 9.  Spanish and Italian bonds surged yesterday after Le Monde
reported that the ECB is preparing to buy securities in the
secondary market, followed by primary-market purchases from the
region’s bailout funds. A spokeswoman for the ECB declined to
comment.  Two-year notes  posted the first weekly loss since June as
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois
Hollande  said their countries are “bound by the deepest duty”
to keep the monetary union intact.  France and Germany both seek “quick” implementation of
resolutions made at a June 28-29 European Union summit,
according to the statement.  “Still, we can’t go too much higher in yield as there are
still massive concerns in  Europe ,” said RBC’s Cloherty. “And
domestically we are still seeing slower growth.”  Ten-year notes have returned 5.8 percent this year and 2.2
percent this month, compared with a 3.1 percent gain by
Treasuries overall this year and 1.4 percent this month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  