-- Romney Plans Private Israel Event With Top U.S. Donors
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-07-28T21:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/romney-plans-private-israel-event-with-top-u-s-donors.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  is planning to hold a meeting in Jerusalem this week
with top campaign donors that will be closed to reporters
accompanying him on a six-day foreign tour.  Many of the fundraisers, a group of top Romney supporters
that includes casino executive  Sheldon Adelson , traveled from
the U.S. to join the campaign for tomorrow’s event at the King
David Hotel. The price to attend: A donation of $50,000 or
having raised $100,000 for the campaign, according to an
invitation obtained by Bloomberg News.  Previously, the Romney campaign had agreed to let the media
into all fundraising events at public venues. In Israel, the
campaign plans to bar the press, aide  Rick Gorka  said.  President  Barack Obama  allows reporter coverage of his
fundraisers at public venues. At events in private homes, a pool
of reporters can listen to his opening remarks before they are
ushered out.  Romney has been overheard by reporters making political
statements to donors in private that he doesn’t repeat in
public. During an April event at a waterfront mansion in
Florida, he told fundraisers he would consider drastically
reducing the Education Department and eliminate the Department
of Housing and Urban Development, according to NBC News.  Earlier this month, he didn’t mention former President
 George W. Bush  by name in a speech at a fundraiser hosted by
former Vice President  Dick Cheney  at a golf course near Jackson
Hole, Wyoming. Yet reporters later overheard him mentioning Bush
at a private dinner at Cheney’s home.  Foreign Tour  The Jerusalem event is the second fundraiser held by Romney
during an international tour designed to highlight his foreign-
policy credentials. On July 26, almost 250 donors joined Romney
in London at an event that raised at least $2 million, according
to campaign aide  Spencer Zwick . A small group of reporters was
allowed to listen as Romney spoke. Hosts included donors with
ties to banks involved in the Libor rate-fixing scandal, a fact
scrutinized in the press.  Fred Zeidman, a Houston-based donor attending the Israel
fundraiser, said the crowd is expected to be largely pro- Israel 
Americans who traveled from the U.S. for the event.  Campaign aides refused to comment on the decision to bar
the media from attending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  