-- Romney Dressage Rider Hits Back at Elitist Jibes Over Olympics
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-07-28T12:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/romney-dressage-rider-hits-back-at-elitist-jibes-over-olympics.html
Jan Ebeling, the 53-year-old who
will be riding  Ann Romney ’s horse Rafalca in dressage at the
London Olympics, said the elitist tag put on the sport is unfair.  Ann Romney’s part-ownership of the horse has been lampooned
by critics of her husband, Republican presidential candidate
Mitt Romney, as being symbolic of the family being out of touch
with normal Americans. Dressage, which involves horses carrying
out controlled movements, can be pursued on a “normal budget,”
Ebeling said. He declined to put a figure on what “normal”
might be.  “If you look at our team, there’s nobody who’s a
millionaire,” Ebeling said today in an interview at the Olympic 
Park. “When I grew up we had no money. I worked my butt off. I
cleaned stalls. People saw the talent and would let me ride
their horses. Money is not something that defines dressage. It’s
something you can do with a normal budget.”  Ebeling will ride the horse as part of the U.S. team at
Greenwich Park in southeast  London  in competition starting
Aug. 2. The team expects the gold to be won by Germany or
Britain, with the U.S.’s best chance a bronze, squad members
Ebeling, Tina Konyot and Steffen Peters told reporters at a
briefing today.  “The only sport the Romneys could be involved in that
would make them look wealthier than dressage would be gold-coin
diving in their family safe,” Hadley Freeman, a columnist for
the London-based  Guardian newspaper , wrote on July 25.  Riches, Royalty  The Olympic equestrian arena where Rafalca will perform is
no stranger to wealth and privilege, with Prince Abdullah al
Saud of  Saudi Arabia , Alvaro Affonso de Miranda Neto, husband of
Athina Onassis; Princess Nathalie Zu Sayn-Wittgenstein of
 Denmark  and  Zara Phillips , granddaughter of Britain’s Queen
Elizabeth II, among the riders competing across a range of
disciplines.  “In every sport you have athletes and sponsors who may pay
more money and the ones who don’t have so much money,” Ebeling
said. “Riding lessons don’t have to cost much money and if you
buy a young horse you don’t have to pay the seven digits that I
have heard about. You can buy a foal for very cheap.”  Ebeling said he has shut out the controversy over his horse
and its “high visibility” owner and the team benefited from
banning the media from its training camp.  “I’ve worked over the years on perfecting my mental
game,” he said. “I go into a bubble. I don’t listen to the
news or listen to the radio. That for me is the way to deal with
it. My horse is owned by three ladies so there’s a lot of
pressure right there.”  Wonderful  Ann Romney will be at the venue to watch her horse in
action, Ebeling said, though he said he didn’t know whether  Mitt
Romney  will be in Greenwich to see the horse arrive from the
training camp today.  There has been a benefit from all the attention, Ebeling
said.  “For our sport of dressage it’s been absolutely wonderful
to have this coverage from mainstream media. We love it,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  