-- Ryan Lochte Makes Phelps Look Human as He Takes 400 Medley Crown
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-28T23:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/ryan-lochte-makes-phelps-look-human-as-he-takes-400-medley-crown.html
Fourteen-time gold medalist  Michael Phelps  is human after all.  Ryan Lochte , his friend, fellow 27-year-old and U.S.
teammate, won the 400-meter individual medley last night at the
 London Olympics  by a margin of almost four seconds.  Phelps, the two-time Olympic champion in the event,
struggled from the start and finished fourth. It was the first
time he hasn’t won a medal in an Olympic race since 2000.  “ A lot of people say Michael is inhuman but you know
what, he’s just like all of us,” Lochte said in a news
conference. “He trains harder though. He knows how to win and
that’s what you really have to learn.”  Phelps, who had scraped into the final, described his race
as “frustrating.”  “That’s all I can say,” the 27-year-old told reporters.
“It’s pretty upsetting. But I think the biggest thing now is
just to try to get past this and move forward. I have a bunch of
other races and hopefully we can finish a lot better than we
started. That’s what I’m going to try to do.”  The two men are scheduled to race again in the 200-meter
individual medley on Aug. 2.  Swimming events decided today are the women’s 100-meter
butterfly, the men’s 100-meter breaststroke, the women’s 400-
meter freestyle and the men’s 400-meter freestyle relays.  Fast Start  Lochte, a 27-year-old American, yesterday won the first
final at the Aquatics Centre in 4 minutes, 5.18 seconds. The
event includes 100 meters each of butterfly, backstroke,
breaststroke and freestyle.  Lochte led from the start and extended his advantage after
the second leg. He won by 3.68 seconds. Thiago Pereira, 26, of
 Brazil  took the silver and Kosuke Hagino, 17, of  Japan  won the
bronze.  Bob Bowman, Phelps’ coach, couldn’t explain the swimmer’s
worst result in an Olympic final since he was a 15-year-old
rookie at the Sydney Games.  “I honestly don’t think it was a fitness issue,” Bowman
told reporters. “I thought he was in a good place mentally.”  Phelps remains two short of tying the record 18 Olympic
medals won by former Soviet gymnast Larissa Latynina.  He took two years out after winning a record eight gold
medals in Beijing before returning to the pool in 2010. At that
time he said he wouldn’t return to the 400 medley but changed
his mind a year later.  Training Changes  Lochte, a Floridian who’s 11 months older than Phelps, has
credited his recent successes to a fitness plan that includes
rolling large tires, tossing kegs and dragging heavy chains.
Although Lochte won two gold medals in Beijing in 2008, he’d
been overshadowed by Phelps.  The tables turned after Beijing, as Lochte won 15 gold
medals at the following three world championships. Lochte, who
took bronze in the 400-meter individual medley in Beijing, won
the event at the 2009 and 2011 world championships. At last
month’s U.S. swimming trials in Omaha,  Nebraska , he beat Phelps
in the event in a personal best of 4:07.06.  “This is my year,” Lochte said yesterday. “I feel it
because I’ve put in a lot of hard work. I’ve trained my butt off
for four years and I just feel inside my gut that this is my
year. There’s no better way to start this Olympics than with in
my first race getting a gold.”  Among those in the crowd was  Michelle Obama , the wife of
the U.S. president. The crowd cheered “USA, USA,” after Lochte
won the race, and  Bruce Springsteen ’s “Born in the USA” played
before the medal ceremony, the first gold of the games for the
American team.  The men’s 400-meter freestyle was won by Yang Sun, 20, of
China in a time of 3:40.14.  South Korea ’s Park Tae-Hwan finished
second, while Peter Vanderkaay of the U.S. got the bronze.  Protest Upheld  Park, the Olympic champion in Beijing, had successfully
appealed his disqualification for a false start in winning his
heat.  The Korean Swimming Federation lodged a protest that was
upheld by the technical commission of FINA, international
swimming’s governing body.  China ’s 16-year-old Shiwen Ye won the women’s 400-meter
individual medley in a world-record time of 4:28.43. It was the
first world record set in the London swimming competition.  Australia ’s team of Alicia Coutts, Cate Campbell, Brittany
Elmslie, 18, and Melanie Schlanger, 25, won the women’s 400-
meter freestyle relay in an Olympic-record 3:33.15. The
Netherlands, 2008 champion, took the silver medal and the U.S.
the bronze.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Olympic Park at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in Olympic Park at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  