-- Saudi Shares Gain Most in Almost Four Weeks on Stimulus Hopes
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-07-28T14:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/saudi-shares-rise-most-in-almost-four-weeks-on-stimulus-outlook.html
Saudi Arabian (SABIC)  stocks advanced the
most in almost four weeks on speculation governments and central
banks will take steps to contain the euro-region debt crisis and
stoke economic growth.  Bank stocks gained, led by  Bank Albilad (ALBI) , which climbed the
most in two weeks.  Al Rajhi  Bank, the kingdom’s biggest lender
by market value, added 0.4 percent. Saudi Basic Industries
Corp., the world’s largest petrochemicals maker by market value,
rose 4.1 percent, the most since April 17.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 1.5 percent to 6,767.81 in
Riyadh, the biggest increase since July 3. The measure has
advanced 5.5 percent this year.  The “possibility of further stimulus in the U.S. and
recent announcements coming out of Europe are lifting
sentiment,” Asim Bukhtiar, head of research at Riyad Capital,
said by e-mail. “Volumes today look healthy considering the
ongoing Ramadan month. Expect some tapering off in the next two
weeks as we head into” Eid al-Fitr holidays.  European and U.S. equities gained yesterday on optimism
Europe’s policy makers will take further action. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  increased 1.7 percent this week, the most in
four weeks.  ECB, Fed Meetings  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  is said to be
planning talks in the coming days with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann on stimulus measures including bond purchases. ECB and
Federal Reserve policy makers are scheduled to gather next week
in separate meetings.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Francois Hollande pledged to do everything to protect the single
currency. The two largest euro-area economies are “bound by the
deepest duty” to keep the 17-nation currency bloc intact,
Merkel and Hollande said in a joint statement.  Bank Albilad rose 1.7 percent, the most since July 15, to
29.50 riyals. Al Rajhi added 0.4 percent to 72 riyals, after
earlier gaining as much as 1.4 percent.  Wala’a Insurance (WALAA) 
advanced 10 percent, also the most since July 15, to 30.80
riyals.  Oil for September delivery rose 0.8 percent to $90.13 a
barrel by the close on the New York Mercantile Exchange
yesterday, a fourth straight increase.  All 14 members of the Tadawul All Share Petrochemical
Industries Index gained. Sabic jumped as much as 4.4 percent and
closed up 4.1 percent at 89.75 riyals.  Saudi International
Petrochemical Co. (SIPCHEM) , known as Sipchem, added 3 percent to 18.65
riyals.  About 310 million shares were traded in Saudi Arabia today,
compared with a 12-month daily average of 336 million. The
Islamic holy month of Ramadan, when Muslims fast from sunrise to
sunset and business activity slows, started earlier in July. The
celebrations end with the Eid al-Fitr holiday.  Saudi Arabia ’s stock exchange is the only Persian Gulf
bourse operating on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  