-- SEC Freezes Assets in Insider Probe of CNOOC’s Nexen Buy
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-07-28T04:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/sec-freezes-assets-in-insider-probe-of-cnooc-s-nexen-buy.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission obtained a court order to freeze assets of traders
who allegedly reaped more than $13 million by trading illegally
ahead of  CNOOC Ltd. (883) ’s announcement that it would buy  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   Hong Kong-based Well Advantage Limited and other unknown
traders stockpiled shares of Nexen based on confidential
information about the deal, the SEC said in a statement today
announcing a complaint filed at federal court in  Manhattan . The
court order froze about $38 million in assets, the SEC said.  Nexen’s stock rose more than  50 percent  on July 23 after
CNOOC,  China ’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer, said that
it would pay $15.1 billion in cash to acquire the Calgary-based
company in the biggest overseas takeover by a Chinese firm. The
price was $27.50 for each common share, a premium of 61 percent
to Nexen’s closing price on July 20, the previous trading day.  “Well Advantage and these other traders engaged in an all-
too-familiar pattern of misusing inside information to place
extremely timely trades and profit handsomely from their illegal
acts,” Sanjay Wadhwa, deputy head of the SEC’s market abuse
enforcement unit, said in a statement.  Almost all of the purchases of Nexen stock occurred during
the seven trading days before the acquisition was announced, and
the accounts used for the transactions had little or no history
of buying Nexen shares. Well Advantage’s owner is controlling
shareholder of a Hong Kong-based company that engages in
significant business activities with CNOOC, the SEC said.  The SEC complaint didn’t list defense counsel for Well
Advantage and the other traders. A telephone call yesterday to a
Hong Kong number listed for Zhang Zhi Rong, Well Advantage’s
sole owner, wasn’t answered. Calls and emails to a spokesman
were not answered today.  Close Ties  Zhang controls shipbuilder and petrochemical engineering
firm China  Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , a
company that has close business ties to Cnooc, according to the
SEC’s filing. Zhang, who is also the chairman and founder of
 Glorious Property Holdings Ltd., (845)  according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, was listed as China’s 38th richest person with a
fortune of $2.9 billion in the 2010 Hurun Report, which tracks
the country’s wealthy.  Bloomberg data showed trading in bullish Nexen options
reached the highest level since 2008 before Cnooc announced it
would buy the energy company. A total of 47,302 calls traded on
the company’s U.S. shares last week, with bullish contracts
reaching 24,554 on July 20, the most since March 2008.  Call options that convey the right to acquire shares for a
given price by a certain date usually offer higher returns than
stock to traders speculating on takeover. Nexen said last year
it was exploring a sale and the departure of its chief executive
officer in January spurred speculation it might find a buyer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  