-- Solyndra Files Plan to Reorganize in Chapter 11 Bankruptcy
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-28T04:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/solyndra-files-plan-to-reorganize-in-chapter-11-bankruptcy.html
Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel maker
that received a $535 million U.S. Energy Department loan
guarantee for seeking  bankruptcy protection , filed a Chapter 11
reorganization plan.  The plan provides for holders of allowed administrative
expenses and priority claims to be paid in full, and assets of
Solyndra will be vested in the Solyndra Residual Trust,
according to a filing yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington, Delaware. Holders of Solyndra’s general unsecured
claims, valued at $50 million to $120 million, are expected to
recover from 2.5 percent to 6 percent, according to a disclosure
statement filed with the plan.  “The plan proposes to fairly and efficiently restructure
the debtors’ liabilities and distribute the debtors’ assets in a
manner that will allow these Chapter 11 cases to be promptly
concluded,” the company said in a filing.  The plan’s sponsors are identified as Argonaut Ventures I
LLC and and Madrone Partners LP. Argonaut Ventures is the
investment arm of billionaire  George Kaiser ’s charitable
organization.  The Fremont, California-based company sought Chapter 11
protection in September 2011 just days before its offices were
raided by the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation seeking
evidence of possible fraud. The company fired more than 1,000
workers.  Energy Department  Solyndra was one of about 40 alternative-energy projects
that received funding from a U.S. Energy Department loan program
that helped companies seeking to generate power through wind,
solar or other forms of renewable energy. Government officials
said they hoped the projects could create more than 50,000 jobs.  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. The company faced criticism from
Republicans in Congress over the federal loan guarantee it used
to build a $733 million factory.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  