-- Syria Pounds Rebels in Aleppo as 200,000 Flee Fighting
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-07-30T05:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/syria-pounds-rebels-in-aleppo-as-un-envoy-urges-change.html
Syrian troops backing President
Bashar al-Assad stepped up their assault on rebels in Aleppo,
prompting U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  to predict that
Assad’s use of “indiscriminate violence” will hasten the
regime’s collapse.  Government forces killed at least 120 people yesterday,
mainly in Aleppo, the nation’s commercial hub, and Damascus, the
capital, according to the Local Coordination Committees, an
activist group. Syrian opposition fighters have seized eight
neighborhoods in Aleppo and the road leading to the Turkish
border, while the army resumed pounding the city with heavy
weapons, according to Al Jazeera television.  About 200,000 people have fled Aleppo and nearby areas in
the past two days,  Valerie Amos , the  United Nations ’ top
humanitarian affairs official, said in a  statement  yesterday.
The security situation in cities and along main transport routes
is making it very difficult for humanitarian agencies to reach
displaced families, she said.  “It’s pretty clear that Aleppo is another tragic example
of the kind of indiscriminate violence that the Assad regime has
committed against its own people,” Panetta told reporters
yesterday on his plane as he began a five-day Mideast trip. “If
they continue this kind of tragic attack on their own people,
it’ll ultimately be a nail in Assad’s coffin.”  Past predictions by U.S. officials that time is running out
for Assad have not yet proven correct, as the regime has fought
to avoid becoming the latest casualty of the Arab Spring revolts
that brought down leaders in Tunisia, Libya and  Egypt .  Regime Thugs  Fierce fighting is taking place near the air force
intelligence headquarters in Aleppo, according to the Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights . Troops also shelled villages in
the eastern province of Deir Ezzor, the central region of Hama
and the coastal region of Lattakia, the group said today.  Syrian troops and thugs loyal to Assad, who are locally
known as shabiha, committed a new massacre yesterday in a
Damascus suburb, Al Jazeera reported, citing Ahmed al-Muathmani,
an activist.  “The government forces and thugs have stormed the area
this morning right after the Syrian rebels left and have
publicly executed 40 people, beheaded a woman” and set houses
on fire, he said according to  Al Jazeera .  Unified Stance  Arab League chief Nabil el-Arabi said that the killing
taking place in  Syria , such as in the city of Aleppo, rises to
the level of  war crimes , the Egyptian state-run Middle East  News
Agency  reported yesterday.  “The key right now is to continue to bring pressure on
Syria, to provide assistance to the opposition and provide
humanitarian aid, and not do anything to show that the
international community is other than unified,” Panetta said.  The U.S. is providing non-lethal aid, such as radios and
medical supplies, to the rebels, while leaving it to some Arab
nations to provide weapons. The Obama administration has said it
does not envision military intervention in Syria.  Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem denounced what he
called interference by the region’s Sunni powers, including
 Qatar ,  Saudi Arabia  and  Turkey . Speaking at a news conference in
Tehran, he accused them of supporting the rebels in cooperation
with  Israel .  Aleppo is shaping up as the biggest test yet of opposition
fighters’ capabilities against the regime’s artillery and air
power. The city is Syria’s commercial capital, with a  population 
the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency estimates at 3 million.  ‘Grave Concerns’  Assad’s fall from power is “just a matter of time,” the
former head of the United Nations’ observer mission said July
27. Still, Major General Robert Mood, the Norwegian who
commanded the UN monitoring mission in Syria for three months,
told a news conference in Oslo the Assad government has the
military resources to sustain its fight for months or even
years.  The U.S. has “grave concerns” about Assad’s actions,
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said last week in
 Washington . The U.S. is alarmed that “we will see a massacre in
Aleppo, and that’s what the regime appears to be lining up
for,” she said.  International and regional efforts have failed to end the
violence in Syria, which began in March 2011 and has left more
than 19,000 people dead, including about 5,000 government
troops, according to the Observatory.  Jordan yesterday opened its first camp for Syrian refugees
in Mafraq governorate near the Syrian border, the state-run
Petra news agency reported.  The Zaatari camp, which is a facility with than 2,000
tents, can initially receive about 9,000 Syrian refugees, it
reported.  About 1,000 to 2,000 Syrians flee to Jordan every day,
Foreign Affairs Minister Nasser Judeh said, according to Petra.
More than 142,000 Syrians fled to Jordan since the unrest began
last year, Judeh said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  