-- China Wins Four Gold Medals to Lead Nations at London Olympics
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-07-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-28/yi-wins-first-london-olympics-gold-phelps-squeaks-into-final.html
China  won four of the 12 gold medals
handed out on the first full day of competition at the  London 
Olympics, including a historic one in men’s swimming.  China got the first gold of the games yesterday when Yi
Siling won the women’s 10-meter air rifle. Sixteen-year-old Ye
Shiwen set a world record in the women’s 400-meter individual
medley swim, and Sun Yang, 20, gave China its first men’s
swimming gold medal in history with an Olympic record in the
400-meter freestyle. Wang Mingjuan won in women’s weightlifting.  The Chinese team also added two bronze medals and stands
atop the total table with six.  Italy  won two golds and is tied
with the U.S. with five medals. Host Britain failed to win any
events, with men’s cycling road-race favorite  Mark Cavendish 
finishing 29th.  “I used this gold medal to finish my dreams,” Sun said.
“This gold medal shows the Chinese people in a positive light.
This was for all my team.”  Italy won the men’s team archery event, four years after
losing the final to South Korea. The U.S. finished second in the
competition, making the final by beating the defending champions.
Italy won 219-218 on Michele Frangilli’s bulls eye on the final
shot.  Elisa Di Francisca then led an Italian sweep in the women’s
individual fencing foil by beating Arianna Errigo 12-11 in
sudden death, while three-time defending champion Valentina Vezzali took the bronze.  ‘A Dream’  “I have been chasing this medal for 16 years and the arrow
at the 10, that was a dream,” Frangilli, 36, told reporters
after winning the event with 29-year-old Marco Galiazzo and
Mauro Nespoli, 24. “I could feel the noise of the crowd and I
didn’t have enough time. I don’t know how I did it, I just
emptied my mind and found the technique.”  Today, women’s cyclists will vie in the road race, and the
gold in women’s team archery will be awarded among 14 medal
events. The women’s finals in the 100-meter butterfly and 400-
meter freestyle swim will be held, and the men will race in the
100-meter breaststroke and 400-meter freestyle relay.  The U.S. got its only gold when  Ryan Lochte  swam away from
14-time Olympic champion  Michael Phelps  to win the 400-meter
individual medley.  Lochte ended Phelps’s attempt to win the same event at
three straight Olympics. Phelps, 27, didn’t even win a medal,
finishing fourth behind  Brazil ’s Thiago Pereira and 17-year-old
Kosuke Hagino of  Japan .  ‘Capable’  “Going into these games I always knew I was capable of
getting the win so I’m happy that I was able to do that,”
Lochte, 27, said.  Lochte beat Pereira, 26, by 3 1/2 seconds in 4 minutes,
5.18 seconds to add the Olympic gold medal to the 400 IM world
title he won last year. Phelps made the final by less than
seven-hundredths of a second in qualifying. He was never a
factor in the final, finishing more than four seconds behind
Lochte.  “I was lucky to get in,” Phelps said. “It was just a
crappy race.”  Ye of China easily won the women’s 400 IM in record time of
4:28.43, beating the mark of 4:29.45 set by  Australia ’s
Stephanie Rice in Beijing four years ago.  China First  Sun beat defending champion Park Tae-Hwan of  South Korea 
and Peter Vanderkaay of the U.S.. Park swam the final after a
protest of his disqualification for a false start in his heat
third morning was upheld by swimming officials.  Australia captured the final gold in the pool by winning
the 400-meter freestyle relay ahead of the Netherlands and the
U.S.  China’s Wang Mingjuan, 26, won the women’s weightlifting
48-kilogram gold medal. In judo,  Russia ’s Arsen Galstyan won the
men’s under-68-kilogram gold medal and Brazil’s Sarah Menezes
took the women’s under 48-kilogram title, while South Korea’s
Jin Jongoh won the men’s 10-meter air pistol event.  Alexandr Vinokurov of  Kazakhstan  won the men’s cycling road
race, beating out a pair of Britons in race favorite Mark Cavendish and Tour de  France  champion Bradley Wiggins.  Vinokurov, 38, outsprinted Colombia’s Rigoberto Uran on the
final straightaway after the pair spent the last several
kilometers on their own. Cavendish finished 29th, 40 seconds off
the pace.  “Most teams seem happy not to win as long as we don’t
win,” Cavendish said to the British Broadcasting Corp. “It
shows how strong we are. We have to take it as a compliment.”  Williams Wins  At the All-England Club, five-time Wimbledon champion
 Serena Williams  of the U.S. beat Jelena Jankovic 6-3, 6-1, to
move to the second round of the tennis event. Men’s No. 1 seed
 Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  defeated Alejandro Falla of
Colombia 6-3, 5-7, 6-3. Former Wimbledon runner-up Tomas Berdych
was upset by Belgium’s Steve Darcis, 6-4, 6-4.  The U.S. women’s basketball team beat Croatia 81-56 for its
34th straight Olympic win. Turkey defeated Angola 72-50, Russia
got past Canada 58-53 and China beat the Czech Republic 66-57.  Megan Rapinoe,  Abby Wambach  and Carli Lloyd scored as the
U.S. beat Colombia 3-0 in women’s soccer, while Britain defeated
Cameroon 3-0 on goals from Casey Stoney, Jill Scott and
Stephanie Hougton. Japan and Sweden tied 0-0, Brazil beat New
Zealand 1-0 and Canada defeated South Africa 3-0. France eased
by North Korea 5-0.  Comcast Corp.’s NBC Universal said 40.7 million U.S.
viewers watched last night’s tape-delay of the opening ceremony,
making it the most-watched Olympic ceremony.  The gain in viewers was about 6 million more than watched
the opening ceremony in Beijing in 2008 and 15 million more than
the 2004 ceremony in  Athens , the network said in an e-mailed
statement. The highest viewership for an opening pageant at the
 Summer Olympics  had been 39.8 million for the 1996 Games in
Atlanta, NBC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 