-- 
Aberdeen Favors Asian Bank Stocks, Company Bonds Amid Crisis

-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-10-18T10:08:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/aberdeen-favors-asian-bank-stocks-company-bonds-amid-crisis-1-.html
Investors should take advantage of
market volatility to buy undervalued Asian bank shares and
corporate bonds, according to  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc. (ADN)   The MSCI Asia Pacific Financials Index has dropped 16
percent since June 30 and the extra yield that investors demand
to hold U.S. dollar-denominated bonds sold by Asian companies
instead of similar-maturity Treasuries has risen 177 basis
points since June 30 to 525 basis points, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show.  Some bank stocks and corporate bonds are undervalued as a
result,  Hugh Young , head of Asian equities at Aberdeen, said at
a media briefing in Hong Kong today. “We’re finding tremendous
opportunities at the company level,” he said.  Volatility gauges surged globally as shares tumbled last
month amid growing concern that a slowing Chinese economy and
worsening European debt crisis will derail global growth.  Hong
Kong ’s HSI Volatility Index jumped 53 percent in September, its
biggest monthly gain in three years. The VIX, as the Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index is known, surged 36
percent last month, while the VSTOXX Index, which measures the
volatility in the euro zone, jumped 31 percent.  Risk Adverse Investors  About $10 trillion was wiped from the value of global
equities in the third quarter. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
fell 2.1 percent yesterday after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s office doused expectations that a solution to the
 Greece ’s debt will be reached at an Oct. 23 summit.  Risk adverse investors should buy Hong Kong and Singapore
bank bonds to manage the volatility,  Anthony Michael , Aberdeen’s
regional head of fixed income, said at the briefing.  “They’re the ones that are going to pay a steady income
stream as a conservative asset class in order to balance out the
volatility from equities and commodities,” he said.  Investment-grade company bonds also represent good value as
relative yields will narrow and high-yield notes present some
attractive opportunities for investors that are prepared to hold
debt for two to three years.  “If you really want to take a walk on the wild side, the
industrial high-yield market is going to be one that you’ll have
a close look at,” said Michael, adding that some of these bonds
are trading at 75 cents on the dollar with an implied yield to
maturity of up to 16 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  