-- 
Access Seeks to Dismiss Madoff Trustee Suit, Cites Mets

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-18T17:17:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/access-seeks-to-dismiss-madoff-trustee-suit-cites-mets-1-.html
Access International Advisors Ltd.,
part of a $185 million lawsuit by the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm, asked a judge to dismiss the case while citing a
ruling that favored the owners of the  New York  Mets.  Trustee Irving Picard last year sued Access International,
whose chief executive officer was Thierry Magon de La Villehuchet, demanding money and fees taken from the Ponzi
scheme. Picard has no right to undo the transfers after U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff ruled that the Mets owners’ payments
from the Madoff brokerage can’t be taken back, Access said in a
court filing yesterday.  “The trustee’s avoidance claims are plainly barred against
Access,” according to the filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
 Manhattan . Payments by a stockbroker “are expressly exempted
from recovery by the settlement payment safe harbor in the
 bankruptcy code ,” Access said.  Rakoff narrowed by two-thirds the $1 billion demanded by
Picard from Mets owners Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz. Access,
saying it was “a Bahamian service provider” that received fees
from a Guernsey fund, Trotanoy Investment Co. -- the main
defendant in the suit -- said Picard also erred in trying to
take back “far removed, foreign incidental service fees.”  De La Villehuchet killed himself in 2008 after potentially
losing all of the money he invested with Madoff. Access, which
managed $3 billion, and its LuxAlpha Sicav unit are defendants
in one of Picard’s suits against  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on Access’s filing.  Picard’s suit is Picard v. Trotanoy Investment Co., 10-
ap-05208,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The district court case is 11-cv-07112, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  