-- 
Ackermann, Dallara in Brussels for European Talks, IIF Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-10-18T15:49:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/ackermann-dallara-in-brussels-for-european-talks-iif-says.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann , who chairs the Institute of
International Finance, is meeting with European officials in
Brussels this week along with IIF Managing Director  Charles Dallara .  Ackermann and Dallara “are in Brussels and continue to be
engaged in discussions with euro-area officials,” IIF spokesman
Frank Vogl said in an e-mail today. Ackermann met with European
Union President Herman Van Rompuy yesterday, Van Rompuy’s office
said.  European Economic and Monetary Affairs Comissioner Olli Rehn said today that bondholders need to play a bigger role in a
second rescue program for Greece than was envisaged in July,
when the EU agreed to broaden the scope of its bailout fund and
work with the IIF on a debt swap and bond buyback program.
Bondholders are under pressure to accept bigger losses and agree
to more generous terms.  “It is clear that the Greek part of the 21 July deal needs
to be revisited, in particular concerning the degree of
participation of the private sector in restoring solvency,”
Rehn said in prepared remarks for a speech today, delivered by
video to a conference in  Portugal . “We need to build a solid
second program, avoiding the continuous current drama.”  European stocks fell for a second day after German
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s office knocked down what it called
“dreams” that an Oct. 23 summit of European leaders will be
the last word in taming the crisis.  Christian Noyer , head of
France’s central bank, ruled out a ramping up of the European
Central Bank’s bond-buying program as part of a multi-pronged
strategy to shield countries like Italy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 