-- 
Maersk Shareholders Suffering With Overwhelming Container Supply: Freight

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-10-19T12:52:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/maersk-shareholders-suffering-with-overwhelming-container-supply-freight.html
The container industry may be facing
half a decade of oversupply that will curb freight rates as
shipping lines launch vessels into a global trade slowdown.  The rise in container capacity will exceed demand by as
much as 10 percentage points over the next three years,
according to Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. That gap won’t
substantially improve for five years, Neil Dekker, head of
container research at Drewry, said in an Oct. 11 interview.
Those estimates assume no slump in world economic output.  Global growth will slow this year as “crisis-hit”
advanced economies struggle and Europe’s debt woes prove
“tenacious,” the  International Monetary Fund  said last month.
An increase in vessels from shipping lines like Copenhagen-based
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S has helped send freight rates plunging
70 percent since a 2010 peak. On its current course the industry
will struggle to turn profitable, said Ross Porter, a Stavanger,
Norway-based fund manager at Skagen A/S.  “The market outlook is pretty bleak,” Porter said in an
interview. The fund, which has $18 billion under management,
owns about 10,000 Maersk shares after cutting its holdings by 20
percent last month. “Given the overcapacity that’s built up in
the market, a few years will be required to consolidate the
situation.”  Capacity in the container market will rise 29 percent in
the three years ending in 2013, according to data from London-
based Drewry’s quarterly Container Forecaster report. Demand
will grow by as little as 19 percent in the period, it said.  No Layups  There won’t be a “major” improvement in the balance
between supply and demand for five years, Dekker said. Ships on
the world’s two busiest trade routes, Asia to Northern  Europe 
and Asia to the Americas, are only about 85 percent full at the
moment, he said.  “Freight rates are very low,” Dekker said. “It would be
logical to lay up vessels, but that’s not really happening.”  The price to transport a full 20-foot container from the
biggest Asian ports to European ones fell to $650 in the first
week of this month, according to Danske Market’s container index
published Oct. 7. That was the lowest spot price in at least two
years and compares with a peak of about $2,100 18 months ago.  The fallout from Europe’s deepening debt crisis is showing
signs of spreading as far as  Asia  as policy makers in the euro
area fail to persuade investors they can avert a Greek default.
Asia faces “severe macroeconomic and financial spillovers”
from deteriorating economic outlooks in Europe and the U.S., the
IMF said Oct. 13.  Shipping Demand  That means container shipping demand could grow even less
than Drewry estimates, Dan Togo Jensen, a transport analyst at
Svenska Handelsbanken AB in Copenhagen, said in an Oct. 13
interview. He has a “reduce” recommendation on Maersk shares.
Jensen is the top-ranking analyst of the 25 covering the
company, according to Bloomberg data.  “Box rates will be under pressure” because the imbalance
between supply and demand will persist “for quite some time,”
he said.  Container lines have booked orders for new ships for a
combined $57 billion, according to an Oct. 11 estimate by Paris-
based industry consultant Alphaliner. Over the next four years,
new ships will add capacity equivalent to 4.5 million standard
20-foot containers, or TEU, versus today’s 15.2 million TEU,
according to Alphaliner.  More Room  Vessels that can haul the equivalent of about 1 million TEU
will need to be idled or laid up, the Baltic and International
Maritime Council, a Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based shipping trade
group, said in an Oct. 13 report.  Ships are being built larger as well. The size of  container
ships  has more than doubled over the past decade. New deliveries
this year on average carry 6,100 TEU, compared with 2,900 TEU in
the year 2000, Alphaliner said in a Sept. 29 report. The size of
the world’s fleet of ships with capacity larger than 8,000 TEU
will increase by more than 20 percent annually over the next
years, outpacing overall supply growth, Drewry says.  The container operations of Maersk, which carries 15.7
percent of the world’s  container capacity  according to
Alphaliner, more than any other, lost $45 million in the second
quarter. It earned $1.1 billion a year earlier, Bloomberg
calculations show. The unit may lose money in the rest of the
year if freight rates don’t recover, the company said Aug. 17.  Dropping Shares  Maersk shares have lost 31 percent this year. The world’s
second and third-largest lines, Geneva-based Mediterranean
Shipping Co. and  France ’s CMA CGM SA, aren’t listed.  Maersk’s bond maturing in 2017 fell for the first day in
five today. The yield gained six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 4.39 percent at 12:41 p.m. London time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 4.375 percent
note, due November 2017, fell 0.30 point, or 3.00 euros per
1,000-euro face amount, to 99.90.  CMA CGM has seen the price of its 8.5 percent notes due
2017 plunge to 43.375 cents on the dollar since they were sold
April 14. The yield on the notes rose as much as 86 basis points
today, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  There are some signs shipping lines may reduce capacity by
canceling or postponing orders for new vessels, Martin Bo Hansen, a corporate bond analyst at Jyske Bank A/S, said in an
Oct. 11 note. Hansen, who’s based in Silkeborg,  Denmark , has a
“hold” rating on Maersk’s debt.  CMA CGM has no plans to order any new container vessels
before next year at the earliest, Chief Executive Officer
Rodolphe Saade said Oct. 11. The line was approached by two
Chinese shipyards about possible orders for vessels larger than
9,000 containers and declined, Saade said.  Thinning Out  Shipping lines are betting demand will catch up with supply
sooner than Drewry’s analysis shows. Eivind Kolding, CEO of
 Maersk Line , said Oct. 5 in an interview broadcast by Danish TV2
News that overcapacity probably will last a year at most. That
will still be long enough to put some smaller container lines
out of business, he said. Maersk hasn’t announced any plans to
cut capacity.  The company declined to comment for this story, in
compliance with a self-imposed silent period ahead of third-
quarter earnings, due to be published on Nov. 9.  Overcapacity may thin out the industry, with only the
biggest companies surviving the pressure on freight rates,
Skagen’s Porter said.  “In the long-term I see Maersk coming out as the relative
winner,” he said. “They have the financial strength to weather
this cycle, which a lot of their competitors don’t.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  