-- 
Agrokor Said to Offer 221 Euros Per Share for Mercator

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-10-18T14:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/agrokor-said-to-offer-221-euros-per-share-for-stake-in-mercator.html
(Corrects regulator’s reason for blocking previous sale
attempt by Lasko in sixth paragraph.)  Agrokor d.d.,  Croatia ’s largest
private company, made a non-binding offer for  Mercator Poslovni
Sistem (MELR)  d.d. that values the Slovenian company at 840 million
euros ($1.15 billion) as it expands further in the Balkans.  Agrokor submitted a bid of 221 euros per share for half of
the Ljubljana-based company to adviser ING Bank NV, said two
people involved in the offer who asked not to be identified
because the bids aren’t public yet. If chosen, Agrokor would
have to extend its offer for the rest of the shares, under
Slovenian law, and may pay as much as 2 billion euros, including
debt assumption, Poslovni Dnevnik  reported .  Agrokor is trying to deepen its reach in other former
Yugoslav republics as competition increases. Brussels-based
 Delhaize Group SA (DELB) , the owner of Food Lion supermarkets in the
U.S., bought  Serbia ’s Delta Maxi Group, the biggest chain in
that country. Agrokor last month asked Slovenia’s competition
protection office to approve its takeover.  “The only question remains the competition regulator,
which may block the sale to Agrokor,” said Radivoj Pregelj, an
analyst at lender Abanka Vipa d.d. said in an e-mailed
statement. ING London spokesman Adrian Simpson wasn’t
immediately available by phone and didn’t reply to e-mail
queries.  Falling Shares  Mercator dropped 4.85 euros, or 2.8 percent, to close at
168.10 euros in Ljubljana after rising the most in seven months
yesterday. The stock advanced 6.6 percent this year, compared
with a 25 percent drop in the benchmark SBITOP index in the same
period.  Slovenia’s Competition  Protection Office  in April blocked
the sale of a 23 percent stake in Mercator to Agrokor that was
being sold by  Pivovarna Lasko (PILR)  Group d.d. in a matter unrelated
to Agrokor’s bid. The ban for Lasko to freely dispose of its
Mercator stake was lifted Oct. 11.  Agrokor last made its bid for Mercator’s stake in February,
along with Warburg Pincus LLC and Mid Europa Partners Ltd. Its
offer was rejected on May 4.  The bid drew a negative watch rating from  Standard & Poor’s 
Rating Services in April, which said Agrokor’s interest in
Mercator may hurt its liquidity. S&P reaffirmed Agrokor with a
‘B’ rating on May 31, saying a danger to the company’s liquidity
is no longer present after its bid expired.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  