-- 
Airbus Says Lack of Loans to Suppliers Threatens Output

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-10-18T12:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/airbus-chief-says-lack-of-loans-to-suppliers-threatens-output.html
Airbus SAS, the world’s largest
planemaker, said its growth and that of competitor  Boeing Co. (BA) 
may be hampered by component suppliers being starved of credit.  Some banks are holding back on lending to reduce risk and
maintain higher reserves, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders 
said today. The lack of credit makes it difficult for smaller
companies with higher-risk profiles to get the extra equipment
and workers to raise output to the levels needed, he said.  “We see some troubling signs of lack of capital,
especially with some of our smaller suppliers,” Enders said at
a conference today. “They’re the ones who get hit first when
banks tighten up their capital.”  Airbus is making heavier demands on suppliers now as it
ramps up monthly production of A320 single-aisle planes from 38
in August to 42 by the second half of 2012. The planemaker is
mulling a further increase to 44 if it can be assured the whole
supply chain can keep up, Enders has said.  For some components, planemakers rely on a single company,
said Enders. If that one supplier is hindered by a lack of
capital, it can have a knock-on effect for an entire aircraft
program, according to the CEO. So far, the risk is
“manageable,” he added.  “At this stage, it’s reason for concern but not for
panic,” Enders said following a speech given at an aircraft
suppliers’ conference in Toulouse today sponsored by SAE
International. “We’re trying to help at Airbus wherever we can
with smaller suppliers so that there’s no disruption to the
supply chain.”  ‘Plug and Play’ Planes  Airbus is also relying on equipment and systems makers to
keep pace as it moves toward production of its A350, a new
widebody, long-range plane that’s set for first delivery to
customers at the end of 2013. Assembly of the first A350 is
scheduled for year-end.  Supply chains could also have to respond if commercial
planemakers in the future move to develop ’’plug and play’’ jets
that would let builders adjust their size and shape to respond
to changing demands, Enders said. The current eight- to 10-year
period needed to develop new planes is far too long for
customers, yet moving more quickly can throw up difficulties
that undermine investor and client confidence, he said.  “Our problem is delivery,” Enders said. “While the world
is fighting off an economic downturn, this industry is leaking
money left, right and center on new programs.”  Ipad in Cockpits  Cost overruns can put off planemakers from embarking on new
projects and that in turn could mean entrants to the market
overtake the established manufacturers “sooner rather than
later,” he said.  Airlines suffer the same budgetary constraints, hampering
the adoption of new technologies, such as the Apple Inc.’s iPad,
according to Enders.  “Today, we’ve reached a point where iPads are changing the
way pilots want to interact with the aircraft,” he said. “But
we don’t have them in the cockpit. So why would they wait a
decade for us to integrate them?”  Enders cited United Airlines Inc. figures that showed an
iPad can save an airline 16 million sheets of paper and more
than 300,000 gallons of fuel a year. There are also new
materials that have yet to be adopted by civil planemakers,
whereas military planes have much more upgradeable platforms
that can adopt the latest technology.  “What about stopping the traditional approach of launching
a series of completely new aircraft, one after the other,”
Enders said in the presentation. “What about switching to a
single aircraft that could rapidly and significantly evolve as
new technology matures and comes on line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  