-- 
Taiwan Bonds Rise, Currency Drops on Regional Slowdown Concern

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-10-18T08:26:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/taiwan-bonds-rise-currency-drops-on-regional-slowdown-concern.html
Taiwan ’s government bonds gained and
the local dollar weakened as investors favored safer assets on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis and a stagnant  U.S. economy  will
restrain growth in Asia’s emerging markets.  The island’s government will report on Oct. 20 that export
orders in September grew at the slowest pace in two years,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Official data released today showed gross domestic
product in  China , Taiwan’s biggest export market, grew at a
slower pace in the third quarter than economists polled by
Bloomberg expected. Overseas investors sold $9.7 billion more
Taiwanese stocks than they bought this year.  “People continue to be worried about how the economic
crisis in Europe and the U.S. will affect Asia,” said  Albert Lee , a Taipei-based fixed-income trader at Cathay United Bank Co.
“If the debt crisis doesn’t get solved as everyone’s hoping,
it’ll send yields even lower.”  The yield on the government’s 2 percent bonds due July 2016
fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.043
percent, prices from Gretai Securities Market show. That’s the
biggest decline for a benchmark five-year security since Sept. 5.  Taiwan’s dollar weakened 0.3 percent to NT$30.201 against
its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It touched
NT$30.018 yesterday, the strongest level since Sept. 21.  The overnight money-market rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, was little changed at 0.394 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  