-- 
Cruden Gets Strength From Fighting Cancer to Pilot All Blacks at World Cup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-19T00:36:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/all-blacks-cruden-gets-strength-from-fighting-cancer-to-reach-rugby-final.html
Aaron Cruden, who wasn’t even born
when New Zealand won the Rugby  World Cup  in 1987, said he isn’t
fazed by having to pilot his country’s bid for a second title in
next weekend’s final against France.  The 22-year-old, who underwent successful treatment after
being diagnosed with testicular cancer in his late teens, was
thrust into the role of first-choice fly-half before the
semifinals after injuries to  Dan Carter  and  Colin Slade . He
helped steer the All Blacks to a 20-6 win over Australia and a
spot in the Oct. 23 title decider at Auckland’s Eden Park.  “I’ve had a few experiences in my life that I’ve been able
to draw strength from and this is going to be another fantastic
experience on Sunday,” Cruden said yesterday at the team hotel.
“It’s something that I dreamt of as a little fella and
something I’m very excited about.”  Cruden wasn’t selected in  New Zealand ’s original 30-man
World Cup squad. He was skateboarding around his hometown and
preparing for a trip to Disneyland when he was called up after
Carter, the record points scorer in elite Test rugby, tore a
groin tendon during kicking practice on Oct. 1  Nine days later Cruden took over as the host nation’s No. 1
playmaker after Slade sustained a similar injury to Carter
during New Zealand’s quarterfinal victory over  Argentina .  After coming off the bench to replace Slade for the final
47 minutes of the 33-10 win over the Pumas, Cruden found himself
starting in the role for only the second time in his eight-Test
career a week later against  Australia .  ‘Special Kid’  “He’s had bigger challenges in his life than this and he’s
been able to bring that courage and ability to handle pressure
through into this role,” All Blacks assistant coach Wayne Smith
said at the news conference. “He’s a pretty special kid.”  With the Wallabies runners targeting his 5-foot-8, 180-
pound frame, Cruden’s defense stood up. He also showed the
“coolness” to kick a 22nd-minute drop goal, according to
Australia’s 1991 World Cup-winning captain Nick Farr-Jones.  “He executed his job very well and, while there were some
expected lapses, his general maturity and calmness was the
standout for me,” Farr-Jones  wrote  in the New Zealand Herald.
“He seemed to thrive on the business of the game, such were the
tactics of his team, and was constantly realigning with his
troops for more thrusts into the Wallaby defensive lines.”  Smith said the 2009 International Rugby Board junior player
of the year had responded positively after being told to improve
aspects of his game following his omission from the All Blacks
squad for the 2010 tour to  Hong Kong  and  Europe .  ‘Big Improvement’  “You’ve seen the difference there particularly in his
ability to kick and to dominate games through kicking,” said
Smith, who will coach Cruden at the Chiefs Super Rugby team
starting next season. “That’s been the big improvement and like
it or not every All Black fly-half needs that ability and he’s
gone and developed that through a lot of hard work.”  Cruden captained New Zealand to the IRB Junior World
Championship title in 2009. He was diagnosed with cancer in
mid-2008, and underwent nine weeks of chemotherapy before being
medically cleared.  Cruden said he’s still got more to learn about the game and
will seek out Carter’s advice before the final against France at
 Eden Park , where the All Blacks are on a 26-match winning run
stretching back to a 23-20 loss to the French in July 1994.  “He sent me a text message before the semifinal wishing me
the best,” Cruden said. “I’ll definitely be going to him and
just asking him what he thinks about certain things this week
and pick his brains so that I can be as well prepared as I can
come kickoff time on Sunday.”  Staying Busy  With All Blacks head coach  Graham Henry  having banned him
from his skateboard since he joined the squad, Cruden said
finding ways to keep busy between now and then will be his first
challenge. The match begins at 9 p.m. local time to suit
European television audiences.  “It’s really important that you build throughout the week
but you’re not sort of over thinking about the game and you
really find time for that balance,” he said.  Top-ranked New Zealand won by 20 points when the teams met
in a Sept. 24 Pool A match, one of two losses for  France  in the
group stage. The French, who were also upset by Tonga, rebounded
to beat England and  Wales  to become the first nation to reach a
World Cup final after two losses. Coach Marc Lievremont today
named an unchanged starting lineup for the third match in a row.  The All Blacks beat France 29-9 at Eden Park 24 years ago
to win rugby’s first World Cup and have lost three semifinals, a
final and a quarterfinal since Cruden was born.  “Hopefully that can change on Sunday,” Cruden said.
“It’s definitely what we’re aiming for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  