-- 
Manchester Utd. Beats Otelul Galati in Champions League; Real Madrid Wins

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-10-18T21:40:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/manchester-utd-beats-otelul-galati-in-champions-league-real-madrid-wins.html
Manchester United  secured its first
win in this season’s Champions League, 2-0 at Otelul Galati,
while Real Madrid continued its perfect start with a 4-0 victory
against Lyon.  Wayne Rooney  got both goals in Bucharest from the penalty
spot as United, a three-time European champion, struggled
against a Romanian team playing its debut season in European
soccer’s elite club competition.  “In a lot of these away games, you have to work hard to
get victory,” United coach Alex Ferguson told Sky Sports.
“They made life difficult for us. I was satisfied with the
result. It was a long night.”  Elsewhere, substitute  Sergio Aguero ’s injury-time goal gave
 Manchester City  a 2-1 win against Villarreal,  Bayern Munich  tied
1-1 at Napoli, while Inter Milan beat Lille 1-0. Ajax won 2-0 at
Dinamo Zagreb, Benfica beat Basle 2-0, and CSKA Moscow defeated
Trabzonspor 3-0.  United played the last 23 minutes yesterday with 10-men
after defender Nemanja Vidic was shown a red card on his first
appearance for the Premier League team since August. Otelul’s
Milan Perendija was dismissed in the 88th minute.  The visitor, entering the match against the group’s bottom
team with draws in its opening two matches, was unable to create
many chances in a scoreless first half.  United had its best chance after 41 minutes, but Michael Carrick fired high over the bar. Earlier, Ioan Filip came close
for Otelul, which has to play its  Champions League  games in
Bucharest as its stadium doesn’t meet the competition’s
standards.  Two Penalties  The breakthrough came on 64 minutes when Sergiu Costin
handled the ball. Rooney sent the goalkeeper the wrong way from
the spot.  Three minutes later, Vidic was sent-off for a foul on
Gabriel Giurgiu, but the Romanians were unable to take
advantage. Milan Perendija was then dismissed after receiving a
second yellow card.  Nani came close to doubling United’s lead as he hit a post
late on, before Rooney secured the win with another penalty in
injury time.  United moves second in Group C on five points, two behind
Benfica -- which won at Basle on goals from Bruno Cesar and
 Oscar Cardozo . Basle has four points, with Otelul without a
point after its third straight defeat.  Real  Madrid  has a maximum nine points in Group D, with
goals from Karim Benzema, Sami Khedira, an own goal by  Hugo
Lloris , and  Sergio Ramos  against Lyon at the Bernabeu.  It is the third straight year Madrid has met Lyon in the
competition, with the Spanish team defeating Lyon in the round
of 16 last time.  In Zagreb, Derk Boerrigter and Christian Eriksen gave Ajax
a win that puts it level with Lyon on four points. Dinamo Zagreb
has yet to earn a point.  Group A  Napoli ended Bayern Munich’s perfect start in Group A, with
a Holger Badstuber own goal canceling out Toni Kroos’s early
opener for the Germans.  In Manchester, Aguero tapped in from close range to give
City its first win. The hosts had rallied from a goal behind at
halftime after trailing in only the third minute to a Cani goal.
Carlos Marchena put the ball into his own net near the start of
the second half.  In Group A, Bayern has seven points, Napoli five, City
four, with Villarreal on zero.  Inter Milan , the 2010 champion, tops Group B after a
Giampaolo Pazzini goal at Lille after 21 minutes. The Italians
have more points from three Champions League games than six
matches in Serie A, in which the team is struggling in 17th
spot.  CSKA won the group’s other game yesterday, with two goals
from Seydou Doumbia and one from Aleksandrs Cauna.  Inter has six points, CSKA and Trabzonspor have four, with
Lille on two.  Among today’s games, Marseille hosts Arsenal, Barcelona
faces Viktoria Plzen, and Valencia is at Bayer Leverkusen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 