-- 
Fat Replaces Oil for F-16s as Biofuels Head to War: Commodities

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-10-18T14:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/animal-fat-replaces-crude-oil-in-f16s-as-biofuels-head-to-war-commodities.html
Biofuels face their biggest test yet
-- whether they can power fighter jets and tanks in battle at
prices the world’s best-funded military can afford.  The U.S.  Air Force  is set to certify all of its 40-plus
aircraft models to burn fuels derived from waste oils and plants
by 2013, three years ahead of target, Air Force Deputy Assistant
Secretary Kevin Geiss said. The Army wants 25 percent of its
energy from renewable sources by 2025. The Navy and Marines aim
to shift half their energy use from oil, gas and coal by 2020.  “Reliance on fossil fuels is simply too much of a
vulnerability for a military organization to have,” U.S. Navy
Secretary Raymond Mabus said in an interview. “We’ve been
certifying aircraft on biofuels. We’re doing solar and wind,
geothermal, hydrothermal, wave, things like that on our bases.”  Yet the U.S., stung by an oil embargo during the 1973 Arab-
Israeli war, won’t deploy biofuels beyond testing until prices
tumble. The Air Force wants them “cost-competitive” with
traditional fuel, for which it pays $8 billion a year. Producers
see it the other way around, saying they need big buyers before
building refineries to help slash costs, according to  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) , which developed a process to make biofuels.  “The first few widgets are always more expensive than the
billionth,” said James Rekoske, vice president of renewable
energy at Honeywell’s UOP unit. “That’s where we’re at.”
Honeywell expects to have delivered about 800,000 gallons of
biojet fuel from 2009 through early 2012.  Rekoske said prices need to dive to $3 to $4 a gallon from
more than $10 now. Refineries, costing about $300 million each,
are “mission critical” and a giant customer like the U.S.
government is necessary to carry production to the next level.  Convincing Bankers  “You can’t take a 10-year contract from an American
airline to the bank and get the financing that you need,”
Rekoske said. “You can if you have a 10-year contract from the
U.S. Navy.”  The military’s drive to cut dependence on oil, coal and gas
goes beyond biofuels. It’s developing wind and solar farms to
power U.S. bases and expanding the use of renewables into combat
zones such as  Afghanistan , where a study last year showed one
Marine is killed or wounded for every 50 fuel and water convoys.  Under a 2005 law,  federal government facilities  must source
at least 5 percent of their electricity from renewable sources
in 2010-2012, and at least 7.5 percent afterward.  President Barack Obama on Aug. 16 announced the Navy and
Departments of Agriculture and Energy would each plow $170
million over three years into the commercial development of
biofuels, with the aim of generating at least as much in private
investment. The Navy aims to ramp up its biofuels use to 3
million gallons in 2016 from 900,000 gallons next year.  ‘Create a Market’  “The U.S. military is by the far the largest user in the
country, so we can create a market for it,” Mabus said. The
Navy is the “guaranteed customer” needed to get the industry
“across the so-called valley of death from a good idea to
commercial scale,” he said.  The armed forces say they’ve been successful testing fuels
produced from sources as diverse as animal fat, frying oils and
camelina, an oil-bearing plant that’s relatively drought- and
freeze-resistant.  Major Aaron Jelinek, the lead solo pilot in the Air Force’s
 Thunderbirds  flight demonstration team, performed aerobatics
including loops, rolls and formation flying at Andrews Air Force
Base in  Maryland  on May 20-21. It was the F-16 fighter jet’s
first flight using a fuel made from the camelina plant.  “I could tell no difference between flying that day when I
had biofuel in my tank versus flying the day before or the day
after,” Jelinek said in an interview. “It was a normal
demonstration, one that we perform at 70 shows during the year
and in many more practices than that, doing the exact same
maneuvers and the exact same show sequence as any other day.”  Green Hornet  The military wants its vehicles, except for the ships that
are nuclear-powered, to be able to use new combustibles, cutting
fossil fuel imports from politically unstable nations.  “We do buy a lot now from countries that we sure wouldn’t
let build our aircraft or ships, but we give them a say in
whether they sail or fly because we buy our fuels from them,”
said Mabus.  The Navy has flown its Green Hornet fighter aircraft at 1.7
times the speed of sound using a biofuel blend and aims to have
certified all of its aircraft for the fuels by year-end.  While the tests were done in the U.S., once certified, the
forces will be able to operate aircraft on biofuels anywhere,
including war zones such as Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya.  “If the fuel is available, whether it’s in Afghanistan or
it’s in  Kentucky , we want to be able to use it,” said Geiss.  The Navy’s fuel bill rose $1 billion this year because of
the conflict that cut off Libyan output, said Mabus.  $8 Billion in Fuel  Volatile prices for oil can hit budgets. At the Navy, which
spends about $4 billion a year on fuels, the energy bill rises
$31 million for every $1 gain in the price of a barrel of oil,
Mabus said. The Air Force has twice the budget.  “When you’ve got a bill of $8 billion, you’re going to
look for opportunities to diversify your options,” said Geiss.  The Army aims to approve biofuels for its aircraft and
ground vehicles, including Humvees, Abrams battle tanks and
Apache helicopters by the end of 2013, a spokesman, Dave Foster,
said in an e-mail.  The  Air Force  certified biofuels for use in F-15s, F-16s
and C-17 cargo planes and they’re set for approval for the whole
fleet by 2013, said Jeff Braun, director of the Alternative
Fuels Certification Office. The force has a 2016 deadline for
being able to get half its needs from 50/50 alternative fuel
blends, equivalent to 400 million gallons of biofuels or other
combustibles, such as synthetic liquid fuels from coal and gas.  Boeing, Lockheed Martin  “We can use an almost unlimited number of feedstocks to
produce these fuels,” said Braun. “From a performance stand-
point you can’t tell the difference whether you’re burning a
camelina blend, a tallow blend, or another fuel that’s made up
of a bunch of waste greases -- fry grease or seasoning grease.”  The Air Force has worked with aircraft makers  Boeing Co. (BA) 
and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and engine-makers Rolls Royce Holdings
Plc,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt
& Whitney in testing the biofuels, said Braun. The fuels used
were made by Honeywell’s UOP, Sustainable Oils Inc. and Dynamic
Fuels LLC, a venture by Springdale, Arkansas-based  Tyson Foods
Inc. (TSN)  and  Syntroleum Corp. (SYNM)  of Tulsa, Oklahoma.  The results of the military tests have been shared with
commercial airlines, many of which have carried out their own
trials -- starting with  Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR)  in December 2008,
and Continental Airlines -- now part of  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  -- and Japan Airlines Co. the following month,
according to Honeywell.  Lufthansa Precedent  The data from military and commercial airlines helped ASTM
International, formerly the American Society for Testing &
Materials, in July approve the fuels for use in commercial
planes, paving the way for  Germany ’s  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,
 Europe ’s second-largest airline, to become the first carrier in
the world to offer regular scheduled flights running on biofuel.  “Lufthansa wouldn’t be flying today if we had not done our
work to enable development of that ASTM standard,” Geiss said.  The next hurdle is for the fuels to be produced
commercially at prices the military would accept.  Honeywell made 800,000 gallons of fuel for the Air Force’s
tests, though it doesn’t aim to produce the fuels commercially.
It plans to license the technique to refiners such as  Valero
Energy Corp. (VLO)  and  Darling International Inc. (DAR) , which are building
a $368 million plant in  Louisiana , Rekoske said. While it’ll be
licensed to make bio-jet fuel, Bill Day, a Valero spokesman,
said the focus will be on making ground transportation fuels.  The renewables effort extends to electricity. To make the
Marines more “combat effective,” they’re pushing the use of
solar power, energy-efficient lighting and batteries, said
Colonel Bob Charette, director of the U.S. Marine Corps
Expeditionary Energy Office.  Saving Marines  Renewable technologies including energy-efficient lighting,
solar blankets and larger solar systems have been distributed to
about half the Marines in Afghanistan. A patrol of as many as 20
Marines this year operated for three weeks using small solar
blankets to re-charge their batteries, according to Charette.  “When you don’t need as much re-supply for fuel, water,
and batteries, you can stay out longer, do the mission at
greater distances and you don’t have your Marines at risk,” he
said. In Sangin district, there are two patrol bases operating
on nothing but solar energy and battery packs, he said.  The Army is seeking a quarter of its domestic electricity
from renewables by 2025, up from 2 percent now, said Jonathan
Powers, director of outreach for the Energy Initiatives Task
Force. The goal is equivalent to an extra 2.1 million megawatt-
hours of renewable energy annually, and will require $7.1
billion of private investment, Powers said.  “The benefit for the private sector is we’re committing to
long-term power-purchase agreements for cost-effective large-
scale renewable energy projects on our bases,” Powers said.
“We’re providing land and demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 