-- 
Apollo Co-Founder Joshua Harris Is Unanimously Approved to Buy NBA’s 76ers

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-10-18T13:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/apollo-co-founder-joshua-harris-is-unanimously-approved-to-buy-nba-s-76ers.html
National Basketball Association
owners unanimously approved the sale of the Philadelphia 76ers
to a group led by Apollo Global Management LLC co-founder  Joshua Harris  and David Blitzer, who moved to  London  from New York in
2002 to create the European office of  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   “Josh and David bring vast business experience that will
greatly benefit the team as it continues to grow both on and off
the court,” NBA Commissioner David Stern said in a statement.  The ownership group also includes actor  Will Smith  and his
wife, Jada Pinkett Smith.  The league didn’t disclose terms of the sale from Comcast-
Spectacor, a unit of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  Harris paid about $280
million, a person familiar with the transaction said on July 7.  The sale doesn’t include the Wells Fargo Center or the
National Hockey League’s Philadelphia Flyers, which Comcast-
Spectacor will retain.  Comcast is the biggest U.S. cable-television operator and
bought a controlling interest in NBC Universal from  General
Electric Co. (GE)  in January.  The NBA and its players are scheduled to meet today in an
effort to reach a new collective bargaining agreement that would
end a lockout that began on July 1.  Stern last week canceled the first two weeks of the regular
season when no agreement was reached. It’s the second time in
league history that regular-season games were lost due to labor
strife.  The 1998-99 lockout resulted in a 50-game season, down from
the usual 82. Stern has said that, if no agreement is reached
this week, games probably would be canceled through Christmas.  Money Issue  Stern has said the league’s 30 teams lost a collective $300
million last season. At issue is how to share about $4.3 billion
in annual revenue.  The 76ers finished 41-41 last season, seventh in the
Eastern Conference.  Harris will be the team’s controlling owner, the NBA said.  He  co-founded  Apollo Management in 1990, and holds a
bachelor’s degree from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton
School of Business and a master’s degree from the Harvard
Business School.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  