-- 
Apple Falls After Wait for IPhone Causes Missed Estimates

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-10-19T20:41:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/apple-s-results-miss-estimates-as-iphone-sales-fall-short-shares-decline.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  fell in U.S. trading
after profit missed analysts’ predictions for the first time in
at least six years, evidence that customers delayed iPhone
purchases before the release of the latest model.  Profit was $6.62 billion, or $7.05 a share in the fiscal
fourth quarter, compared with $4.31 billion, or $4.64 a share, a
year earlier, Cupertino, California-based Apple said yesterday
in a statement. That missed analysts’ predicted profit of $7.31
a share, the first disappointment from Apple in at least 26
quarters.  Apple sold 17.07 million iPhones, less than the 20 million
projected by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, as consumers held
out for the iPhone 4S, released after the close of the period
that ended Sept. 24. The shortfall underscores the growing
importance to Apple for the iPhone, which was introduced in 2007
and accounted for 39 percent of revenue last quarter.  “The market was expecting very strong iPhone sales going
into the product launch,” said  Giri Cherukuri , head trader at
Oakbrook Investments LLC, which holds Apple shares. “It stands
to reason that a lot of people were waiting for the new iPhone
to come out.”  Apple shares fell 5.6 percent to $398.62 at the close in
 New York . The stock has climbed 24 percent this year.  Sales of the smartphone are rebounding this quarter, and
the decline in Apple shares represents a “buying opportunity,”
said Cherukuri, whose firm is based in Lisle,  Illinois .  Steve Jobs   The results were the first announced since the Oct. 5 death
of Apple co-founder Steve Jobs. New Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said the world has lost “a creative genius and an amazing
human being.”  “Steve was a great leader and mentor and inspired everyone
at Apple to do extraordinary things,” Cook said yesterday on a
conference call. “His spirit will forever be the foundation of
Apple, and we are dedicated to continuing the amazing work that
he loved so much.”  Apple said that while iPhone sales fell off last quarter,
the holiday quarter will be its best yet. First-quarter per-
share earnings will be about $9.30 on sales of about $37
billion, Apple said in the statement.  That surpassed analysts’ projections, suggesting that
iPhone sales are bouncing back with the release of the iPhone
4S, which set a record with debut-weekend sales of 4 million.  “In our wildest dreams, we couldn’t have gotten off to as
great a start as we did with the iPhone 4S,” Cook said on the
call. The drop in demand for iPhones in the second half of last
quarter was “substantial,” said Cook.  Smartphone Rivals  The new touchscreen handset is vying with new smartphones
from companies including Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp. (2498) ,
which use Google Inc.’s Android operating system.  Back-to-school shopping helped propel fourth-quarter Mac
sales to a record 4.89 million, above the 4.4 million predicted
by analysts. The lineup of desktop and laptops is gaining share
as demand diminishes for rivals’ personal computers, according
to research firm Gartner Inc.  IPad sales of 11.12 million also set a record, signaling
Apple is fending off competition from companies such as Samsung
and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  that have introduced rival tablets.
Amazon.com Inc. debuts its new Kindle Fire tablet on Nov. 15.
Analysts had predicted iPad sales of 11.5 million.  Apple’s fourth-quarter revenue was $28.3 billion, below the
$29.6 billion predicted by analysts. Missing expectations caught
investors by surprise since the company has so consistently
beaten predictions. During the previous 19 quarters, Apple had
exceeded profit estimates by an average 28 percent, according to
Piper Jaffray Cos.  ‘Clueless’  “Shame on me and other investors who got lulled into
complacency based on how much they’ve beaten estimates in the
past,” said David Rolfe, chief investment officer at Apple
investor Wedgewood Partners Inc.  Apple had said in July that it expected sales and profit to
fall because of changes to its product lineup.  “It’s not the company that missed, it’s the people who
follow Apple that are clueless,” said Trip Chowdhry, an analyst
at Global Equities Research in San Francisco.  Analysts may revisit projections that Apple will continue
to grow at a record rate and exceed estimates, said  Michael Obuchowski , chief investment officer at First Empire Asset
Management.  “That the company can maintain the growth rate that some
of the analysts envision is not very realistic,” he said.
“There will be a reevaluation of the analysts’ expectations.”  China ,  Thailand   Apple added to its balance sheet. Cash and investments now
total $81.6 billion. Asked why the company hasn’t returned some
of that money to shareholders in the form of a dividend or
buyback, Cook said the cash is used for acquisitions, purchasing
components and opening stores.  Still, Cook said he’s “not religious” about holding on to
the money. Whether to return some is a regular discussion among
the company’s board of directors.  Gross profit margin, the percentage of sales left after
deducting production costs, was 40.3 percent last quarter,
compared with 36.9 percent a year earlier, Apple said.  China is becoming an increasingly vital region for Apple,
said Cook, with the area generating $4.5 billion in sales last
quarter. Apple is opening stores, conducting marketing campaigns
and partnering with third-party retail outlets to reach
customers in China, Cook said.  Apple also has seen supply chain snags as a result of
flooding in Thailand, Cook said. The factories affected are
mainly supplying components for the company’s Mac computers, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  