-- 
Harley-Davidson Margin Squeeze Causes Shares to Slide Most Since Aug. 18

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-10-18T20:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/harley-davidson-falls-as-profit-margins-drop-on-lower-priced-motorcycles.html
Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , the biggest
U.S. motorcycle maker, said a complex revamp of the factory that
makes its priciest models cut production of those bikes, which
hurt margins. The stock fell 7 percent.  Harley dropped to $34.59 at the close in  New York , the
biggest drop since Aug. 18, erasing the stock’s gain for the
year.  As part of its shift to a more flexible workforce, Harley
is consolidating its York,  Pennsylvania , factory to one
 production line  from four. Workers moved from other parts of the
factory are being trained on assembly of 20 different models.
That process slowed production of touring and custom bikes,
among Harley’s more expensive and most profitable models.  “Maybe we haven’t done as a good a job communicating the
magnitude of this,” Keith Wandell, Harley’s chief executive
officer, said in an interview. “Shame on us because we had some
issues in the quarter that precluded us from producing as many
touring bikes as we would have like. Are we disappointed?
Absolutely. Are we discouraged? No. Every day, we get further
through.”  Third-quarter gross margin narrowed to 33.7 percent from
34.9 percent a year ago. Sharon Zackfia, an analyst with William
Blair & Co., estimated gross margin of 36.8 percent in the
quarter.  Skewed Sales  Production issues at York increased the mix of Harley’s
cheaper bikes, such as the $8,000 SuperLow. That shift lowered
gross margin by $26.6 million, Harley said in a presentation on
its website.  “Sales skewed more toward the Sportsters, and of all the
possible reasons for a margin decline, mix shift is one of the
more innocuous,” Zackfia said in an interview.  The changes at York will be “largely complete” by the end
of next year, Chief Financial Officer John Olin said in a
conference call today. U.S. output will be limited until the end
of 2013, he added. This quarter’s mix will “improve modestly,”
he said.  Sales increased 13 percent to $1.23 billion, short of the
$1.28 billion average of 13 analysts’ estimates. Harley, which
also produces Fat Boy and V-Rod motorcycles, sells fewer bikes
in the cold-weather months. The company has reported quarterly
losses in each of the last two fourth quarters.  Net income in the three months ended Sept. 25 rose 107
percent to $183.6 million, or 78 cents a share, compared with
$88.8 million, or 38 cents a share, a year earlier, Harley said
today in a statement. The average estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was 75 cents.  Retail sales rose 5.4 percent in the U.S. and 5.1 percent
worldwide, the company said. The worldwide sales gain was the
second consecutive quarter of increasing deliveries. Before the
second quarter, the company last reported an increase in U.S.
sales in the fourth quarter of 2006. The company reaffirmed its
forecast of 228,000 to 235,000 motorcycle shipments this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 