-- 
Harrisburg on Verge of Losing Control of Finances After Vote

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-10-18T19:13:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/harrisburg-on-verge-of-losing-control-of-finances-after-state-senate-vote.html
Pennsylvania moved closer to seizing
control of the finances of its capital, Harrisburg, as its
Senate approved legislation that would make the city the state’s
first to fall into receivership.  In a 37-13 vote, senators today advanced the bill to let
Republican Governor Tom Corbett declare a fiscal emergency and
appoint a receiver empowered to sell municipal assets and
overrule elected officials. The legislation heads to the  House
of Representatives , which passed an earlier version in
September. Corbett has said he will sign it.  A federal judge yesterday scheduled a Nov. 23 hearing on
the validity of a bankruptcy petition filed by Mark D. Schwartz,
a lawyer hired by the Harrisburg City Council. The council
approved the move 4-3 as a bid to ward off the takeover after
skipping payments on debt tied to a trash-to-energy incinerator
project. The state and Mayor  Linda Thompson  have challenged the
filing.  “The preferable course of action would be for the city of
Harrisburg through its elected officials on City Council and the
mayor to work out an appropriate and acceptable pathway to
fiscal solvency,” state Senator Jeffrey E. Piccola, a Dauphin
County Republican who helped draft the legislation, said after
the vote.  He added that under the bill, the city has 30 days, a
“window of opportunity,” to devise a plan before a receiver is
named. The council rejected recovery plans in July and August.  Governor in Charge  The city of 49,500 faces a debt burden five times its
general-fund budget because of an overhaul and expansion of the
incinerator, which doesn’t generate enough revenue to cover the
obligations. Harrisburg guaranteed about $242 million of debt
related to the incinerator, with $65 million of it overdue,
according to the bankruptcy filing.  The Senate legislation would give Corbett control over the
city’s elected officials and let him name a receiver who would
develop a recovery plan.  The manager, paid by the state, would have the power to
implement the steps, such as hiring advisers and suspending the
authority of elected officials who interfere. The receiver
wouldn’t be able to change labor contracts without unions’
agreement.  A receiver may not end the bankruptcy without court
approval, according to Schwartz and lawyers for the mayor.  ‘Moneyed Interests’  Senator John P. Blake, a Democrat from Archbald, said the
bill disregarded democratic principles.  “This legislation is meant to protect moneyed interests at
the expense of local taxpayers under the guise of protecting
public safety,” he told his colleagues after the vote. “I
think it’s an overreach of state government powers.”  Thompson said yesterday that while she opposes losing
fiscal control, she will lobby for greater powers under
receivership. The bill names the mayor as an adviser to the
receiver.  Corbett told reporters before the vote that he has “in
mind some people I want to interview” for the receiver
position. “It’s important that we get this resolved as
expeditiously as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  