-- 
Churchill’s School Taps ‘Nightmare’ Hong Kong Waitlists for Bankers’ Kids

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-10-18T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/harrow-taps-hong-kong-s-nightmare-3-year-school-place-wait.html
Harrow International , an arm of the
439-year-old British school that educated  Winston Churchill ,
will spend as much as HK$1 billion ($129 million) on a campus in
Hong Kong, where school waiting lists are as long as three years.  Harrow will open next September in Hong Kong’s New
Territories with about 700 students, rising eventually to 1,200,
Mark Hensman, director of schools and chief operating officer of
Harrow International Management Services, told Bloomberg
Television.  Annual fees  range from HK$106,600 to HK$145,000,
with capital certificates that give priority for admission
costing HK$3 million, according to Harrow’s website.  The school’s investment is part of an effort by the city to
add 5,000 international places to reduce a deficit that
recruitment firms and companies say is pushing some executives
to relocate to cities such as  Singapore  and Shanghai instead.  “Moving investment banking candidates from  Europe  to  Hong
Kong  is difficult if they have families,” said Simon Roberts,
managing director of London-based executive search firm
Sheffield Haworth, who relocated to Hong Kong in 2009. “Getting
those children into international schools is a nightmare.”  While Hong Kong’s economy has grown 26 percent since 2005
as banks and international companies expand offices in  China ’s
biggest financial center, schools have failed to keep pace with
a record number of applications. In a survey of American Chamber
of Commerce members in May, 63 percent said some executives are
driven away by the lack of student places.  Employment visas for Hong Kong jumped 28 percent last year
from 2009, according to the government. The former British
colony has the highest number of international companies located
in a city, ahead of Singapore,  Tokyo , Shanghai and  New York , a
survey of 280 of the world’s biggest firms by  CB Richard Ellis
Group Inc. (CBG)  shows.  Waiting List  “My friends were telling me to apply for schools even
before I got here,” said Carolina Ferro, 25, a Brazilian whose
three-year-old son is number 143 on a waiting list for a primary
school in Discovery Bay on Hong Kong’s  Lantau Island .  The government  allocated sites  in 2009 for four
international schools, including Harrow, a second campus for
British-style Kellett School, Hong Kong Academy, and Christian
Alliance International School. Others are building more
facilities on existing locations, the education bureau said in
an e-mail.  “In terms of the admissions we’re receiving, there’s
definitely a shortage,” Harrow’s Hensman said.  Nehru and Byron  The London-based school, which only admits boys, counts
among its former pupils  Jawaharlal Nehru ,  India ’s first prime
minister, seven British prime ministers including Churchill, and
poets including  Lord Byron . Harrow International, a franchisee,
manages campuses in Beijing and Bangkok that also admit girls.  Private schools in Hong Kong, which has a resident
population of 7 million, charge annual fees ranging from
HK$66,500 to HK$195,500. The city has 48 international schools,
offering about 36,000 places, according to the Education Bureau.  Singapore, with a population of 4.8 million, has 31
international schools, said Karen Au-Yong, spokeswoman for The
Council for Private Education, the body that regulates the
industry. She declined to give the number of places.  The Hong Kong International School said demand for places
this year is the highest since it was founded in 1966. At
 Kellett , which is spending HK$650 million on expansion, the
waitlist extends to 1,000 children and as long as three years,
Principal Ann McDonald said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Soaring Applications  The English Schools Foundation, set up to educate children
of British civil servants when Hong Kong was a colony, saw a
16.5 percent gain in applications to a record this year, said
Jonathan Straker, head of student support. The foundation runs
21 schools, some of which are publicly subsidized.  “Even large organizations have difficulties getting their
employees’ children into schools,” said  Nick Lambe , managing
director at recruitment firm Morgan McKinley Hong Kong. “Spaces
are extremely limited as a result of talented professionals
being increasingly attracted to Hong Kong,”  The shortfall is worst at primary schools because more
younger executives are relocating to the city, said Rob Chipman,
chairman of the local American Chamber of Commerce and chief
executive officer of relocation services firm  Asian Tigers  Hong
Kong. The average age of workers moving through his company is
39-years-old, five years younger than in 2005, he said.  “This has reached a point where it is critical,” Chipman
said. “If you can’t get the kids in schools, you don’t come
here. You go to Singapore,  Shanghai  or somewhere else.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Lui at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tan Hwee Ann in Hong Kong at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  