-- 
Asian Stocks Drop Most in Two Weeks on Europe Debt, Slower Chinese Growth

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-10-18T10:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/asian-stocks-drop-most-in-two-weeks-as-germany-dashes-europe-debt-optimism.html
Asian stocks fell, driving the
regional benchmark index toward its biggest drop in two weeks,
as China said its economy grew at the slowest pace in two years,
feeding global growth concerns after  Germany  damped expectations
of a fast resolution to Europe’s debt crisis.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest producer
of the metal slumped 11 percent in  Hong Kong , while  Rio Tinto 
Group extended losses to close down 5.3 percent in Sydney as
commodity prices slumped. Esprit Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-
listed clothing retailer that gets 83 percent of its revenue
from Europe, plunged 6.4 percent in Hong Kong. Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc.,  Japan ’s biggest lender, lost 1.8 percent
in  Tokyo  after U.S. banks Citigroup Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co .
said quarterly revenue dropped.  “The China growth figure fell short of expectations,” Chu
Moon Sung, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co., which oversees $29 billion. That, combined
with “concern that it may have been too rosy to expect a quick
fix to  Europe ’s debt crisis, is boosting the market’s
volatility,” he said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 2.4 percent to 116.42 as
of 6:52 p.m. in Tokyo, on course for the biggest drop since Oct.
3. About 10 stocks declined for each that advanced after Steffen
Seibert, spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , said an
Oct. 23 summit of European leaders won’t provide a quick end to
the region’s debt crisis.  “The implied lack of urgency by European policy makers
will create additional uncertainty regarding a robust, all-
encompassing solution to Europe’s growing list of problems,”
said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne . “Increased uncertainty will
feed through to investor nervousness and is likely to see risk
reduced by investors as they move to lock in gains from the past
couple of weeks.”  Growth Slows  The Asia-Pacific measure deepened declines today after a
report showed  China ’s economy grew 9.1 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009, as the
central bank tightened monetary policy and export demand
weakened. Policy makers have raised  interest rates  five times
over the past year, curbed lending and imposed limits on home
purchases to rein in property and consumer prices.  “Some investors probably like to see better headline
numbers, but it’s just unrealistic to expect China to grow
double-digit,” said Diane Lin, a Sydney-based Pengana fund
manager.  All 10 industry groups on the Asia-Pacific stock gauge
retreated today, led by raw-material and financial stocks. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 3.4 percent last week after
Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  pledged to deliver a
plan to recapitalize Europe’s banks and address  Greece ’s debt
crisis.  ‘Complex Issue’  “The reality is that we’re dealing with a complex issue
that has a lot of stakeholders involved and can’t be resolved
overnight,” said Matt Riordan, who helps manage close to $6.6
billion in Sydney at Paradice Investment Management Pty.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.6 percent today.
The value of shares traded on the first section of the Tokyo
Stock Exchange fell to 1.17 trillion yen ($15.2 billion), the
lowest level since December 28, 2010. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index lost 2.1 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index declined 1.4
percent, while China’s Shanghai Composite Index slid 2.3
percent.  China Stocks Tumble  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slumped 4.2 percent, led by
China-related stocks. Aluminum Corp. dropped 11 percent to
HK$3.72, while China Coal Energy Co. slumped 6.2 percent to
HK$8.05. China Merchants Holdings (International) Co., which
operates container terminals, lost 7.5 percent to HK$21.70 and
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s largest
lender by market value, dropped 6.1 percent to HK$4.04.  Financial stocks were the biggest drag on the Asia-Pacific
gauge today.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 2.1 percent yesterday
after Group of 20 finance chiefs meeting in Paris endorsed parts
of a plan to contain Europe’s debt crisis. Optimism the region’s
officials were developing a plan to help banks weather losses on
sovereign debt also fueled gains last week in stocks and the
euro.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. The gauge itself retreated 1.9 percent in  New York 
yesterday after Germany said European Union leaders won’t
provide a complete fix to the euro-area debt crisis. The  S&P 500 
rose 6 percent last week.  Heavy Selling  Germany “doused expectations there would be a definitive
solution at this weekend’s European summit,” said Cameron Peacock, a market analyst at IG Markets in Melbourne. “So
anticipated and hoped for has been this solution that any
disappointments, setbacks during this current ‘gestation period’
are going to be met with heavy selling.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company,
slipped 3.3 percent to A$36.40 in Sydney. Rio Tinto, which makes
more than 40 percent of revenue from China and Europe,  slid 5.3
percent to A$66.25. Korea Zinc Co., which also produces gold and
silver, fell 3.6 percent to 311,500 won. Mitsubishi Corp., a
Japanese commodities trading company, retreated 2.5 percent to
1,574 yen in Tokyo.  New York-traded copper futures dropped 0.9 percent
yesterday, while the London Metal Exchange Index of prices for
six metals including copper and aluminum slipped 0.6 percent.
Crude oil futures in New York slid 0.5 percent. Oil fell as much
as 0.5 percent today, and copper futures declined as much as 1.9
percent.  Sony, HSBC  Esprit Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-listed clothing retailer
that gets 83 percent of its revenue from Europe, plunged 6.4
percent to HK$11.72 in Hong Kong. Sony Corp., which gets about
70 percent of its revenue overseas, dropped 1.2 percent to 1,588
yen in Tokyo. Nissan Motor Co., a carmaker that gets about 80
percent of its sales from overseas, fell 1.7 percent to 716 yen.  Non-Chinese lenders also slumped. Mitsubishi UFJ declined
1.8 percent to 335 yen in Tokyo, while, in Sydney, National
Australia Bank Ltd. slid 2.1 percent to A$24.23.  HSBC Holdings
Plc (5) , Europe’s biggest lender, lost 3.2 percent to HK$62.85 in
Hong Kong.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 13 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 4.5 percent loss by the S&P
500 and a 14 percent decline by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.1 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12 times for the S&P 500 and
10.1 times for the Stoxx 600.  The German spokesman’s comments are “another indication of
the political obstacles to forging a workable solution for the
eurozone,” said Ric Spooner, chief market analyst at CMC
Markets in Sydney. “Investors have been reminded of the need
for caution until details of any proposal are formally released
and agreed on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  