-- 
Asia Family Offices to Triple as Millionaire Ranks Swell, Citigroup Says

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-10-19T01:24:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/asia-family-offices-to-triple-outpacing-world-citigroup-says.html
The number of family offices, which
manage investments and personal needs for wealthy families, is
set to triple in Asia within the next decade, outpacing growth
in other regions, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   There are likely to be 1,500 family offices within the next
7 to 10 years, from 500, which include those in the process of
being set up, said Richard Straus, Asia-Pacific head of global
family office and institutions at Citigroup’s private-banking
unit. Worldwide, there are about 6,000 family offices, whose
tasks may include estate planning, philanthropy and lifestyle
management such as maintaining homes and yachts, he said.  “Considering the amount of wealth in Asia, the region is
very much underrepresented in terms of the number of family
offices, so we see Asia as having the largest potential for
growth,” Straus, who is based in  Hong Kong , said in an
interview in  Singapore .  Wealth in Asia, excluding  Japan , is expected to rise at
about double the global rate of almost 6 percent through the
next five years, the Boston Consulting Group said in a May 31
report. Asia’s ranks of ultra-high-net-worth individuals,
defined as those with $30 million or more of investable assets,
increased 15 percent in 2010, faster than millionaires with at
least $1 million of investable assets, according to a report by
Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management.  First Generation  Families with a net worth of $100 million are in the best
position to set up a family office because of the costs involved
in running it, Straus said. His team works with family offices
to provide services that range from trust and estate planning
from Citigroup’s private banking unit to corporate finance
advice from the bank.  The first family office was established in the U.S. by oil
baron  John D. Rockefeller  in 1882 to manage his family’s assets.  Much of the wealth in Asia was created after World War II
and many of these ageing entrepreneurs now need to decide on how
to pass on their business and financial assets to the next
generation, Straus said. In many countries in Asia, family
businesses are still being run by the first generation of
entrepreneurs, he said.  “However, many of these first generation entrepreneurs
outside  China  are now in their 70s and 80s and many of them have
children who are getting involved in the business,” Straus said.
“It’s a very interesting phase in terms of the maturity of the
wealth.”  Millionaire Population  Family offices from the U.S., and western and central
 Europe  are keen to set up shop in Asia, particularly in
Singapore, Straus said.  Singapore will become the world’s top wealth management
center by 2013, overtaking  Switzerland  and  London , according to
a PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP study published in June. The city-
state will leapfrog both European centers in the next two years,
with Hong Kong taking third spot behind Switzerland and ahead of
London, PwC said in the report.  “In the past two years, I’ve spoken with dozens of
European and North American family offices who have set up or
are seriously considering of setting up family offices here,”
Straus said.  Singapore’s millionaire population expanded at the fastest
pace last year, rising by almost 33 percent, the  Boston
Consulting Group  said in its report. Singapore also had the
highest proportion of millionaire households at 15.5 percent,
followed by Switzerland and Qatar.  More Asian Investments  Family offices that have set up units in Singapore include
Tano Capital, the financial adviser of the founders of Franklin
Templeton Investments, and London-based Alta Advisers Ltd., the
family office of Swedish billionaire Hans Rausing.  About 62 percent of U.S.-based family offices surveyed this
year said they were considering increasing allocations to Asian
markets outside Japan, according to Family Office Exchange. The
median family office reported 12 percent annual pretax portfolio
return in 2010 and families are expecting a median return of 8
percent this year, according to the Chicago-based organization,
which represents 350 families worldwide.  New York-based Citigroup was the No. 2 manager of wealth
for high-net-worth individuals in the Asia-Pacific region,
according to Private Banker International. The private-banking
unit set up its family office advisory business in  Asia  in late
2010, Straus said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  