-- 
U.S. Justice Department Said to Hire Lawyer for AT&T Trial

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-10-18T19:38:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/at-t-merger-suit-said-to-spur-u-s-to-hire-outside-lawyer-for-future-trial.html
The U.S. Justice Department is
bringing in an outside trial lawyer for its lawsuit against  AT&T
Inc. (T) ’s acquisition of T-Mobile USA Inc., according to two people
familiar with the matter.  The department’s antitrust division is hiring Los Angeles-
based lawyer Glenn Pomerantz, a partner at Munger, Tolles &
Olson LLP, to bolster its trial team and work with the
division’s chief litigator, Deputy Assistant U.S. Attorney
General Joseph Wayland, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the process of getting Pomerantz on board
isn’t final.  Enlisting Pomerantz in the case shows that the Justice
Department is preparing for trial and not in the process of
negotiating a settlement, said Bert Foer, president of the
American Antitrust Institute in Washington.  “This is going to be a very large case that requires
additional resources,” Foer said.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the  Justice Department ,
declined to comment on the move. Pomerantz didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails and phone calls seeking comment, while AT&T
spokesman Michael Balmoris declined to comment.  Adding outside expertise in specific cases isn’t uncommon
for the Justice Department and other federal agencies, said
Andrew Gavil, a professor at Howard University School of Law in
Washington.  FCC Review  In May, the Federal Communications Commission asked a
former Justice Department attorney, Renata Hesse, to oversee its
review of AT&T’s proposed $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile.
Hesse was working with Wilson, Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati in
Washington at the time.  The most widely known use of an outsider by Justice
Department may be its hiring of  David Boies  in 1998 to spearhead
the antitrust case against Microsoft Corp., Gavil said.  “What you’re seeing is a recognition by these agencies
that this is a very significant case,” said Gavil, who teaches
antitrust law. “They are pulling in some players to round out
the depth of the team as they go in. It’s difficult to maintain
a full team when you don’t try cases like this very often.”  The FCC is continuing its review of the transaction, which
the Justice Department sued to block on Aug. 31.  Pomerantz, who works primarily with media and entertainment
companies, according to a biography posted on the Munger, Tolles
& Olson  website , was sought out for his antitrust litigation
experience, one of the people said. He will support Wayland, who
will lead the trial team, another person said.  ‘Major Television Programmer’  Pomerantz won a dismissal of a federal antitrust case
against a “major television programmer” in Los Angeles federal
court that was upheld on appeal by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 San Francisco , according to his Munger, Tolles profile.  He was named among the top 40 entertainment lawyers by the
Los Angeles Business Journal in its 2010 “Who’s Who in L.A.
Law,” according to the profile, for winning a preliminary
injunction forbidding software maker RealNetworks Inc. from
distributing products that copy DVDs. He led a team representing
six major motion picture studios in the case.  Following the preliminary injunction, RealNetworks settled
with the studios by agreeing to a permanent injunction and
reimbursement of the studios’ attorney fees.  Record Company  Pomerantz also defended a record company in a class action
in  New York  federal court alleging price-fixing of digital
downloads, among other cases listed on the law firm profile.  He was also the lead lawyer for the  music industry  in its
successful suit against Internet site Lime Wire LLC in New York.
Last year, the judge in the case ruled in summary judgment that
Lime Wire infringed music copyrights. Lime Wire agreed to settle
for $105 million while a jury was hearing the case for damages
this year.  Gavil said the AT&T trial, which is slated to start Feb.
13, is going to be “complicated, with a lot of evidence
specific to a regulatory field.”  The second hearing in the case is scheduled Oct. 24 before
U.S. District Judge Ellen S. Huvelle in Washington.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  