-- 
Tata Consultancy to Shift Hiring Away From Mumbai as Employee Costs Surge

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-10-19T07:15:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/tata-consultancy-shifts-hiring-away-from-mumbai-as-employee-costs-surges.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 Asia ’s biggest employer of software developers, will shift
hiring to low-cost cities in  India  as it struggles to maintain
profitability amid spiraling labor costs.  The company, based in Mumbai, is building campuses and
adding workers in cities including Ahmedabad, Pune, Bhubaneswar,
Nagpur, Indore and Cochin, Chief Financial Officer S. Mahalingam
said in an interview. The company’s shares plunged the most in
more than two years yesterday after earnings missed analysts’
estimates amid rising costs.  Employee costs at Tata Consultancy, which spent $2.8
billion on salaries in the year ending March, rose 27 percent
last quarter exceeding the 15 percent increase in profit. While
expanding in cheaper cities will help reduce costs, lack of
infrastructure and quality of employees may create new
challenges, according to Vihang Naik, an analyst at MF Global
Sify Securities Pvt.  “The biggest campuses that we’re building now are in Pune
and Ahmedabad,” Mahalingam said in  Mumbai  yesterday. “At the
same time time we are putting pressure on the system, the
government to upgrade the infrastructure in these places.”  Tata Consultancy gained 1.3 percent to 1,046.7 rupees at
12:30 p.m. in Mumbai after plunging 7.7 percent yesterday after
profit missed analysts’ estimates by 3 percent. The company’s
operating margin narrowed by 1 percentage point in the three
months ended Sept. 30.  ‘Hardly Have a Choice’  India’s inflation exceeded 9 percent for a 10th straight
month in September, reducing room for the central bank to pause
its record interest rate increases and maintaining pressure on
wages. Salaries in India are set to rise the most in the Asia-
Pacific region this year, according to an Aon Hewitt LLC survey
released on March 8.  Wages are likely to rise an average 12.9 percent in 2011,
compared with 11.7 percent last year, according to the survey of
531 organizations from 18 primary industry sectors in December
and January. Chinese salaries may rise 9 percent, while those in
the Philippines 7 percent, Aon Hewitt said.  Tata Consultancy and other Indian software developers
“hardly have a choice in terms of this expansion,” Naik said.
“It has to happen in smaller towns.”  Second-tier cities like Jaipur and Ahmedabad have operating
costs that are 20 percent to 30 percent lower than established
technology hubs like Bangalore, according to a May report from
Everest Group, a Dallas-based firm that advises companies on
outsourcing strategies.  Labor Pool  Tata Consultancy, which has 20,000 workers and 17 offices
in Mumbai, will increase its workforce in Ahmedabad to 12,000
from 2,000, and add to its “small presence” in Pune with a new
facility that can hold 17,000 workers, Mahalingam said. The
centers will offer a range of services including business
process outsourcing and  call centers , software and application
development and infrastructure management, he said.  The challenges of expanding to small cities include poor
infrastructure, unreliable power supply, poor English
proficiency and a lower-quality labor pool, according to Everest
Group.  “Infrastructure will be a very major challenge,”
Mahalingam said. “If I have a choice of only two airlines to go
to Bhubaneswar from Delhi, I think that’s going to put a
phenomenal amount of pressure.”  Tata Consultancy will only expand into tier-two cities that
have adequate engineering graduates, Mahalingam said.  “We have chosen places where there is talent,” he said.
“We are not going to any place where we’re not in an active
program of recruitment from colleges.”  Tata Consultancy is on track to add a gross 60,000 workers
in the year ending March 2012, Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  