-- 
Tata Consultancy Declines Most in 2 Years as Net Trails Analyst Estimates

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-10-18T11:58:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/tata-consultancy-declines-most-in-year-as-profit-trails-analyst-estimates.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) 
declined the most in more than two years in Mumbai trading after
India’s largest software exporter posted profit that missed
analyst estimates for the first time in 10 quarters.  Net income rose 15 percent to 24.4 billion rupees ($497
million) in the three months ended Sept. 30, Mumbai-based Tata
Consultancy said in a statement yesterday. Profit trailed the
25.2 billion rupees median of 28 analysts’ estimates, the first
time since the quarter ended March 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tata Consultancy Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran
said there was a lot of “negativism” among clients amid
economic uncertainty. The recovery in the U.S. still faces “a
lot of headwinds” from the sovereign-debt crisis in the  euro
zone  to political gridlock over the budget in the world’s
largest economy, according to Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
economist  Chris Rupkey .  “The recent European turmoil had moderated expectations
substantially and TCS missed even those moderated
expectations,” Nimish Joshi, an analyst at CLSA Ltd. in Mumbai,
wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “Simply put these numbers
are not good enough given TCS management’s super-bullish
commentary,” wrote Joshi, who rates the stock “underperform.”  Shares of Tata Consultancy slumped 7.7 percent, the most
since May 2009, at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The stock was
the worst performer today on the 30-company benchmark Sensitive
Index, which slid 1.6 percent. Infosys Ltd.,  India ’s second-
largest software company, declined 1.6 percent.  ‘Not Been Met’  “Obviously, when the stock price comes down, expectations
have not been met,” Chief Financial Officer S. Mahalingam said
today. “The problem is when the market expects 8 percent as
opposed to 6 percent -- there could be a mismatch. Fundamentally,
I don’t see a problem with the momentum, or TCS’s capability to
deliver.”  Revenue rose 25 percent to 116.3 billion rupees, from 92.9
billion rupees a year earlier. The median of 35 analysts’
estimates was 117 billion rupees.  The macroeconomic situation in  Europe  is “worrisome,”
Chandrasekaran said at a briefing in Mumbai yesterday. Still,
“we are getting positive vibes from customers in terms of their
IT spends going forward,” he said.  The deal pipeline in Europe was still “strong” and the
company was currently pursuing two to three telecommunications
contracts, Chandrasekaran said yesterday.  Tata Consultancy, which provides computer services and back
office support to companies including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
Volkswagen AG,  derived  53 percent of its first-quarter revenue
from companies in  North America , 15 percent from the U.K., and
9.9 percent from continental Europe.  ‘Not as Bright’  Worldwide spending on technology goods and services by
businesses and governments, which includes computer equipment
and outsourcing, will grow 5.5 percent in 2012 to $2.15 trillion,
slowing from an estimated 11.5 percent this year, according to a
Sept. 16 report from Forrester Research Inc.  The outlook for demand in 2012 is “not as bright,” as
weak economic growth in the U.S. and Europe will make business
and governments more cautious about investing in technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Forrester said.  Infosys Chief Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal last week
said customers were delaying decisions on projects.  “IT spending reacts with a lag to macroeconomic headwinds
and tailwinds, and to that extent we will see slightly weaker
demand starting the next quarter,” said Hitesh Shah, vice
president of research at IDFC Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.  Volume Growth  Tata Consultancy added 35 clients during the quarter, for a
total of 1,010 active customers. The company had a 6.2 percent
increase in volume in the three months ended Sept. 30 from the
previous period. Volume at Infosys grew 4.5 percent, Chief
Financial Officer V. Balakrishnan said Oct. 12.  Information-technology services companies define volume as
the number of man-months workers spend on projects for clients.  Infosys shares rose the most in more than two years in
Mumbai on Oct. 12, after the Bangalore-based software-services
provider raised its full-year sales guidance and posted earnings
that beat analyst expectations for the first time in a year.
Infosys projected sales in the year to March to range between
335 billion rupees and 340.9 billion rupees.  Tata Consultancy added a net 12,580 employees during the
quarter, for a total of 214,770, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  