-- 
Hatch Urges Obama to Drop Plan to Cap Charitable Deductions

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-10-18T16:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/hatch-urges-obama-to-drop-plan-to-limit-charitable-deductions.html
Limiting  tax deductions  for
charitable contributions would undermine churches and other
nonprofit community groups, Utah Senator  Orrin Hatch  said at a
Senate Finance Committee hearing today.  Hatch urged the Obama administration to back away from a
proposal to cap at 28 percent itemized deductions, including the
one for charitable contributions, for individuals earning more
than $200,000 a year and married couples earning more than
$250,000. Such deductions now are capped at the top marginal tax
rate of 35 percent.  “I am deeply concerned that the current deduction for
charitable giving is under quiet assault,” said Hatch, the
panel’s top Republican, at a hearing examining possible changes
to the tax treatment of charities.  The proposal for the 28 percent cap on deductions for high
earners was included in President Barack Obama’s $447 billion
jobs package unveiled last month.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and the Finance
Committee’s chairman, said taxpayers at varying income levels
tend to give to different types of charities. Higher-income
households contribute more often to health causes, he said,
while lower-income families tend to give more to religious or
basic-needs charities.  Variance in ‘Subsidies’  “This results in the  tax code  giving large subsidies to
some charities and smaller subsidies to others,” Baucus said.
He did not offer an opinion on the Obama administration’s
proposal.  Baucus said about 27 percent of U.S. filers claimed a
charitable contribution deduction on their tax returns last
year.  Dallin H. Oaks , a member of the governing body of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in  Salt Lake City ,
told the panel that the deduction is built into the financing of
charities, which are responsible for millions of jobs. He said
he opposed limiting the deduction.  “I speak of private educational institutions, hospitals,
social welfare agencies and innumerable other organizations
ministering to the needs of children, youth, the aged, the poor
and citizens generally,” Oaks said.  Decline in Donations  Brian Gallagher, president and chief executive officer of
Alexandria, Virginia-based United Way Worldwide, said limiting
the deductibility of donations for the highest earners would
lead to a decline in contributions by the 26,000 people who
annually give $10,000 or more to United Way in the U.S.  Gallagher said a survey of those donors indicated that
“any change to that would have a major impact on their
giving.”  At current levels of contributions, the deduction for
charitable donations would cost the government about $230
billion in forgone revenue between 2010 and 2014, according to
the  Joint Committee on Taxation .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  