-- 
Australia’s Dollar Rallies on Chinese Growth Prospects, Equity Advances

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-10-18T15:35:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/australia-s-dollar-rallies-on-china-growth-prospects-stocks-make-gains.html
The Australian dollar rose after a
report showed economic growth in  China ,  Australia ’s biggest
trading partner, exceeded 9 percent for a ninth quarter.  Australia’s currency advanced against most of its major
peers as other data showed that China’s industrial production in
September expanded at a faster pace than economists had
forecast.  New Zealand ’s dollar’s losses were limited as global
stocks pared declines.  “People have been talking about a slowdown in China for a
long time, or hard landing,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist
in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
interdealer broker. The Chinese data was “quite solid. This is
good for risk assets,” such as the Australian dollar, he said.  The Aussie rose 0.3 percent to $1.0185 at 11:34 a.m. in  New
York . The currency climbed 0.2 percent to 78.19 yen.  The  New Zealand dollar , which lost 1.7 percent yesterday,
was little changed at 79.07 U.S. cents after adding as much as
0.4 percent. It bought 60.70 yen.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent after
earlier falling 0.8 percent. The MSCI World Index was 0.5
percent lower after declining 1.4 percent.  China’s economy  grew 9.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier and follows a 9.5 percent gain in the previous
three months. The median estimate was 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. Industrial production rose 13.8
percent in September from a year earlier, exceeding economists’
forecast for a 13.4 percent increase. The Chinese statistics
bureau released the data in Beijing today.  Central Banking  Traders added to bets the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will
cut its 4.75 percent cash-rate target by the end of this year as
minutes of the central bank’s Oct. 4 meeting released today said
inflation outlook was “less concerning.”  “It was likely that growth over the forecast period would
be somewhat slower and that the labor market would be less tight
than forecast,” the RBA minutes showed. Lower inflation “would
increase the scope for monetary policy to provide some support
to demand,” policy makers said.  New Zealand’s dollar strengthened earlier after Reserve
Bank of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard said reconstruction
after earthquakes in Christchurch will boost economic growth and
inflation pressures for at least five years, removing the need
for monetary stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  