-- 
Australia’s ‘Aces Up Its Sleeve’ to Cushion Slump, Deloitte Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-18T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/australia-s-aces-up-its-sleeve-to-cushion-slump-deloitte-says.html
Australia ’s rebounding coal exports
and resource investment should help shield the economy from
global growth risks emanating from from the U.S. and Europe,
Deloitte Access Economics said.  Australia “has two big aces up its sleeve,” the Canberra-
based economic advisory company said in a report today. “There
is still a lot of recovery to come from the floods and cyclones
of early 2011 -- coal exports will jump through to early 2012,
providing a large one-off boost to growth. More importantly,
growth this financial year and next relies mostly on the capital
expenditures of miners.”  The government estimates Australia’s pipeline of resource
investment at A$430 billion ($438 billion), with about 40
percent of plans already at an advanced stage. The  Reserve Bank 
said in minutes of its October monetary policy meeting released
yesterday that the value of liquefied natural gas projects
announced so far in Australia is about A$70 billion.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept the overnight cash rate
target unchanged at 4.75 percent on Oct. 4, extending an
interest-rate pause to 11 months, as employment growth slowed
and global risks increased. The weaker outlook and declining
confidence reflect an unresolved European sovereign-debt crisis
and a tumble in shares that erased $10 trillion worth of
equities worldwide last quarter.  ‘Bad News’  “Although there is a lot of bad news around, the key bit
of good news -- the impact of China on mining capex -- remains a
thing of beauty,” Deloitte Access said in the report. “The
rest of the economy could pack up and go home and the announced
capex pipeline could still keep growth going for the better part
of a year.”  Gross domestic product in  China  grew 9.1 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009,
the government statistics bureau said yesterday in Beijing. The
expansion was less than the median estimate of 9.3 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists and follows a 9.5 percent
gain in the previous three months.  China is unlikely to have a “hard landing” and its
economy may be resilient enough to withstand international
financial turmoil, Secretary to the Australian Treasury Martin Parkinson said.  “Domestic demand continues to grow strongly and China has
much policy space should there be a major slowdown in global
growth,” Parkinson said in a speech yesterday. “In the long
term we are optimistic about the potential drivers of strong
growth in China, given the large scope for urbanization and
industrialization.”  The Deloitte Access report said that that while  Europe ’s
financial markets “are a ticking time bomb,” Australia’s
economy may be insulated.  “Europe is ablaze with risks, but -- strikingly -- spot
iron-ore prices have held up in recent months,” the Deloitte
Access report said. “Indeed, with the world still throwing big
bucks at coal and iron ore, trade surpluses are the best seen in
decades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  