-- 
Aussie Dollar Gains as China Growth Exceeds 9 Percent for Ninth Quarter

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-10-18T03:49:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/australia-new-zealand-dollars-rise-before-china-third-quarter-growth-data.html
The Australian dollar rose as a
report showed economic growth in  China ,  Australia ’s biggest
trading partner, exceeded 9 percent for a ninth quarter.  Gains in the Australian dollar were limited after minutes
from the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s Oct. 4 meeting showed the
central bank deemed inflation less of a concern. New Zealand’s
currency erased an earlier advance as Asian stocks declined.  “People have been talking about a slowdown in China for a
long time, or hard landing, it hasn’t eventuated and it’s not
going to,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP
Australia Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest interdealer
broker. The Chinese data was “quite solid. This is good for
risk assets,” such as the Australian dollar, he said.  The so-called Aussie rose 0.3 percent to $1.0184 at 2:21
p.m. in Sydney. The currency climbed 0.3 percent to 78.25 yen.
The New Zealand dollar was little changed at 79.19 U.S. cents
after gaining as much as 0.4 percent. It bought 60.84 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares slid 2.2 percent.  China’s economy  grew 9.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier and follows a 9.5 percent gain in the previous
three months. The median estimate was 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. The statistics bureau released the
data in Beijing today.  New Zealand’s dollar strengthened earlier after Reserve
Bank of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard said reconstruction
after earthquakes in Christchurch will boost economic growth and
inflation pressures for at least five years, removing the need
for monetary stimulus.  Rebuilding from the quakes that damaged New Zealand’s
second-largest city in the last two years should provide
“significant stimulus” in the medium term, RBNZ’s Bollard said
today in prepared remarks for a Wellington speech.  “Certainly, some of the headlines that came out from the
speech were supportive of the  New Zealand  dollar,” said Alex Sinton, a senior dealer at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Auckland.
“The Australian and New Zealand dollars are looking healthier
over the longer term.”  -- Editors: Jonathan Annells, Benjamin Purvis 