-- 
Aussie Dollar Snaps Gain Against Yen on European Debt Concern; Kiwi Drops

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-10-19T03:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/australian-dollar-snaps-advance-as-falling-s-p-futures-sap-risk-appetite.html
The Australian dollar snapped an
advance against the yen from yesterday on concern  Europe ’s
leaders won’t be able to deliver a resolution to halt the debt
crisis before the Group of 20 nations meet next month.  New Zealand’s dollar failed to extend an advance against
its U.S. counterpart after Spain’s credit rating was cut for the
third time since June 2010 by Moody’s Investors Service. Demand
for Australia’s currency was supported on signs the economy
remains resilient and as Asian stocks extended a global rally.  “I don’t expect any sort of miracle answer at the G-20 and
we could see a disappointment and that will be reflected in risk
appetite,” said  Thomas Averill , a director at foreign-exchange
and interest-rate risk management company Rochford Capital in
Sydney. “There’s quite a lot of nervousness out there and
people are selling the Aussie and buying the  U.S. dollar  on
rallies.”  Australia’s dollar traded at 78.73 yen as of 1:47 p.m. in
Sydney from 78.85 yen in  New York . It bought $1.0267 from
$1.0263 yesterday, when it advanced 1 percent. New Zealand’s
dollar slid 0.3 percent to 60.96 yen. The currency was little
changed at 79.49 U.S. cents.  Moody’s reduced Spain’s credit ranking to its fifth-highest
investment grade, cutting it by two levels to A1 from Aa2, with
the outlook remaining negative, the company said in a statement.  EU Summit, G-20  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  pledged last week to present a plan to fix
Europe’s debt crisis when the G-20 leaders convene in Cannes,
 France  on Nov. 3. The group’s finance ministers and central
bankers meeting last weekend set an Oct. 23 summit of European
leaders as a deadline to agree on a comprehensive solution.  Losses in the Australian dollar were limited on signs the
nation’s economy and banks remain solid.  “Australian banks’ funding structures are considerably
more resilient to periods of stressed markets than they were
previously,” Reserve Bank Assistant Governor Guy Debelle said
in prepared remarks for a speech in Sydney today. “We are not
seeing the same sort of stresses for the Australian banks, as
are present for some of the European banks.”  A leading index of future economic growth in  Australia 
advanced 0.8 percent in August from a month earlier to 287,
Westpac Banking Corp. and the Melbourne Institute said in a
statement in Sydney today. Westpac’s leading index tracks eight
gauges of activity, including company profits and productivity,
to give an indication of how the economy will perform over the
next three to nine months.  “We’ve really seen some terrific upside data surprises in
the last couple of weeks,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-
Pacific research at TD Securities in  Singapore . “If the market
does revert back to economic fundamentals, I still think
Australia is looking on top, so Aussie should likely outperform
euro, U.S. dollar, and kiwi dollar on the back of it.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares advanced as much as
0.9 percent after the MSCI’s World index rose 0.3 percent
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  