-- 
BA’s Walsh Says China Jet a Threat to Airbus, Boeing After Visit

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-10-18T14:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/ba-s-walsh-says-china-jet-a-threat-to-airbus-boeing-after-visit.html
Willie Walsh , chief executive of
British Airways parent IAG, said he examined  China ’s plans for a
new single-aisle plane during a recent visit there and that the
project represents a serious rival to Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)   The executive met with Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China
in Shanghai about six weeks ago and was shown blueprints for the
168-seat C919 jet it aims to make by 2016, he said today in an
address to engineers in Toulouse,  France , where Airbus is based.  “My view is you have a real competitor,” Walsh said. “The
C919 looks very good on paper. There’s a lot of improvement in
fuel consumption and environmental performance.” He didn’t say
whether his company is considering placing an order.  British Airways, which merged with  Spain ’s Iberia in
January to form International Consolidated Airlines Group SA,
signed a memorandum with Comac at the 2010 Farnborough Air Show
agreeing to initiate talks about “future aircraft needs.” IAG is
a major customer for both Airbus and Boeing so that any switch
to the Chinese company would be viewed as a breakthrough order.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s biggest discount airline,
said at the  Paris Air Show  in June that it’s also talking with
Comac and has a requirement for at least 200 single-aisle jets.  State-backed Comac expects to announce “substantial” new
contracts for the C919 this year, Chen Jin, general manager for
sales and marketing, said Sept. 23 at the Beijing Air Show. Test
flights for the model are slated for 2014.  Walsh said that while the Chinese plane’s fuel efficiency
should be enhanced by its use of Leap-X engines from  General
Electric Co. (GE) ’s CFM International venture, IAG needs an aircraft
that “works well from day one” and represents value for money.  “Price is very important,” the executive said at the  SAE
2011 AeroTech conference . “These are expensive assets in an
industry that struggles to get its hands on capital. We’re
looking for everything, and we want it cheaper than it is now.”  Walsh made a private visit to Chinese cities including
Beijing and  Shanghai  in the week beginning Aug. 22 to meet with
“industry contacts,” IAG spokeswoman Laura Goodes said. 