-- 
Ponnuru: Bad Math Hurts Cain’s Good Tax Intentions

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-10-18T00:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/bad-math-hurts-herman-cain-s-good-tax-intentions-ramesh-ponnuru.html
If you think taxes are complicated
now, wait until  Herman Cain  simplifies them. The former chief
executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc., now running for the
Republican presidential nomination and selling a book, has been
rising in the polls partly because of the appeal of his “9-9-9”
plan to reform taxes. At the Bloomberg/Washington Post debate at
 Dartmouth College  last week, he argued that a great virtue of
the plan is that it is “simple” and “transparent.”  In truth, the complexity of Cain’s proposal would impress
Rube Goldberg. It has three stages. In the first, Congress would
reduce the top  tax rate  for individuals and corporations to 25
percent, allow companies to pay favorable rates on any overseas
profits they bring home, and end the capital-gains tax.  Stage Two is where 9-9-9 comes in. Cain would abolish the
payroll tax and replace it with three taxes. One would be a new
version of the income tax with a 9 percent rate and no personal
exemption, standard deduction, mortgage deduction, earned-income
tax credit or child credit. There would also be a 9 percent
retail- sales tax . Companies would pay what Cain calls a
corporate income tax, though it would be much closer to a
European-style value-added tax. You already know the rate.  Then comes Stage Three, when Cain would throw away the new
income tax and the value added tax he created and institute the
Fair Tax. That’s a proposal for a retail sales tax of 30 percent
that some conservatives have been  promoting for years .  Poor People Lose  At last week’s debate, Cain claimed that poor people would
come out ahead under his plan (Stage Two of it, that is) because
they would pay a 9 percent income tax, but the standard 15.3
percent payroll levy would be eliminated. On this point he is
deeply mistaken. The earned-income tax credit currently offsets
some of that 15.3 percent, and he would abolish that credit.
Poor people would also pay the 9 percent sales tax every time
they buy groceries or get a medical bill.  And that’s not all. Cain is counting the employer share of
the payroll tax in his 15.3 percent on the theory that employers
pass that on to workers by cutting their wages. He is right to
do so. But a good chunk of his VAT would also be passed on to
workers. Today’s corporate income tax allows companies to deduct
wages. The VAT doesn’t: It is designed to be, at least partly, a
tax on wages -- just one that is collected from companies rather
than earners. A portion of the VAT would also be passed on to
consumers in the form of higher prices.  So in addition to paying new taxes on their purchases and
losing the personal exemption and earned-income tax credit,
people at the low end of the income scale would see their wages
drop. The reduction in payroll taxes wouldn’t come close to
making up for these hits. And there might be additional ones, as
state and local governments raise taxes to pay for the sales
taxes they would have to transfer to the federal government for
their purchases. (On “Meet the Press” on Oct. 16, Cain hedged
slightly. “Some people will pay more” under the plan, he
admitted, “but most people will pay less.”)  Prices, Wages, Inflation  Cain claims that neither the sales tax nor the VAT will
cause prices to increase. His argument is that the cost of the
taxes that he would reduce or eliminate is “embedded” in the
prices of goods: Reducing that cost and piling on sales taxes
would be a wash. It sounds too good to be true, and it is. If
taxes are embedded in the prices of goods, they are embedded in
the price of labor, too. That means wages would have to fall.
And if wages don’t fall, firms will fire people to avoid paying
wages above the new market level.  The  Federal Reserve  could prevent mass unemployment by
accelerating inflation to aid the transition to the 9-9-9
system, and then inflating again, even more, for the switch to
the 30 percent sales tax. But Cain, who has been complaining
about the Fed’s “printing money out of thin air” in recent
years, may not support these steps.  Enforcement Regime  He says the plan would “end the IRS as we know it.” But
even after the last stage, the federal government would still
have to know people’s wages to figure out how large their Social
Security checks should eventually be. And since benefits could
no longer be tied to payroll taxes paid -- Cain would have
abolished those taxes -- people would, for the first time, have
an incentive to fool the federal government into thinking they
had earned more than they actually did. Over-reporting income
would get you higher Social Security benefits, without raising
your tax liabilities. Cain wants to introduce personal accounts
as part of a long-term change to Social Security, but during the
decades of transition those accounts will be on top of some
amount of traditional benefits. An enforcement regime of some
kind would be needed.  The chief problem with the final stage of Cain’s plan,
meanwhile, is that there’s no reason to believe it would work.
Enforcing a 30 percent sales tax would be a nightmare, which is
why no advanced economy relies on sales taxes to such an extent.  An Impossible Plan  Not to worry: There’s also no reason to think the federal
government would ever enact Cain’s plan. Even if, per
impossibile, Cain were elected president, Congress isn’t going
to tell senior citizens that, after having paid taxes on income
all their lives, they will now incur extra sales taxes when they
spend the money. It’s not going to raise taxes on millions of
poor and middle-class people.  Cain is actually right to want to move toward taxing
consumption. But we could do that simply by taxing income and
exempting the returns on savings -- thus avoiding many of the
problems that Cain’s plan raises. Wouldn’t that be, well,
simpler?  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 