-- 
Bailout Bonds to Recover After Euro Nations Boost EFSF Powers

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-18T09:14:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/bailout-bonds-to-recover-after-euro-nations-boost-efsf-powers.html
Investors are underestimating bonds
issued by the European Union’s bailout fund after it won
enhanced powers to combat the region’s debt crisis, according to
 Barclays Capital .  Slovakia became the last of the 17 euro area countries to
approve changes to the European Financial Stability Facility on
Oct. 13, enabling it to buy sovereign debt in the secondary and
primary markets, offer credit lines to governments and grant aid
for bank recapitalizations. The fund raised 13 billion euros
($18 billion) from bond sales this year.  “The intensity of the discussions around the approval
process to enhance the EFSF has been clearly mirrored in the
recent spread cheapening of EFSF bonds,” Michaela Seimen, an
analyst at Barclays in  London  wrote in a note to investors.
“With a stabilization of the headline risk around the approval
process and expected larger outstanding debt volumes, the EFSF
bonds’ spread should align more with equivalent EU bonds.”  Bondholders should consider selling bonds issued by the EU
through the  European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism  and
buying securities issued by the 440 billion-euro EFSF, Seimen
said.  The yield gap between the EFSF’s 3.375 percent bonds due
July 2021 and the EU’s 3.5 percent notes due June 2021 has
widened to 31.4 basis points from a low of 2.7 basis points on
June 21, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average
gap since June 16 is 12.6 basis points.  Officials are seeking to multiply the strength of the EFSF
as part of a plan that is yet to be made public, which also
includes writing down Greek bonds by as much as 50 percent,
people familiar with the matter said last week. The bailout fund
could be allowed to borrow from the  European Central Bank  or
used to partly insure new bonds issued by distressed
governments.  The ECB has all but ruled out the first method, making bond
guarantees more likely, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  