-- 
Bank of America Reduces Europe Risk by $2.1 Billion, Led by Cuts in Spain

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-10-18T14:59:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/bank-of-america-lowers-european-risk-led-by-reduction-in-spain.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , this year’s
worst performer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , said it
lowered its risk tied to five European nations by $2.1 billion
in the third quarter, led by reductions in  Spain .  Sovereign and non-sovereign exposure to Greece, Ireland,
Italy, Portugal and Spain declined to $14.6 billion on Sept. 30
from $16.7 billion three months earlier, the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based lender said today in a financial  supplement 
posted on its website. The amount at risk in Spain dropped to
almost $4.5 billion from about $6 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, is lowering
funds at risk in the European nations as investors try to gauge
potential fallout from a debt crisis. European Union leaders are
divided over an emerging plan to avoid a Greek default, bolster
banks and curb contagion. Group of 20 finance ministers and
central bankers pressed the region’s policy makers to set out a
strategy by the end of the week.  “We feel very good about where we’re positioned,” Chief
Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  said on a call with analysts
today. “We’re more focused on, ‘Is there any second-derivative
effect that comes out of what’s going on in  Europe ?’ as opposed
to any concern with any of the exposures that we have.”  The lender has purchased about $1.7 billion in credit-
default protection for the funds at risk in the five European
nations. Funds at risk in Italy fell to about $6.5 billion on
Sept. 30 from $6.9 billion three months earlier, with protection
against most of the sovereign assets.  Bank of America is monitoring investments linked to  France 
after Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday that the nation’s
top credit rating is under pressure.  France  “Consistent with the way that we hedge and what we’ve done
in Italy, if you see any real change in the perception of the
country, we would adjust that,” Thompson said. “But, I think,
despite some of the rumblings from the agencies, it still is a
triple-A-rated country.”  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. lender, said
yesterday that it lowered funds at risk in the same five
European countries to $29.8 billion on Sept. 30 from $31.7
billion at the end of the second quarter. The New York-based
bank also disclosed $32.4 billion in funded and unfunded
exposure to France and Belgium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  