-- 
Bank of America Is ‘Knocking It Out of the Park,’ Holland Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-10-18T19:42:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/bank-of-america-is-knocking-it-out-of-the-park-holland-says-tom-keene.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is “knocking
it out of the park” with third-quarter revenue that beat
analysts’ estimates by almost $3 billion, said Michael Holland,
chairman of New York-based investment firm Holland & Co.  The $28.7 billion in revenue “is a big number,” Holland
said today in an interview with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on
“Bloomberg Surveillance.” The Charlotte, North Carolina-based
bank was expected to post revenue of $25.9 billion, according to
the average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bank of America, which lost its status as the biggest U.S.
lender by assets during the quarter, swung to a profit as  credit
quality  improved and the firm booked one-time gains. Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, is divesting businesses
and cutting jobs as he seeks to trim $5 billion in annual costs.  For some investors, including billionaire  Warren Buffett ,
the goal is “to see the political target -- that big bull’s-eye
on the back of Bank of America -- diminish over time,” Holland
said.  Critics including President Barack Obama objected to the
firm’s plan to charge customers $5 a month for using debit
cards. Five U.S. House Democrats asked Attorney General Eric Holder on Oct. 13 to investigate whether banks and their trade
groups colluded on decisions to impose new fees after the
Federal Reserve, acting on a mandate of the Dodd-Frank Act,
capped so-called debit-card swipe fees charged to merchants.  Bank of America advanced 10 percent to $6.66 at 3:23 p.m.
in New York trading, the most since August, making it the day’s
best performer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  