-- 
BofA Loses No. 1 Ranking by Assets to JPMorgan as Chief Moynihan Retreats

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-10-18T11:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/bank-of-america-loses-no-1-ranking-by-assets-to-jpmorgan-chase.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  lost its
ranking as the largest U.S. lender by assets as Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  cut jobs and sold units and rival
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  expanded.  JPMorgan’s  total assets  increased 1.9 percent in the third
quarter to $2.29 trillion as of Sept. 30, while Bank of America
reported today a 1.8 percent decrease to $2.22 trillion. San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  was the largest by market
value as of yesterday’s close on the New York Stock Exchange.  Bank of America became biggest by assets under former CEO
Kenneth D. Lewis through acquisitions, including credit-card
issuer MBNA Corp. and home lender Countrywide Financial Corp.
Both were the largest in their industries and later triggered
writedowns that contributed to six quarterly losses since mid-
2008 at  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America.  The change in ranking “tells me that Bank of America is
behind JPMorgan,” said Jefferson Harralson, an analyst at KBW
Inc. “Their capital levels are 200 to 300 basis points behind
JPMorgan; their ability to pay a dividend is 8 to 12 quarters
behind. The acquisition of Countrywide was a key determinant of
why they’re so far behind.”  Moynihan has been shutting branches and selling assets such
as Canadian credit-card operations and a stake in health-care
company HCA Holdings Inc. as the bank prepares for capital rules
set by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. He said last
month he would eliminate about 30,000 jobs after consumer-
protection rules squeezed revenue from debit and credit cards.  ‘More Driven’  “We don’t have to be the biggest company out there,”
Moynihan said at a Sept. 12 investor conference in  New York .
“We can get out of things we don’t need to do, make the company
leaner, more straightforward, more driven.”  JPMorgan, led by CEO  Jamie Dimon , never reported a losing
quarter throughout the financial crisis, even as it rescued Bear
Stearns Cos. and took over the banking unit of Washington Mutual
Inc. after that Seattle-based lender collapsed. Dimon added
units to the commodities business and has been increasing the
branch count.  JPMorgan raised its dividend in March to 25 cents a share
from 5 cents after the  Federal Reserve  reviewed the ability of
the largest U.S. lenders to withstand another economic slump.
Bank of America said that month that the Fed rejected its
request to increase its dividend from 1 cent a share.  JPMorgan’s third-quarter net income was $4.26 billion, the
New York-based company reported last week. Moynihan’s firm
posted third-quarter net income of $6.23 billion helped by an
accounting gain, the bank said today.  Bank of America became the largest bank in the first
quarter of 2009. JPMorgan had supplanted New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  as the biggest  U.S. bank  in 2008 after taking
over Bear Stearns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  