-- 
Bernanke Says Federal Reserve Seeks to Increase Clarity About Policy Goals

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-10-18T21:43:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/bernanke-says-federal-reserve-seeks-to-increase-clarity-about-policy-goals.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank is likely to rely more on public
communications as a policy tool as it seeks to provide clarity
about the likely future path of  interest rates .  “The FOMC continues to explore ways to further increase
transparency about its forecasts and policy plans,” Bernanke
said today in a speech in Boston. “Forward guidance and other
forms of communication about policy can be valuable even when
the zero lower bound is not relevant, and I expect to see
increasing use of such tools in the future.”  Bernanke and his colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  have approved untested policy tools at their last two
meetings to spur a recovery that has left the  unemployment rate 
stuck near 9 percent or higher for 30 consecutive months. The
central bank in August pledged to hold interest rates near zero
until mid-2013, and in September the Fed announced it will swap
$400 billion of short-term debt for longer-term securities in a
bid to lower interest rates.  Unable to lower interest rates below zero, the central bank
has relied on forward guidance about its intentions and
manipulation of the size and composition of its assets to
provide stimulus to the economy, Bernanke said.  Policy makers are weighing how to offer more information
about the Fed’s goals, and how such targets influence its
decisions. Most FOMC members favor providing more information
than the economic forecasts the Fed publishes quarterly,
according to minutes of the Sept. 20-21 session. The FOMC has
established a working group to study transparency initiatives.  ‘Normal Times’  “In more normal times, when short-term policy rates are
not constrained, I expect that balance-sheet policies will be
rarely used,” Bernanke said in a speech at the Boston Fed’s
annual economic conference.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher , Narayana Kocherlakota
of  Minneapolis  and  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia dissented
from the decisions at the Fed’s last two meetings. Fisher, who
has dubbed the Fed’s Operation Twist “jujitsu with the yield
curve,” said in a Sept. 27 speech that the central bank’s
recent moves “are likely to prove ineffective and might well
work against  job creation .”  Kocherlakota said in a speech last week that “the
committee’s actions at the last two meetings are inconsistent
with a systematic pursuit of its communicated objectives,”
noting that unemployment of 9.1 percent in September was down
from the 9.8 percent reported in November while most measures of
inflation have risen.  Long-Run Estimates  Currently, the FOMC publishes its range of long-run
estimates for gross domestic product, unemployment and
inflation, a proxy for policy goals. The range for inflation in
June, for example, was 1.7 percent to 2 percent as measured by
the personal consumption expenditures price index. The range for
unemployment was 5.2 percent to 5.6 percent.  The Fed has drawn criticism from top Republican lawmakers,
who sent Bernanke a letter before the last meeting asking him
not to do “further harm” to the economy and to better explain
the Fed’s actions.  Lawmakers, including House Speaker  John Boehner  and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , urged Bernanke to refrain from
further monetary stimulus, “particularly without a clear
articulation of the goals of such a policy” and “ample data
proving a case for economic action.” Americans, they said,
“have reason to be skeptical” of his plans.  Flexible Targeting  While the Fed lacks a “formal, numerical inflation
target,” its policies have “many of the elements of flexible
inflation targeting,” Bernanke said. “Like flexible inflation
targeters, the Federal Open Market Committee is committed to
stabilizing inflation over the medium run while retaining the
flexibility to help offset cyclical fluctuations in economic
activity and employment.”  Policy makers’ long-run inflation projections are
“analogous” to targets even though they aren’t a “formal
inflation goal of the Committee as a whole,” Bernanke said.  Flexible inflation-targeting has helped the Fed in manage
expectations about prices, Bernanke said.  “The commitment to a policy framework that is transparent
about objectives and forecasts was helpful, in many instances,
in managing those expectations and thus in making monetary
policy both more predictable and more effective during the past
few years than it might otherwise have been.”  Bernanke also said that monetary policy may be “too blunt
a tool” to control asset-price bubbles. Instead, he said,
measures such as ensuring adequate bank capital and liquidity
“should be used to address developing risks to financial
stability, such as excessive credit growth.”  10-Year Yields  The yield on 10-year Treasuries fell to a record close of
1.72 percent the day after the Fed announced its program to
lengthen maturities of the bonds in its portfolio, known as
Operation Twist. The yield has since risen to 2.18 percent as of
4:51 p.m. in  New York . Lower yields may help reduce borrowing
costs across the economy, boosting industries including autos
and housing.  Investors have raised their bets for price gains in recent
weeks, as measured by the difference between inflation-adjusted
and nominal Treasury securities over the next 10 years. Those
expectations rose to 1.99 percent inflation today. That’s up
from 1.71 percent, their lowest level of 2011, on Sept. 22, the
day after the Fed announced Operation Twist.  “Low interest rates for the entire industry is one of the
reasons that we think that despite some economic volatility, the
 auto industry  in general continues to be a bright spot in the
economy, and we expect that to continue,” Robert Carter, U.S.
sales vice president for Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest
carmaker, said during an Oct. 3 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  Caroline Salas Gage in  Boston  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  