-- 
BHP Iron Ore Production Gains to a Record on Expansions

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-10-19T05:15:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/bhp-iron-ore-production-gains-to-a-record-on-expansions-1-.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, reported record first-quarter  iron ore 
production, driven by demand from  steel mills  in  Asia  and
expansions at its Australian mines.  Output was 39.57 million metric tons in the three months
ended Sept. 30, compared with 31.98 million tons a year earlier,
Melbourne-based BHP said today in a statement. That compares
with Credit Suisse Group AG’s estimate of 35.05 million tons.  BHP, which in March approved a $7.4 billion expansion to
boost output at the Western Australian iron ore mines, joins  Rio
Tinto  Group in reporting higher quarterly production.  China ’s
ore demand is holding after the economy grew 9.1 percent in the
quarter, Vale SA, the world’s largest producer, said yesterday.  “Chinese GDP and Chinese industrial production data still
point to pretty robust growth ahead,” said  Peter Jolly , head of
market research in Sydney at the investment-banking unit of
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)   BHP shares were unchanged at A$36.40 at the close of
trading in Sydney.  BHP’s Australian iron ore operations “continued to benefit
from the dual tracking of the company’s rail infrastructure,
increasing overall system capability,” the company said today.
BHP’s iron ore division is the company’s biggest earning unit.  Cash Prices  Cash prices for iron ore have dropped to the lowest in
almost a year on concern expansion in China, the biggest
consumer of the raw material, may slow as  Europe ’s debt crisis
drags on a global recovery. The nation’s expansion in the third-
quarter was the slowest pace in two years.  “We have a lot of volatility in the market but overall
prices are still basically pretty high because in reality
Chinese growth remains pretty robust,” National  Australia ’s
Jolly said.  London-based Rio Tinto reported a 5 percent increase in
iron ore output and coking coal reached a record in the quarter,
recovering from severe weather in early 2011 that hurt shipments
from Australia.  BHP also set production records at coal operations in
Australia’s New South Wales state and in Colombia, as well as at
the Alumar alumina and aluminum refinery in Brazil. Ore
shipments from Western Australian rose to a record annualized
rate of 173 million tons.  Total petroleum output, BHP’s third-biggest earning unit,
rose 19 percent following the acquisition of shale assets in the
U.S., while copper output dropped 24 percent because of lower
grades and strikes at Escondida in  Chile  as well as planned
maintenance and outages at Pampa Norte in Chile and Olympic Dam
in Australia, it said.  Queensland Floods  Full-year spending on petroleum exploration, excluding
onshore U.S., is forecast at $1 billion, BHP said.  Output of coking coal, BHP’s fourth-largest earner, slid 10
percent to 9.29 million tons as it continued to be crimped by
the earlier flooding and rain. The mines also face the threat of
further strikes after the workers rejected the company’s offer
for a new employment contract last week.  “At this stage it is not possible to determine when the
labor negotiations will conclude,” BHP said. Kelly Quirke, a
company spokeswoman, said today the affect of the labor dispute
on coking coal production has been “modest.”  Lower volumes are forecast this quarter from the Illawarra
coal unit because of planned plant shutdown, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  