-- 
Yankee, MetLife Stadiums Interested in Big East Championship Title Game

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-10-19T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/big-east-increases-football-exit-fee-to-10-million-as-expansion-examined.html
Yankee and MetLife stadiums would be
interested in hosting the  Big East Conference ’s proposed
football championship game once the college league expands to 12
members.  Big East  Commissioner John Marinatto said on a media
conference call yesterday that the league would like to hold a
championship game in  New York  after it adds six football
members.  Yankees President Randy Levine and Mark Lamping, chief
executive officer of New Meadowlands Stadium Co. where the
 National Football League ’s Jets and Giants play, both said
yesterday they would be amenable to staging the game.  “We would like to do a championship game here in  New York
City . How great that would be,” Marinatto said on the call.
“We want to quickly resolve this, but we realize there are a
number of moving pieces. We’re not going to rush ourselves to
meet anyone’s deadline.”  Yankee Stadium will host a game between Big East member
 Rutgers University  and the U.S. Military Academy on Nov. 12.
Army played the University of Notre Dame, which competes in the
Big East in all sports except football, last year in the first
college game in the new stadium and drew 54,000 fans.  Lamping said the stadium in East Rutherford,  New Jersey ,
would welcome a Big East championship title game.  “We’re bullish on college football in the New York
market,” Lamping said. “We have a lot of respect for the Big
East conference.”  Exit Fee Increase  Marinatto also said the Providence, Rhode Island-based
college sports league will increase its exit fee to $10 million
for football schools as soon as it adds one more member. No
invitations have been announced in its effort to expand. The
conference would consider teams outside the Eastern and Central
time zones, Marinatto said, declining to name schools under
consideration.  The Houston Chronicle, citing a person it didn’t identify,
reported that the  University of Houston  had received a Big East
invitation. Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN reported the Big East wants
to add Boise State in  Idaho  and the Air Force Academy in
Colorado Springs, Colorado, as football-only members, and
Houston and Dallas-based Southern Methodist University as all-
sports members.  The Big East lost the University of Pittsburgh and Syracuse
University to the Atlantic Coast Conference last month. Texas
Christian University, which had committed to joining the Big
East, said it was joining the Big 12 Conference instead.  The Big East’s football champion  automatically qualifies 
for the Bowl Championship Series until the current contract
expires after the 2013 season.  No Championship Game  The conference currently doesn’t have a football
championship game, awarding the title to the team with the best
record. It holds its annual men’s basketball championship
tournament at New York’s Madison Square Garden.  The remaining six football-playing schools in the Big East
are Rutgers, West Virginia, Cincinnati, Louisville, South
Florida and  Connecticut . Under the new rule, once the conference
expands by one football school, the new fee takes effect.  The exit fee will remain at $5 million for the eight non-
football members -- DePaul, Providence, Seton Hall, Marquette,
Villanova, St. Johns,  Notre Dame  and Georgetown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  