-- 
Billionaire Safra’s Commodes May Fetch $40 Million at Sotheby’s

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-10-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/billionaire-safra-s-commodes-may-fetch-40-million-at-sotheby-s.html
Billionaire banker Edmond J. Safra
and his wife, Lily, lived with regal lavishness before his death
in a Monaco fire in 1999.  Now the couple’s dining chairs, 18th-century commodes and
soup plates are heading to the auction block as part of a four-
day, six-part sale Oct. 18-21 at  Sotheby’s  in  New York .  With more than 800 lots, “Property From the Collections of
Lily and Edmond J. Safra” is expected to tally more than $40
million.  This is the second sale of possessions from the Safras’
homes in the U.S.,  Switzerland  and  France . The first took place
in 2005 and totaled $48.9 million.  Born in  Beirut , Edmond J. Safra founded Republic New York
Corp. and Safra Republic Holdings SA. In 1999, he sold his
holdings in both companies to London-based HSBC for $10 billion.
He supported educational, cultural, religious and medical causes
around the world.  “Bringing together works of art to create beautiful
collections has been one of the passions of my life, one that I
shared with my husband, Edmond,” Lily Safra said in a
statement. “In the years since his passing, I have focused more
of my energy on the work of  the Edmond J. Safra Philanthropic
Foundation . So I feel it is now time to allow others the
opportunity to enjoy these treasures, with the hope that they
will inspire new collectors as they have inspired me.”  European Dealers  “It’s an extraordinary sale,” said Bernd Goeckler, a New
York antiques seller, who previewed the works over the weekend.
“It has some of the finest continental furniture. European
dealers will be coming to take things home.”  The priciest item by estimate is a Louis XVI-era Ormolu-
Mounted Japanese Lacquer Commode with secretaire valued at as
much as $7 million. The pair of ebony and gilt pieces depict
spare landscapes that seem to glow against the black background.
They feature bronze, marble, granite and oak. They will be
offered on Oct. 19.  A set of 19 red dining chairs and one armchair, made in the
style of George II around 1735 in  London , could bring as much as
$1.2 million.  A painting by the 19th-century Frenchman James-Jacques-
Joseph Tissot, “Sur la Tamise (Return From Henley),” which
depicts an attractive woman stepping off a boat, may fetch $1.5
million to $2.5 million. The work last appeared at auction in
1985 when it sold for $407,000, according to Artnet.com.  Russian Porcelain  The Safras amassed one of the largest private collections
of Russian porcelain, silver and enamel. On Oct. 18, one
highlight will be a pair of vases decorated with portraits of
Alexandra Fedorovna (the doomed wife of Russian Emperor Nicholas
II) and her father, King Friedrich Wilhelm III of Prussia. Its
presale estimate is $1.5 million to $2.5 million.  More affordable is a pair of Faberge silver candelabra in
the Neoclassical style, with an estimate range of $40,000 to
$60,000.  Want to eat like a king? There is plenty of porcelain that
was given as gifts to and by various European royals. One soup
plate decorated with pretty pink flowers belonged to Empress
Elizabeth of  Russia , who founded the Imperial Porcelain
Manufactory in 1744. Accompanied by a little spoon, it could
fetch $20,000 to $30,000.  The Safras also collected 19th-century European interior
paintings and 100 of them will be offered on Oct 18. One
highlight, a watercolor by Britain’s Benjamin Walter Spiers,
depicts a room overflowing with prints, drawings, painted
porcelain, arms and musical instruments. Inspired by William
Makepeace Thackeray’s poem  “The Cane-Bottom’d Chair,”  it
depicts “a snug little kingdom” of a collector’s paradise.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 