-- 
Billionaire Dethrones Kings in Beer to Burgers as Batista Model

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-10-18T04:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/billionaire-dethrones-kings-in-beer-to-burgers-as-batista-model.html
The Burger King hamburger chain made
a dramatic decision in August. It dethroned the King -- the
mascot who had danced through its advertising in various guises
for more than 50 years. The marketing move was made by the
struggling company’s new management, appointed after it was
taken private in 2010 by 3G Capital Inc., a New York-based
investment firm with roots in  Brazil .  The takeover of Burger King Holdings Inc. by 3G Capital
means the chain has a new monarch:  Jorge Paulo Lemann , the
founder of 3G. Lemann, 72, is an iconic figure in Brazilian
finance. In 1971, when Brazil was under military rule, he
founded the country’s first modern investment bank, Banco de
Investimentos Garantia SA, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in
its November issue. In subsequent decades, he emerged as one of
Brazil’s most prolific dealmakers.  Lemann’s biggest transaction: the $52 billion 2008 takeover
of Anheuser-Busch Cos. by InBev NV.  InBev was itself formed from  Belgium ’s Interbrew SA and
Brazil’s Cia. de Bebidas das Americas, or AmBev -- the biggest
beer maker in  South America  and the source of much of Lemann’s
fortune. His stake in  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  alone was valued
at $8.9 billion as of mid-September, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Burger King and his other holdings add several
billion more.  AB InBev is the world’s largest beer maker, with more than
200 brands, including Budweiser, the best-selling beer in the
U.S.; Brahma and Skol, the leading beers in Brazil; Beck’s; and
Stella Artois. When he founded Anheuser Busch in the 19th
Century, Adolphus Busch labeled his brew the King of Beers, a
slogan that still appears on some Budweiser packaging.  New Management Culture  One of Lemann’s admirers is oil-and-mining magnate  Eike Batista , who’s the richest man in Brazil, according to Bloomberg
data.  “Jorge Paulo created a whole management culture in Brazil
that is extraordinary,” Batista, 54, says. “He motivated
employees by letting them share the profits -- aggressive, but
that leads to results.”  Lemann is reclusive. He gave his last media interview in
2008 and declined to be interviewed for this story, as did his
two longtime business partners, Marcel Herrmann Telles and
Carlos Alberto da Veiga Sicupira.  Together, the three men run 3G and Stichting AK, a
Netherlands-based firm that has a controlling stake in Anheuser-
Busch InBev. Through 3G and other private companies, they also
own stakes in Rio de Janeiro-based retailer  Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4) ;
Sao Paulo-based  Sao Carlos Empreendimentos e Participacoes SA (SCAR3) , a
real-estate company; and Jacksonville, Florida-based  CSX Corp. (CSX) ,
one of the biggest U.S. freight-rail companies.  Billionaire Trio  Telles’s AB InBev stake alone was worth $3.95 billion as of
mid-September, and Sicupira’s stake was valued at $3.2 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  “They are not about beer,” says Tom Pirko, founder and
president of  Bevmark LLC , an adviser to the food and beverage
industries. “And they are not about hamburgers. They are about
money. They know how to cut costs. They know how to very
aggressively push something.”  Lemann and his partners are known for their tough
management style. That was felt right away at Burger King, which
they bought for $24 a share from Texas-based private-equity firm
TPG Capital Inc. and other investors and took private in October
2010.  At the time it was acquired, the company was a distant
third in revenues and profits behind competitors  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD)  and Wendy’s Co. -- and losing ground. Bernardo Hees, a
former chief operating officer of  All America Latina Logistica
SA (ALLL3) , a firm Lemann and his partners once controlled, was named
chief executive officer and quickly cut hundreds of jobs.  Cross-Selling  Most of the board members resigned, and the new management
ended the company’s relationship with ad agency Crispin Porter &
Bogusky LLC -- and then deposed the King mascot.  Pirko doesn’t think it’s a coincidence that Lemann and his
partners first took control of a beverage company and then a
restaurant chain. They’ve already moved to begin cross-selling
between the two businesses. In April, Burger King signed up
PepsiCo Inc. as the exclusive soft-drink provider for its
restaurants in  Latin America  and the Caribbean. AmBev is the
producer and distributor of Pepsi products in Brazil.  Hees has told investors and analysts that his plan is to
make Burger King a top brand in Latin America during the next
five years. He wants to open 1,000 restaurants in Brazil alone,
up from 108 in mid-September.  Swiss Father  Lemann, the son of a Swiss businessman who emigrated to
Brazil, was a tennis pro before he moved into finance. He was
Brazil’s top-ranked player five times from 1960 to 1972,
according to the  Brazilian Tennis Federation . He competed in the
Davis Cup in 1962 for  Switzerland  -- he holds dual citizenship
-- and for Brazil in 1973.  While pursuing his tennis career, Lemann attended  Harvard
University , receiving a degree in economics in 1961. For a few
months after graduating, he worked as a financial columnist for
the newspaper  Jornal do Brasil . He left that post because he was
pursuing a job as a broker at the same time, which his managing
editor, Alberto Dines, saw as a conflict.  “If he had continued being a journalist, he was going to be
a Joe Schmo,” says Dines, 79, who today runs  Observatorio da
Imprensa , a TV program and website. “I helped him become a
billionaire.”  After 10 years at various financial firms, Lemann founded
investment bank Garantia in 1971. The military was running the
government at the time, and markets were volatile. Weeks after
Lemann, then 32, founded his firm, the Brazilian stock market
fell 60 percent -- and Lemann’s bank lost almost all of its
capital.  Modeled on Goldman  The bank survived, with Lemann trying to fashion it after
big Wall Street firms such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , says
Jose Olympio Pereira, who started his career at Garantia in 1985
as an investment analyst and left in 1998 as head of corporate
finance. He’s now chief of  investment banking  for  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  in Brazil.  “Garantia was a paradise for ambitious, entrepreneurial
people,” Pereira says. “This ‘virus’ of the Garantia culture
infected the Brazilian corporate world. It is amazing the number
of businessmen I work with who admire the Garantia model.”  Pereira is one of a dozen top business leaders and
government officials who started their careers at Garantia.
Another is Andre Lara Resende, who ran Brazil’s national
development bank until 1998 and helped design the Plano Real,
the 1994 economic scheme that broke the cycle of high inflation
in Brazil.  Fraga an Admirer  Another is Arminio Fraga, who was chief economist at
Garantia from 1985 to 1988 and went on to become head of
Brazil’s central bank from 1999 to 2002. Fraga is now chairman
of Sao Paulo-based  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of Latin
America’s biggest stock exchange.  Fraga says Lemann made Garantia home to Brazil’s best and
brightest.  “He always led by example,” Fraga says. “It was clearly a
meritocracy, capable of attracting and keeping people with great
talent and energy.”  Garantia landed assignments helping multinationals such as
Colgate-Palmolive Co. and  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , both
based in  New York , make acquisitions in Brazil. In 1998,
Garantia was acquired by Credit Suisse for almost $1 billion.  Interbrew and Ambev  Lemann, Sicupira and Telles went on to found an investment
firm called  GP Investimentos , which they sold in 2004 so they
could concentrate their energies on the $11 billion merger of
Belgium’s Interbrew and Brazil’s AmBev.  Though the new company was based in Leuven, Belgium, the
Brazilians took control of what was then the world’s second-
largest brewer. They quickly imposed cost controls. The
productivity of InBev employees, who were afraid of losing their
jobs, improved substantially, says a person who was an Interbrew
executive at the time of the merger.  In the next and final move that created the world’s largest
brewer, InBev bought St. Louis-based Anheuser-Busch in 2008.
Some 1,400 people quickly lost their jobs. Perks ranging from
business-class flights and BlackBerrys to free cases of beer
were eliminated, according to a person familiar with the
business who said he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Even CEO Carlos Alves de Brito, a former AmBev chief
executive who has run the bigger company since the merger, was
asked to fly economy class.  Prizes Simplicity  Former colleagues say Lemann is a frugal executive who
prizes simplicity. He doesn’t drive sports cars or collect
expensive art, friends say.  “All that was not part of the Garantia culture -- the
showing off, being high profile,” Pereira says.  The austere lifestyle paid off on one particular day in the
mid-1980s. Lemann was driving his Volkswagen to a beach in Rio
and stopped for gas, according to Claudio Haddad, president of
 Insper Institute of Education and Research  in  Sao Paulo  and a
former CEO of Garantia. As Lemann was pumping gas, bandits
rolled up to rob the place, completely overlooking the
billionaire in their midst.  “Since he was dressed casually and had an old Passat, they
thought he was a nobody,” Haddad says.  Lemann’s three children by his current wife had a closer
call. In 1999, a chauffeur was driving them to school in an
armored car when kidnappers waylaid them on a Sao Paulo street.
Eight gunshots at close range penetrated the window, wounding
the chauffeur in the arm. He sped off, and the children escaped.  Few Public Appearances  Since then, Lemann and his wife, Susanna, have divided
their time between Switzerland and Brazil, and Lemann has made
few public appearances save for charity events. On those
occasions, the still tennis-slim billionaire eats and drinks
little.  The beer and burgers his companies sell are strictly for
customers.  With assistance from Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo and
Matthew G. Miller in New York. Editors: Michael Serrill, Robert
Dieterich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 