-- 
Billionaire Investor Carl Lindner, Partner in Cincinnati Reds, Dies at 92

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-10-18T16:36:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/billionaire-investor-carl-lindner-partner-in-cincinnati-reds-dies-at-92.html
Carl Lindner Jr., who learned about
business in a family dairy shop and became a billionaire buying
and selling companies as founding chairman of American Financial
Corp., has died. He was 92.  Lindner died yesterday of “causes incident to age,” the
company said in a statement.  Though averse to publicity, Lindner made news through the
years by purchasing  Chiquita Brands International Inc. (CQB) , the
 Cincinnati Reds  baseball team and the Cincinnati Enquirer
newspaper, among other entities he brought under the control of
American Financial. Others included Provident Bank, Penn Central
Corp., American Financial Enterprises, Fisher Foods, Great
American Insurance, Taft Broadcasting Co., Spelling
Entertainment and General Cable Corp.  He was a longtime resident of Cincinnati and a pillar of
the city’s  business community . A devout Baptist, teetotaler and
contributor to anti-pornography efforts, he worked closely with
his siblings and then his children as his empire grew.  Forbes magazine’s  estimates  of the net worth of Lindner and
his family topped out at $2.3 billion in 2006 to 2008. The
magazine pegged their wealth at  $1.7 billion  in 2010. In March,
Forbes dropped the family from its list of billionaires.  Lindner served as chief executive officer of American
Financial, a provider of insurance and annuities, for 45 years
before turning the company over to two of his sons in 2004,
retaining the role of chairman.  Reds, Republicans  In 1999, he led a group that bought controlling interest in
baseball’s Reds from Marge Schott. American Financial had been a
part owner of the team since 1981. Lindner sold his majority
stake in 2005.  A major political donor, mostly to Republican causes and
candidates, Lindner raised more than $200,000 for  George W.
Bush ’s re-election in 2004,  according to   Common Cause . The
Center for Responsive Politics  estimated  that Lindner assembled,
or “bundled,” $250,000 to $500,000 in contributions to
Republican  John McCain  in 2008.  In a 1985 commencement speech, a rare public address,
Lindner said he had supported both Democrats and Republicans in
his lifetime but had recently decided “to give five times my
normal contribution to any anti-communist,” according to a 1986
profile in Cincinnati Magazine.  After taking over Chiquita in 1984 and moving its
headquarters to Cincinnati, Lindner parlayed his political
connections in both parties to open new markets to the company’s
bananas, Time magazine  reported  in 1996. He gave up his Chiquita
stake when the company went through bankruptcy in 2002.  Paying Terrorists  In 2007, Chiquita pleaded guilty to U.S. charges that it
had paid the United Self Defense Forces of  Colombia , a group
designated a terrorist organization in 2001 by the U.S. State
Department, more than $1.7 million in protection money in at
least 100 installments from 1997 to 2004.  Only the company was charged, not any individual
executives. Lindner was chairman when the payments started.  Carl Henry Lindner Jr.  was born on April 22, 1919, in
Dayton,  Ohio , the first of four children of Carl and Clara
Lindner.  In 1940, the family opened a cash-and-carry dairy store
under the name United  Dairy Farmers  in Norwood, near Cincinnati.
Lindner started working there at 11 and eventually dropped out
of school to help run the business, along with his younger
siblings Robert, Richard and Dorothy.  Expanding the Business  Lindner, with his siblings, ran the business following
their father’s death in 1952. He guided the company’s continued
expansion by borrowing money to build small suburban shopping
centers to house new dairy stores, according to Cincinnati
Magazine.  Branching out, the family founded American Financial Corp.
in 1959, bought Thriftway supermarkets in 1961, entered property
and casualty insurance in 1962 and took over Provident Bank in
1966.  In 1973, Lindner became majority owner of  Great American
Insurance Co. , American Financial’s flagship for insurance
products.  Lindner worked closely with an attorney, Charles Keating,
who eventually joined American Financial as a top executive. The
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a lawsuit that the
two men engaged in self-dealing. Without admitting guilt,
Lindner and Keating signed consent orders in 1979 promising not
to violate securities laws, and Lindner agreed to repay $1.4
million to the company.  Keating’s Fall  Keating moved on to take charge of Phoenix-based
homebuilder American Continental, an affiliate of American
Financial. His success there led to his purchase of Lincoln
Savings & Loan in  California . The U.S. government seized the
thrift in 1989, a milestone of the S&L crisis, with an estimated
cost to taxpayers of $3.1 billion. Keating served four years in
prison on fraud charges.  Unhappy with the level of scrutiny that public companies
receive from regulators and shareholders, Lindner took American
Financial private in 1981, to the dismay of some shareholders
unhappy with their per-share payment.  He also drew complaints from his management of Great
American Communications Co., owner of television and radio
stations, after acquiring it in 1987 and changing its name from
Taft Communications. SEC filings showed that Lindner
“repeatedly tapped the cash-strapped Great American for
management fees and huge dividends and shuffled the company’s
assets to other Lindner affiliates” before taking the company
into a prepackaged bankruptcy, Business Week reported in 1994.  Streamlining Operations  The 1994 merger of Lindner’s American Financial Corp. and
American Premier Underwriters, another insurer he controlled,
led to creation of a new, public parent company, American
Financial Group.  The Cincinnati Enquirer reported in 2000 that Lindner had
streamlined the company by reducing debt, emphasizing specialty
insurance lines and selling operations not related to insurance,
including Great American Communications and another broadcaster,
Guardian Communications.  With his wife, Edyth, Lindner had three sons -- Carl III,
Craig and Keith.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  