-- 
Blackstone’s Brixmor Plans $300 Million Retail Redevelopment

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-10-18T16:58:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/blackstone-s-brixmor-plans-300-million-in-retail-redevelopment.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s Brixmor
Property Group Inc., the second-largest owner of U.S.
neighborhood shopping centers, plans to spend about $300 million
to redevelop properties, its chief executive officer said.  The company, which changed its name from  Centro Properties
Group (CNP)  U.S. last month after Blackstone’s $9 billion acquisition,
plans to overhaul retail centers over the next five years to
boost occupancy and income, Michael Carroll, CEO of  New York- 
based Brixmor, said in an interview.  Blackstone bought the U.S. malls of Melbourne-based Centro
Properties Group in June as the Australian company sought to pay
debt incurred in an acquisition spree before the real estate
slump. Centro’s financial constraints limited how much money the
U.S. unit could put into its properties, Carroll said.  “We have not been able to really focus on operating for
the last several years,” Carroll, whose company owns 585
shopping centers in 39 states, said by telephone. “It is a very
unique time here in our company, effectively a new day where we
can change the name, leave that former legacy behind and really
try to reset this company to achieve its operating goals and
really take it to a place that we want to take it to.”  Brixmor, whose properties are mostly anchored by grocery
stores or discount chains, may eventually sell shares to the
public. A variety of options will be explored, the CEO said.  “It’s a long way between where we are right now and the
ultimate exit” that may occur in three to five years, Carroll
said. “Clearly a public execution is a likely execution.”  The company doesn’t plan major changes to its portfolio,
according to Carroll.  “We’re really more of an operating story here than an
acquisition or disposition story,” he said.  Supermarket-Anchored Centers  Supermarket-anchored retail centers have attracted
investors because of the perceived safety of properties that
consumers have to visit for necessities in a slow-growing
economy. Sales of such real estate in the first half of the year
exceeded the total for all of 2010, according to research
company Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Deals for community shopping centers have slowed amid a
pullback in the market for commercial mortgage backed
securities, according to Carroll.  Purchases of retail properties are “highly dependent on
the CMBS market being open and functioning well,” he said.
“Right now, it’s not functioning that well.”  Stockpiles of loans for new deals have shrunk amid
volatility that’s increased since July as  Europe ’s leaders
struggled to stem the region’s sovereign debt crisis. Bank of
America Corp. cut its 2011 issuance forecast to $25 billion to
$30 billion in August after predicting more than $40 billion in
new sales.  Equity One Deal  Blackstone, the world’s largest public-equity firm, has
agreed to acquire additional shopping centers since the Centro
deal. Last month, it said it would buy 36 retail properties,
mostly anchored by grocery stores, from  North Miami Beach ,
Florida-based  Equity One Inc. (EQY)  for $473.1 million. Equity One
expects the deal to be completed by the end of the year.  Brixmor’s properties are 89 percent occupied, according to
Carroll. That matches the U.S. average.  Vacancies at the country’s shopping centers have risen as
such local retailers as dry cleaners and restaurants go out of
business and reduced access to capital prevents other stores
from taking their place. In the third quarter, the vacancy rate
at community and neighborhood centers was 11 percent, the
highest since 1990, according Reis Inc., a New York-based real
estate research company.  Kimco Realty Corp. (KIM) , a  New Hyde Park , New York-based real
estate investment trust, is the largest owner of community
shopping centers with 946 properties in the U.S.,  Canada , Mexico
and  South America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  