-- 
BNP Paribas Sued by U.S. Over Alleged Commodities Payment Guarantee Scheme

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-10-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/bnp-paribas-sued-by-u-s-over-alleged-commodities-payment-guarantee-scheme.html
BNP Paribas SA was sued by the U.S.
over allegations the Paris-based bank aided a grain export fraud
scheme involving commodity payment guarantees provided by the
Department of Agriculture.  A corporate banker in BNP’s Houston office allegedly helped
a scheme that defrauded the Agriculture Department of at least
$78 million through deals he made with four U.S. grain
exporters, according to a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Houston.  The banker knew the exporters were secretly controlled by
the same foreign businessman who owned the companies importing
the shipments into  Mexico , the U.S. said in the complaint. The
Agriculture Department’s Supplier Credit Guarantee Program
prohibits payment guarantees on commodity sales between a U.S.
exporter and a foreign-owned importer controlled by the same
person or group.  “Because the U.S. exporters and Mexican importers were
under common ownership and/or control, which fact defendants
knew, none of the commodity sales between these entities were
eligible for SCGP payment guarantees,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Michelle Zingaro said in the complaint.  When the Mexican importers defaulted on payments for dozens
of grain shipments from 1998 to 2006, BNP and Jovenal “Jerry”
M. Cruz, its former trade finance manager, “presented or caused
to be presented false or fraudulent claims to the USDA,”
Zingaro said in the complaint, which also names Cruz,  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  North America and BNP Paribas Houston Agency as
defendants.  Michele Sicard and Julie Beuter, spokeswomen for BNP
Paribas, didn’t immediately return e-mails seeking comment on
the U.S. complaint after regular business hours yesterday.  Not Guilty Plea  Philip Hilder, Cruz’s attorney, said in a phone interview
that the former BNP vice president has entered a plea of not
guilty and is awaiting trial in February. Three other people
charged in the scheme have pleaded guilty and are awaiting
sentencing, according to court records.  The government seeks triple damages, or $234 million, plus
penalties of as much as $11,000 for each violation of the  False
Claims Act .  The U.S. shipping companies assigned their falsely obtained
export guarantees to BNP, “along with the payment obligation
from the Mexican importer,” according to the complaint. In
exchange, BNP provided the U.S. exporter a line of credit up to
the amount of the guarantees, minus the bank’s fee.  “By financing these transactions, BNP earned fees in
exchange for providing a line of credit to U.S. exporters that
was fully secured by the  United States ,” the government said in
the complaint. “Cruz solicited and received payments of
kickbacks and/or bribes” from others in the alleged conspiracy
“for BNP’s role in financing the scheme through expanding lines
of credit from BNP to the U.S. exporters based on ineligible
commodity sales to the Mexican importers.”  The case is US v BNP Paribas SA, 4:11-cv-03718, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  