-- 
BofA Says Fannie Mae Claims ‘Increasingly Inconsistent’ With Bank’s View

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-10-18T16:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/bofa-says-fannie-claims-increasingly-inconsistent-with-bank-view.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which has
committed more than $40 billion to cover the cost of faulty home
loans, said demands from government-backed mortgage investors
are varying more from the lender’s expectations.  Repurchase requests and the resolution processes involving
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  have “become increasingly
inconsistent with our interpretation of our contractual
obligations,”  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
said today in a  slide presentation .  Bank of America is facing renewed conflicts as repurchase
demands rise on loans issued before and after the mortgage boom
of 2006 and 2007. New requests on loans made prior to 2006
advanced 3.7 percent to $763 million in the third quarter, while
demands on mortgages issued after 2007 jumped 64 percent to $615
million.  “We’ve seen some stuff come over the wall that’s older
than what we historically have seen,” Chief Financial Officer
 Bruce Thompson  said on a conference call with reporters today.  Bank of America said in January it was setting aside about
$3 billion to settle with the so-called government-sponsored
entities. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said that
month he was “pleased to put the GSEs behind us.” In an Aug. 4
filing, Bank of America said new demands from the U.S.-backed
firms were greater than expected.  Loan Quality  “Freddie Mac’s focus on loan quality is more important
than ever,” said Doug Duvall, a spokesman for the McLean,
Virginia-based firm, in an e-mail. “Taxpayers shouldn’t have to
pay for losses related to the sale of bad loans to Freddie
Mac.” Fannie Mae’s  Andrew Wilson  declined to comment.  The disputes occur when investors say they were duped on
mortgage deals by misrepresentations such as inflated borrowers’
income or overstated property values. Bank of America has said
some of the claims are unwarranted.  The bank agreed to repurchase $2.24 billion of faulty loans
in the third-quarter, more than double the $1 billion it
reported for the same period a year earlier. Outstanding claims
from Fannie and Freddie fell 7.1 percent in three months to
$4.72 billion as of Sept. 30, while total demands, which also
include claims from private investors and insurers, gained less
than 1 percent in the same period to $11.7 billion.  The third-quarter provision for faulty loans was $278
million and “related primarily” to  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac,
Bank of America said.  “Our repurchase experience with the GSEs continues to
evolve,” the company said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 