-- 
BofA’s Drop in Trading Revenue Exceeds Citi’s

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-10-18T15:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/bofa-s-71-drop-in-trading-revenue-exceeds-citi-s.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-
largest U.S. lender by assets, posted a third-quarter plunge in
trading revenue that was more than twice as big as any U.S.
rival so far.  Trading revenue was $1.07 billion excluding an accounting
gain, a 71 percent decrease from the second quarter, according
to  figures  released today by the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
company. Fixed-income, currency and commodities trading
generated $314 million, the lowest amount since 2008, while
equities revenue was $757 million excluding debt-valuation
adjustments, or DVA.  The global banking and markets division, overseen by co-
Chief Operating Officer Thomas K. Montag, trailed  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , whose trading revenue fell 28 percent from the second
quarter to $3.85 billion.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s declined 31 percent
to $2.56 billion. Bank of America’s trading revenue had topped
both rivals in the year-earlier period, excluding DVA.  “Brutal trading results” were among the biggest
disappointments in Bank of America’s results,  Glenn Schorr , an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York , wrote today in a
note to investors.  The decline in trading revenue helped lead the banking and
markets unit to its first loss since at least the first quarter
of 2009, the furthest back the bank reports results for the
division. The lender’s stock advanced in New York trading as
overall results swung to a profit on higher revenue, better
 credit quality  and one-time gains.  Proprietary Trading  Fixed-income results were affected as the company wound
down its proprietary trading business, which makes bets with the
firm’s own money and contributed $434 million in the first half
of the year and zero in the third quarter, Chief Financial
Officer  Bruce Thompson  said today on a conference call with
analysts. A slow market for new bond issues also hurt the FICC
unit, Thompson said.  While structured-credit trading and the fair-value loan
book posted small losses, the firm didn’t incur “significant
losses” in any one area, Thompson said. Revenue at the rates
and currency trading businesses fell 14 percent from the second
quarter, he said.  “Obviously the volatility in the credit markets were
particularly challenging in August and September,” Thompson
said. “To date, I would say October has been a fair bit
better” than August and September.  ‘Uniquely Difficult’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said today that trading revenue
climbed about 5 percent from the second quarter to $3.61
billion, excluding DVA.  Stock and bond markets were roiled during the quarter by
 Standard & Poor’s  decision to downgrade the U.S. government’s
debt rating, a protracted Congressional debate over raising the
government’s borrowing limit and the  Federal Reserve ’s decision
to leave rates near zero until 2013 to combat stalling economic
growth. Debate among European policy makers about how to solve
deteriorating government finances and whether to add capital to
banks also fueled investor concerns that missteps might lead to
a new financial crisis.  The S&P 500 Index dropped 14 percent during the quarter,
the worst decline since the fourth quarter of 2008, and the
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, which
measures the cost of buying insurance against drops in the  S&P
500 Index (SPX) , surged 160 percent to its highest quarterly reading
since the first three months of 2009.  “You have to appreciate how uniquely difficult the third
quarter was,” Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners
LLC in New York, said in an interview with Betty Liu on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” “The correlation
between asset classes, product sets and geographies was so
unusual in the third quarter. There was no place to hide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  