-- 
BofA Said to Split Regulators Over Moving Merrill Derivatives to Bank Unit

-- B y   B o b   I v r y ,   H u g h   S o n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-10-18T17:56:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/bofa-said-to-split-regulators-over-moving-merrill-derivatives-to-bank-unit.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , hit by a
credit downgrade last month, has moved derivatives from its
Merrill Lynch unit to a subsidiary flush with insured deposits,
according to people with direct knowledge of the situation.  The Federal Reserve and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
disagree over the transfers, which are being requested by
counterparties, said the people, who asked to remain anonymous
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. The Fed has
signaled that it favors moving the derivatives to give relief to
the bank holding company, while the FDIC, which would have to
pay off depositors in the event of a bank failure, is objecting,
said the people. The bank doesn’t believe regulatory approval is
needed, said people with knowledge of its position.  Three years after taxpayers rescued some of the biggest
U.S. lenders, regulators are grappling with how to protect FDIC-
insured bank accounts from risks generated by investment-banking
operations. Bank of America, which got a $45 billion bailout
during the financial crisis, had $1.04 trillion in deposits as
of midyear, ranking it second among U.S. firms.  “The concern is that there is always an enormous
temptation to dump the losers on the insured institution,” said
William Black, professor of economics and law at the University
of Missouri-Kansas City and a former bank regulator. “We should
have fairly tight restrictions on that.”  Accommodating Clients  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, declined to comment on the transfers or
the firm’s discussions with regulators. The company “continues
to accommodate the needs of our clients through each of our
multiple trading entities, including Bank of America NA,” he
said in an e-mailed statement, referring to the company’s
deposit-taking unit.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman, said she couldn’t
discuss supervision of specific institutions. Greg Hernandez, an
FDIC spokesman, declined to comment.  Bank of America posted a $6.2 billion third-quarter profit
today, compared with a loss of $7.3 billion a year earlier, as
 credit quality  improved and the firm booked one-time accounting
gains. The lender rose 7.3 percent to $6.47 at 1:54 p.m. in  New
York  trading, making it the day’s best performer in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average . Credit-default swaps on Bank of
America eased 10 basis points to a mid-price of 380 as of 11:49
a.m. in New York, according to broker Phoenix Partners Group.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Bank of America’s
long-term credit ratings Sept. 21, cutting both the holding
company and the retail bank two notches apiece. The holding
company fell to Baa1, the third-lowest investment-grade rank,
from A2, while the retail bank declined to A2 from Aa3.  Moody’s Downgrade  The Moody’s downgrade spurred some of Merrill’s partners to
ask that contracts be moved to the retail unit, which has a
higher  credit rating , according to people familiar with the
transactions. Transferring derivatives also can help the parent
company minimize the collateral it must post on contracts and
the potential costs to terminate trades after Moody’s decision,
said a person familiar with the matter.  Bank of America estimated in an August regulatory filing
that a two-level downgrade by all ratings companies would have
required that it post $3.3 billion in additional collateral and
termination payments, based on over-the-counter derivatives and
other trading agreements as of June 30. The figure doesn’t
include possible collateral payments due to “variable interest
entities,” which the firm is evaluating, it said in the filing.  Dubrowski declined to comment on collateral or termination
payments after the downgrade.  ‘Be Prepared’  Bank of America’s rating is now four grades below the one
Moody’s assigned to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S. bank 
by deposits at midyear, and a level below the rating given to
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest. Bank of America is the only
U.S. lender that lacks a rating of A3 or higher among the five
firms listed by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency as
having the biggest derivatives books.  “We had worked very hard over the course of the last nine
months to be prepared to the extent that we did receive a
downgrade, and feel very good about the way that we’ve minimized
the potential impact” Bank of America Chief Financial Officer
 Bruce Thompson  said in a conference call today with analysts.
“Since the downgrade, we have not seen any change in our global
excess liquidity sources.”  Derivatives are financial instruments used to hedge risks
or for speculation. They’re derived from stocks, bonds, loans,
currencies and commodities, or linked to specific events such as
changes in the weather or interest rates.  Dodd-Frank Rules  Keeping such deals separate from FDIC-insured savings has
been a cornerstone of U.S. regulation for decades, including
last year’s Dodd-Frank overhaul of Wall Street regulation.  The legislation gave the FDIC, which liquidates failing
banks, expanded powers to dismantle large financial institutions
in danger of failing. The agency can borrow from the Treasury
Department to finance the biggest lenders’ operations to stem
bank runs. It’s required to recoup taxpayer money used during
the resolution process through fees on the largest firms.  Bank of America benefited from two injections of U.S.
bailout funds during the financial crisis. The first, in 2008,
included $15 billion for the bank and $10 billion for Merrill,
which the bank had agreed to buy. The second round of $20
billion came in January 2009 after Merrill’s losses in its final
quarter as an independent firm surpassed $15 billion, raising
doubts about the bank’s stability if the takeover proceeded. The
U.S. also offered to guarantee $118 billion of assets held by
the combined company, mostly at Merrill. The company repaid
federal bailout funds in 2009 with interest.  ‘The Normal Course’  Bank of America’s holding company -- the parent of both the
retail bank and the Merrill Lynch securities unit -- held almost
$75 trillion of derivatives at the end of June, according to
 data compiled  by the OCC. About $53 trillion, or 71 percent,
were within Bank of America NA, according to the data, which
represent the notional values of the trades.  That compares with JPMorgan’s deposit-taking entity,
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, which contained 99 percent of the New
York-based firm’s $79 trillion of notional derivatives, the OCC
data show.  The moves by Bank of America are part of “the normal
course of dealings that we’ve had with counterparties since
Merrill Lynch and BofA came together,” Thompson said today.  ‘Created a Firewall’  Moving derivatives contracts between units of a  bank
holding company  is limited under Section 23A of the Federal
Reserve Act, which is designed to prevent a lender’s affiliates
from benefiting from its federal subsidy and to protect the bank
from excessive risk originating at the non-bank affiliate, said
 Saule T. Omarova , a law professor at the University of  North
Carolina  at Chapel Hill School of Law.  “Congress doesn’t want a bank’s FDIC insurance and access
to the Fed discount window to somehow benefit an affiliate, so
they created a firewall,” Omarova said. The discount window has
been open to banks as the lender of last resort since 1914.  As a general rule, as long as transactions involve high-
quality assets and don’t exceed certain quantitative
limitations, they should be allowed under the  Federal Reserve 
Act, Omarova said.  In 2009, the Fed granted Section 23A  exemptions  to the
banking arms of Ally Financial Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, Fifth
Third Bancorp, ING Groep NV, General Electric Co., Northern
Trust Corp., CIT Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., among others, according to letters posted on the
Fed’s  website .  The central bank terminated exemptions last year for
retail-banking units of JPMorgan, Citigroup, Barclays Plc, Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc and Deutsche Bank AG. The Fed also ended an
exemption for Bank of America in March 2010 and in September of
that year approved a new one.  Section 23A “is among the most important tools that U.S.
bank regulators have to protect the safety and soundness of U.S.
banks,”  Scott Alvarez , the Fed’s general counsel, told Congress
in March 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Ivry in New York at   bivry@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 