-- 
Bank of America Swings to Profit on Higher Revenue, Better Credit Quality

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-10-18T21:05:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/bofa-swings-to-profit-as-cost-of-bad-credit-eases.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , this year’s
worst performer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , swung to a
third-quarter profit on higher revenue, better credit quality
and one-time gains. The stock jumped in New York trading.  Net income of $6.23 billion, or 56 cents a diluted share,
compared with a loss of $7.3 billion, or 77 cents, a year
earlier, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender said today
in a statement. Total revenue rose 6 percent to $28.7 billion,
beating the consensus of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “You’re knocking it out of the park with $3 billion
extra” in revenue compared with estimates, said  Michael Holland , chairman of New York-based Holland & Co., in an
interview with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Surveillance. For some investors, the issue is “the amount of
stuff that you have to go through to get to, ‘what is the health
of the business?’”  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, has presided
over a 50 percent drop in the stock this year. He vowed to make
the lender smaller and more profitable by divesting unnecessary
businesses, trimming $5 billion in costs, and eliminating 30,000
jobs. Moynihan agreed to sell almost $50 billion in assets and
units since taking over as CEO last year, and the bank lost its
status as the largest U.S. lender during the quarter.  One-Time Events  Bank of America advanced 10 percent to $6.64, making it the
day’s best performer in the Dow average.  The quarter’s results were skewed by one-time pretax gains
including $4.5 billion in fair-value adjustments of structured
liabilities, $3.6 billion from selling a stake in China
Construction Bank Corp. and $1.7 billion tied to changes in
value of the company’s debt. One-time pretax losses included
$2.2 billion related to private-equity investments.  The provision for loan losses dropped to $3.4 billion from
$5.4 billion a year earlier as credit improved in the card unit
and commercial lending, the bank said. The card unit swung to a
profit in the quarter, while income rose at the deposit unit,
global wealth and  investment management , and global commercial
banking.  Global banking and markets, which includes the investment
bank, posted a $302 million loss, compared with a $1.5 billion
profit a year earlier, on lower sales and trading revenue.  The bank’s mortgage division posted a $1.1 billion net
loss, wider than the $392 million year-earlier loss and smaller
than the $14.5 billion loss in the second quarter. Revenue
slipped 22 percent to $2.8 billion as the lender created fewer
mortgages. The provision for loan repurchase demands dropped to
$278 million from $14 billion in the second quarter.  Mortgage Claims  Bank of America has been plagued by claims tied to faulty
mortgages and foreclosures, which have cost about $40 billion
since the start of 2007. While the bank has been negotiating
with investors and U.S.-backed mortgage finance companies to
contain the expense, repurchase requests from  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  have “become increasingly inconsistent with our
interpretation of our contractual obligations,” the company
said today in a slide presentation.  One of Moynihan’s first public actions related to his cost-
cutting initiative, called Project New BAC, was a management
shakeup last month that elevated Thomas K. Montag and David Darnell to co-chief operating officers while leaving Sallie Krawcheck and  Joe Price  without jobs.  Merrill Derivatives  Montag runs businesses that deal with corporate or
institutional clients, including investment banking and trading,
and Darnell manages the consumer operations, encompassing the
retail bank and wealth management.  “The diversity and depth in our customer and client
offerings provided some resiliency in a very challenging
environment,” Moynihan said in today’s statement.  Bank of America, hit by a credit downgrade last month, has
moved derivatives from its Merrill Lynch unit to a subsidiary
flush with insured deposits, according to people with direct
knowledge of the situation.  The  Federal Reserve  and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
disagree over the transfers, which are being requested by
counterparties, said the people, who asked to remain anonymous
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. The Fed has
signaled that it favors moving the derivatives to give relief to
the  bank holding company , while the FDIC, which would have to
pay off depositors in the event of a bank failure, is objecting,
said the people. The bank doesn’t believe regulatory approval is
needed, said people with knowledge of its position.  Accommodating Customers  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for Bank of America, declined
to comment on the transfers or the firm’s discussions with
regulators. The company “continues to accommodate the needs of
our clients through each of our multiple trading entities,
including Bank of America NA,” he said in an e-mailed
statement, referring to the company’s deposit-taking unit.  Concerns over the European debt crisis and the possibility
the  U.S. economy  may relapse into recession have weighed on the
bank’s shares. The KBW Bank Index has slumped 30 percent this
year through yesterday, and Bank of America was the worst
performer among the 24 companies listed.  The bank lowered its risk tied to five European nations by
$2.1 billion in the third quarter, led by reductions in  Spain .
Sovereign and non-sovereign holdings tied to  Greece , Ireland,
 Italy ,  Portugal  and Spain declined to $14.6 billion as of Sept.
30 from $16.7 billion three months earlier, according to a
supplement posted on the bank’s website.  Bank of America may underperform peers in another U.S.
recession, while New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  may be best
positioned, John E. McDonald, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst, said in an Oct. 6 research note. Higher unemployment
would cause more foreclosure and mortgage costs, he wrote.  Rival Banks  Yesterday,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the No. 3 ranked U.S. lender at
midyear by assets, said net income jumped 74 percent to $3.77
billion including a $1.9 billion accounting gain.  Wells Fargo &
Co ., the No. 4 bank, said profit rose 22 percent to a record
$4.06 billion. New York-based JPMorgan -- which now ranks No. 1
by assets -- said last week that profit fell 4 percent to $4.26
billion.  Bank of America’s third-quarter 2010 loss was fueled by a
$10.4 billion writedown of its credit-card division after new
U.S. regulations reduced its value.  To help recoup lost revenue, the firm has added fee-based
checking and said some debit-card users would be charged $5 a
month. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo is testing a $3 monthly
fee, and similar charges have been imposed by Regions Financial
Corp. and SunTrust Banks Inc.  Bank of America’s plan sparked objections from critics
including President Barack Obama. Five House Democrats asked
Attorney General Eric Holder on Oct. 13 to investigate whether
banks and trade groups colluded on decisions to impose new fees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  