-- 
Brazil Rate Future Yields Fall as China Growth Slows; Real Gains

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-10-18T21:17:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/brazil-rate-futures-yields-decline-after-chinese-growth-slows.html
Yields on most Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts fell as slowing economic growth in  China ,
the Latin American country’s largest trading partner, prompted
traders to step up bets on an interest-rate cut tomorrow. The
real gained.  Yields on the futures contract due January 2013 fell eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 10.47 percent.
Futures contracts show traders are anticipating the central bank
will lower the benchmark interest rate a half percentage point
from 12 percent at their two-day policy meeting ending tomorrow,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, reported the
slowest gross domestic product growth in two years today. The
real rose after the Guardian reported that Germany and  France 
will boost the European rescue fund to 2 trillion euros ($2.75
trillion) to resolve the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  “The central bank has all the arguments to cut the
interest rate at a faster pace, even though maintaining the 50
basis point cut would be better for inflation expectations,”
 Andre Perfeito , the chief-economist at Gradual Investimentos,
said in an interview in  Sao Paulo .  The real rose 1.1 percent to 1.7543 per  U.S. dollar , from
1.7741 yesterday. It has gained 7.1 percent this month, the most
among 25 emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  This weekend’s debt-crisis summit may back the expansion of
the rescue fund, the U.K.-based Guardian reported, citing
unnamed European Union diplomats. Steffen Seibert, German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman, declined to comment.  The real tumbled 2.3 percent yesterday as speculation that
there won’t be any quick fix to the European debt crisis
prompted investors to sell emerging-market assets.  ‘International Scenario’  “The international scenario is not as bad today,” Ures Folchini, head of fixed-income at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA,
said in a telephone interview.  Brazilian policy makers cut the benchmark rate a half
percentage point from 12.5 percent on Aug. 31, after raising it
five times this year to curb inflation. The decision surprised
all 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, who had expected no
change.  Fifty-nine of 66 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect
policy makers to lower the benchmark  interest rate  50 basis
points, or 0.5 percentage point, tomorrow. Five economists
surveyed expect a 75-basis-point cut to 11.25 percent. Zeina Latif at RBS Securities Inc. and Alfredo Coutino at Moody’s
Economy predict a reduction to 11 percent.  Investigation  The central bank denied that anyone could have prior
knowledge of its interest-rate decisions after newspapers
reported that the securities regulator is investigating
“atypical” movements in interest-rate futures contracts ahead
of the surprise Aug. 31 rate cut.  The central bank said in a statement today that it’s
“impossible” to learn of decisions in advance because they are
taken in a closed meeting by the board and then immediately
communicated to the public.  Rio de Janeiro-based O Globo  newspaper reported  Oct. 15,
citing a person it didn’t identify, that the regulator is
investigating because “two or three” unidentified banks
changed their position to bets that policy makers would cut
rates in the days prior to the meeting. Other newspapers,
including O Estado de S.Paulo, also said an investigation is in
progress.  The regulator declined to comment in an e-mailed statement.  Jobs Growth  Brazil’s annual inflation rate rose to 7.31 percent last
month, the highest in six years. Central bank President
Alexandre Tombini aims to lower inflation to 4.5 percent by the
end of next year, a target that economists say he will fail to
meet.  Consumer prices will increase 5.61 percent next year,
according to the median forecast in an Oct. 14 central bank
survey of about 100 economists published yesterday, up from a
forecast of 5.59 percent the previous week. Economists also
raised their 2013 inflation forecast to 4.9 percent from 4.85
percent.  Brazil ’s economy created 209,078 government-registered jobs
in September, after adding 190,446 in August, the Labor Ministry
said today in Brasilia. The gain compares with a forecast of
168,625 jobs, according to the median estimate from 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  