-- 
Britain Freezes Assets of 5 Iranians in Alleged Saudi Plot

-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-18T14:26:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/britain-freezes-assets-of-5-iranians-in-alleged-saudi-plot-1-.html
Britain froze the assets of five
Iranian men over the alleged plot to assassinate  Saudi Arabia ’s
ambassador to the U.S. in a bomb attack.  Those affected include both men charged by the U.S. in the
case: Manssor Arbabsiar, 56, and Gholam Shakuri, according to  a
statement  released by the Treasury in  London  yesterday. The
others were identified as Hamed Abdollahi, 51; Abdul Reza
Shahlai, and Qasem Soleimani, 54. The Treasury said it was
acting under the  Terrorist Asset-Freezing Act 2010 .  The U.S. Justice Department accused Iran on Oct. 11 of
sponsoring a plot to assassinate the Saudi envoy, Adel Al- Jubeir, in  Washington . The announcement has led to an escalation
of tension between the two Persian Gulf nations, with Saudi
Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal saying Oct. 13 that the
“dastardly act” reflects  Iran ’s policies and that his country
will hold Iran “accountable for any action taken.”         In
Washington, the Obama administration welcomed the U.K.’s
announcement of sanctions. “This sends yet another message that
the international community rejects this flagrant violation of
international law,” White House spokesman Tommy Vietor said
today in a statement.  Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast   told
reporters in Tehran today that the U.S. allegation is
“baseless” and “aims to create a rift” between Iran and
Saudi Arabia, the top two producers in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries and regional rivals.  Conspiracy Charge  Arbabsiar, a U.S. resident with dual U.S. and Iranian
citizenship, conspired for several months in the murder-for-hire
plot with Shakuri, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in
a criminal complaint unsealed Oct. 11.  Shakuri was a member of Iran’s Quds Force, the U.S. said in
the complaint. Others from the Quds Force were also involved and
helped bankroll the plot, which was to have cost $1.5 million,
prosecutors said.  The U.S. State Department has described the Quds Force as
an arm of the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps that
conducts “covert operations abroad” and has sponsored attacks
against U.S. coalition forces in  Iraq .  Shakuri remains at large. Arbabsiar was arrested on Sept.
29 at  New York ’s John F. Kennedy International Airport as he got
off a flight from  Mexico . He is being held without bail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  