-- 
Builder Debt Tripling as Western Europe Shuns New Borrowing: Poland Credit

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-10-19T10:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/builder-debt-jumps-as-west-europe-cuts-borrowing-poland-credit.html
Poland ’s construction industry
increased debt almost three-fold in the past year to finance the
nation’s biggest highway-building boom, boosting the risks of
higher borrowing costs as loans come due.  While west European companies in the Stoxx 600 Construction
& Materials Index reduced net debt 4.4 percent in the 12 months
from June 30, 2010, liabilities of 31 publicly-traded Polish
builders rose to a record 3.7 billion zloty ($1.2 billion), data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Payment delays and foreign
competition for contracts before European soccer championships
added to the debt, raising the prospect of higher costs, said
Przemyslaw Szkudlarczyk, chief financial officer at  PBG SA (PBG) ,
Poland’s third-largest builder by sales.  Budostal 5 SA (BL5) , the last construction company to issue zloty
bonds, paid 720 basis points, or 7.2 percentage points, above
the benchmark three-month Warsaw interbank offered rate on
unrated two-year notes sold Aug. 5, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Investors demand 347 basis points in extra yield to own
seven-year bonds of Vienna-based  Strabag SE (STR) , which has at least
28 road projects in Poland, rather than similar maturity German
debt, up from 200 basis points when they were issued in May.  “Market sentiment toward construction companies in Poland
is very negative because debt is high and there’s uncertainty
about future contracts,” Michal Oleszkiewicz, a fixed-income
portfolio manager at Warsaw-based pension fund Nordea PTE SA
with the equivalent of $3.1 billion of assets, said by phone
yesterday. “If a building company were to sell bonds now it
would have to pay far more than a year ago, with a spread
widening by more than 100 basis points.”  ‘Reduced Exposure’  Aviva Investors Poland SA, which runs Poland’s second-
largest mutual fund, with the equivalent of $3.1 billion of
assets, “reduced exposure to the construction and property
development sectors in the past year as risks are growing,”
said Dariusz Kedziora, a  fund manager  at Aviva in Warsaw.  Poland, the largest post-communist country to join the EU,
with 38 million people, was the bloc’s biggest recipient of
funds in the 2007 to 2013 budget, taking 67 billion euros ($92
billion) in aid to reduce differences between richer and poorer
regions. More than 10 billion euros is being used to help
Poland’s plans to nearly double the length of its highways
before hosting the European soccer championships in 2012,
according to Poland’s road-building agency.  Best to Worst  The funds turned builders into Poland’s best performing
stocks between May 2004, when the country joined the EU, and
December last year, with the index gaining 173 percent. That
compares with the 56 percent increase in the benchmark WIG20
Index. Construction stocks dropped 50 percent this year, three
times more than the decline in the WIG20, as foreign companies,
including Strabag, Dublin-based SIAC Construction Ltd, and China
Overseas Engineering Group Co. Ltd., competed for business.  “Contracts are less profitable than investors had earlier
thought, and builders have to put up their own money to complete
the work because payment periods for state contracts are very
long,” said Ewa Radkowska-Swieton, the head of investment at
ING PTE SA, Poland’s biggest pension fund, with the equivalent
of $17 billion of assets. “The next problem is what happens
when all these EU-financed investments end. We have money until
2013 and we don’t know what will happen afterward.”  ‘Temporary Phenomenon’  PBG has plunged 62 percent this year, the most among
companies in the WIG20 Index. The shares were unchanged at 82
zloty at 10:43 a.m. in Warsaw, valuing the company at 1.2
billion zloty.  Rising debt is a “temporary phenomenon” and should start
falling once the government settles bills for road projects,
Szkudlarczyk said by phone from Wysogotowo, in western Poland.  PBG sold floating-rate notes due in 2013 last year at 280
basis points above the Warsaw interbank rate, or Wibor.  Erbud SA (ERB) 
paid 340 basis points over six-month Wibor in July, while
property developer Ghelamco Invest Sp. z o.o. paid 500 basis
points over the rate on three-year bonds sold in August.  Most corporate bonds in Poland are held to maturity by
their initial buyers, curbing secondary trade and limiting
information on pricing, according to Kamil Stolarski, a Warsaw-
based analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  Price Competition  Profit margins on road contracts halved to about 1 percent
to 2 percent of sales as “the whole world came to Poland to
build and we had to compete on price,”  Polimex-Mostostal SA (PXM) 
Chief Executive Officer Konrad Jaskola said in an interview on
Oct. 11. Companies wait more than 100 days to get payments from
the government’s road-building agency, which increases financial
costs, he said.  The cost to insure Polish debt against non-payment for five
years through credit-default swaps has dropped 61 basis points,
or 0.61 percentage point, this month to 235 today, a one-month
low, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Polish default swaps cost 66 basis points less than the
average for countries in eastern  Europe , the  Middle East  and
 Africa  included in Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index today,
compared with an 85 basis-point discount a year ago.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Spreads Narrow  The extra yield investors demand to hold Poland’s dollar-
denominated bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 11 basis
points to 247 today, indexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
showed. The spread over German euro-denominated bonds declined
10 basis points to 367. The difference is down from 443 basis
points on Sept. 22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The zloty strengthened 0.4 percent to 4.3329 per euro
today. The currency has climbed 2 percent against the euro this
month after losing 10 percent in the third quarter, the most
among the 177 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The zloty also
lost 17 percent against the dollar last quarter.  “I’m moderately optimistic about the building industry,”
Przemyslaw Gdanski, board member at  BRE Bank SA (BRE) , the country’s
third-largest bank said in an interview on Oct. 4. “Companies
have won huge orders and still there will be a lot to build in
this country. The amount of debt is a measure of companies’
involvement in the big contracts they are carrying out now.”  Investment Spree  Including road-building, investments in power generation,
mining and infrastructure are set to total 500 billion zloty in
Poland over the next 10 years, according to estimates by
consulting company McKinsey & Co. in September.  Poland’s largest utilities -- PGE SA, Tauron Polska Energia
SA and Enea SA -- will need to raise funds as early as next
year. The domestic corporate bond and commercial paper market,
with a total outstanding value of 43 billion zloty at the end of
September may not be able to absorb the utilities’ investment
spree, forcing them to issue bonds on international markets,
according to  Fitch Ratings .  “We’ve steered clear of Polish construction companies for
a while now as prospects for the industry aren’t encouraging,”
Jakub Taborowicz, a fixed-income portfolio manager at the asset
management unit of PZU SA in Warsaw, Poland’s largest insurer,
said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  