-- 
Bulgaria to Cut 2011, 2012 GDP Growth, Budget Gap Forecasts

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-10-18T13:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/bulgaria-to-cut-2011-2012-gdp-growth-budget-gap-forecasts-1-.html
Bulgaria will lower its economic
growth and  budget-deficit  forecasts for this year and next, as
the euro-area debt crisis crimps expansion in the country’s
major trading partners, Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov  said.  The Balkan nation’s economy will probably grow 2.8 percent
this year and 2.9 percent in 2012, lower than initial forecasts
of 3.6 percent and 4.1 percent, respectively, Djankov told
reporters in Bucharest today. The country will run a budget
deficit of around 2 percent of gross domestic product in 2011
and between 1 percent and 1.3 percent of GDP next year, he said.  “The global slowdown, but particularly pronounced in
Europe” prompted the revision, Djankov said. “European
politicians, with the help of the  International Monetary Fund ,
were too slow in taking the difficult decisions on  Greece  in
some of the other euro-zone countries and the result is that
we’re all suffering from this slowdown.”  Bulgaria ’s economic recovery faltered in the second quarter
this year, with growth slowing to the weakest in three quarters,
as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis led to an economic slowdown in
its main trading partners, which buy about 60 percent of the
eastern European country’s exports.  Slowing Growth  Second-quarter GDP growth slowed to 2 percent from 3.3
percent in the previous three months, while seasonally adjusted
GDP advanced 0.3 percent in the quarter.  Djankov said Bulgaria won’t sell bonds on international
markets next year to finance its budget deficit as the country
has enough fiscal reserves to ensure funding.  Bulgaria’s inflation rate will probably decline
“significantly” to about 2.5 percent this year, lower than a
previous forecast of 3.3 percent and will end 2012 at between 2
percent to 2.2 percent “thanks to the economic slowdown across
 Europe ,” Djankov said.  Inflation slowed to 3.3 percent in September from a year
earlier from 4.1 percent in August as the domestic harvest held
down food costs and prices of leisure activities declined, the
National Statistics Institute in the capital, Sofia, said on
Oct. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  