-- 
Buyer Can’t Sue After Bad Foreclosure Sale

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-10-18T20:58:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/buyer-can-t-bring-case-after-bad-foreclosure-sale-court-rules.html
A  Massachusetts  man who bought
property in a faulty foreclosure sale isn’t the true owner and
so doesn’t have the right to sue over it, the state’s high court
ruled.  The  Supreme Judicial Court , which in January found that
banks can’t foreclose on a house if they don’t own the mortgage,
went one step further in a closely watched case and said a sale
after that foreclosure doesn’t transfer the property. Therefore,
the buyer couldn’t bring his court action against a previous
owner, the court ruled.  The high court upheld a lower-court  decision  that said
Francis J. Bevilacqua III, the buyer of residential property in
Haverhill, Massachusetts, never owned it because U.S. Bancorp
foreclosed before it got the mortgage. Today’s ruling could have
implications in the foreclosure crisis, in which banks are
accused of clouding home titles through sloppy transferring of
mortgages.  “By alleging that  U.S. Bank  was not the assignee of the
mortgage at the time of the purported foreclosure, Bevilacqua is
necessarily asserting that the power of sale was not complied
with, that the purported sale was invalid, and that his
grantor’s title was defective,” the court wrote. “In light of
its defective title, the intention of U.S. Bank to transfer the
property to Bevilacqua is irrelevant and he cannot have become
the owner of the property pursuant to the quitclaim deed.”  ‘Disappointed’ in Ruling  Jeffrey B. Loeb, a lawyer for Bevilacqua, said that while
he is “disappointed” in the ruling, it holds out a possible
solution for so-called third-party buyers: re-foreclosure.  “It reaffirms the concept that a defective foreclosure
deed operates as an assignment of the mortgage and if you can
trace the ownership of the mortgage, that person would have the
right to re-foreclose,” said Loeb, of Rich May PC in Boston.  The state high court’s January ruling in the earlier case,
U.S. Bank v. Ibanez, didn’t address the status of third-party
buyers who purchase property from someone who conducted an
invalid foreclosure.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association  and the  American Land
Title Association  wrote friend-of-the-court briefs against the
lower-court Bevilacqua decision. Massachusetts Attorney General
 Martha Coakley  wrote one arguing the decision should be upheld.
The court heard oral arguments May 2.  ‘Domino Effect’  “In the rush to foreclose, the banks’ reckless origination
and foreclosure practices have created a domino effect that has
harmed Massachusetts homeowners as well as third-party
purchasers,” Coakley said in a statement today. “This is yet
another clear demonstration that the only way we are going to
restore a healthy economy is to address the foreclosure crisis
and hold the banks accountable for their actions.”  Bevilacqua bought the property in 2006 from U.S. Bancorp,
which oversees the mortgage-backed trust containing the loan.
The bank isn’t a party to the case.  “The court said he doesn’t have ownership rights but he
has rights as a mortgagee and so he has the right to
foreclose,” Loeb said.  Re-foreclosure may present problems because someone else
could win the auction, Richard D. Vetstein, a real-estate lawyer
in Framingham, Massachusetts, who has represented clients in
situations similar to Bevilacqua’s, said in a phone interview.  ‘High and Dry’  “They’re saying the innocent third-party purchaser,
they’re out of luck,” Vetstein said of the Bevilacqua decision.
“The court ruled that not only doesn’t he own it, but he has no
standing under that procedural mechanism to have the court
decree him as the owner. It’s another Ibanez case, where an
innocent person bought at foreclosure and he’s left high and
dry.”  Vetstein said one option is to track down the previous
owner and get a deed from that person. Bevilacqua never located
the previous owner. The situation is especially difficult for
owners without title insurance, Vetstein said.  The Ibanez and Bevilacqua cases both originated before
Massachusetts Land Court Judge Keith C. Long in  Boston .  Bevilacqua went to Long’s court to force the original owner
to say whether he had a claim on the property. A city assessment
 website  lists four condominiums at the location with four
separate owners and a total value of $600,300.  In August 2010, Long ruled that Bevilacqua wasn’t the
property’s owner and didn’t have standing to inquire about
claims. U.S. Bancorp conducted an invalid foreclosure because it
didn’t properly own the mortgage when it sold the property to
Bevilacqua, Long said. The mortgage was assigned to it after the
foreclosure sale by Merscorp Inc.’s Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems, a national database of mortgages.  ‘Invalid Foreclosure’  All Bevilacqua had was a deed from an invalid foreclosure
sale, the judge said.  The servicer of the mortgage-backed trust the loan was in
would have handled the foreclosure and sale, not U.S. Bancorp,
Teri Charest, a spokeswoman for the Minneapolis-based bank, said
in January.  In his appeal, Bevilacqua argued that Long confused
requirements for the law used to prove one’s title to a property
with those for the law he sued under. Through that law, the so-
called try-title statute, one party seeks to force another to
assert or waive a potential claim on the property.  Bevilacqua argued that he had the right to bring the try-
title case because he had “record title” to the property
through the deed he got from U.S. Bancorp.  Justice Francis X. Spina, who wrote the opinion, said it
had been more than a century since the court had addressed the
question of standing in try-title cases.  The case is Bevilacqua v. Rodriguez, 10880,  Supreme
Judicial Court  of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  