-- 
HTC, Samsung, Lodsys, Urban Outfitters, Debeers: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-18T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/htc-samsung-lodsys-urban-outfitters-intellectual-property.html
HTC Corp., the second-largest maker
of devices using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, lost a ruling
in a patent case against Apple Inc. that sought to block U.S.
imports of the iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad.  The Apple devices don’t violate HTC’s rights to four
patents, U.S. International Trade Commission Judge Charles Bullock said in a notice yesterday. The full six-member
commission in Washington may choose to review the findings, with
the investigation scheduled to be completed by Feb. 17.  Apple, with competition emerging for its top-selling iPhone
and iPad, has accused Android-device makers HTC, Samsung
Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. of copying
its technology and has won court rulings in  Australia  and  Europe 
to limit sales of some Samsung products. The loss yesterday for
HTC is the first ruling in at least six ITC cases that rivals
had filed in retaliation against Apple.  “They’re prevailing a lot, they’re getting injunctions
against shipments against competing companies, and we haven’t
seen it the other way,”  Carl Howe , an analyst with Boston-based
research firm Yankee Group, said of Apple. “If you actually
develop the patents, you have a lot of ammunition that works in
court.”  Apple and Taoyuan, Taiwan-based ITC each have two ITC cases
pending against the other company. Yesterday’s  case , filed in
May 2010, accused Cupertino, California-based Apple of
infringing patents related to ways to manage a phone’s power
supply, protect data and store contact information.  “This is only one step of many in these legal
proceedings,” HTC General Counsel Grace Lei said in a
statement. “We are confident we have a strong case for the ITC
appeals process and are fully prepared to protect our
 intellectual property .”  The commission in a separate case is reviewing a judge’s
findings that HTC infringed two Apple patents. Also pending
before the agency is a case Apple filed seeking to block imports
of HTC’s Android phones and Flyer tablets. HTC filed a second
case against Apple, with a trial scheduled for August.  Notice of the judge’s findings yesterday didn’t include the
full text of the ruling, which will become available after HTC
and Apple get a chance to redact confidential information.  Yesterday’s HTC case focused on four patents, two of which
were acquired by company and two that were the result of
research within the company.  The two homegrown patents relate to a way to control how
the phone switches between different modes of operation to
manage the power supply and a method to protect data so it’s not
lost if the phone doesn’t have enough power supply.  The other two relate to ways to store, access and use
contact information in a phone’s address book. HTC acquired the
patents in 2009, about a year before Apple filed its first
complaint, according to information on the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office website.  The HTC case against Apple is In the Matter of Portable
Electronic Devices, 337-721, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  Samsung Sues Apple in  Japan , Australia to Halt IPhone 4S  Samsung Electronics Co. sued Apple Inc. in Japan and
Australia to stop sales of the iPhone 4S, escalating a legal
battle between the world’s two biggest makers of smartphones and
tablet computers.  Samsung also sought injunctions against the sale of the
iPad 2 and the previous generation iPhone 4 in Japan, the Suwon,
South Korea-based company said in a statement yesterday. Samsung
claimed Apple’s products infringe its patents covering wireless
communications and user-interface technologies.  Legal conflicts between the rivals have spread globally
since April when Apple claimed that Samsung’s Galaxy devices
“slavishly” copied the iPad and iPhone. An Australian court
last week blocked sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1, while Samsung
filed motions in France and  Italy  seeking to ban sales of
Apple’s latest handset.  “The legal battle is lasting longer and is more extensive
than originally expected,” James Song, a Seoul-based analyst at
Daewoo Securities Co., said by phone yesterday. “This kind of
legal saga isn’t good for both companies given their business
relationship. The parties will eventually seek to resolve the
issue.”  Apple, which is also one of the biggest buyers of chips and
displays from Samsung, had 19.1 percent of the global smartphone
market in the second quarter, with its South Korean rival
closing the gap and taking 16.2 percent, according to
Framingham, Massachusetts-based researcher IDC.  “It’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a
lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to
the user interface and even the packaging,” Steve Park, a
Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, said by phone yesterday,
responding to the court filing.  Apple is also suing Taoyuan, Taiwan-based  HTC Corp. (2498)  in the
U.S., alleging patent infringement. Samsung and HTC both use
Google Inc.’s Android platform, which has extended its lead in
smartphone operating systems over Apple’s iOS with 43 percent of
the market, according to Gartner Inc. Apple’s iOS leads the
market for tablet platforms, while Android will close the gap in
coming years, Gartner said.  Samsung filed motions in Paris and Milan earlier this month
citing two patent infringements on wireless telecommunications
technology, aiming to prevent the sale of the iPhone 4S.  The company has filed an appeal against an Oct. 13
Australian court ruling to grant a preliminary injunction
against the sale of its Galaxy Tab 10.1, Samsung said in today’s
statement.  Samsung filed the latest preliminary injunction motions in
Japan’s Tokyo District Court and in the New South Wales
Registry, Australia, it said.  App Developer for Apple’s iPhone Settles Patent Case With Lodsys  One of the developers of applications for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone settled a patent infringement suit brought by a  Texas 
company.  Michael Karr of Las Vegas was accused of infringing patents
owned by Lodsys LLC in a May 31 suit filed in federal court in
Marshall, Texas. Karr, who does business as Shovelmate, is the
creator of “ 69 Positions - Sex Positions ” application for
iPhone.  The application is presently offered for 99 cents in
Apple’s iTunes store to customers 17 years of age or older.  According to the case docket, a settlement document between
Karr and Marshall, Texas-based Lodsys was filed Oct. 12.
Although terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed, Lodsys asked
for money damages and a royalty for post-judgment infringement.  Karr sent an e-mail to the PaidContent.org website in which
he said he settled because he’s only a sophomore in college and
didn’t have the money to continue the lawsuit. He said he’d had
hopes Apple would have been able to intervene in the case and
“potentially even offer some sort of blanket coverage for small
developers, but this has not been the case.”  Cupertino-based Apple Inc. said in June that it would
defend Karr and the others in the case who were accused of
infringing two Lodsys patents. Apple contended that the app
makers were covered by its license with Lodsys.  In a  May 31 blog posting , Lodsys disagreed, saying “We
stand firm and restate our previous position that it is the
third party developers that are responsible for the infringement
of Lodsys’ patents and they are responsible for securing the
rights for their applications.”  The two patents at issue in the case are 7,620,565 B2,
issued in November 2009, in August 2010; and 7,222,078 B2,
issued in May 2007. Both were acquired by Lodsys in August 2010,
according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office database
listings of changes in patent ownership. The patents cover
methods of interacting with customers through software programs.  The case is Lodsys LLC v. Combay Inc., 2:11-cv-000272-DF,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  Microsoft Sues St. Clair, Vadem in State Court Over Patents  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest software maker, sued
patent-holder  St. Clair Intellectual Property Consultants Inc. 
and technology holding company Vadem Ltd. in Delaware Chancery
Court alleging breach of patent contracts.  The lawsuit, filed under seal in Wilmington Oct. 14, is
related to a federal court suit filed in the same city on April
7, 2010, in which Microsoft asked for a ruling that it doesn’t
infringe four former Vadem patents owned by St. Clair.  In Chancery Court documents made public yesterday,
Microsoft in minimal detail alleges “self-dealing, theft of
corporate opportunity, and breach of contract arising out of the
transfer of certain patents previously owned by Vadem.”  The federal case, in which Microsoft contends the patents
aren’t valid, is still in the information-gathering stage. The
federal case also relates to a 2009 case in which Grosse Pointe,
Michigan-based St. Clair accuses Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft of infringing the patents. Vadem is based in  San Jose ,
 California , according to patent papers.  Edmund Chung, a St. Clair spokesman, and officials at Vadem
didn’t immediately return phone or e-mail messages seeking
comment on the litigation.  In dispute are patents 5,710,929; 5,758,175, 5,892,959 and
6,079,025.  The case is Microsoft Corp. v. St. Clair Intellectual
Property Consultants Inc., CA6940, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Urban Outfitters’ ‘Navajo’ Panties Offend, Tribe Tells Retailer  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN) , the Philadelphia-based retail chain,
has been told by the Navajo Nation to quit selling Navajo-themed
products, including a “Navajo Hipster Panty” and a flask
wrapped in “Navajo Print Fabric,” the  Associated Press 
 reported .  The tribe sent the retail chain a letter saying the
products infringed trademarks, according to AP.  Dwayne Caluschee, a designer from a Navajo tribal area in
Arizona, told AP the use of “Navajo” on underwear offends the
tribe’s spiritual belief about modesty and calling a flask
“Navajo” is insensitive, given the Navajo Nation’s ban on the
sale and consumption of alcohol on the reservation.  Urban Outfitters’ company spokesman Ed Looram told AP the
term “Navajo” has been “cycling through fashion, fine art and
design for the last few years.”  De Beers, Hearts on Fire Settle Trademark Dispute Over ‘Sublime’  De Beers Diamond Jewellers Ltd. and  Hearts on Fire Co. 
settled a 2-month-old trademark-infringement case, according to
the court docket.  Boston-based Hearts on Fire filed suit in federal court in
 Boston , saying it objected to London-based De Beers’s use of
“Sublime Symmetry” and claimed this infringed Hearts on Fire’s
“Sublime” trademark.  That mark was registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office in February 2006, according to court papers. Hearts on
Fire said the phrase has become an identifier of its good and
services.  The London diamond company had filed an application March
30 to register “Sublime Symmetry” as a trademark and would use
it for the same classes of goods for which Hearts on Fire uses
“Sublime,” according to the complaint.  The most recent entry in the patent office file related to
this application is dated Aug. 27. On that date the patent
office sent De Beers a letter saying all action on the
application was suspended pending resolution of the dispute in
civil court.  The case was dismissed Sept. 13 following an agreement
between the parties, according a case filing. No terms of the
agreement were disclosed. Each party waived its right to appeal
the settlement, and had to pay its own litigation costs and
attorney fees.  The case is Hearts on Fire Co. v. De Beers Diamond
Jewellers Ltd., 1:11-cv-11391-WGY, U.S. District Court, District
of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Nigeria  Second Only to  China  in Software Piracy Rates, BSA Says  The  Business Software Alliance  trade group has ranked
software piracy rates in Nigerian second only to China’s,
AllAfrica.com news website  reported .  The Washington-based group surveyed 15,000 personal
computer users and found that 82 percent had illegally acquired
software, according to AllAfrica.com.  Seye Oluruntoba, who heads anti-piracy activities in
Nigeria for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft Corp., said many
people in that country aren’t clear on what constitutes piracy
and mistakenly think that “because they paid for the software,
it must be genuine,” AllAfrica.com reported.  The piracy rate in China is 86 percent and the worldwide
average is 47 percent, according to AllAfrica.com.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 