-- 
Cain Used Campaign Funds to Buy Autobiography From His Company

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 
2011-10-18T04:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/cain-used-campaign-funds-to-buy-autobiography.html
Republican presidential contender
 Herman Cain  used campaign funds to buy his own books from his
motivational speaking company,  Federal Election Commission 
records show.  Although his autobiography was published by a division of
Simon & Schuster Inc., Cain paid Stockbridge, Georgia-based
 T.H.E New Voice Inc.  $36,511 for books. His campaign spent $4
million through Sept. 30, including more than $64,000 paid to
his motivational speaking company for airfare, lodging and
supplies, as well as the books.  “They are buying my books and my pamphlets,” Cain said in
an interview in between appearances in Arizona yesterday. “The
campaign is buying them from T.H.E New Voice.”  Cain’s autobiography, “This is Herman Cain! My Journey to
the White House,” made its debut over the weekend in fourth
place on the New York Times bestseller list. Cain said the sales
are in compliance with FEC rules because the campaign is paying
the going rate for the material.  Bill Allison , editorial director at the Washington-based
Sunlight Foundation, a nonpartisan group that tracks political
money, said the transactions deserve scrutiny.  “All candidates publish books and they offer them as
premiums to donors, but most candidates aren’t buying them from
their own companies,” he said. “It raises the question of his
campaign contributions ending up in his own pocket.”  The books being bought are Cain’s autobiography and an
earlier volume, “They Think You’re Stupid: Why Democrats Lost
Your Vote and What Republicans Must Do to Keep It,” as well as
a pamphlet on leadership, Cain said.  Gifts for Supporters  The books are being given away to supporters to help Cain
acquaint them with his life story, part of his “unconventional
approach” to his candidacy, he said, adding that his campaign
has seen a $2 million windfall in donations in the last two
weeks after a surge in the polls.  The FEC has let campaigns buy candidates’ books as long as
they don’t profit by the sale. In 2001, the commission said the
campaign committee of then-Senator  Arlen Specter  of Pennsylvania
could buy the lawmaker’s autobiography to give to donors,
provided the he didn’t receive royalties or count those books in
calculations of future payments. The FEC issued a similar ruling
in 2004 concerning Connecticut Senator  Joe Lieberman , an
independent.  Gingrich Book  Another 2012 Republican presidential candidate,  Newt Gingrich , faced ethics issues over a $4.5 million book advance
he was offered in 1994 from a publishing unit of  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp., shortly before becoming House speaker.
Amid criticism from lawmakers from both parties, Gingrich agreed
to forgo the advance and just take royalties.  His  campaign website  features his wife Callista’s new
children’s book and a link to the Gingrichs’  production company 
with an opportunity to buy their new film.  While writing an autobiography has become common for a
presidential candidate, their manuscripts can create problems
beyond financial issues. Competitors routinely comb through them
searching for fodder to use on the campaign trail.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , another Cain rival for the
Republican presidential nomination, was forced on the defensive
during a Sept. 12 debate in Tampa,  Florida , over the criticism
of Social Security he made in his book.  Perry Book  “The real question is does Governor Perry continue to
believe that Social Security should not be a federal program,
that it is unconstitutional, and it should be returned to the
states, or is he going to retreat from that view,” said primary
rival  Mitt Romney , a former Massachusetts governor.  Perry said Romney was “trying to scare seniors.”  Romney claimed Perry made those accusations in his book. A
review of the book by Bloomberg found Perry raised questions
about the program but didn’t directly assert that it was
unconstitutional.  Perry made a similar book-based attack on Romney in an ad
last month and at the Republican debate in  Orlando  on Sept. 22.
Perry said Romney removed from the soft-cover version of his
book a sentence describing the Massachusetts health-care law he
signed as a model for the nation. Romney said in the debate that
he didn’t promote the state law as an example of what should be
adopted by the federal government.  Romney Book  “In my book, I said no such thing,” Romney said. “It’s
fine for you to retreat from your own words in your own book,
but please don’t try and make me retreat from the words that I
wrote in my book.”  The  Washington Post’s fact-check column  said Romney has a
long track record of saying that his health-care law wasn’t a
model for the U.S. and didn’t write that in his book.  Cain’s company website promotes both “This Is Herman
Cain!: My Journey to the White House” and a booklet,
“Leadership Requires Leadership.” His campaign website
includes a link to his company.  Gingrich, a former congressman from  Georgia , in 1988 led
the successful effort to bring down House Speaker Jim Wright, a
Texas Democrat, over Wright’s book deal. Supporters bought
thousands of copies of Wright’s book, allowing him to pocket the
royalties. Wright faced a House Ethics Committee investigation
and later resigned.  President  Barack Obama , who has penned an autobiography and
a political thesis, hasn’t used campaign funds to buy his books,
according to data from the  Center for Responsive Politics , a
Washington-based research group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Green in Scottsdale,  Arizona , at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  