-- 
Canada Dollar Strengthens on U.S. Economy, Report on European Debt Plans

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-10-18T21:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/canada-s-dollar-drops-as-stocks-crude-oil-fall-amid-curtailed-risk-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened against
the greenback on eased concern its largest trading partner may
be heading into recession after a report showed U.S. wholesale
prices rose in September more than forecast.  The Canadian currency rose versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as stocks and crude oil, Canada’s largest export,
climbed. The currency extended gains after the  Guardian
newspaper  said France and  Germany  have agreed to boost the
European rescue fund to 2 trillion euros ($2.8 trillion). The
two countries are still working on the bailout plan, said a
person with direct knowledge of the talks.  “It’s in the ballpark of what they need to convince the
markets they are serious, but they’ll have to have leverage to
get there and the appetite for leverage has been lukewarm,”
said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist in Toronto at TD
Securities Inc., a unit of Canada’s second largest bank, by e-
mail, referring to the European talks.  Canada’s currency climbed 0.9 percent at C$1.0141 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after declining 1.4 percent
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 98.61 U.S. cents.  TD kept its Canadian dollar forecast at C$1.04 by year-end
and was cut to C$1.09 from parity for the first quarter of next
year.  Dollar Demand  Some investors have taken the view that recent losses in
the Canadian dollar versus the greenback are unsustainable,
prompting them to “buy the Canadian dollar at about the
C$1.0250 level,” said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign
exchange in Toronto at Bank of Montreal, by e-mail. “We favor
being long the  U.S. dollar  for a move up to C$1.0320.” A long
position is a bet that an asset will increase in value.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2 percent. Crude oil
futures gained 2.4 percent to $88.37 a barrel in New York after
losing as much as 0.9 percent.  France and Germany have yet to agree on how to bolster the
European bailout fund as they seek to overcome technical hurdles
and to complete a plan to stem to debt crisis, said a person
with direct knowledge of the talks.  The two countries are working on how to increase the
effective power of the European Financial Stability Facility
rescue fund said the person, who declined to be named because
the talks are not public. Such a measure needs to be part of a
comprehensive agreement to help banks and  Greece , the person
said.  European Plans  European leaders have until an Oct. 23 summit to settle
differences and flesh out their strategy, they were told by
Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers last week in
Paris.  Canada’s currency reached 94.07 cents per U.S. dollar on
July 26, the highest since November 2007, on speculation an
accelerating global economy would consume more of the nation’s
raw materials. The currency has dropped about 8 percent since
then on concern European leaders won’t be able to prevent the
region’s sovereign debt crisis from spreading to banks.  “The drag on every risky asset is Europe,” said Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in  New York . “Until we have a better view of what they will do,
it will be very hard for a sustained period of positive risk
sentiment.”  Inflation Pace  The U.S. producer price index climbed 0.8 percent, the most
in five months, after no change in August, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington . Economists projected a 0.2
percent gain, according to the median of 71 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “I think we’ll see the Canadian dollar recover today after
we hit the sinkhole yesterday,” said Steven Butler, managing
director of foreign exchange trading in Toronto at the Bank of
Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, in an e-mail message.  Government debt fell, pushing the yield on Canada’s
benchmark 10-year bonds two basis points higher today to 2.31
percent, after it tumbled 11 basis points yesterday. Yields
traded about 13 basis points higher than similar-maturity  U.S.
government debt , from 31 basis points on Oct. 3.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, has declined 3.9
percent this year, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The greenback is down 2.1 percent. The yen is
up 4 percent.  Risk Analysis  “The risk-reward is for a higher Canada,” said  Michael O’Neill , vice president of foreign-exchange trading at RJOFX
Canada, a unit of RJ & O’Brien & Associates Inc., by phone from
Toronto. “All the bad news is out there. Canada is going to
continue to above par for year-end.”  The Canadian currency will trade at C$1.02 per U.S. dollar
by year-end, before appreciating to 98 cents by the end of next
year, according to the median of 35 economist and analyst
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “We like commodity currencies and currencies with exposure
to  Asia  because we think that’s going to be the high-growth area
going into 2012,” said  Steven Saywell , head of foreign-exchange
strategy for  Europe  at BNP Paribas SA, by phone from  London .
“Our top currency picks against a falling U.S. dollar are the
Australian dollar, the  New Zealand dollar  and the Canadian
dollar.” BNP predicted the loonie will rise to 94 cents against
the U.S. dollar by year-end and 90 cents by the end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  