-- 
Canada Opposition Parties Seek Hearings on Early Economic Data Releases

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-10-18T04:03:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/canada-opposition-seeks-hearings-on-early-data-release-policy.html
Canadian opposition parties are
pushing for hearings into Statistics  Canada ’s practice of
releasing economic reports a day before publication to at least
69 government workers and political aides.  Liberal lawmaker John McCallum said he will ask the House
of Commons Government Operations Committee to review the policy,
which investors said is undermining market confidence. The New
Democratic Party, the country’s biggest opposition group, said
it’s considering a similar move.  Finance Department officials and ministerial staff can see
up to nine different reports, including employment and inflation,
according to government documents requested by Bloomberg News
under freedom of information law, as well as responses to e-
mails and interviews. Staff at the Privy Council Office, the
international trade and human resources departments, and central
bank also see data early, officials said, bringing the tally to
at least 69.  “I think that’s far too many people receiving that
information,” said McCallum, a former chief economist at Royal
Bank of Canada who served as Canada’s revenue minister between
2004 and 2006. “Obviously the more people get it, the more
likely there will be a leak, or there will be inappropriate
behavior.”  The government should restrict early access to a “much
smaller group,” said Peggy Nash, finance spokeswoman with the
 New Democratic Party .  “Most of these insiders don’t need to have this data. They
can find out when the rest of Canadians find out,” Nash told
reporters in Ottawa.  ‘Serious Concern’  Karl Belanger, senior press secretary for the NDP, said the
party would support hearings as the issue raises a “serious
concern.”  Statistics Canada data drive movements in the $61.2 billion
daily market for the country’s dollar, as well as bonds and the
Toronto Stock Exchange. The currency jumped as much as 0.7
percent in the hour before stronger-than-forecast jobs data were
published in May 2009, leading to speculation by traders and
private-sector economists that the number in the report had been
disclosed. The agency found no evidence of a leak.  On the business day before publication, an analyst in the
Finance Department’s economic analysis and forecasting division
either goes to  Statistics Canada  to get a copy of the release,
or downloads an encrypted file, documents show. The analyst
gives a copy to three other senior officials in the department
and writes a so-called house card that prepares the minister for
questions in Parliament. A pool of 18 finance department
officials can see some or all of the reports at 2 p.m. Eight
others, including up to five political staff in the minister’s
office, have access at 5 p.m.  ‘Probably Be Less’  “It surprises me that the number is that big,” said Ed Devlin, the London-based head of Canadian  portfolio management 
at Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
largest bond fund, referring to the number who can see releases.
“It should probably be less.”  Former finance minister  Ralph Goodale , who held the
position between 2003 and 2006, said he would be informed by
phone of the data by the top bureaucrat in the department the
night before the official release.  “There was no broad discussion or circulation. That was a
private conversation. The deputy minister was alone and I was
alone, and it didn’t involve 69 people,” Goodale said in a
phone interview.  Reduce Number  The number of officials receiving early access should be
reduced, and those officials should be identified, he said. “If
they’re so important, then the public has a right to know who
they are.”  Procedures are also in place for advance access to specific
releases for 12 people at the Department of  Foreign Affairs  and
International Trade and 15 at Human Resources and Skills
Development, as well as about 15 at the Bank of Canada. Raymond
Rivet at the Privy Council Office, which supports the office of
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , declined to say how many people
have access, citing security reasons.  “Advance release information is provided to a restricted
number of authorized federal government organizations to ensure
they are in a position to react in a timely fashion when data
may have an impact on policy,” Statistics Canada spokesman
Peter Frayne said in an e-mail.  Access “is restricted to only those persons with a work-
related need,” Frayne said. “The data are delivered to them
through secure channels and the receiving organizations apply
strict security measures to protect the information.”  Suspicions of Leaks  Currency traders contacted the  Bank of Canada  in 2009 with
suspicions of data leaks, documents obtained by Bloomberg show.
As well, Statistics Canada released  an audit  from KPMG LLP
earlier this year saying the agency had automated computer
processes that inadvertently made economic data available to
data distributors before the official publication time for more
than six years. That process was stopped in November after
Statistics Canada learned of the early release.  Bank of Canada spokesman  Jeremy Harrison , and spokeswomen
Anna Maddison at human resources and Caitlin Workman at trade
said in separate e-mailed statements that they have strict
safeguards in place to protect advance data.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s office “treats
confidential data with extreme caution,” spokesman  Chisholm Pothier  said by e-mail. “The individuals receive the data to
properly brief the Minister on it and its broader policy
implications. It is reasonable and important for the Minister of
Finance to receive information in a timely fashion on news that
has an impact on the economy.”  Pool of Translators  Aside from the minimum of 69 government workers who are
authorized to receive at least one data report, Statistics
Canada had a pool of 40 external translation firms and
individuals who receive reports early so they can translate them
into English or French, Canada’s official languages, documents
show. The precise total of people with advance access couldn’t
be determined because both the  Privy Council Office  and
Statistics Canada refused to say how many people are authorized
to receive data early, citing security concerns.  The agency rejected a 2009 internal recommendation that it
“reinforce security and confidentiality” by hiring employees
to translate data. The proposal was turned down because the
C$90,000 ($88,500) in startup costs and C$66,000 per year in
additional ongoing expenses were judged to be too great,
documents obtained under Canada’s Access to Information law show.
Frayne said Statistics Canada continues to use external
translators.  Off the List  Industry Canada , the ministry responsible for Statistics
Canada, asked last year to be removed from the list of
departments that receive pre-released economic data, spokesman
Michel Cimpaye said in an e-mail.  Tony Clement , who was Industry Minister from October 2008
until May, said it isn’t necessary to involve so many people.  “It’s not rocket science to figure out for extremely
sensitive information to have a much more direct path to a
minister,” said Clement, who is now Canada’s Treasury Board
president, in an Oct. 13 interview at Bloomberg’s New York
headquarters. “There are easier ways to do it, quite frankly.”  Canada’s policies contrast with other countries that either
have more stringent rules governing pre-release of data, or have
moved to tighten access. Canada is one of 68 countries that
subscribe to the International Monetary Fund’s data
dissemination  standards , which set out best practices for
economic reports. More than half the countries ban all early
access to reports.  30 Minutes  In the U.S., the payrolls report is given to the president
through the Council of Economic Advisers office the night before
its release. The secretaries of labor, commerce and the treasury
only receive the information 30 minutes before it’s made public,
along with the Federal Reserve Chairman, according to the IMF.
Pre-release of Canadian data occurs between 14 and 18.5 hours
before publication.  The U.K. implemented rules in 2008 aimed at tightening
early access. They stipulate job titles of people who receive
data early must be made public. In contrast, a Canadian Finance
Department document, obtained under the Access to Information
law, had the names and titles of all officials who receive data
redacted.  Nobody has alleged that any of the 69 has used the
information improperly. Still,  David Love , a trader of interest-
rate derivatives at Le Groupe Jitney Inc. brokerage in  Montreal ,
said he’s wary of taking market positions ahead of key releases.
“You have to play safe,” Love said.  “The data should be kept so tight,” Love said in a
telephone interview. “Do you know how much money you could make
by having the data one day before? It’s crazy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 