-- 
Canaccord Chief Operating Officer Mark Maybank Quits

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-18T20:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/canaccord-financial-chief-operating-officer-mark-maybank-resigns.html
Canaccord Financial Inc. (CF)  Chief
Operating Officer Mark Maybank said he resigned from  Canada ’s
largest independent brokerage as the firm pares expenses amid a
slump in capital markets.  “They’re looking for ways to reduce costs in the
downturn,” Maybank, 41, said in a phone interview today. “We
effectively just agreed quite amicably to part ways.”  Maybank, who joined Canaccord in 2001, was president of the
company’s Canadian operations, overseeing the  wealth management 
and institutional businesses, according to the Toronto-based
firm’s  website . Canaccord announced the resignation today in a
statement. Company spokesman Scott Davidson declined further
comment.  Maybank, a father of three, said he decided in late summer
to quit in part for personal reasons as he anticipated
challenging times for the industry amid an economic downturn.  “I have a fairly bearish outlook on services in general
over the next couple years,” said Maybank, whose pay was based
on the firm’s profit. “Working in a high-stress, reasonably
thankless position for free is not a productive use of time.”  Canadian equity financings this year are on pace for the
slowest year since 2008, according to Bloomberg data, with $29.3
billion raised since January. Announced takeovers involving
Canadian firms have also slowed from last year, with $145.8
billion in transactions compared with $198.6 billion for all of
2010, according to Bloomberg data.  U.K. Expansion  Maybank’s tenure included guiding the firm, which was
formerly based in  Vancouver , through Canada’s asset-backed
commercial paper crisis between 2007 and 2009. Canaccord has
grown in the past decade, with expansion into the U.S., U.K. and
 Asia  and through its 2010 takeover of Genuity Capital Markets.  “We’ve had multifold growth and expansion from being one
of the smallest players in the country to rivaling the banks in
most of our product lines,” he said. “It’s been a great team,
a great set of accomplishments.”  Maybank said he plans to pursue other positions in
financial services after a three-month break, and has held
“early-stage discussions” with some companies already.  Maybank is among the top individual holders of Canaccord
stock, with 870,406 shares as of Aug. 10, according to Bloomberg
data based on regulatory filings. That values his holdings at
C$7.53 million ($7.38 million), based on today’s share price.  Canaccord rose 18 cents to C$8.82 by the 4 p.m. close of
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock has plunged 38
percent this year, more than three times the drop in the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  