-- 
Canada to Reject World’s Only Price-Level Target, Survey Says

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-10-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/canada-to-reject-world-s-only-price-level-target-survey-says.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
and Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  will probably keep the central
bank’s mandate of targeting inflation at 2 percent, rejecting
alternatives, including the world’s first price-level objective,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Seven of 11 economists polled from Sept. 22 to Sept. 29
said the bank’s goal will not change when it comes up for
renewal by the end of the year. Since 2006, the last time the
matter was considered, the central bank  said  it would study
pegging the level of the consumer-price index instead, as well
as reducing the inflation target and using policy to counter
asset-price bubbles.  Canada led the Group of Seven by adopting an inflation rate
target in 1991, a policy now used by about two dozen central
banks, including the  Bank of England  and the  European Central
Bank . The renewal comes as many central banks focus on weak
economic growth over price gains.  “At times like this, you don’t want to introduce new
uncertainty,” said  Craig Wright , chief economist at Royal Bank
of Canada, the country’s biggest bank by assets. “It’s not
broke, so why fix it?”  Canada’s central bank currently aims to keep inflation at 2
percent, the midpoint of a 1 percent to 3 percent target range.
To judge future price trends, the central bank looks at a core
inflation rate that excludes eight volatile items such as fruit
and gasoline.  Inflation has averaged 2 percent since the bank adopted
targets in February 1991, compared with an average of 6.9
percent during the previous 15 years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Influence Growth  The  Bank of Canada  can influence economic growth and
inflation by changing its target rate for overnight loans
between commercial banks. The  interest rate  influences the prime
rate that commercial banks charge their best customers.  Harper said in a Sept. 21 interview in New York he was
reviewing the file and didn’t expect major changes. Deputy bank
governor  John Murray  said in an August 2010 speech the benefits
of a price-level targeting system could be lost “if the
learning curve is too long,” and that the success of the
current policy “represents a relatively high bar against which
any future changes must be judged.”  Economic theory suggests targeting the level of the
consumer-price index may allow people to more accurately predict
prices over longer periods. The theory has only been deployed in
 Sweden  during the 1930s to help stop deflation, according to a
1998 paper by Claes Berg and Lars Jonung of Sveriges Riksbank,
that country’s central bank.  ‘Play It Safe’  “There is that sense of credibility that has been built up
over many years” with the 2 percent target, said  Sebastien Lavoie , an economist at Laurentian Bank Securities in  Montreal .
“Nothing ensures a smooth transition between one target and
another. It’s better to play it safe.”  The bank’s research on a price-level target included
simulations done with Montreal university students led by Deputy
Governor Jean Boivin, who has co-written papers with U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  Boivin said in an Aug. 23 speech that monetary policy can’t
be “dogmatic” or “follow mechanistic and simplistic rules.”
Boivin also said global policy makers have focused more since
the 2008 credit crisis on whether to broaden their mandates to
help build a more stable financial system.  “I don’t think it would be that radical a change” said
 Rudy Narvas , a senior economist with Societe Generale SA in  New
York . The Bank of Canada has already expanded a semi-annual
 report  on financial system risks, he said.  ‘More Credibility’  “It’s giving them more credibility to say that they have
more power to do it if necessary,” Narvas said.  Four economists in the survey predict the renewed inflation
mandate will include language on promoting financial stability.
The bank’s mandate may be tweaked to let it return inflation to
target more slowly when there are risks to the financial system,
the Globe and Mail newspaper  said  yesterday, citing a review of
Carney’s public comments.  The successful use of a price-level target could promote
financial stability by convincing businesses and consumers the
central bank will act to avoid long periods of falling prices.  “There are potential benefits to price-level targeting,”
Carney told the House of Commons Finance Committee in October
2010. “It is a powerful mechanism, potentially, to avoid
deflation.”  Too Loose  Researchers at the Toronto-based research group C.D. Howe
Institute and Former Bank of  Canada  Governor John Crow have said
the current target is too loose. The cost of living doubles
every 35 years with 2 percent annual inflation, the central bank
 said  in 2006.  The benefit of a price-level target rests on distinctions
that may be too subtle for people to appreciate, said
Christopher Ragan, a former adviser to the central bank and
finance department and a McGill University economics professor.  “Most of the economic benefits of price-level targeting
rely on the public thoroughly understanding how it differs from
inflation targeting,” Ragan said. “It’s legitimate to be
skeptical about whether the public will really understand the
implications.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 