-- 
Canada Government Introduces Bill to End Wheat Board Marketing Monopoly

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-10-18T21:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/canada-government-introduces-bill-to-end-wheat-board-marketing-monopoly.html
The Canadian government has given
the country’s Wheat Board four years to come up with a plan to
become a private company or cooperative under legislation that
would end the board’s monopoly on marketing wheat and barley.  Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz introduced the bill in
 Canada ’s House of Commons today and said the government wants it
passed by the end of the year.  Since 1942, western Canadian farmers have been required to
sell all their grain for human consumption to the board, under a
system the government created to stabilize prices. The bill
would remove that requirement by no later than Aug. 1, 2012,
enabling producers to sell next year’s crops on the open market.  “Marketing freedom will spur our economy, attract
investment, encourage innovation and create jobs,” Ritz said at
an event in Ottawa.  The Wheat Board will cease to be an organization
representing the interests of farmers once the bill is passed,
said chairman Allen Oberg.  “This is not about putting farmers in the driver’s seat,”
Oberg said on a conference call with reporters today. “It’s
about removing us altogether and handing the steering wheel to
the huge foreign corporations that control the world’s grain
trade.”  The bill removes the Wheat Board’s current board of
directors and says the agency will be overseen by five people
appointed by the government. There are currently 15 directors, a
majority of whom are elected by farmers.  Forward Contracts  Once the bill is passed, farmers can enter into forward
contracts to sell their grain to any buyer, provided the
contract comes due after the monopoly ends on Aug 1, according
to an official at Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada who briefed
reporters on condition of anonymity because he’s not authorized
to speak publicly on the legislation.  The law requires the Wheat Board to submit a plan to the
government within four years to turn itself into a corporation,
co-operative or not-for-profit organization. If they fail to do
so, the government can wind down the board in five years.  The government will continue to guarantee the board’s debt
and assist it with transition costs, the official said.  Grain-handling companies such as Regina, Saskatchewan-based
 Viterra Inc. (VT)  should boost their share of the wheat and barley
markets once the monopoly is eliminated, said Jason Zandberg, an
analyst at PI Financial in  Vancouver .  Forced From Market  “All the large handlers will do well, and the smaller
regional players will be forced out of the market,” Zandberg
said by phone. “That’s been happening for years anyway. This
probably just speeds up the process.”  Viterra and other handlers likely won’t be interested in
acquiring the Wheat Board, since most of the agency’s value
comes from its legal authority to control wheat and barley
marketing, he said.  The government is being “reckless and irresponsible” for
dismantling the wheat board at a time of economic uncertainty,
said New Democrat lawmaker Pat Martin, who represents a district
in Winnipeg, where the Wheat Board is based.  “This is something western farmers have been needing and
demanding for decades, and that day is finally here,” Prime
Minister Stephen Harper said.  Harper’s Conservatives hold a majority of seats in both the
House of Commons and Senate, and do not need opposition support
to pass legislation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 