-- 
Candidates Channeling Reagan Don’t Talk About His Tax Increases

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-10-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/candidates-channeling-reagan-don-t-talk-about-his-tax-increases.html
Republicans seeking their party’s
2012 presidential nomination are invoking  Ronald Reagan  when
conveying their message of small government and low taxes.  Reagan championed tax cuts. He also agreed to raise taxes
11 times during his presidency from January 1981 to January
1989, tax historians say.  While it’s impossible to know how Reagan would have adapted
to today’s strict no-new-tax Republican stance, the Reagan of
the 1980s “would be run out of the party. He’d be to the left
of the left-most candidate in the primary,” tax historian
Joseph Thorndike told Bloomberg Government.  Reagan pushed Congress to pass a $275 billion individual
and business tax cut in 1981 and took back about half of it
during his two terms in the White House with subsequent tax
increases, said Bruce Bartlett, a columnist for Tax Notes who
was a senior policy analyst in the  Reagan administration .  “Except for the ‘81 tax cut, he raised taxes nearly every
year he was in office, 11 times in all,” Bartlett said in a
telephone interview.  That contrasts somewhat with the Reagan who had “a vision
of limited government” Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
 Minnesota , a Republican presidential candidate, referred to in a
Sept. 23 address to the Conservative Political Action Conference
in  Orlando ,  Florida .  Evoking Reagan  Other Republican candidates have referred to Reagan’s quest
for limited government. In June Jon Huntsman Jr., the former
Utah governor and ambassador to  China  in the Obama
administration, kicked off his run for the Republican
presidential nomination in the same New Jersey park where Reagan
announced his 1980 campaign. Huntsman said Reagan “assured us
we could ‘make America great again,’ and through his leadership,
he did.”  When it came to taxes, Reagan raised them almost as much as
he cut them during his tenure in the White House.  Receipts under the  tax rate  structure before Reagan’s 1981
tax cut would have yielded $1.17 trillion if left in place until
Jan. 1, 1990. That compares with $1.05 trillion raised by the
tax system during that decade, according to the data, published
in the “The Tax Decade,” a study of  tax policy  during the
1980s by Eugene Steuerle, a senior  Treasury Department  official
during the Reagan administration.  Steuerle said Reagan was intent on lowering individual tax
rates and “he paid for a lot of that by allowing tax breaks to
be cut or pared back.”  ‘Base Broadening’  “We did more base broadening under Ronald Reagan than we
did under any other president in the history of the  tax code ,”
Steuerle, now a fellow at the non-partisan, Washington-based
 Urban Institute , said in a phone interview.  Reagan’s 1981 tax cut reduced the top individual tax rate
from 70 percent to 50 percent.  Reagan took back more than one-quarter of the 1981 tax cut
by signing off on tax-code changes in 1982 and 1984 that raised
revenue largely by eliminating tax breaks, according to data
compiled by Bartlett. The 1982 measure, which increased taxes by
$57.3 billion, was probably the largest peacetime tax increase
in U.S. history, he said.  Reagan’s willingness to raise taxes stemmed from his
administration’s concern about the federal  budget deficit , said
Thorndike, a visiting scholar in history at the  University of
Virginia  and a columnist for Tax Notes, a trade publication from
the non-partisan Tax Analysts.  ‘Saw the Necessity’  “His heart was clearly with the lower rates, but he and his
administration saw the necessity of raising enough revenue to
not run huge deficits,” Thorndike said.  Reagan in 1983 enacted an increase in the  payroll tax  that
funds Social Security, and he endorsed requiring higher-income
recipients to pay taxes on their benefits.  He presided over the landmark  Tax Reform Act of 1986 , which
further knocked down top individual tax rates, to 28 percent.
That reduction was achieved largely by curbing and eliminating
business tax breaks and by raising the rate for  capital gains .  There were limits to Reagan’s appetite for lower rates,
something President  Barack Obama  noted in a fundraising speech
on Oct. 4. In making his call for tax increases for high
earners, Obama quoted Reagan criticizing tax breaks that “made
it possible for millionaires to pay nothing while a bus driver
was paying 10 percent of his salary, and that’s crazy.”  “Reagan, if anything, is more aroused by issues of tax
equity than he is by rate reduction,” historian W. Elliott
Brownlee, co-editor of The Reagan Presidency: Pragmatic
Conservatism and Its Legacies, said in a phone interview.  Reagan’s pursuit of tax fairness is overlooked by the
current crop of Republican presidential candidates, Brownlee
said. “I believe they’ve lost sight of it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  