-- 
Perry Targets Romney as Cain Tax-Plan Gets Debate Scrutiny

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-10-19T19:30:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/candidates-to-debate-in-epicenter-of-turmoil.html
Herman Cain  fought to stay in the
top tier of the Republican presidential field as  Rick Perry 
tried to recapture the role of Mitt Romney’s chief tormentor in
an anger-tinged debate that spotlighted the sharpening contours
of the primary race.  Cain, a former chief executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza
whose surging poll numbers have put the national spotlight on
him, saw his 9-9-9 tax plan attacked by the six other candidates
last night in economically battered Las Vegas.  “I like your chutzpah on this, Herman, but I have to tell
you, the analysis that I did -- person by person, return by
return -- is that middle-income people see higher taxes under
your plan,” said Romney, 64, a former Massachusetts governor
who is vying with Cain for the  front-runner position  in the
nomination contest.  Perry, the governor of  Texas , sought to recapture momentum
after several weak debate performances and a drop in the polls
by training his fire on Romney during much of the debate. At one
point Perry accused Romney of taking a hard rhetorical line on
illegal immigration while once having hired undocumented
workers.  ‘Height of Hypocrisy’  “You hired illegals in your home, and you knew about it
for a year,” Perry said to Romney. “And the idea that you
stand here before us and talk about that you’re strong on
immigration is on its face the height of hypocrisy.”  Romney rejected the charge, which surfaced during his
failed presidential run in 2008, saying a lawn-care company he
hired to work on his property had employed the illegal
immigrants, not him.  He scolded Perry, saying, “This has been a tough couple of
debates for Rick, and I understand that. And so you’re going to
get testy.”  As the two grappled to be heard over each other, Romney
reached over and put his hand on Perry’s shoulder and lectured
him on being presidential.  “You have a problem with allowing someone to finish
speaking,” Romney said. “And I suggest that, if you want to
become president of the United States, you got to let both
people speak.”  Obama Aide Reaction  Jim Messina , President Barack Obama’s re-election campaign
manager, highlighted on a conference call today another comment
Romney made during the exchange at the debate: “I’m running for
office, for Pete’s sake, I can’t have illegals.”  That statement, Messina told reporters, shows Romney cares
more about advancing his career than what is right and wrong.  “He will say and stand for anything to get elected,”
Messina said. “He objected because he thought it would hurt his
political career.”  During an appearance in Las Vegas today at the Western
Republican Leadership Conference, Perry said he would unveil a
jobs plan next week. He also used the occasion to take a verbal
jab at Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who came under
criticism during his confirmation hearings for having to pay
back taxes.  “It starts with scrapping the 3 million words of the
current code, starting over with something simple, a flat tax,”
Perry said. “I want to make the  tax code  so simple that even
 Timothy Geithner  can file his taxes on time.”  Film Reference  Perry also made a joke about the  Federal Reserve , as he
talked about a movie called the “ The Italian Job ,” where
thieves make off with gold.  “That’s enough about the Federal Reserve,” he said.  In a swipe at Romney, who has been criticized for changing
his views on issues including abortion rights, Perry said, “I
come by my conservatism very authentically, not by
convenience.”  That reprised the line he used in introducing himself at
last night’s debate, indicating his campaign will be focusing on
questioning Romney’s conservative credentials and credibility.  “I am not the candidate of the establishment,” Perry also
said. “I’m going to give the American people a huge, big old
helping of unbridled truth.”  Speaking after Perry at today’s conference, former U.S.
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  scolded his fellow
presidential candidates for their debate performances.  ‘Be Positive’  “I’d like to see us get away from the bickering,” he said
to applause. “I will say to my fellow candidates, I think that
they are better off to be positive, tell us what they will d,
and not worry all that much about being negative.”  Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National
Committee, told the conference he views the 2012 election as a
fight over America’s future.  “Our stimulus plan is to fire  Barack Obama  and put a
Republican in the White House,” he said.  Last night’s debate, moderated by CNN anchor Anderson Cooper and held at the  Venetian Resort Hotel Casino , was the
eighth such gathering for the Republicans since May 5.  Perry, 61, was watched closely to see if he could muster
something more than what he and others have called mediocre
debate performances that have helped lower his standing in the
Republican race over the past two months to third place from
front-runner.  As he has in previous debates, Romney managed to deflect
the attacks directed toward him, as he tried to present himself
as the most polished candidate and his party’s best bet to beat
Obama in the 2012 general election.  Cain’s Plan  Cain, 65, has gained national attention in part because of
his proposal to replace the federal tax system with 9 percent
business and individual taxes and a 9 percent sales tax.  Perry dismissed Cain’s 9-9-9 tax proposal to spur the
economy.  “I’ll bump plans with you, brother,” he said. Cain’s
plan, he added, is “not going to fly.”  U.S. Representative Ron Paul of Texas termed Cain’s plan
“regressive,” and said it would be “very, very dangerous”
for the country.  Cain said his rivals were wrongly attempting to conflate
his plan with existing state sales taxes, saying it was like
comparing apples and oranges.  Romney quipped: “And I am going to be getting a bushel
basket that has apples and oranges in it, because I’m going to
pay both taxes.”  Cain’s Response  Cain dismissed the criticism from his rivals, saying they
didn’t comprehend the facts behind his idea and were
mischaracterizing it.  “Once again, unfortunately, none of my distinguished
colleagues who have attacked me up here tonight understand the
plan,” Cain said. “I invite every family to do your own
calculations.”  Some of Cain’s rivals cited a study released yesterday that
said his plan would raise taxes on those with low and middle
incomes, while most wealthy taxpayers would pay less under it.  The 9-9-9 plan would translate into a  tax cut  for almost 71
percent of Americans with cash income between $200,000 and
$500,000, according to an analysis by the nonpartisan  Tax Policy
Center  in  Washington  that was built around the assumption that
the 2001 and 2003 federal tax cuts will be extended permanently.  About 95 percent of Americans with income between $30,000
and $40,000 would pay more in taxes under Cain’s plan, the
analysis said, while about 95 percent of Americans with income
exceeding $1 million would receive a tax cut.  Health-Care Dispute  Romney continued to face criticism over the Massachusetts
health-care law he signed as governor -- a measure that, like
the one Obama pushed into law last year, required that everyone
purchase medical insurance.  “You just don’t have credibility, Mitt, when it comes to
repealing Obamacare,” said former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of
 Pennsylvania . “Your plan was the basis for Obamacare. Your
consultants helped Obama craft Obamacare, and to say that you’re
going to repeal it, you just -- you have no track record on that
that we can trust you that you’re going to do that.”  Romney said he never advocated using his Massachusetts
measure as a model for a national overhaul.  “It was something crafted for a state, and I’ve said time
and again, Obamacare is bad news,” Romney said. “If I’m
president of the  United States , I will repeal it.”  Perry and Romney criticized each other’s records as they
tried to portray themselves as the most qualified to offer the
best alternative to Obama on creating jobs and improving the
economy.  ‘Bright Contrast’  “What we need is someone who will draw a bright contrast
between themselves and President Obama,” Perry said.  Romney, citing a report by the Washington-based Center for
Immigration Studies, said that half the jobs created during
Perry’s tenure as governor went to illegal immigrants.  Perry said Romney was “absolutely incorrect” in his
assertion, saying that the report he cited had been discredited.
The immigration studies group promotes itself as dedicated to
promoting a “low immigration, pro-immigrant” vision for
America.  Paul used the forum to spotlight his libertarian views,
arguing against government involvement in health care and energy
subsidies and for an end to U.S. military operations abroad.  “This debt bubble is the thing you better really worry
about because it’s imploding on us right now; it’s worldwide,”
Paul said. “To cut military spending is a wise thing to do.”  Also participating in the debate was U.S. Representative
 Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota .  Nevada ’s Unemployment  Nevada recorded the nation’s highest unemployment rate in
August, 13.4 percent, well above the national average of 9.1
percent. It also has the highest rate of foreclosure filings.  Immigration issues surfaced during the debate, in part
because Nevada’s population is 27 percent Hispanic, according to
 census data . It’s an issue the other Republican candidates have
tried to use against Perry because of his support in Texas for
college tuition breaks for illegal immigrants, something
unpopular with conservatives.  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. skipped this debate
to protest Nevada’s decision to move its caucuses to Jan. 14.
New Hampshire officials say that would crowd their primary,
which typically follows the Iowa caucuses as the nation’s second
nominating contest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in  Las Vegas , Nevada, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  