-- 
Carlyle Said to Be Close to Buy Northern Spanish Cable Company Telecable

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-10-18T12:21:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/carlyle-said-to-be-close-to-buy-spanish-cable-company-telecable.html
The  Carlyle Group , the Washington-
based private equity firm, is the frontrunner to buy about 85
percent of local Spanish cable company Telecable de Asturias
SAU, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  A deal may be reached as early as today, said the person,
who declined to be named because the talks are confidential.
Carlyle submitted a final offer and is expecting an answer today
or tomorrow, another person said. Spanish broadband provider
Grupo Corporativo Ono SA and  CVC Capital Partners  also submitted
bids, according to two people.  Telecable, which is based in Oviedo and has more than
160,000 customers in the northern Spanish region of Asturias, is
valued at about 400 million euros ($547 million), one of the
people said.  Cable companies are benefitting from soaring demand for
high-definition television programs and broadband Internet as
they’re pushing combined offers of TV, Internet and phone
services to increase revenue from each customer. U.S.
billionaire  John Malone ’s Liberty Global Inc. cable operator in
March agreed to buy  Germany ’s  Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH  for
about 3.2 billion euros.  Carlyle may buy about 77 percent of Telecable from Spanish
lender Liberbank and an 8 percent stake from regional newspaper
publisher Editorial Prensa Iberica, according to one of the
people. Liberbank would probably retain a 15 percent stake in
the cable company.  Carlyle, Telecable, CVC, Grupo Corporativo and Liberbank
all declined to comment.  Spanish newspaper Expansion reported today that Carlyle is
the favorite to buy Telecable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net 
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net; 