-- 
Carlyle Agrees to Buy 85% of Spanish Cable Company Telecable

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-10-18T21:09:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/carlyle-agrees-to-buy-85-of-spanish-cable-company-telecable.html
Carlyle Group  agreed to buy 85
percent of Spanish cable-television company Telecable de
Asturias SAU, adding to telecommunications holdings in Sweden,
France and the Netherlands.  The transaction, made through Carlyle Europe Partners III
fund, values the TV, Internet and phone provider at 400 million
euros ($547 million), the Washington-based firm said today in a
statement, without giving deal terms. Spanish lender Liberbank
will retain a minority stake in the company.  Telecable is based in Oviedo and has 156,000 customers in
the northern region of Asturias. Spanish broadband provider
Grupo Corporativo Ono SA and private-equity firm  CVC Capital
Partners  had submitted rival bids, according to two people
familiar with the sales process.  Cable companies are benefiting from soaring demand for
high-definition television programs and broadband Internet as
they’re pushing combined offers of TV, Internet and phone
services to increase revenue from each customer. U.S.
billionaire  John Malone ’s Liberty Global Inc. cable operator in
March agreed to buy  Germany ’s  Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH  for
about 3.2 billion euros.  Carlyle said its previous telecommunication investments
include Sweden’s Com Hem AB; France’s Numericable & Completel,
which also operates in Belgium and Luxembourg; Dutch cable
operator Casema; and information and media group Nielsen
Holdings NV. Telecable is Carlyle’s fourth Spanish buyout,
following investments in quality control company Applus+,
tourism group Orizonia and information-technology provider
Arsys.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net 
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net; 