-- 
Commonwealth Bank Beating Goldman Sachs in Default Swaps: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-19T00:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/cba-beating-goldman-sachs-in-default-swaps-australia-credit.html
Credit risk on Australian bank bonds
fell to a two-year low compared with global peers and is headed
for the biggest monthly drop on record as investors seek assets
unscathed by  Europe ’s debt crisis, while slowing growth cuts
U.S. financial companies’ profits.  The average cost of credit-default swaps to speculate on or
insure against losses on  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  bonds
tumbled 41 basis points this month to 180 yesterday, while
contracts on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  rose 15 to 345, CMA prices
show. The average cost of bond protection on Australia’s four
biggest banks was 184 basis points less than an index of
contracts on global lenders on Oct. 17, the biggest advantage
since at least 2009, the data show.  Australia’s banks are “well positioned” to withstand
further turmoil in markets, the  Reserve Bank  said yesterday.
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s office on Oct. 17 knocked down
what it called “dreams” that an Oct. 23 meeting of policy
makers will be the last word in taming Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis. Australian-dollar bonds sold by financial companies
returned 1.9 percent since June 30, beating U.S. counterparts,
which lost 1.8 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Australian lenders are “in pretty good shape,” said
Justin Davey, a  money manager  at BT Investment Management Ltd.,
which has about A$13 billion ($13.3 billion) of fixed-income
assets under management. “While the attention is focused on
European and U.S. banks, I think the Australian banks on a
comparative basis look pretty good.”  Debt-Ceiling Fight  Goldman Sachs and its Wall Street peers have seen their
shares tumble and bond risk soar this year amid concern revenue
from trading and  investment banking  would drop because of
Europe’s sovereign crisis and the U.S. debt-ceiling fight. Banks
in the  S&P 500 Index  tumbled 6.3 percent on Oct. 17 as Citigroup
Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co . said revenue dropped amid economic
weakness and market turmoil linked to Europe.  Goldman Sachs yesterday reported a third-quarter loss of
$393 million, the second time it failed to post a profit since
becoming a public company in 1999. An index of credit-default
swaps on six U.S. banks including Goldman has jumped 137 basis
points in 2011 to 271, CMA data show.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia,  National Australia Bank
Ltd. (NAB) ,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  rank among the top 25 most-creditworthy lenders in
an index of default swaps on more than 140 global financial
firms, CMA and Bloomberg data show.  The gauge has fallen 20 basis points to 362 this month as
of yesterday. The cost of insuring the debt of European lenders
fell 15 to 457 in the same period, a separate index shows.  Government Bailouts  Australia’s top four banks avoided government bailouts when
funding froze worldwide in 2008 and posted an average 17 percent
jump in profits in their most-recent half-year reports,
according to the RBA.  They are reducing their reliance on offshore bond markets
as Australian consumers save the most ever, lured by the
developed world’s highest benchmark interest rate. Term deposits
at banks surged to a record A$480.2 billion in August, the most
relative to offshore bank debt in data from the RBA going back
to 1984.  Australian lenders’ outstanding borrowings from overseas
dropped to A$304 billion in August from A$314.6 billion in July,
the biggest fall in nine months and the lowest total since
November 2008, the data show.  Deposit growth continues to outpace lending, the central
bank said in minutes released yesterday of its Oct. 4 meeting,
when it left borrowing costs unchanged for an 11th month.  The RBA saw scope to reduce the 4.75 percent rate if needed
as a slower domestic economy eased concerns that inflation may
accelerate, the minutes showed.  ‘Growth Risks’  “We expect the RBA to be on hold until the end of this
year, with  core inflation  gradually rising, but not at a pace
sufficient to spook officials given persistent global growth
risks,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist Ben Jarman said in a
note to clients yesterday.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer prices
will rise an average of 2.5 percent for the next five years, up
from 2011’s low of 2.37 percent on Oct. 4. Last week’s 10 basis-
point advance was the biggest since the five days to May 6.  Australia ’s 10-year government bond yield was little
changed today at 4.47 percent, or 231 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries. The so-called Aussie dollar, the
world’s fifth-most traded currency, bought $1.0239 at 11:17 a.m.
in Sydney today.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped 5 basis points to
186 as of 11:21 a.m., according to Westpac.  Greece  Investments  Australian banks have no investments in Greece, compared
with $56.7 billion owed to French banks, according to data from
the  Bank for International Settlements  as of the end of 2010.  European leaders are working on multiple fronts to manage
Greece’s finances, protect banks and overhaul the currency
bloc’s economic governance.  The package of measures should include requiring banks to
hold more capital so they can withstand potential losses from
bond holdings, according to the  International Monetary Fund ,
which has put the cost as high as $200 billion. Euro-area banks
need at least 150 billion euros ($206 billion) of capital under
a plan similar to the U.S. government’s U.S. Troubled Asset
Relief Program, according to analysts at JPMorgan led by Kian Abouhossein.  Global Review  UBS AG, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc had long-term issuer default grades cut on Oct. 13 by
 Fitch Ratings . Fitch also placed viability ratings, and in some
cases credit grades, on negative watch for seven global banks
including Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.  The extra yield investors demand to hold UBS’s $1.5 billion
of 3.875 percent bonds due in January 2015 compared with
government debt has increased 87 basis points this quarter to
401, according to RBS prices.  The spread on Commonwealth Bank’s $1.75 billion of 3.5
percent notes due in March 2015 widened 12 basis points to 226
in the same period, the prices show.  The four biggest Australian lenders reported aggregate
profits of A$12.4 billion in their latest half-yearly results,
the central bank said in its financial stability review on Sept.
23. That’s about A$1.6 billion higher than a year earlier,
mainly due to declines in bad and doubtful debt charges, the RBA
said.  Australian banks “are fundamentally sound in their credit
dynamics and they’ve improved their funding,” said Michael Korber, who manages A$6 billion in cash and fixed-income assets
as head of credit at Perpetual Ltd. in Sydney. “Financial
institutions overall are under stress and Australian bank
spreads have widened in concert with that, but they’re better
positioned to withstand those stresses and come out the other
side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 