-- 
CFTC Approves Rule Expanding Access to Swaps Clearinghouses

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-10-18T20:06:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/cftc-may-complete-rule-broadening-access-to-swaps-clearinghouses.html
Swaps clearinghouses will be
required to open access to companies with at least $50 million
in capital under Dodd-Frank Act rules completed by the U.S.
 Commodity Futures Trading Commission .  CFTC commissioners voted 3-2 today to implement governance
of member-funded clearinghouses that will guarantee trades
between buyers and sellers in the $601 trillion swaps market.
Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted last year,
included the rulemaking in the agency’s mandate after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  “This is one of the most significant rulemakings to lower
risk in the financial system,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said
at the meeting in Washington.  The rules will govern clearinghouses that develop plans to
cover a default by their largest member. The CFTC and other
regulators may adopt separate rules for clearinghouses deemed
systemically important, which would have to create plans to
cover the possible default of the two largest members.  Clearinghouses would still be able to scale a member’s
participation depending on how much capital a company holds
above $50 million, according to a CFTC briefing yesterday.  Hedge-funds, banks and firms including  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MF)  and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  have supported lowering the
capital requirements to allow more participants.  “We have argued vehemently that you can’t set the bar
irrationally high because the purpose then is to exclude,” Gary DeWaal, general counsel at futures broker Newedge USA LLC, said
in an Oct. 11 interview.  Defaults  Wall Street’s largest dealer banks have said members need
experience and adequate resources to manage defaults.  “When you have members of a clearinghouse come together,
they have to share in the risk of the default,”  Terrence Duffy ,
executive chairman of  CME Group Inc. (CME) , said Oct. 12 at a  Futures
Industry Association  conference in  Chicago . “And when you have
10 members that have $50 million and you have the rest of the
members that have several billion, we know where the default is
going to land: it’s going to land in the big players. I can
understand why some of the larger participants are a little bit
nervous.”  The CFTC would also review a clearinghouse if it adopts
membership policies based on requirements other than net capital
that may limit participation, according to the briefing.  ICE Clear Credit  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) ’s ICE Clear Credit, the
world’s largest credit default swap clearinghouse, in July
reduced to $100 million from $5 billion the amount of adjusted
net capital needed by a broker-dealer or futures commission
merchant that wants to be a member. It also required 5 percent
of customer funds to be on hand as excess net capital, a
standard that most smaller brokers don’t meet, according to CFTC
data.  Newedge, the largest futures commission merchant that isn’t
part of a bank, and MF Global don’t meet the clearing member
standards based on customer segregated amounts, an analysis of
CFTC data shows.  “We will look very poorly upon that practice,” Ananda Radhakrishnan, director of the CFTC’s division of clearing and
risk, said at the meeting.  ICE adopted membership requirements before CFTC’s rule
“that are more open than those of any other clearinghouse,”
Lee Underwood, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Intercontinental
Exchange, said in an e-mail statement. “We’ll continue to work
with the CFTC to increase membership while ensuring that
clearing participants have sufficient capital to backstop the
risks they bring to the clearinghouse, given the unique features
of the CDS market,” Underwood said.  ‘Insufficient Discretion’  The rules give clearinghouses “insufficient discretion to
take legitimate actions to manage the risks that they
confront,” Commissioner  Scott O’Malia , one of the CFTC’s two
Republican members, said at the meeting. “Such an approach may
result in substantial costs to the futures and swaps market,
which are not detailed or explored.”  The lack of a full description of the costs may open the
rule to a legal challenge, O’Malia said. “These rules are
needlessly prescriptive and go beyond what is required by the
statute,” said Commissioner Jill E. Sommers, the panel’s other
Republican. Both she and O’Malia voted against the rule.  LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., the world’s largest clearinghouse
for  interest-rate  swaps, previously opposed the lowered capital
requirement that was part of a December proposal.  “We are at peace with that now,” Susan Milligan, head of
U.S. public affairs at the London-based company, said in an Oct.
11 interview. “It will change our business, but we’re confident
we can do it with strong risk-management principles.”  Five Days  The CFTC rule would require clearinghouses to have plans to
liquidate positions in  futures markets  and for swaps on
agricultural, energy and metals products within one day,
according to yesterday’s briefing. Swaps on financial products
would have to be liquidated within five days, the CFTC said.  Investors will have to post five days’ worth of collateral
at a minimum to ensure there is enough to unwind any defaulted
swaps contracts, compared with one days’ worth of margin to
cover futures trades.  The capital requirement would take effect six months after
the final rule is published in the Federal Register.  Letters of credit, which typically come from a bank as a
promise to provide collateral if needed for an investor, won’t
be allowed as initial margin for cleared swaps under the CFTC
rule. Such letters could be used as initial margin for
clearinghouses that handle futures contracts.  “Letters of credit have proven to be an especially useful
and flexible form of collateral for clearing members to post as
collateral for late-day margin calls,” CME Group, which
operates clearinghouses for energy, interest rate, credit and
other derivatives, said in a March 21 comment letter. “We urge
the CFTC to strike the prohibition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  