-- 
Top U.S. Regulator Approves New Limit on Commodity Speculation in 3-2 Vote

-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-10-18T22:10:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/cftc-votes-3-2-to-approve-new-limits-on-commodity-speculation.html
The top U.S. derivatives regulators
voted 3 to 2 today to curb trading in oil, wheat, gold and other
commodities after a boom in raw-materials speculation, record-
high prices and years of debate and delay.  The rule has been among the most controversial provisions
of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, enacted last year, which
gave the Commodity Futures Trading Commission the authority to
limit trading in over-the-counter commodity swaps as well as
exchange-traded futures. The rule will limit the number of
contracts a single firm can hold.  “Our duty is to protect both market participants and the
American public from fraud, manipulation and other abuses,”
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said at the commission’s meeting in
Washington in support of the rule. “Position limits have served
since the Commodity Exchange Act passed in 1936 as a tool to
curb or prevent excessive speculation that may burden interstate
commerce.”  The rule limits traders to 25 percent of deliverable supply
in the month nearest to delivery. The spot-month limits apply
separately to physically settled and cash-settled contracts.
Deliverable supply will be determined by the CFTC in conjunction
with the exchanges.  Gas Contracts  Cash-settled natural gas contracts will be subject to a
different regime. Traders will be permitted to hold contracts
equal to five times deliverable supply in Henry Hub swaps,
derivatives that settle in cash instead of the delivery of the
underlying commodity.  Henry Hub  is a natural gas delivery point
in Erath,  Louisiana , and the benchmark for U.S. futures.  Outside the spot month, the caps limit traders to 10
percent of the first 25,000 contracts of open interest and 2.5
percent thereafter.  “You want speculation or you don’t have any markets,”
said Commissioner Bart Chilton in an interview today on
Bloomberg TV. “There’s nothing wrong with speculators. It’s
when it begins to get excessive. We’ve seen where you can have
30, 35, 40 percent plus in some markets with just one trader
holding onto that concentration. That can impact markets.”  The commission estimates that the limits will affect 85
energy traders, 12 metals traders and 84 traders of certain
agricultural contracts. The caps will go into effect 60 days
after the agency defines the term “swap.” The agency declined
to estimate when that will be. Limits outside the spot month are
likely to go into effect in late 2012.  Affected Contracts  The limits will apply to 28 physical commodity futures and
their financially equivalent swaps including contracts for corn,
wheat, soybeans, oats, cotton, oil, heating oil, gasoline,
cocoa, milk, sugar, silver, palladium and platinum.  The rule calls for traders to aggregate their positions, a
change that may affect large firms with multiple strategies. It
also would tighten an exemption allowing so-called bona fide
hedgers to exceed the caps.  “Today is no doubt the single most significant vote I have
taken since becoming a commissioner,” said Commissioner Jill Sommers, who voted against the rule. “Not because imposing
position limits will fundamentally change the way the U.S.
markets operate, but because I believe this agency is setting
itself up for an enormous failure.”  The close vote split along party lines, with the three
Democrats, including Gensler, voting in favor and the two
Republicans against.  No Proof  Commissioner  Michael Dunn , a Democrat, said position limits
are a “sideshow,” and there’s no proof that there is excessive
speculation, or that prices will drop once limits are in place.
Dunn said he voted in favor of limits because Congress directed
the commission to impose caps.  “Things will remain relatively the same, except for those
who use the markets we regulate to provide the very resources we
all need,” Dunn said. “For these farmers, producers and
manufacturers, position limits, and the rules that go along with
them, may actually make it more difficult to hedge the risks
they take on in order to provide the public with milk, bread and
gas.”  The Dodd-Frank legislation gave the commission jurisdiction
over the estimated $300 trillion U.S. derivatives market and the
CFTC has proposed more than 50 rules. The agency missed
deadlines to impose position limits in energy and metals markets
by mid-January and agricultural markets by April.  Economic Impact  “I recognize there are passionate views on both sides,
especially with regard to position limits, but our role is to
make decisions on policy in a dispassionate manner that is
rooted in facts,” Commissioner  Scott O’Malia , a Republican,
said. Parts of the rules are arbitrary and vulnerable to legal
challenge and may have a substantial economic impact on market
participants, he said.  Senators  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat,  Maria Cantwell , a
Washington Democrat,  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat, and  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent, have criticized the agency for
the delay.  Levin, chairman of the  Permanent Subcommittee  on
Investigations, had scheduled a hearing on Oct. 6 to scrutinize
the CFTC’s compliance with the position limit requirement. He
delayed the hearing to Nov. 3 after the agency said it would
vote on the regulations as early as today.  Middle-Class Families  “The position limits rule approved today by the CFTC
represents significant progress for middle-class families facing
roller-coaster gasoline, electricity, and food prices,” Levin
said today. “Businesses that actually use commodities --
farmers, manufacturers, airlines -- will not be affected and
will continue to operate free of position limits.”  Levin’s committee has led inquiries into speculation in the
past five years as raw-material investing gained in popularity.
The first exchange-traded funds in 2003 allowed investors to bet
on raw materials without the hassle of storing physical
materials or managing a futures account.  The SPDR Gold Trust, best known by its ticker GLD, went on
the market in 2004 and has $66 billion in assets backed by
physical gold. Investment in agricultural exchange-traded
products reached a record in April, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Derivatives made the boom possible. Unlike futures
contracts, which trade on regulated exchanges and fall under
CFTC jurisdiction, swaps trade on the over-the-counter market
where the commission had no authority before Dodd-Frank,
allowing traders to amass large unregulated positions.  ‘Too Big’  “The fund participants have been able to grow too big and
trade the markets without regard to the underlying fundamental
supply and demand factors,” said  Roy Huckabay , an executive
vice president for the Linn Group, a research and brokerage firm
in  Chicago . “The market’s job of price discovery had been
forgotten or ignored.”  Off-exchange bets played a role in the September 2006
collapse of Amaranth Advisors LLC, a hedge fund that lost $6.6
billion on natural-gas bets. The Greenwich, Connecticut-based
fund had sidestepped limits and built a large position on
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  after being told to reduce its
futures position on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Amaranth’s implosion triggered Senate scrutiny. In June
2007, the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued
a report blaming Amaranth for distorting prices. Amaranth later
paid $7.5 million to settle CFTC allegations of manipulation.  Record Prices  Rising commodity prices kept Congress and consumers focused
on market regulation and the role of speculators. Wheat reached
a record of $13.495 a bushel in February 2008, and oil soared to
$147.27 a barrel five months later. Gold futures hit an all-time
high of $1,923.70 last month.  “This is not going to affect prices so I would call this a
non-event,”  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated
Brokerage Services LLC in Chicago, said in a telephone interview
today. “But ultimately it’s not good for the U.S. market as the
people they are trying to regulate can selectively decide which
market they want to trade in.”  The commission’s decision also was criticized today by a
leading Republican member of Congress.  “I am concerned the rule will unnecessarily restrict
hedging by our agricultural and energy producers, the very
hedging that helps them stabilize the costs of food, fuel and
power, and may very well exacerbate price volatility rather than
reduce it,” said Congressman Frank Lucas, an Oklahoma
representative who is chairman of the House Agriculture
Committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in  Washington  D.C. at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 