-- 
China Reduced Its Holdings of U.S. Treasuries by Most on Record in August

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-10-18T21:03:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/chinese-holdings-of-treasuries-fall-most-on-record-in-august-3-1-percent.html
China , the largest-foreign lender to
the U.S., reduced its holdings of Treasuries in August by the
most in at least a decade as the stripping of America’s AAA
credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s  sent yields to record lows.  The world’s second-largest economy cut its position in U.S.
government securities by $36.5 billion, or 3.1 percent, to $1.14
trillion, according to Treasury Department data released
yesterday in  Washington . At the same time, the data showed total
foreign ownership increased 2 percent to a record $4.57 trillion
as global investors sought a refuge from the financial market
turmoil that followed the downgrade.  Treasuries beat stocks and commodities in August as the
combination of the downgrade to AA+, slowing U.S. growth and
 Europe ’s debt crisis drove investors into the world’s biggest
and most-liquid debt market. The Treasury data also showed that
holdings of Treasuries increased in the U.K. and Caribbean,
where other nations often conduct purchases through.  The move in China’s figure “is not a question of people
disinvesting in the U.S. because there’s a negative macro
outlook,” said James Caron, head of U.S. interest-rate strategy
at Morgan Stanley in New York, one of 22 primary dealers that
trade Treasuries with the  Federal Reserve . “This is a lot more
technical in nature that has to do with dollar strengthening and
opportunistic selling, given how low yields went.”  Treasuries returned 2.8 percent in August, while the global
 bond market  gained 1.99 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
stocks fell 7 percent the same month, the biggest slump since
May 2010, and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of
commodities lost 1.8 percent. Since August, the U.S. Treasury
Master Index has gained 0.76 percent through Oct. 17.  ‘The Safe Haven’  Foreign holdings of  U.S. Treasuries  have risen 3.1 percent
this year through August, the smallest increase since 2006.
International ownership of  U.S. government debt  rose 20 percent
annually the prior two years, and at a compound rate of 17
percent since 2001, or as far back as the data is available.  “The safe haven quality of U.S. Treasuries was clearly not
threatened as we got downgraded in early August,”  Priya Misra ,
head of U.S. rates strategy in New York at primary dealer Bank
of America Corp. said in a telephone interview yesterday. “If
there were concerns AA+ was not safe enough, you don’t see it in
the flows.”  The rise in U.K. holdings likely reflects acquisitions of
Treasuries by investors making their purchases from that
country, Misra said. U.K. holdings climbed 12 percent to $397.2
billion in August.  Report Revisions  The Treasury’s initial reports on international purchases
are based on the location where the transaction occurs, while
revisions are based on location of the beneficial owner.  “China buying tends to happen through the U.K.,” Misra
said. At the end of 2010 China’s holdings were revised up by
more than $200 billion, while the U.K.’s were lowered by a
similar amount, she said.  The data show Chinese investors’ position in U.S. notes and
bonds fell to $1.12 trillion, the least since August 2010.
China’s U.S. bills position rose 39 percent to $14 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  