-- 
China’s Economy Expands at Slowest Pace in Two Years on Drag From Europe

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-18T12:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/china-economy-grows-at-slowest-pace-in-2-years.html
China ’s economy grew 9.1 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since
2009, driving stocks lower on concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis
is dragging on the global recovery.  The gain was less than the median estimate of 9.3 percent
in a Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists and followed a 9.5
percent increase in the previous three months. The statistics
bureau released the data in Beijing today.  Asia ’s benchmark stock index sank after China’s growth was
limited by tighter credit and weaker demand from Europe, where
 Germany  yesterday rejected speculation that any immediate
resolution of the region’s crisis is possible. A slowdown in the
pace of China’s expansion, which remains five times that of the
U.S., may help Premier Wen Jiabao to tame inflation that is
above the government’s target.  “The latest developments in the  euro zone  have unnerved
investors and many are fearful we’re going to see a repeat of
the slump we saw at the end of 2008,” said  Tim Condon ,
Singapore-based head of Asian research at  ING Groep NV (INGA)  and a
former World Bank economist. A “hard landing” for China would
require a bigger “shock” to growth than is likely, he said.  The Shanghai Composite Index closed 2.3 percent lower, the
biggest loss in almost a month. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell
as much as 2.7 percent. The yuan weakened 0.2 percent to 6.3813
per dollar.  Export Slowdown  Exports were the equivalent of 27 percent of gross domestic
product in 2010. Growth in shipments to the European Union
tumbled to 9.8 percent in September from 22 percent in the
previous month, data released last week showed.  Industrial production increased 13.8 percent in September
from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said. That compared
with the 13.4 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey and
a gain of 13.5 percent the previous month.  Investors’ concerns about China’s economy are focused on
bad-debt risks for banks, funding for small businesses, and the
ability of local governments to repay money borrowed for
infrastructure projects. China Business News reported today that
rail projects have been halted due to cash shortages and the
People’s Daily reported that some road building has stalled for
the same reason.  “The risk of a hard landing is a distant scenario,” said
Liu Li-Gang, an economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Hong Kong . HSBC Holdings Plc and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch echoed that view.  Barclays Capital  said the
nation’s full-year expansion should be about 9 percent, with
growth to slow to below 8.5 percent this quarter.  Monetary Policy  Any “outright easing of monetary policy will have to wait
until inflation expectations stabilize and external demand falls
sharply,” said Liu, adding that “partial easing” could
include reducing reserve requirements for small and medium-sized
banks.  Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households climbed
24.9 percent in the first nine months, compared with the 24.8
percent estimated by economists and a 25 percent gain through
August. Property investment for January-to-September rose 32
percent, from 33.2 percent through August.  Retail sales expanded 17.7 percent after a 17 percent
increase in August.  Companies including BASF SE, the world’s largest chemicals
company, are expanding in China as higher wages and consumption
boost demand. The German company and  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp (600028)  this month completed an expansion of an ethylene plant in
the eastern city of Nanjing.  ‘Balancing Act’  China’s economy grew 2.3 percent in the third quarter  from
the previous three months, seasonally adjusted, the statistics
bureau said today. That compared with a revised 2.4 percent gain
for the second quarter.  Asian policy makers face a “delicate balancing act” with
inflation remaining elevated while Europe’s crisis threatens
growth, the  International Monetary Fund  said last week. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s office yesterday curbed expectations
for a breakthrough at a summit in Brussels this weekend.  China’s Xinhua News Agency reported today that Chinese Vice
Premier Wang Qishan and U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
discussed the global economic and financial situation and
bilateral economic relations by phone. It didn’t elaborate.  Borrowing Costs  China has raised  interest rates  five times over the past
year, curbed lending and imposed limits on home purchases to
rein in property and consumer prices and limit the risk of asset
bubbles. Home prices gained in fewer than half of 70  cities
monitored by the government in September from August as sales
eased, statistics bureau data showed today.  While inflation was more than 6 percent for a fourth month
in September, Deutsche Bank AG forecasts the rate will drop to 4
percent -- the government’s full-year target -- in December.  China’s money supply expanded at the slowest pace in almost
a decade last month and new lending was the smallest since
December 2009, central bank data showed last week. A credit
crunch in some parts of China prompted the State Council to this
month unveil tax breaks and financial support for small
businesses.  A property slump and slowing export growth are among the
biggest risks, according to economists at UBS AG,  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  Societe Generale .  Beijing, Guangzhou  A drop in land prices in cities including Beijing and
Guangzhou and falling land sales presage a slowdown in property
investment, according to Nomura’s Hong Kong-based economist
Zhang Zhiwei. Vincent Lo, chairman of Shanghai-based  Shui On
Land Ltd. (272) , said last month one bank withdrew loan approvals for
his company and other developers.  UBS economist Wang Taosees a “global downturn or
recession” as the main danger facing the world’s largest
exporter in the next 12 months. GDP growth may drop to as low as
7.7 percent in the first quarter of 2012 as “a sharp
deceleration” in foreign demand adds to weaker domestic
production, according to Wang.  Overseas sales rose less than expected in September and the
customs bureau warned of “severe challenges” as the global
outlook dims.  That may weigh on China’s currency, which gained 18 percent
against the dollar in the past four years, the most among 25
emerging-market currencies. Premier Wen pledged to maintain a
“basically stable”  exchange rate  to protect exporters, the
Xinhua news agency reported Oct. 15, citing remarks he made in
the southern city of Guangzhou.  China’s economy  expanded 10.4 percent last year. Growth
will slow to 9.5 percent this year, six times the pace of the
U.S. and euro area, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates released last month.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  