-- 
China Home-Price Gains Ease as Sales Weaken on Government’s Credit Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-18T08:23:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/china-home-price-gains-ease-as-sales-weaken-on-government-s-credit-curbs.html
China’s  home prices  gained in fewer
than half of the 70 cities monitored by the government in
September for a second month as sales eased following harsher
policies to curb the risks of asset bubbles.  New home prices in the most affluent cities, including
Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Guangzhou, were among 30 that
were unchanged from August, the statistics bureau said in a
statement on its website today. A total of 16 cities posted
month-on-month declines in housing values and 24 recorded gains.  Chinese developers’ credit outlook will be “increasingly
severe” amid government efforts to curb rising home prices,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a report on Sept. 27. The government
increased down-payment requirements and  mortgage rates  on some
homes this year and issued home purchase restrictions in about
40 cities.  “The correction in China’s property market has already
started,” Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist at Societe
Generale SA said in a phone interview today. “The Chinese
government would like to see home prices fall further before
easing the measures.”  Home prices would need to fall between 5 percent and 10
percent before the government eases its curbs, she said.  Chongqing, one of the only two cities the government
imposed property taxes in this year, posted the steepest decline
as prices dropped 0.4 percent from August, while Changsha,
Kunming, Yinchuan and Luoyang had the largest gain of 0.3
percent, the bureau’s data showed.  Wenzhou  Prices rose in 69 of the 70 cities from the same time last
year, with the city of Wenzhou reporting the only decline,
according to the data.  China ’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  visited the
city in eastern Zhejiang province this month amid reports of
surging bankruptcies among private companies unable to repay
debt to so-called underground lenders.  In August, 16 cities posted a decline in home prices and 31
were unchanged from July, the first time fewer than half of the
locations recorded a gain, according to Samsung Securities Co.  “China’s property curbs have showed positive effect, but
we’ll still need to cement the result and closely monitor the
market,” said  Sheng Laiyun , a spokesman for the national
statistics bureau in a press conference in Beijing.  Mixed Sales Data  The country’s biggest property companies reported mixed
sales data last month. China Vanke Co., the country’s largest
listed developer, said September’s sales dropped 12 percent from
a year earlier, and China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. posted
an 18 percent decline. Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd., the
country’s second biggest by sales, said September sales surged
79 percent.  Existing home prices in Beijing fell 0.4 percent last month
from August, while those in  Shanghai  rose 0.1 percent, according
to the bureau.  China’s property sales rose 23 percent to 3.9 trillion yuan
($611 billion) in the first nine months, while development
investments gained 32 percent in the period to 4.4 trillion yuan,
according to government data today. New property construction
climbed 24 percent to 1.48 billion square meters (16 billion
square feet) between January and September.  “China’s property investment is holding up as it could be
due to social housing and delayed construction expenses,”
 Nicole Wong , a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets, said in an e-mailed reply.  Economic Growth  China’s economy  grew 9.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, the bureau said today. The expansion, the
slowest since 2009 following monetary tightening and weaker
export demand, was less than the median estimate of 9.3 percent
in a Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists.  Longfor Properties Co., the developer controlled by China’s
richest woman Wu Yajun, said it priced its Shanghai luxury villa
project “Affecting Yard” at a similar level as neighboring
developments. It usually sells its new homes at a price that’s
higher than existing neighboring properties, it said.  Luxury home developers are finding it harder to resist
price reductions as banks in 14 cities including Shanghai and
Guangzhou raise mortgage rates for first homes by as much as 50
percent, Shanghai Securities News reported today.  The government’s home price data may not fully reflect
market trends because there are “hidden price adjustments” to
housing values, including incentives such as the absorption of
interest by developers, Wong said.  A gauge tracking property shares on the Shanghai Composite
Index fell 2.9 percent at the close, the biggest drop in four
weeks. Longfor declined by a record 11 percent at the close in
 Hong Kong .  Private data also showed signs that China’s property market
is cooling. Home prices slid 0.03 percent last month from August,
the first decline in a year, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd.,
operator of the country’s biggest real estate website.  The southern Chinese city of Foshan suspended its decision
last week to ease limits on property purchases less than a day
after it said it would allow residents to buy a second home on
Oct. 11.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  