-- 
China’s Currency Distracts From U.S.’s Policy Failings: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-18T00:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/china-s-currency-serves-as-distraction-from-u-s-s-policy-failings-view.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  says that on “Day One” in office he would declare
China a currency manipulator. So it’s safe to assume that were
he president, he would sign the bill that passed the Democratic-
controlled Senate last week to impose sanctions on China if it
doesn’t free the yuan to appreciate against the dollar.  House Speaker  John Boehner  has said he will try to prevent
a vote on the currency measure. We hope he succeeds. It’s
unfortunate that the temptation to blame other countries for
America’s self-inflicted woes is gaining bipartisan support.  Let’s be clear: We don’t favor China’s policy of keeping
the yuan artificially weak, and thus making its exports cheaper.
But blaming the U.S.’s sluggish economy on  China ’s currency
policy is a diversion from more fundamental problems: the
inability of political leaders to revive the economy in the
short term (by helping homeowners with “underwater” mortgages,
by investing in infrastructure and by providing tax incentives
for employers to increase hiring), and in the long term with a
budget-balancing plan.  The Senate-passed bill is similar to others offered over
the past half-dozen years. Instead of identifying countries --
there’s really just one in mind -- that manipulate their
currencies, this version would require the U.S. Treasury
Department to spot exchange-rate “ misalignment .” A country that
fails to take corrective measures would face anti-dumping
tariffs and would be barred from selling to the U.S. government.  Manufacturing Truth  And what if a U.S. maker of, say, steel bars used to
reinforce concrete can make the case that the same product from
China is underpriced because of the yuan? Maybe sanctions will
make the American-made product more competitive. More likely,
the business will migrate to producers in  India , Malaysia or
 Indonesia , which will continue to underprice the U.S.
manufacturer.  The truth is, the U.S. may never again be the lowest-cost
maker of sneakers, clothing, kitchen utensils, the innards of
iPhones and thousands of other goods for which inexpensive labor
is key.  It’s also a stretch to conclude that a weak yuan is the
sole source of the yawning U.S. trade deficit with China. In the
past five years -- under pressure from the U.S. -- China has
allowed its currency to appreciate 20 percent against the
dollar. And the U.S.’s trade deficit with China? It hit a
monthly record of $29 billion in August.  What’s more, at least half the final price of products
labeled as “Made in China” goes to Americans, from retail
clerks, to shippers and handlers, advertisers, engineers and
designers,  according  to a study by the San Francisco Federal
Reserve.  WTO Complaint  As for China, it would probably protest the measure, should
it become law, by retaliating with trade sanctions of its own
and lodging a complaint with the  World Trade Organization . The
WTO may well side with China: Its rules bar cash payments or
price supports to subsidize exports,  according  to the
 Congressional Research Service , but an undervalued currency
probably doesn’t meet that threshold. The  International Monetary
Fund  can deem a currency “misaligned,” the same language used in
the U.S. legislation, yet has no authority to impose sanctions.  China’s reluctance to let the yuan strengthen stems from
the Faustian bargain the Communist Party has with its 1.3
billion-strong population: The party holds political power while
ensuring that people find work in factories making goods for
export. A suddenly stronger yuan would make those products less
competitive on international markets -- and may lead to civil
unrest if millions of Chinese suddenly found themselves
unemployed.  America’s Banker  Letting the value of its currency rise quickly has another
potential downside for China: The country is America’s biggest
creditor, holding $1.2 trillion of Treasuries. A stronger yuan
reduces the value of those holdings. To prop up the dollar,
China keeps buying Treasuries, making it easier for the U.S. to
finance its enormous $1.3 trillion federal  budget deficit .  We recognize that China is far from innocent. It should
move faster toward policies that increase domestic consumption
and rely less on exports for growth. It should continue to let
the yuan strengthen, which would reduce the cost of its imports,
help contain domestic inflation and put more money in the
pockets of Chinese consumers.  Yet a U.S. policy that hinders trade is self-defeating. If
America’s leaders ever get serious about correcting the U.S.’s
fiscal imbalances, they will be in a better position to impress
on countries, such as China, the merits of free trade.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 