-- 
China’s Stocks Retreat Most in a Month as Economic Growth Slows

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-18T07:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/china-s-stock-futures-drop-on-europe-crisis-economic-outlook.html
China ’s stocks fell, sending the
benchmark index to its biggest loss in almost a month, after the
economy grew at the slowest pace in two years and  Germany  damped
expectations for a fast resolution to  Europe ’s debt crisis.  PetroChina Co. and Jiangxi Copper Co., the nation’s largest
oil and copper producers, led declines by commodity producers
after gross domestic product expanded less than analysts’
estimates. China Vanke Co., the biggest developer, slid 2
percent after home prices gained in fewer than half of 70 cities
as sales eased. Sinohydro Group Ltd., the nation’s largest
builder of hydroelectric dams, jumped 17 percent in China’s
biggest initial public offering this year.  “The economic growth number wasn’t too bad but the
European crisis is still a hangover for the stock market,” said
Wei Wei, an analyst at West China Securities Co. in  Shanghai .
“A lack of cash also caps gains in stocks.”  The Shanghai Composite Index slumped 57 points, or 2.3
percent, to 2,383.49 at the close, the most since Sept. 22. The
 CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  declined 2.8 percent to 2,592.21. Stock markets
across  Asia  dropped today after German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel ’s office knocked down what it called “dreams” that the
Oct. 23 summit will be the last word in taming the crisis.  The Shanghai index has tumbled 15 percent this year,
driving down estimated price earnings to 10.98 times, compared
with the record low of 10.8 times set on Oct. 10, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. China has raised  interest rates 
three times in 2011 and ordered lenders to set aside a bigger
portion of their deposits to curb inflation that’s near a three-
year high.  GDP Growth  Gauges of energy and material stocks in the CSI 300 slid
more than 3 percent, the most among the 10 industry groups.
PetroChina fell 1.9 percent to 9.73 yuan. Jiangxi Copper lost
4.3 percent to 26.40 yuan. Anhui Conch Cement Co., the largest
producer of cement, dropped 5.4 percent to 18.34 yuan.  China’s GDP gain of 9.1 percent was less than the median
estimate of 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 22
economists and follows a 9.5 percent gain in the previous three
months. Industrial production increased 13.8 percent in
September from a year earlier. That compared with the 13.4
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey and a gain of 13.5
percent the previous month. August. Retail sales expanded 17.7
percent after a 17 percent increase in August.  “Regarding market impact, today’s data are mixed due to
below-consensus GDP growth and other above-consensus activity
indicators,” Ting Lu, economist at Bank of America Corp. unit
Merrill Lynch, said in a report to clients. “Overall, these
data paint a soft landing picture.”  Steelmakers Drop  Angang Steel Co. retreated 5 percent to 5.12 yuan. The
steelmaker started to halt a blast furnace because of weakening
demand, showing iron ore consumption may retreat further. Steel
prices in China have dropped to the lowest in 10 months amid the
slowing global economy.  The Shanghai Composite had its best weekly rally since
August last week on government support measures. The State
Council announced easier access to loans for cash-strapped
smaller companies, while a unit of the sovereign wealth fund
began buying shares of the nation’s four biggest lenders and the
Xinhua News Agency reported regulators approved cross-border
exchange-traded funds.  China’s efforts to prop up economic growth won’t help it
escape the hard landing that will probably arrive in 2013 or
2014, said  Nouriel Roubini , chairman and co-founder of Roubini
Global Economics LLC.  The prospect of a soft landing in China is a “mission
impossible,” Roubini said at a seminar in Helsinki. Over-
investment “always” leads a hard landing, he said.  Home Prices  New home prices in the most affluent cities, including
Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Guangzhou, were among 30 that
were unchanged from August, the statistics bureau said in a
statement on its website today. A total of 16 cities posted
declines in housing values and 24 recorded gains.  “The correction in China property market has already
started,” Yao Wei, economist at Societe Generale SA, said in a
phone interview. “The Chinese government would like to see home
prices fall further before easing the measures.”  China Vanke declined 2 percent to 7.19 yuan. Poly Real
Estate Group Co., the second-largest developer, slipped 4
percent to 8.93 yuan.  Sinohydro Jumps  Sinohydro jumped 17 percent to 5.27 yuan. The company
raised 13.5 billion yuan ($2.1 billion) by selling the shares at
the bottom of a price range of 4.50 yuan to 4.80 yuan,
surpassing the 9.5 billion yuan raised by Sinovel Wind Group Co.
in its IPO in January. The shares were temporarily suspended in
their debut today because of “abnormal” trading, the  Shanghai
Stock Exchange  said on its website.  “Sinohydro’s businesses are viewed favorably,”  Li Jun , a
strategist at Central China Securities Co., said by phone.
“Water conservancy is expected to rapidly develop in the next
decade.”  The listing comes as China’s stock market slumps and
liquidity tightens with small companies in cities such as
Wenzhou facing a cash crunch.  The credit crisis in Wenzhou is a “partial” issue and
does not pose “systemic risk,” Caixin Online reported
yesterday, citing unidentified people close to the People’s Bank
of China. Wenzhou’s request to borrow 60 billion yuan from
China’s central bank won’t likely be agreed to as credit policy
generally only targets certain industries and not regions, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Wan in New York at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  