-- 
Christie’s, Sotheby’s Accused of Cheating Artists on Royalties

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-10-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/christie-s-sotheby-s-sued-by-artists-over-unpaid-royalties.html
Christie’s Inc. and  Sotheby’s (BID)  were
accused in a lawsuit of failing to pay artists royalties for
works either sold in  California  or at auction by California
sellers.  The Sam Francis Foundation, the estate of Robert Graham,
and artists Chuck Close and Laddie John Dill said in complaints
filed yesterday in Los Angeles federal court that the
auctioneers violated California’s Resale Royalties Act by
failing to pay them 5 percent of the sales price for their
works.  Court-stamped copies of the complaints were provided by the
lawyer for the artists and weren’t immediately available from
the courthouse.  The two auction houses don’t disclose whether a seller
resides in California or whether a non-auction sale took place
in California, which would entitle the artist or the artist’s
estate to the royalty, according to the complaints. The
plaintiffs seek to represent other artists in class-action cases
and they seek unspecified damages.  “Although Christie’s has yet to be served with the
complaint, it views the California Resale Royalties Act as
subject to serious legal challenges,” Sara Fox, a spokeswoman
for Christie’s in  New York , said in an e-mailed statement.
“Christie’s looks forward to addressing these issues in
court.”  “We believe the claim is meritless and it will be
vigorously defended,” Diane Phillips, a spokeswoman for New
York-based Sotheby’s, said in an e-mailed statement.  In a separate complaint, the artists also accuse EBay Inc., 
the world's biggest online marketplace, of failing to pay the 
royalties they say they are due under the California law. 
Representatives of  San Jose , California-based EBay didn't 
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the 
lawsuit after regular business hours yesterday.  The cases are Estate of Robert Graham v. Sotheby’s, 11-
8604, and Sam Francis Foundation v. Christie’s, 11-08605, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 