-- 
Clinton’s Libya Visit Affirms Economic Ties

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-10-18T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/clinton-arrives-in-tripoli-to-support-libya-s-efforts-to-restore-security.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
sought to strengthen U.S. ties with Libya, promising assistance
to diversify the oil-dominated economy as well as offering
medical treatment in the  United States  for Libyans gravely
wounded in the conflict.  During a 5 1/2-hour visit to Tripoli yesterday, Clinton
warned against “revenge and score-settling” against supporters
of former dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  and urged the governing
National Transitional Council to include competing factions as
it moves Libya toward democracy.  Libyans “deserve an economy that delivers jobs, dignity
and opportunities to all, not just to the powerful and
connected,” Clinton said. While the country “is blessed with
wealth and resources,” it needs international expertise and
technical assistance, she said.  Clinton said the U.S. is helping to find and secure missing
weapons and will encourage development of industries beyond oil
and provide veterans of the conflict with medical care and
education.  At a town hall-style event, Clinton said the U.S. hopes
Qaddafi “can be captured or killed soon” so that Libyans
“don’t have to fear him any longer.”  Gunfire was heard as Clinton moved around the city.  “We recognize the bloody fighting continues,” she said.
“Qaddafi and those close to him are still at large. This is not
the end of  Libya ’s transition, it is the beginning.”  Clinton is the most senior U.S. official to visit Libya
since the revolt that dislodged Qaddafi after 42 years in power.
At the airport, former rebel fighters crowded around her,
flashing victory signs and posing for photos.  Qaddafi Holdouts  Clinton’s visit, unannounced prior to her arrival, came
four days after gun battles in the city between anti-Qaddafi
fighters and his loyalists. It was the worst violence in the
capital since the NTC took charge in late August.  An ongoing struggle for Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte, about
400 kilometers (250 miles) east of Tripoli, has delayed
preparations for a democratic transition and raised fears of
prolonged resistance and disunity.  NTC officials “shared with me their plans for establishing
an inclusive democracy,” Clinton told reporters after meetings
that included Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil, Prime Minister
Mahmoud Jibril and Finance and Oil Minister Ali Tarhouni. “We
agreed that the Libyan people deserve a nation governed by the
rule of law, not the whims of man,” she said.  Democracy Pledges  Libya’s interim ruling council has proposed holding
elections for a 200-member national congress eight months after
the end of hostilities. The congress would draft a constitution,
setting the stage for multiparty elections.  Clinton said it’s a priority to merge the various former
rebel forces into a unified military structure. The former
rebels needed to build a “just Libya that turns to
accountability and reconciliation, not revenge and score-
settling in places like Sirte and Bani Walid,” she said.  Clinton said the U.S. will give as much as $10 million in
additional aid to help locate and disable weapons and munitions.
The U.S. has warned that looted shoulder-fired, anti-aircraft
missiles may be sought by terrorist groups. The U.S. estimates
Qaddafi acquired some 20,000 of these weapons over the past 40
years.  A State Department weapons specialist and 14 contractors,
many with military experience, are on the ground assisting
Libyan teams. They have helped search 20 of 36 known weapons
depots and disabled hundreds of missiles, said State Department
officials, who were not authorized to speak publicly. The U.S.
plans to increase the number of advisers from 14 to 50, the
officials said.  Lockerbie Raised  U.S. officials said Clinton raised the issue of former
Qaddafi intelligence officer Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi, who was
convicted of the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie,
 Scotland , that killed 270 people in 1988. Scottish authorities
allowed Al-Megrahi to return to Libya in 2009 on compassionate
medical grounds.  Clinton said she also discussed the economy with leaders of
the ruling council, who have told their U.S. counterparts they
want to broaden Libya’s economic base and eliminate the cronyism
that characterized the oil industry under Qaddafi. The council
has pledged to honor Qaddafi-era oil contracts.  Libya’s economy was state-run under Qaddafi. Transitional
leaders say privatizing state monopolies may boost economic
diversity and growth, a U.S. official said.  Visiting the Wounded  At the Tripoli Medical Center, Clinton visited several
young men who had lost a limb or are at risk of losing one from
battlefield injuries sustained in recent days of fighting pro-
Qaddafi holdouts. One doctor implored Clinton to assist in the
cases of seriously wounded patients, including a medical student
who was injured in fighting three days ago and who needs
specialized treatment in an overseas hospital.  “Nobody is hearing us,” the doctor told Clinton, who
replied she would try to help. There are some 15,000 wounded,
including 1,500 amputees, according to United Nations estimates.  Clinton announced a public-private U.S. initiative to
provide parts and chemicals for Libyan medical equipment,
transportation to U.S. hospitals for the most seriously wounded,
and assistance in creating a computerized medical records system
to track patient care, State Department officials said.  To date, the U.S. has provided more than $135 million in
assistance to Libyan civilians and the rebel council, according
to State Department figures.  Archaeological Work  The U.S. will be providing a $180,000 grant for Oberlin
College in  Ohio  and archaeologists in Libya to document and
assess important archaeological sites in eastern Libya,
including the Greek ruins city of Cyrene founded in the 4th
century BC, a UN world heritage site.  Clinton also announced plans for English-language
instruction.  “Qaddafi prevented and discouraged, for about 25 years,
the study of English,” retired U.S. Ambassador Charles Cecil
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “So there’s a whole
generation that doesn’t know English.”  English-language training will help Libya modernize and
establish productive relationships with the U.S. and others,
said Cecil, who served as U.S. charge d’affaires in Tripoli from
2006 to 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  