-- 
Coca-Cola Profit Gains 8.1% as Pricing Rises

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-10-18T20:26:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/coca-cola-boosts-quarterly-profit-8-1-after-raising-north-american-prices.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, posted an 8.1 percent increase in third-
quarter profit after boosting global sales volumes and raising
retail pricing in  North America .  Net income advanced to $2.22 billion, or 95 cents a share,
from $2.06 billion, or 88 cents, a year earlier, Atlanta-based
Coca-Cola said today in a statement. Excluding some items,
profit was $1.03 a share, topping the $1.02 average of 13
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  has built new plants in
emerging markets and pushed more profitable package sizes
overseas, helping boost global case volume sales 5 percent in
the quarter. Coca-Cola also raised pricing 2 percent to
retailers in North America, its largest market.  “They are still growing in terms of volume, and that’s
what you want to see,” Chris Shanahan, a San Antonio-based
analyst at  Frost & Sullivan , said today in a telephone
interview. “They are able to maintain organic growth.”  Coca-Cola fell 0.4 percent to $66.74 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York . The shares have gained 1.5 percent this year, while rival
PepsiCo Inc. has decreased 4.5 percent.  Third-quarter revenue rose 45 percent to $12.2 billion,
helped by the Coca-Cola’s purchase of its largest bottler last
year. The average estimate of 10 analysts was $12 billion.  International Sales  Sales volumes gained 7 percent in  Latin America , 6 percent
in the company’s Eurasia and Africa region and 5 percent in
North American and its Pacific units. The gains were the result
of investments made throughout several years, Kent said today in
an interview.  “You have to take a long-term approach to investments and
a shorter term approach to execution,” said Kent, who last
month announced a plan to spend $3 billion in  Russia  in the next
five years to develop Coca-Cola’s brands.  Coca-Cola said today it plans to buy back as much as $3
billion of its shares this year, up from its previous target of
at least $2.5 billion. The company said today it has repurchased
$2.2 billion shares so far this year.  Chief Financial Officer Gary Fayard said today on a
conference call that the company’s commodity costs will jump
$800 million this year from 2010, more than the $700 million
Coca-Cola previously estimated. The increase is driven by higher
costs for corn syrup used as a sweetener and petroleum-based
plastic for bottles and packaging.  Coca-Cola said in July it would boost North American
pricing as much as 4 percent in the second half of the year to
offset higher commodity costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  