-- 
Cocoa Drops to Two-Year Low as Ample Supply May Cut Hershey Cost

-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 
2011-10-18T19:22:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/cocoa-drops-to-two-year-low-as-ample-supply-may-cut-hershey-cost.html
Cocoa fell to the lowest since July
2009 as rising output from West Africa and slowing economies in
the U.S. and  Europe  signaled supply may exceed demand for a
second year.  Cocoa exports from the port of San Pedro in Ivory Coast,
the world’s biggest producer, more than doubled to 26,094 metric
tons in September from a year earlier, the harbor reported last
week. Ghana, the second-largest grower, may produce more than 1
million tons in the 2011-2012 season, the government said Oct.
14. Prices tumbled 17 percent last quarter as escalating debt
woes threatened global expansion.  The decline in cocoa may lower costs for companies such as
 Hershey Co. (HSY) ,  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s Cadbury unit and Nestle SA. The
United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization’s world food
price index has dropped 5.3 percent since reaching a record in
February, after risings grocery costs helped trigger protests
from  Tunisia  to Yemen. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24
commodities tumbled 12 percent last quarter, the most since the
end of 2008.  “With the global economy the way it is right now, the
demand isn’t there” for cocoa, Thomas Mikulski, a senior
strategist at MF Global Ltd., said by telephone from Chicago.
“It’s hard to buy chocolate when you can’t afford Spam.”  Cocoa for December delivery fell 1.9 percent to settle at
$2,571 a ton at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York . Earlier,
the price touched $2,523, the lowest for a most-active contract
since July 9, 2009.  ‘Too Much Supply’  “The whole basis of the drop is the Ivory Coast and  Ghana 
crops, and that faltering demand in Europe and the U.S. will add
more to the surplus,”  Shawn Hackett , the president of Hackett
Financial Advisors Inc., said in a telephone interview from
Boynton Beach, Florida. “There’s too much supply.”  While the surplus will narrow from last season’s record
325,000 tons, producers will harvest more than the world
consumes in the 2011-2012 season, Jean-Marc Anga, the executive
director of the International Cocoa Organization, has said.  Hershey has rallied 27 percent this year as cocoa prices
declined, pushing the chocolate maker’s shares to the biggest
premium to profits since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Overall commodity prices are still going to be a
pressure, but companies will take all the help they can get” on
costs,  Jack Russo , an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in St.
Louis, said today in a phone interview. “Everybody in the
sector would be glad to see some normalization in prices,
because we’ve seen some pretty big spikes the past few years.”  Cocoa has plunged from a 32-year high of $3,775 on March 4
after Cargill Inc., Archer Daniels Midland Co. and Barry
Callebaut AG resumed exports from  Ivory Coast . Supplies were
interrupted starting in late November after a civil war erupted
following a disputed presidential election.  Laurent Gbagbo ,
whose refusal to step down started the conflict, was captured on
April 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in Washington at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  