-- 
Colombia Peso Bond Yields Rise for Second Day on CPI Concerns

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-10-18T18:48:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/colombia-peso-bond-yields-rise-for-second-day-on-cpi-concerns.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds fell, pushing
yields higher for a second day, amid speculation inflation will
quicken as heavier-than-average rain leads to an increase in
food prices.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark 10 percent bonds due in
July 2024 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.5
percent. The bond’s price fell 0.123 centavo to 120.098 centavos
per peso.  Colombia’s second rainy season began in mid-September and
will last through mid-December, the nation’s weather agency said
in a Sept. 26 statement. Rain in the first half of October was
equivalent to the historical average for the whole month,
according to an Oct. 15 statement on the presidential website
which quoted the weather agency. Floods last year and at the
beginning of this year damaged crops and choked off farmers’
supply routes, pushing food prices higher.  “What we’ve been seeing lately is an increase in rains
which may drive some food prices higher,” said Juan Camilo Santana, an analyst at Cia. de Profesionales de Bolsa SA
brokerage in Bogota. “The trend is clearly for inflation to
rise and people are pricing that into bonds.”  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due 2013 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge of
annual consumer price increase expectations known as the
breakeven rate, rose to 3.24 percentage points today from 2.77
percentage points a month ago. The central bank targets
inflation between 2 percent and 4 percent this year.  Housing, Food Costs  Colombia’s consumer prices rose 0.31 percent in September
from the previous month, driven by higher housing and food
costs, after declining 0.03 percent in August.  Economists covering the Colombian economy raised their
year-end inflation forecast to 3.42 percent this month from 3.23
percent in the September survey, according to the median
forecast in a central bank survey published Oct. 12.  Banco de la Republica will raise the benchmark lending rate
to 4.75 percent by year-end from 4.5 percent now to rein in
inflation expectations, according to Santana.  Colombia’s peso fell the most in two weeks as  China’s
economy  grew at the slowest pace in two years and concern  France 
may lose its top  credit rating  hurt appetite for higher yielding
emerging-market assets.  The peso declined 0.9 percent to 1,903 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 1,886.75 yesterday, its biggest one-day drop since Oct. 4.
Colombian markets were closed yesterday for Columbus Day.  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday France’s Aaa
credit rating is under pressure from deterioration in debt
metrics and the potential for additional liabilities from the
European debt crisis.  Data showed that  China ’s economy grew 9.1 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009
and less than the median estimate of 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey, boosting concern that the debt crisis is dragging
on the global recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  