-- 
Commodity Speculators May Face New Limits

-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-10-18T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/commodity-speculators-may-face-new-limits-after-cftc-vote-today.html
The top U.S. derivatives regulator
is slated to vote today whether to curb trading in oil, wheat,
gold and other commodities after a boom in raw-materials
speculation, record-high prices and years of debate and delay.  The rule has been among the most controversial provisions
of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, enacted last year, which
gave the Commodity Futures Trading Commission the authority to
limit trading in over-the-counter commodity swaps as well as
exchange-traded futures. The proposal would limit the number of
contracts a single firm can hold.  “This is a very important rule for the futures and
derivatives industry,” Paul Pantano, a Washington-based partner
at  New York  law firm Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft LLP, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  The legislation gave the commission jurisdiction over the
estimated $300 trillion U.S. derivatives market, and the CFTC
has proposed more than 50 rules. The agency missed deadlines to
impose position limits in energy and metals markets by mid-
January and agricultural markets by April. A revision of the
rule proposed in January is to be voted on today.  The rule calls for traders to aggregate their positions, a
change that may affect large firms with multiple strategies. It
also would tighten an exemption allowing so-called bona fide
hedgers to exceed the caps.  ’Clear Tension’  “There is a clear tension in staying true to the statute
without bringing unintended harm to the markets,” De’Ana Dow, a
senior vice president at Washington-based Ogilvy Government
Relations who was a lawyer for more than 20 years at CFTC, said
in a phone interview.  Senators  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat,  Maria Cantwell , a
Washington Democrat,  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat, and  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent, have criticized the agency,
chaired by  Gary Gensler , for the delay.  Levin, chairman of the  Permanent Subcommittee  on
Investigations, had scheduled a hearing on Oct. 6 to scrutinize
the CFTC’s compliance with the position limit requirement. He
delayed the hearing to Nov. 3 after the agency said it would
vote on the regulations as early as today.  Speculation Inquiries  Levin’s committee has led inquiries into speculation in the
past five years as raw-material investing gained in popularity.
The first exchange-traded funds in 2003 allowed investors to bet
on raw materials without the hassle of storing physical
materials or managing a futures account.  The SPDR Gold Trust, best known by its ticker GLD, went on
the market in 2004 and has $66 billion in assets backed by
physical gold. Investment in agricultural exchange-traded
products reached a record in April, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Derivatives made the boom possible. Unlike futures
contracts, which trade on regulated exchanges and fall under
CFTC jurisdiction, swaps traded on the over-the-counter market
where the commission had no authority, allowing traders to amass
large unregulated positions.  Off-exchange bets played a role in the September 2006
collapse of Amaranth Advisors LLC, a hedge fund that lost $6.6
billion on natural-gas bets. The Greenwich, Connecticut-based
fund had sidestepped limits and built a large position in
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  contracts after being told to
reduce its futures position on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Amaranth’s implosion triggered Senate scrutiny. In June
2007, the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued
a report blaming Amaranth for distorting prices. Amaranth later
paid $7.5 million to settle CFTC allegations of manipulation.  Record High Prices  Rising commodity prices kept Congress and consumers focused
on market regulation and the role of speculators. Wheat reached
a record of $13.495 a bushel in February 2008, and oil soared to
$147.27 a barrel five months later. Gold futures hit an all-time
high of $1,923.70 last month.  The CFTC is also poised to complete a rule designed to
broaden access to clearinghouses for  interest rate , credit and
other derivatives. The agency in December proposed requiring
clearinghouses to open membership to firms with $50 million in
net capital. Clearinghouses could scale a member’s participation
depending on the amount of capital a firm holds.  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) , Jefferies Group Inc.,  hedge funds 
and other smaller brokers and banks have supported lowering the
 capital requirements  from current standards to allow more
participants. Wall Street’s largest dealer banks have said
members need experience and adequate resources to manage
defaults.  The CFTC is also set to propose a delay for Dodd-Frank
rules that were scheduled for completion last July. The agency
already delayed some rules from taking effect in the market
until as late as the end of the year. Gensler said on Oct. 11
that the agency would vote on an additional delay into 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington D.C. at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 