-- 
Commonfund’s Hollywood Palladium Partner Wins $50 Million Jury Verdict

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-10-18T00:10:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/commonfund-s-hollywood-palladium-partner-wins-50-million-jury-verdict.html
Commonfund, the  money manager  for
endowments and foundations, was ordered by a Los Angeles jury to
pay $50.3 million to its partner in four developments, including
renovation of the Hollywood Palladium.  Commonfund’s real estate investment unit was in a joint
venture with Newport Capital Advisors, a closely held developer
in  Newport Beach ,  California , to build and redevelop office,
hotel and residential space with a projected construction budget
of $1 billion, including the Palladium, a Sunset Boulevard venue
for concerts, awards shows and television production for more
than 70 years.  The state court jury awarded $16.4 million in compensatory
damages on Oct. 13 and $34 million in punitive damages the
following day for breach of fiduciary duty, according to a copy
of the jury verdict form provided by lawyers for Newport
Capital. The verdict couldn’t be independently confirmed with
the court.  Commonfund is considering an appeal, said Keith Luke, the
company’s managing director.  “We assert that there is no basis for either the verdict
or the magnitude of the judgment,” Luke said today in an
e-mail.  Commonfund, which managed $26.4 billion as of June 30 for
nonprofit groups, stopped direct real estate investments last
year as it sought to restructure a $1 billion fund that lost
most of its value as capital markets tumbled after the 2008
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to a
letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  ‘Worked Tirelessly’  “We have worked tirelessly to protect the interests of all
of our investors since the real estate market crashed in 2008,”
Luke said in today’s e-mail. “Unlike many other firms, who have
chosen to write off their investments, we have followed a
careful process to maximize the value available for return to
investors. We will continue to aggressively defend investor
interests.”  The Palladium, which is owned by Wilton, Connecticut-based
Commonfund, was ordered into receivership in August, according
to court documents. It opened in 1940 with a concert by the
Tommy Dorsey Orchestra and  Frank Sinatra , became a television
studio in 1961 and was home to such shows as the Emmy Awards and
the Grammy Awards. After it was converted back to a concert
venue, the Palladium hosted shows by rock groups including the
 Rolling Stones , Led Zeppelin, the Who, the Police and the Red
Hot Chili Peppers.  Other Hollywood properties in the partnership are Highland
Center, site of a proposed a 24-story hotel and a 16-story
office building; Cherokee Las Palmas, site of a planned luxury
hotel and residential tower; and Argyle Property, across the
street from the Capitol Records building, according to court
documents.  The case is Newport Capital Advisors LLC v. Commonfund
Realty Inc., BC 412918, California Superior Court ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  