-- 
Commodity Speculators May Face Limits After CFTC Vote Today

-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-10-18T13:56:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/commodity-speculators-may-face-limits-after-cftc-vote-today-1-.html
The top U.S. derivatives regulator
is slated to vote today whether to curb trading in oil, wheat,
gold and other commodities after a boom in raw-materials
speculation, record-high prices and years of debate and delay.  The rule has been among the most controversial provisions
of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, enacted last year, which
gave the Commodity Futures Trading Commission the authority to
limit trading in over-the-counter commodity swaps as well as
exchange-traded futures. The proposal would limit the number of
contracts a single firm can hold.  “Our duty is to protect both market participants and the
American public from fraud, manipulation and other abuses,”
said Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  in a statement in support
of the rule. “Position limits have served since the Commodity
Exchange Act passed in 1936 as a tool to curb or prevent
excessive speculation that may burden interstate commerce.”  If approved, the rule will limit traders to 25 percent of
deliverable supply in the month nearest to delivery. The spot-
month limits will apply separately to physically settled and
cash-settled contracts. Deliverable supply will be determined by
the CFTC in conjunction with the exchanges.  Henry Hub  Cash-settled natural gas contracts will be subject to a
different regime. Traders will be permitted to hold contracts
equal to five times deliverable supply in Henry Hub swaps,
derivatives that settle in cash instead of the delivery of the
underlying commodity.  Henry Hub  is a natural gas delivery point
in Erath,  Louisiana , and the benchmark for U.S. futures.  Outside the spot month, the caps limit traders to 10
percent of the first 25,000 contracts of open interest and 2.5
percent thereafter.  “You want speculation or you don’t have any markets,”
said Commissioner Bart Chilton in an interview today on
Bloomberg TV. “There’s nothing wrong with speculators. It’s
when it begins to get excessive. We’ve seen where you can have
30, 35, 40 percent plus in some markets with just one trader
holding onto that concentration. That can impact markets.”  The commission estimates that the limits will affect 85
energy traders, 12 metals traders and 84 traders of certain
agricultural contracts. The caps will go into effect 60 days
after the agency defines the term “swap.” The agency declined
to estimate when that will be. Limits outside the spot month are
likely to go into effect in late 2012.  Aggregate Positions  The rule calls for traders to aggregate their positions, a
change that may affect large firms with multiple strategies. It
also would tighten an exemption allowing so-called bona fide
hedgers to exceed the caps.  “There is a clear tension in staying true to the statute
without bringing unintended harm to the markets,” De’Ana Dow, a
senior vice president at Washington-based Ogilvy Government
Relations who was a lawyer for more than 20 years at CFTC, said
in a phone interview.  The legislation gave the commission jurisdiction over the
estimated $300 trillion U.S. derivatives market, and the CFTC
has proposed more than 50 rules. The agency missed deadlines to
impose position limits in energy and metals markets by mid-
January and agricultural markets by April.  Senators  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat,  Maria Cantwell , a
Washington Democrat,  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat, and  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent, have criticized the agency,
chaired by Gary Gensler, for the delay.  CFTC Compliance  Levin, chairman of the  Permanent Subcommittee  on
Investigations, had scheduled a hearing on Oct. 6 to scrutinize
the CFTC’s compliance with the position limit requirement. He
delayed the hearing to Nov. 3 after the agency said it would
vote on the regulations as early as today.  Levin’s committee has led inquiries into speculation in the
past five years as raw-material investing gained in popularity.
The first exchange-traded funds in 2003 allowed investors to bet
on raw materials without the hassle of storing physical
materials or managing a futures account.  The SPDR Gold Trust, best known by its ticker GLD, went on
the market in 2004 and has $66 billion in assets backed by
physical gold. Investment in agricultural exchange-traded
products reached a record in April, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Derivatives Growth  Derivatives made the boom possible. Unlike futures
contracts, which trade on regulated exchanges and fall under
CFTC jurisdiction, swaps traded on the over-the-counter market
where the commission had no authority, allowing traders to amass
large unregulated positions.  Off-exchange bets played a role in the September 2006
collapse of Amaranth Advisors LLC, a hedge fund that lost $6.6
billion on natural-gas bets. The Greenwich, Connecticut-based
fund had sidestepped limits and built a large position in swaps
on  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  after being told to reduce its
futures position on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Amaranth’s implosion triggered Senate scrutiny. In June
2007, the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued
a report blaming Amaranth for distorting prices. Amaranth later
paid $7.5 million to settle CFTC allegations of manipulation.  Rising commodity prices kept Congress and consumers focused
on market regulation and the role of speculators. Wheat reached
a record of $13.495 a bushel in February 2008, and oil soared to
$147.27 a barrel five months later. Gold futures hit an all-time
high of $1,923.70 last month.  Derivative Clearinghouses  The CFTC is also poised to complete a rule designed to
broaden access to clearinghouses for  interest rate , credit and
other derivatives. The agency in December proposed requiring
clearinghouses to open membership to firms with $50 million in
net capital. Clearinghouses could scale a member’s participation
depending on the amount of capital a firm holds.  MF Global Holdings Ltd., Jefferies Group Inc.,  hedge funds 
and other smaller brokers and banks have supported lowering the
 capital requirements  to allow more participants. Wall Street’s
largest dealer banks have said members need experience and
adequate resources to manage defaults.  The CFTC is also set to propose a delay for Dodd-Frank
rules that were scheduled for completion last July. The agency
already delayed some rules from taking effect in the market
until as late as the end of the year. Gensler said on Oct. 11
that the agency would vote on an additional delay into 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington D.C. at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 