-- 
Confidence in Canada Economic Prospects at Two-Year Low, Nanos Poll Shows

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-10-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/confidence-in-canada-economy-at-two-year-low-nanos-poll-shows.html
Canadians’ optimism in the country’s
economic prospects fell to its lowest in two years as the
European debt crisis and concerns about the U.S. recovery dent
 consumer confidence , according to a poll by  Nanos Research .  The proportion of Canadians who predict a stronger economy
in the next six months fell to 16 percent from 29 percent in
June, according to Nanos’s quarterly economic survey. The share
of Canadians who see a weaker economy rose to 38.9 percent from
23.6 percent. The Nanos Expectations Index, which also includes
perceptions related to  home prices , fell to 104.1 in the third
quarter, the lowest since 2009.  The data suggest months of gridlock and brinkmanship
between President Barack Obama and Congressional Republicans has
hurt confidence, and European leaders’ inability to resolve that
continent’s debt crisis may lead to lower spending in  Canada ,
said Nik Nanos, president of the Ottawa-based agency.  “One cannot underestimate the psychological impact of
continuing negative news in terms of political gridlock in the
U.S. and economic uncertainty in Europe,” Nanos said. “These
two forces have created a chill effect among consumers in Canada
and have contributed to a further erosion of Canadian consumer
confidence.”  Nanos’s findings support a  Bank of Canada  survey of
executives released yesterday that found the least optimism
about future sales growth since the beginning of 2009, with
signs of weak global demand leading companies to curb hiring and
investment plans.  Global Recession Risk  In recent weeks, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  and Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  have both raised the possibility that the
global economy risks falling into recession if European leaders
fail to solve their debt crisis. Flaherty, in a speech yesterday
in Dublin, said time is running out for  Europe  before the crisis
spreads.  “This is the world’s most immediate and pressing
problem,” Flaherty said.  In an interview with CBC television recorded Oct. 13, Bank
of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said the global economy will take
“years to fix.”  While consumer optimism is waning, the Nanos poll found the
state of household finances in Canada has been largely
unchanged. The share of Canadians who say their personal
finances have improved over the past year rose to 21.4 percent
from 17.9 percent in June according to the poll, while 72.4
percent of Canadians said their jobs are secure, little changed
from the previous survey in June.  The Nanos Pocketbook Index, based on questions related to
personal finances and job security, rose to 105.9 in the third
quarter, from 104.9 three months earlier.  No Personal Impact  “At this point, although confidence is declining,
Canadians have not registered an impact on their personal
financial wellbeing,” Nanos said.  The Nanos Economic Mood Index, a composite of the
pocketbook index and expectations index, fell to 105.1 in the
third quarter, from 113.  The Nanos poll of 1,209 Canadians was taken between
September 25 and Oct. 2, and has a margin of error of 2.8
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 