-- 
Copper Falls as Slowing Chinese Econony Signals Weakening Demand for Metal

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-10-18T17:48:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/copper-falls-for-a-second-day-as-chinese-growth-slows-down-to-two-year-low.html
Copper fell for a second day as
economic growth slowed to a two-year low in  China , the world’s
largest metals consumer.  Gross domestic product in China rose 9.1 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009,
figures from the country’s statistics bureau showed. Prices also
retreated as investor confidence in  Germany , the third-biggest
copper consumer, reached the lowest level in almost three years.  “Investors sense that accelerating Chinese metal demand
that was so prevalent in prior years may now give way to
decelerating demand, something that may not support a scenario
of higher metals prices over the medium term,”  Edward Meir , a
senior commodity analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in Darien,
Connecticut, said in a report.  Copper futures for December delivery slid 0.5 percent to
close at $3.36 a pound at 1:21 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Yesterday, the price dropped 0.9 percent after Germany said
European Union leaders won’t provide a quick fix to the region’s
debt crisis.  The metal slumped 26 percent in the three months ended
Sept. 30, the biggest quarterly loss since the end of 2008, as
Europe’s debt crisis threatened global growth.  “We continue to believe that the market is overly
optimistic about a quick solution to the very deep structural
issues plaguing the eurozone and would be cautious about the
current bounce in equities and cyclical commodities,” Scott Gardner, who helps manage $400 million at Verdmont Capital SA in
 Panama , said in an e-mail.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 0.6 percent to $7,448 a metric ton ($3.38 a pound).
Aluminum, zinc, lead and tin also dropped in  London . Nickel
rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  