-- 
Costs to Protect U.S. Bank Debt Fall on Credit-Quality Optimism

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-10-18T17:25:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/costs-to-protect-u-s-bank-debt-fall-on-credit-quality-optimism.html
The cost to protect U.S. bank bonds
from default fell, reversing an earlier increase, as investors
turned their attention to signals of improving  credit quality  in
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s earnings.  Credit-default swaps on Bank of America declined 10 basis
points to a mid-price of 380 and those on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
fell 8.8 basis points to a mid-price of 360 as of 11:49 a.m.
in New York, according to broker Phoenix Partners Group.  “The key takeaways here seem to be that BAC is slowly
trending in the right direction, although the pressure in the
markets this quarter did not help,” John Guarnera, a financial
analyst at  Societe Generale  in New York, said in a note today.  Contracts on Citigroup Inc. declined 8.9 basis points to
261.7 and those on Morgan Stanley decreased 7.2 to 417.8
according to data provider CMA. Both banks are based in  New
York .  Default swaps on the six biggest U.S. banks had
climbed to an average of 360 on Oct. 4 on concern that bank
margins are declining and that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
will infect balance sheets, before falling as low as 248 on Oct
12, according to CMA. The average increased to 294 basis points
yesterday.  The costs to protect the debt of Bank of America’s
brokerage unit Merrill Lynch & Co. fell 6.4 basis points to 431,
CMA data show. They soared to 513.3 basis points on Oct. 4. Bank
of America bought Merrill Lynch in January 2009, helping the
largest U.S. brokerage avoid the kind of collapse that had
forced Bear Stearns Cos. to sell itself to JPMorgan.  Credit Downgrade  After Bank of America was hit by a credit downgrade at Moody’s
Investors Service last month, it moved derivatives from its
Merrill Lynch unit to a subsidiary flush with insured deposits,
according to people with direct knowledge of the situation.  A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk rose to a
one-week high, on concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis may spread
after Moody’s Investors Service signaled that  France ’s Aaa
credit rating is under pressure.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index , which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.5 basis point to a
mid-price of 135 basis points at 1:20 p.m. New York time,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, reached the highest level
since Oct. 10. Moody’s said yesterday that France’s debt metrics
are deteriorating, and cited the potential for additional
liabilities from the region’s sovereign debt and banking crisis.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Parry at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net  