-- 
CSX Profit Gain Shows Pricing Power With Volumes Little Changed

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-10-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/csx-third-quarter-profit-rises-12-as-shipping-volumes-climb.html
CSX Corp. (CSX)  led off U.S. railroads’
third-quarter earnings reports with a 12 percent gain in profit
that showed industry pricing power even with shipping volumes
little changed.  Net income rose to $464 million, or 43 cents a share, CSX
said yesterday. That matched the average estimate of 43 cents
from 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg and snapped a streak of
10 quarters in which earnings exceeded estimates at CSX, the
biggest railroad in the eastern U.S.  Revenue from each unit climbed 15 percent in the intermodal
business, which hauls containers that can move by rail, road or
sea, while volumes were unchanged, according to Jacksonville,
Florida-based CSX. Intermodal containers often carry goods bound
for retailers, making the shipments a proxy for consumer demand.  “The leading indicators do not point to significant
growth” in the  U.S. economy ,  Walter Spracklin , an analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
“But they also do not point to declines, so this is consistent
with that view.”  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the biggest U.S. railroad by sales, is
scheduled to release its results Oct. 20 and  Norfolk Southern
Corp. (NSC)  plans to report Oct. 26. Burlington Northern Santa Fe is
owned by Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and typically
issues a quarterly filing when Berkshire does.  Peak Season  CSX’s total shipments increased less than 1 percent,
according to a company statement yesterday. The railroad said it
expects a “more moderate peak shipping season this year” than
in 2010, referring to the typical gains in intermodal volumes
from retailers’ boosting Christmas holiday inventory.  CSX dropped 39 cents to $20.95 after the close of regular
trading in New York yesterday. The shares slid 0.9 percent this
year before today. Spracklin rates CSX as “sector perform.”  Third-quarter sales of $2.96 billion topped the average
estimate of $2.95 billion from 19 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. A year earlier, CSX reported net income of $414 million,
or 36 cents a share.  Revenue from each coal shipment gained 16 percent as
volumes dropped 1.5 percent, CSX said. Rising yields reflect the
railroad’s ability to charge higher prices. Auto, metals and
forest-product deliveries increased.  Operating ratio, a measure of operating expenses over
sales, was 70.4 percent, compared with 69.1 percent a year
earlier. CSX reaffirmed its target of a 65 percent operating
ratio by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  