-- 
Czech Koruna Weakens to Near 9-Month Low on Euro-Area Slowdown

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-10-18T16:27:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/czech-koruna-to-extend-losses-on-slowdown-rate-cuts-bnp-says.html
The koruna slid to near its weakest
against the euro in more than nine months after Morgan Stanley
and BNP Paribas SA said  Europe ’s economic slowdown will likely
prompt the Czech central bank to cut  interest rates .  The koruna slid 0.5 percent to 24.947 per euro by 6:08 p.m.
in Prague, after earlier depreciating to as low as 24.996. The
Czech currency on Sept. 21 reached 25.012 per euro, its weakest
intraday level since January.  European stocks fell today amid concern that France may
lose its top  credit rating  and that the euro area’s debt crisis
will choke growth in the main market for Czech exports. Reports
showed investor confidence in Germany, the Czech Republic’s
biggest trading partner, fell to its lowest in almost three
years and  China’s economy  grew at the slowest pace in two years.  “Central European currencies have found themselves today
under selling pressure related to Europe’s debt crisis and the
increasing threat of a major economic slowdown,”  Jan Vejmelek ,
an analyst at Komercni Banka AS in Prague, wrote in a report.  Policy makers are likely to reduce the two-week repurchase
rate, already at a record-low 0.75 percent, and may try to
weaken the koruna directly in the currency market to boost the
Czech export-based economy, analysts at Morgan Stanley and BNP
Paribas wrote in two separate reports today.  “We expect interest rate cut(s) ahead and latest policy
makers’ comments suggest that this may happen before the
yearend,” Michal Dybula in Warsaw and Bartosz Pawlowski in
 London  wrote in the BNP note. “If weak exports are not enough
to push the koruna weaker, we expect the Czech National Bank to
directly intervene in the market.”  ‘Extraordinary’  The CNB has not intervened in the  currency market  in the
past ten years and would only conduct such operations in case of
“extraordinary” exchange-rate moves, Governor Miroslav Singer
told Prague-based Patria.cz financial website today.  “We think the authorities will show a clear preference
towards a weaker koruna,” London-based Pasquale Diana and James Lord wrote in the Morgan Stanley report. “The growth outlook
remains vulnerable on the downside, given the economy’s
sensitivity to the euro-area growth cycle.”  Morgan expects the koruna to extend losses to 25.4 per euro
and BNP Paribas forecasts the Czech currency to weaken towards
26 per euro in the first half of next year, according to the two
reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  