-- 
Daimler Said to Remind Investors of High Model Rollout Costs, Market Risks

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-10-18T13:28:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/daimler-said-to-remind-investors-of-high-model-rollout-costs-market-risks.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , has been seeking to remind
investors of the higher second-half costs for the introduction
of revamped models in an effort to manage earnings expectations,
a person familiar with the matter said.  The Stuttgart, Germany-based company has been speaking with
analysts to highlight the expense of rolling out next-generation
versions of the M-Class sport-utility vehicle, B-Class compact
and Actros long-haul truck, as well as point out raw material
and foreign exchange risks, the person said, declining to be
identified talking about private discussions.  The model costs will burden second-half earnings by 400
million ($548 million) to 500 million euros, while raw material
and foreign exchange expenses will add about 450 million euros
to expenses, according to Arndt Ellinghorst, a London-based
Credit Suisse analyst with an “outperform” rating on the stock.  Daimler is targeting record sales of Mercedes-Benz cars
this year and last month moved forward its goal of delivering
1.5 million vehicles by one year to 2014. Still, concerns about
the economy prompted Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche to
call on politicians to restore faith in financial markets.
German investor confidence in October fell to the lowest in
almost three years burdened by  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Outlook Confirmed  Daimler said today it’s standing by a target for a “very
significant” rise in 2011 earnings before interest and taxes
even as the economy slows.  “We can confirm our current outlook,” Florian Martens, a
company spokesman, said by phone, adding that there is “no
intention” to change the forecast. The maker of Mercedes-Benz
cars and trucks reports third-quarter results on Oct. 27.  Daimler will report a 28 percent increase in Ebit this year
to 9.14 billion euros, according to the average estimate of 27
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Daimler fell as much as 1.49 euros, or 4.1 percent, to
35.02 euros and was down 0.3 percent to 36.39 euros as of 3:26
p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has dropped 28 percent this
year, valuing the German carmaker at 38.8 billion euros.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 