-- 
Danielle Chiesi’s New Prison Home More Camp Cupcake Than ‘Chained Heat’

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-10-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/danielle-chiesi-s-new-prison-home-more-camp-cupcake-than-chained-heat-.html
Danielle Chiesi won’t need her
pearls and stiletto heels for a while. For the next 30 months,
it’ll be khakis and work boots.  Chiesi, the 45-year-old femme fatale analyst who pleaded
guilty to  securities fraud  in the biggest U.S. insider-trading
case on record, is set to arrive today at Federal Prison Camp
Alderson in  West Virginia . She’ll be serving time for passing
illegal stock tips to hedge-fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , who was
sentenced last week to 11 years in federal prison.  Alderson, nestled in the foothills of the Allegheny
Mountains, ranks among the cushiest federal prisons. It’s more
college campus than  “Chained Heat,”  the 1983 exploitation film
about women in jail. The red brick, Georgian Revival buildings
of Camp Cupcake, as former inmates call Alderson, were modeled
after  Bucknell University  in Lewisburg,  Pennsylvania . There are
no fences, barbed wire or guard towers. For the 1,166 prisoners,
tedium is a bigger threat than violence.  Even so, for educated professionals like Chiesi who are
used to calling the shots, the prison experience can be
devastating, said Herbert Hoelter, head of the nonprofit
 National Center on Institutions and Alternatives  in Baltimore.  “Every decision is made for you -- when you work, when you
eat -- it doesn’t vary,” he said. “You feel useless,” added
Hoelter, who provided pre-incarceration counseling to white-
collar criminals  Michael Milken  and  Ivan Boesky .  The nation’s first women’s prison, Alderson opened in 1927,
and counts home-entertainment guru Martha Stewart, singer Billie
Holiday and Charles Manson acolyte Lynette “Squeaky” Fromme
(who escaped into the woods for two days in 1987 before being
recaptured and transferred to another prison) as former inmates.  Khakis and Boots  Alan Kaufman , Chiesi’s lawyer, said his client was
“resilient and strong” and prepared to serve her time. Chiesi
declined to comment for this article.  “I guess she’s doing as well as anybody can to get ready
for it,” Kaufman said in an Oct. 14 interview. “It’s certainly
not like your first day at summer camp.”  Prisoners at Alderson live in two, two-story dormitory
buildings, broken into four units, called ranges, that each hold
about 120 women, said Sam Adams, a public information officer at
the prison. Women are assigned in pairs to 8-foot by 10-foot
doorless cubicles, or “cubes,” with concrete floors, a bunk
bed and two lockers. They share a desk, bulletin board and
garbage can. The cinderblock walls rise about seven feet,
meaning the woman on the top bunk can see out over the entire
room.  With no doors and walls, the noise in the ranges is
deafening, and even ear plugs (40 cents in the commissary) can’t
block it out, said Jennifer Myers, a former inmate who served 14
months at Alderson for marijuana trafficking before being
released in 2007.  $290 a Month  Chiesi, a former teenage beauty queen who would show up at
technology conferences wearing form-fitting clothes and low-cut
tops, will have to make do with a uniform of khaki pants and
shirt and steel-toe boots during her stay. The only other
clothes allowed -- pajamas, sneakers and athletic clothes like
sweatshirts, shorts and t-shirts -- can be bought in the
commissary.  The University of  Colorado  graduate, who appeared at her
sentencing in July wearing a light pink sleeveless sheath dress
and pearl necklace, solicited inside information from technology
industry executives including  Robert Moffat , a former
International Business Machines Corp. executive with whom she
had an intimate relationship. Moffat was sentenced to six months
in prison and was released in May.  Alderson inmates can spend up to $290 a month at the prison
store on items such as soap, hairspray, snacks, a $44 radio, a
reading light and wool to crochet. Most everyone crochets
themselves an extra blanket, said former inmates.  Sunbathing Allowed  Rules abound, outlined in the  72-page handbook  given to
inmates on their first day.  Prisoners are required to wear bras and underwear except
when sleeping or showering. They can sunbathe on the lawn during
their leisure time, but must wear mid-thigh length shorts and
cannot apply tanning lotion to one another.  They can’t roll up sleeves of their t-shirts.  Save for one piece of fruit, they are forbidden from
bringing food out of the dining hall.  Inmates can have only five paperback books, five magazines
and two newspapers at a time that friends and family order on
their behalf. They can be sent a calendar, although the prison
may reject it if it is held together with a spiral wire, staples
or glue.  Inside the compound, just like in the outside world, the
inmates find ways to break the rules, say former prisoners.  Smuggling Food  Women smuggle out food from the cafeteria. They hide sugar
packets and crackers in their socks and conceal larger items
like eggs under their shirts, said one former inmate who spent
four years in Alderson and asked not to be identified to protect
her privacy.  Touching among inmates is not allowed, though Myers and the
other former inmate say that sexual relationships do take place.
Most of the fights that the unnamed prisoner saw were caused by
jealous friends or lovers, including one incident when an inmate
threw hot coffee at another woman. Serious violence is rare, the
two former inmates said, and can result in a transfer to a more
secure prison.  Lesser infractions, whether having contraband items,
feigning illness to get out of work or missing one of the five
daily headcounts, can cause inmates to lose one or more of the
54 days off their sentence they can earn each year for good
behavior, said Myers, 43, who lives in  San Diego  and works as a
consultant to criminals about to enter prison. In prison lingo,
that’s called getting a “shot.”  No Eavesdropping  Then there are the unwritten rules among inmates. “You
don’t touch other people’s belongings. You don’t eavesdrop and
you don’t ‘ear hustle,’ or butt into other people’s
conversations,” said Myers, who is currently working on a book
about her experiences at Alderson.  Even with the noise, the lack of privacy and the
overcrowded conditions, most women get along, she said.  “You would be surprised the care that the women have for
one another, even when they are from different social classes,”
said Myers, a college graduate, who helped out by teaching a
Pilates class and by volunteering on suicide watch.  “At a certain point, you bond because everyone has a
shared experience,” she said. They might make a special dessert
to celebrate a “bunkie’s” birthday and they give each other
nicknames, she said.  Martha Stewart ’s was M. Diddy, according to
a 2005 interview she gave in  Vanity Fair .  Limited Contact  Memrie Lewis, a friend of Stewart’s interviewed in the
Vanity Fair article, said Stewart spent her time reading books
and studying Spanish. She was also in charge of decorating the
prison for Christmas, with a $50 budget, and read her Christmas
cards to the other prisoners.  Contact with the outside world is limited. Conjugal visits
are prohibited, and family and friends can see prisoners only
Fridays through Mondays and on holidays. There is no Internet
access and phone calls are expensive at 23 cents a minute and
limited to 300 minutes a month.  For five cents per minute, prisoners can send and receive
e-mails through a special prison computer system. All other
correspondence is done by hand or on electric typewriters
available in the library. (The commissary sells white correction
tape).  Food offers little distraction. The meals, primarily
chicken-based, are heavy on the starch and light on the
vegetables, though the cafeteria does offer an iceberg lettuce
salad bar.  Cosmetology in Demand  Former inmate Myers said she survived on tuna bought in the
commissary at $1.25 a can. Prisoners do attempt  creative cooking 
with the microwave ovens provided in the ranges, mixing items
like Laughing Cow cheese and Snickers bars sold in the store
with margarine pilfered from the cafeteria to make cheesecake,
she said.  Every inmate must work. New prisoners start out in the
dining hall, and can apply for other jobs after three months.
The pay is anywhere from 40 cents an hour to $5.25 a month and
the tasks range from teacher’s aide for high-school equivalency
classes to working in the recreation area to sorting through
garbage for recyclables.  Inmates can also apply for limited spots in vocational
classes where they can be trained as welders, electricians or
cosmetologists -- the most sought-after option.  Getting Along  After the workday ends and the prisoners are counted at
4:15 p.m., they have five hours of leisure time before the final
count of the day at 9:15 p.m. The prison offers crafts such as
pottery and leatherwork. For the more athletically inclined,
there are softball, volleyball and basketball games, and inmates
can run or walk on the track. There is a law library, as well as
religious services and inmate choirs. The prisoners also put on
periodic talent shows.  Chiesi, who was told by a judge in July to seek drug-and-
alcohol treatment, may be eligible for the nine-month resident
drug program. Drug-law offenders make up about 80 percent to 90
percent of the Alderson population, said Hoelter, the prison
consultant. If Chiesi is accepted, she may get as much as six
months trimmed from her sentence, said Kaufman, her lawyer.  Chiesi’s skills in charming information out of sources may
go a long way in prison, where getting along with other inmates
and with guards, and networking for the best jobs, can make or
break her time inside, Hoelter and the former inmates said.  ‘I Will Survive’  In a July 24, 2008, telephone conversation played during
Rajaratnam’s trial, Chiesi told Rajaratnam that she “played” a
friend “like a finely tuned piano” after getting a tip that
Akamai Technologies Inc. would cut its earnings forecast.  “You did it in such a classy way,” Rajaratnam said in the
taped call. “The way you worked the relationship.”  Chiesi, in an earlier interview, said she was confident
she’d make it through her time in Alderson.  “I anticipate to survive,” she told a group of reporters
outside the courtroom where she was sentenced in July. When
asked how she would achieve that, she smiled. “By breathing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  