-- 
Danone Said to Be in Talks to Sell Bottled Water Assets to Japan’s Suntory

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-10-18T16:54:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/danone-said-to-discuss-sale-of-water-assets-to-suntory-to-support-food-bid.html
Danone (BN) , the owner of the Evian and
Volvic brands, is in discussions to sell bottled-water assets to
Japan’s Suntory Holdings Ltd., three people familiar with the
matter said.  Paris-based Danone is seeking to reach an agreement to sell
the assets by the end of the year, said the people, who asked
not to be named because the talks aren’t public. The proceeds
may then be used to fund a possible offer for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
infant-nutrition business, said one person. Suntory may seek to
buy only water operations in  Asia , two people said.  “The water business has decent growth, but it’s slightly
below the group average and profitability is also below,” said
Marco Gulpers, an analyst at ING Financial Markets with a
“buy” recommendation on the stock. “If it meant a swap with
another nutrition business, that could make sense.”  Bottled-water is a “strategic” business for Danone, Chief
Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse said on a webcast today
after the company reported an 11 percent gain in third-quarter
sales that beat analysts’ estimates. He declined to comment
further. Bottled-water sales on a comparable basis gained 7.9
percent in the quarter, led by  Latin America  and Asia, Danone
said. Cold weather in western  Europe  weighed on sales there.  Suntory isn’t formally in negotiations for Danone’s water
assets, said Midori Takahashi, a spokeswoman for Suntory.  Danone shares rose 2.2 percent in Paris trading today,
closing at 46.40 euros. They’ve fallen 1.3 percent this year.  Gauging Interest  Danone officials met with Kirin Holdings Co., Asahi
Breweries Ltd. and Suntory last November to gauge their interest
in part or all of the water business, people with knowledge of
the matter said at the time. The talks with Suntory over the
Asian piece of the unit have advanced the most, one person said.  Talks could collapse and there is no guarantee a deal will
be reached. Danone was seeking $5 billion to $7 billion for the
entire water business last year, people said then.  Danone’s bottled-water unit had 2010 revenue of 2.87
billion euros ($4 billion), or about 17 percent of the company’s
total sales. Closely held Suntory, based in  Osaka ,  Japan , is
expanding abroad as the country’s population shrinks.  Suntory  bought Frucor, Danone’s Australia and New Zealand
drinks unit, in 2009. The two companies also had a water-cooler
joint venture in the U.S. that ended in 2005. Suntory is the
Japanese partner of Haagen-Dazs ice cream, in addition to
brewing beer and selling bottled water, tea and fruit juice-
based drinks.  Pfizer may send sales documents about its infant-nutrition
unit to suitors in November, people familiar with the matter
said last month. A sale may fetch as much as $10.5 billion and
attract interest from companies including Nestle SA and Abbott
Laboratories in addition to Danone, people said in July.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co., the world’s largest standalone
baby formula maker, has also been named by analysts and
investors as a potential takeover target for companies such as
Nestle and Danone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  