-- 
Danone Third-Quarter Revenue Beats Estimates on China, Indonesia

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-10-18T05:30:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/danone-third-quarter-revenue-beats-estimates-on-china-indonesia.html
Danone (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt
maker, reported third-quarter revenue that beat estimates as it
sold more  baby food  and medical nutrition products in  China  and
Indonesia.  So-called like-for-like sales increased 5.9 percent, the
Paris-based company said today in an e-mailed statement. That
beat analyst estimates of 5.5 percent growth and compares to 8.7
percent growth in the first half. Total revenue rose to 4.81
billion euros ($6.6 billion) from 4.35 billion euros a year
earlier, exceeding the 4.79 billion-euro average estimate of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Like-for-like sales of baby food rose 11 percent, helped by
the  Middle East , the U.K. and Turkey, while medical nutrition
had 10 percent growth in the quarter, led by  Brazil , the
Netherlands and the U.K. Danone Chairman Franck Riboud said he’s
"confident" for results this year and next in the statement.  “In medical nutrition, growth is coming more and more from
emerging markets and western  Europe ,” Chief Financial Officer
Pierre-Andre Terisse said on a conference call with journalists.  Growth at Danone’s bottled-water business slowed after a
spike in demand following the March earthquake and tsunami in
Japan. Currency swings also trimmed 3.7 percent off revenue
during the period. Danone said last month it expected like-for-
like revenue to rise 5 percent to 6 percent in the third
quarter.  Danone reiterated its guidance for 2011, saying its
operating margin will probably increase 0.2 percentage point,
excluding certain items. The company expects like-for-like sales
to increase 6 percent to 8 percent. That revenue figure excludes
divestments and currency changes and is reported on a basis that
assumed Danone owned Unimilk from the start of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  