-- 
De Beers Sees Diamond Price Steadying After Rising More Than 35%, CEO Says

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-10-19T16:39:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/de-beers-sees-diamond-prices-steadyng-after-rising-more-than-35-ceo-says.html
De Beers, supplier of about a third
of the world’s rough diamonds, said prices of the gems may
“stick” at current levels after demand from  India  and  China 
spurred a rally of more than 35 percent this year.  Rising wealth in the two countries is enabling consumers to
buy more diamond jewelry, compensating for slower growth in the
U.S., the biggest retail-gem market. Demand from  East Asia  has
caused a supply shortage, which pushed up prices this year,
Chief Executive Officer Philippe Mellier said in an interview.  “We’re now reaching a new plateau from which prices are
going to oscillate,” Mellier, 56, said by phone yesterday. “I
am expecting this new level of pricing to stick.”  Rough-diamond prices advanced 49 percent in the first half,
accelerating after two straight years of more than 30 percent
growth as stagnant output failed to meet Asian demand, according
to data from  PolishedPrices.com .  De Beers  was among producers
caught on the back foot after idling mines as the global
economic crisis eroded gem sales.  Retail demand in India and China is “very, very strong”
and sales in the U.S. are growing, defying expectations of a
decline, Mellier said from  London . “All the numbers we are
receiving from the U.S., from our partners, from our own stores,
are telling us that the sales are up, not hugely up, but up,”
he said.  New CEO  Mellier, a former Alstom SA executive, was appointed to
head De Beers in May, marking a break with tradition as the
Johannesburg-based company previously promoted from within. De
Beers is 45 percent-held by  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , 40 percent by
South Africa’s Oppenheimer family and 15 percent by Botswana.  De Beers estimated in February that the U.S. bought about
38 percent of diamond jewelry in 2010, with India making up
about 10 percent and China and  Hong Kong  a combined 11 percent.
“We don’t see any softening of the demand,” Mellier said.  De Beers should post record or near-record sales in 2011,
Des Kilalea, a London-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said
in a note earlier this month. Sales at De Beers’s trading arm
will be about $6.4 billion this year, its second-highest result,
according to RBC forecasts.  After rising from January to July, prices probably dropped
as much as 25 percent, having “simply risen too far, too
fast,” Kilalea said. Prices may hold steady in the next few
months, he said.  ‘Strong Demand’  “Our feeling, without sounding too optimistic, is that
retail is generally strong,” Mellier said, in reference to
global sales. De Beers expects “a pretty good start next year
because there is strong demand from Asian customers.”  Russia’s OAO Alrosa, De Beers’ biggest rival, said
yesterday that average sales prices rose 30 percent to $109 a
carat in the first half, compared with $84 over the whole of
2010. Alrosa had sales of $2.1 billion in the half, while De
Beers’s trading arm had $3.5 billion.  De Beers posted record earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of $1.4 billion in 2010 following
a 57 percent surge in trading-division sales to $5.08 billion.  The company will probably produce 33 million carats to 35
million carats this year, compared with 33 million carats last
year, Mellier said. A carat is equivalent to a fifth of a gram.  “It’s going to take some time for the industry to reach
the production level of 2008, the last big production year
before the crisis,” Mellier said, adding that it may take two
to five years.  De Beers mines diamonds by itself and in joint ventures in
 South Africa ,  Canada , Botswana and  Namibia .  Last month, the company agreed to move its diamond sorting
and trading operations to Botswana by the end of 2013, ending an
arrangement for sales in London that’s been in place since 1888.  De Beers hasn’t seen any “overreaction” to the plan from
clients, many of whom already have operations in the southern
African country, Mellier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  