-- 
Delaware Bankruptcy Capital Status May End With Proposed Law

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-10-18T20:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/delaware-s-status-as-u-s-bankruptcy-capital-may-end-under-proposed-law.html
Delaware  would lose its status as
the premier venue for U.S. bankruptcy cases, costing the state’s
economy an estimated $100 million a year, under a bipartisan
bill sponsored by leaders of the House Judiciary Committee.  Lamar Smith , the Texas Republican who chairs the Judiciary
panel, introduced the bill with Michigan’s  John Conyers , its
ranking Democrat. The  aim  is to prevent court-shopping and make
companies reorganize at home “to ensure maximum input from all
affected stakeholders,” Smith said in a statement. Delaware’s
Congressional delegation disagreed, citing the Wilmington-based
court’s expertise.  “When someone has a specific medical problem, they go to a
specialist,” Representative  John Carney , a Democrat, said in an
e-mail. “Delaware’s courts are our nation’s bankruptcy
specialists.” The state’s two U.S. senators, Democrats Thomas Carper and  Chris Coons , also oppose the bill.  Under the measure, a corporation may file for Chapter 11
reorganization only in the federal district where its principal
place of business or assets are located.  The Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Venue Reform Act of 2011 would
thus rule out most of the 90 public companies that since 2006
have sought protection from creditors in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in Wilmington, Delaware, where they are incorporated.  Bill’s Supporters  The bill has support from non-Delaware lawmakers seeking
“to show they are looking after the interests of their
constituents who are attorneys active in the political process
and generous with their checkbooks,” said Neal Colton, a
bankruptcy attorney at Cozen O’Connor in Philadelphia.  Though no companion Senate bill has been introduced, Colton
said he considers the House bill “a very serious piece of
legislation.”  Besides Smith and Conyers, it’s sponsored by Howard Coble,
the North Carolina Republican who chairs the House subcommittee
on courts, and Tennessee Democrat  Steve Cohen .  Samuel Gerdano, executive director of the  American
Bankruptcy Institute , said the bill “has no chance of passing
in my opinion.”  “Delaware has many supporters within the bankruptcy
community, including creditor interests and major banks who have
come to rely on the predictability and reliability of practicing
there,” said Gerdano, whose group has 13,000 lawyers and
financial professionals who specialize in bankruptcy as members.  Delaware’s Ascendance  Delaware’s ascendance as a center for bankruptcy filings
came in response to New Jersey’s quest more than a century ago
to become the U.S. corporation capital, according to  University
of California , Los Angeles Professor Lynn M. LoPucki in his 2005
book, “Courting Failure.”  The Delaware General Corporation Law of 1899 sought to make
state regulations less burdensome and develop a more predictable
basis of court precedent for business disputes. The reform
attracted more companies and, by the 1920s, “no state could
best Delaware,” LoPucki wrote.  “Nearly all of the large companies that file for
bankruptcy in Delaware are incorporated in Delaware,” David A. Skeel Jr., a  University of Pennsylvania  law professor, said last
month in testimony to Congress. The proposed legislation “would
make it impossible for most to file” for bankruptcy there.  Under current law, a company can file for bankruptcy in its
state of incorporation, which for 63 percent of Fortune 500
companies is Delaware, according to the state.  State’s Influence  Courts there have often “established the tone and legal
direction of corporate governance in America,” according to
Directorship, a magazine for board members.  Wilmington attorney Lewis S. Black, in an  article  printed
and distributed by the state, said Delaware’s “advanced and
flexible” corporation law, its Court of Chancery and a pro-
business attitude among citizens all contribute to its
popularity as a place for incorporation. The court’s judges hear
cases without juries, and punitive damages aren’t available to
plaintiffs.  Joseph J. Farnan Jr., a retired federal judge who heard
bankruptcy cases in Wilmington, said the Smith-Conyers bill may
stem from a desire of bankruptcy judges elsewhere to bring
business to their areas.  “I think they see the benefits Delaware has seen
economically,” he said.  Economic Importance  Lawyers and politicians have been complaining about
Delaware’s bankruptcy dominance for decades, former congressman
and ex-governor Michael Castle said in an interview. “It seems
to me it had been an ongoing proposition, most of the time I was
in Congress.”  The political impetus for change probably comes from local
attorneys who feel they are missing out on the chance to
represent clients with headquarters in their hometowns, Castle
said.  The state’s economy garners about $100 million a year in
bankruptcy-generated legal fees and spending, according to a
database maintained by LoPucki.  This isn’t the first effort to change the law. A similar
measure in 2005 sponsored by Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas
Republican, died in committee.  The UCLA database shows that 155 public companies with
assets of more than $500 million sought  bankruptcy protection  in
Delaware from 2000 to 2011. That is 38 percent of the U.S. total
of 405.  New York ’s Southern District, which includes  Manhattan ,
was second with 93 cases, or 23 percent. The New York economy
benefitted by as much as $190 million because of larger cases
and higher costs, according to the data.  Gregory J. Wawro , a political scientist at  Columbia
University  in New York, said backers of the bill have an
advantage because Delaware is a small state with just one House
member.  ‘Sheer Numbers’  “Based on sheer numbers, they should be able to find a
majority in favor of it,” he said.  Law firms in Wilmington with bankruptcy practices include
 Richards Layton & Finger PA  and  Young Conaway Stargatt & Taylor
LLP . National firms with offices in Wilmington include  Weil,
Gotshal & Manges LLP  and  Pepper Hamilton LLP .  Some firms might move or shrink if bankruptcies dry up,
said Charles M. Elson, director of the University of Delaware’s
 Center for Corporate Governance . The change would cut the
state’s wage and property tax revenue and hurt businesses like
restaurants and copying services -- “an impact we don’t need,”
he said.  The bill was supported in U.S.  House testimony  last month
by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Frank J. Bailey of  Boston .  “At the very heart of the concept of venue is the idea
that those affected by a court proceeding should have access,”
Bailey told the subcommittee on courts.  Magnet Courts  So-called magnet courts in New York and Delaware are
accessible only by major creditors, not company employees, local
officials, landlords and small vendors, Bailey said.  The judge pointed to the bankruptcies of Polaroid Corp. and
 Evergreen Solar Inc. (ESLR)  as companies closely identified with the
people and government of  Massachusetts  that filed in Wilmington,
a six-hour drive away.  Evergreen received $58 million in state incentives to put a
plant in Massachusetts, Bailey said. Polaroid’s headquarters
were in Cambridge, Massachusetts, from its inception in 1937
until after its first Chapter 11 reorganization in 2001. After
being bought by Minneapolis-based Petters Group Worldwide LLC in
2005, Polaroid entered bankruptcy again in 2008 in  Minnesota .  Attorney Peter C. Califano, a Cooper White & Cooper LLP
partner testifying for the  Commercial Law League of America ,
argued at the House hearing that the bill would move
bankruptcies “back to the communities most affected by the
outcome.”  Home Towns  Colton, the Cozen O’Connor lawyer, disputed the claim that
putting cases in the home towns of businesses would boost small
creditors’ involvement.  “As a general rule, little creditors do not actively
participate in bankruptcy cases,” he said in an interview.
“They don’t have the time or the sophistication.”  Also opposing the bill is  Edward T. Gavin , a principal in
the turnaround firm  NHB Advisors  in Wilmington.  “It’s a bad solution to a problem that doesn’t exist,”
Gavin said. Creditors aren’t locked into the filing jurisdiction
since they can ask that the case be moved, he said.  Bankruptcy judges are appointed to 14-year terms, with the
number in each district determined by Congress. Delaware has
six. Massachusetts, with seven times the population, has five.
New York’s Southern District, which includes Manhattan, has 11.  Manhattan Courts  Manhattan courts sometimes handle bigger cases than
Delaware’s, including those of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ,
the largest in history, with assets of $715 billion, and  Ambac
Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , with more than $19.5 billion, according to
the UCLA database.  Delaware’s largest case last year was Affiliated Media
Inc., with $2.71 billion in assets listed on the database.  Nicholas Govatos, 58, owns Govatos  restaurant  a few doors
from the Wilmington courthouse on Market Street. His place is
sometimes packed with lawyers and briefcases that “take up the
aisles,” he said.  States like Texas and Nevada that are hungry for bankruptcy
business already have “cattle businesses and casinos,” Govatos
said. “I think they should leave Delaware alone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 