-- 
Dragon Babies Escaping China One-Child Policy Overrun Hong Kong Hospitals

-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 
2011-10-18T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/dragon-babies-escaping-one-child-policy-overrun-hong-kong-wards.html
Hong Kong resident Renee James
wanted to keep news of her pregnancy quiet for a few months. Her
doctor urged her to book a hospital immediately. By the time
James started calling at 10 weeks, it was too late.  Every  private hospital  with a maternity ward in Hong Kong,
where Australian James and her husband have lived for two years,
was full at the time of her due date. The reason: Mainland
mothers-to-be are filling the slots to avoid  China ’s one-child
policy and win  residency  rights for their children.  “Back home, you rarely tell people that you’re pregnant
before 12 weeks,” said James, an engineer, adding that she was 
calling hospitals “even before I told all my friends.”  The number of babies born in the city almost doubled in the
decade to 2010, thanks to 232,536 babies born to mainland
mothers, according to the city’s Census and Statistics
Department. The influx is pushing the city’s neonatal intensive
care units to beyond designed capacity and forcing some mothers
to resort to emergency wards for childbirth, doctors say.  “In the coming few months it’s going to be chaotic,” said
Cheung Tak Hong, who runs the obstetrics and gynecology
department at the public  Prince of Wales Hospital . “The number
of deliveries in 2011 will outnumber the ones in 2010.”  York Chow ,  Hong Kong ’s food and health secretary, agreed in
June to cap the number of non-residents allowed to give birth in
the city next year at 34,000. Mainlanders delivered 40,648
babies there in 2010. “Hong Kong cannot accept that we have a
deterioration of our standard of care simply because we are
overwhelmed by unexpected workload,” he said in an interview.  ER Switch  That may not solve the issue as some mainlanders who fail
to get a place turn to emergency rooms, affecting care for
residents, said Cheung. The number of births from non-local
women in public emergency wards almost doubled to 156 in August,
from 86 in April, according to the city’s Hospital Authority.  A 2000  Court of Final Appeal decision  ensures that all
children of mainland Chinese parents born in Hong Kong are
entitled to residency, said Richard Cullen, a University of Hong
Kong law professor. The U.S. is among few developed nations that
grant automatic citizenship to children born within its borders.  Hong Kong’s maternity hospitals may also come under more
strain next year because it is the year of the dragon in the 12-
year Chinese zodiac, said Bill Chan, spokesman for the Neonatal
Service Concern Group, set up in April by the city’s eight
public neonatal intensive care units or NICUs. About 5 percent
more babies are born in a dragon year as the symbol of China’s
emperors is considered to impart power and wealth, said Cheung.  Dragon Baby  Shenzhen resident Ling, who declined to provide her last
name for fear of repercussions from Chinese authorities, applied
for a place at Hong Kong’s Baptist Hospital to have her own
dragon baby in April. The 34-year-old owner of a garment factory
has a 7-year-old daughter, and wants to circumvent China’s one-
child policy, instituted in 1979 to constrain  population growth .  “I can afford the fees, so why not?” she said in a phone
interview. “I want my baby to be a Hong Kong citizen.”  In Hong Kong, a pregnant woman usually books a private
hospital slot through her gynecologist. If the baby arrives
early and the department is full at that time, she may have to
go to another hospital. Meanwhile, mainlanders have pushed up
the rate of cesarean sections, often to ensure the baby is born
at a convenient or auspicious time, said Kun Ka Yan, a private
obstetrician and gynecologist.  C-Sections  C-section rates in private hospitals were about 60 percent
in 2010, according to the government, compared with 24 percent
at public hospitals. The highest recorded rate for the operation
in the U.S., in 2007, was  32 percent , according to the  U.S.
Department of Health  and Human Services.  The rise in deliveries has boosted revenues of private
hospitals, most of which are run as non-profit businesses.  Deliveries at  Union Hospital , owned by Henderson Land
chairman Lee Shau-Kee, rose almost nine fold, to 4,816 in 2010,
from 556 in 2005. Occupancy at the hospital, which uses 78 of
its 300 beds for obstetrics and gynecology, went
“uncontrollably up” after the 2000 court ruling, said Ares
Leung, the deputy medical director.  Union will introduce in 2012 a minimum charge of HK$58,000
($7,400) for a three-night stay in a standard room with a
vaginal delivery. That can rise to HK$130,000 for a four-night
stay in a private room with a cesarean.  After phoning the private hospitals, James contacted the
public wards to discover that she was too late to enroll there
also. Her doctor said she may have to go back to  Australia  to
give birth. At 13 weeks, a private hospital had a cancellation.
She is still on the waiting list for her preferred hospital.  Book Early  By contrast, local resident Alice Tang booked a hospital
spot immediately after taking a home pregnancy test. “I knew
from my friends I had to book very early on,” she said.  The influx of Chinese from across the border has affected
more than just hospital places. Mainland buying helped drive up
 home prices  and contributed to a consumer sales boom from nearly
3 million visitors in August, government figures show. The
city’s education bureau said that 9,899 children crossed the
border from China to attend school in the 2010-2011 school year.  At the hospitals, deliveries outpaced staffing, causing
departments to “scream for help” last year, said Cheung, the
obstetrician. Recruitment from public wards left a deficit of
240 nurses in public NICUs in April, said Chan, a neonatologist
at the government-run United Christian Hospital.  Lives at Stake  “Neonatal care is an even bigger issue,” said Chan.
“Those are the urgent ones, the ones where lives are at
stake.” The city’s 100 NICU beds have been operating above
official capacity for several years now, said Chan.  At the Prince of Wales Hospital, nearest to the Chinese
border, the NICU typically has at least three patients more than
its designated 21 beds, increasing the risk of infection and
error, said pediatrician P.C. Ng, who runs the department.  While mainland mothers must pay private-patient prices for
a delivery in Hong Kong, the newborn baby is entitled to the
city’s 97 percent subsidy for health care. A day’s supply of
oxygen to a baby at a private NICU is about HK$30,000. Public
hospitals charge HK$50 a day inclusive of medical services.  Cheung said border patrols to stop pregnant women entering
Hong Kong without a hospital booking are hampered by mainland
travel agents that sell all-inclusive maternity packages.  “They can still easily go through,” said Cheung, who
urged the government to raise the fee and punishment for non-
residents who show up at emergency departments. “With the
agents, everything becomes so easy.”  Clare Green, whose husband works at an international bank
in Hong Kong, had to wait until she was almost 37 weeks pregnant
to get a place at Matilda Hospital.  “It was stressful,” she said. “I was worried in case I
delivered early -- what would the process be?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  