-- 
Dupont’s Pioneer Sues Monsanto Over Patents for Seed-Making

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-10-18T22:25:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/dupont-s-pioneer-sues-monsanto-over-patents-for-seed-making.html
DuPont Co.’s Pioneer Hi-Bred unit
expanded its grievances against  Monsanto Co. (MON)  with a lawsuit
alleging infringement of two patents for producing corn seed
that can withstand environmental stress.  Monsanto is defoliating corn plants between pollination and
harvest to produce more vigorous seeds, a method patented by
Pioneer, DuPont said today in a complaint filed in federal court
in  Des Moines ,  Iowa . Two of the Pioneer inventors now work for
St. Louis-based Monsanto, DuPont said.  The companies have been trading lawsuits since DuPont
bought Pioneer in 1999. The most recent case was filed in 2009,
when Monsanto accused Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont of
infringing patents for seeds that resist Roundup, the world’s
best-selling herbicide. DuPont responded by accusing Monsanto of
using its dominance in biotechnology seeds to stifle
competition.  The patents, one issued in 1996 and the other in 2000,
cover a way to defoliate plants before harvesting to improve the
quality of maize seed. The goal is to produce better plants,
even if the weather or soil isn’t optimal, according to the
patents.  The “novel seed production technique” improves seed
germination under environmental stress, said Dan Turner, a
spokesman for DuPont, the world’s second-biggest seed producer
behind Monsanto.  Kelli Powers, a Monsanto spokeswoman, had no immediate
comment when reached by telephone.  Antitrust Counterclaim  A trial is scheduled for June in  St. Louis  on Monsanto’s
effort to block a plan that would use Monsanto’s Roundup Ready
trait with DuPont’s GAT genetics. The DuPont technology is an
alternative way for seeds to survive applications of the Roundup
glyphosate herbicide. DuPont’s antitrust counterclaims, which
contend Monsanto’s patents were fraudulently obtained, are
scheduled for trial in April 2013.  The case is Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc. v. Monsanto
Co., 11cv497, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
Iowa (Des Moines).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  