-- 
Heart-Failure Hospital Stays Fall Among Elderly as U.S. Saves $4 Billion

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-10-18T20:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/heart-failure-hospital-stays-plunge-as-u-s-saves-4-billion-study-shows.html
The number of older Americans
hospitalized with heart failure declined 30 percent from 1998 to
2008, saving the U.S. health insurance program for the elderly
$4.1 billion annually, researchers said.  In the largest study of its kind, investigators analyzed
heart-failure hospitalizations among 55 million people in the
U.S.  Medicare  program. An extra 229,000 hospital stays among the
27.3 million people in Medicare’s fee-for-service program in
2008 would have occurred if rates had stayed the same, the
report in the  Journal of the American Medical Association  found.  The decline in hospital stays may be due to better
cardiovascular care, improved heart-failure treatment and a
focus on outpatient therapy, researchers said in today’s report.
Each hospital stay costs about $18,000. The number of people
with cardiovascular disease is falling as more patients get
treatment for hypertension and heart rhythm devices from
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  that can reduce
repeat heart failure episodes, according to the study.  “It’s a success for cardiology and for medicine to have
such a decline,” said lead researcher Jersey Chen, an assistant
professor of internal medicine and cardiology at Yale University
School of Medicine. “Fewer people may be developing heart
failure because we are preventing it. It could also be that
patients who have heart failure are on medicines or have devices
that prevent them from worsening again.”  The dramatic drop in hospitalizations for heart failure
benefits society as well as patients, Chen said in a telephone
interview. Heart failure is one of the most expensive medical
conditions to treat, costing an estimated $39.2 billion in 2010,
according to the  American Heart Association .  First Improvement  Public health experts began focusing on heart-failure
hospitalizations in the early 1990s, when studies showed 15
percent of patients died and 30 percent were readmitted within
three months, wrote cardiologists Mihai Gheorghiade from
Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine in  Chicago 
and Eugene Braunwald from Brigham and Women’s Hospital and
 Harvard Medical School  in  Boston , in an editorial.  The study “is the first to document an improvement in
hospitalization rates in heart failure in the  United States ,”
they wrote.  While the study suggests heart-failure hospitalization
rates have declined in recent years, “the overall mortality
rate and readmission rate for heart failure remains unacceptably
high,” they said. “New approaches for patients hospitalized
for heart failure must be developed.”  Almost 6 million Americans suffer from heart failure and
the risk increases with age. It is one of the most common causes
of hospitalization and little progress had been made in
developing medicines to treat it.  Slight Mortality Decline  The decline in heart-failure hospitalizations didn’t appear
to hurt patients. In the study, the one-year  mortality rate 
dipped slightly, with 29.6 percent dying within 12 months in
2008, down from 31.7 percent in 1999.  “It’s still a deadly disease, with 30 percent odds of
dying in a year,” Chen said. “The success isn’t for treating
heart failure. The success, as this study suggests, is in
preventing the development of heart failure.”  While heart-failure hospitalization rates fell for patients
of all ages and races, black men and those living in  Rhode
Island ,  Connecticut  and Wyoming had the slowest decline, the
study found. The risk of dying within a year actually increased
in  South Dakota ,  Arizona , Alaska, Kentucky and Louisiana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  