-- 
Echo, Getin, Pekao, Unipetrol: Central European Equity Preview

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-10-18T06:51:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/echo-getin-pekao-unipetrol-central-european-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in central European
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names.
Share prices are from the last close.  Poland ’s WIG20 Index fell 0.6 percent, the Czech PX Index
dropped 1.9 percent and  Hungary ’s BUX Index rose less than 0.1
percent.  Echo Investment SA (ECH)  : The property developer
controlled by Polish billionaire Michal Solowow was raised to
“overweight” from “neutral” at JPMorgan Chase & Co. Echo
declined 2.7 percent to 3.68 zloty.  Getin Holding SA (GTN)  : The financial-services group
controlled by Polish billionaire Leszek Czarnecki was upgraded
to “hold” from “sell” at ING Groep NV. Getin lost 3.7
percent to 8.33 zloty.  Kredyt Bank SA (KRB)  : The Polish bank that KBC Groep NV
is seeking to sell was upgraded to “buy” from “hold” at
UniCredit SpA. Kredyt Bank fell 0.8 percent to 14.13 zloty.  Bank Pekao SA (PEO)  : Poland’s second-largest bank was
raised to “buy” from “hold” at ING. Its shares declined 1.3
percent to 141 zloty.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA (PGN)  : The
dominant Polish gas company held unsuccessful negotiations last
week with OAO Gazprom about lowering gas import prices,  Gazeta
Wyborcza  reported, without citing anyone. Its shares dropped 0.8
percent to 3.92 zloty.  Unipetrol AS (UNIP)  : The largest Czech oil company’s
Paramo unit is considering ending oil refining operations at its
Pardubice plant, Mlada Fronta Dnes reported, citing Paramo chief
executive officer Milan Kuncir. Unipetrol slipped 0.1 percent to
172.7 koruna.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  