-- 
Hedge Fund 3 Degrees Asked to Close by Singapore Regulators on Asset Claim

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-10-19T03:31:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/hedge-fund-3-degrees-asked-to-close-by-singapore-regulators-on-asset-claim.html
3 Degrees Asset Management, a hedge
fund which helps manage $215 million, was asked by  Singapore ’s
central bank to shutter its operations following allegations
that founder Moe Ibrahim diverted assets.  3 Degrees is trying to overturn a decision by the Monetary
Authority of Singapore and the finance minister to withdraw its
 exempt fund manager status  effective Nov. 9 and ask it to wind
down, according to a lawsuit filed with the Singapore High Court
this month. A closed hearing is scheduled for Oct. 20.  The MAS probed the Singapore-based manager after one of its
funds sued Indonesian-born Agus Anwar in 2008 to recover at
least $40 million in debt. Anwar then claimed that Ibrahim
diverted $6.7 million from the fund to 3 Degrees, which is
wholly owned by Ibrahim. 3 Degrees, which focuses on distressed
debt, denied the allegations in its lawsuit.  Even if there was such a transaction, it was neither
“illegal or improper,” 3 Degrees said in its court filings.
The hedge fund manager said a fine would have been an
appropriate punishment.  Ibrahim declined to comment on the lawsuit or the status of
3 Degrees on Oct. 17. The fund has also asked the court to
prevent the announcement of the regulator’s decision, according
to the lawsuit.  Rising Stars  Ibrahim was named one of the 20 Rising Stars of  Hedge Funds 
by trade publication Institutional Investor in 2007.  “It is inappropriate for MAS to comment on this matter at
this point in time,” the Monetary Authority said in an e-mail
yesterday.  The capital markets regulator decided that 3 Degrees and
Ibrahim weren’t fit and proper persons to be in the regulated
activity of  fund management , according to the hedge fund’s
lawsuit. The finance minister affirmed the decision to withdraw
the fund’s exempt status.  Hedge funds have come under increased scrutiny after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, while
volatile trading conditions have made it harder for them to
raise capital. Assets managed by  Asian hedge funds  fell 23
percent to $135 billion in August from a peak of $176 billion in
2007, according to Singapore-based Eurekahedge Pte.  Attempts by Bloomberg News to reach Anwar weren’t
successful.  Exempt Status  Fund managers with fewer than 30 qualified investors are
exempted from licensing and business conduct requirements under
Singapore’s Securities and Futures Act.  3 Degrees  has stopped
accepting new clients, according to the lawsuit.  Allowing the withdrawal of 3 Degrees’ exempt status would
leave the fund with no bargaining power to liquidate assets and
would “create a bad precedent for the future,” it said in
court papers.  3 Degrees called the decision “draconian” and said it was
based on “illogical, irrational and unreasonable” statements
and assumptions, according to its lawsuit.  “Other hedge fund managers would face the same risk and
may become over-cautious for fear of having their own exemptions
withdrawn,” Ibrahim said in the filings.  “The authority would appear to be sending out a signal
that all it takes are strong allegations from a desperate, debt-
ridden party without conclusive evidence to corroborate these
allegations or a disgruntled employee for a withdrawal of an
exemption or license to occur,” he said.  The case is 3 Degrees Asset Management Pte v Attorney
General and Monetary Authority of Singapore OS874/2011 in the
Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  