-- 
Russia Urges Ukraine to Join Customs Union After EU Snub

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-10-18T15:17:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/medvedev-says-russia-ukraine-ties-aren-t-just-about-gas-1-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
reiterated calls for Ukraine to join a regional customs union
after the European Union postponed a meeting with Ukrainian
leader  Viktor Yanukovych  to discuss closer ties.  Ukraine shouldn’t underestimate the potential of the union
of Russia, Belarus and  Kazakhstan , particularly during recent
global financial instability, Medvedev said today.  “We must do everything so that our cooperation doesn’t
weaken but gets stronger,’’ he told an economic forum in
Donetsk, in eastern Ukraine. “Today’s reality is that not only
states but also so-called cross-border and regional associations
are becoming influential economic players.’’  Russia has said Ukraine’s entry into the union may help its
request for cheaper natural-gas prices from its neighbor. While
Yanukovych has sought to bolster ties with  Europe , last week’s
jailing of former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  for abuse of
office sparked criticism from EU officials, who deem her
conviction politically motivated.  Ukraine is discussing cooperation with the customs union,
which meets tomorrow in  St. Petersburg , and is monitoring its
development, Yanukovych told the same forum.  “The global economic crisis makes many countries seek
various ways of protecting themselves by using existing
opportunities,” he said. “We will always do everything in our
national interests.’’  Brussels Meeting Delayed  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in a statement today
that a planned Oct. 20 meeting with Yanukovych in Brussels to
discuss a free-trade agreement “has been postponed to a later
date when the conditions will be more conducive to making
progress on the bilateral relations.”  Closer ties with the EU “will depend on how progress is
achieved in the near future,” the Ukrainian leader told a news
conference in Donetsk later.  Russia  has also been irked by the imprisonment of
Tymoshenko, now in opposition, who was convicted for
overstepping her authority as premier in signing a 2009 gas-
supply contract with Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin . The
Foreign Ministry said the verdict had an “anti-Russian
flavor.”  Cheaper Gas  Ukraine wants to reduce the price it pays Russia for gas to
unlock the next tranche of a $15.6 billion  International
Monetary Fund  bailout without having to increase household
energy prices. It may reach a new agreement with Russia soon,
Yanukovych said today.  “I would like to believe that in the very near future we
will dot all the i’s,” Yanukovych told a news conference in
Donetsk, without elaborating. “We have paid, and will pay, for
gas in a stable way.”  Ukraine wants to cut its gas imports to 27 billion cubic
meters next year from an estimated 40 billion in 2011, lowering
the price to $230 per cubic meter from next year’s expected
average level of $415. Russia has rejected the demands, arguing
that the terms of the 2009 agreement must be honored.  Both parties should fulfill their agreements “until they
are terminated by some new accord,” Medvedev told the same news
conference today. The two nations’ state energy companies  OAO
Gazprom  and Natfogaz should find ways for mutually beneficial
cooperation, he added.  Medvedev said relations with Ukraine are about more than
just the price of natural gas, calling for closer cooperation
between industries the two nations inherited from the  Soviet
Union . Trade between Russia and Ukraine will reach a record $50
billion this year, according to Yanukovych.  Bilateral ties “shouldn’t just boil down to which price to
pay for gas,” Medvedev said. “There are other values.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  