-- 
Egypt Credit Rating Cut to BB- by S&P on Deficit, Risks

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-10-18T20:22:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/egypt-credit-rating-cut-to-bb-by-s-p-on-deficit-risks-1-.html
Egypt’s rating was cut one level by
 Standard & Poor’s  on concern that a new government may fail to
contain growing budget deficits and stem declines in
international reserves.  The most-populous Arab nation’s long-term foreign-currency
sovereign credit rating was cut to BB- from BB and its long-term
local-currency rating was cut to BB- from BB+, New York-based
S&P said in a statement today. Short-term ratings of B for both
foreign- and local-currency debt were affirmed. S&P is
maintaining a negative outlook on the rating.  Violence has flared several times since military rulers
took over power from former President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.
The unrest of the past eight months has hurt the economy, with
gross domestic product growing 0.4 percent in the quarter
through June after contracting 4.2 percent in the first three
months of the year.  “The political instability that arose from the uprising
started to manifest itself,”  Michael Roche , an emerging-market
strategist at MF Global, said in a telephone interview from  New
York . “The credit metrics of the sovereign have deteriorated
when compared with the levels during the Mubarak regime.”  A further cut in the below-investment grade rating is
possible if the political transition toward a more pluralistic
society doesn’t proceed as smoothly as expected, making it more
difficult to finance the government’s borrowing requirements or
the country’s external needs, S&P said.  Default Risk  The cost of protecting Egyptian government debt against
default for five years rose 8 basis points to 448, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Swaps reached a two-year high on Sept. 26 of 506.  The nation’s government borrowing costs have risen to the
highest level in almost three years, with the yield on one-year
treasury bills soaring 344 basis points since the start of the
revolution to 13.88 percent last month. The rate was at 13.72
percent at an auction Oct. 13.  The yield on  Egypt ’s 5.75 percent 10-year dollar bond due
2020 has climbed 48 basis points to 5.84 percent from its post-
revolution low on Sept. 21.  The Egyptian pound has lost 2.8 percent against the dollar
this year to 5.9735 today.  The central bank’s foreign currency reserves have shrunk by
a third in 2011 to $24 billion. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards for the pound are at 6.68 per dollar, reflecting an
expectation for the currency to weaken about 11 percent over the
life of the contracts.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  