-- 
El Paso’s ‘Juicy’ U.S. Shale Gas Assets May Attract Reliance, Occidental

-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-10-18T04:41:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/el-paso-s-juicy-u-s-shale-gas-assets-may-attract-reliance-occidental.html
India’s  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,
Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  may be among
bidders for  El Paso Corp. (EP) ’s oil and natural-gas unit as the
companies seek to expand their stakes in U.S. shale fields.  Kinder Morgan Inc. is seeking a buyer for El Paso’s
exploration business to help pay off debt from this week’s $21.1
billion takeover of the rival pipeline company, which creates
the biggest gas pipeline network in the U.S.  The assets for sale, which include more than half a million
acres of shale fields, may command a $7.3 billion price tag,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Deep-pocketed bidders
from outside the U.S. are among the likely bidders, Dan Morrison,
senior energy specialist at Global Hunter Securities LLC in  Fort
Worth , Texas, said in an interview yesterday.  “This will put out one of the juiciest acquisition targets
we’ve seen on the market for a long time,” Morrison said. “The
foreign buyers can certainly pay a premium because they need the
operating entity in addition to the assets.”  Reliance, which reported cash of 614.9 billion rupees
($12.6 billion) this month, formed a joint venture with Atlas
Energy Inc. and bid this year to buy the company before it was
sold to Chevron. Statoil has formed joint ventures with
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  to develop natural gas fields in
Pennsylvania, and yesterday agreed to pay $4.4 billion in cash
for Austin, Texas-based  Brigham Exploration Co. (BEXP)   Reliance, Cnooc  Making a large energy purchase may be the best use of
Mumbai-based Reliance’s cash, according to Kamlesh Kotak, vice
president of research at Asian Markets Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.
“As a policy we don’t comment on speculation,”  Manoj Warrier ,
a spokesman for Reliance, said by telephone from Mumbai today.  A spokesman for Statoil didn’t immediately respond to a
telephone call and an e-mail seeking comment.  Among Chinese companies, state-controlled Cnooc Ltd. would
be the most likely bidder because it already holds stakes in
Texas shale-gas assets,  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based senior
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said by telephone today.
The El Paso assets “are reasonably priced” and “well within”
Cnooc’s financing capabilities, he said.  Jiang Yongzhi, Cnooc’s Beijing-based spokesman, didn’t
answer three calls to his office and mobile phones.  Sanford C. Bernstein and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. have
predicted a surge of oil and gas takeovers after global energy
shares fell 21 percent in the third quarter, the worst three
months since 2008. Crude in  New York  has declined 5.3 percent
this year amid concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis and a U.S.
economic slowdown will drag the world back into recession.  Evercore, Barclays  Kinder Morgan Chief Executive Officer  Richard Kinder  plans
to have a buyer lined up for the exploration unit by the time
the company closes the El Paso purchase in the second quarter of
2012, he said in a conference call.  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  already have begun marketing the unit to potential
buyers, a person with knowledge of the talks said.  El Paso is among companies that have expanded operations
into shale fields that were too expensive to develop until about
10 years ago. Producers are using a combination of horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing to crack rock and release the
oil and gas. In the past decade, U.S. gas output jumped 11
percent, outpacing a 3.2 percent rise in consumption during the
same period.  Shale Assets  El Paso owned drilling rights to 46,000 acres in
Louisiana’s Haynesville Shale at the end of 2010, according to a
regulatory filing, and 500,000 acres in the Eagle Ford Shale,
Permian Basin and other fields in  Texas . It also has 605,000
acres in the Raton Basin coal-bed methane field in  New Mexico 
and Colorado.  The sale of the exploration unit is important since Kinder
needs the proceeds to pay down debt that will more than
quadruple with the deal, Darren Horowitz, an analyst at Raymond
James & Associates Inc. in Houston, said.  Kinder Morgan’s stand-alone debt will increase to $14.5
billion from $3.2 billion after the acquisition, according to a
Oct. 16 report from CreditSights Inc. Fitch Ratings Ltd. put
Kinder Morgan Kansas Inc., which holds Kinder Morgan’s debt, on
a negative ratings watch yesterday, saying the company was
depending on the sale of the exploration unit to lower its
leverage ratio.  Apache, Hess  Apache Corp. (APA) ,  Hess Corp. (HES)  and Los Angeles-based Occidental
Petroleum may have an interest in El Paso’s assets because those
companies are seeking additional opportunities in shale fields,
Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in St. Louis, said
in an interview yesterday. Occidental is the biggest oil
producer in Texas.  “All those companies have significant shale interests
already, but this would allow them to buy some shale properties
that are already producing rather than having to buy leaseholds
and develop them themselves,” Jones said.  Apache doesn’t comment on merger and acquisition activity,
said Bill Mintz, a spokesman for the Houston-based company. Hess
didn’t respond immediately to a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment. Melissa Schoeb, a spokeswoman for Occidental, didn’t
immediately respond to a call seeking comment.  El Paso’s production unit had 2010 earnings of $1.1 billion
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, said
Bruce Connery, a spokesman for El Paso. That would give it a
value of about $7.3 billion if it fetches the median multiple of
6.6 times Ebitda for 34 takeovers of U.S. exploration and
production companies in the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Market Valuation  The unit might reap as much as $9 billion if it sells
quickly, said Duane Grubert, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial
Group in Stamford, Connecticut. Companies such as Petrohawk
Energy and Brigham Exploration have been sold for 16 and 21
times their Ebitda.  Kinder declined to name an asking price for the unit on the
conference call.  The total value of the acquisition, including debt assumed
from Houston-based El Paso, is $37.8 billion,  Kinder Morgan  said
in a document prepared for investors. The takeover values El
Paso at about 14 times the last 12 months’ earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $2.67 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  Kinder Morgan rose 4.8 percent to $28.19 at the close in
New York. El Paso climbed 25 percent, the biggest gain in nine
years, to $24.81.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  