-- 
Elan ‘Just Starting’ May Reward Investors After 10-Year Drop

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-10-19T08:26:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/elan-at-starting-point-may-reward-investors-after-stock-s-10-year-plunge.html
After more than 40 years in
business, Elan Corp. is “just starting,” says Chief Executive
Officer Kelly Martin. The Irish drugmaker may prove more
rewarding for investors in its second life than in the first.  Elan, which posted losses every year and a 78 percent stock
drop over the past decade, is on the brink of profitability as
sales soar for its only marketed product, the multiple sclerosis
treatment Tysabri. Its American depositary receipts have risen
90 percent this year, the most of any European drugmaker with a
market value of 500 million euros ($688 million) or more,
Bloomberg data show.  Elan also has the right to a share of any profit from the
experimental Alzheimer’s disease drug bapineuzumab, which has
the potential to be one of the world’s best-selling medicines,
said  Corey Davis , a Jefferies & Co. analyst in  New York . Martin,
a former Merrill Lynch & Co. banker, is poised to leave the
Dublin-based company next year after eliminating more than 4,500
jobs and focusing on  drug development  for three diseases.  “You can buy Elan stock right now and still grab the
upside of Tysabri, with bapineuzumab being the lottery ticket,”
Davis said in a telephone interview.  Elan’s ADRs rose 0.6 percent yesterday to $10.80, giving
the company a market value of $6.4 billion. The ADRs may soar in
the next year to $20, says Davis, who recommends buying the
shares and has the highest price forecast among analysts. Net
income this year may total $155.2 million, analysts predict,
based on the average of four estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Cutting to Survive  The Ireland-traded shares fell 3.9 percent to 7.78 euros at
9:20 a.m. Dublin time.  Martin, hired in 2003 to turn Elan around after an
accounting scandal led to the ouster of his predecessor,
whittled the company from 5,000 employees to 450 and from 37
locations to three and sold control of bapineuzumab. He cut debt
to $800 million from more than $4 billion. Last month Elan sold
its drug-technologies unit, which aims to improve the way
medicines are delivered, to Alkermes Plc for $960 million to cut
debt and focus on developing pharmaceuticals.  Martin, 52, plans to step down next year, leaving behind a
company focused on developing drugs for Alzheimer’s, multiple
sclerosis and  Parkinson’s disease . The cutting had to be done or
Elan wouldn’t have survived, he said in an interview.  “The Alkermes transaction was the last piece in getting
the company to where it should be structurally as a business,”
Martin said in an interview. “As strange as it may seem, we’re
now at the starting line of what the cycle should be, it’s just
taken us a long time to get here. I would say the company is
just starting.”  Tysabri Sales  Elan’s Tysabri sales jumped 18 percent in 2010 to $851.5
million, and will reach $1.1 billion this year, based on the
average estimate of five analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The
Irish company splits sales of the treatment with marketing
partner  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  Analysts predict further increases
after the companies developed a test that shows which patients
may be susceptible to a potentially fatal brain infection while
taking Tysabri. The drug had been pulled from the market in 2005
because of the infection.  Elan’s next prospect is bapineuzumab, which was co-
developed by Wyeth, now owned by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  Elan sold the drug
along with its Alzheimer’s immunotherapy portfolio to  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  in 2009.  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J expects
results from late-stage clinical trials in the middle of next
year.  Investor Expectations  If approved, it would be the first new Alzheimer’s medicine
since 2004 and may reach annual sales in the billions of
dollars, said Davis, who described Elan as “a good mix of high
science and high drama” when introducing Martin at a conference
in June. Most analysts aren’t including bapineuzumab in their
forecasts.  Tysabri sales will help fund research and development on
other compounds, said Davis. Elan is conducting early-stage
trials on a follow-up to Tysabri, ELND002, to which it retains
full rights. Management will have to balance spending on
research with investors’ expectations of profitability, he said.  Martin aims to sign further partnerships similar to one
with Proteostasis Therapeutics Inc. announced in May. Elan paid
$20 million as part of a collaboration to develop drugs for
Parkinson’s disease,  Huntington’s disease , multiple sclerosis
and other illnesses. Elan doesn’t aspire to build manufacturing
plants or even recruit its own sales team. It wants to be an
“infrastructure-light company,” Martin said.  ‘Good Science’  Even one of Elan’s biggest critics has softened a bit. Ib
Sonderby, a Danish investor who criticized management, took down
his “Save Elan” website after the annual shareholder meeting
in May. While he still opposes some long-serving board members
who were re-elected at the meeting, the sale of EDT is positive
and the Tysabri franchise can be expanded, Sonderby said in a
telephone interview.  “The prospects for the company are bright,” he said.
“They really have good science and good products.”  Robert Ingram, the former GlaxoSmithKline Plc executive who
was named chairman in January, is in the process of finding
Martin’s replacement. Elan announced last year that the CEO
would step down in 2012 after having “completed his commitment
to the company.”  “To Kelly’s credit, what he’s done is basically rescue the
company during that time of financial crisis and bring it all
the way to this starting point,” Ingram said in an interview.  Elan’s ‘Journey’  The stock’s advance has partly been driven by speculation
that Elan would be bought, possibly by partner J&J, which took
an 18.4 percent stake in the company in 2009 when it acquired
the Alzheimer’s portfolio. “If bapineuzumab does work, I can’t
see how J&J wouldn’t buy Elan,” Davis said.  Ingram has experience with takeovers. He was chairman of
OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. in May 2010 when it agreed to be sold
to Astellas Pharma Inc.  “If at some point in the journey somebody makes us an
offer we shouldn’t refuse, we won’t,” Ingram said. “But it’s
not our strategy to become an acquired company.”  A takeover may be thorny because Elan’s deal with Biogen
states that if either company is acquired, the other has the
option to buy its rights to Tysabri. J&J also has the right to
buy out Elan’s share of the Alzheimer’s venture if the Irish
company is acquired. J&J isn’t allowed to buy more shares in
Elan until 2014 as part of the agreement.  Not everyone’s convinced the stock will keep rising.
Tysabri, an injected drug that may account for the majority of
Elan’s sales this year, faces a challenge from Novartis AG’s
Gilenya, the first oral treatment for multiple sclerosis. Biogen
is developing another potential competitor, BG-12.  Increasing Competition  “We remain cautious on future sales of Tysabri given
increasing competition in the MS market,” Vincent Meunier of
Exane BNP Paribas wrote in a July 28 report. He sees the stock
dropping 36 percent in the next year.  For Martin, Elan turned out to be a longer project than he
expected. When he joined in 2003, he thought it would take him
three years to turn the company around, he said.  “It takes a long time to pay off $4 billion,” Martin said
in the interview at Elan’s headquarters. “It doesn’t fall out
of the sky in bags.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  