-- 
Telefonica Said to Sell Its First Euro Bonds Since January

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-18T15:06:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/telefonica-said-to-sell-its-first-euro-bonds-since-january-1-.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Europe’s second-
largest phone company, raised 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion)
from its first benchmark-sized bond in the currency since
January, according to a banker with knowledge of the deal.  The notes due February 2016 were priced to yield 310 basis
points more than the benchmark swap rate, said the banker, who
declined to be identified because the details are private. That
compares with a spread of 286 basis points, or 2.86 percentage
points, on Telefonica’s 4.375 percent notes due 2016, according
to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Madrid-based Telefonica offered the premium as yields on
Spanish 10-year  government bonds  rose for a sixth day amid
concern European leaders will struggle to resolve the region’s
debt crisis. Telefonica’s bonds may benefit from its expansion
outside Europe to  Latin America , where revenue made up almost
half the company’s total income for the second-quarter.  “I’m expecting a relatively good performance on this deal
despite weak news on the sovereign front this morning,” said
Christophe Herpet, a Paris-based  fund manager  at AXA Investment
Managers, which oversees about $735 billion of assets.
“Telefonica benefits from a diversified business profile thanks
to its exposure to the Latin American region.”  Telefonica’s sale was its first in euros since Jan. 24 when
it raised 1.3 billion euros from bonds due 2017. The phone
company’s deal followed offerings from Spanish and Italian
companies including Telecom Italia SpA, Iberdrola SA and Enel
SpA in the past week.  Banca IMI SpA, Deutsche Bank AG, Societe Generale SA and
UBS AG managed Telefonica’s bond sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  