-- 
Telkom South Africa Stake Sale to South Korea’s KT Corp. Supported by PIC

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-10-18T15:16:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/telkom-south-africa-stake-sale-to-korea-s-kt-gets-support-of-investor-pic.html
Telkom South  Africa  Ltd.’s proposed
sale of a 20 percent stake to  KT Corp. (030200)  won the backing of Public
Investment Corp., the state-owned  money manager  that’s the phone
company’s second-biggest shareholder.  KT “is an accomplished player in the industry and
therefore such a tie-up could have positive benefits for
Telkom,” Maqhawe Dlamini, general manager of listed equities
for the Pretoria-based PIC, said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Telkom, Africa’s largest fixed-line phone company, said on
Oct. 14 that it will sell new shares to Seongnam, South Korea-
based KT, the Asian country’s biggest phone and Internet
company, at 36.06 rand a share. The PIC, which manages about
1 trillion rand ($124 billion) in government-employee pensions,
owns 11.1 percent of Pretoria-based Telkom, Dlamini said.  “The potential dilution is not a concern for the PIC as
the new shareholder does have the necessary experience to change
the game quite substantially for Telkom,” Dlamini said.  The KT proposal represents a 12 percent premium on Telkom’s
stock’s closing price of 32.15 rand a share a day before the
announcement. The Congress of South African Trade Unions, the
country’s largest labor federation, said on Oct. 17 that it
opposes the transaction.  The South African government is Telkom’s biggest investor
with a direct stake of 39.8 percent as of March 31, according to
Bloomberg data. The office of Communications Minister Roy Padayachie, the government’s representative shareholder, said it
couldn’t immediately comment as he is on a visit to  Kenya .  Telkom rose 0.4 percent to 32.16 rand at the close of
Johannesburg trading. That pared the stock’s decline this year
to 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  