-- 
Embattled European Banks Demand Porsche Pay More to Meet Ballooning Costs

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-10-18T10:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/embattled-european-banks-demand-porsche-pay-more-to-meet-ballooning-costs.html
European lenders are charging higher
interest margins to companies including Porsche SE and limiting
dollar loans to bring their own ballooning costs in line with
those they charge borrowers.  Porsche agreed to increase the margin on a new 3.5 billion-
euro ($5 billion) credit line last week to 170 basis points more
than benchmark rates after banks balked at the initial 120 basis
points proposed by the maker of the 911 sports car, two people
with knowledge of the deal said. That followed increases to fees
for drawing on credit lines in recent weeks.  “Banks do need to re-price corporate loans,” Bridget Gandy, managing director and co-head of Fitch Rating’s EMEA
financial institutions group, said in a phone interview. “It is
more expensive for them to borrow than corporates in the  bond
market , so they will have to try and pass their costs on.”  As the biggest buyers of debt sold by euro-region nations,
banks will bear the brunt of losses in a Greek restructuring.
BNP Paribas SA’s ratings were reduced one level to AA- on Oct.
14 by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited funding “dislocations”
and negative  market sentiment . Sovereign spillover is reflected
in banks’ costs on the bond market, near the highest in three
years at 320 basis points more than government debt, according
to Barclays Capital’s Euro Aggregate Banking Senior Index.  Loans Pay Less  That contrasts with the interest margin charged on high-
grade loans which has halved in the past year. Investment-grade
companies paid an average margin of 63 basis points more than
benchmark rates for revolving credit facilities this year
compared with 119 basis points in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche is seeking to pare its
loan costs by replacing the remainder of an 8.5 billion-euro
deal agreed in November 2009 that cost Porsche 400 basis points
more than Euribor, according to Bloomberg data. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest luxury
carmaker, is seeking a 6 billion-euro five-year revolving credit
for five years to replace an $8 billion credit line from 2005.  The Munich-based company would pay 35 basis points more
than the euro interbank offered rate to borrow under the credit
line, and additional utilization fees of 20 basis points to draw
more than one-third of the facility, and 40 basis points for
more than two-thirds, Bloomberg data show.  BMW’s interest margin is less than the 60 basis points
Daimler AG agreed a year ago to draw on a 7 billion-euro credit
line though utilization fees are 30 percent more, Bloomberg data
show.  Porsche spokesman Frank Gaube wasn’t available. BMW
spokesman  Mathias Schmidt  declined to comment.  Dollar Limits  Another sign that banks are growing more resolute in their
attitude toward loan issuers is the dollar limit imposed on a
550 million-euro loan to  Adecco SA. (ADEN)   The world’s largest temporary-staffing company agreed to
lenders’ demand it limit the amount it can draw in dollars to
one-third, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.
Glattbrugg, Switzerland-based Adecco is seeking to refinance a
deal of the same size signed in 2008 that paid 40 basis points
more than Euribor.  Adecco press officials didn’t respond to voice and e-mails
seeking comment.  “Banks are looking for ways to structure deals that
mitigate the dollar-funding issue,” said Michael Duncan,
London-based chairman of Allen & Overy LLP’s global banking
practice.  Punitive Rate  The cost for European banks to swap euros for dollars for
three months is near the most punitive since Dec. 2008, with
lenders receiving interest of 90.5 basis points less than
benchmark rates on the exchange, Bloomberg data show.  “We have seen a deal that put a cap on the amount of a
facility that can be utilized in dollars,” Duncan said. “We’ve
also seen requests that loans drawn down in dollars will incur a
higher margin, as well as the option for banks with problems to
fund in euros” rather than the U.S. currency.  Fitch placed the ratings of BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole
CIB and Banque Federative du Credit Mutuel on watch for
downgrade last week, citing their holdings of periphery euro-
region nations’ sovereign debt and tightening dollar liquidity.  “Declining access to short-term U.S. dollar funding has to
date been mitigated by high levels of liquidity in euros,”
Fitch analysts wrote. “A complete drying up of the  interbank
market  would be problematic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in  London  at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 