-- 
Embryonic Stem-Cell Patents Infringe EU Law, Top Court Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-10-18T08:28:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/embryonic-stem-cell-patents-infringe-eu-law-top-court-says.html
Patent protection for stem-cell
research methods that involve cells from human embryos is not
possible under  European Union law , the region’s highest court
said.  Inventions based on the use of human embryonic stem cells
for scientific research purposes can’t be patented, the  European
Court of Justice  in Luxembourg said.  “A process which involves removal of a stem cell from a
human embryo at the blastocyst stage, entailing the destruction
of that embryo, cannot be patented,” said the EU court. The
blastocyst stage is about five days after fertilization.  Under an  EU law  from 1998, research methods that involve
human embryos for industrial or commercial purposes can’t be
patented. A German court handling the dispute at the center of
today’s case  sought  the EU tribunal’s view on how to interpret
this phrase and the term “human embryo.”  The case was triggered when Greenpeace challenged a German
patent awarded to  Oliver Bruestle , a professor and specialist in
stem-cell research.  “This is an unbelievable setback for bio-medical research
in the area of stem cells,” Bruestle said in an interview after
the ruling. The EU court “took an extreme position on
restrictions in this area, which will have huge repercussions
globally, especially in the competition with the U.S. and  Asia ,
and in scientific research.”  Greenpeace, which said it sued for “ethical reasons,”
argued the patent for a stem-cell research process developed by
Bruestle to treat neural diseases is invalid because it covers
cells derived from human embryos. The Federal Court of Justice,
 Germany ’s highest civil court, last year  asked  the EU tribunal
for guidance on the case.  “We wanted a fundamental decision about the protection of
embryos under European  patent law  and we got that clarity
today,” said Christoph Then, a spokesman for Greenpeace.
“Commercial interests have to take a backseat and integrity has
to take over.”  The case is: C-34/10, Prof. Dr. Oliver Bruestle v.
Greenpeace e.V.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  