-- 
EMC Third-Quarter Profit Rises 28% on Storage Demand, VMware

-- B y   X u   W a n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-10-18T21:18:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/emc-third-quarter-earnings-rise-28-on-storage-demand-vmware.html
EMC Corp., the world’s biggest maker
of storage computers, reported a 28 percent gain in third-
quarter earnings as corporate spending on Internet-based
computing drove sales of data products and software from
majority-owned  VMware Inc. (VMW)   Net income rose to $605.6 million, or 27 cents a share,
from $472.5 million, or 22 cents, a year earlier, the Hopkinton,
Massachusetts-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
some items, profit was 37 cents, beating the 36-cent average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  VMware, the biggest maker of programs that let computers
run multiple operating systems, is benefiting as companies
invest in data centers to run software in the so-called cloud,
or stored on the Web instead of their own server computers. The
transfer to the cloud also drove sales at EMC, which said it saw
strong demand for information storage and security services.  “They are in a sweet spot where spending is,” said  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets in  New York  who rates
the shares “outperform.” “There is pent-up demand in the
storage market. And they are as in the front and center in cloud
computing as you can get.”  The shares jumped 5.8 percent to $23.99 at the close in New
York, the biggest gain since April 2009. The stock had declined
1 percent this year through yesterday.  EMC sales rose 18 percent to $4.98 billion, exceeding the
$4.91 billion average estimate. The net income included costs
related to stock-based compensation, restructuring and
acquisitions.  Full-Year Profit  The company also reiterated that full-year profit excluding
some items will exceed $1.48 a share. Analysts on average
estimated $1.48.  “We expect there will be growth in global IT spending next
year but the growth rate is likely to be somewhat lower than we
see this year,” said Joe Tucci, EMC chairman and chief
executive officer, on a conference call today. “Everything we
see, it’s slowing down somewhat, but we do expect positive
growth.”  EMC has seen a slowdown of Internet-technology spending in
European banks and governments, while spending by the public
sector in the U.S. has held up so far, said Tucci. He said the
company saw a “resurgence” in spending by U.S. banks after a
slow first quarter. Financial and government customers make up
more than a quarter of the company’s revenue, according to data
from IDC.  Market Share  “We expect EMC to continue to gain market share, therefore
growing significantly faster than the IT spending average,”
said Tucci, citing the company’s diversified product line and
customers’ continuing investment in cloud computing and storage
products.  Mark Peek, chief financial officer of  Palo Alto ,
California-based VMware, said on a conference call yesterday
that 2012 will be a year of “challenging” revenue because of
the comparison with 2011 and slower growth in information-
technology spending.  VMware reported yesterday that third-quarter net income
more than doubled to $177.5 million from $84.6 million. Sales
rose 32 percent to $941.9 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Xu Wang in New York at 
 xwang206@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  