-- 
Emerging Stocks Snap Nine-Day Rally

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-10-18T21:59:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/emerging-stocks-snap-nine-day-rally-on-europe-debt-china-gdp.html
Emerging stocks fell, ending the
longest winning streak since June 2010, after Moody’s Investors
Service said  France ’s top credit rating is under pressure and
 China’s economy  expanded at the slowest pace in two years.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 1.7 percent to 925.13
at the close of trading, following a nine-day, 13 percent surge.
The Hang Seng China Enterprise Index of Chinese companies listed
in  Hong Kong  sank 5.2 percent.  India ’s Sensex Index slid 1.6
percent and benchmark gauges fell in  South Africa  and  Hungary .
Stocks in Brazil and  Mexico  surged, helping pare the MSCI
gauge’s earlier 2.7 percent drop.  Moody’s Investors Service cut  Spain ’s government bond
ratings by two levels to A1 with a negative outlook after
trading closed. It said yesterday France’s AAA credit rating is
under threat from worsening debt metrics and the potential for
additional liabilities from  Europe ’s crisis.  China ’s economy,
the world’s second largest, grew by a lower-than-estimated 9.1
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier.  “Confidence in the ability of European policy makers to
manage through the crisis successfully is pretty much at rock
bottom,” Timothy Ash, the head of emerging-market research at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London, said in an e-mailed
report. “The risk rally seems to have fizzled out for the time
being, raising questions whether the past week has seen nothing
more than a short squeeze than a more substantive change in
 market sentiment .”  European Bailout  The Guardian newspaper reported that France and  Germany 
have reached an agreement to boost the European rescue fund to 2
trillion euros. A person with direct knowledge of the talks,
however, said France and Germany have yet to agree on how to
bolster the European bailout fund as they seek to overcome
technical hurdles and to complete a plan to stem the debt
crisis.  China’s gross domestic product gain was less than the
median estimate of 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 22
economists and follows a 9.5 percent increase in the previous
three months. Growth slowed as China’s central bank tightened
its monetary policies to keep inflation in check.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s
biggest lender by market value, tumbled 6.1 percent in Hong
Kong. The Shanghai Composite Index fell 2.3 percent, the most in
almost a month.  Oil refiner Mol Nyrt. dropped 2.3 percent in Hungary while
OTP Bank Nyrt, the nation’s largest second-largest lender, fell
for a second day, sending the BUX Index down 0.4 percent.  Bovespa Rises  The Bovespa Index increased 2.1 percent to a one-month high
as speculation mounted that policy makers will cut the nation’s
interest rate tomorrow, boosting prices for companies that
depend on domestic demand. Homebuilder MRV Engenharia &
Participacoes SA advanced 4 percent.  The Brazilian real led gains among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, strengthening 1.1 percent
versus the dollar. Mexico’s peso rose 0.8 percent and the rand
appreciated 0.4 percent. The ruble weakened 0.8 percent versus
the dollar.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index and  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  each
retreated 1.4 percent. The  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  fell 2.9
percent.  India’s Tata Consultancy Ltd. plunged 7.7 percent, the most
since May 2009, after it reported second-quarter profit that
missed analyst forecasts.  HTC Corp. (2498)  dropped 4.7 percent in Taipei, the most in three
weeks, after losing a ruling on patent claims against Apple Inc.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  retreated three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 408, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps declined one basis
point to 304, according to data provider CMA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;  Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  