-- 
Energy Networks to Get European Regulatory Push, Draft Shows

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-10-18T14:38:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/energy-networks-to-get-european-regulatory-push-draft-legislation-shows.html
European Union regulators will
propose rules tomorrow to spur the development of natural-gas
and electricity grids and promote renewable energy as the bloc
seeks a more deeply integrated market and cleaner growth.  The legislation to be put forward by the European
Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm in Brussels, would enable
key projects to tap a fund valued at 40 billion euros ($54.7
billion), including 9.1 billion euros for energy, according to
draft documents obtained by Bloomberg News. An accompanying
initiative would enable developers to raise money by selling
debt backed by the EU, so-called project bonds.  “Major efforts are needed to modernize and expand  Europe ’s
energy infrastructure and to interconnect networks across
borders to meet the union’s core energy policy objectives,” the
commission said in an explanatory memorandum accompanying the
draft legislation. EU governments and the European Parliament
must back the plan in a process that may take a year or more.  Energy is moving up the EU political agenda after the 27-
nation bloc, which relies on imports for half of its fuel, faced
disruptions since 2006 to gas and oil from  Russia  as a result of
price and transit fee disputes with Ukraine and Belarus, through
which the supplies pass. The EU is also seeking to hasten
development of renewable energy such as wind and solar power to
fight  climate change  blamed mainly on fossil-fuel use.  The EU must invest about 200 billion euros in gas and power
networks as well as carbon-capture and storage technologies to
attain its goals for securing adequate supplies and reducing
greenhouse-gas emissions, according to commission forecasts. The
commission expects at least half of that sum will need to come
from private investors.  ‘Strategic’ Corridors  The proposals due tomorrow follow a commission policy paper
in November 2010 year outlining “strategic” corridors for the
transport of electricity, gas and oil, and a declaration of EU
leaders in February this year to support the use of the future
EU budget to help fund priority energy initiatives.  The draft legislation identifies 12 strategic trans-
European energy networks, including the so-called Southern
Corridor to deliver gas from the  Caspian Sea . It also sets rules
to streamline national permit-granting procedures for parts of
the work linked to these broader networks. These parts are
called projects of common interest.  Caspian Gas Pipelines  Planned pipelines that would bring Caspian gas to Europe
include Nabucco, a joint venture of  Germany ’s  RWE AG (RWE) , Vienna-
based  OMV AG (OMV) , Budapest-based Mol Nyrt., Bulgargaz EAD,  Romania ’s
Transgaz SA and Turkish state pipeline company Boru Hatlari ile
Petrol Tasima AS, or Botas.  Nabucco is vying with smaller projects such as the
Interconnector Turkey-Greece-Italy, or ITGI, led by  Edison SpA (EDN) 
and Depa SA, as well as Trans Adriatic Pipeline AG, or TAP, led
by Statoil ASA and Elektrizitaets-Gesellschaft Laufenburg AG.  The commission is obliged to announce a first list of the
common-interest projects by July 31, 2013. They will be eligible
for “market-based and direct EU financial support,” according
to the draft legislation.  The commission in October 2010 floated the idea of project
bonds that developers could use to attract capital for strategic
initiatives that fail to draw adequate private investment.  European energy and transportation projects may raise 1.5
billion euros a year initially, rising to as much as 20 billion
annually by 2020, by selling bonds under a program planned by
the EU and the  European Investment Bank , the commission said in
April. Details of how such a system would work will be outlined
tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 