-- 
EPA to Clarify U.S. Rules on Recycled Materials for Boilers

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-10-18T17:42:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/epa-to-clarify-u-s-rules-on-recycled-materials-for-boilers.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency will rule that wood debris, cellulosic biofuels and other
biomass products are exempt from rules on use of recycled
materials as fuel in boilers, Administrator Lisa Jackson said.  Groups led by the American Forest & Paper Association said
an EPA proposal issued in March would force companies to burn
oil, coal or gas instead of natural materials in their boilers
or incinerators.  Jackson wrote to Senator  Olympia Snowe , a Maine Republican,
on Oct. 14, saying the agency will issue a “clarification” on
biomass as a fuel in boilers and heating units. Snowe and 10
Democrats had complained about the March proposal.  “I appreciate that EPA has agreed to our request to revise
the devastating” regulation, Snowe said in a statement. Without
the exemption, the rule would “have negated millions of dollars
in alternative energy investments, particularly in our paper
mills,” she said.  The letter is the second within a week in which Jackson has
tried to assuage lawmakers about criticisms they have raised on
EPA regulations. She said in a letter to Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat, on Oct. 14 that the agency
wouldn’t issue updated rules controlling farm dust.  EPA regulations have been under fire in Congress, where
Republicans blame the agency for hampering the economy,
introducing uncertainty into business and costing jobs. The
House passed a measure last week to delay the entire set of
pollution rules on industrial boilers.  Jackson’s letter to Snowe deals with one aspect of that
issue: the use of recycled materials as a fuel source. Jackson
said the EPA would revise its regulation “to avoid
disincentives for burning clean materials, such as biomass, for
fuel.”  In addition to exempting certain materials, the EPA will
give companies a process to petition so that a fuel source is
not considered solid waste.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  