-- 
Tepco to Ask Government for $9.1 Billion for Fukushima Payout, Nikkei Says

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-10-18T04:55:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/tepco-to-ask-for-9-1-billion-for-fukushima-payouts-nikkei-says.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. will ask
the government for 700 billion yen ($9.1 billion) to avoid
insolvency as it compensates those affected by the Fukushima
disaster, the Nikkei newspaper reported.  The aid will be the first disbursement from the Nuclear
Damage Liability Facilitation Fund that was set up last month,
the Nikkei  said , without saying how it got the information. The
utility known as Tepco is expected to avert falling into
negative net worth with the support, the Nikkei said.  Tepco and the fund are drafting a plan for release next
month that will include an estimate of damage payments and
restructuring steps to be taken by the utility. The measures
will pave the way for the government to beef up Tepco’s finances
as the utility may have to pay 4.5 trillion yen in compensation
by March 2013, according to an estimate by a government panel.  Tepco hasn’t decided how much aid the utility will seek
from the compensation body, spokesman Masato Yamaguchi said by
phone today. The company hasn’t set a date to announce the
details of the plan, he said.  The utility hasn’t submitted a request for support, Soichi
Yamamoto, an official at the Nuclear Damage Liability
Facilitation Fund said today. He declined to comment on the
Nikkei report.  Fleeing Radiation  Tokyo Electric’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant has been
leaking radiation since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
knocked out cooling systems causing three meltdowns. The reactor
meltdowns forced 160,000 people to flee radiation
and damaged fishing, farming and forestry businesses.  The government is trying to avert the bankruptcy of a
company that supplies power to 29 million customers in the
political and economic heart of  Japan .  Tepco may face 8.6 trillion yen in funding shortages during
the next decade if none of its nuclear  power plants  come back
online and electricity prices aren’t increased, the government
panel said earlier this month after reviewing the company’s
finances.  The company aims to restart its Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear
station by the end of March 2013 while delaying increasing
electricity prices, the Yomiuri newspaper  reported  today,
without citing anyone.  Of the seven reactors at Kashiwazaki Kariwa in Niigata
prefecture, northwest of Tokyo, two are idled for regular
maintenance and three have been shut since an earthquake in
2007. The other two reactors will be shut by the end of March
for maintenance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  