-- 
Tepco Submits Plan for Keeping Fukushima Plant Stable

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-10-18T06:32:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/tepco-submits-three-year-plan-for-keeping-fukushima-plant-stable.html
(Corrects to say thousands of metric tons in last
paragraph of story first published on Oct. 18.)  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  submitted a
blueprint to regulators laying out steps to keep the wrecked
Fukushima nuclear plant stable for three years, a condition for
declaring the immediate crisis is over.  The plan was filed late yesterday to Japan’s Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency, the company knowns as Tepco said in a
statement. The Facility Management Plan outlines how Tepco will
maintain stable cooling of the reactors and spent-fuel pools of
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, which has six units, four of which
were damaged in the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  “We received the document today and will have a hearing
with experts on the plan in Fukushima on Oct. 22,” Yoshinori Moriyama, deputy director-general at NISA, told reporters
yesterday. “We don’t know when the evaluation of the plan will
be completed.”  Tepco and NISA said yesterday they’re on track to bring the
reactors at the Fukushima station north of  Tokyo  into a state
known as cold shutdown by the end of the year. Once the plant is
stabilized, the government may allow the return of some of the
160,000 people in the area who were forced to flee radiation.  Temperatures of the three reactor vessels holding melted
fuel roads fell to below 100 degrees Celsius (212 Fahrenheit)
early last month, one of the two conditions for achieving cold
shutdown. NISA instructed Tepco to draw up the management plan
on Oct. 3.  Radiation Release  The amount of radiation being released by the plant is
estimated at 100 million becquerels an hour, about 8 million
times less than at the height of the crisis and half the amount
of a month ago, Tepco said yesterday in a monthly review of its
so-called road map for containing the disaster.  That amount of radiation translates into exposure of 0.2
millisieverts a year at the boundary of the Fukushima site,
below the government’s target of 1 millisievert. It excludes
radioactive materials deposited around the country at the height
of the crisis when explosions tore the station apart.  “The target has been met, but the readings are provisional
and we need to ensure the situation has stabilized,” Yasuhiro
Sonoda, the parliamentary secretary of  Japan ’s Cabinet Office,
said at the press conference yesterday.  One millisievert a year is the internationally recommended
maximum for the general public excluding background radiation
and exposure received from x-rays and other medical procedures.  The management plan also covers operations of
decontamination units and  storage tanks  holding thousands of
metric tons of contaminated water.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  