-- 
Merkel Said to Tell Lawmakers EU Summit Won’t Be Final Step in Debt Crisis

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-10-18T17:45:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/merkel-said-to-tell-lawmakers-eu-summit-won-t-be-final-step-in-debt-crisis.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
that a European Union summit in five days will mark an
“important step,” though not the final one in solving the
euro-area sovereign debt crisis.  “These sovereign debts have built up over decades, so they
won’t be ended with one summit,” Merkel told reporters in
Berlin late today. While European officials recognize their
responsibility to stop the crisis, “this will require tough,
long-term work.”  The comments marked the second time in two days that Merkel
sought to lower expectations that the European crisis-fighting
effort would climax at the Oct. 23 meeting in Brussels, as
international officials are advocating.  Earlier today, she told a meeting in Berlin of her
Christian Democratic caucus that officials from the 17-nation
euro area are moving millimeter by millimeter on solving the
crisis, an official who attended the talks told reporters. He
spoke on condition of anonymity because the meeting was private.  “It is far from clear that the summit will deliver a
package that is viewed as broad and deep enough,” David Mackie,
chief European economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) , said in a note
today. “Indeed, comments out of  Germany  appear to be trying to
dampen expectations of what the summit will deliver.”  Merkel, speaking after talks with Uruguayan President Jose Alberto Mujica, said the summit “is an important step, but that
further steps will follow again after that.”  ‘Relevant’ Decisions  “Relevant, important decisions” will be taken at the
gathering, including a “clear commitment” that the prosperity
of many parts of the world depends on Europe solving the debt
crisis, she said.  At her party’s meeting, Merkel said bank recapitalization
will be discussed at the EU summit and permanent surveillance
similar to the so-called troika of the  International Monetary
Fund ,  European Central Bank  and European Commission is
conceivable to oversee countries that tap the euro rescue fund,
the official said.  The euro declined 0.1 percent to $1.3726 at 7:27 p.m. in
 Frankfurt , reversing earlier gains of as much as 0.4 percent.
 France ’s 10-year bond yield climbed to the highest compared with
Germany’s in almost 20 years after Moody’s Investors Service
said the nation’s Aaa credit rating is under pressure due to the
region’s debt crisis.  Investors’ Share  While the contribution by investors to  Greece ’s next
bailout “will need to be higher” than the 21 percent reduction
in net present value proposed in July, German banks’
recapitalization needs are “manageable,” said  Volker Kauder ,
the floor leader of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union .  “A recapitalization of banks has to be achieved in order
to be prepared for all eventualities, so that there are no
problems,” Kauder told reporters. “We know from preliminary
information that this will be within a range that is no problem
for those German banks that might be affected. We can be very
calm and relaxed.”  Merkel’s spokesmen Steffen Seibert said yesterday that EU
leaders won’t provide the complete fix that global policy makers
pushed for at a Group of 20 gathering three days ago.  Merkel has made it clear that “dreams that are taking hold
again now that with this package everything will be solved and
everything will be over on Monday won’t be able to be
fulfilled,” Seibert told reporters in Berlin. The search for an
end to the crisis “surely extends well into next year.”  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of  Europe ’s emerging
crisis plan. They set the Oct. 23 meeting of European leaders as
the deadline.  “Quite frankly, Europe’s response over the past year has
been disappointing,” Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
said in a speech yesterday in Dublin. “This is the world’s most
immediate and pressing problem,” Flaherty said, according to a
prepared copy of the speech, and “is threatening to bring the
world to the verge of another recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  