-- 
Erste’s Treichl Probed by FMA on Swap Accounting, Guidance

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-10-18T14:10:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/erste-probed-by-fma-on-cds-accounting-profit-warning-fma-says.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and its chief
executive officer Andreas Treichl are being probed by  Austria ’s
financial supervisor over derivatives accounting and because the
bank said it will make a loss less than two weeks after Treichl
publicly forecast a profit.  The national supervisor is examining if the lender broke
Austria’s banking law in the past by accounting for credit
default Swaps off-balance sheet and at purchase prices, Klaus Grubelnik, spokesman of the Finanzmarktaufsicht authority, or
FMA, said in a telephone interview.  The other probe concerns suspicions that Treichl
manipulated markets when he said he expected a profit in an
 interview with Reuters on Sept. 29 , Grubelnik said. Erste on
Oct. 10 signaled it would report a loss this year.  Erste spokesman Michael Mauritz said the bank had received
questions from the FMA on the CDS accounting, adding he couldn’t
confirm the other probe. Erste has said the CDS accounting was
consistent with accounting rules in the past and a recent change
followed new guidance from the  International Accounting
Standards Board .  The probes were first reported in Austrian magazine Format.
The FMA is a government-appointed watchdog that supervises
markets and banks together with the central bank.  Analyst Criticism  The FMA’s investigation adds to analyst and investor
criticism for Erste’s Oct. 10 warning, of which Treichl said a
day later: “It was painful -- but I feel a lot better today.”  Erste, Austria’s biggest lender, should have marked its CDS
to market prices “years earlier,” JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts led by Paul Formanko said in a note yesterday, cutting
their recommendation on the bank to “neutral” from
“overweight.”  Fitch Ratings  said last week that Erste’s
revised way of accounting for CDS is already standard practice
elsewhere.  Erste also wrote down the value of its Hungarian and
Romanian subsidiary banks and created additional provisions for
rising bad debt in  Hungary . It will have a loss of as much as
800 million euros ($1.1 billion) this year, the lender said.  In the Reuters interview, Treichl was quoted as saying that
he had “no reason” to change his profit target. While the bank
hadn’t given precise guidance, Treichl had said Feb. 25 that he
was “confident” of achieving more profit than in 2010. The
bank had reported net income of 1 billion euros last year.  Erste has declined 23 percent in Vienna trading since the
last close before the Oct. 10 announcement, the third-worst
performance in the 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index after Dexia SA and National Bank of
Greece SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  