-- 
EU Gets Deal on Naked Sovereign CDS Curb

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/eu-gets-deal-on-naked-sovereign-cds-curbs-short-selling-rules.html
The European Union reached a deal as
part of a short-selling law that will pave the way for an
optional ban on naked credit-default swaps on sovereign debt.  Poland , which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, and
lawmakers from the European Parliament reached the accord
at a meeting in Brussels yesterday.  Under the deal, traders may be prevented from buying
CDS on government bonds unless they either own the sovereign
debt or other assets whose price moves in tandem with it.
Nations will have the right to opt out of the measure if they
detect signs that it may affect their borrowing costs.  “These balanced measures will ensure that sovereign CDS
are used for the purpose for which they were designed, hedging
against the risk of sovereign default, without putting at risk
the proper functioning of sovereign-debt markets,” EU Financial
Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said in a statement.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and lawmakers in
the European Parliament have called for a ban on naked CDS
trades on government debt over concerns the practice fueled the
euro zone’s debt crisis. Germany already has restrictions on
using swaps to bet on sovereign defaults.  Some European governments have also criticized the use of
short selling to bet against bank stocks, arguing that the
practice has roiled markets. Volatility that sent European bank
stocks to two-year lows led  France ,  Spain ,  Belgium  and  Italy  in
August to impose temporary bans on short selling that remain in
force.  Opt-Out Clause  Under yesterday’s deal, national regulators will be able to
suspend the CDS ban in their territory at the first signs that
it may harm their sovereign debt market.  The opt out-clause won over some critics of possible bans.  “I never signed up to the belief that a ban on uncovered
sovereign CDS would have any positive impact,” Syed Kamall, who
represents  London  in the EU Parliament, said in an e-mailed
statement. “However, I’m reassured that member states will have
the ability to opt out of the ban, if they see signals that
sovereign debt markets are distressed.”  The  European Securities and Markets Authority  will give a
non-binding opinion on whether a national regulators’ decision
to drop the ban makes sense. ESMA coordinates the work of
national markets regulators in the 27-nation EU.  Renew Indefinitely  While the suspensions will in theory be temporary,
regulators will be able to renew them indefinitely. Under the
terms of the agreement, existing CDS positions will be
grandfathered until they expire.  CDS are instruments that act as insurance for the buyer
against losses on bonds. The practice becomes naked when someone
buys swaps on debt that they do not actually own.  The measure forms part of a broader agreement on an EU law
that will also curb naked short selling of stocks and  government
bonds .  Poland was negotiating on behalf of the EU’s 27
governments, which will now be asked to formally approve the
deal. The parliament must also vote on the agreement before it
can take effect.  The law was  proposed  by Barnier in September 2010.  Mary Schapiro , the chairwoman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, and regulators from the U.K. discussed
short selling at a  London meeting  on Oct. 13.  Located the Shares  Governments and lawmakers agreed that curbs should be
placed on naked short-selling of stocks by requiring traders to
have at least located the shares they need to complete their
trades and to have a reasonable expectation that they can
acquire them.  For naked short-selling of sovereign debt, only a
reasonable expectation will be required, with governments able
to temporarily suspend even this rule if it poses a threat to
the nation’s ability to sell its bonds.  The agreement would endow ESMA with emergency powers to
temporarily ban short selling and trading in CDS in crisis
situations.  Short sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price, a practice politicians and some
investors blame for roiling markets.  Naked short-selling is when traders short shares without
ever actually taking possession of them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  