-- 
Rehn Says Portugal Has ‘Significant Challenges’ on Budget

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-10-18T12:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/eu-s-rehn-says-faces-portugal-significant-challenges-on-budget.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said Portugal faces “significant
challenges” as it works to narrow its  budget deficit  and meet
the terms of an EU-led rescue package.  Portugal faces “risks” in meeting its 2011 deficit target
and will need to redouble efforts to adopt an “ambitious but
necessary” 2012 budget, Rehn said in a speech to a Lisbon
conference that he delivered in a video message.  The Portuguese Finance Ministry said yesterday that the
economy may contract 2.8 percent next year, more than previously
forecast. This may complicate its aim to trim the deficit from
9.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2010 to 5.9 percent
this year, 4.5 percent in 2012, and to the EU ceiling of 3
percent in 2013.  Portugal  agreed to deficit targets in May when it received
a 78 billion-euro ($107 billion) aid plan with the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund .  The 2012 budget includes a plan to eliminate the summer and
Christmas salary payments for state workers earning more than
1,000 euros a month. As mentioned in the financial aid program,
 tax deductions  will be reduced and the government plans to
increase the value-added  tax rate  on some goods.  Portugal’s austerity program has received across-the-board
support. At the same time, its ability to meet the 2011 targets
is now in question, Rehn said in his speech, which was recorded
before yesterday’s budget announcements.  ‘Failures in Budget Planning’  “This is unfortunate, and underscores failures in budget
planning and execution, which need to be fixed,” Rehn said,
according to text of his remarks. “Significant challenges lie
ahead, which will be assessed in the upcoming second review in
November.”  The  Portuguese government  has proposed “courageous”
measures that allow the country to move past its 2011
difficulties, Rehn said, adding that EU officials will review
the details of the plan in the next few days.  Portugal would send an “important” signal by meeting the
2011 target, Rehn’s spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told reporters in
Brussels today. The 2012 budget proposals are a “bold” step
that would help restore economic growth, he said.  “We welcome the emphasis put on scaling down expenditure
rather than raising revenues,” Altafaj said. He endorsed
efforts to control wages and lengthen working hours.  Expanded Firepower  Rehn also said the EU needs stronger financial backstops to
contain market contagion. Now that euro-area parliaments have
all approved changes to the European Financial Stability
Facility, work can move forward on how to use the rescue fund’s
additional powers.  “Work is proceeding apace to make the new instruments
operational, including the capacity to buy bonds in secondary
markets,” Rehn said. “Maximizing the effective lending
capacity of the EFSF to expand its firepower is also on the
table, and I am confident that an agreement will be found.”  Rehn said he supports speeding up introduction of the
fund’s successor program, the European Stability Mechanism, from
the planned date of mid-2013. The EU will need to revisit its
July 21 aid package for  Greece  and the role bondholders will
play in that rescue effort, he said.  “We need to build a solid second program, avoiding the
continuous current drama,” Rehn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  