-- 
European Stocks Fall on Debt Crisis, China Concern; BHP Drops

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-10-18T16:10:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/european-stock-index-futures-fall-on-debt-crisis-china-concern.html
European stocks fell as concern that
France may lose its top  credit rating  added pressure on the
region’s leaders to find a solution to the debt crisis and as
 China ’s economy grew at the slowest pace in two years.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group led mining shares
lower as metals declined.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA
sank more than 3.5 percent as Moody’s Investors Service said
France’s Aaa rating is under strain. Danone rose 2.2 percent as
it was said to be in talks to sell water assets to  Japan ’s
Suntory Holdings Ltd.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.4 percent to
235.33 at the close of trading. The gauge retreated 1 percent
yesterday as a German government spokesman said that euro-area
leaders will not provide a complete fix to the debt crisis at
their next meeting. The measure has still rallied 9.5 percent
from this year’s low on Sept. 22.  “The crisis is not over yet,” said Martin Huefner, chief
economist at Assenagon GmbH in Munich, which manages more than
$4.7 billion of client assets. “We had a very strong rally in
the last couple of weeks, which was exaggerated. There was no
fundamental reason behind it.”  National benchmark indexes retreated in half of the 18
western European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 dropped 0.5
percent and  France ’s CAC 40 fell 0.8 percent, while  Germany ’s
DAX advanced 0.3 percent.  Plan Divisions  While Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers are
pressing European Union leaders to set out a strategy by the end
of the week, divisions are flaring over an emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion.  “As Sunday’s upcoming EU summit draws closer the hoped for
consensus ‘Grand Plan’ still seems a long way off,”  Jim Reid ,
head of fundamental strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  London ,
wrote in a note to investors today. “Views across the various
EU stakeholders remain divided.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told lawmakers today that
the Oct. 23 meeting will mark an important step, though not the
final one, in solving the euro-area debt crisis, a participant
at the meeting said.  Delegates from the 17 euro nations are moving millimeter by
millimeter, the official told reporters in Berlin today on
condition of anonymity because the talks were held in private.
Merkel’s comments to a gathering of her Christian Democrat
caucus marked the second time in two days that she has sought to
damp expectations that the European crisis-fighting effort would
climax at the summit in Brussels.  China Economy  China’s economy  grew 9.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009. The gain was less
than the median estimate of 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of 22 economists and followed a 9.5 percent increase in
the previous three months. The statistics bureau released the
data in Beijing today.  “In China, I am concerned that growth could fall below 9
percent in the fourth quarter because they’re still rather
restrictive in their monetary policy and inflation is still
high,” Assenagon’s Huefner said.  German investor confidence fell to the lowest in almost
three years in October. The ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said its index of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict developments six months in
advance, declined to minus 48.3 from minus 43.3 in September.
Economists had expected a drop to minus 45, according to the
median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  BHP, Rio Tinto  BHP Billiton , the world’s biggest mining company, lost 0.8
percent to 1,894 pence, while Rio Tinto, the second-largest,
sank 4.3 percent to 3,159.5 pence. Copper declined for a second
day in London amid concern demand from China may slow as the
economy cools. Lead and zinc also fell.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  retreated 1.3 percent to 936.4 pence even after
the largest exporter of power-station coal said total third-
quarter production of the fuel rose 8.1 percent. Copper output
fell 4 percent, the company said.  BNP Paribas, France’s biggest bank, declined 3.6 percent to
29.94 euros. Societe Generale sank 5 percent to 19.24 euros.  France’s Aaa credit rating is under pressure from
deterioration in debt metrics and the potential for additional
liabilities from Europe’s debt crisis, according to Moody’s. The
nation’s financial strength has weakened because of the global
economic crisis, making the nation’s debt measures the weakest
among its Aaa-rated peers, the New York-based company said in a
statement late yesterday that it called a markets update.  Air France, Aixtron  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group slid 2.5 percent to 5.47 euros after
the airline ousted Pierre-Henri Gourgeon as chief executive
officer amid slumping earnings and questions regarding the role
of pilots in a fatal crash.  William Hill Plc (WMH)  tumbled 5.3 percent to 228.8 pence, the
biggest drop in more than two years, as analysts at Deutsche
Bank and Numis Securities downgraded the shares. The U.K.
bookmaker said Eyal Sanoff, chief marketing officer of its
William Hill Online marketing team in Tel Aviv, quit and other
senior managers are subject to disciplinary action in connection
with “disruption” in offices there and in Manila and Bulgaria.  Aixtron SE, a supplier to the semiconductor industry, sank
5.5 percent to 9.97 euros. The company’s third-quarter results
are likely to be “disastrous,” CA Cheuvreux analyst Klaus
Ringel wrote in a report.  Danone (BN) , Suntory  Danone, the owner of the Evian and Volvic bottled-water
brands, rose 2.2 percent to 46.40 euros as three people familiar
with the matter said the company is in talks to sell water
assets to Japan’s Suntory Holdings Ltd. Danone also reported
third-quarter revenue that beat estimates as it sold more baby
food and medical nutrition products in China and Indonesia.  Bottled-water is a “strategic” business for Danone, Chief
Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse said on a webcast today,
declining to comment further. Suntory isn’t formally in
negotiations for Danone’s water assets, said Midori Takahashi, a
spokeswoman for Suntory.  Continental AG (CON)  added 4.4 percent to 53.07 euros, erasing
yesterday’s declines. The world’s fourth-largest tiremaker said
Schaeffler Beteiligungsholding GmbH & Co.’s voting rights rose
to 36.14 percent on Sept 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  