-- 
Euro Rises on Reports Europe Rescue Fund to Be Boosted; Dollar, Yen Fall

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-19T21:20:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/euro-drops-versus-most-peers-on-spain-rating-downgrade-confidence-data.html
The euro erased its gain versus the
dollar and yen as French and German leaders convened to narrow
divisions before a European summit this weekend on the region’s
sovereign debt crisis.  The dollar rallied against most of its major counterparts,
including the Brazilian real and South African rand, on demand
for a refuge. A Franco-German split on the role of the  European
Central Bank  in leveraging the euro bailout fund emerged at an
event in Frankfurt to mark the conclusion of Jean-Claude Trichet’s term as ECB president. South Korea’s won rose versus
the dollar after Japan and South Korea agreed to increase a
currency swap accord to protect from funding shocks related to
European debt turmoil.  “People are concerned about the meeting overall,” said
 Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. in New York. “There’s quite a lot of expectations
going in.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3760 at 5 p.m. in New
York after rising 0.9 percent earlier today. Europe’s currency
traded at 105.69 yen after increasing 0.8 percent earlier to
106.54. The dollar was little changed at 76.81 yen.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  left Paris as French media
reported his wife, Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, was close to giving
birth for a meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
Trichet and International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  in Frankfurt.  Merkel’s Expectations  While Merkel sought this week to lower expectations that
the crisis-fighting effort would climax at the Oct. 23 summit in
Brussels, Group of 20 finance chiefs last week set the meeting
as a deadline for action. Failure risks a global economic slump,
they said.  “Investors continue to give leaders the benefit of the
doubt that something constructive can emerge this weekend,”
said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in Washington at Travelex
Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network.  Steffen Seibert, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s chief
spokesman, declined in an interview to comment on a report in
the Guardian that Germany and France have agreed to increase the
440-billion euro ($606 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility, the region’s rescue fund, to 2 trillion euros.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a preliminary
vote in parliament on a new austerity bill in Athens, bolstering
his chances of securing further international aid for the
country. Workers including bank employees and taxi drivers began
a two-day strike.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners led by the euro, fell almost 0.1 percent to
77.101, paring its drop on revived demand for a refuge.  South Korea ’s won advanced to a four-week high after
President  Lee Myung Bak  and Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  agreed to increase a currency-swap accord by more than
fivefold to $70 billion.  “The move strengthens our positive relative value view
towards the Korean won against most other regional currencies
and should also be supportive of Korean assets in general,”
Ilan Solot, an emerging-markets strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in  London , wrote in a note to clients.  The won climbed 1.2 percent to 1,132.30 per dollar after
touching 1,128.53, the strongest level since Sept. 19.  Drop in Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.3 percent on the
split between Germany and  France . Crude oil for November
delivery tumbled 2.6 percent to $86.07 a barrel.  Brazil’s real decreased 1.1 percent to 1.7740 against the
dollar and South Africa’s rand slid 0.9 percent to 8.0420 on
reduced demand for higher-yielding assets.  Norway’s krone was little changed at 5.6181 per dollar
after the central bank signaled it won’t raise borrowing costs
until the second half of next year on concern a slowing global
economy will hurt exports and sap growth. The benchmark  interest
rate  was held at 2.25 percent.  The euro has declined 3.8 percent against the currencies of
nine developed-nation counterparts in the past year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has risen 3.9
percent, while the dollar has dropped 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  