-- 
European Investment Banks in ‘Crisis Mode,’ UBS Analysts Say

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-10-18T07:45:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/european-investment-banks-in-crisis-mode-ubs-analysts-say.html
European investment banks are in
“crisis mode” as they struggle with a declining revenue pool,
tough funding conditions and increasing political pressure,  UBS
AG (UBSN)  analysts said in a report.  UBS cut its earnings-per-share estimates for  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  by 14 percent for 2011, 9 percent for 2012 and 8 percent in
2013, analysts including Philipp Zieschang said in a note to
clients today. It also trimmed its estimates for  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  by 5 percent for 2012 and by 4 percent for 2013.  “While revenues are likely to have so far suffered from
lower client activity and reduced risk appetite, accelerated
legacy asset reduction could further weigh on the top line,”
UBS said. There is “no surprise that most of the global
investment banks are in the process of reducing costs and are
likely to currently shape plans for further cuts beyond those
already announced,” they said.  Deutsche Bank scrapped its profit forecast this month and
announced 500 job cuts and further writedowns of Greek bond
holdings amid a “significant and unabated slowdown in client
activity” in the wake of  Europe ’s debt crisis. Zurich-based
Credit Suisse plans to shut its unit for originating commercial
mortgages to be packaged into bonds after price declines eroded
profit margins on new sales, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter this month.  “Pressing sovereign debt and macro concerns are having a
negative impact on investor activity, asset prices and risk
appetite,” UBS said in the note. “Visibility has been
significantly reduced, particularly in fixed income, where
balance sheet positioning remains an important factor for
results,” it said.  UBS is maintaining its “buy” recommendation on Deutsche
Bank and “neutral” rating on Credit Suisse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  