-- 
Ex-Dow Scientist Admits to Economic Espionage, U.S. Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-10-18T21:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/ex-dow-agrosciences-researcher-huang-pleads-guilty-to-trade-secrets-theft.html
An ex-Dow AgroSciences LLC
researcher pleaded guilty to economic espionage in connection
with the theft of trade secrets from his former employer to
benefit a Chinese university, the U.S.  Justice Department  said.  Kexue Huang, 48, also admitted to stealing trade secrets
from the Minneapolis-based grain distributor Cargill Inc., the
U.S. said in a press statement today.  “Mr. Huang used his insider status at two of America’s
largest agricultural companies to steal valuable trade secrets
for use in his native  China ,” Assistant U.S. Attorney General
Lanny Breuer said in the statement.  Huang entered guilty pleas today in two separate criminal
cases before U.S. District Judge William T. Lawrence in
Indianapolis. Financial losses from his conduct exceed
$7 million, the U.S. said.  His attorney, James Edgar of Indianapolis, didn’t
immediately reply to voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking
comment on the pleas.  Huang worked for the Indianapolis-based unit of Midland,
Michigan-based  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , where he researched the
development of organically derived pesticides, from 2003 to
2008. He then went to work for Cargill as a biotechnologist.  Two People  While at Dow, he shared confidential information with at
least two people, one of whom conducted research first at the
Hunan Normal University in China and later in Dresden,  Germany ,
according to a plea agreement that didn’t name the people.  In stealing, transferring and using Dow trade secrets,
Huang “intended to benefit” Hunan Normal University and the
 National Science Foundation  of China, according to the plea
agreement. Each of those institutions is controlled by the
Chinese government.  A U.S. grand jury in Indianapolis indicted Huang on 17
counts in June 2010. A separate federal grand jury in  Minnesota 
returned a single-count indictment accusing him of stealing a
trade secret related to  food processing  from Cargill in
November. That case was transferred to Indianapolis, where it
was unsealed today.  Huang also admitted to sharing information taken from
Cargill with a Hunan Normal University student.  “Cargill is pleased the case has been resolved,” a
spokeswoman for the company, Lori Fligge, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Ten Years  Garry Hamlin, a Dow spokesman, said it can take more than
10 years for the technology Huang tried to obtain to reach the
market.  “Dow AgroSciences has analytical technology and processes
in place to identify third-party product produced with
proprietary technology stolen by Mr. Huang,” Hamlin said in an
e-mailed statement. Dow is strengthening security measures to
protect its technology and seeking to ensure that counterfeit
products derived from it never find a market, said Hamlin.  The crime of economic espionage is punishable by as long as
15 years in prison, and trade-secret theft carries a maximum
term of 10 years, the Justice Department said.  “Today’s plea underscores the continuing threat posed by
the theft of business secrets for the benefit of China and other
nations,” Lisa Monaco, assistant U.S. attorney general for
national security, said in the Justice Department’s statement.  The Chinese embassy’s press attache in  Washington  also
didn’t immediately reply to an e-mailed request for comment.  The cases are U.S. v. Huang, 10cr102 and 11cr163, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Indiana  (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 