-- 
Former News Corp. Editor Sues Hacking Investigation Committee on Contract

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-10-18T11:21:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/ex-news-corp-editor-sues-hacking-probe-committee-claims-contract-breach.html
News Corp.’s British publishing unit
faces two lawsuits over the July firing of a tabloid editor at
the behest of the board-appointed committee probing phone-
hacking and other illegal tactics by the company’s journalists.  Matt Nixson, who was a features editor at the Sun newspaper
and formerly worked at the News of the World, where the scandal
started, filed a complaint for unfair dismissal last month at
the Employment Tribunal in  London , his lawyer Gerald Shamash
said. Nixson then sued the company again on Oct. 14 at the Royal
Courts of Justice, alleging the company breached his contract by
dismissing him without explanation, the lawyer said.  “Several months later, we still do not know why” he was
fired, Shamash said today in a telephone interview. “They
maintain they cannot tell us. We have asked the police and
they’ve said he’s of no interest to them.”  Nixson is at least the fifth former employee to sue the New
York-based company since the phone-hacking scandal erupted in
July and the first to name members of its Management & Standards
Committee as defendants. The MSC was formed in July to deal with
police and political investigations into charges that  News Corp. (NWSA) 
reporters used illegal tactics to acquire information for
stories, forcing the company to close the News of the World.  Simon Greenberg , Will Lewis and Jeffrey Palker, the members
of the MSC, are named in Nixson’s lawsuit, along with commercial
lawyer Anthony Grabiner, a member of the U.K. Parliament’s House
of Lords who was hired as an independent overseer of the
committee. The committee’s decision that Nixson should be
dismissed “induced” the contract breach, Shamash said.  Campbell, Morley  News International spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  declined to
comment on the cases yesterday, as did Paul Durman, a spokesman
for the MSC.  A journalists’ union tried and failed to set up a meeting
with News International to discuss Nixson’s firing, Shamash
said. The lawyer is separately representing some phone-hacking
victims, including  Tony Blair ’s ex-press chief Alastair Campbell
and former lawmaker  Elliot Morley , who was jailed this year for
filing false expenses. Morley has since been released.  Andy Coulson, the former editor of the News of the World
and a former press adviser to Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
filed a suit in September when News Corp. stopped paying his
legal fees, as did News of the World private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  over the same issue in August. Former News of the World
chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck filed a wrongful termination
suit at an employment tribunal the same month. Ian Edmondson, a
former assistant editor at the tabloid, filed a similar claim,
according to the  Daily Mail .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  