-- 
Express Scripts, Medco Face Added Scrutiny on Acquisition

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-10-18T17:42:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/express-scripts-medco-face-increased-u-s-scrutiny-on-merger.html
A second congressional committee is
planning to examine antitrust concerns raised by  Express Scripts
Inc. (ESRX) ’s proposed purchase of competitor  Medco Health Solutions
Inc. (MHS) , congressional aides said.  The combined company would be the largest U.S. manager of
pharmacy benefits for employers, insurers and union health
plans. Senator  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin Democrat who leads the
Judiciary subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition Policy and
Consumer Rights, plans a hearing on the acquisition in November,
his spokeswoman, Lynn Becker, said in an e-mail.  Express Scripts ’ $29.1 billion purchase is already under
review by the Federal Trade Commission, and states have opened
inquiries into the sale out of concern that the combined company
will command too much market power, St. Louis-based Express
Scripts has said. A House subcommittee on competitive issues
held a hearing on the sale in September.  Kohl’s hearing “is fully warranted and would help shine a
light on a number of costly middlemen practices that needlessly
drive up prescription drug costs and would only grow worse
should this merger be approved,” said B. Douglas Hoey, chief
executive officer of the  National Community Pharmacists
Association , in an e-mail.  Express Scripts fell 2 cents to $40.06 at 1:26 p.m., after
a peak of $40.46. Medco slid 21 cents to $48.51 at 1:28 p.m.,
off its intraday high of $48.98.  Lobbying Push  Hoey’s group and the  National Association of Chain Drug
Stores,  an organization representing companies including
 Walgreen Co. (WAG) , are lobbying the FTC and Congress against the
combination of Express Scripts and Franklin Lakes, New Jersey-
based Medco.  Express Scripts CEO George Paz told members of the House
subcommittee that the acquisition would result in “safer and
more affordable” drugs. A spokesman for Express Scripts,  Brian
Henry , declined to comment on Kohl’s plans for a hearing.  Kohl comes into the hearing with an open mind on the tie-
up, Senate aides said in a telephone interview, and plans to
question the companies about whether their merger will reduce
costs for drugs and how it would affect pharmacies.  He also wants to know whether insurers and employer health
plans could choose from an adequate number of pharmacy benefit
managers should Medco disappear, said the aides, who couldn’t be
identified because the hearing hasn’t been announced.  The combined company would act as an intermediary in about
a third of all U.S. prescription drug sales and would control
about 60 percent of the mail-order pharmacy market, according to
the House Judiciary subcommittee on  Intellectual Property ,
Competition and the Internet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  