-- 
Facebook, Madoff, Royal Dutch Shell, Altria in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-10-18T10:47:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/facebook-madoff-royal-dutch-shell-altria-in-court-news.html
A  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  unit was
sued by over securitized mortgage loans for which  Assured
Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  guaranteed payments to investors and that the bond
insurer says were riskier than promised.  Credit Suisse’s DLJ Mortgage Capital Inc. misrepresented
the quality of loans underlying the mortgage securities,
exposing Assured to “hundreds of millions of dollars” in
current and future claim payments, Assured units said in a
complaint filed yesterday in  New York  state Supreme Court.  “Assured is exposed to enormous current and future claims
under the policies,” they said.  Credit Suisse spokesman Steven Vames said in an e-mailed
statement that the company would fight Assured’s attempt to
“misuse litigation to sidestep its insurance responsibilities
and shift its own exposure to others.” Credit Suisse Securities
(USA) LLC is also named as a defendant.  “Assured is a sophisticated multibillion dollar insurance
company that received full disclosure about the securities they
chose to insure,” he said. “Now that investors have suffered
losses, Assured has chosen to file a lawsuit to evade its
insurance obligations.”  Assured is among bond insurers including  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  that are
suing lenders from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
over mortgages packaged into securities and backed by the
insurers.  Assured Chief Executive Officer Dominic Frederico said on a
conference call with investors in May that it was seeking
buybacks from Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank and  UBS AG (UBSN)  on $5.4
billion of loans he said violated so-called representations and
warranties made by the banks.  The case is Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. v. DLJ
Mortgage Capital Inc, 652837-2011, New York state Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Facebook Ownership Claimant Ceglia Loses His Third Legal Team  Paul Ceglia , the New York man who claims a 2003 contract
entitles him to half the holdings of Facebook Inc. founder  Mark
Zuckerberg , lost his third legal team after allegedly telling
them to violate a court order.  Jeffrey Lake, a San Diego,  California , lawyer whose firm
represents Ceglia in the suit, filed papers in federal court in
Buffalo, New York yesterday to withdraw from the case and asking
for a three-week delay to allow a new legal team to “come up to
speed.”  “Paul Ceglia is currently in discussions with several
attorneys concerning substitution of new counsel in this case,”
Lake said in an affidavit filed with the court. “It is my
understanding that these attorneys are diligently coming up to
speed with the facts and proceedings in an effort to effectively
represent Paul Ceglia in future proceedings.”  The move comes after Facebook asked a federal judge to
impose sanctions on Ceglia for allegedly failing to turn over
evidence and telling his lawyers not to comply with a court
order. Since filing the suit in June 2010, Ceglia has had three
sets of lead counsel quit the case. At least two other law firms
declined to represent Ceglia after reviewing his evidence.  Facebook, which operates the world’s biggest social-
networking site, asked U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio in
papers filed Oct. 14 to punish Ceglia and his lawyers for
failing to produce all the e-mail accounts and passwords he used
since 2003. Ceglia’s lawyers said in court papers Oct. 7 that
their client instructed them “not to comply” with that part of
Foschio’s order, issued in August.  “The decision by Ceglia’s lawyers to turn on their client
and publicly accuse him of wrongdoing by disclosing their
confidential communications with him -- as part of an effort to
protect themselves and shift the blame to their client -- raises
serious questions as to whether they have violated their
professional duties and may continue to represent Ceglia in this
matter,” Facebook said in its filing.  In his suit, filed in June 2010, Ceglia claims he and
Zuckerberg signed a contract in 2003 making them partners at the
start of Palo Alto, California-based Facebook. The company calls
Ceglia’s claim a fraud.  Lake didn’t return a call and e-mail message seeking
comment.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For more, click here.  AT&T Claims Sprint Working With U.S. in T-Mobile Lawsuits  AT&T Inc. said  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and Cellular South Inc.
are working with the U.S. Justice Department to gain a tactical
advantage in lawsuits seeking to block AT&T’s proposal to buy T-
Mobile USA Inc.  In a filing yesterday in  Washington , AT&T asked U.S.
District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle to reject Sprint and Cellular
South’s request for access to confidential information it turned
over to the Justice Department for its lawsuit seeking to block
the deal, arguing the judge denied a similar request last month
by Sprint. AT&T said the U.S. is now backing the companies’ bid
for “special privileges” in the case.  Sprint and Cellular South last week asked Huvelle to allow
their outside lawyers and experts to use the confidential data
to prepare for trial in their own lawsuits challenging the T-
Mobile deal. To deprive them of that opportunity creates a
“fundamental unfairness,” they said in a joint filing.  “The United States supports petitioners’ motion because it
would like to augment its litigation efforts with the work of
privately funded counsel,” Mark Hansen, of Kellogg, Huber,
Hansen, Todd, Evans & Figel PLLC in Washington, a lawyer for
AT&T, said in the filing.  The companies argued that, as competitors with relevant
information, they have been subpoenaed for documents by AT&T in
the government’s antitrust suit. At the same time, Huvelle,
overseeing all the AT&T cases, froze document exchanges in the
private lawsuits while she weighs the company’s bid to dismiss
them. On Oct. 12, the Justice Department urged Huvelle to allow
Sprint and Cellular South access to AT&T’s information.  In yesterday’s filing, AT&T said the subpoenas it issued to
Sprint, Cellular South and 14 other wireless providers are
routine and seek information on similar topics. Huvelle said in
a court filing that she’ll address the issue at a hearing
scheduled for Oct. 24.  John Taylor, a spokesman for Sprint, said AT&T is seeking
“volumes of documents” beyond the more than two million pages
Sprint and Cellular South gave the government during the Justice
Department probe.  The case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Madoff Feeder Fund Investors Seek Customer Status in Appeal  Investors in 16 funds that channeled money into Bernard L.
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme asked a court to rule they were Madoff
“customers” eligible to claim money set aside for the
confidence man’s victims.  The investors, in a brief filed Oct. 14, asked U.S.
District Judge  Denise Cote  in New York to reverse a  Bankruptcy
Court  ruling that blocks them from claiming a share of the $8.7
billion recovered so far by Madoff bankruptcy trustee Irving H.
Picard. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  ruled them
ineligible in June, because they didn’t hold accounts directly
with Madoff’s firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC.  The investors say they placed their money with funds that
put 95 percent or more with Madoff’s firm. Lifland agreed with
Picard’s decision to deny their claims.  “The Bankruptcy Court simply ignores that the ‘Feeder
Funds’ were created specifically, and with a legal obligation,
to invest their investors’ funds in the BLMIS accounts,
expressly to take advantage of Bernard Madoff’s management of
their money through his apparently successful, long-term ‘split
strike conversion’ investment strategy,” the investors said in
the brief.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 1:11-cv-06565, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials  Torture Suits Against Companies Draw U.S. High Court Review  The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to use a case involving units
of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to consider whether corporations can be
sued under federal laws that protect people in other countries
from human rights abuses.  The justices yesterday said they will hear two appeals on
the issue, including one from a group of Nigerians who say two
Shell units were complicit in torture and execution in the
country’s Ogoni region from 1992 to 1995. A federal appeals
court threw out the case, saying companies can’t be sued under
the two-century-old Alien Tort Statute.  The lower court ruling created “a blanket immunity for
corporations engaged or complicit in universally condemned human
rights violations,” the alleged victims argued in their appeal.  Multinational companies have faced dozens of suits accusing
them of playing a role in human rights violations, environmental
wrongdoing and labor abuses.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , Unocal Corp.,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  have
all been sued under either the Alien Tort Statute or a related
law, known as the Torture Victim Protection Act or TVPA.  The justices also accepted a case that may determine
whether companies can be sued under the TVPA. In that case a
federal appeals court threw out a suit filed against the
Palestinian Authority and the Palestinian Liberation
Organization by the sons and widow of Azzam Rahim, a U.S.
citizen allegedly tortured and murdered in the West Bank during
the 1990s.  A Supreme Court decision in favor of the two units, Shell
Petroleum NV and Shell Transport and Trading Co., would change
the law in much of the country. Most federal appeals courts to
consider the issue have said that companies can be sued under
the 1789 Alien Tort Statute, just like individuals.  Kayla Macke, a Shell spokeswoman in Houston, said the
company wouldn’t comment on the Supreme Court case.  The Shell case is Kiobel v. Shell Petroleum, 10-1491. The
Palestinian case is Mohamad v. Rajoub, 11-88, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  For more, click here.  Philip Morris  Misled Smokers on Light Cigarettes, Jury Told  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris unit deceived Missouri
consumers by marketing Marlboro Lights as safer than regular
cigarettes, a lawyer told a St. Louis jury.  “Philip Morris made two promises -- to provide lower tar
and nicotine to smokers,” Stephen Swedlow, who represents
Missouri smokers suing the company, said yesterday in closing
arguments in the state-court trial. “They did not deliver on
this.”  In the lawsuit, a class action, or group case, filed in
2000 on behalf of all buyers of Marlboro Lights in Missouri, the
smokers claim Philip Morris misrepresented that the brand was
lower in tar and nicotine, a violation of state merchandising
law. The cigarettes are no safer than others, the consumers said
in court papers.  The smokers, who are seeking $700 million plus punitive
damages, don’t claim any personal injuries. The class, which was
certified in 2005, includes as many as 400,000 current and
former Marlboro Lights smokers. The trial began with opening
statements last month.  “There was no deception on our part,” Beth Wilkinson, a
Philip Morris attorney, said in her closing argument.  “Did they prove that Marlboro Lights didn’t deliver less
tar and nicotine? Did they prove that Marlboro Lights withheld
information?” she asked. “They did not prove their case.”  Philip Morris didn’t tout Marlboro Lights as safer and its
packages contain the same warnings as other cigarettes,
Wilkinson said. “What other product in the United States has a
warning that you’re taking your life in your own hands if you
smoke these?”  Missouri smokers sustained no damages, George Lombardi,
another Philip Morris attorney, said in his closing yesterday.  Philip Morris owes damages because the company
“fraudulently represented” that there was less tar and
nicotine in Marlboro Lights, Swedlow, the plaintiffs’ attorney,
said yesterday. The smokers didn’t get what they were promised
and this made their purchases worth less than what they paid, he
said.  The case is Larsen v. Philip Morris Cos., 002-00406-02,
Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri.  For more, click here.  Weavering Chief Orchestrated $600 Million Fraud, Lawyer Says  The founder of Weavering Capital (UK) Ltd. was the “chief
architect of a $600 million hedge-fund fraud” as he hid losses
from investors and falsely inflated the fund’s value, a lawyer
for the fund’s administrators said.  Magnus Peterson “attracted hundreds of millions of dollars
from investors” by marketing the Weavering Macro Fixed Income
Fund Ltd. as an easily liquidated fund with low risk, a lawyer
for the administrators of the fund, Robert Anderson, said at the
first day of a civil trial in  London  yesterday seeking to recoup
losses from Peterson and other former Weavering employees.  The fund collapsed in March 2009, and Peterson and Edward
Platt, his deputy investment manager, were arrested by the U.K.
Serious Fraud Office, which investigates white-collar crime. The
SFO decided last month not to bring charges because it didn’t
think it could win a conviction.  Peterson told investors the fund had returns of as much as
12 percent per year, with a diversified portfolio of exchange-
traded futures and options, based on the macroeconomic research
of James Stewart, the fund’s then chief economist, Anderson
said.  After the fund lost money on Peterson’s options trades, he
sought to hide the losses with fraudulent swaps investments.
When the fund collapsed, administrators discovered that the
counterparty for the Macro fund’s biggest trading position was
controlled by Weavering.  “The fraud was discovered when investors sought to
withdraw their money following the market turbulence of 2008,”
Anderson said. “The reported value of the fund consisted solely
of the worthless swaps.”  MCR , Weavering’s administrator, is also suing Peterson’s
wife, Amanda, and Platt. The Petersons, both derivatives
traders, met while they were working at the Swedish bank
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB in London in the 1980s. Amanda
Peterson, who was also an employee of Weavering, “ought to have
uncovered and reported the fraud,” Anderson said.  The defendants will present their arguments later in the
trial. A spokeswoman at Stephenson Harwood, Amanda Peterson’s
law firm, declined to comment on the lawsuit. Magnus Peterson
and Platt are representing themselves in the case.  Barnaby Stueck, a lawyer for MCR, said last month there is
“a devastating weight of evidence against Mr. Peterson.” He
said he disagreed with the outcome of the SFO investigation. MCR
liquidator Geoffrey Bouchier said it was “deeply disappointing
to Weavering’s investors and creditors.”  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-Deloitte Partner’s Wife Settles SEC Case for $1 Million  Annabel McClellan, the wife of an ex-Deloitte Tax LP
partner, agreed to pay $1 million to settle a U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission lawsuit alleging she and her husband
tipped family members to merger deals.  The SEC will drop claims against her husband Arnold
McClellan, who headed one of Deloitte’s regional mergers and
acquisitions teams, if a federal judge approves his wife’s
settlement, said Daniel Bookin, his attorney.  Annabel McClellan didn’t admit wrongdoing, according to a
consent of final judgment filed yesterday in federal court in
 San Francisco . Robert Tashjian, an SEC lawyer in San Francisco
involved in the case, declined to comment.  McClellan, who pleaded guilty in April to one count of
obstructing the SEC’s investigation, said she overhead her
husband talking about the deals and passed the information to
her brother-in-law, according to a transcript of her change of
plea hearing.  Nanci Clarence and Nicole Neubert, lawyers for Annabel
McClellan, didn’t return messages seeking comment about the
settlement.  The McClellans, of San Francisco, were sued last year for
allegedly telling family members of at least seven confidential
buyouts between 2006 and 2008 planned by Deloitte’s clients,
including Kronos Inc., aQuantive Inc. and Getty Images Inc. The
relatives made about $3 million in profits, the lawsuit said.  The case is U.S. v McClellan, 10-5412, U.S. District Court
(San Francisco).  Grupo  Mexico  Ordered to Pay $1.3 Billion to Southern Copper  Grupo Mexico SAB must return $1.3 billion in shares to
 Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO)  for forcing the unit to overpay for a
Mexican mining company, a Delaware judge ruled.  Southern Copper bought a 99 percent stake in Minera Mexico,
a company owned by Grupo Mexico, in October 2004 for $3.75
billion, higher than a previous valuation of $3.1 billion. The
transaction was unfair, Delaware Chancery Court Chief Judge Leo
Strine ruled.  “A focused, aggressive controller extracted a deal that
was far better than market,” Strine wrote in a 106-page opinion
on Oct. 14.  Southern Copper shareholders sued on behalf of the company
claiming that it overpaid because directors and a financial
adviser failed to derive a true value for Minera and instead
relied on a relative analysis when comparing the two companies,
according to court documents.  Juan Rebolledo , a Grupo Mexico spokesman, said the company
will appeal the ruling.  Grupo Mexico, which owns about 80 percent of Southern
Copper, “is in total disagreement with the court’s ruling,”
the company said in a separate statement. The form to make the
payment to compensate Southern Copper still needs to be set by
the court, Grupo Mexico said.  A special committee of Southern Copper directors made
“strenuous efforts” to justify the deal by optimizing Minera’s
cash flows, discounting the fact that the Mexican company had
trouble paying its bills, and agreeing to pay a special
dividend, Strine said in the ruling.  “The special committee turned the ‘gold’ it was holding in
trust into ‘silver’ and did an exchange with ‘silver’ on that
basis, ignoring that in the real world the gold they held had a
much higher market price,” Strine wrote.  The case is In Re Southern Peru Copper Shareholder
Derivative Litigation, CA961, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Accenture Verdict on Theft of Partner’s Work Upheld by Judge  Accenture LLP can’t retry a Houston jury’s finding that it
maliciously misappropriated a joint marketing partner’s software
product and intentionally cut the startup firm out of future
business deals, a U.S. judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison upheld a Houston
federal jury’s May verdict that consulting giant Accenture stole
key components of Wellogix Inc.’s proprietary “purchase to
pay” software and used it without compensation.  “Wellogix presented evidence that Accenture not only
intended to misappropriate Wellogix’s trade secrets, but that it
also intended to cause Wellogix substantial harm,” Ellison said
in an Oct. 14 ruling. “There was evidence that Accenture
intended to steal Wellogix’s trade secrets and to cut Wellogix
out of the business deals with BP and SAP America Inc.
Ultimately, the court finds that there is sufficient evidence
that Accenture engaged in reprehensible conduct.”  Ellison’s order slashed the $94 million damages awarded the
startup software developer to a combined $44 million in
compensatory and punitive damages. Ellison said jurors gave
Wellogix $50 million more in punitive damages than its lawyers
had asked for.  “The amount so exceeds what was requested by Wellogix’s
counsel that it appears contrary to right reason,” Ellison
said. He ordered Wellogix to either accept the reduced damages
award or take its chances on a new trial. He denied Accenture’s
request for a new trial in the same order.  Rick Laminack and Tom Pirtle, Wellogix’s lawyers, didn’t
return calls seeking comment on the judge’s order. Christina
Rodriguez and Maria Boyce, Accenture’s attorneys, also didn’t
return calls for comment yesterday.  The case is Wellogix Inc. v Accenture LLP, 3:08-cv-0019,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  News Corp. (NWSA)  Drops Farrer & Co. Before Phone-Hacking Testimony  News Corp. parted ways with the law firm Farrer & Co.,
which represented the company in lawsuits involving phone-
hacking at the News of the World, days before a lawyer at the
firm is scheduled to testify to Parliament.  The decision was “mutually agreed” by the law firm and
News Corp.’s Management and Standards Committee, which is
running an internal probe of the hacking scandal, the company
said in an e-mail yesterday. News Corp. replaced Farrer & Co.
with the law firm Olswang, which was already advising the
committee and handling a few of the lawsuits, it said.  “They’ve essentially consolidated all the cases,” News
Corp.’s London-based spokeswoman Alice MacAndrew said in a phone
interview. “Olswang had been working with the company since
February and they were doing a couple of the cases, and it made
sense to transition to one firm.”  News Corp., based in New York, has agreed to pay more than
4 million pounds ($6.3 million) in at least six settlements with
celebrities who were the subjects of News of the World stories.
The family of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler was offered 2
million pounds plus a 1 million-pound donation to charity in
September, in the largest settlement to date, according to a
person familiar with the case.  Farrer & Co. partner Julian Pike is scheduled to address
Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport Committee on Oct. 19 about
News Corp.’s settlement with Gordon Taylor, chief executive of
the Professional Footballers’ Association. Victims’ lawyers have
said the deal was a bid to stop the scandal from spreading.  “The company thought it best to make the announcement
ahead of Pike’s meeting with Parliament, in the interest of
transparency,” MacAndrew said.  Farrer & Co. spokeswoman Cara Rowell said it is “no longer
representing” News Corp. in the phone hacking litigation. She
declined to comment further, citing client confidentiality.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 