-- 
Fannie, Freddie End Lawyer Networks Amid Foreclosure Woes

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-10-18T20:30:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/fannie-freddie-said-to-end-lawyer-networks-amid-mortgage-woes.html
Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  will
phase out their foreclosure attorney networks in the wake of the
so-called robo-signing scandal, the companies’ regulator said.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  directed the companies
to transition to a system that allows mortgage servicers to
select their own law firms for processing defaults and
foreclosures, rather than relying on a pool of attorneys
designated by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.  The move is in line with an ongoing effort to establish
uniform foreclosure processes at the two companies, the FHFA
announced in a press release.  Fannie Mae currently requires mortgage servicers handling
its loans to use its Retained Attorney Network for foreclosures
and bankruptcies. Some of those lawyers have been accused by
lawmakers, regulators and consumer groups of mishandling
paperwork for evictions and foreclosures, including falsifying
signatures on court affidavits. The dispute led many mortgage
servicers to suspend foreclosure activity last year.  In a September report, the FHFA’s Office of Inspector
General found that Fannie Mae did not monitor the conduct of its
191 network law firms.  Earlier this month, Representative Elijah Cummings of
 Maryland , the top Democrat on the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, asked FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco
to consider ending the Fannie Mae program.  Cummings Statement  Cummings said in a statement today he would press FHFA for
details on how law firms will be monitored under the new system
“to ensure that specific measures are in place to require
mortgage servicers to properly oversee the actions of law firms
conducting foreclosure proceedings.”  Fannie Mae will phase out its existing system “with
minimal disruption,” spokeswoman  Amy Bonitatibus  said.  Freddie Mac’s Designated Counsel Program also will be
eliminated. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-
controlled mortgage companies, have drawn more than $170 billion
in taxpayer aid since they were taken into conservatorship three
years ago.  Banks and mortgage services have been in talks since early
this year with state attorneys general and federal regulators
over settling claims related to flawed foreclosures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 