-- 
Farm-Payment Plan May Keep Major-Crop Subsidies, Groups Say

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-10-18T19:58:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/farm-subsidy-plan-may-keep-support-for-major-crops-groups-say.html
A plan to shift some  farm subsidies 
into a revenue-protection measure may cost more than expected
and won’t make necessary changes to agricultural programs,
according to advocates for lower payments.  A bill backed by Democratic senators  Richard Durbin  of
 Illinois  and Sherrod Brown of Ohio and Republicans  Richard Lugar 
of Indiana and  John Thune  of  South Dakota  would consolidate
several subsidy programs into a plan to aid farmers when revenue
declines. The proposal would save $19.8 billion over 10 years,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The agriculture
committees of both houses have pledged to come up with $23
billion in cuts by Nov. 1.  Subsidies are an inviting target for congressional budget
cutters, after the Department of Agriculture forecast record
farm profits of $103.6 billion this year as livestock sales
expand and exports set records. Still, the bill proposed by the
four senators may not save as much as projected, as moving to
programs that guarantee revenues could tempt lawmakers to boost
farm aid further should prices plunge.  “It’s a way to lock in high prices,” said Sallie James, a
farm-policy analyst with the  Cato Institute , a policy center in
 Washington  that advocates for reduced  government spending . “If
you think commodity prices will stay high until kingdom come,
this saves money. Color me skeptical.”  $23 Billion in Cuts  Spending on agriculture, rural development and nutrition
should be cut by no more than $23 billion, leaders of the U.S.
House and Senate farm panels last week told the supercommittee
charged with reducing the federal deficit yesterday. Higher crop
prices, which result in lower subsidies, already will drive down
payments to an estimated $10.2 billion this year, less than half
the record $24.4 billion in 2005, according to government data.  The 12-member bipartisan supercommittee has until Nov. 23
to come up with a plan to reduce the federal  budget deficit  by
at least $1.2 trillion. The law that created the panel requires
automatic, across-the board spending cuts if Congress doesn’t
approve its recommendations.  Several plans for saving money while protecting farmers
have been proposed by groups and lawmakers, including the
American Soybean Association and Senator  Kent Conrad , a North
Dakota Democrat. The recommendations the agriculture committees
will adopt will probably incorporate elements of the major
proposals, said Chandler Goule, the chief lobbyist for the
National Farmers Union, the second-biggest U.S. farmer group.  ‘Shallow Losses’  The bill backed by  Durbin, Brown , Thune and Lugar would
create a program to protect farmers of major crops including
corn, wheat, rice, soybeans and cotton from “shallow losses,”
providing income during periods of long-term price declines or
extended weather disasters. The plan “is not your grandpa’s
farm policy,” Brown said in an e-mailed statement.  “Our proposal saves billions of taxpayer dollars by
consolidating four existing farm programs into one that is tied
to the market” so farmers receive assistance only when they
need it, he said.  The measure would guarantee income within an average of
prices in previous years, smoothing out some of the recent
volatility in futures trading:  Wheat traded in  Chicago , for
example, has seen annual gains of 77 percent and 47 percent
since 2007 and a loss of 31 percent.  “These programs will protect from long-term declines from
drought or precipitous declines in prices,” said Sam Willett, a
senior policy director for the St. Louis-based National Corn
Growers Association, a lobbying group for the biggest U.S. crop.  Aid When Needed  Unlike a $5 billion annual “direct payment” program of
subsidies that go to farmers regardless of price -- an
initiative the new plan may replace -- “this is designed to
assist producers only when they need it,” Willett said.  The plan may have some support among lawmakers trying to
maintain a safety net for farmers while spending is being
reduced, James said. Still, it may not go far enough in
reforming farm policy that critics say distorts trade and fails
to promote the most nutritious food supply possible, said Jim
French, a farmer outside Hutchinson,  Kansas , and a paid advocate
for Oxfam America, the U.S. arm of the global humanitarian
group.  ‘End-Run Maneuver’  “It looks like an end-run maneuver against programs that
would serve an equitable food system,” said French, who grows
wheat and sorghum. With the demand for cuts creating a chance to
re-examine agriculture subsidies in general, the new proposed
payment is a missed opportunity, he said. “It benefits the same
crops when we should be broadening what we support,” he said.  Willett said the new program may help ensure a consistent
safety net is applied to the crops U.S. consumers depend upon
most. “If you look at prices, the market tells us we need more
corn,” he said. In the current budget environment, “you have
to be innovative and accepting of reforms,” he said.  Corn futures traded in Chicago rose 14 percent in the past
year through yesterday.  Federal subsidies encourage greater production and reduce
raw-materials costs for grain traders such as Cargill Inc.,
 Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and Archer Daniels Midland Co. Meatpackers that rely
on corn-fed livestock, including  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , and food
processors such as  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  also benefit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  