-- 
FDA Chemist Liang Pleads Guilty to Insider Trading Tied to Drug Approvals

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-18T21:42:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/fda-chemist-liang-pleads-guilty-to-insider-trading-scheme.html
U.S. Food and Drug Administration
chemist Cheng Yi Liang admitted using his access to the agency’s
drug-approval process to make $3.8 million in an  insider-trading 
scheme.  Liang, who worked for the FDA’s  Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research , pleaded guilty today in federal court in
Greenbelt, Maryland, to one count of  securities fraud  and one
count of making false statements. He faces a maximum penalty on
the insider-trading charge of 20 years in prison and a $5
million fine and five years’ imprisonment on the false-
statements charge when he’s sentenced on Jan. 9.  “Do you agree all those facts are true,” U.S. District
Judge Deborah Chasanow asked Liang after Assistant U.S. Attorney
David Salem described the scheme in court.  “I agree,” said Liang, who declined to comment after the
hearing.  The government will likely seek a sentence in the range of
70 to 87 months while Liang will urge a range of 57 to 71
months, according to the agreement.  From July 2006 to March 2011, Liang, 57, bought and sold
stock in more than 25 companies based on inside information from
the FDA, according to a charging document. As part of his plea,
Liang agreed to forfeit almost $3.8 million in bank and
brokerage accounts and property, including his home in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  ‘Shocking Abuse’  “In a shocking abuse of trust, Mr. Liang exploited his
position as a chemist in the FDA’s Office of New Drug Quality
Assessment to cash in, using the accounts of relatives and
acquaintances to hide his illegal trading,” Assistant Attorney
General  Lanny Breuer , who oversees the  Justice Department ’s
Criminal Division, said in an e-mailed statement. “Now, like
many others on  Wall Street  and elsewhere, he is facing the
significant consequences of trading stocks on inside
information.”  In an interview, Liang’s lawyer, Andrew Carter, said his
client submitted a resignation letter to the FDA. He said he
didn’t know when it was sent. “Whether they’ve acted on it, I
don’t know,” Carter said.  Erica Jefferson, a spokeswoman for the agency, said Liang’s
resignation letter was received Sept. 9 and became effective
that day.  “The FDA fully cooperated with the investigation and has
begun taking steps to prevent this type of activity from
happening again,” Jefferson said in an e-mailed statement.  Liang and his son Andrew were initially charged in March
with conspiracy,  wire fraud  and securities fraud.  Son’s Guilty Plea  Andrew Liang pleaded guilty last month to possession of
child pornography found in the course of the fraud
investigation. He faces as long as 10 years in prison plus a
$250,000 fine when he is sentenced in December. He must also
register as a sex offender.  The securities case against Andrew Liang was dismissed at
the request of prosecutors.  The Securities and Exchange Commission, in a parallel civil
lawsuit also in Greenbelt, said Cheng Yi Liang traded in smaller
developmental drug companies, whose stock prices would be more
likely to be affected significantly by government decisions. He
gained more than $1 million trading stock of  Vanda
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VNDA) , a Rockville, Maryland, firm that rose more
than sevenfold a day after the FDA cleared sales of its
schizophrenia drug Fanapt in May 2009, according to the lawsuit.  Liang, an FDA employee since 1996, worked in the drug
evaluation unit since at least 2001. He had access to nonpublic
records of the review process for each drug examined by the
office, prosecutors said.  Stock Purchases  He profited from  share purchases  ahead of 19 positive
announcements and on short sales before six negative decisions,
the SEC said. He also avoided losses by selling stock before two
other negative decisions, the agency said. His average profit on
each announcement was $135,015, according to the lawsuit.  Liang made the trades using his home computer or an Apple
iPad, according to the agreement.  He made about $380,000 in advance of a Jan. 21 announcement
that Newton, Massachusetts-based  Clinical Data Inc. (CLDA) ’s Viibryd, a
drug to treat a depressive disorder, had been approved,
prosecutors said.  Chasanow said today that she has ordered that the pending
SEC case and forfeiture action be transferred from another judge
to her courtroom.  The cases are U.S. v. Chen Yi Liang, 11-cr-0530, and U.S.
v. Andrew Liang, 11-cr-00501, U.S. District Court, District of
Maryland (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 