-- 
Fed Presidents Differ Over Central Bank’s Ability to Generate More Growth

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-10-18T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/fed-presidents-differ-over-central-bank-ability-to-boost-growth.html
Two Federal Reserve policy makers
differed over the central bank’s ability to boost growth, with
one calling for more action to fight a “massive” shortfall in
employment and the other saying further steps would probably
serve only to stoke inflation.  “If we sit on our hands as the economy withers relative to
our mandate, then we could take a huge hit to our credibility,”
said  Charles Evans , head of the Chicago Fed, invoking the damage
to the central bank’s reputation during the Great Depression.
The Richmond Fed’s  Jeffrey Lacker  said there’s little more the
Fed can do because “the strength of this recovery is going to
be relatively independent of our monetary policy choices.”  The contrasting views reflect the depth of disagreement on
the policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  as Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  leads efforts to reduce an  unemployment rate 
stuck near 9 percent two years after the end of the recession.
The last two decisions to ease policy drew three dissents, the
most opposition in almost 19 years.  The two policy makers, in separate speeches yesterday,
offered contrasting views of Fed moves so far. “I believe we
have done the right thing,” Evans said in a speech in  Detroit .
Lacker, speaking in Salisbury, Maryland, said he disagreed with
the Fed’s decision last month to lengthen the maturities of the
bonds in its portfolio in a bid to lower long-term interest
rates.  The level of disagreement among policy makers is “no cause
for alarm,” Lacker said.  ‘Scientific Uncertainty’  “Economists can reach different conclusions, based on
legitimate scientific uncertainty about the structure of the
economy and current economic conditions,” he said. “In my
experience as an FOMC participant since 2004, the Committee has
functioned with an exceptional level of collegiality.”  Bernanke is scheduled to speak about Fed policy today at an
event held at the  Federal Reserve Bank of Boston .  Data released since the Sept. 20-21 meeting show American
employers added 103,000 jobs in September, easing concern the
economy is tipping into another recession. Retail sales in
September rose by the most in seven months, according to
Commerce Department figures.  By contrast, confidence among consumers unexpectedly
dropped this month and purchases of new homes declined to a six-
month low in August.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.9 percent to
1,200.86 at the close in  New York  yesterday, while the yield on
the 10-year Treasury note declined nine basis points to 2.16
percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Tolerate Higher Inflation  Evans, unlike most of his Fed colleagues, has repeatedly
stated a willingness to tolerate higher inflation as long as it
pushes down the jobless level. The Chicago Fed president said
the central bank might want to also consider “reevaluating”
its progress toward policy goals at each FOMC meeting, along
with the rate of asset purchases.  Minutes of the FOMC’s September gathering said a number of
participants saw large-scale asset purchases as “potentially a
more potent tool that should be retained as an option in the
event that further policy action to support a stronger economic
recovery was warranted.”  Most FOMC participants favored providing the public with
more information on the central bank’s goals and how those
objectives influence the Fed’s decisions, according to minutes
of the meeting, released on Oct. 12.  Fed officials also “saw advantages” to tying the Fed’s
near-zero  interest rates  to more specific changes in the
economy, according to the meeting minutes.  Cut Borrowing Costs  The committee decided at last month’s gathering to replace
$400 billion of Treasuries in the central bank’s portfolio with
longer-term debt to reduce borrowing costs. Three officials
dissented. Policy makers also chose to reinvest maturing housing
debt into mortgage-backed securities, partly to keep the Fed’s
Treasury holdings from getting too large.  The Fed’s so-called “Operation Twist” plan is a “very
important” way of demonstrating a willingness to be
accommodative, without expanding the central bank’s balance
sheet, Evans, 53, said at a dinner held by the Michigan Council
on Economic Education. “If it’s not doing enough, we need to do
more.”  By contrast, Lacker, appearing at the Salisbury-Wicomico
Economic Development Annual Meeting, said the “factors likely
to be restraining growth -- from empty houses to prospective tax
rates -- are nonmonetary and largely beyond the power of the
central bank to offset through easier monetary conditions.”  Add Stimulus  “History has repeatedly demonstrated that if a central
bank attempts to add monetary stimulus to offset nonmonetary
disturbances to growth, the result is higher inflation,” the
Richmond Fed chief said.  Lacker’s opposition to further monetary easing aligns him
with Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota ,  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas  and  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia, who
dissented from the decision to launch Operation Twist.  Lacker, 56, is a former head of research at the Richmond
Fed and oversees a district that is home to the biggest U.S.
lender by assets, Bank of America Corp., based in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina . He became president of the Richmond Fed in
August 2004.  Evans has led the Chicago Fed since September 2007 and is
one of only two regional Fed presidents who vote on the FOMC
every other year, along with  Sandra Pianalto , president of the
Cleveland Fed.  The regional bank chief has been among the FOMC’s strongest
supporters of monetary stimulus since last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Salisbury,  Maryland  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  