-- 
Fed Directors Saw ‘Moderate or Flat’ Economic Growth Last Month

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-10-18T18:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/fed-directors-saw-moderate-or-flat-economic-growth-last-month.html
Most directors at the  Federal
Reserve ’s regional banks saw the economy growing moderately or
not at all last month, according to minutes of Board of
Governors’ meetings in September.  The directors of the 12 banks “remained cautious about the
prospects for economic growth in light of generally weak
incoming data on employment and production,” according to the
minutes released in  Washington  today, which summarize
discussions at the regional banks. “Most directors described
overall economic activity as moderate or flat, and many saw the
outlook as unusually uncertain.”  The minutes covered three meetings in August and September
to discuss the Fed’s discount rate, which it charges on
emergency loans to banks. On Oct. 12, banks were borrowing $70
million in primary credit from the Fed’s discount window.  A separate set of minutes for the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s Sept. 20-21 discussion about monetary policy were
released last week. The FOMC next meets in Washington on Nov. 1-
2.  “Several directors cited heightened caution and restraint
by consumers and businesses as a result of recent volatility in
stock prices, continued uncertainty about European and U.S.
fiscal matters, and concern about general economic conditions,”
the minutes said. “Directors also noted the ongoing drag on the
economy from sluggish employment growth and the still-depressed
housing sector.”  Rate Recommendations  Recommendations about changing the discount rate, which has
been at 0.75 percent since February 2010, were the same as in
previous meetings at 11 of the Fed’s 12 banks. Ten banks have
preferred no change while the Kansas City Fed recommended
raising the rate to 1 percent.2  At the Aug. 22 and Sept. 6 meetings, the  Dallas  Fed
recommended leaving the rate unchanged. It requested an increase
at the Sept. 19 meeting.  Aside from Dallas, the other banks have not changed their
recommendation on the rate since at least June 2010. The Fed’s
Washington-based Board of Governors expressed “no sentiment”
for a change and kept it at 0.75 percent last month.  Discount-rate changes are requested by boards of directors
at the 12 regional Fed banks. The requests are subject to final
review and determination by the  Fed Board , which consists of the
central bank’s five Washington-based governors. They review
requests about every two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  