-- 
Florida Lawmakers Weigh Rehabilitation Programs to Shorten Prison Time

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-10-18T18:49:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/florida-lawmakers-weigh-rehabilitation-programs-to-shorten-prison-time.html
Florida  lawmakers, facing a
projected deficit next year of as much as $2.3 billion, are
considering bills expanding prisoner rehabilitation to shorten
prison time and lower costs.  A House subcommittee passed two bills today, one of which
provides drug treatment as an alternative to incarceration and
reduces jail time for some nonviolent criminals. A Senate
committee heard proposals to curtail recidivism and shorten
stays by expanding in-prison treatment.  “When we have a drug offender that we can rehabilitate, me
as a taxpayer, I don’t want to continue paying for them to sit
just for the sake of punishment,” Representative  James Grant , a
Tampa Republican, said in Tallahassee.  Florida, whose prison population has grown by more than 40
percent since 2000, is not alone considering lower prison costs
as states face projected budget gaps that exceed  $45 billion .  Georgia’s Legislature  created  a council on a criminal
justice overhaul that will make recommendations to Republican
Governor Nathan Deal by Nov. 1. California counties are working
to expand rehabilitation as the state shifts 33,000 inmates to
local jails to help cut what was a $26 billion projected
deficit.  Florida’s first-term Republican Governor  Rick Scott 
campaigned in November on reducing the state’s $2.4 billion
prison budget by a cumulative $1 billion over seven years, in
part by expanding rehabilitation.  Budget Cut  This year, the Corrections Department’s operating budget
was cut by more than $200 million, or 9 percent,  according  to a
website created by the Florida Legislature.  The House Appropriations Committee was told earlier this
month that the  budget deficit  will likely range from $1.2
billion to $2.3 billion next year as tax collections miss
projections.  Providing rehabilitation as an alternative to prison time
will cost the state “less than half” the current expense and
will reduce recidivism, said Ari Abraham Porth, a Coral Springs
Democrat who sponsored one of the House bills.  Florida inmates are now “turned out of prison with $100
and a bus ticket,” he said at the committee meeting. “There
aren’t appropriate rehabilitation programs presently.”  A House  analysis  of the bill said it “will likely” reduce
state spending. A report by Florida TaxWatch, a Tallahassee-
based nonprofit researcher, said the  savings  were likely to be
“substantial.” Neither put a dollar figure on potential
reductions.  Pre-Trail Programs  The House subcommittee also passed a bill that would expand
pre-trial substance-abuse programs, potentially saving local
governments money by reducing the number of drug offenders who
serve time, according to an  analysis  of the legislation.  Other measures, such as cutting time children spend in
detention and expanding work-release programs, are also likely
to save money, Robert Weissert, vice president for research at
Florida TaxWatch, told the Senate Committee on Criminal Justice.  “If Florida’s prison population decreased to only the
fiscal year 2000 levels, Florida taxpayers would save more than
$600 million,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Tallahassee at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  