-- 
FMS Bad Bank Unwinds 8.7% of Assets Amid Greek Writedowns

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-10-18T13:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/fms-wertmanagement-total-assets-301-8-billion-euros-as-june-30.html
FMS Wertmanagement, the bad bank in
charge of winding down assets from  Germany ’s Hypo Real Estate
Holding AG, cut its portfolio by 8.7 percent in the nine months
since its inception and wrote down the value of Greek holdings.  The nominal value of the portfolio to be unwound declined
to 160.5 billion euros ($220 billion), while total assets fell
9.4 percent to 301.8 billion euros in the first half of the
year, the Munich-based company said in an e-mailed statement
today. Writedowns on Greek bonds and loans were 808 million
euros in the first half, FMS said.  FMS, which is fully owned by the German state, said last
month it will participate in a sovereign-debt swap aimed at
reducing  Greece ’s borrowing burden for 13 bonds with a nominal
volume of 975 million euros. FMS is in charge of winding down
about 176 billion euros in assets of  Hypo Real Estate , the
German commercial property lender that almost collapsed during
the financial crisis when its Dublin-based Depfa Bank Plc unit
couldn’t raise financing.  Not considering the writedowns on the Greece portfolio, FMS
would have generated a profit of 118 million euros from ordinary
business activities in the first half, it said.  Greek Writedowns  “We are pleased with the positive development,” said
Christian Bluhm, the FMS management board member responsible for
credit risks. “But we were unable to escape the effects of the
international sovereign debt crisis, which intensified
dramatically in the year’s first six months, especially the
problems in Greece.”  FMS said it wrote down all Greek securities and loans with
end-of-2020 maturities to 79 percent of their nominal value in
accordance with the requirements of the IDW Institute of Public
Auditors in Germany. It held Greek  government bonds  with a
nominal value of 7.2 billion euros, as well as 1.6 billion euros
of loans and bonds of Greek issuers at the end of June.  FMS is a part of Germany’s Federal Agency for Financial
Market Stabilization. It has a mandate to wind down the assets
over a period of 10 years, and to minimize losses tied to the
sale of the securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  