-- 
Forint to Gain Versus Koruna on Central Bank, DZ Bank Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-10-18T15:39:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/forint-to-gain-from-record-low-versus-koruna-dz-bank-says-1-.html
Investors should buy the forint  and
sell the koruna as  Hungary ’s currency is likely to strengthen
against the  Czech Republic ’s on central bank support,  DZ Bank  AG
said.  The koruna may depreciate to 8.80 per 100 forint in two
weeks, Felix Herrmann, a Frankfurt-based economist at DZ Bank,
wrote in a research report today. The koruna was little changed
at 8.3748 per forint by 5:27 p.m. in Prague.  “Further downward potential for the forint against the
koruna is very limited since the Hungarian central bank decided
to prevent the euro-forint pair from climbing above 300,”
Herrmann wrote.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has allowed lenders to access the
central bank’s foreign-currency reserve from this month to help
offset losses from a law allowing foreign-currency mortgage
holders to repay their loans below-market exchange rates. The
central bank likely prevented a speculative attack against the
forint by opening up the reserves, Governor Andras Simor said in
an interview on public television M1 late yesterday.  The prospect of Hungarian policy makers increasing interest
rates may give further support to the forint, according to
Herrmann.  Hungarian policy makers last month kept the benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 6 percent for an eighth month after
considering a 25 basis-point increase.  ‘Extraordinary’  The Czech central bank, whose main interest rate is at a
record-low 0.75 percent, “doesn’t prefer” to influence the
koruna directly on the foreign-exchange market and would conduct
such operations only in case of “extraordinary” currency
moves, Governor Miroslav Singer said today in an online
interview on the Prague-based Patria.cz news website.  The koruna is poised to extend losses against the euro as
the central bank may cut interest rates and weaken the Czech
currency to curb a slowdown in the export-oriented economy,
Michal Dybula and Bartosz Pawlowski, strategists at BNP Paribas
SA in Warsaw and  London , respectively, said in an e-mailed
report today.  Strategists at Societe Generale SA and UniCredit SpA last
week also said the koruna may underperform regional peers as the
central bank is unlikely to support the currency.  The forint depreciated 0.6 percent against the euro to
298.10 for a fourth day of losses, extending its slide in the
second half of the year to 11 percent. The koruna weakened 0.5
percent to 24.954 against the European common currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  