-- 
France’s Ratings Pressure Handicaps Sarkozy as Europe Crisis Talks Climax

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-10-19T09:25:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/france-s-ratings-pressure-handicaps-sarkozy-in-eu-crisis-talks.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
heads into decisive talks on  Europe ’s debt crisis handicapped by
concern that France’s top credit rating is at risk.  While Sarkozy’s banks have the most to lose if a potential
Greek default triggers contagion, moves to expand rescue efforts
or recapitalize banks at government expense add to pressure on
French finances. A rating cut may also hinder Sarkozy’s re-
election bid in 2012.  “It’s a classic trap of contagion that is now closing in
on France,” Philippe Martin, an economics professor at the
Institute of Political Studies in Paris, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “This is very dangerous. Everyone in the government
has insisted that everything they do is with the objective of
keeping the triple-A. If they lose it, it’s a disaster.”  The stakes for Sarkozy show how the crisis that began in
 Greece  in 2009 has evolved into what world leaders say is the
the main threat to the global economy. Group of 20 finance
ministers set a deadline of an Oct. 23 European summit as the
deadline for fleshing out a strategy to lay concerns to rest.  France, Europe’s second-biggest economy, is under pressure,
Moody’s Investors Service said Oct. 17, because the global
financial and economic crisis has made its debt measures the
weakest among its Aaa rated peers, including Germany and the
U.K. The company said its statement was a market update and not
a rating action.  French Spreads  The yield on France’s 10-year bonds climbed 9 basis points
today to 3.23 percent. That put the difference with German
equivalents at 115 basis points, the widest since 1992 based on
Bloomberg generic prices.  Shares of French banks rose, snapping a four-day losing
streak.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, the biggest lender, has lost 35 percent
so far this year;  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, the second largest, has
shed 51 percent.  French banks have the most at stake in  Italy , the third-
largest euro economy, which needed the  European Central Bank  to
start buying its debt in August amid a market rout. They’re also
the most exposed to other debt strapped countries.  At the end of 2010, French banks carried $392.6 billion in
Italian government and private debt, according to data from
Basel-based Bank for International Settlements. Their combined
exposure to  Spain ,  Portugal , Ireland and Greece stood at $253.8
billion at the end of 2010, according to BIS.  Brussels Summit  The Brussels summit will address measures to recapitalize
banks, decide the scale of Greek debt writedowns, increase the
effectiveness of the euro region’s bailout fund and seek ways to
better coordinate economic and financial policy.  While German officials have sought to temper expectations
that a comprehensive strategy would be developed, French Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin  was forced to defend his government’s
finances. France will do “everything” to maintain its top debt
ratings, Baroin said yesterday.  While debt is about 80 percent of gross domestic product in
both France and  Germany , the French  budget deficit  will be more
than three times Germany’s this year.  The changing dynamic between Sarkozy and his German
counterpart,  Angela Merkel , was illustrated at their most recent
meeting, on Oct. 9 in Berlin, when the French leader didn’t
repeat his determination to prevent a Greek default, signaling
his willingness to accept an outcome that Merkel has discussed.  Merkel-Sarkozy  Still, Sarkozy’s bind also implicates Merkel, the biggest
contributor to bailout efforts and Europe’s dominant politician,
said  Nicolas Jabko , an associate professor of political economy
at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore.  “Merkel needs Sarkozy as a partner to legitimize
everything she does in Europe,” said Jabko. “She needs to make
sure that nothing appears as an exercise in German hegemony.”  It may also force Germany to accept spending more to arrest
the crisis, Martin said.  “It will help focus Germany’s attention on the fact there
is a liquidity and confidence problem on the markets and
convince them that they absolutely have to take decisions,” he
said. “Sarkozy can say ‘look at me. We’re next. You have to do
something.’”  Domestically, the threat of a downgrade hurts Sarkozy, who
faces Socialist Francois Hollande in presidential elections next
April, with polls showing Sarkozy as the likely loser.  “One of Sarkozy’s few claims to a successful presidency is
being the savoir of  France ’s image on the global and European
stage,” said Jabko. “A downgrade would put that at risk,
especially if it involves France having to slash spending in an
election year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  