-- 
G-20 Should Focus on Curbing Food Speculation, Le Maire Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-10-18T10:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/g-20-should-focus-on-curbing-food-speculation-le-maire-says-1-.html
Group of 20 officials should work on
controlling speculation in agriculture markets to smooth price
movements and make food cheaper, French Agriculture Minister
Bruno Le Maire said.  “I hope during the meeting in November we will have
concrete results regarding speculation in agriculture and food
markets,” Le Maire said today at a press conference in  Rome ,
referring to a gathering of G-20 leaders on Nov. 3-4 in Cannes,
France. “We simply want to improve the functionality of the
markets.  Food security  should be a priority for the G-20.”  Food-price volatility may increase because of a stronger
link with energy markets and the frequency of weather shocks,
the  United Nations ’ Food and Agriculture Organization said in a
report on Oct. 10. A UN gauge of 55 raw materials has slid 5.1
percent from February’s record. Food prices last month dropped 2
percent from August after commodity prices declined.  Agriculture ministers and other G-20 officials need to find
ways to increase food security such as helping  developing
countries  become more self-sufficient in producing raw
materials, Le Maire said.  “We need to change our approach against hunger,” he said.
“The goal is to put into place this political revolution that
says developing countries should be independent in the
development of food.”  Production Figures  The Agricultural Market Information System, or AMIS,
developed this year to make figures on commodity production,
consumption and stockpiles more available globally will boost
food security, Le Maire said. Partnerships between governments
and private companies also will spur food production, according
to the minister.  “We shouldn’t believe that states will have enough in
their budgets to fund development in poor countries,” he said.
“People are saying, ‘Why do you want to involve private
companies? You’re calling in the wolf to eat the sheep.’ Not at
all. I want to call in all the stakeholders in world  food
production . I’m looking for effective solutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 