-- 
Gasoline Futures Gain as Equities Advance, Dollar Weakens

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-10-18T19:28:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/gasoline-fluctuates-as-equities-advance-dollar-weakens.html
Gasoline gained for the fifth time
in six days as equities advanced and the dollar retreated,
increasing the investment appeal of commodities.  Futures rose, erasing an earlier loss, as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of stocks increased 1.2 percent at 2:47 p.m. in
 New York . The dollar was little changed against the euro from an
earlier increase of 0.6 percent after  Germany  Chancellor Angela
Merkel said an upcoming European summit will mark an important
step in solving the euro-region debt crisis.  “We’re tracking the stock market very closely again,”
said  James Cordier , portfolio manager at OptionSellers.com in
Tampa,  Florida . “And there’s a little bit less pessimism coming
out of  Europe  after a new statement from Germany.”  Gasoline for November delivery rose 0.4 cent to settle at
$2.7469 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , after
swinging between a low of $2.6822 and a high of $2.7541. The
front-month contract has gained 3.8 percent since Oct. 7.  Futures were down much of the day, falling 2.2 percent
earlier on concern the European debt crisis will slow global
growth and as an East Coast refinery started a main production
unit after repairs.  Moody’s Investors Service said  France ’s top credit rating
is under pressure as euro-region leaders seek to resolve the
region’s debt crisis. Sunoco Inc. restarted a fluid catalytic
cracker at the Marcus Hook refinery in Pennsylvania, which
serves the New York Harbor market.  “It’s the news coming out of the euro zone that is
affecting products because you don’t know if they’re really
going to come up with a solution over there,” said Fred
Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in New York.  Gasoline Supplies  Stockpiles of gasoline probably fell 1.5 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of 13 analysts in a
survey by Bloomberg News. Supplies of heating oil and diesel
also declined 1.5 million barrels, according to the survey.  The Energy Department is scheduled to report last week’s
inventories at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  November-delivery heating oil rose 1.41 cents, or 0.5
percent, to settle at $3.0277 a gallon on the Nymex.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.7
cent to $3.469 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. It was
the eighth consecutive increase as prices rose to the highest
level since Sept. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  