-- 
Geithner Defends Performance of Small Business Lending Fund

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-10-18T20:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/geithner-says-passage-of-jobs-act-will-help-small-businesses.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told senators today that the Small Business Lending
Fund had been successful even if it was smaller than envisioned.  The program closed Sept. 27, having distributed just more
than $4 billion of its $30 billion to 332 community banks
nationwide. In total, 933 institutions applied for $11.8 billion
in funding. Treasury has blamed the low participation on a lack
of interested and qualified applicants.  “You can’t force banks to lend, but for every bank that
got capital in this program they have more capacity to lend than
they otherwise would have,” Geithner told members of the Senate
Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee about the fund,
which was created a year ago.  Under questioning from senators, Geithner said he shared
their frustration that the program was not as extensive as had
been hoped. He said the approval process took time to implement
and depended on bank regulators, adding that Treasury had legal
constraints on communicating with institutions when applications
were denied. Treasury now has arrangements with supervisors to
share with banks reasons for refusals, he said.  The program provided federal capital to community banks
with less than $10 billion in assets and included incentives to
increase loans to small companies to stimulate growth.  ‘Urgent Times’  Republican Senators criticized the results of the program.
Senate Small Business Committee ranking member Olympia Snowe, a
Republican from  Maine , said she is concerned the administration
“failed to create the kinds of conditions that are warranted in
these urgent times.”  “When one remedy after another fails to solve the crisis
that has mushroomed into what is now a state of catastrophe,
it’s long past time for the alarm bells to sound,” Snowe said.  Geithner said banks applied for only one-third of the
program’s capacity and of those, only half of applicants were
eligible. The program was slow to get off the ground, “because
we’ve been very careful to make sure these investments came with
strong protections to protect the taxpayer’s interest,” he
said.  Snowe and other Republicans also criticized the way banks
used the program to refinance funding provided by the Troubled
Asset Relief Program. KBW Bank Index has estimated that $2.2
billion of capital by 137 TARP recipients were replaced by
financing from the Small Business Lending Fund, representing 67
percent of the fund’s investments.  Foreclosures ‘Still Terrible’  Geithner said the program was designed to be used to
refinance TARP funds and that the level of use was expected by
Treasury.  Geithner fielded questions on a range of topics, including
regulatory and tax reform, the housing bubble and solutions for
homeowners facing foreclosure.  The foreclosure situation “is still terrible and there is
no other way to say it,” he said. “The major mortgage
servicers are doing an unacceptably bad job in serving
customers.” The Obama Administration is working to put in place
a program that should be laid out “in the next few days” that
would allow “many more Americans to refinance” and take
advantage of low  interest rates .  In his prepared statement and testimony, Geithner urged
approval of the $447 billion jobs bill to boost the economy.  “I join the president in urging this Congress to work
together and take action -- to support the specific provisions
in the American Jobs Act, which both Democrats and Republicans
have embraced in the past,” Geithner said.  “The government
needs to act to strengthen overall growth to improve the
conditions for our small businesses, so that they have the
confidence and the resources to put Americans across the country
back to work.”  President  Barack Obama  has said he is willing to work with
Republicans in Congress to pass parts of jobs plan, which fell
short of the 60 votes needed to advance from the Senate on Oct.
11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  