-- 
Geo Bond Plunge Leads Longest Corporate Slump in Five Years: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-10-18T21:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/geo-bond-plunge-leads-longest-corporate-slump-in-five-years-mexico-credit.html
Mexican corporate bonds are posting
their longest losing streak in five years as the slowdown in the
U.S., the Latin American country’s biggest trade partner, erodes
demand for debt sold by companies from Corp. Geo SAB to
Financiera Independencia SAB.  The 2.1 percent loss in Mexican corporate dollar debt over
the past 30 days is the third straight month of declines, the
most since the period ended June 17, 2006, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Brazilian companies’ bonds slumped 1.3 percent in
the past month, the second consecutive month of losses.
Emerging-market corporate debt also fell for a second month,
losing 1.9 percent over the past 30 days.  Concern  Latin America ’s second-largest economy will be
among the countries most affected by the flagging recovery in
the U.S. is driving up borrowing costs for Mexican companies.
The average yield on Mexican corporate debt climbed 39 basis
points, or 0.39 percentage point, in the past three months to
6.69 percent, according to JPMorgan.  “The amount of capital flows and trade flows between the
two economies left Mexico more vulnerable to underperformance
than other large Latin countries that have less of a direct
connectedness to the  U.S. economy ,”  Michael Roche , an emerging-
market strategist at MF Global, said in a telephone interview
from  New York .  Yields on Mexican dollar bonds due in 2020 have climbed
four basis points in the past month to 3.67 percent, according
to Bloomberg data. The securities returned 0.4 percent during
that period.  Growth Outlook  Yields on debt due in 2020 from Geo, the  Mexico  City-based
homebuilder, have surged 215 basis points in the past three
months to 10.31 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on microfinance lender Financiera
Independencia’s notes due in 2015 soared 383 basis points during
the same period to 11.64 percent.  Geo’s communications director Alejandro Haiducovich
declined to comment. Financiera Independencia’s investor
relations official Vicente Gutierrez declined to comment
immediately.  Mexico’s gross domestic product will rise 3.8 percent this
year, compared with an increase of 5.4 percent in 2010,
according to the median survey of 19 economists by Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit. They forecast an expansion of 4.38 percent
in a June survey. The U.S. economy, the buyer of 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports, will expand 1.7 percent this year after
growing 3 percent in 2010, according to the median estimate of
82 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Exaggerated’ Declines  Mexican corporate bonds are underperforming because of
their “overall connection or correlation to U.S. markets,”
Bevan Rosenbloom, a credit strategist with Citigroup Inc. in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “Mexico will always be
tied to U.S. growth.”  Guillermo Rodriguez , who helps manage about $5.5 billion at
Corp. Actinver SAB, said he may buy bonds sold by companies
including Financiera Independencia and Geo because their price
declines are unwarranted.  “The movement has been exaggerated,” Rodriguez said in a
telephone interview. “There’s no reason for them to be punished
so much.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points
to 229 at 4:51 p.m. in Mexico City, according to JP Morgan.  Peso Slump  The peso rose 0.8 percent to 13.3809 per  U.S. dollar . It’s
down 12.4 percent in the past three months, the worst-performing
currency in Latin America.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December fell three basis points today to 4.67
percent, indicating traders expect the central bank to raise the
rate that month.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years dropped three basis points to 151, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Mexico’s GDP shrank 6.1 percent in 2009, the most since
1995 and the second-worst contraction of the economies tracked
by Bloomberg after  Russia , as a housing industry collapse sank
the global economy into recession. U.S. GDP contracted 3.5
percent in 2009.  “The Mexican economy is so linked to the U.S. that any
negative effect in the U.S. has immediate repercussions in
Mexico, more strongly than in other economies that don’t have as
much dependence on the American economy,” Gaston Guerrero, who
helps manage about $300 million of emerging-market debt at
Precise Securities, including bonds sold by Financiera
Independencia, said in a telephone interview from  Los Angeles .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  