-- 
German Investor Confidence Drops to Three-Year Low as Debt Crisis Prevails

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-10-18T09:52:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/german-investor-confidence-drops-to-three-year-low.html
German investor confidence fell to
the lowest in almost three years in October as  Europe ’s debt
crisis threatened to infect banks and curb economic growth.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months in advance, declined to minus
48.3 from minus 43.3 in September. That’s the lowest since
November 2008. Economists expected a drop to minus 45, according
to the median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Stocks and the euro erased gains yesterday after the German
government said European leaders won’t deliver a complete
solution to the region’s debt crisis at an Oct. 23 summit. While
 Germany ’s Bundesbank yesterday predicted “strong” growth in
the third quarter thanks to a rebound in industrial production
and private consumption, it said the outlook has deteriorated.  The ZEW reading “is consistent with a recession in Germany
and the  euro zone  in the fourth quarter and the first quarter of
next year,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Joh
Berenberg Gossler & Co. in London. “Unless a solution to the
crisis is found, confidence is unlikely to return quickly and
the recession may become deeper and more protracted.”  ZEW’s gauge of current conditions fell to 38.4 from 43.6.
The euro extended its decline after the report and traded at
$1.3679 at 11:50 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  While Germany’s benchmark DAX share index has dropped 20
percent since the end of July, it has gained in the past two
weeks. SAP AG, the world’s largest maker of business-management
software, on Oct. 14 reported third-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates.  Reasons for Optimism  “There are reasons to be a bit more optimistic,” said
 Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “Stock
markets are climbing, politicians are finally grasping the
nettle, the  European Central Bank  is flooding markets with cash,
and the  U.S. economy  is looking a bit better.”  Euro-area governments say they are committed to putting an
end to the turmoil that has gripped the region for the past two
years. Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers
concluded weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of an emerging
plan to avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion.
They set the Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in Brussels as
the deadline for it to be delivered.  Still, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has made it clear
that “dreams that are taking hold again now that with this
package everything will be solved and everything will be over on
Monday won’t be able to be fulfilled,” Steffen Seibert,
Merkel’s chief spokesman, said at a briefing in Berlin yesterday.
The search for an end to the crisis “surely extends well into
next year,” he said.  Forecast Cut  Germany’s top economic institutes on Oct. 13 cut their 2012
forecast for growth by more than half as the crisis weighs on
banks and spending, though they said Europe’s largest economy
will probably avoid recession.  Growth will slow to 0.8 percent next year from 2.9 percent
in 2011, the institutes said in a bi-annual independent report
commissioned by the government. In April, the group forecast 2
percent growth for 2012.  Deutsche Bank AG on Oct. 4 scrapped its profit forecast and
announced 500 job cuts and further writedowns on Greek bond
holdings. Vossloh AG, a manufacturer of railroad equipment, cut
its full-year sales forecast on Sept. 29, citing slower business
in  China  and a “sharp reduction” in orders from southern
Europe.  “Businesses have again scaled back their expectations and
the inflow of new orders, especially from abroad, has lessened
noticeably,” the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said yesterday.
Industrial companies will find it “difficult” to maintain
output over the next six months amid weaker demand, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  