-- 
Ghana May Keep Benchmark Interest Rate at 12.5% After Cedi Drops

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-10-18T09:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/ghana-may-keep-benchmark-interest-rate-at-12-5-after-cedi-drops.html
Ghana ’s central bank will probably
leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged tomorrow, after
lowering it twice this year, as a weaker currency threatens to
reignite price pressures in Africa’s newest oil producer.  The Bank of Ghana will keep the policy rate at 12.5
percent, according to nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
decision will be announced at 11 a.m. local time in the capital,
Accra.  Inflation, which was unchanged at 8.4 percent for a third
consecutive month in September, may accelerate after the cedi
slumped 7.2 percent against the dollar since Aug. 1, boosting
import costs. The central bank kept its key rate unchanged at
its last Monetary Policy Committee meeting on Sept. 1.  “Risks have skewed to the upside from the recent weakness
in the cedi,” Stephen Bailey-Smith, sub-Saharan  Africa 
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in London, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “However, headline inflation
remains muted at 8.4 percent in September, providing adequate
comfort for the Bank of Ghana to remain on hold for the time
being.”  Price pressures are also rising after the government raised
water and electricity prices and boosted civil servants’ wages
by 20 percent in August. The economy, which earns most of its
foreign exchange from gold and cocoa exports, expanded a revised
16.4 percent in the second quarter from a year ago, the
statistics office said today.  “Future inflation risks are likely to make the Bank of
Ghana more wary of further easing,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa
research at Standard Chartered Plc in London, said in an e-mail.  Ghana became Africa’s newest oil exporter in December, when
production started at the offshore Jubilee oil field, which is
operated by U.K.-based  Tullow Oil Plc. (TLW)  Ghana is the world’s
second-largest cocoa producer after  Ivory Coast  and the
continent’s No. 2 gold producer after  South Africa .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Abidjan at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  