-- 
Glaxo Vaccine Reduces Malaria in African Children by Half

-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 
2011-10-18T18:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/glaxo-vaccine-cuts-malaria-in-african-children-by-more-than-half.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s experimental
malaria vaccine safely reduced illness in African infants by
more than half, a finding that’s a step toward its eventual use
in preventing the deaths of as many as 800,000 children a year.  The shot, known as RTS,S, would be the first vaccine
against malaria. It protected 56 percent of 6,000 children aged
five months to 17 months old from developing symptoms 12 months
after receiving their third dose and 47 percent from suffering
severe malaria, according to data from a final-stage study
published online today by the New England Journal of Medicine.  “The overall picture is this is a project that has the
potential to halve malaria in young children,” David
Schellenberg, one of the study’s authors and a professor of
malaria and international health at the  London School of Hygiene
and Tropical Medicine  in London, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s an enormous achievement which has taken decades and huge
amounts of resources.”  There were 225 million cases of malaria, a mosquito-borne
parasite of the human liver and blood, globally in 2009,
according to the  World Health Organization . The illness causes
fever, chills and flu-like symptoms, or shock, anemia and organ
damage if untreated. Malaria is prevented now with insecticide-
treated bed nets. Drugs are prescribed after infection.  About 781,000 people died from the disease in 2009, most of
them children under the age of five in sub-Saharan  Africa ,
according to the WHO.  Side Effects  The data published today are the first results from a study
of 15,460 children aged as young as six weeks in seven African
countries that began in March 2009.  Children were given either RTS,S or a non-malaria vaccine.
The number of serious adverse events was about the same in each
group, according to the researchers and London-based Glaxo.
Eighteen percent of those receiving the experimental vaccine
suffered a serious side effect, compared with 22 percent of
those receiving the control vaccine, Glaxo said.  Results from a smaller, mid-stage trial published in 2007
showed the vaccine reduced new malaria infections -- as
confirmed in blood tests -- in African infants by about two-
thirds.  The vaccine’s level of protection ultimately needs to be
higher, Eric Mouzin, a medical epidemiologist at the  Roll Back
Malaria Partnership , a network of malaria organizations based in
Geneva, said in a telephone interview.  “Ideally you would want a vaccine to be 100 percent
effective,” he said. “That’s not what we have at the moment.
It doesn’t mean we won’t get it one day.”  ‘Complete Non-Starter’  Another researcher,  Adrian Hill , director of the Jenner
Institute in Oxford,  England , said additional data in the study
raised a question about whether the vaccine would prove
worthwhile. The researchers found the vaccine was 35 percent
effective against severe malaria after 11 months in a combined
group of five- to 17-month-olds and six- to 12-week olds. That
suggests the vaccine won’t be cost-effective against severe
malaria in the younger group to whom it is designed to be given,
making it “a complete non-starter,” Hill said.  He predicted Glaxo’s vaccine would probably be superseded
by or used in combination with another within five years. Glaxo
and the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , which contributed to
the trial costs, aren’t emphasizing other vaccines to combat
malaria because they have focused their resources on  RTS ,S, Hill
said.  Gates Meeting  “We have better vaccines than RTS,S,” Hill said in a
telephone interview. “There are a lot of vaccines in the clinic
now that when combined with RTS,S get high levels of efficacy.
We could do better. Why wait five years for millions more
children to die?”  Meningitis, a bacterial infection of the membranes covering
the brain and the spinal cord, was reported more frequently in
the RTS,S-vaccinated group than in the control group, the
researchers wrote. The older children were 5.5 times more likely
to develop the illness and the younger children were four times
more likely, they said. There didn’t appear to be a link to
immunization, they said.  In an accompanying editorial, Nicholas J. White, a
professor of  tropical medicine  at Mahidol University in Bangkok,
wrote that the higher rate of meningitis in the RTS,S group
needed to be better understood.  No Explanation  “There seems to be no plausible explanation for this, and
it may well turn out to be a chance finding, but it cannot be
ignored,” White wrote.  The new findings were announced at a Gates Foundation
meeting of 300 malaria scientists, health researchers,
policymakers, advocates and government leaders in  Seattle . The
foundation, the world’s richest charitable fund, has contributed
more than $200 million toward the Malaria Vaccine Initiative of
PATH, a Seattle-based public health charity.  “This is proof that it is possible to create a vaccine
that is effective,” Microsoft Corp. Chairman  Bill Gates  said
today in a statement. “If further results show that the
effectiveness of RTS,S does not wane over time, it has the
potential to protect millions of children and save thousands of
lives.”  Glaxo has spent more than $300 million on developing and
testing the vaccine and expects to spend a further $50 million
to $100 million, the company said in a statement.  Seeking Approval  “This is a significant milestone on what has been a 25-
year journey to develop the RTS,S vaccine, a journey which at
the beginning many in the world believed was impossible,” Glaxo
Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  said today on a conference
call.  Glaxo aims to file for regulatory approval in 2014 and
bring the vaccine to market “as early as 2015,” Witty said. If
approved, the Geneva-based WHO has said it would decide by 2015
whether to include the shot among its recommended childhood
vaccines, which would enable it to be included in national
immunization programs.  Glaxo hasn’t disclosed what it plans to charge for RTS,S,
only that the eventual price would cover the cost of making it
plus 5 percent, which the company has said it would reinvest in
finding a second-generation malaria vaccine or vaccines for
other neglected tropical diseases.  Results of the trial in six- to 12-week-old infants are
expected by the end of 2012, Glaxo said. Researchers will follow
the children to determine how many become ill up to 30 months
after their third dose, to study the vaccine’s long-term
protective effects. Those results should be available by the end
of 2014, the company said.  “If the efficacy fell too low, you would have to do some
careful cost-effectiveness analysis,” Schellenberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in  London  at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  