-- 
Global Demand for U.S. Assets Climbs More Than Forecast Amid S&P Downgrade

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-10-18T18:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/global-demand-for-u-s-assets-rose-more-than-forecast-in-august.html
Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds
and other financial assets in August was greater than forecast
as financial-market turmoil following the downgrade of  U.S. debt 
by  Standard & Poor’s  boosted demand for Treasuries.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$57.9 billion, the highest since December 2010, compared with
net buying of $9.1 billion in July, the Treasury Department said
today in Washington. Including short-term securities such as
stock swaps, foreigners bought a net $89.6 billion, compared
with net sales of $52.4 billion the previous month.  Investors sought the safety of Treasuries as global stocks
declined following the decision by S&P to cut the top rating on
U.S. debt for the first time on Aug. 5. Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their AAA credit ratings on
Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama  signed a bill ending an
impasse with lawmakers over raising the nation’s debt ceiling.  “The flows into Treasuries really prove that, despite
S&P’s ratings downgrade, the dollar and Treasuries remain the
global safe-haven asset of choice,” said Guy LeBas, chief
fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia.  Instead of eroding the value of U.S. government debt, the
rating cut sparked financial-market turmoil that made Treasuries
and the world’s reserve currency favorites among investors, with
10-year note yields dropping to a record low 1.97 percent on
Aug. 18. The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
uses to track the greenback against the currencies of six major
U.S. trade partners, rose 0.3 percent to 74.147 in August,
ending a two-month slide.  Europe  Debt Crisis  Slowing U.S. growth and Europe’s debt crisis also drove
investors into the world’s biggest and most-liquid debt market
in August. Treasuries returned 2.8 percent, while the global
bond market gained 1.99 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
stocks fell 7 percent, the biggest slump since May 2010, and the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of commodities lost
1.8 percent.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.12 percent
at 12:46 p.m. in  New York  from 2.16 percent late yesterday.  Economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected long-term
financial assets would show net selling of $20 billion in
August, according to the median estimate. Four economists
participated.  ‘No Imminent Demise’  The data show that “there is no imminent demise of the
 U.S. dollar ” and are a reminder that the dollar “still has
some attractiveness despite the negatives that are still out
there,” said Joseph Lupton, global economist for JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in New York.  The data capture international purchases of government
notes and bonds, stocks, corporate debt and other securities.  Purchases of Treasury bonds and notes by the private sector
totaled $69.7 billion, while official foreign institutions sold
$9.6 billion.  “The big surprise was that there was such large private
buying” even as “the markets in August were going haywire,”
said  David Ader , head of government bond strategy at Stamford,
Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group LLC.  Total net foreign purchases of Treasury notes and bonds
came to $88.2 billion in August, compared with net sales of
$16.5 billion in July.  Treasury Bills  “The simple fact that inflows were as large as they were
was surprising,” LeBas said. The trend was more toward buying
of Treasury bills rather than long-term instruments, he said.  “As T-bills tend to be a substitute for cash holdings, the
increase likely reflects global investors’ interest in staying
liquid,” LeBas said.  China  remained the biggest foreign holder of  U.S.
Treasuries  in August after its holdings fell by $36.5 billion to
$1.137 trillion.  Hong Kong , counted separately from China,
decreased holdings by $4 billion to $107.9 billion.  Japan , the second-largest holder, increased its holdings in
August by $21.8 billion to $936.6 billion.  The biggest increase was from the United Kingdom, the
third-biggest holder; followed by  Switzerland , the Caribbean and
Japan. China and Thailand were the biggest net sellers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  