-- 
Global Regulators to Review Implementation of G-20 Agreements

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-18T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/global-regulators-to-review-implementation-of-g-20-agreements.html
Global regulators will review
annually how well financial regulation changes agreed to by the
Group of 20 countries are being applied, the Financial Stability
Board said.  “Priority areas for monitoring” include an overhaul of
minimum capital requirements for lenders agreed on last year by
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , and rules for banker
pay, the FSB said. Other priorities include putting in place
measures dealing with so-called shadow banks and trading
in over-the-counter derivatives.  The G-20 has tasked the FSB with coordinating an overhaul
of rules for the global financial system to prevent a repeat of
the financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. Lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic
have said that they will be vigilant in checking that rules are
implemented consistently.  Reports on “implementation progress in each of these areas
will be published at least once a year,” the FSB said. The
group plans to publish “country by country” information on
steps that have been taken to put the measures in place.  Andrea Enria, the chairman of the European Banking
Authority said last week that it is “essential” that the
updated  capital requirements  for banks, known as Basel III, are
applied in a similar way.  The FSB said earlier this month that some nations are
behind schedule in implementing measures to push trading of
over-the-counter derivatives onto regulated markets and through
clearinghouses, and that EU banks may be disadvantaged by
unequal implementation of pay rules.  The FSB brings together regulators, central bankers and
finance ministry officials from G-20 countries as well as
standard-setting bodies like the Basel committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Basel at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 