-- 
Goldman Sachs’s ‘Confusing’ Credit-Default Swaps Aren’t Wrong, Viniar Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-10-19T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/goldman-sachs-s-confusing-credit-default-swaps-aren-t-wrong-viniar-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Financial Officer David A. Viniar said the increase in the cost
to insure against a default by his company isn’t wrong. It’s
just “confusing.”  “I don’t believe markets are wrong,” Viniar said in
response to an analyst’s question during a conference call
yesterday after the company reported a quarterly loss. “I think
it’s confusing.”  Goldman Sachs executives including Viniar, 56, and Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, have
supported so-called mark-to-market accounting, arguing that
risk-management depends on valuing assets according to market
prices. In an April 2009  speech  to the Council of Institutional
Investors, Blankfein said New York-based Goldman Sachs
“wouldn’t know how to assess or manage risk if market prices
were not reflected on our books.”  Viniar said yesterday that Goldman Sachs executives have
been “confused and disappointed” by the rising prices on the
firm’s own credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge
against losses on the company’s debt or to speculate on its
creditworthiness.  “Given how strong our capital is, our liquidity is, the
maturity of our funding, the balance sheet, we kind of scratch
our heads a little bit,” Viniar said. “But it really hasn’t
affected anything other than our emotions. We don’t like seeing
it but it hasn’t had a big effect.”  Yield Increase  The cost of insuring against a default of Goldman Sachs’s
debt for five years climbed to 354 basis points, or $354,000 for
every $10 million of debt insured, at 3:31 p.m. yesterday, from
207 basis points on Sept. 1, according to prices provided by
London-based CMA. The cost rose above 430 basis points earlier
this month. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage
point.  The rise in the cost of CDS has been accompanied by an
increase in the yield on the company’s corporate debt, Viniar
said, adding that swings in the so-called cash market haven’t
been as large.  The extra yield over Treasuries that investors demand to
hold Goldman Sachs’s $3.85 billion of 3.625 percent bonds due in
February 2016 has climbed to 355 basis points from 268 basis
points on Sept. 1, according to Trace, the bond price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The
increase in debt yields and CDS prices have “had minimal impact
on our business, so far,” Viniar said.  The company booked $450 million of revenue in the third
quarter from so-called debt-valuation adjustments, Viniar said.
DVAs stem from a U.S. accounting rule that requires banks to
record gains when the value of their own debt has declined on
the theory that they could profit by buying it at a discount.  Goldman Sachs has about $5 billion of “plain vanilla”
debt maturing by year-end, Viniar said.  Given the rise in the company’s spreads, “we’ll decide as
the quarter goes on whether we want to replace it or we want to
wait for a better time,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 