-- 
Gold Falls as Commodities Decline Amid Global Slowdown Concern

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-10-18T14:03:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/gold-falls-as-commodities-decline-amid-global-slowdown-concern.html
Gold declined the most in three
weeks in  New York  as commodities slumped on concern that a
global economic slowdown will cut demand for raw materials.  China’s economy  in the third quarter grew at the slowest
pace since 2009, driving the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24
commodities down as much as 1.1 percent. Moody’s Investors
Service said France’s top credit rating is under pressure,
adding to concern European leaders will find it difficult to
resolve the region’s debt crisis. The dollar rose as much as 0.5
percent today against a basket of currencies.  “We are seeing some investors pull out of the commodities
pack,” James Dailey, who manages $215 million at TEAM Financial
Management LLC in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , said in a telephone
interview. “The global economic worries are looming on the
market.”  Gold futures for December delivery fell 2.5 percent to
$1,633.90 an ounce at 10:01 a.m. on the Comex in New York. A
close at that price would mean the biggest drop for a most-
active contract since Sept. 26.  Gold, which reached a record $1,923.70 on Sept. 6, fell 11
percent last month, the most since October 2008. Before today,
prices climbed 3.4 percent in October.  ‘Very Real Damage’  There is “very real damage” being done to gold as the
rally from last month’s low has been “disconcertingly tepid,”
economist  Dennis Gartman  wrote in his daily Gartman Letter.
“The bounce, if the market is truly healthy, should have been
even more vigorous. Tepid placidity all too often gives way to
vigorous selling sooner rather than later.”  Silver futures for December delivery dropped 2.9 percent to
$30.91 an ounce, declining for the second straight day.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  