-- 
Goldman Sachs Rises on Comeback Bets

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-10-18T20:16:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/goldman-sachs-posts-third-quarter-loss.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  rose 5.5
percent in New York trading as investors looked past a third-
quarter loss and focused on gains in trading revenue and
prospects for a rebound in underwriting and takeovers.  Revenue from trading stocks and bonds increased 16 percent
from the second quarter and the backlog of  investment-banking 
assignments climbed, Goldman Sachs said today. The third-quarter
loss, which was driven by markdowns on the value of the firm’s
own investments, was $393 million, or 84 cents a share, the New
York-based company said in a statement.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein,
57, has tied Goldman Sachs’s fortunes to trading, which
accounted for 62 percent of revenue in the first nine months of
2011. After reporting weaker second-quarter revenue than
competitors in that business, Goldman Sachs beat both  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  last quarter, excluding
accounting gains related to the decline of the banks’ own debt.  “In the core business there are some encouraging signs,”
said  William Fitzpatrick , a Milwaukee-based financial-services
analyst at Manulife Asset Management, which manages $217 billion
and owns Goldman Sachs stock. “It was the private-equity
business that weighed on results in the quarter.”  The shares rose $5.35 to $102.25 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest gain in more than
two months, as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Financial Index climbed
5 percent.  ‘Rough Patch’  “Trading wasn’t as bad as we all thought, and the bigger
losses came from writedowns in their investing and lending
unit,”  Thomas Brown , chief executive officer of Second Curve
Capital LLC, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop.” “I see Goldman as going through a rough patch in
the environment, but it’s environment-driven, not Goldman Sachs-
driven.”  The third-quarter loss, which compared with a year-earlier
profit of $1.9 billion, was the second time that Goldman Sachs
failed to post a profit since it became a public company in
1999. In both cases the loss was caused by reductions in the
value of Goldman Sachs’s investments in companies, private-
equity funds and loans.  The firm, which said in July that it planned to cut about
1,000 jobs to reduce annual costs by $1.2 billion, said it
employed 34,200 people at the end of September, down 1,300 from
the end of June.  Litton Sale  Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar told analysts on a
conference call today that about 500 of the job cuts in the
quarter related to the effort to cut costs. The other 800 came
from the sale of Litton Loan Servicing LP to Ocwen Financial
Corp., which more than offset the addition of personnel when the
firm gained control of its Australian joint venture, JBWere Ltd.  Investing and Lending, which includes Goldman Sachs’s
stakes in  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd. and other
companies, as well as holdings by the Special Situations Group
run by Jason M. Brown, reported negative revenue of $2.48
billion for the quarter. That compared with $1.8 billion in
revenue in the same period a year earlier.  About $1.05 billion of last quarter’s negative revenue was
attributed to a drop in the value of ICBC,  China ’s biggest
lender, and $1 billion was caused by losses on other equity
securities. The unit also booked $907 in negative revenue from
“debt securities and loans,” while gaining $477 from
investments in other entities.  Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., had
estimated the unit’s loss would be $1.67 billion, and predicted
the debt securities and loans segment would post $200 million in
revenue.  Mezzanine Debt  Most of the writedowns related to spread widening on senior
debt and so-called mezzanine debt, although the segment also
included some distressed loan losses, Viniar said on the call.  All of the Investing and Lending division’s losses were
unrealized, meaning they reflected markdowns in asset values and
not actual sales at lower values, Viniar said. He said that
division sold some assets at a profit during the period, which
helped to offset the writedowns.  “There’s no reason to think it won’t rebound,” Manulife’s
Fitzpatrick said of the Investing and Lending results. “I think
it will remain a big part of the business.”  Goldman Sachs expects Investing and Lending to produce a
return in excess of 10 percent over the long run, Viniar told
analysts.  “In any quarter it can be extremely volatile and up or
down a lot more than that,” he said. “Our history has been a
lot better than a 10 percent return.”  Book Value  Third-quarter revenue fell 60 percent to $3.59 billion from
$8.9 billion a year earlier and declined 51 percent from $7.28
billion in the second quarter. The company’s book value per
common share decreased to $131.09 from $131.44 at the end of the
second quarter.  Overall revenue from trading, run since February 2008 by
Edward K. Eisler, David B. Heller, Pablo J. Salame, and Harvey M. Schwartz, rose 16 percent to $4.06 billion from $3.52 billion
in the second quarter and was down 13 percent from $4.67 billion
in the third quarter of 2010.  The trading results included about $450 million of so-
called debt valuation adjustments, or DVAs, with about $300
million in fixed-income and about $150 million in equities
trading, Viniar said. U.S. accounting rules require that banks
book losses when the value of their debt rises and gains when it
declines on the theory that a loss, or profit, would be realized
if the bank were to repurchase the debt.  ‘A Little Confused’  Like most of its rivals, spreads on Goldman Sachs’s
corporate debt and credit-default swaps widened during the
quarter as investors became more cautious about risk from the
European sovereign debt crisis. Viniar said the wider spreads
make him “a little confused” because the firm believes it has
strong capital and liquidity.  “It’s had minimal impact on our business so far,” Viniar
said in response to a question on the call. “It might affect us
versus some competitors who might have lower spreads, but we
also compete on execution as well and our execution tends to be
pretty good.”  Goldman Sachs has about $5 billion in “plain vanilla
debt” maturing by the end of the year, Viniar said. “We’ll
decide as the quarter goes on whether we want to replace it or
we want to wait for a better time.”  Revenue from fixed-income, currencies and commodities,
typically the firm’s biggest source of revenue, dropped 36
percent to $1.73 billion from $2.69 billion a year earlier and
increased from $1.6 billion in the second quarter.  JPMorgan Chase  Excluding DVAs the business produced $1.43 billion, which
fell short of the $2.27 billion that Citigroup reported and the
$2.8 billion that  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reported on the same
basis.  The company’s average value-at-risk, a measure of the
amount of money the firm estimates it could lose in a single
day, was little changed during the quarter at $102 million
compared with $101 million in the prior period. Viniar told
analysts that the company’s value-at-risk, or VaR, climbed at
the end of the quarter as market volatility, one of the
ingredients of VaR, increased. Most of the rise took place in
the firm’s bets on  interest rates , Viniar said.  “I would expect, assuming we made no changes to positions
at all, that our VaR would be fairly significantly higher in the
fourth quarter than the third quarter,” he said.  Equities trading revenue rose to $2.33 billion from $1.98
billion a year earlier and from $1.92 billion in the second
quarter. Excluding DVAs, Goldman Sachs’s $2.18 billion of
equities trading revenue beat Bank of America, Citigroup and
JPMorgan Chase.  ‘Best Performer’  “They were the best performer of the four so far,” said
 David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in  New York  who
rates the stock “outperform.”  Investment banking, overseen globally by Richard J. Gnodde,
David M. Solomon and John S. Weinberg, generated $781 million of
revenue in the third quarter, down from $1.45 billion in the
second quarter and $1.16 billion in the third quarter of last
year. The company ranks No. 1 among advisers on global takeovers
announced this year and also has the top spot among managers of
global equity and equity-linked offerings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Investment banking’s relative contribution within the group
has grown this year. The business generated 15 percent of
Goldman Sachs’s revenue in the first nine months of the year, up
from 11 percent in the same period last year.  Compensation and Benefits  Compensation and benefits, Goldman Sachs’s biggest expense,
fell 59 percent to $1.58 billion in the third quarter from $3.83
billion in the same period last year. The amount set aside to
pay employees in the first nine months of the year fell 24
percent to $10 billion, or enough to pay each employee $292,836.
That compares with $13.1 billion in the first nine months of
2010, or enough to pay each of the firm’s 35,400 employees at
the time $370,700.  Goldman Sachs lost $2.12 billion, or $4.97 per share, in
the fourth quarter of 2008 after markets plunged following the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Goldman Sachs
rebounded to record profit in 2009 as asset values climbed and
the company slashed pay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 