-- 
Google Ice Cream Sandwich Woos Developers as IPhone Sales Set Record: Tech

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-10-19T10:44:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/google-ice-cream-sandwich-debuts-as-iphone-sets-record-tech.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  unveiled the first
device running the new version of its Android software, stepping
up competition with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and seeking to win over
developers by making it easier to write programs that run on
both phones and tablets.  The new Android, dubbed  Ice Cream Sandwich , was unveiled at
a joint event with Samsung Electronics Co. in Hong Kong today,
less than a week after Apple started selling the iPhone 4S, the
smartphone that set a sales record of more than 4 million units
in three days.  The latest Android incarnation pitches facial recognition
programs that enhance security and photo sorting. With the
update, Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  aims to boost
mobile-advertising sales and give customers an alternative to
Apple’s iOS software, which runs iPhones and iPads. At stake is
dominance in the $207 billion mobile-phone market, where iPhone
is the top-selling device and Android is the most-used software.  “Ice Cream Sandwich could provide the critical push in the
race to catch Apple,” said  Mark Newman , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in  Hong Kong . “Apple’s software is still on
the cutting edge.”  The Samsung Galaxy Nexus runs Ice Cream Sandwich, Matias
Duarte, Google’s senior director, told reporters in Hong Kong.
Samsung will start sales next month. No price was disclosed.  Other features of Ice Cream Sandwich include Android Beam,
which lets users quickly share web pages, apps and YouTube
videos, improved multi-tasking, and an upgraded voice technology
that converts dictation into text.  Honeycomb Software  Putting the same operating system in phones and tablets, a
break from the past where different devices ran separate
software, may spawn more applications on the Android platform.  “Users of Android tablets have had fewer applications to
choose from, compared with Apple,” said Lu Chia-lin, an analyst
at Samsung Securities  Asia  in Hong Kong. “Making an operating
system for both smartphones and tablets will help Google close
the gap.”  Earlier this month, Apple said there are more than 500,000
applications in the company’s  App Store . Firestone said the
Android Market had more than 200,000 apps as of May 10.  The most recent iteration of Apple’s mobile software drew
positive reviews for its new voice-recognition software, faster
processing speed and improved picture-taking ability. The
availability of new features helped Apple’s sales of iPhone 4S
reach a record in its first days on the market.  Defending Against Apple  Carolyn Wu, a spokeswoman at Apple in Beijing, declined to
comment on the Android upgrade. She cited statistics showing the
iPhone is the best-selling smartphone.  Still, Google is able to defend against Apple’s inroads in
part because it’s available on so many devices from multiple
carriers, said  Charles Golvin , an analyst at Forrester Research
Inc.  “Android doesn’t need any help demonstrating its effect on
the iPhone’s market share,” Golvin said. “It’s been doing
extremely well.”  Ice Cream Sandwich is the first major rollout for Android
since Google announced in August a $12.5 billion acquisition of
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. That led to speculation that
Google might become a competitor to its own handset partners.  Motorola Deal  Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said earlier this month that
the company “won’t do anything with Motorola, or anybody else
by the way, that would screw up the dynamics of that industry.”  Unveiling the software with Samsung, the biggest seller of
Android phones, should reassure partners that Google won’t favor
Motorola Mobility over other handset makers, said Song Myung
Sup, a Seoul-based analyst at HI Investment & Securities.  “At the end of the day, you have to give good treatment to
those who sell well,” Song said. “It wouldn’t make much sense
for Google to discriminate against Samsung.”  The software debut comes as Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung faces legal battles with Apple over patents in the U.S.
and  Europe . Google will enter the hardware business and gain a
trove of wireless patents with the Motorola Mobility
acquisition.  Android controlled 43.4 percent of the global smartphone
market in the second quarter, while Apple’s iOS had an 18.2
percent share, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  For tablets, Apple’s iOS dominated with 61.3 percent market
share in the second quarter, according to research company
 Strategy Analytics . Android accounted for 30.1 percent of the
tablet market.  Google offers Android for free and then makes money on
mobile advertising, which is on course to reach $2.5 billion on
an annual basis, Google said earlier this month.  “This is an important announcement for Android,” said
Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst Aaron Jeng, based in Taipei.
“Apple’s software supports both phones and tablets, and it’s
important for Android to have a common platform for both product
categories.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  