-- 
Graceway Wins Approval for Auction With Galderma’s $275 Million Lead Bid

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-10-18T15:06:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/graceway-pharmaceuticals-wins-court-approval-to-conduct-auction.html
Graceway Pharmaceuticals LLC, a
maker of skin treatments and asthma medication that sought
bankruptcy court protection last month, won approval to sell
virtually all its assets at auction.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Peter J. Walsh gave the company
permission to hold a Nov. 17 auction to see if anyone can beat
the $275 million lead bid from Cham, Switzerland-based Galderma
SA, according to court documents filed yesterday in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  Graceway, based in Bristol,  Tennessee , listed debt of as
much as $1 billion and assets of as much as $500 million in
Chapter 11 documents filed Sept. 29. Plunging sales following
the loss of patent protection on its top-selling product led to
the bankruptcy, the company said.  Bids for the auction must be submitted by Nov. 14,
according to court filings. The company will seek the judge’s
approval of the sale at a hearing scheduled for Nov. 22.  “We believe there will be more than one bidder and hope
that the price will rise,” Josef S. Athanas, a Graceway lawyer,
said during a hearing last month.  Graceway bought 3M Co.’s pharmaceutical business in the
Americas, including its former top-selling product Aldara, for
$875 million in 2007.  Graceway owes first-lien lenders about $430.7 million,
according to court papers. The drugmaker owes about $330 million
to second-lien lenders and about $81.4 million to unsecured
mezzanine lenders represented by Goldman Sachs Credit Partners
LP as agent.  Trade and general unsecured creditors are owed about
$30 million.  The case is In re Graceway Pharmaceuticals LLC, 11-13036,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 