-- 
Greece’s $473 Billion Debt Mirrors Crisis in Cultural Assets

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-10-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/greece-s-473-billion-debt-mirrors-crisis-in-cultural-assets.html
Plato doesn’t live here anymore.  A pack of feral cats chases the rodents that run past the
Gypsy squatters who inhabit the bleak 32-acre Athens park that
masks the birthplace of Western civilization. Alexandros Stanas
says what’s interred beneath the debris illustrates both a
solution to Greece’s 345 billion euro ($473 billion) sovereign
debt crisis and why his country roils in catastrophe.  “Economics, politics, philosophy, everything that empowers
our reasoning and ability to solve today’s problems was born
here at Plato’s Academy,” says Stanas, a former  management
consultant  at the Greek Ministry of Culture and Tourism who is
now general director of the  Art-Athina  International
Contemporary Art Fair.  “This is the original holy ground,” Stanas says, walking
across the garbage that covers the buried foundation of the 387
B.C. intellectual incubator. “This is what we Greeks have
allowed to happen to our ultimate metaphor for excellence.”  Stanas, 40, says that Plato’s Academy, discovered by a
private archaeologist in the late 1920s, is one of hundreds of
forlorn historic sites and destitute museums that generations of
Greek politicians of all persuasions have failed to turn into
attractions with the marketing clout of  Versailles , the academic
distinction of  Harvard University  or the influential draw of the
 World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland .  “WEF sells itself as Plato’s Academy in a Swiss village,”
Stanas says. “You are standing on the original WEF, the original
Harvard, but I can’t envision global leaders coming here for
enlightenment and inspiration.”  Under Siege  Stanas is not alone in using strong and what for many among
the 11 million Greeks is politically incorrect imagery to
describe the cultural dysfunction in a fiscally handcuffed
country under psychological siege and battling to show its
creditors that the corruption of the past is over.  “Athens is a tourism black hole,” says Minister of Culture
and Tourism Pavlos Yeroulanos, 45. “The days of the minister of
culture handing out money to his friends are over.”  Yet time is running out for the vigorous fishing-industry
executive tapped by Prime Minister  George Papandreou  in 2008 to
buff up the city’s decrepit government-owned museums.  Yeroulanos is brooding in the Hilton Hotel coffee shop. His
ministry has been taken over by some of the 2,500 contract
employees he was forced to dismiss to meet a budget target of
400 million euros that likely will be slashed even further.  Addicts and Tourists  “Let me tell you what we face,” Yeroulanos says. “The
minister of health and I are trying to create a methadone
program that will stop addicts from gathering around the
 National Archaeology Museum . My job is to promote culture but
the changes I’m trying to make happen, that need to happen, are
taking place within an escalating crisis.”  Pamphlets on how to deal with drug addicts scaring tourists
at what should be one of the world’s leading cultural
attractions are not on the table in the office of  Guggenheim
Foundation  international-board member Dakis Joannou. The
chairman of the Greek construction company  J&P-Avax SA (AVAX)  and
founder of the 28-year-old  Deste Foundation  for Contemporary Art
helped establish the  Guggenheim Museum  in Bilbao, transforming
the Spanish city from backwater to arts boomtown.  “Culture is a big business that people are hungry for and
we have huge assets,” Joannou, 71, says from his office in the
shadow of the Olympic stadium. “But the government uses our
assets to make political statements and to gain votes. It’s a
matter of survival for them, and nobody wants to invest in
culture or anything else in a climate of bankruptcy.”  Creative Drive  Even so, Joannou says that the two main political parties,
Pasok and  New Democracy , are devoid of the necessary cultural
drive, and that the government’s projected 12 percent rise to
16.5 million foreign tourists visiting  Greece  in 2011 compared
with last year is a Pyrrhic indicator.  “The tourists who come to Greece go to the sunny islands,
making any rise in visitor numbers pathetic in comparison to our
assets,” he says. “Culture management must be creative,
imaginative, exciting and that can’t be done here.”  Joannou says he thought Greece’s luck had turned when it
won the right to host the 2004 Olympics, only to spend 9 billion
euros on a project that ended in financial disaster, at the time
lumbering the government with a deficit in excess of 4 percent
of gross domestic product and beyond European Union limits.  “I went on a few of the government culture committees, but
their inability to act frustrated me,” he says. “I no longer get
involved. I gave up on them. I do my thing. It’s a shame.”  Joannou shakes his head. “We could have done here what we
did in Bilbao,” he says. “Politicians didn’t want to listen.”  No Sign  Private efforts to vitalize Greece’s cultural sector are
mostly met with political vitriol, says Paul Firos, the 64-year-
old founder of Hotel Data Systems Inc. Shortly before the 2004
Olympics, the Greek-American businessman and philanthropist sold
his Connecticut-based reservation software system and used 2
million euros of the profit to open the  Herakleidon Art and
Mathematics  Museum on a leafy street beneath the Acropolis.  The government still refuses to allow him to put up a
street sign that could lead people to the museum, says Firos.  Even the critically acclaimed New Acropolis Museum, which
opened in 2009, after 33 years of ideological bickering, lingers
as a target. Greek Communist Party Secretary General Aleka Papariga and the Greek Archaeologists Society have issued
statements that condemn the 130 million euro facility co-funded
by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and by the EU’s European
Regional Development Fund as “unacceptable” and “in danger from
the most extreme privatization.”  Managing Culture  “Neither political party has the will or expertise to
manage culture,” he says. “Government culture experts live in a
bunker and view any outside help to manage our treasures and
make them profitable as a threat to their livelihoods.”  Conventional wisdom dictates that cultural entrepreneurs
not affiliated with either of the two main political parties are
determined to Disneyfy Greece, Firos says, turning the country
into a theme park with water slides on the Acropolis and a
roller coaster down Mount Athos. As Yeroulanos says, “I will
tell anyone who wants to Disneyfy my country to go to hell.”  It’s a potent rallying cry in a country whose citizens
idolize their heritage and ancestors. As Costas Sarris, the 60-
year-old  Ministry of Culture and Tourism  archaeologist charged
with the restoration of Plato’s Academy, says, “if you can’t
preserve something, it’s better to leave it in the ground than
dig it up for uncontrolled use.”  Disney Option  That’s why Daniel Berger remains in  Rome .  Back in 1993, Berger, a U.S. cultural entrepreneur, noticed
that bureaucratic neglect and corruption had transformed Italian
museums and archaeological sites into junkyards. “It was just
like Greece,” he says. “Italian society feared outside money and
private people doing things the government couldn’t do.”  So Berger, 73, helped the Italian  Ministry of Cultural
Heritage and Activities  formulate the so-called Ronchey laws,
which allow private individuals and companies to bid on
operating bookshops, restaurants, tours, ticketing and other
concessions in state museums. A fee is paid for the space, with
the government taking about 15 percent of the profits.  “At this point, letting Disney come in and manage Greece’s
cultural heritage would be the best thing that could happen,”
says Berger. “Okay, that’s too much, but the government’s fear
of Disney highlights the problem they refuse to deal with.
Visitors to Greece’s treasures want a toilet that doesn’t look
like something out of an African village.”  Small wonder that Yeroulanos says he has no intention of
speaking with Berger. “I’m not interested,” he says. “This is
disastrous thinking.  Athens  is not  Las Vegas  or  Abu Dhabi .”  Athena Bikinis  “The ignorance overwhelms,” Berger says. “They worry about
gift shops selling Athena bikinis. Every product that
concessionaires sell in  Italy  must be signed off by the museum’s
director.”  Athens lawyer and former parliamentarian Stratis Stratigis
untangles the paradox.  “Greek politicians are intimidated by sponsors, foundations
and entrepreneurs,” says Stratigis, former chairman of the 2004
Athens Olympic Organizing Committee. “They’re seen as products
of capitalist fortunes, a model that the leftists of Pasok and
the populists of New Democracy have rejected for generations
because it hurts them during elections.”  Roupen Kalfayan is sitting in his Athens  gallery  next to a
cucumber designed by artist Vlassis Caniaris. “The real cultural
community in Greece shares no common language with the
politicians we elect to manage our culture,” says Kalfayan, 48.
“There would be a civil war if professionals managed our
cultural resources. Do you have any idea how many bureaucrats
are on the government’s culture payroll?”  Gaming the System  Statistical proof of what Kalfayan calls “culture gaming”
is evident in the EU’s 2008 Archaeology Labor Market
Intelligence Report. The Greek government employs 1,856
archaeologists at an average annual salary of 28,925 euros,
according to the  study . Some 1,556 of these archaeologists are
paid by the Ministry of Culture, with 450 of those assigned to
work in the Athens region.  Epaminondas Farmakis is chief operating officer of the
 Stavros Niarchos Foundation . The 40-year-old former mergers-and-
acquisitions specialist at Merrill Lynch & Co. spends his days
using the Greek shipping tycoon’s multibillion-dollar legacy to
fund and promote philanthropic projects in poverty, education,
health, arts and culture in 95 countries.  One example is the foundation’s support of Hurricane
Katrina relief efforts in  New Orleans . Another is a 556 million
euro investment in construction of the 42-acre Stavros Niarchos
Park in Athens. Scheduled for completion in 2015, the site will
include a new National Library of Greece and an opera house
designed by Pompidou Center architect  Renzo Piano .  Business Model  “We don’t just write checks,” Farmakis says. “We follow a
business model and provide management help when necessary.”  Greece needs such help and refuses to ask for it, he says.  “There is no continuity, no common goal,” Farmakis says.
“But it will never be our role to step in and regenerate a
corrupt system that must be rebuilt from scratch. We cannot
replace the Greek state. We do try to add value, instruct in the
skills of arts management and the economics of culture.”  The results, Farmakis says, often end in heartbreak.  “Some of our grants in Greece are being canceled,” he says.
“The state sectors we want to help simply don’t have the
management structure to absorb the funding. It’s tragic.”  To contact the writer on the story:
A. Craig Copetas in Athens at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 