-- 
Greece Orders Striking Workers Back of Work Ahead of Vote

-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-10-18T11:31:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/greece-orders-striking-municipal-garbage-workers-back-to-work.html
Greece’s government ordered striking
municipal garbage collection workers back to their posts as
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  ramped up the stakes with
unions ahead of a key vote on new austerity measures.  Papandreou signed a so-called civil mobilization order
valid for all regions of wider Athens taking effect from 7 a.m.
today local time, according to the directive printed in the
 Government Gazette . Failure to comply will mean arrest and
possible trial, an Interior Ministry spokeswoman said.  Public-sector staff have shut down government services and
buildings in protest over proposed additional taxes, fresh cuts
to pensions and wages and plans to dismiss 30,000 state workers.
Mounds of garbage have lined the streets of Athens for more than
a week amid the strikes, which will peak tomorrow and Oct. 20,
when Parliament is due to vote on the austerity bill.  “To fight this fight on the best terms, it is important
that we be seen to be true to our pledges,” Papandreou told his
ministers in  Athens  yesterday, an e-mailed transcript showed.  The government has ordered striking staff back to work on
at least two previous occasions, both times succeeding in
pressing workers to resume their duties. A separate Interior
Ministry spokesman said the notification orders telling garbage
staff to return to work would be issued in the next few hours.  Seamen, Drivers  Papandreou’s government directed striking sailors back to
work in November one week after the Pan-Hellenic Seamen’s
Federation began disrupting essential services to the Greek
islands. Greek truck drivers bowed to government pressure and
voted to return to work in August last year, ending a six-day
strike that caused nationwide fuel shortages.  Papandreou has said the latest round of austerity is
necessary as the economy contracts more than forecast by
 Greece ’s international creditors and that it will help secure
both new financing for the coming years as well as an 8 billion-
euro ($11 billion) tranche due next month that will stave off
default.  With 154 seats in the 300-seat Parliament, Papandreou’s
government has the majority needed to win the vote even as
opposition grows from labor unions, traditional supporters of
his socialist Pasok party and within his own parliamentary
ranks. One deputy quit yesterday in a move that doesn’t affect
Papandreou’s majority.  Government services, courts, trains, schools, hospitals and
postal delivery will be halted for 48 hours from tomorrow, while
dockworkers, bank employees, tax collectors, municipal workers
and taxi drivers also plan to walk off the job. Air traffic
controllers will ground all commercial flights into and out of
Greece.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  