-- 
Office Leasing Slows in U.S. Central Business Districts on Economy Turmoil

-- B y   K a t i e   S p e n c e r
-- 
2011-10-18T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/growth-in-office-demand-slows-in-u-s-central-business-districts.html
The growth in demand for office
space in U.S. central business districts slowed in the third
quarter after the country’s economic recovery began losing
steam, Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said today.  New leases were signed for 16.9 million square feet (1.6
million square meters) in the three months ended Sept. 30, down
from 23.6 million square feet in the second quarter, the New
York-based commercial real estate brokerage said. The vacancy
rate was 13.8 percent, the same as midyear and down from 14.9
percent a year earlier.  “What we’re seeing is apprehension in terms of taking
action, and I think that that’s a reflection of volatility in
the global economy,” Maria Sicola, executive managing director
of research for the Americas at Cushman, said in a telephone
interview from  Portland ,  Oregon . “That’s really translating
itself into the halting of decision-making.”  The  U.S. economy  almost stalled in the first six months of
2011, growing at a 1.3 percent pace from April through June
after expanding 0.4 percent in the first quarter, the weakest
performance in two years. The  unemployment rate  has been at 9
percent or higher for six straight months.  While 18 of the 30 U.S. central business districts tracked
by Cushman had declines in vacancies, most of those had
decreases of 1 percentage point or less. Boston, Manhattan’s
Midtown South and  New Haven ,  Connecticut , had the biggest drops
from the second quarter.  Midtown South, the area between 30th and Canal streets, and
Portland had the lowest vacancy rates in the third quarter.
Midtown South’s fell to 6.1 percent from 7.1 percent midyear,
while Portland’s dropped to 9.1 percent from 9.6 percent.  Intel in Portland  “Portland benefits from technology,” Sicola said.  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  “is the largest employer here, so you definitely have the
impact of the technology sector in this market in the same way
that you’d see it in a  San Francisco  or a Silicon Valley,” she
said.  Asking rents for U.S. central business districts increased
for the second consecutive quarter, rising to an average of
$36.80 a square foot from $36.45 midyear. Rents rose in 12
cities, dropped in 16 and were little changed in two. San
Francisco, Miami, Houston and  Dallas  had the largest increases.  San Francisco rents rose 6.1 percent to $41.33 per square
foot, driven by technology-industry demand in the city’s South
of Market area, Sicola said. Midtown  Manhattan  had the highest
average asking rents, rising to $64.07 from $63.35 in the second
quarter.  Leases signed this year in U.S. central business districts
totaled 58.7 million square feet as of Sept. 30, up 23 percent
from a year earlier and the strongest first nine months of the
year since 2007, Cushman said. Demand for office space may pick
up this quarter as some companies move forward on leasing
decisions they put on hold earlier in 2011, according to Sicola.  “We’re still on par for a strong year,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Spencer in New York at 
 Katiespencer14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  