-- 
IBM Declines After Missing Sales Estimates on Slowing Demand

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-10-18T20:17:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/ibm-falls-in-trading-as-it-misses-sales-estimates-on-slow-demand.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the biggest computer-services company, fell the most in
two months after missing sales estimates for the first time in
five quarters.  IBM dropped 4.1 percent to $178.90 at the close in  New
York , the biggest daily decline since Aug. 18.  Sales for the third quarter climbed 7.8 percent to
$26.2 billion, Armonk, New York-based IBM said yesterday.
Analysts predicted $26.3 billion, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue showed slowing growth in IBM’s
software, hardware and services businesses.  “Because they didn’t beat, the stock’s going to trade
down; the expectation is pretty high for this name,” said Josh Olson, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,
 Missouri , who has a “buy” rating on the stock. A slowdown in
hardware revenue growth is occurring “sooner than I expected.”  Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  is focusing on areas
such as business analytics, emerging markets and cloud computing
to boost sales amid sluggish economic expansion. The  U.S.
economy  grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the second quarter
following a 0.4 percent gain in the previous three months, the
weakest performance in two years.  Slowing Growth  Declines in  Japan  and the public sector weighed on the
performance of IBM’s services business, Chief Financial Officer
Mark Loughridge said on a conference call. IBM has more exposure
to Japan than competitors, David Grossman, an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus in  San Francisco , said in a note to investors.  Sales growth at IBM’s services unit slowed to 8 percent
from 10 percent in the second quarter, while revenue expansion
at its software unit decelerated to 13 percent from 17 percent.
Hardware sales growth slowed to 4 percent from 17 percent.  IBM shares have risen 22 percent this year. The stock
reached a record of $190.53 on Oct. 14, and at least three
analysts revised their price estimates to $200 a share or higher
that week. In September, IBM passed Microsoft Corp. in market
value based on closing prices for the first time since 1996
before the companies switched back.  “This is a name that you’re expecting in this environment
to perform very strong,” said Brad Zelnick, a Macquarie Capital
USA analyst who added coverage of IBM last week. “Any
deceleration in signings or any significant drain on backlog is
going to send shares down.”  Analysts at BMO Capital Markets and FBN Securities reduced
their ratings for IBM shares after the earnings report.  Backlog Shrinking  Contract signings for services, which make up about
60 percent of IBM revenue, were $12.3 billion, compared with
$11 billion a year earlier. Analysts on average estimated
$12.5 billion, UBS AG said in a note to investors.  Backlog, which measures expected future revenue
from contracts, shrank to $137 billion in the quarter from
$144 billion in the second quarter, largely because of changes
in currency exchange rates, Loughridge said.  Third-quarter net income rose 7 percent to $3.84 billion.
Profit on an operating basis rose to $3.28 a share, beating the
$3.22 average analyst estimate.  Operating earnings will climb to at least $13.35 a share
this year, up from a previous projection of at least $13.25, IBM
said. Analysts predicted $13.33 on average.  ‘Bellwether’  Revenue from growth markets, such as Brazil, India and
 China , climbed 19 percent last quarter. Sales from the regions
will make up at least 30 percent of revenue by 2015, the company
has said, up from 21 percent in 2010.  “Growth-market performance was terrific across all
segments,” Loughridge said.  It was the fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth
in these markets, and it led revenue growth in all business
segments, Loughridge said. IBM opened up 80 new branches, he
said.  “They’re very ahead of where the big markets will be in a
few years, and it’s very important for them to have a footprint
there,” Ed Maguire, an analyst at Credit Agricole Securities
USA, said in an interview. He has an “outperform” rating on
the shares.  Palmisano has said he plans to spend about $20 billion on
acquisitions between 2010 and 2015. So far the company has spent
about $3 billion in acquisitions related to cloud computing,
said Steven Tomasco, an IBM spokesman.  Because of IBM’s global position and broad set of computer
services, it is “about as close as you can get to a technology
index fund,” Maguire said. “They’re a bellwether for the rest
of the market.”  Accenture Plc and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , which compete with IBM in
selling services to technology companies, both benefited from
increased spending by business clients in their most recent
quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  