-- 
Michelin Adds Another Three Top-Tier Restaurants in West Japan

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-10-18T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/michelin-adds-another-three-top-tier-restaurants-to-west-japan-s-star-haul.html
Michelin today adds another three
new three-star restaurants in western  Japan , taking the total
for that region to 15 -- and for the country to 29 -- as the
French dining guide deepens its love affair with the Asian
nation.  Wa Yamamura gains the top accolade in Nara, covered by
Michelin for the first time this year, while  Fujiya 1935  and
Koryu, both in  Osaka , are promoted to three stars from two.
Seven more establishments gain two stars in the guide to Kyoto,
Osaka, Kobe and Nara, Michelin said in an e-mailed release.  “Japan is a unique country with many cities that are full
of high-level cuisine,” Bernard Delmas, president of Nihon
Michelin Tire, said in the release. “This is why, as we reach
the fifth anniversary of our arrival in Japan, we continue to
discover new stars.”  Japan has emerged as a favorite with the Michelin
inspectors, who in the 2011 guide for  France  awarded three stars
to 25 venues, two stars to 76 and one star to 470. The guide to
France is the last for each year’s cycle and is usually
announced in February.  Michelin releases two separate guides in Japan. The first
is for four cities in the west of the country and the other for
Tokyo and neighboring conurbations.  The winners join the 14 restaurants currently holding three
stars in the Tokyo area, whose results for 2012 are scheduled to
be announced on Nov. 29. A total of 59 restaurants in western
Japan (29 in Kyoto, 15 in Osaka, 12 in Kobe and 3 in Nara) and
two ryokan inns (both in Kyoto) earn two stars.  Star Cities  The total number of three-star restaurants in the world now
increases to 101. Seven venues in  New York  and two in  London 
hold three stars.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Various criteria are used: food quality, preparation and
flavors; the chef’s personality as revealed through the cuisine;
value for money; and consistency over time and across the menu.  Michelin & Cie. is the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free of charge (until 1920) and intended for
chauffeurs. The guide contained practical information, including
street maps and tips on using and repairing tires.  The three-star winners:  “MICHELIN guide Kyoto Osaka Kobe Nara 2012” will be
published by Nihon Michelin Tire Co. on Oct. 21, priced at 2,520
yen, including tax. The English version goes on sale in France
on Feb. 1, 2012. The  Tokyo  guide is scheduled for publication on
Dec. 2, 2011.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 