-- 
India Says Inflation May Be ‘Under Pressure’ Until December

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-10-18T12:56:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/india-says-inflation-may-be-under-pressure-until-december.html
India’s inflation may be “under
pressure” until December, the  finance ministry  said,
reiterating the central bank’s view before next week’s monetary
policy announcement.  “Non-food manufactured product inflation could be high in
the next six months due to cost pressures,” the ministry said
in a report in  New Delhi  today. “It’s expected that headline
inflation will be under pressure till December 2011.”  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao, who has
raised  interest rates  12 times since mid-March 2010, will
announce the next policy decision on Oct. 25. Emerging-market
nations from Brazil to Russia have reduced borrowing costs to
support growth as a struggling U.S. recovery and deepening debt
crisis in Europe threaten the global economy.  The yield on the 10-year 7.8 percent securities due April
2021 was little changed at 8.75 percent in Mumbai today. The BSE
 India  Sensitive Index dropped 1.6 percent and the rupee declined
0.7 percent to 49.30 per dollar.  India’s inflation must ease before the central bank can
reduce interest rates, Subbarao said Oct. 12, signaling policy
makers may maintain a tight monetary stance for now.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate has stayed
above 9 percent since the start of December and was 9.72 percent
in September, according to the commerce ministry.  The governor in July predicted inflation to ease to 7
percent by March 31. He forecast India’s economy will expand
about 8 percent in the year through March from 8.5 percent in
the previous year.  Subbarao has boosted the Reserve Bank’s benchmark rate by
350 basis points since mid-March 2010, the fastest round of
increases since the central bank was established in 1935,
Bloomberg data show. The central bank’s repurchase rate is 8.25
percent.  India’s economy  may expand at a slower pace than earlier
estimated in the current fiscal year ending March 31 because of
a faltering global economy and weakening industrial output, the
finance ministry said today, without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  