-- 
India Stock Futures Decline After Tata Misses Profit Forecast

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-10-18T02:18:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/india-stock-futures-decline-after-tata-misses-profit-forecast.html
India ’s stock-index futures declined
after earnings at the nation’s biggest software exporter missed
estimates and  Germany  doused expectations of progress in
Europe’s debt talks.  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures for October delivery
declined 1 percent to 5,073.5 at 10:17 a.m. in  Singapore . The
futures are derived from the 50 stocks on the underlying S&P CNX
Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of India, which fell
0.3 percent to 5,118.25 yesterday. The BSE India Sensitive Index
dropped 0.3 percent to 17,025.09.  Tata Consultancy Ltd. reported profits that missed analyst
forecasts for the first time in 10 quarters as a faltering
economic recovery curbed technology spending. Divisions flared
in Europe over a plan to avoid a Greek default, bolster banks
and limit contagion as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s office
knocked down what it called “dreams” that an Oct. 23 summit
will provide a fix for the debt crisis. Tata and rivals such as
Infosys Ltd. get about three-quarters of revenue from overseas.  “The Nifty seems to be in a mid-term downward trend,”
Sarasin-Alpen (India) Private Ltd., a unit of the Swiss wealth
manager controlled by Rabobank Groep, said in a report dated
yesterday. “Global macroeconomic announcements and corporate
earnings will continue to influence equity markets. Foreign
institutional investment is not showing any consistent or
predictable trend in the last couple of days.”  ‘Negativism’  Tata Consultancy’s net income rose 15 percent to 24.4
billion rupees ($498 million) in the three months ended Sept.
30, the Mumbai-based computer services company said in a
statement yesterday. Profit trailed the 25.2 billion-rupee
median of 28 analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran said there was a
lot of “negativism” among clients. His counterpart at rival
Infosys Ltd., S.D. Shibulal, said last week that customers were
delaying decisions on projects. The macroeconomic situation in
 Europe  is “worrisome,” Chandrasekaran said at a briefing in
Mumbai yesterday.  Two out of five Sensex companies that posted earnings for
the September quarter have lagged behind analyst estimates,
compared with 47 percent in the three months ended June, and 33
percent in the previous quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Earnings Reports  Hero Motorcorp Ltd., the country’s biggest motorcycle
maker, may report net profit of 5.6 billion rupees, according to
the median estimate of 30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That
compares with 5.1 billion rupees a year earlier.  Quarterly earnings at  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  may be 9.03
billion rupees, compared with 8.94 billion last year, according
to a survey of nine analysts.  Coal India Ltd., the world’s biggest producer, may be
active as workers dropped a threat to go on strike after
reaching an agreement with the government on bonuses.  The government is looking to rationalize the local
securities transaction tax to help shore up stock market
volumes, a finance ministry official, who declined to be
identified before a public announcement, said in  New Delhi 
yesterday.  India may also allow overseas investors to buy more
sovereign rupee debt, raising the cap on foreign investment for
the first time in 13 months, to help counter equity outflows
fueled by Europe’s debt crisis, the same ministry official said.  Debt ‘Burn’  “At best, any increase in the foreign-investment limit
will act as a balm,” said Nirav Dalal, the Mumbai-based head of
debt markets at Yes Bank Ltd. “But it won’t heal the burn
suffered by the large supply of debt.”  India’s biggest convertible bond default in seven months is
spurring concern that more companies will fail to redeem their
debt, with $588 million coming due this year.  Zenith Infotech Ltd. (ZNI) , a Mumbai-based company that maintains
computer systems for clients, said on Oct. 13 that it didn’t pay
$33 million due last month, the most since Cranes Software Ltd.
reneged on $58 million of debt in March. The amount of bonds
that mature in the fourth quarter and can be exchanged into
company stock is about eight times higher than it was in the
same period of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 17 percent slide in India’s benchmark Sensitive Index
this year and  Asia ’s highest interest rates means companies that
borrowed intending to repay debt by issuing new stock are
finding it hard to raise cash.  Borrowing Costs  The RBI raised its repurchase rate for a 12th time since
March 2010 on Sept. 16, a move that contrasts with Brazil and
 Russia , which cut borrowing costs. The wholesale-price index
rose 9.72 percent from a year ago in September, staying above 9
percent for the 10th straight month after a 9.78 percent jump in
August. An inflation rate of more than 9 percent is above the
central bank’s “comfort level,” central bank Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao said on Oct. 13.  India’s inflation must ease before the central bank can
reduce  interest rates , Subbarao said, signaling policy makers
may maintain a tight monetary stance for now.  The Sensex has slumped this year on concern record
interest-rate increases may compound the effects of Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis and slowing U.S. economic growth on
corporate profits. Companies in the Sensex trade at 14.4 times
estimated profits, down from 21.5 times in March 2010. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index is valued at 9.8 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  