-- 
Indian Revolt Targets Morales Road Project as Bolivians March

-- B y   S a r a   S h a h r i a r i
-- 
2011-10-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/indian-revolt-targets-morales-road-project-as-bolivians-march.html
Bolivian President Evo Morales has
built his presidency on promises to defend people like Cecilia
Moyovire from the excesses of global capitalism. Now, the
Moxeno-Trinitario Indian and fellow protesters are threatening
his plans to open up a region of the Amazon rain forest rich in
energy, timber and other resources.  Moyovire, 42, has been camped a few blocks from the
government palace in La Paz since police attacked a group of
1,000 marchers from a national park in central  Bolivia  on Sept.
25 as they protested against plans for a Brazilian-built road
through the region. That march will likely paralyze downtown La
Paz when it reaches the capital this week.  “If the government continues being obstinate, their
machines will have to pass over our dead bodies,” said
Moyovire, a mother of five from the National Park and Indigenous
Territory  Isiboro-Secure  as she sat outside her tent last week.  Morales, an Aymara Indian who has harnessed indigenous
support to become Bolivia’s longest serving president since
military rule ended in 1985, backs the $415 million highway
being built by Sao Paulo-based Construtora OAS Ltd. with
majority funding from Brazil’s state development bank. The road
will connect with the Chilean port city of Arica, allowing
 Brazil  to export food and minerals to  China . The park also holds
some of the gas reserves whose development nationwide is driving
5 percent economic growth this year in Bolivia.  The dispute comes almost two years after Morales, 51,
endorsed a new constitution that grants indigenous groups,
including Moyovire’s Moxeno Trinitario, the right to be
consulted before projects begin on their land. That process is
not clearly defined and no one asked the people of three
indigenous groups that live in the  TIPNIS , as the park is known,
if they wanted a road through their territory, said Jose Ortiz,
an indigenous leader from Bolivia’s lowlands.  Future Conflicts  “There will be more conflicts,” said Miguel Centellas, a
political science professor at the  University of Mississippi  in
Oxford. “The TIPNIS issue is only the most pronounced
indigenous opposition to these developmentalist projects. The
success of the TIPNIS protest will embolden future groups.”  Bolivia is seeking to boost gas output by 40 percent to 66
million cubic meters a day by 2014 to meet its supply contracts
with Brazil and  Argentina , according to state oil and gas
company  Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos . The La
Paz-based company exports the bulk of the 39 million cubic
meters of gas a day Bolivia sells to its two neighbors.  That increase will be dependent on natural gas and oil
exploration contracts to be granted this year for the first time
since Morales took office in 2006. In that year, the government
forced companies including Rio de Janeiro-based  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  to renegotiate contracts, driving up taxes.
Moscow-based OAO Gazprom and Vietnam Oil & Gas Group from Hanoi
are among the energy companies that have expressed interest.  Core Plan  “The core of Morales’s economic plan, beginning with the
nationalization of the oil industry, has been to rely on
extractive industries,” Centellas said. “That means more
mining and drilling,” which will lead to greater conflict.  The exploration contracts may include areas within the
TIPNIS national park, according to a decree signed by Morales a
year ago, though the government has said it doesn’t currently
have plans to begin drilling there.  Future conflict may include friction with Guarani
indigenous groups over gas extraction and with communities on
the edge of the Salar de Uyuni salt flats, where pilot lithium
mining projects are under way, Centellas says.  Commodity-Driven Growth  Bolivia’s economic growth is increasingly fueled by its
natural resources. Gross domestic product expanded 5 percent in
the first half of 2011 from the year earlier, with the crude oil
and natural gas industry growing 9.1 percent. That compares with
8.4 percent growth in neighboring  Chile  over the same period and
7.7 percent in  Peru .  Natural gas for November delivery fell 1.5 cents to settle
at $3.688 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Gas has declined 16 percent this
year. The central bank has kept the Boliviano at about 6.92 to
the  U.S. dollar  since July, when it adjusted its crawling
currency peg for the sixth time this year.  Anger at the police crackdown on the marchers in September
led Interior Minister Sacha Llorenti to resign, while the
country’s Defense Minister quit in solidarity with the Indians.
Since the protests began two months ago, Morales’ approval
rating has fallen 9 percentage points to 35 percent in October,
the second-lowest rating of his presidency, according to La Paz-
based pollster Ipsos-Apoyo. Morales has said he’ll consider
running for a third term in 2014.  In another rebuke to Morales, 45 percent of ballots were
left blank or nullified in an election for the country’s top
judges on Oct. 16, La Paz-based newspaper La Razon reported,
citing a report by Ipsos Apoyo.  Marchers  More than 1,000 people will march into  La Paz  this week
after trekking 250 miles over two months from the lowland
jungles. Many marchers will carry the bows and arrows they use
to hunt in the largely untouched rainforest of the TIPNIS, where
15,000 indigenous people live in three groups.  “The indigenous people never said we don’t want roads,”
said Ortiz, the indigenous leader. “Progress must come, but
progress that complies with the laws of the country and the
right to be consulted that is established in the constitution.”  Highland vs. Lowland  The TIPNIS conflict also highlights a deepening divide
between indigenous people of Bolivia’s highlands, many of them
coca growers and miners that support Morales, and those from the
resource-rich lowlands who oppose the road. Morales belongs to
one of two highland groups that make up the bulk of Bolivia’s 10
million people and dwarf the more than 30 small lowland groups.  On Oct. 13, more than 10,000 union workers, government
employees and members of indigenous groups flooded the streets
of La Paz in a show of support for Morales.  “Our brother  Evo Morales  cannot advance the process of
change alone,” said highland indigenous leader Gregorio Ramos
as he marched at the head of a column of supporters. “That is
why we are here.”  This week, it will be the turn of the rival lowland Indians
to bring central La Paz to a halt.  “I want to remind the president of when he said ‘Brothers
and sisters if I make a mistake, correct me,’” Moyovire said.
“Now it’s time that we as Bolivian brothers and sisters must
correct a mistake.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Shahriari in La Paz at 
 sshahriari@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 