-- 
Rupiah Recoups Losses on Central Bank Intervention Speculation

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-10-18T10:09:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/indonesian-rupiah-snaps-three-day-gain-as-china-s-economy-cools.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah was unchanged,
recouping its earlier losses, on speculation the central bank
intervened to curb declines in the currency. Bonds dropped.  Bank Indonesia is selling dollars when needed to ease
volatility in the currency, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said
on Oct. 7. The currency fell as much 0.5 percent earlier on
concern exports will cool as  China  reported that its economy
grew at the slowest pace since 2009. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index
of shares dropped the most in two weeks after  Germany  doused
expectations for a quick resolution to  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “We heard that the central bank intervened to ease
volatility in the currency,” said Mika Martumpal, a currency
analyst at PT Bank Commonwealth in Jakarta. “ Bank Indonesia 
doesn’t want big movements in the currency. There are renewed
concerns about Europe’s debt crisis.”  The rupiah was at 8,818 per dollar as of 4:30 p.m. in
Jakarta, according to prices from local banks complied by
Bloomberg.  China’s gross domestic product rose 9.1 percent in the
three months ended September from a year earlier after having
increased 9.5 percent in the quarter ended June, China’s
statistics bureau said today. The world’s second-biggest economy
is also Indonesia’s third-largest overseas market, according to
official data.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has made it clear that
expectations for a complete fix to the crisis at an Oct. 23
meeting of European Union leaders “won’t be able to be
fulfilled,” Steffen Seibert, her chief spokesman, said
yesterday.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 10-year bond
increased six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.37
percent today, according to the Inter-Dealer Market Association.
The rate reached a record low of 6.31 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  