-- 
Mining Companies Face Ban in Eritrea Under Drafted UN Sanctions

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-10-18T19:42:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/mining-companies-face-ban-in-eritrea-under-drafted-un-sanctions.html
Eritrea faces tougher  United Nations 
sanctions that would ban companies from investing in the African
country’s mineral resources such as gold.  “All states shall prohibit investment” in Eritrea’s
mining industry and “prohibit the import of gold and other raw
materials” from Eritrea, according to a copy of a draft
resolution introduced by Gabon, one of three African nations on
the UN Security Council.  Eritrea’s $2.59 billion economy relies on mining. Gold has
drawn investment from companies including Canada’s Nevsun
Resources Ltd.  Another resource is the money sent back by Eritreans living
abroad. The expatriates pay a 2 percent tax on those
remittances. The UN resolution would seek to ban collection of
the tax.  Further economic sanctions may hurt more than 5 million
people living in poverty. Eritrea is one of the world’s poorest
nations, with citizens earning just over a $1 a day, the UN
says.  A July 18 UN report said the tax on remittances is the
“most significant source of revenue” for the government,
estimating the income to be “tens, possibly hundreds of
millions of dollars on an annual basis.” The government,
through a joint gold-mining venture with Vancouver-based Nevsun,
has “started to receive royalty payments worth millions of
dollars,” the report said.  Failed Plot  The latest push to punish Eritrea was triggered by a UN
report in July that said its government planned a failed plot in
January to disrupt the African Union summit in  Addis Ababa  by
bombing civilian and governmental targets.  The draft resolution “condemns in the strongest possible
terms Eritrea’s continued pattern of destabilization activities,
including training, financial and logistical support to armed
groups in the region including al-Shabaab.”  Eritrea has been ruled by President Isaias Afeworki, a
former rebel leader, since it gained independence from  Ethiopia 
in 1993. The UN has already sanctioned the country in the Horn
of  Africa  for supporting al-Qaeda-linked terrorists fighting to
topple the Western-backed government of Somalia. The current
sanctions include an asset freeze and a travel ban on government
leaders.  Al-Shabaab, a Somalia-based terrorist organization that the
U.S. says has links to al-Qaeda, generates between $70 million
and $100 million a year in revenue from taxation and extortion
in areas under its control, according to the UN report.  Terrorist Links  Islamist groups including al-Shabaab and the Hisb-ul-Islam
movement, previously based in  Eritrea , have gained control of
most of southern and central  Somalia  in their bid to oust
President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s UN-backed transitional
government. Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central
administration since the removal of Mohamed Siad Barre, the
former dictator, in 1991.  U.S.-backed Ethiopian troops invaded Somalia in December
2006, ousting the Islamic Courts Union government that had
briefly captured southern Somalia. The troops withdrew in
January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  