-- 
Intel Forecasts Sales Above Estimates on Demand for Laptops

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-10-18T23:17:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/intel-forecasts-fourth-quarter-sales-above-estimates-on-demand-for-laptops.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest
chipmaker, forecast fourth-quarter sales that exceeded some
analysts’ estimates, citing strong demand for  laptop computers 
in emerging markets. The shares jumped as much as 5.1 percent.  Revenue will rise to $14.7 billion, plus or minus $500
million, Intel said in a statement today. That compares with
$14.2 billion, the average of analysts’ projections compiled by
Bloomberg. Fourth-quarter gross margin, the percentage of sales
left after deducting production costs, will be about 65 percent.  Intel said sales of  notebook computers  are driving
earnings, with unit growth at a percentage in the double digits.
The outlook defied analysts’ predictions that consumers are
turning away from laptops in favor of tablets and smartphones.
Intel also may have benefited from a failure by rival  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  to supply enough of its own new chips.  “So far, Intel has been right about PCs and laptops,”
said  Keith Goddard , chief executive officer of Tulsa, Oklahoma-
based Capital Advisors Inc., which owns 312,000 shares of Intel.
“The trends outside the U.S. are not as tablet-centric.”  The company also boosted its stock-buyback program by $10
billion, bringing the total available for repurchases to $14.2
billion at the end of the third quarter.  Intel shares rose as high as $24.60 after the report.
Earlier, the stock increased 0.5 percent to $23.40 at the close
in  New York . The shares have gained 11 percent this year.  ‘Significant Growth’  “The emerging markets, as the technology we sell becomes
more affordable, are generating significant growth,” Intel
Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith said in an interview.  AMD, Intel’s main challenger in PC chips, last month said
manufacturing glitches at a plant in  Germany  were hurting
production of its processors for PCs and servers.  Intel’s third-quarter net income rose to $3.47 billion, or
65 cents a share, from $2.96 billion, or 52 cents, a year
earlier, the  Santa Clara , California-based company said.
Analysts on average had estimated profit of 61 cents. Sales
increased 28 percent to a record $14.2 billion, compared with an
average prediction of $13.9 billion.  Intel’s chips are in more than 80 percent of the world’s
PCs, though the company has failed to parlay that dominance into
orders for mobile phones and tablet computers, where chips based
on ARM Holdings Plc technology have the majority of the market.  Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  said the company is
still on course to have its chips appear in phones “from a
variety of suppliers” in the first half of next year.  Exceeding Estimates  Today’s report marked the 12th consecutive quarter Intel
has posted higher sales than analysts had estimated, according
to Bloomberg data, countering predictions that its dependence on
personal computers would impede growth as more consumers opted
for handheld devices like Apple Inc.’s iPad and iPhone.  Apple today reported profit and sales that missed analysts’
expectations after selling fewer iPhones than predicted.  Gross margin, the only measure of profitability that Intel
forecasts, was 63.4 percent in the third quarter. The company’s
division that makes PC chips reported a 22 percent increase in
sales to $9.4 billion. Revenue in its Data Center Group, which
supplies server chips, climbed 15 percent to $2.5 billion.  The PC market  will grow  4.2 percent to 361.6 million units
this year as consumers buy fewer machines, according to market
researcher IDC. In the same period, the smartphone market will
jump 55 percent to 472 million units, making it bigger than PCs
by that measure for the first time, IDC said.  Surging sales of smartphones and tablet computers are
driving demand for the machines that provide them with data.
Those servers are powered by Intel’s more expensive Xeon range
of processors, helping buoy its profitability.  Still, Intel’s prediction of a fourth-quarter sales gain of
about 3 percent from the preceding three months -- at the lower
end of the average range of increases -- reflects concerns that
consumers in Western Europe will continue to hold off on
purchases, Intel’s Smith said today.  Consumer spending  is
usually concentrated in the fourth quarter during the end-of-
year holiday shopping season, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 