-- 
Investors Won’t Trust Europe’s Bond-Insurance Plan, M&G Says

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-10-18T14:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/investors-won-t-trust-plan-to-use-efsf-to-insure-bonds-m-g-says.html
Investors are unlikely to trust a
plan to use the euro region’s bailout fund to insure bonds from
euro-area nations because they doubt it could be called upon
when needed,  M&G Investments said .  “The idea that a sovereign-insurance policy provided by
the very same, or, at best, related group of stressed sovereigns
would provide reassurance to the market seems a ludicrous one,”
Tamara Burnell, an analyst at M&G in London, wrote in a blog on
the money manager’s website. The company had more than 199
billion pounds ($313 billion) of assets under management as of
March 31, according to its  website .  Policy makers are searching for a way to maximize the
effectiveness of the European Financial Stability Facility and
resolve the debt crisis that has pushed up borrowing for lower-
rated nations in the euro area. One option would be for the EFSF
to provide a partial guarantee for new bonds sold by distressed
euro-area governments. While strategists at Brockhouse & Cooper
Inc. say the plan to leverage the fund “would be fraught with
risk,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said it may reduce borrowing
costs for  Spain  and  Italy .  The euro weakened against the dollar for a second day today
amid concern European leaders will find it difficult to resolve
the region’s debt woes after the German government said
yesterday leaders won’t deliver a complete solution at an Oct.
23 summit.  Obligor, Guarantor  “The fundamental problem will be persuading investors that
they would ever be able to call on the insurance policy” when
they need to, M&G’s Burnell wrote. “The risks of the underlying
obligor and the guarantor, and the ultimate sovereign
guarantors, defaulting at the same time are highly correlated.”  The French 10-year bond yield climbed to as much as 114
basis points, or 1.14 percentage point, above its German
equivalent, surpassing 100 basis points for the first time since
the euro’s 1999 debut after Moody’s Investors Service said the
nation’s Aaa credit rating is under pressure as costs from the
crisis mount.  “An expanded, leveraged EFSF where  France  effectively
insures Italy’s and Spain’s debt will probably be the catalyst
for France to lose its top rating,”  Pierre Lapointe  and Alex Bellefleur at Brockhouse & Cooper in  Montreal  wrote in an
investor report today. “We are likely to remain structurally
negative on  Europe  even if this solution is brought forward in
the coming weeks.”  G-20 Endorsement  Group of 20 finance ministers and central banks endorsed
parts of an emerging plan to avoid a Greek default, bolster
banks and curb contagion on Oct. 15, following talks in Paris.
Magnifying the strength of the EFSF is one of the elements
intended to achieve that goal.  The plan would work “if accompanied by credible plans to
rein in public spending and deleverage in the countries taking
out the insurance,” Francesco Garzarelli, co-head of fixed-
income strategy at Goldman Sachs in  London , wrote in an e-mailed
note today. That would help narrow the difference in yield
between benchmark German bunds and Italian and Spanish debt, he
said.  Italian 10-year bonds yielded 388 basis points more than
German securities at 3:08 p.m. London time, with the spread 28
basis points wider in the past two days. The yield difference
between Spanish and German bonds was at 337 basis points.  There are risks to the insurance plan because the EFSF’s
mandate and strategy keep changing, Burnell said.  The documentation “could easily be changed on a political
whim,” and the fund would still lack the resources to deal with
a liquidity problem, she said. “If markets believe that this
proposal is a solution to the euro-zone sovereign debt crisis
then there is room for disappointment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  