-- 
Turkey Lira Weakens to Lowest in Two Weeks, Paring Boost From Central Bank

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-18T12:57:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/lira-drops-to-two-week-low-paring-boost-from-central-bank.html
The lira headed for the lowest level
in two weeks after the central bank sold $750 million,
reinforcing speculation that it may fail to stem the lira’s
depreciation because its foreign exchange reserves are limited.  The lira depreciated for a second day and traded 0.2
percent weaker at 1.8696 per dollar at 3:12 a.m. in Istanbul,
raising this year’s losses to 17.6 percent, the second worst
performance among emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after  South Africa ’s rand.  The lira’s depreciation today "should be seen as a signal
of serious demand in the market’’ for foreign currency, Burak Ahmet Ustay, assistant general manager at WestLB AG, in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Turkey ’s central bank has sold dollars in auctions since
Aug. 5 in an effort to stem the currency’s declines. Today’s
sale amount was the largest since Oct. 5 when it also sold $750
million after the lira reached a record-low of 1.9096 per dollar
the previous day, as Turkey’s widening current-account deficit
and European financial woes dented investor confidence in
Turkey’s financial stability.  “What the central bank sold today is only enough to cover
two-days’ current account deficit,” Ustay said.  The Ankara-based bank’s efforts to defend the lira against
further losses “could still end in tears” Tim Ash, head of
global emerging markets for Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
 London , said in an e-mailed report today. “The central bank is
clearly mindful of the fact that it has pretty limited foreign
exchange reserve cover.”  The central bank’s foreign exchange reserves declined $2.4
billion in the week to Oct. 7 to $85.1 billion, the lowest level
since February.  “The market is challenging the central bank’s commitment
and its capacity to contain the  currency depreciation ,” HSBC
currency strategist Murat Toprak said in a e-mailed comments.
“The central bank has now no choice but to be more
aggressive.”  Yields on the two-year benchmark bond fell 4 basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, lower at 8.63 percent, according to
the Turk Ekonomi Bankasi index, falling for the first day in
four.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  