-- 
Iran Seeks to Ease Saudi Tensions After U.S. Plot Allegation

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-10-18T09:10:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/iran-seeks-to-ease-saudi-tensions-after-u-s-plot-allegation.html
The Iranian Foreign Ministry sought
to ease tensions with  Saudi Arabia  after the U.S. accused Iran 
of plotting to murder the Saudi ambassador in  Washington .  “Saudi Arabia is a powerful and great country in the
region,” Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast 
told reporters in Tehran today. The U.S. allegation “aims to
create a rift” between Iran and Saudi Arabia and states in the
region “mustn’t let baseless accusations divide them.”  The U.S. Justice Department accused Iran on Oct. 11 of
sponsoring a plot to assassinate Saudi envoy Adel Al-Jubeir. The
announcement has led to an escalation of tension between the two
Gulf nations, with Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal saying
Oct. 13 that the “dastardly act” reflects Iran’s policies and
his country will hold  Iran  “accountable for any action taken.”  The Sunni Muslim kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Iran, led by
Shiite Muslim clerics, are the top two producers in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and regional
rivals.  The Iranian government has rejected the allegation and
today reiterated its call for the U.S. to provide supporting
facts.  “If they have a claim they need to offer hard evidence,”
Mehmanparast said in comments aired live on state television.
“We have asked and haven’t seen anything yet.”  “They simply raise a claim, detain someone and say he has
links to Iranian officials and then they make threats,”
Mehmanparast said. “All this shows that this is a scenario.”  The conspiracy involved a secret military unit of Iran and
a native Iranian with a U.S. passport, who is in custody, U.S.
officials said. President  Barack Obama ’s administration has used
the case to underline its portrayal of Iran, which it already
accuses of seeking to develop nuclear weapons, as a rogue state
that threatens global security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  