-- 
Ireland May Seek to Transfer Allied Irish Rescue Cost to EU

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-10-18T16:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/ireland-may-seek-to-transfer-cost-of-allied-irish-rescue-to-eu.html
Ireland may try to transfer part of
the 62 billion-euro ($85 billion) cost of bailing out its banks
to the euro-region’s rescue fund should policy makers allow the
facility to buy stakes directly in lenders, three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The state may seek to recoup a portion of the 20.7 billion
euros it spent bailing out  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  from the
European Financial Stability Facility, said two of the people,
who declined to be identified because no decision has been made.
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  has indicated he may use the
EFSF to replace some of the 29 billion euros the government
provided Anglo Irish Bank Corp., the first to be nationalized.  Three years after guaranteeing its banks, a decision that
forced Ireland to seek an international bailout last year,
officials want the country to benefit retroactively if EU policy
makers expand the EFSF’s remit to invest directly in banks.
Noonan has said Irish banks don’t require additional capital.  “The aim seems to be to put the fund to use for European
banks that need fresh capital,” said Colm Ryan, head of fixed
income at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin. “Ireland may be able
to refinance”  Anglo Irish , he said. “Given Ireland has already
recapitalized its banks, I don’t think it would be so easy to
tap the fund to replace capital that has already gone into other
banks.”  The  International Monetary Fund  said Sept. 7 it estimates
Ireland’s general government debt will peak at 118 percent of
gross domestic product in 2013, equivalent to almost 200 billion
euros. That’s up from 25 percent of GDP in 2007.  ‘In the Game Retrospectively’  A Finance Ministry spokesman said yesterday Ireland is
“considering all options.” Noonan said on Oct. 6 he has been
“positioning a renegotiation of the costs” of bailing out
Anglo Irish. Still, there have been no talks on whether “we can
get back in the game retrospectively,” he said.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said today the country is
“constantly” seeking to move the “agenda” to achieve a
reduction in the country’s debt burden.  “I don’t want to see a situation where an opportunity is
lost to reduce the debt burden,” Kenny said in the Irish
parliament in Dublin today. Kenny said that he wants to make
sure that any measures reached at the Oct. 23 summit of European
leaders are “fair across the board.”  Ireland injected 46 billion euros into its banks before
receiving 85 billion euros in a bailout led by the International
Monetary Fund and European Union last year. The state then
injected a further 16.5 billion euros into the banks, about the
same as the amount the government was required to put up to
receive the bailout.  “There is no sign yet that there will be a softer deal
anywhere else with the exception of  Greece  whose banking system
is in much difficulty,” Noonan said on Oct. 6 in Ireland’s
upper house of parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  