-- 
Islamists Lead Polls Before Tunisian Election

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 
2011-10-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/islamists-lead-polls-before-first-democratic-tunisia-election.html
Tunisia , the first country to rise
up in the so-called Arab Spring, may also become the region’s
first new democracy to vote an Islamist party into power.  Ennahdha, an Islamic party legalized only six months ago,
is the front-runner in the Oct. 23 vote to choose an assembly to
write a new constitution, according to an OpinionWay poll
released just before a pre-election polling ban took effect on
Oct. 1. The party says it won’t impose its views on what is now
the most secular country in the region.  Tunisia’s election has the potential to set an example for
post-revolutionary countries such as  Egypt  and  Libya , and for
monarchies Morocco and Jordan as they allow more democracy. For
Ennahdha, it’s a test of whether Arab Islamic movements can
follow  Turkey ’s ruling AKP party in marrying Islam and democracy
while attracting foreign investment.  “A big win for the Islamists could scare some investors
away,” said Slim Feriani, London-based chief executive officer
of Advance Emerging Capital Ltd., which manages $750 million in
frontier and developing-nation stocks. “The best result for
markets would be if you don’t get a single party dominating.”  Tunisian stocks have outperformed this year. The benchmark
TUNINDEX is down 9.5 percent, compared with 17.4 percent for the
 MSCI Emu (MXEM)  Index of leading European stocks.  Departing President  President Zine el Abidine Ben Ali was deposed Jan. 14 in a
popular revolt, putting an end to a 23-year reign marked by
political repression and corruption.  The assembly Tunisians will create in the country’s first-
ever free vote will be charged with writing a constitution,
leading to another round of elections in a year. More than 100
political parties and about 1,000 independent slates of
candidates are running. The 217 seats will be decided by a
proportional system.  The four main non-Islamic parties in this country of 11
million say they are modeled on European Social-Democratic
parties. The PDP, or Progressive Democrat Party, for instance,
pledges a pro-business stance, better social services and
separation of politics from religion.  “After 50 years of being too frightened, there are now too
many parties, too many discourses,” said Maya Jribi, a 51-year
old lawyer who is deputy head of the party.  Jribi said the Progressive Democrats will try to ally in
the assembly with all other centrist parties to outvote
 Ennahdha . Attempts by another party, the Modernist Democratic
Pole, to create a pre-election multiparty coalition failed.  Market Favor  In the market in Tunis’s Medina old city, several merchants
said they favor Ennahdha because they see its past opposition to
Ben Ali as giving it more distance from the regime.  “It’s not a religious question, it’s that Ennahdha is
honest and serious,” said Abdelmajid, a 38-year-old jewelry
vendor. After 50 years of dictatorship, most Tunisians decline
to give their family names when giving street interviews.  “Jobs and security are the main issues, everything else is
way behind,” said another Ennahdha supporter, Amir, 28, as he
sat in front of his jewelry stall next door. “I don’t want a
religious state and I don’t see the risk.”  A poll by Paris-based  OpinionWay  carried out Sept. 22-24
showed 25 percent of respondents would vote for Ennahdha, 16
percent for the PDP and 14 percent for Ettakatol, another party
with positions similar to the PDP.  The poll, which involved 1,034 respondents with a three
percentage-point margin of error, also indicated 44 percent of
voters may still change their minds. No polls have been allowed
since the official start of the campaign Oct. 1.  Unreliable Polls?  Al-Watad, which has pledged to rewrite Tunisia’s trade
accord with the European Union to make foreign companies pay
more taxes, and the Modernist Democrats, an alliance of parties
close to the views of the Progressive Democrats and Ettakatol,
both say the polls aren’t reliable and that they are in the No.
2 slot behind Ennahdha.  “Ennahdha has a retrograde program based on religion,”
says Ahmed Brahim, who runs the main party in the Modernist
Democratic grouping. “In the media they play soft music to
soothe voters and foreigners. When no one is around they push
for Islamic law and polygamy.”  Ennahdha leaders say they support religious freedom for all
and won’t touch Tunisia’s family law, which in the 1950s
abolished polygamy and gave women equal rights with men,
including for divorce. Tunisia legalized contraception and
abortion in the 1960s, before France.  “We will defend tooth and nail the rights of women when it
comes to voting, education, equality and work,” said Ali
Laarayedh, the head of the party’s constitution committee.  Turkish Example?  Not everyone says an Ennahdha election would hurt Tunisia’s
economy, based on the example of Turkey. The Turkish benchmark
 ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  has risen sixfold since the AKP’s March
2003 election.  Tunisia’s per-capita income was $4,060 in 2010 and 78
percent of the population was literate, the  World Bank  says,
more than Egypt’s $2,440 per-capita income and 66 percent
literacy rate.  “I’ve been working with three European clients looking to
buy assets in Tunisia,” said Geoff Porter, founder of  North
Africa Risk Consulting Inc. , a Connecticut-based risk advisory
group. “They are well aware of Ennahdha’s strength and don’t
seem deterred. I think investors have become more sophisticated.
An Ennahdha government might push for changes on matters such as
education and social policy, but not on matters that affect
investment.”  In the Village  Ennahdha, founded in the 1980s, is benefiting from its
organization and from its history of opposition to Ben Ali, said
Azzedine Layachi, professor of Middle East affairs at  St. John’s
University  in  New York .  “It’s natural that people who were most repressed by the
old regime are now at the forefront,” he said.  Ennahdha official Laarayedh, who spent 19 years in jail and
had a death sentence commuted in 1987, is sincere, said the
Progressive Democrats’ Jribi. At the village level, though, out
of sight of cameras, Ennahdha representatives tell women to wear
headscarves and advocate Islamic law, she said.  Laarayedh denied his party presents different views
depending on the setting. Under Ben Ali, pious Tunisians in
beards or headscarves were kept out of universities and many
jobs, reducing them to second-class citizens who could only work
in textile factories, Laarayedh said.  History and Traditions  “We don’t want a religious state but we want a state that
allows Tunisians to live their religion,” said Laarayedh,
accusing centrist parties of wanting to maintain the status quo.
“We don’t want a state that cuts people off from their history
and traditions.”  On the economy, the party says its position is little
different from the secular parties. Its views on family values
and culture are closer to those of European  Christian Democrats ,
who generally support a greater role for religious morality in
setting social policy, he said.  Politically, Ennahdha favors a parliamentary system with a
ceremonial head of state, while the PDP and other centrist
parties support creating a strong presidency. The party wants to
work with other parties on governing Tunisia and writing the
constitution, even if it wins a majority, Laarayedh said.  “I don’t see why there should be that much concern about
Ennahdha,” said Layachi, the professor. “Tunisians are not
likely to go along with revamping their secular lifestyle.”  Wearing Jeans  That secularism is visible on Avenue Bourguiba in Tunis,
named after Habib Bourguiba, who led Tunisia’s independence
struggle against  France  after World War II and was named
president in 1957. Under the plane trees, couples sit in outdoor
cafes drinking beer, with women wearing everything from tight
jeans to headscarves.  Tunisians will vote for party lists in 33 constituencies,
six of them overseas. Only four parties have presented lists in
every district, and almost half the lists have no link to a
party. Ettakatol is the only centrist party that declares itself
willing to work with Ennahdha.  “Ennahdha is not an enemy,” said Khemais Ksila, a 55-
year-old former human-rights activist who spent three years in
prisons and 10 years exiled in France. He now heads a party list
in Tunis. “We don’t agree with its social program but see no
interest in excluding it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Hertling
at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  