-- 
Bini Smaghi Is Said to Be Berlusconi’s Choice as Governor of Bank of Italy

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-10-20T14:11:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/italy-punching-below-political-weight-revealed-in-draghi-succession-fight.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
probably will nominate European Central Bank Executive Board
member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi as governor of the  Bank of Italy ,
ending months of wrangling over  Mario Draghi ’s successor, a
member of the government said.  The prime minister plans to nominate Bini Smaghi to the
central bank’s Board of Directors, said a deputy minister who
was informed of Berlusconi’s decision and declined to be
identified. The announcement comes less than two weeks before
Draghi succeeds  Jean-Claude Trichet  as ECB president and four
months after he was first nominated for the post.  Berlusconi began a meeting in Rome with his top ministers
to discuss the nomination at about 4 p.m., news agency Ansa
reporter.  Naming Bini Smaghi would ease tensions with  France . French
President Nicolas Sarkozy originally agreed to support Draghi’s
candidacy for the ECB in return for Berlusconi getting Bini
Smaghi to resign from the ECB’s Executive Board to make way for
a French member. Bini Smaghi has refused to step down before his
term ends in 2013.  The squabbling over the nomination reflects the political
gridlock that has tripped up Berlusconi at a time when the 75-
year-old premier is struggling to convince investors that he can
tame the euro area’s second-biggest debt. Italy’s 10-year bonds
fell for a third day, with the yield reaching 5.934 percent,
the highest since before the ECB began backstopping the
nation’s debt on Aug. 8.  ‘Internal Crisis’  The failure to pick a governor is the latest sign of “the
government’s internal crisis,” said  Robert Leonardi , senior
lecturer in European politics at Luiss University in Rome. “It
also shows the lack of leadership of Berlusconi.”  Berlusconi was also considering Bank of Italy Director
General Fabrizio Saccomanni and Vittorio Grilli, the director
general of the Italian Treasury.  Berlusconi was initially prepared to nominate Saccomanni,
though the process bogged down as Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  pushed for Grilli to limit Draghi’s influence over the
Bank of Italy, Italian newspaper Il Sole 24-Ore reported on
Sept. 28. Tremonti was backed by  Umberto Bossi , leader of
Berlusconi’s key coalition ally, the  Northern League , who said
the same day that he also wanted Grilli because he’s from Milan,
his party’s power base.  Berlusconi’s Shortlist  Tremonti released a statement yesterday denying a report in
newspaper  Corriere della Sera  that he had been calling the
directors of the central bank to pressure them to back Grilli.  Berlusconi said on Oct. 18 that Bini Smaghi was on his
“short list,” the only candidate he mentioned by name. While
Italian newspapers had reported that Draghi favored Saccomanni,
the incoming ECB president, who currently serves on the ECB’s
Governing Council, has worked closely with Bini Smaghi in
setting monetary policy for the euro region.  “If you look at it from a European perspective, it looks
like a no brainer,” said Riccardo Barbieri, chief European
economist at Mizuho International Plc in London. Italy needs
“to find a good job for Bini Smaghi, that’s the story, and Bini
Smaghi is a very competent guy,” he said.  Bini Smaghi, a Florence native with a doctorate from the
University of Chicago, began his career as an economist at the
Bank of Italy’s research department. He also served a stint at
the  Finance Ministry  under Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, who later went
on to become premier.  Once Berlusconi makes the nomination, the central bank’s
Board of Directors will issue an opinion on the candidate to
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano, who has to give final
approval the appointment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  