-- 
J&J CFO Says Private Labels Took Over-Counter Market Share

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-10-18T20:09:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/j-j-says-private-labels-took-over-the-counter-market-share.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  has lost
“significant” market share in over-the-counter drugs to
privately owned brands after recalling dozens of products in the
past two years, Chief Financial Officer Dominic Caruso said.  The drugmaker plans to use coupons and product innovations
to promote the business next year, Caruso today said in a
conference call with analysts. J&J, based in  New Brunswick , New
Jersey, is optimistic about regaining lost territory, since
consumer surveys show its children’s medicines still have
mothers’ loyalty, he said.  “Our marketers are very good at knowing what they need to
do to attract consumers,” Caruso said. The company will
reintroduce its products with “a mix of brand marketing and
expenses, couponing, innovation, etc., a surround-sound impact
to get consumers back.”  Quality problems have forced J&J to recall more than 40
consumer drugs since last year, among them children’s Tylenol,
Motrin and St. Joseph Aspirin. Over-the-counter sales in the
U.S. fell by 24 percent, or $106 million, in this year’s third
quarter, the company said in an earnings report today.  “Given that they’ve been off the shelves, and in a weak
economy, it’s natural that a lot of people moved to private
labels,”  Jeff Jonas , a Gabelli & Co. analyst in Rye,  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “It is going to be tough to
bring them back because people see those other products work
just fine and they’re cheaper.”  Permanent Loss  The recalls by J&J’s McNeil Consumer Healthcare division
may lead to “a permanent loss of share,” Jonas said.  J&J shares rose 1 percent to $64.42 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The stock has gained 4.2 percent so far this year.  McNeil’s woes have helped lower-cost drugstore brands like
those sold by  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , said  Erik Gordon , a University of Michigan business professor in  Ann Arbor 
who follows the health-care industry.  “J&J marketers are good, but the people who own the shelf
space, the Walgreens and CVS, like having more space and sales
going to their own house brands that give them higher margins,”
he said in an e-mail.  McNeil brought its Tylenol Cold & Flu caplets back to the
market earlier this year, Louise Mehrotra, J&J’s vice president
for  investor relations , said on the call. It still expects to
return “the balance of the portfolio” in 2012, she said.  Private-labels have taken “ a significant amount of
share,” Caruso told analysts. Nonetheless, he said J&J research
had found that mothers rated “the trust factor” for McNeil’s
pediatric products at twice that of competitors.  Acquisitions  The company has filled some of the gap with acquisitions,
Jonas said. J&J in September said it would pay $175 million to
buy out Merck & Co.’s share of their joint consumer-products
venture, which makes Pepcid and Mylanta. In May, it agreed to
buy Russia’s leading cough and cold medicines from J.B.
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. for about $260 million.  Merck is based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , and J.B.
Chemicals in Mumbai.  Third-quarter profit fell 6.4 percent, held down by generic
competition for prescription drugs and costs related to its
purchase of orthopedics company Synthes Inc., J&J said today.
Boosted by favorable currency-exchange rates, sales climbed 6.8
percent, helping J&J to beat analyst estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 