-- 
J&J Third-Quarter Profit Declines on Generics

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-10-18T20:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/j-j-third-quarter-profit-declines-as-generic-rivals-take-sales.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
second-biggest seller of health-care products, said third-
quarter profit slipped 6.4 percent as the company spent more to
promote new drugs and lost sales to generic competition.  Net income dropped to $3.2 billion, or $1.15 a share, from
$3.42 billion, or $1.23, a year earlier, the  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based company said in a statement. Earnings adjusted for
one-time items topped analyst estimates. J&J also raised the
lower-end of its forecast for full-year profit.  Chief Executive Officer William C. Weldon won approvals for
a quartet of drugs this year, including the prostate-cancer
medicine Zytiga. While spending more to market those products,
J&J also faced generic rivals to the antibiotic Levaquin and
attention deficit remedy Concerta. The two drugs generated
almost 5 percent of J&J’s revenue last year.  “When your U.S. pharmaceutical business is down 6 percent,
that hurts,” said Matt Miksic, a Piper Jaffray & Co. analyst in
New York, in a telephone interview. “We were looking for weaker
pharma, and it was weaker.”  The numbers were offset by encouraging sales from outside
the U.S., Miksic said. Helped by currency-exchange rates,
revenue grew in all three of J&J’s divisions -- consumer-
products, medical devices and drugs -- for an overall increase
of 16 percent. Worldwide, sales climbed 6.8 percent to $16
billion.  Losing Market Share  Johnson & Johnson sales have suffered the last two years
after recalling millions of defective over-the-counter
medicines, hip implants and  prescription drugs . In April, the
company announced its biggest deal ever, the $20.3 billion
purchase of orthopedics company Synthes Inc., in part to offset
slowing device sales.  The company has lost “significant” market share in over-
the-counter drugs to private labels, Chief Financial Officer
Dominic Caruso said on a conference call. The company will use
coupons and product innovations to recoup lost territory, he
said.  “Our marketers are very good at knowing what they need to
do to attract consumers,” Caruso said. The company will
reintroduce its products with “a mix of brand marketing and
expenses, couponing, innovation, etc., a surround-sound impact
to get consumers back.”  Earnings adjusted for one-time items of $1.24 a share beat
by 3 cents the average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The company raised the lower end of its annual
forecast and now predicts $4.95 to $5 a share compared with a
previous target of $4.90 to $5.  ‘Cautious’ About Conditions  “We’re still cautious about the overall macroeconomic
conditions and their impact on health care,” Caruso said on the
call. “We’re very positive about how we stack up in that
marketplace given new product launches.”  J&J rose 1 percent to $64.42 at 4 p.m.  New York  time. The
stock has gained 4.2 percent so far this year.  Sales of over-the-counter products like Tylenol, which have
slowly returned to the market this year, fell 9.4 percent, not
including the effects of currency-exchange rates, with a $106
million drop in the U.S. Overall, J&J’s consumer division, which
also sells skin and baby-care products and other items, rose a
half-percent, excluding currency rates.  Pharmaceutical sales jumped 8.9 percent to $5.98 billion.
J&J’s biggest unit, its medical-devices division, had a revenue
increase of 6.1 percent to $6.28 billion.  Drug Sales  The generic competitors cost J&J “a few hundred million in
sales,” said  Jeff Jonas , a Gabelli & Co. analyst in Rye, New
York, in an interview before today’s announcement. “And they’re
still investing pretty heavily to launch their new drugs.”  Sales were boosted by a weakened  U.S. dollar  for most of
the quarter, which increased the value of revenue earned outside
the U.S., the company said. That’s likely to reverse in the
fourth quarter and next year, as the dollar gained value over
the last month amid the European debt crisis, Matthew Dodds, a
Citigroup analyst, said in an Oct. 3 note.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , based in New York, is the biggest health-care
company by sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 