-- 
J&J Says FDA Seeks More Information on Fibrin Pad for Bleeding

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-10-18T19:54:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/j-j-says-fda-seeks-more-information-on-fibrin-pad-for-bleeding.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the biggest maker
of medical devices, said U.S. regulators have asked for more
information on the Fibrin Pad, its experimental drug-device
combination to stop bleeding during surgery.  In a letter last month, the Food and Drug Administration
said it needs more information before ruling on whether the
product should be allowed on the market, Kristen Wallace, a J&J
spokeswoman, said today in a telephone interview. She wouldn’t
discuss details of the letter except to say the company doesn’t
plan to conduct new clinical trials.  The pad is coated with two drugs designed to speed clotting
in patients and would offer surgeons an alternative to
tourniquets and ligatures. It may eventually generate “hundreds
of millions of dollars” in annual sales for  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J, said  Jeff Jonas , a Gabelli & Co. analyst, in a
telephone interview.  “Most people did have high expectations for the device,”
said Jonas, based in Rye,  New York , who has a "buy" rating on
the stock. “If they don’t need any new clinical trials, that’s
a positive.”  Wallace said J&J’s Ethicon unit, which makes the Fibrin
Pad, will file an answer with the FDA. After that, the agency
will have up six months to respond, she said.  Future Plans  J&J is moving forward with plans for the pad, the company’s
vice-president for  investor relations , Louise Mehrotra, said
today on an earnings conference call with analysts. That
includes building “a state-of-the art facility to scale up
supply,” she said.  The facility will be located in  Jerusalem , Wallace said.
She declined to provide more details.  J&J bought Omrix Biopharmaceuticals Inc., the company that
began research on the experimental pad, for $438 million in
November 2008.  The company reported earlier today that third-quarter
profit fell 6.4 percent to $3.2 billion, held down by generic
competition for  prescription drugs  and costs related to its
purchase of orthopedics company Synthes Inc. Boosted by
favorable currency-exchange rates, sales climbed 6.8 percent to
$16 billion, helping J&J top analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  