-- 
Japanese Stock Futures, Australian Shares Rise on U.S. Earnings

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 
2011-10-18T23:36:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/japanese-stock-futures-australian-shares-rise-on-u-s-earnings.html
Japanese  stock futures  and
Australian shares rose on signs a global economic recovery may
be strengthening after Bank of America Corp. swung to a profit
and Intel Corp. forecast sales that beat analyst estimates,
boosting the earnings outlook for Asian companies.  American depositary receipts of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the
world’s biggest carmaker, rose 1.5 percent from the closing
share price in Tokyo. Those of  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,
Japan’s third-largest bank by market value, gained 1.6 percent
after Bank of America climbed 10 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, gained 0.4 percent after crude
oil rose to the highest level in more than a month. Australian
bank shares also increased.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,870 in Chicago yesterday, up from 8,750 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,820 in Osaka,
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained
0.5 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.9 percent
in Wellington.  “There’s bound to be some residual optimism because of the
strong gains in U.S. on the back of some earnings optimism,”
said Will Seddon, who helps oversee more than $300 million at
White Funds Management in Sydney. “We’re bound to see some
positive momentum in Asian markets, but the risks with the
European situation are still very, very high.”  U.S. Shares Rally  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index fell 0.5 percent
today. In New York yesterday, the index rose 2 percent to the
highest level since August after the National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index climbed to 18, the
highest level since May 2010, the Washington-based group
reported yesterday.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. added 5.5 percent even after
reporting its second quarterly loss in 12 years as the firm lost
money on investments and revenue declined from trading, asset
management and securities underwriting. Intel also reported
results after the market close. The shares gained 3.9 percent to
$24.32, after rising 0.5 percent in regular trading.  “Intel has rose in after-hours trading and Bank of
America’s earnings led gains in U.S. financial shares, which
should cause chipmakers and financial equities to be bought in
Asia as well as well,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities manager
in  Tokyo  at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  The  S&P 500  rose from the threshold of a  bear market  early
this month amid optimism over corporate earnings and steps by
European leaders to support banks from the region’s sovereign
debt crisis.  Rating Cut  France and Germany are engaged in “intensive talks” on
bolstering the European Financial Stability Facility, Steffen
Seibert, German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s chief spokesman, said.
He declined in an interview to comment on a report in the
Guardian that they reached agreement on increasing the size of
the fund, saying he won’t comment on intermediate results of the
negotiations.  Spain’s credit rating was cut for the third time since June
2010 by Moody’s Investors Service as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis threatens to engulf the nation. Moody’s reduced  Spain ’s
ranking to its fifth-highest investment grade, cutting it by two
levels to A1 from Aa2, with the outlook remaining negative, the
rating company said yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s downgraded Spain on Oct. 14 to its
fourth-highest investment grade after  Fitch Ratings  cut it to
the same level on Oct. 7, the day it also downgraded Italy.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 15 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 2.6 percent drop by the S&P
500 and a 15 percent loss by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.8 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.3 times for the S&P 500
and 10.1 times for the Stoxx 600.  Crude oil for November delivery rose $1.96 to $88.34 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement price since Sept. 15. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
CRB Index of raw materials added 0.1 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 