-- 
Japan Property Bankruptcies to Rise in 2012, Researcher Says

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-10-18T07:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/japan-real-estate-bankruptcies-to-rise-in-2012-researcher-says.html
More Japanese property companies may
file for bankruptcy in 2012 as banks become more selective to
improve their balance sheets as the outlook in the U.S. and
 Europe  deteriorates,  Tokyo  Shoko Research Ltd. said.  About 500 real estate companies may go under next year, up
from about 450 this year, according to estimates by Nobuo Tomoda,
 executive director  at Tokyo Shoko. A total of 441 went bankrupt
in 2010, the data showed. The Topix Real Estate Index fell the
most in more than three weeks.  Japanese banks may seek to improve their balance sheets by
cutting back on riskier loans amid concern that the outlook for
the  U.S. economy  will worsen and the European debt crisis may
drag on, prompting them to limit the number of property
companies they lend to, Tomoda said. Suncity Co., a condominium
developer with 25 billion yen ($325 million) of debt, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 26 after it failed to get
extensions on loans, according to a statement.  “We have entered a period with the highest probability of
bankruptcies,” Tomoda said yesterday in an interview in Tokyo.
“We are likely to see some real estate companies go bust all
together.”  The Topix Real Estate Index fell 2.2 percent at the close
in Tokyo, the biggest decline since Sept. 26. The broader Topix
index retreated 1.4 percent.  Bigger Market Share  Japan’s top seven developers have a 51 percent share of the
apartment market in Tokyo as of 2010, an increase from 30
percent three years earlier, according to a report by  Masahiro Mochizuki , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.  The nation’s real estate market picked up in 2007 when
investment into property funds nearly doubled to 11 trillion yen,
according to STB Research Institute Co. That prompted developers
to buy more land, and companies including Suncity were left with
more debt than they could repay after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  “Financing is much more crucial for real estate companies
in comparison with other sectors,” Tomoda said. “Without
funding, real estate can’t be brought. And without properties,
there’s nothing to sell.”  The smaller real estate companies may be hurt by banks’
decisions to cut back on loans, prompting a higher number of
bankruptcies even as the total debt of companies that go under
may drop this year and next, he said.  Almost one in three of the 159 publicly traded property
companies in  Japan  have debt that’s more than twice their equity,
a level that needs to be monitored closely for bankruptcies next
year, Tomoda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  