-- 
Japan Said Preparing to Relax Curbs on U.S. Beef Imports

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-10-18T09:48:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/japan-prepares-to-relax-restrictions-on-u-s-beef-imports.html
Japan  is preparing to ease
restrictions on U.S. beef imports as concerns about mad cow
disease receded and domestic cattle production fell after the
nation’s worst nuclear disaster since World War II.  Japan, the biggest buyer of American beef before an
outbreak in 2003, restricts U.S. beef imports to cattle aged 20
months or younger on concern that older animals may be at higher
risk for the brain-wasting disease, also known as bovine
spongiform encephalopathy. The government is considering raising
the age limit to 30 months, said two ministry officials who
declined to be named because of department policy.  The new rule may boost purchases from companies including
 Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and Cargill Inc., and contribute to President
Barack Obama’s target to double exports in five years and create
more jobs. The restriction, relaxed in 2005 to allow meat from
young cattle, caused about $1 billion in lost sales a year,
according to the  National Cattlemen’s Beef Association .  “We have exchanged opinions on the issue through expert-
level talks between the two governments, and we hope it will be
resolved accordingly,” Agriculture Minister Michihiko Kano told
reporters in Tokyo today, declining to provide a timeframe for a
decision.  Record Prices  Cattle futures rose to a record for the second-straight
session yesterday on signs that U.S. supplies are shrinking as
export demand climbs. Futures for December delivery reached
$1.24475 a pound, the highest for a most-active contract since
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange began trading live cattle in
1964. Prices were little changed at $1.23775 a pound at 6:01
p.m. in  Tokyo .  Spokesman Takahiro Hiramoto from the health ministry said
the department hadn’t made a decision yet about raising the age
limit to 30 months. Tatsuya Kajishima, senior press counselor
for the agriculture ministry, said no schedule has been set.  Japan’s Food Safety Commission must confirm that any change
in policy won’t increase human health risks before the country
can import beef from older U.S. cattle. Japan also requires U.S.
meat shippers to remove risk materials such as spinal cords,
which can transmit the disease to humans if consumed.  A decade-long study by the Japanese government showed that
most cases of BSE were found in cattle older than 30 months.  If Japan relaxes the age limit, U.S. shipments will likely
return to pre-ban levels, said Susumu Harada, senior director at
the Tokyo office of the  U.S. Meat Export Federation .  “The change would help normalize beef trade as U.S.
products for overseas shipments are mostly from cattle aged up
to 24 months,” Harada said in a telephone interview today.  Gyudon Beef Bowl  Japan banned U.S. beef in December 2003, prompting
restaurant chain operator Yoshinoya Holdings Co. to suspend
sales of its “gyudon” beef bowl. The U.S. was the largest beef
exporter to Japan after  Australia  in 2003, supplying 267,583
metric tons worth 128.5 billion yen ($1.7 billion), data from
the agriculture ministry showed.  In the eight months ended Aug. 31, Japan imported 76,892
tons of U.S. beef, surging 48 percent from a year earlier, as
the yen’s rally to a postwar record against the dollar made
American produce more affordable to Japanese consumers. Concern
about the safety of domestic beef also boosted imports as
fallout from a crippled Fukushima nuclear station tainted
Japanese cattle feed and meat, Harada said.  Fukushima Ban  Japan banned shipments from Fukushima and three other
prefectures for about a month after farmers fed cattle tainted
rice hay, producing beef containing radioactive cesium exceeding
the government’s official limit. Contaminated beef was sold at
supermarkets, deepening consumer safety concerns and slashing
sales and prices of domestic beef.  In 2007, Japan proposed a plan to ease the restriction on
U.S. beef imports to allow meat from cattle aged up to 30 months
under the former government of the  Liberal Democratic Party . The
administration of President  George W. Bush  had urged Japan to
eliminate the age limitation completely, in line with
international standards, and the deadlock continued.  Japan and the U.S. held their first working-level meeting
in three years in September 2010, based on an agreement reached
in April last year between Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and
then Agriculture Minister Hirotaka Akamatsu to resume beef
talks.  The World Organization for  Animal Health , also known as
OIE, voted in May 2007 to give the U.S. its “controlled-risk”
rating for mad cow disease. The designation means controls are
effective, and meat from U.S. cattle of any age can be safely
traded. The OIE standards are used to settle trade disputes at
the  World Trade Organization .  Editors: Jarrett Banks,  Richard Dobson   To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  