-- 
John Brown, the Antislavery Entrepreneur (Part 2): Tony Horwitz

-- B y   T o n y   H o r w i t z
-- 
2011-10-18T00:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/john-brown-antislavery-entrepreneur-part-2-commentary-by-tony-horwitz.html
In this, the  second  of five
excerpts from his new  book , “Midnight Rising: John Brown
and the Raid That Sparked the Civil War,” author Tony
Horwitz continues the story of the legendary abolitionist
as he braves the tumult of the wool market and attaches
himself, more and more strongly, to the cause of slavery’s
destruction:  In the 1840s, as John Brown battled back from
bankruptcy, his eldest son became enamored of phrenology.
This pseudo-science held that a person’s character could be
read in the contours of his skull. Brown consented to a
“reading” by a leading phrenologist, Orson Fowler, who
seems to have gleaned insight from the words and manner of
his subject. In any event, his notes on Brown were acute.  “You have a pretty good opinion of yourself -- would
rather lead than be led,” Fowler wrote. “You like to have
your own way, and to think and act for yourself … are
positive in your likes and dislikes, ‘go the whole figure
or nothing’ & want others to do the same.” He added: “You
like to do business on a large scale, and can make money
better than save it.”  Fowler wrote this in early 1847, as Brown embarked on
an ambitious venture. A few years earlier, he had formed a
partnership with a wealthy Ohio man to raise sheep and sell
fine wool. Brown was a skilled shepherd, and the
partnership prospered. But as Fowler noted, Brown liked to
think big and was very certain of his judgment. Others who
knew him described this as “fixedness.”  Wool Business  In this instance, Brown became fixed on the notion
that textile manufacturers were fleecing wool producers. He
prevailed on his partner to establish a depot in
Springfield,  Massachusetts , where Brown could buy and grade
wool and sell it at a better price, while collecting a
broker’s commission.  Brown may have been right that producers were
exploited. But his stubborn clinging to the notion was a
liability in the wildly fluctuating wool market of the
1840s. When prices plunged, Brown refused to sell; wool and
unpaid bills quickly piled up at the depot. Brown also
seemed saddled with a growing ambivalence toward business,
fed partly by his father’s lifelong admonitions against
vanity and materialism.  “I sometimes have dreadful reflections about having
fled to go down to Tarshish,” Brown wrote his father from
Springfield. In the Bible, Tarshish is the trade port that
Jonah sets sail for in an attempt to escape God’s will --
only to be swallowed by a whale and then released to do the
Lord’s bidding as a preacher to nonbelievers.  But if Springfield tested Brown’s acumen and
dedication as a businessman, it proved an excellent place
to pursue the true mission he believed God had given him.
The city had a large population of fugitive slaves and was
a regular stop on the abolitionist speaking circuit. In
late 1847, Brown invited the famous orator and escaped
slave, Frederick Douglass, to his home, which the black
abolitionist described as extremely humble, with
furnishings that “would have satisfied a Spartan.” Douglass
also described the wool merchant, then in his late 40s, as
“lean, strong and sinewy,” standing “straight and
symmetrical as a mountain pine,” with eyes “full of light
and fire.”  Army of Liberation  After dinner, Brown showed Douglass a map of the
Allegheny Mountains and shared the radical plan he had long
mulled. Running diagonally south from  Pennsylvania  into
Maryland and  Virginia , and filled with natural forts and
caves, the Alleghenies had been placed by God “for the
emancipation of the negro race,” Brown said. He planned to
use the mountains as a base for guerrillas, who would raid
the farm valleys below and “induce slaves to join them.” As
this army of liberation grew, it “would run off the slaves
in large numbers,” sending them north along the mountains
to freedom.  Brown’s objective, he told Douglass, was to undermine
slavery by “rendering such property insecure.” Douglass
doubted the plan’s feasibility, but he came away deeply
impressed by the wool-merchant’s sincerity and commitment.
“Though a white gentleman,” Douglass wrote in his
abolitionist weekly, Brown was “in sympathy, a black man,
and as deeply interested in our cause, as though his own
soul had been pierced with the iron of slavery.”  Months later, Brown gave further evidence of his
commitment by seeking the support of Gerrit Smith, one of
the wealthiest philanthropists in the U.S. Born into the
landed gentry of upstate  New York , Smith managed his
family’s estates while dabbling in the many reform
movements of his day, including temperance, vegetarianism
and sexual “purity” (a creed advocated by Sylvester Graham,
who claimed his coarse-grained crackers curbed lust and
masturbation).  But Smith’s abiding passion was abolitionism. He
helped found the anti-slavery Liberty Party and ran as its
presidential candidate in 1848 (receiving 0.1 percent of
the vote). He also granted thousands of acres in upstate
New York to free blacks, so they could farm and own enough
property to qualify for the vote. But the land was poor,
and the Adirondack colony, called Timbucto, struggled from
the first.  Brown proposed moving there himself to help black
pioneers survey, farm and raise stock. “I can think of no
place where I think I would sooner go,” he wrote his
father, “than to live with those poor despised Africans to
try, & encourage them; & show them a little as far as I am
capable.” In 1849, Smith deeded 244 acres to Brown, who
settled his family in a log house near Lake Placid and then
returned to Springfield with an ambitious plan to wind up
his wool business. Rather than sell to domestic buyers at
low prices, he shipped tons of his depot’s finest wool to
Britain, convinced he could break the American cartel.  Debt and Lawsuits  Yet again, Brown’s business instincts proved poor.
British buyers scorned the American wool, forcing him to
ship most of it back home, at great expense, for sale at
ruinously low prices. His already-troubled business
collapsed, and Brown found himself mired in debt and
lawsuits, just as he’d been a decade before.  This bitter experience in the wool market seemed only
to deepen Brown’s hatred of the cotton-fueled “Slave
Power,” whose boosters sought in 1854 to extend slavery’s
domain to the newly opened  Kansas  territory. As both
Northern and Southern settlers flooded Kansas, conflict
broke out over whether it would become a slave or free
state. Five of Brown’s sons joined the migration, staking
claims and writing their father about pro-slavery
“Ruffians” who attacked and intimidated free-state
settlers. Brown’s sons were ready to fight back, if only
they had guns. “We need them more than we do bread,” John
Brown Jr. wrote.  Brown was broke, and his wife had just given birth.
This was no time for her husband to set off on a Western
adventure. But his sons were in peril and so was the cause
of freedom. In June 1855, Brown carried his son’s letter to
a radical abolitionist convention and raised money to buy
guns. Heading west, he stopped in  Ohio  to see his father,
by then 84 and in failing health. In a letter to his
daughter, Owen Brown expressed parental concern about
John’s state of mind. “He has something of a warlike
spirit,” Owen wrote. “I think, as much as necessary, for
defense. I will hope nothing more.”  A few days later, Owen lent John $40 and said goodbye.
He would never see his eldest son again.  (Tony Horwitz is the author of “A Voyage Long and
Strange,” “Blue Latitudes,” “Confederates in the Attic” and
“Baghdad Without a Map.” This is the second in a five-part
series excerpted from his new book, “Midnight Rising: John
Brown and the Raid That Sparked the Civil War,” to be
published Oct. 25 by Henry Holt and Co. The opinions expressed
are his own. See  Part 1 ,  Part 3 ,  Part 4  and  Part 5 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Tony Horwitz at the website  www.tonyhorwitz.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  