-- 
JPMorgan Expands Corporate Bank Unit Ahead of Schedule

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-10-19T09:07:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/jpmorgan-expands-global-corporate-bank-team-ahead-of-schedule.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. lender by assets, will meet its goal of hiring at least 300
bankers for the global corporate bank unit a year ahead of
schedule, the head of the business said.  JPMorgan is likely to reach the target by the end of 2012,
partly because the business has grown “faster than we
expected,” Gregory Guyett, chief executive officer for the
global corporate bank unit, said in an interview in Hong Kong
yesterday. The team has expanded to more than 250 bankers from
about 100 in 2009.  JPMorgan, which last week reported a slump in investment
banking and trading, plans to invest more in the global
corporate bank as the business expands. Guyett, whose division
manages the lender’s relationships with large companies,
financial institutions and state-run firms, reiterated a goal of
generating an additional $1 billion in annual pretax profit
within “a few years.” He declined to say how much the division
makes now.  “We will invest whatever it takes in order to build this
footprint, business to serve the clients,” said Guyett, 47.
“That’s balance sheet, that’s people, that’s all the
infrastructure and support that goes along with it.”  JPMorgan drove expansion of the global corporate bank unit
outside the U.S. in 2009 with an investment of about $100
million for the first year, said Guyett, who is based in  London .
The goal was to increase the cash management, lending, trade
financing and corporate advisory services and products sold to
large customers.  ‘War for Talent’  JPMorgan last week reported a drop in third-quarter profit.
The New York-based company reduced its investment-banking
workforce by almost 4 percent in the three-month period and cut
employee compensation costs 28 percent as the division grappled
with fallout from the European debt crisis.  Shares of JPMorgan rose 5.9 percent to $32.87 at the close
of trading in  New York . The stock has shed 23 percent this year.  In emerging markets including  China , the unit will focus on
offering services to foreign companies operating in those
nations and local firms with overseas ambitions, Guyett said. He
was previously the Tokyo-based president and CEO of JPMorgan
Securities  Japan  Co. and senior country officer in Japan.  “We’re not in business to compete with local banks that
have the ability to raise money very cheaply, have huge networks
across China,” Guyett said. “That’s not our target market.”  The global corporate bank division will have a third of its
people in Asia, a third in  North America  and the rest in  Latin
America ,  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa, Guyett said.  “We’ll keep a very close watch on the war for talent,
making sure we continue to hire quality people,” said Muhammad Aurangzeb, chief executive officer for the division’s Asian
operations, said in an interview yesterday. Even in times of
crisis, “the reality is there will continue to be a lot of
focus on the region and therefore a war for quality people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  