-- 
Julian Barnes Wins Man Booker Prize He Once Called ‘Posh Bingo’

-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-18T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/julian-barnes-wins-78-400-man-booker-prize-for-the-sense-of-an-ending-.html
Julian Barnes won the  Man Booker
Prize for Fiction  last night for “ The Sense of an Ending ,” a
slim novel whose narrator must grapple with the fallibility of
his memory and sense of self when a friend’s long-ago suicide
returns to haunt him.  This is the 65-year-old Barnes’s first time winning the
U.K.’s most prestigious literary award, which comes with 50,000
pounds ($78,400), though three of his previous novels were
shortlisted.  As he accepted the prize at a black-tie dinner in London’s
medieval Guildhall, he said, “Borges, when asked as he
continually was why he had never won the Nobel Prize, always
used to reply that in  Sweden  there was a small cottage industry
solely devoted to not giving Borges the  Nobel Prize .  “At times over the last years in occasional moments of
mild paranoia I’ve wondered whether there wasn’t perhaps some
similar sister organization operating over here,” he said. “So
I am as much relieved as I am delighted to receive the 2011
 Booker Prize .”  Barnes famously dismissed the Booker as “posh bingo” back
in 1987. After winning it, he clarified:  “The Booker Prize has a tendency to drive writers a bit
mad with lust and greed and expectation,” he said at the post-
ceremony press conference. “I was saying that the best way to
stay sane is to treat it as ‘posh bingo.’ That means unless and
until you win it, when you realize that the judges are the
wisest heads in literary Christendom.”  Bookies’ Favorite  Barnes emerged early as the bookies’ favorite, beating five
lesser-known finalists. The judges praised the beauty and
concision of his prose, as well as the universality of the
novel’s appeal.  “We thought it was a book that spoke to humankind in the
21st century,” said the chairman of the judges, author and
former MI5 spy chief Stella Rimington.  “The Sense of an Ending” (Cape/Knopf) tells the story of
Tony Webster, a divorced retiree whose uneventful middle age is
disturbed by a mysterious bequest from the mother of his college
girlfriend, Veronica.  Along with 500 pounds, Tony receives a diary belonging to
his brilliant school friend, Adrian, who took up with Veronica
after she and Tony split and later committed suicide.  This charged legacy is the catalyst for a meditation on
friendship, aging and the slipperiness of memory, which along
the way reveals just how little we truly know ourselves.  Pat Kavanagh  Dedicated to Barnes’s late wife, the literary agent Pat
Kavanagh, “The Sense of an Ending” is just 150 pages long,
making it one of the briefest winners in the prize’s history.  “We thought that it was a book which, though short, was
incredibly concentrated, and crammed in to a very short space a
great deal of information which you don’t get out of a first
read,” Rimington said.  Runners-up for the prize included two debut novels:
“ Pigeon English” ( Bloomsbury/Houghton Mifflin Harcourt),
Stephen Kelman’s tale of an 11-year-old Ghanaian immigrant
caught in the fallout of a  London  knifing, and “ Snowdrops ”
(Atlantic/Doubleday), A.D. Miller’s thriller-like account of an
Englishman whose moral compass drifts in Moscow.  The other finalists were Carol Birch’s “ Jamrach’s
Menagerie ” (Canongate/Doubleday), about a boy who leaves
London’s Victorian slums for the South Seas in search of a
mythical dragon; Patrick deWitt’s “ The Sisters Brothers ”
(Granta/Ecco), about sibling assassins in  California  during the
Gold Rush; and Esi Edugyan’s “ Half Blood Blues ” (Serpent’s
Tail), a novel of betrayal set among a mixed-race jazz group in
WWII-era Paris and 1990s  Germany .  Rival Award  This year’s prize has caused its share of controversy, with
literary commentators questioning the judges’ credentials and
bemoaning a “dumbed-down” shortlist. A group of authors and
publishers is even gathering around the idea of a rival award.  While sticking by her previous use of the term
“readability,” Rimington said the judges had been looking for
quality, too. “You can have more than one adjective when you’re
talking about books,” she said.  Now in its 43rd year, the prize continues to promise an
almost certain sales boost -- and this latest shortlist is the
best selling since records began. Each of the six finalists,
including the winner, receives 2,500 pounds ($3,900) and an
edition of his or her own book in a unique designer binding.  The contest is designed to celebrate the best novel of the
year written by a citizen of the British Commonwealth, the
Republic of Ireland or  Zimbabwe . Established in 1968 by food
wholesaler Booker Plc, the prize has been sponsored since 2002
by  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest publicly traded hedge-fund
manager.  Jon R. Aisbitt, the chairman of Man Group, announced before
the ceremony that Man has signed an agreement to sponsor the
prize for 10 more years.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 