-- 
Juniper Networks Profit Matches Estimates as Revenue Rises

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-10-19T00:41:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/juniper-networks-profit-matches-estimates-as-revenue-rises.html
Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , the second-
largest maker of networking equipment, reported sales and profit
that met estimates amid buoyant demand for routers and switches
that handle Internet traffic.  Third-quarter profit excluding some costs was 28 cents a
share, the Sunnyvale, California-based company said in a
statement, matching the average projected by analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 9 percent to $1.1 billion, according
to the statement.  Juniper is benefiting as business customers shift to cloud
computing, which delivers their software and data over the Web.
The company has invested more than $100 million on cloud
products over three years and in February introduced QFabric,
the first fruit of that effort, to help it compete with larger
rival  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   “They’ve got a really good product cycle in 2012,”  Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group, said in a telephone
interview. “This one has been taken back behind the woodshed a
little bit too much. There’s a little bit of a relief rally in
the after-market.”  Juniper shares rose as much as 5.9 percent to $22.67 in
after-hours trading. The stock had climbed 5 percent to $21.41
at the close in  New York  and has dropped 42 percent this year.  Net Income Drop  Net income attributable to the company fell 38 percent to
$83.7 million from the year-earlier quarter, dragged down in
part by higher marketing costs for the new product line. Sales
and marketing expenses rose 25 percent to $254.9 million from
$204.7 million a year earlier. The company also logged a $16.8
million restructuring charge related to workforce reductions,
the statement said.  Juniper has been “prudently” investing in sales and
marketing,  Kevin Johnson , chief executive officer of the
company, said on a conference call following release of the
results.  “We’re poised to begin delivering revenue from our
innovation road map next year,” Johnson said. “When it comes
to QFabric, certainly Juniper is driving the bus that Cisco is
running to catch.”  The company needs to achieve “significant” success with
its new products to meet its goal of 20 percent year-over-year
growth in 2012, said Brian Modoff, an analyst at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in  San Francisco .  “Without some success in some of the new products like
QFabric, I think anything above 10 percent is going to be
challenging,” Modoff said.  Fourth Quarter  Fourth-quarter revenue will be $1.16 billion to $1.22
billion, according to Juniper’s statement. Profit excluding some
items will be 32 cents to 36 cents a share. Analysts projected
$1.24 billion in sales and 37 cents in profit.  Spending by the government and service providers is
expected to slow in the fourth quarter, Johnson said on the
call.  “Our expectation is there is much less of any kind of
budget surge that you potentially have seen in prior years,” he
said.  Companies buy Juniper’s switches for their  computer
networks . Phone and Internet-service providers led by  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  typically purchase its more
expensive routers, and they provide about 70 percent of
Juniper’s revenue, said Modoff.  In earlier quarters, the company grappled with slower-than-
expected spending by Internet carriers that are delaying
purchases and waiting for new products amid concerns about
economic growth in the U.S. and  Europe , said Alex Henderson, an
analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  