-- 
Mogadishu Bomb Kills at Least Two as Kenyan Troops Advance Over Border

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-10-18T14:42:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/kenyan-troops-push-into-somalia-to-thwart-terrorist-attacks-by-al-shabaab.html
A bomb exploded in the Somali
capital, Mogadishu, after the Islamist militant group al-Shabaab
vowed to resist  Kenya ’s military intervention in the southern
part the country.  The explosion outside a complex of ministry buildings
killed at least two people, Kamal Ali Abdi, a shopkeeper who
witnessed the blast, said by phone. The bombing took place as
Kenyan Defense Minister Yusuf Haji and Foreign Minister Moses Wetangula visited the city for talks with President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s goverment on the military operation.  “They attack us by air and on the border; we must unite
and fight back until we clear our territory,” a leader of the
Islamist movement, Sheikh Hassan Abdulahi Hersi, said in a voice
recording on Radio al-Furqaan, a station that supports al-
Shabaab. “The Kenyan government will lose many people and
assets because of its intervention in our territory.”  Kenyan soldiers entered  Somalia  on Oct. 16 after the
kidnapping of foreign tourists and aid workers in Kenya that
officials blame on al-Shabaab, which has pledged allegiance to
al-Qaeda.  Kenyan troops today advanced deeper inside Somalia and may
target the port of Kismayo in their drive to thwart attacks by
al-Shabaab, a defense department spokesman said. Kismayo would
be a key target because control of the port gives al-Shabaab
revenue.  Heavy Rains  The Kenyans and forces loyal to Somalia’s Western-backed
transitional government have secured the towns of Tabda and
Afmadow, which is about 120 kilometers (75 miles) east of the
Kenyan border, the spokesman, Emmanuel Chirchir, said today by
phone from the Kenyan town of Garissa. Heavy rains have slowed
the troops’ advance, he said.  “The next town is Kismayo,” he said. “The troops are
ready for anything. If it takes us to December they are willing
to celebrate Christmas there.”  Somalia, on Kenya’s northern border, hasn’t had a
functioning government, police force or court system since the
1991 overthrow of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre. Al-Shabaab has
waged a four-year campaign to remove the transitional
administration and controls most of southern and central
Somalia.  “Kenya’s military is one of the more professional
militaries in  Africa , with particularly close ties with the
British, and the U.S. has helped as well,” Thomas Cargill,
assistant head of the Africa Program at the Chatham House
research group, said today from  London . “They are as well
equipped as anyone in Africa, outside of  South Africa  and
 Angola .”  African Union   About 9,000 Ugandan and Burundian soldiers form the  African
Union -led peacekeeping force in Somalia. U.S.-backed Ethiopian
forces invaded the country in December 2006 to oust the Islamist
government that had captured southern Somalia.  Deteriorating security along the Kenya-Somalia border was
highlighted by the Oct. 13 kidnapping of two foreign aid workers
from the medical group Medecins Sans Frontieres by armed men
from Somalia at a refugee camp in northeastern Kenya. Somalis
fleeing famine and war have poured across the border this year
and Kenya now hosts 590,000 United Nations-registered Somali
refugees, three-quarters of whom live in the  Dadaab  complex, the
world’s largest refugee facility.  Tourist Killed  British tourist David Tebbutt was killed and his wife,
Judith, was abducted last month at a resort in Kiwayu, 503
kilometers southeast of Nairobi, and is being held hostage in
Somalia. On Oct. 1, Marie Dedieu, a 66-year-old disabled French
woman, was kidnapped from a house on nearby Manda Island by
gunmen from al-Shabaab, Tourism Minister Najib Balala said in a
statement posted on his Twitter account.  “I don’t think Kenya planned this in a week. They must
have done a lot of background, and decided that it was necessary
for Kenya to send troops into Somalia,” Ndungu Wainaina,
executive director of the Nairobi-based International Centre for
Policy and Conflict, said by phone today.  The Lamu archipelago, where the incidents took place, is
one of Kenya’s main attractions for tourists who generated 73.7
billion shillings ($740 million) for the country last year, the
second-largest foreign-exchange earner after tea. The U.K.
government changed its travel advice on Oct. 1 to recommend that
visitors to Kenya avoid non-essential visits within 150
kilometers of the border with Somalia.  Kenya is counting on a tripling of tourists to 3 million a
year by 2015 to help achieve its goal of 10 percent economic
growth.  “This intervention came about because of concerns about
external perceptions of Kenya; the tourist industry is very
worried because of these kidnappings,” Cargill said. “This is
a response intended to try and address those.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  