-- 
Kim Wilde Joins Boy George’s Charge Back to 1980s Pop in London

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-10-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/kim-wilde-joins-boy-george-s-charge-back-to-1980s-pop-in-london.html
Not since Michael J. Fox stepped out
of a  DeLorean  has time travel been so exciting.  London ’s Roundhouse has taken its latest step back to the
future with a festival of 1980s music. The only question is when
the venue does it again.  Boy George, Sandie Shaw, Scritti Politti’s Green Gartside
and Kim Wilde are celebrating the historic future-pop perfection
of the British Electric Foundation album “Music of Quality and
Distinction.” Fans can only live in hope that the one-off show
will be followed by more.  The British Electric Foundation, often abbreviated to
 B.E.F. , created the template for modern pop 25 years too early.
Its production of Tina Turner’s covers of “Ball of Confusion”
and “Let’s Stay Together” kick-started her revival.  Not bad for two synthesizer-obsessed punks based in the
industrial English city of Sheffield.  Martyn Ware and Ian Craig Marsh were members of the Human
League before forming Heaven 17. Their side-project B.E.F. took
classic soul songs and, working with a range of singers,
recreated them using technology that was just starting to become
available.  The spectacular results have been re-released in a set
“1981-2011: B.E.F.” A new album will follow in 2012 with many of
the songs in the show. Big soul vocals and sparse synthetic
backing is the sound of contemporary pop. Despite the obvious
advances in recording technology, these originals still sound
vital.  On stage, they are sublime.  Glacial Synth  Marsh has left B.E.F. and Ware is happy to augment his
keyboards with guitars. Even so, the 1980s future dazzle
remains. Glenn Gregory, the lead singer of Heaven 17, mixes rich
blue-eyed soul into the glacial synth. His trademark blonde
quiff is gone, not his onstage exuberance. He strums through an
acoustic version of Human League’s “Don’t You Want Me.”  Ultravox’s Midge Ure takes on  David Bowie ’s “Secret Life of
Arabia,” which he dedicates to the late Billy Mackenzie who
originally sang it for B.E.F. The audience calls for “Vienna.”  “No, we are singing music of quality and distinction
tonight,” laughs Ure.  Wilde glitters like a Blondie from a northern English town
and astounds with her version of “You Keep Me Hangin’ On” by the
Supremes. Gartside, bearded and wearing a louche black velvet
suit, applies his rich reedy tenor to a version of The Delfonics
song “Didn’t I (Blow Your Mind This Time)” tickled with
electronic drums.  Goose Bumps  Billie Godfrey turns Bronski Beat’s “Small Town Boy” into a
poignant epic. Kate Jackson of the Long Blondes raises a
mountain range of goose bumps with Blondie’s “Picture This.”
Shaw brings effortless glamour to Dionne Warwick’s “Anyone Who
Had a Heart”.  Boy George looks like a rhinestone cowboy at Tiffany’s with
his pink hat and black, bejeweled suit. His mellifluous voice,
spiked with an ever-present glint of wickedness, is ideal for
his beautifully oozing cover of  Lou Reed ’s “Make Up.”  Ware’s arrangements, innovative and still, after 30 years,
strikingly modern, give the concert a coherence and consistency,
preventing it from becoming mere cabaret.  An impromptu encore of Heaven 17’s “Temptation” (some of
the guest singers have to be dragged back onstage from the bar)
is one of the greatest moments of house music euphoria to be
written before house music was invented.  It seems criminal that this two-day weekend event, as
presently planned, should only be a one-off. Exceptional.  Rating: ****.  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 