-- 
King Says ‘Time Is Running Out’ in Battle With Sovereign Debt, Imbalances

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/king-says-u-k-needs-stimulus-as-world-economy-rebalancing-fails.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said the global recovery is faltering and “time is running
out” for authorities to reduce imbalances and strengthen banks.  “In 2008-09, it was easy to coordinate international
action in the Group of 20 economies,” King said in a speech
late yesterday in Liverpool,  England . “In the face of a
collapse in world trade even faster than that in the 1930s,
countries needed no persuasion of the necessity of policy
stimulus. But it has proved much harder to form a consensus on
how to tackle the underlying problems.”  King said monetary policy is limited in its capacity to
revive the U.K.’s “reluctant recovery” as governments delay
dealing with underlying imbalances between countries with
current account surpluses and deficits. As European leaders
prepare for a summit on the Greek crisis on Oct. 23 before G-20
leaders meet on Nov. 3, King said the global economy needs a
“bold response.”  “Without a rebalancing of spending in the world economy, a
struggle between debtor and creditor countries will inflict
economic pain on everyone,” he said. “We acted together in
2009: we can do so again.”  King also said there have been “renewed concerns about the
adequacy of the capital” in euro-area banks. The Bloomberg
 Europe  Banks Index has fallen 31 percent this year, more than
twice the decline recorded by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  “A transparent recognition of losses and a substantial
injection of additional capital are necessary to restore market
confidence,” King said.  BOE Stimulus  As the euro-area debt crisis roiled financial markets, the
Bank of England raised the ceiling for so-called quantitative
easing to 275 billion pounds ($430 billion) from 200 billion
pounds on Oct. 6.  King justified the expansion by arguing that while
inflation accelerated to 5.2 percent in September, it will slow
“sharply” next year as the impact from  oil prices  and a sales-
tax increase fade. Minutes of this month’s decision, showing how
policy makers voted, will be published at 9:30 a.m. in  London .  “Without monetary stimulus -- low  interest rates  and large
asset purchases -- there is a risk that growth will stall and
inflation fall below our symmetric 2 percent target,” King
said. “For the time being, a significant degree of policy
stimulus is appropriate to support demand.”  While the central bank’s buying of  government bonds  will
benefit all companies, King said the Bank of England and the
U.K. Treasury are examining measures aimed at boosting credit to
small and medium-sized businesses.  G-20 Meeting  Group of 20 finance ministers and central banks have set
the Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in Brussels as the
deadline to agree on a plan to avoid a Greek default, bolster
banks and curb contagion.  King said some governments in  Asia  and the euro area
“significantly” contributed to the problems in the global
economy over the last two decades by trying to fix exchange
rates “without putting in place mechanisms to ensure that
competitiveness could be rebalanced by other means.”  “Surplus countries, a group which includes three of the
world’s largest four economies, share a major responsibility to
respond to our present dilemma,” King said. “Domestic spending
must be raised in the surplus countries and lowered in the
deficit countries, relative to current trends.”  King said officials should aim at returning interest rates
to normal and lowering budget deficits, though turmoil in Europe
and slower global growth will delay the process. While stimulus
measures after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in
2008 “bought time,” lenders in Europe remain inadequately
capitalized and governments must do more to tackle the
underlying “debt problem,” he said.  “There is a long journey ahead before the world economy
returns to a sustainable equilibrium,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  