-- 
Koch’s Iran Link Causes Democrat to Send Donation to Charity

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 
2011-10-19T19:27:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/koch-iran-link-causes-candidate-to-send-contributions-to-charity.html
Dan Maffei, a New York congressional
candidate and former member of the U.S. House, said he is giving
$3,500 in political donations from Koch Industries Inc. to
charity because the company profited from business in  Iran .  “I not only will never take another cent from them, but I
am giving their past donations away to charity,” said Maffei, a
Democrat, in a statement e-mailed by his campaign yesterday. He
said he would donate the funds from Koch’s political action
committee to the Families of Freedom Scholarship Fund, which
helps families of the victims of the Sept. 11 terror attacks.  Maffei cited a report this month in Bloomberg Markets  that
Koch sold millions of dollars of petrochemical equipment to
Iran, considered by the U.S. to be a sponsor of global
terrorism. Internal company documents show that Wichita, Kansas-
based Koch, one of the world’s largest closely held companies,
used foreign subsidiaries to make the sales, getting around a
U.S. ban on domestic companies selling materials to Iran.  Democrats have been criticizing Republicans who took money
from the company’s political action committee. While the company
and top executives David and Charles Koch mostly give to
Republicans, Koch’s PAC has also contributed to Democrats. The
PAC gave $30,000 to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee
in each of the previous two elections.  ‘Singling Out Koch’  Koch said in a statement late yesterday that Maffei is
hypocritical because many Democrats have taken money from
companies that did business in Iran. Koch’s general counsel,
Mark Holden, said the company stopped all sales to Iran
voluntarily several years ago. Democrats “are singling out Koch
for political purposes,” he said in an Oct. 14 statement.  Maffei called on his opponent, Republican Representative
Ann Marie Buerkle, to also reject the company’s money. She has
received $1,000 from Koch’s PAC for next year’s election,
according to the  Center for Responsive Politics  in  Washington , a
nonpartisan group that tracks political giving. Maffei received
donations from the PAC for the 2008 and 2010 elections, the
center’s data show.  Liza Lowery, a spokeswoman for Buerkle, didn’t respond to a
phone message and e-mail yesterday.  Koch-Glitsch offices in Germany and  Italy  continued selling
to Iran as recently as 2007, Bloomberg Markets reported.  U.S. Law  Koch spokeswoman Melissa Cohlmia told Bloomberg Markets
that “during the relevant time frame covered” in the article,
“U.S. law allowed foreign subsidiaries of U.S. multinational
companies to engage in trade involving countries subject to U.S.
trade sanctions, including Iran, under certain conditions.”  During the 2010 midterm elections, Koch’s PAC gave $618,000
to Republican Party committees and politicians’ leadership PACs,
compared with $120,500 that went to Democrats, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics. The PAC gave more than $1.1
million to individual Republican candidates, compared with
$112,500 to Democrats.  The  National Republican Congressional Committee , which has
received donations from the Koch brothers and the company PAC,
declined to comment. The  National Republican Senatorial
Committee  and the  Republican National Committee  both said they
have no plans to return the Koch donations and noted that the
company employs tens of thousands of Americans.  Democrats are displaying “breathless hypocrisy” by
attacking “Koch with one hand while accepting hundreds of
thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from them with
the other,” said  Brian Walsh , the NRSC’s spokesman.  Governors’ Group  The DSCC also doesn’t plan to return the money, said
spokesman Matt Canter. Still, the committee says Republican are
“willing to look the other way as these allegations emerge.”  The  Republican Governors Association  has benefited from
more than $1 million in donations from the company and employees
for both the 2010 and 2012 elections, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics. The RGA plans to keep the contributions
and put them “to good use,” said Mike Schrimpf, a spokesman
for the association.  Schrimpf also criticized Senator Jon Tester, a Montana
Democrat, for citing Koch last week when saying the U.S. should
stop American companies circumventing sanctions against Iran.  “It’s clear we need to tighten the screws,” Tester told a
Senate Banking Committee hearing on potential threats from Iran.  Schrimpf said Tester and other Democrats “who attack this
good American company need to take a hard look at who funds
their own campaigns.”  Iran Business  Tester has received donations in the past from  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , two companies
that also have histories of dealing with Iran. Tester doesn’t
plan to return any contributions, he said in response to e-
mailed questions.  “My concern is more specific to businesses that are
actively circumventing imposed sanctions,” Tester said.  GE decided to stop doing business in Iran in 2005, except
for the completion of some contracts and humanitarian work, the
company says on its website.  “Honeywell complies with all laws in every country in
which we operate,” said Rob Ferris, a spokesman for that
company. “In 2010, the company voluntarily committed to
accepting no new projects in Iran.”  Maffei also has taken PAC donations from both Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE and Morris Township, New Jersey-based
Honeywell, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  “The singling out of Koch by Mr. Maffei for political
purposes is similar to the hypocrisy displayed by Senator Jon
Tester’s attack on us,” Koch said. “It is also evidence of Mr.
Maffei’s and the DCCC’s hypocrisy, which you will find if you do
the straightforward and simple research we did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  