-- 
Kodak, Apple Patent Cases May Resume as ITC Fills 2 Vacancies

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-10-18T20:02:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/kodak-apple-patent-cases-may-resume-as-itc-fills-2-vacancies.html
Patent cases involving  Eastman Kodak
Co. (EK) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and other companies may advance after the U.S.
International Trade Commission hired two judges to fill
vacancies that had contributed to delays in the proceedings.  David P. Shaw, an administrative law judge for the  Social
Security Administration , will start at the ITC on Oct. 24, the
Washington-based agency said in a  statement  yesterday. Thomas
Bernard Pender, who has  been an ALJ  with the Social Security and
Small Business administrations, will start the same day.  The ITC, which investigates allegations of unfair trade
practices and has the power to block imports of products found
to infringe U.S. patents, has seen its caseload rise to a record
69 this year as Apple, Kodak, Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.
and other companies fight over technology for smartphones and
tablet computers. The number of cases and the absence of two
judges had pushed the target for completing a case to 20 months
in some instances from a typical time frame of 16 months.  “The judges simply had too many other cases before them to
be able to schedule hearings and write opinions in any shorter
period,” said Tom Schaumberg, a patent lawyer with Adduci
Mastriani & Schaumberg LLP in  Washington , which handles more ITC
cases than any other  law firm .  The ITC instituted the 69 investigations in the fiscal year
ended Sept. 30, surpassing the  record  51 in the previous year.  Speed of Cases  The hiring of Pender and Shaw brings the number of judges
back to six for the ITC, which has been shorthanded since ALJ
Carl Charneski stepped down earlier this year, and Chief Judge
Paul Luckern retired in August.  Motorola Mobility’s patent case against Cupertino,
California-based Apple, which had been scheduled for a trial in
August, was suspended until a new judge could be assigned after
Luckern left. A final decision in a Kodak case against Apple and
Waterloo, Ontario-based  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  has also been
delayed at least twice because of the retirement.  “There’s a bit of nervousness when ITC target dates begin
to lag,” said Smith Brittingham, a patent lawyer with Finnegan
Henderson in Washington who specializes in ITC cases. “Clearly
one of the primary attractive factors associated with the ITC is
the speed of the cases.”  The commission has become the venue of choice for resolving
patent disputes partly because it decides cases faster than most
courts. While the new judges won’t mean an immediate drop in the
time it’s taking for cases to be heard, it may stop the need for
continued extensions, Schaumberg said.  “The ITC is still faster even at these inflated ranges
than the district courts that are considered rocket dockets,”
Schaumberg said. “It’s only because of this unusual situation -
- two retirements almost simultaneously -- that something that
had to give.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  