-- 
Kraft, GE Officials Say Conflict-Mineral Rule Will Burden Firms

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-18T21:23:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/kraft-ge-officials-say-conflict-mineral-rule-will-burden-firms.html
Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  would have to track
as many as 100,000 suppliers for thousands of products to comply
with a Dodd-Frank Act rule targeting so-called conflict
minerals, according to the company’s chief securities counsel.  “We had no idea this legislation was going to be covering
companies like us,” Kraft’s Irma Villarreal said today at a
Securities and Exchange Commission forum on the measure’s
impact. “We are worldwide. We have 40,000 products. We have
promotional material for all those things.”  Under Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation law enacted in
2010, the SEC is required to have companies report whether they
or their suppliers obtain any of four metals from the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo or neighboring countries. The provision was
designed to deny African warlords proceeds from mining of tin,
tantalum, tungsten and gold, which human-rights activists say
are used to fund abuses against civilians.  Villarreal, whose Northfield, Illinois-based company is the
world’s second-biggest food company, told SEC officials
including Chairman  Mary Schapiro  that Kraft has a lot of work to
do in tracking the metals in packaging and factory equipment.  “The rule has to recognize the situation of all the
issuers that have to comply with it,” Sandy Merber, a counsel
for international trade regulation and sourcing at  General
Electric Co (GE) , said at the meeting. “We won’t get to the bottom
of our products for a little bit of time.”  Responsibility for writing the conflict-mineral rule puts
the SEC in unfamiliar territory, stretching into virtually every
corner of manufacturing while touching on foreign policy. The
agency has delayed adoption of the rule, missing an April
deadline, and called today’s meeting to gather additional
information from affected companies and other interest groups.  “This part of the world has been one of the most deadly on
earth,” U.S. Senator  Dick Durbin  said at the meeting. “Our
demand for products that contain these minerals could
inadvertently be fueling this war,” said the Illinois Democrat
who was one of the provision’s authors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 