-- 
N.Z. Oil Salvage in ‘Critical’ Phase as Rough Seas Rock Vessel

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-10-19T03:32:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/n-z-oil-salvage-in-critical-phase.html
Salvage efforts on a stranded
container ship off the northeastern coast of  New Zealand  have
entered a “critical” phase as poor weather conditions prevent
officials from pumping oil off the vessel.  A salvage team re-boarded the vessel this afternoon as
strong winds and rough seas hampered oil recovery,  Maritime New
Zealand  said in a statement. About 90 metric tons of oil was
pumped off the ship before operations were halted Oct. 17.  “We’re in a critical place during the next 24 hours due to
the weather,” Andrew Berry, head of the agency’s salvage unit,
said in a statement last night. “We have one tug still
connected to the stern of Rena ready to respond should the ship
break up, with two other tugs on standby.”  Rena, the Athens-based Costamare Shipping Co.’s vessel, is
“in a dynamic situation” and a range of response plans were in
place should the ship rapidly deteriorate, Berry said. Cracks
appeared in the hull last week, raising concern the ship may
break apart more than a week after it ran aground near Tauranga,
100 miles (160 kilometers) southeast of Auckland.  Costamare is taking the accident with “the utmost
seriousness”, according to a statement from the ship’s owners
today. The company was working with insurers, contractors and
other parties to minimize the effects of pollution, it said.  Dead Birds  “While it would be premature for us to say anything
further while the salvage operation is on-going, Costamare will
be there to do the right thing, as the situation becomes
clearer,” the company said.  As many as 1,290 birds have been found dead following the
accident and there are 269 animals being cared for at a wildlife
facility, Maritime New Zealand said.  The Rena was carrying 1,368 containers and about 1,700
metric tons of  fuel oil , according to maritime officials. As
many as 350 tons of oil may have spilled from the vessel.  The cargo on the 32-year-old, Liberian-flagged ship
includes four containers of ferrosilicon, a solid substance that
can be hazardous when in contact with water and can emit
hydrogen, according to the agency.  As many as 88 containers have fallen from the ship and
almost half of them are empty, it said on Oct. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  