-- 
Nascar’s Johnson Says IndyCar Shouldn’t Race on Ovals After Wheldon Death

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-10-18T12:50:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/nascar-s-johnson-says-indycar-shouldn-t-race-on-ovals-after-wheldon-death.html
Jimmie Johnson, Nascar’s five-time
defending champion, said he was “torn up” by Dan Wheldon’s
death and that IndyCar should race only on street circuits and
road courses rather than on high-speed oval tracks.  Wheldon died two days ago of head injuries suffered during
a fiery 15-car crash during a race at Las Vegas Motor Speedway.
The Englishman’s car went airborne at a speed of more than 200
mph (320 kph) and broke apart when it slammed into the safety
fence above the outside retaining wall.  Johnson has raced stock cars since 1998 and said he’s
uncomfortable with the open-cockpit and open-wheel design of
Indy cars. Johnson said while he’s always wanted to compete in
the Indianapolis 500 -- a race Wheldon won twice -- he promised
his wife he’d never drive an Indy car after the birth of his
daughter last year.  “I hate, hate, hate that this tragedy took place,”
Johnson, 36, told reporters during a test session at Charlotte
Motor Speedway yesterday. “But hopefully they can learn from it
and make those cars safer on ovals somehow. I have a lot of
friends that race in that series, and I’d just rather see them
on street circuits and road courses. No more ovals.”  Oriol Servia of  Spain  was among the IndyCar drivers who
voiced concern about the speeds at Las Vegas Motor Speedway,
where cars were running practice laps of almost 225 mph.  “We all had a bad feeling about this place in particular
just because of the high banking and how easy it was to go
flat,”  Servia said , referring to cars driving at top speed.  Chain Reaction  The crash on Oct. 16 occurred 11 laps into the 200-lap race
as contact at the rear of the 34-car field caused a chain
reaction of collisions. Wheldon’s car was among several that
launched into the air after flying up and over other cars. The
track was strewn with debris following the crash, ending the
race and leading driver Ryan Briscoe to compare the smoking
wreckage to a war scene out of the movie “Terminator.”  Drivers and spectators were informed about two hours later
that Wheldon had died, leaving behind a wife and two sons under
the age of 3. He was 33. The medical examiner’s office in  Clark
County ,  Nevada , confirmed last night that Wheldon died of blunt
head trauma from the accident.  “Knowing Dan and his wife and two kids, and then I’m
sitting there with my daughter running around in the backyard, I
was torn up,” Johnson said.  Johnson, who has 55 Nascar wins since 2002 and captured
five straight Sprint Cup season titles from 2006-10, said the
design of Indy cars offers less protection and makes them less
controllable than the stock cars he races.  Celebration Canceled  “There’s very little crumple zone around the driver, it’s
an open cockpit and then you add open wheels -- it’s creating
situations to get the car off the ground at a high rate of
speed,” Johnson said. “And you can’t control the car when it’s
off the ground.”  The Las Vegas Indy 300 was the final race of the IndyCar
season. The racing league canceled a season-ending championship
celebration that was scheduled for yesterday and said it will
pay tribute to Wheldon with a public memorial service in
Indianapolis at a date to be determined.  “His infectious smile, bubbly personality and big heart
made Dan one of the most caring people I had ever met,” IndyCar
chief executive Randy Bernard said in a statement. “You could
never ask for a better ambassador to a sport.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  