-- 
Nespresso Customers Cheat on George Clooney in Coffee Capsule Wars: Retail

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-10-19T09:19:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/nespresso-customers-cheat-on-clooney-in-coffee-wars-retail.html
French shoppers are cheating on
 George Clooney .  Sales growth of Nespresso, the  Nestle SA (NESN)  single-serve
coffee capsules marketed in  Europe  by the actor, may slow by
about 20 percent next year. More consumers are choosing knockoff
java in the supermarket to save cash and the hassle of going to
a specialty Nespresso store or filling out a form online.  The world’s largest food company has built  Nespresso  into a
3 billion-franc ($3.3 billion) brand after more than a decade of
double-digit growth by marketing the coffee as an affordable
luxury exclusively sold in boutiques and on the Web. Since last
year, former Nespresso executives have flooded French and Swiss
grocery shelves with versions that work in the same machines for
as much as a third less. Rivals are now targeting markets
including  Germany  and the Netherlands as weakening economies and
lower incomes entice more shoppers to switch.  “Competition is heating up and will only intensify,” said
 Richard Withagen , an analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam.
“If there’s an innovation as successful as Nespresso, it
attracts competition.”  Nespresso sales will grow 18 percent next year, from 22
percent anticipated this year, according to the average estimate
of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The predicted slowdown
will lower Nestle’s sales growth to 5 percent, the bottom end of
the Vevey, Switzerland-based company’s annual target, according
to an estimate by Nomura analyst  David Hayes .  Nespresso accounted for about 15 percent of Nestle’s sales
growth in 2010, according to Hayes, who expects the unit’s
revenue to advance 12 percent next year.  ‘Room for Growth’  Nestle reports nine-month sales tomorrow. Organic revenue,
which excludes acquisitions, divestments and currency shifts,
probably increased 7.2 percent, according to the average of 17
analysts’ estimates. Sales growth at that level may slow to 6.1
percent in 2012, the average of seven estimates shows.  Nespresso’s rivals, encouraged by the expiry of some of the
Nestle unit’s patents next year, are trying to edge in on a
market where retail sales may climb 47 percent globally between
2010 and 2015, according to Euromonitor International.  “There’s definitely room for growth,” Nespresso spokesman
Hans-Joachim Richter said. “The cake is growing and we get our
fair slice. We have to share the cake.”  Nespresso sold more than 6.5 billion capsules in 2010,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  Nestle shares were unchanged at 51.50 francs at 11:17 a.m.
in Zurich. They have declined 5.9 percent this year.  Rival Capsules  Nestle has intentionally avoided selling Nespresso through
supermarkets to keep direct contact with consumers and maintain
service quality, said Julian Liew, a spokesman for the unit.
While originally that helped cultivate an image of exclusivity,
former Nespresso executives had a different idea to snag sales.  “The distribution system of Nespresso is all wrong,” said
Jean-Paul Gaillard, a former head of Nespresso who formed rival
Ethical Coffee Co. in 2008. “It’s too complicated to buy.”  Enter the retailers. Lars Olofsson, who became CEO of
Carrefour in 2009 after 32 years at Nestle, including three
supervising Nespresso’s strategy, has stocked France’s largest
supermarket chain with alternative capsules from  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) ,
the maker of Douwe Egberts which aims to surpass  Kraft Foods
Inc. (KFT)  to become the second-biggest coffee seller. Casino’s 9,500
stores in France sell capsules made by Ethical Coffee.  “France will be a hot spot where Nespresso’s hegemony will
have to fend off Sara Lee” and Casino, JPMorgan Cazenove
analyst Polly Barclay wrote in a Sept. 22 note. Nespresso gets
about half its sales from France, according to the brokerage.  Biggest Challenger  A pack of 10 Nespresso capsules sells for 3.50 euros
($4.80) in France, Casino offers Ethical Coffee’s product for
2.59 euros, while the Sara Lee version sells for as little as 3
euros. With European consumption slowing because of the debt
crisis, Nespresso’s exclusive image may become a handicap.  “Price competition will become more difficult in the
future,” said Jean-Marie L’Home, an analyst at Aurel BGC in
Paris. “People who used to only buy Nespresso are now buying
half Nespresso and half Casino.”  Sara Lee’s L’OR Espresso capsules may be the biggest
challenger, given the U.S. company’s ability to spend on
marketing, said L’Home. L’OR Espresso is sold in  France , the
Netherlands and  Spain . Sara Lee has sold 200 million of them
since they went on sale in April 2010, said Ernesto Duran, a
spokesman for the  Downers Grove , Illinois-based company.  Sara Lee, which had $2.07 billion in cash at the end of its
most recent fiscal year, is on an “aggressive new coffee
thrust,” as it plans to spin off its coffee business next year,
which will probably lead to a “much more aggressive growth-
focused strategy,” JPMorgan’s Barclay wrote.  Legal Battles  Ethical Coffee capsules went on sale in Germany this month,
while the company also has distribution agreements planned for
 Italy , the U.K. and Scandinavia.  Investors have sounded a note of concern on other companies
as well.  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  fell the most in
two months on Oct. 17 after hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn 
said the market for its Keurig single-cup coffee is “limited”
and that the company faces patent expirations.  Indeed, Nestle isn’t taking the incursion lying down.
Nespresso has sued rivals including Sara Lee and Ethical Coffee
for alleged patent infringement, while rejecting counter claims.
Swiss supermarket chain Denner was temporarily forced to stop
selling Nespresso-compatible capsules in July after a Swiss
federal court ruling. The ban was lifted in August. Both Ethical
and Sara Lee say their capsules don’t infringe any patents.  That might not be enough to stop the bleeding.  “Legal action will only put people off for so long,” said
Jon Cox, head of research at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.
“It’s pretty obvious that competition will come and legal
action is just stalling them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  