-- 
New World Development Plunges Most Since 1998 on $1.6 Billion Rights Offer

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   B i l l y   C h a n
-- 
2011-10-18T08:30:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/new-world-plans-hk-12-3-billion-rights-offer-correct-.html
New World Development Co. plunged
the most in 14 years in  Hong Kong  trading after saying it plans
to raise HK$12.3 billion ($1.6 billion) selling stock at a
discount to fund property projects and boost capital.  The developer controlled by billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung  fell
as much as 21 percent and closed 18 percent lower at HK$7.42
after saying it will sell one rights share for every two held at
HK$5.68 apiece. That’s 37 percent lower than the closing price
yesterday.  Hong Kong developers are racing to raise funds as global
banks face pressure amid the euro debt crisis and as regulators
in countries including China tighten credit to slow inflation.
Wharf Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-based landlord, on Oct. 14
applied to the Hong Kong stock exchange for the listing of a $3
billion medium-term note program.  “Many of the investors we’ve talked to seem to think
there’ll be better options around,” said Lee Wee Liat, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Samsung Securities Co. “It looks like
there may be more developers raising funds soon so investors
will have plenty to choose from. And of course it has to do with
the macro environment as investors are still very risk averse.”  New World may use proceeds from the rights offer to fund
land acquisitions in its home market and in other parts of  China 
where property prices are dropping amid the global equity rout
and the government’s attempt to curb the formation of an asset
bubble, Lee said.  Rainy Days Ahead  “Developers could use the money to replenish land banks as
prices get cheaper,” Lee said. “It’s better to raise funds now
when there’s still appetite out there. It’s for rainy days as
there are a lot of uncertainties in the next 12 months in the
market.”  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the city’s seven
biggest developers and doesn’t include New World, fell 5.6
percent, the most since December 2008.  Cheung Kong  (Holdings)
Ltd., the builder controlled by  Li Ka-shing , Hong Kong’s richest
man, fell 6.1 percent to HK$89.15, while Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd., the biggest developer by market value, dropped 5 percent
to HK$97.45.  Part of the proceeds from New World’s share sale may be
used to fund the redevelopment of the company’s New World Centre,
a 63-story office and shopping mall complex in Hong Kong’s Tsim
Sha Tsui district, Lee said. The complex was closed in early
2010 and the redevelopment will take at least five years to
complete, New World said last year. Aldous Chiu, a spokesman for
New World in Hong Kong, didn’t immediately return a phone call
seeking comments.  ‘Big Discount’  Today’s loss extended New World’s retreat this year to 49
percent, more than twice the 22 percent drop in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index .  “The sell-off means some of their shareholders are not
planning to subscribe to the new shares and are worried their
holdings will get diluted,” said  Kenny Tang , general manager at
Hong Kong-based AMTD Financial Planning Ltd. “New World is
already trading at a big discount to their net asset value
before the announcement, which is about HK$15 to HK$16.”  New World trades at 0.35 times its book value, compared
with the average 0.9 multiple for Hong Kong developers tracked
by Bloomberg.  The share sale will “strengthen the company’s capital base
and enhance the group’s financial resilience,” New World said
in the statement. It will also help fund its participation in
the proposed rights offer of its unit  New World China Land Ltd. (917) ,
which is seeking as much as HK$4.3 billion.  Shares of New World China fell 25 percent to HK$1.68, the
most since July 1999.  New World Development also invests in roads, power
generation, transportation, telecommunications and retailing.
Chairman Cheng is Hong Kong’s fourth-richest person according to
Forbes Magazine rankings, with an estimated wealth of $9 billion.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  are managing
the share sale, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  