-- 
New York’s Suffolk County Plans to Sell $76 Million in Bonds

-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-10-18T20:39:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/new-york-s-suffolk-county-plans-to-sell-76-million-in-bonds.html
New York ’s Suffolk County, home of
the Hamptons beach communities, plans to sell $76 million of
general-obligation bonds tomorrow through competitive bids to
fund almost 150 capital projects.  Moody’s Investors Service rates the tax-exempt debt Aa2,
the company’s third-highest level, citing the county’s “large
tax base, which benefits from above-average wealth levels.”
Yields on comparably rated 10-year municipal bonds have climbed
37 basis points, or 0.37 percentage point, since the end of
September to 3.05 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “For investors, it’s all about  credit quality  these
days,” said Richard Tortora, president of New York-based
 Capital Markets Advisors LLC , who works with Suffolk County.
“The market has backed up a bit in the last few weeks, but
relatively speaking, we’re still in a very low interest-rate
environment.”  Suffolk typically issues bonds for capital financing in the
spring and fall, Tortora said. In May, the county issued $100.1
million in bonds for capital improvements. The 10-year portion
sold at a yield of 3.05 percent.  The Long Island county plans to use $16 million of the
proceeds to acquire land and development rights as part of its
“Drinking Water Protection Program.” Sales taxes from the program
will help cover the costs of issuing the debt, according to the
preliminary offering documents. Other projects include building
a new jail in Yaphank, expanding and improving a sewer district,
and improving roads, according to the county.  Wrath of Irene  Suffolk suffered the most insured property damage of 191
U.S. counties affected by  Hurricane Irene , according to a
statement yesterday from Verisk Analytics Inc. No funds from the
bond sale will go toward repairing damage from the storm, said
Christina Capobianco, the county’s chief deputy comptroller.  The county estimated $12 million in damage from the storm,
and expects federal disaster aid to cover 75 percent of that
amount, according to the offering documents. In addition to the
$76 million in bonds with maturities as long as 18 years,
Suffolk County is offering $5.1 million in one-year notes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  