-- 
News Corp. Ignored Wall Street Journal Aberrant Circulation Data

-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 
2011-10-19T23:25:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/news-corp-ignored-wall-street-journal-aberrant-circulation-data.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company facing
an investor uprising over its business practices, was alerted to
a plan to inflate circulation at the Wall Street Journal Europe
almost a year before the newspaper’s publisher resigned,
according to a former employee and internal documents.  Les Hinton , the former chief executive officer at the News
Corp. unit that publishes the Wall Street Journal Europe, was
contacted with details of the payment practice in November 2010,
according to former circulation manager Gert Van Mol and e-mails
he provided to Bloomberg News. Todd Larsen, president of the Dow
Jones & Co. unit, was also notified.  Van Mol said in the correspondence that a Dow Jones
business partner was being compensated at the same time that
partner was buying thousands of copies of the Wall Street
Journal  Europe , effectively boosting the publication’s
circulation. Andrew Langhoff, the newspaper’s publisher who
stepped down last week, had approved the payments, the
circulation manager said in the e-mails.  “It was a non-ethical practice,” Van Mol said in an
interview. “I didn’t want to be part of it, so I contacted
Hinton and Larsen.”  Bethany Sherman, a Dow Jones spokeswoman, declined to
comment on whether Hinton and Larsen had been alerted to the
payments last year. She said Dow Jones had been investigating
Van Mol for his “business dealings” for several months before
November 2010.  Already Under Fire  Sherman said Langhoff, 49, resigned because of the
perception the newspaper’s agreement with the Executive Learning
Partnership could have compromised editorial integrity. She said
his departure had nothing to do with the payments to ELP, a
Netherlands-based strategy and consulting firm, or with ELP’s
bulk newspaper purchases, which the company said are legitimate.  Hinton, who resigned in July after allegations of phone
hacking by journalists at a different News Corp. unit he ran for
12 years, didn’t respond to calls for comment. Langhoff also
didn’t return calls for comment.  London’s Guardian newspaper reported the payments to ELP
and the company’s bulk purchases last week.  News Corp., based in New York, is already under fire for
the phone-hacking scandal, which has led to the closing of the
168-year-old News of the World tabloid and investigations in the
U.K. and U.S. At the annual  shareholders’ meeting  Oct. 21, Chief
Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  will be confronted by investors
calling for changes in governance and business practices. The
proxy-advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services has told
clients to vote out 13 of 15 board members to install more
effective oversight of Murdoch and his lieutenants.  Additional Scrutiny  Murdoch may now face additional scrutiny over the Wall
Street Journal Europe, including whether it inflated circulation
figures and how long executives knew about the payments to ELP.
The  Audit Bureau of Circulations  in the U.K., which initially
verified the ELP contract, said last week it’s reexamining the
arrangement.  “If senior management was aware and it wasn’t a rogue
operation, that’s a huge problem,” said  Jeffrey Sonnenfeld ,
senior associate dean of the Yale University School of
Management. “There’s nothing they own that compares to the
reputation of a news company, especially the Wall Street
Journal.”  The deal approved by the British ABC boosted the Journal’s
circulation in ways that aren’t allowed in the U.S. Under the
agreement, ELP bought 12,000 copies of the Wall Street Journal
Europe at 1 euro cent (1.4 cents) each, compared with the 3 euro
newsstand price, and the papers counted as paid circulation.  ELP Controversy  The Wall Street Journal Europe’s bulk discounted purchases,
by ELP and other partners, accounted for 46,137, or 62 percent
of its total average daily circulation of 74,800, according to
ABC U.K.’s latest certificate on the newspaper. The Audit Bureau
in the U.S., which isn’t affiliated with the British group,
doesn’t count discounted bulk purchases as paid circulation.  “If I were an advertiser, I’d be concerned about how many
of these copies are being read,” Rick Edmonds, a media analyst
for the Poynter Institute, said in an interview. “If there are
really only about 30,000 people who are paying for the paper,
that’s not bad. But that’s circulation for a very small town.”  Such bulk purchasing agreements aren’t uncommon for Europe.
What was unusual were the additional perks ELP was getting: The
firm was receiving payments from Wall Street Journal Europe
partners at the same time it was buying newspapers, and ELP had
a role in coming up with story topics for the publication,
according to Van Mol and Dow Jones.  Book Party  Van Mol, a 45-year-old native of Antwerp who helped
organize bulk purchases of the newspaper by ELP and other
companies, was laid off by Dow Jones in January after nine years
at the company. He said in interviews with Bloomberg News that
he alerted senior people at Dow Jones because he was concerned
about the ELP deal.  In one instance, the Journal Europe staged a launch party
for a book written by Vineet Nayar, CEO of the Indian technology
firm  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT)  It took place at the Grosvenor House
hotel in London in September 2010 and included remarks by
Patience Wheatcroft, then editor of the newspaper. After the
event, Langhoff asked Van Mol to make sure ELP be paid 6,000
euros for the party.  “They just sent a moderator,” Van Mol said. “I didn’t
understand why Mr. Langhoff wanted me to direct profits from an
event to go to ELP when they didn’t have much to do.”  After the party, Langhoff told Van Mol to direct HCL to pay
16,000 euros to a third party, magazine publisher Banking &
Finance, or B&F, instead of directly to Journal Europe for the
event, according to two e-mails last year.  Legitimate Payment  The correspondence shows that executives wanted B&F, which
participated as a sponsor, to move the 16,000 euros to ELP,
along with an additional 2,000 euros from B&F for its own role
as a party sponsor. HCL should have simply paid Journal Europe
for its work setting up the event, Van Mol said.  Rien van Lent, a managing director of ELP who signed the
circulation contract with Journal Europe and is also a former
publisher of that newspaper, said the payment was legitimate.  “A facilitator of our company prepared and moderated for
that meeting,” he said in an interview. “She chaired that
meeting with HCL.”  Ranjana Sharma, a spokeswoman for HCL Technologies in
 London , said the company sponsored an event with Wall Street
Journal Europe in September 2010, though she declined to comment
about how payments were made. Michel Klompmaker, the publisher
of B&F, didn’t respond to calls and e-mails requesting comment.  ‘Admittedly Complex’  Van Mol said he initially refused to carry out the payment
plan and alerted Carol Bosack, human resources director for Dow
Jones in Europe. A few months after the book event, HCL still
hadn’t paid for the party, and Langhoff sent an e-mail to Van
Mol addressing the invoicing plan.  “I trust that you are aware of the details of these
payments, but for clarity I’ve attached a document with a schema
showing how I understand the money should flow,” Langhoff wrote
in an e-mail last November.  The document, reviewed by Bloomberg News, shows a diagram
drawn up in Excel with HCL paying 16,000 euros to B&F. B&F would
then pay 18,000 euros to ELP, according to Van Mol and
correspondence from another Dow Jones executive. After expenses,
ELP would hold onto 6,000 euros, according to Van Mol.  Sherman, the spokeswoman for Dow Jones, said in an e-mail
statement the payments were “admittedly complex but
nevertheless legitimate.”  ‘Felt Threatened’  Van Mol was directly involved in recruiting corporate
partners to buy newspapers in bulk, boosting circulation
figures. He designed the Future Leadership Institute, or FLI,
the marketing program to distribute copies of Wall Street
Journal Europe at events and seminars staged by the newspaper’s
circulation department, in collaboration with sponsor companies,
such as ELP.  Van Mol claims Langhoff altered the nature of the program
through the payment structure for these events and terms that
threatened to compromise editorial independence. Van Mol e-
mailed Hinton and Larsen in November, asking to be removed from
Langhoff’s team, according to his e-mails.  Within weeks, Dow Jones lawyer Tom Maher and Bosack went to
meet with Van Mol to hear his allegations against Langhoff,
according to both Van Mol and Dow Jones.  “They asked me to explain the money strings and the e-mail
from Langhoff,” Van Mol said. “After I explained everything, a
lady from their internal audit bureau said they received
anonymous accusations against me, for my expenses. I couldn’t
believe it. I was telling them something was wrong and they were
telling me I did something wrong. I felt threatened.”  ‘Friendly Redundancy’  After their December meeting, Bosack contacted Van Mol in
January to explain that his claims were without merit and that
he would be fired.  “They said it should be considered a ‘friendly
redundancy’,” Van Mol said. “And they also said it had nothing
to do with my accusations about Mr. Langhoff.”  Van Mol recently hired a lawyer to seek 11 months of
severance pay from Dow Jones, what he said was a legal
requirement in  Belgium  when an employee is terminated.  Sherman confirmed Van Mol’s position was eliminated and
declined to comment on his statement that he felt threatened.  Newspaper Clarification  The newspaper’s contract also calls for ELP involvement in
articles. It includes a provision that Wall Street Journal
Europe publish at least “three (3) special reports included as
a supplement within WSJE” featuring data and information from
ELP. While the contract includes a clause that gives the Wall
Street Journal Europe the right to decline to publish any
article, the newspaper published two stories that were based on
data from ELP and included interviews with ELP executives,
including van Lent.  Dow Jones recently appended the  articles  with a
 clarification  explaining the impetus for writing the stories was
the ELP agreement, though the reporting and writing was handled
solely by the news department.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  News Corp. continues to deal with fallout from the phone-
hacking scandal.  James Murdoch , deputy chief operating officer
and the CEO’s son, has been asked to return to Parliament to
respond to allegations by former employees that they told him in
2008 the phone hacking went beyond one rogue employee. Hinton,
the former head of Dow Jones and the unit that included the News
of the World, will be questioned by the U.K. House of Commons
Culture, Media and Sport Committee on Oct. 24.  ‘Issues Keep Coming’  “These issues keep coming,” said  Julie Tanner , assistant
director of socially responsible investing for New York-based
Christian Brothers Investment Services Inc., a News Corp.
shareholder. “There needs to be some real changes.”  Van Mol, who recently joined Belgian television station
Life!TV, was named by the Wall Street Journal in a recent
 article on the circulation deal with ELP . He said he was
identified without his consent, a move he sees as News Corp.’s
attempt to silence him.  “It’s so dangerous,” Van Mol said. “Suppose there’s
another employee who sees a problem, and if you bring that
problem to the table, your name will be in the newspaper? This
is dangerous to the company culture.”  Sherman, the Dow Jones spokesman, said Van Mol’s assertion
is incorrect. His name was uncovered through the standard
reporting process and the terms of the interview were clearly
communicated, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  