-- 
Nigeria Starts Sovereign Wealth Fund With $1 Billion

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-10-18T16:28:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/nigeria-starts-sovereign-wealth-fund-with-1-billion-1-.html
Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer,
started a sovereign wealth fund with an initial capital of $1
billion and hired  KPMG  to select its management team.  “It is clear that given current challenges facing our
economy and the global financial crisis, we cannot afford to
waste any more time,” Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala told
reporters in Abuja today. “What we have done can be compared to
opening an account for the sovereign wealth fund and commencing
with other necessary procedures in preparation for full
implementation.”  The management of the fund is expected to be approved in
mid-December by President Goodluck Jonathan, she said.  The Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority will be split
into the  Nigeria  Infrastructure Fund, the Future Generations
Fund and the Stabilization Fund, according to the bill signed
into law by Jonathan in May. Each component will represent at
least 20 percent of the total.  The fund is designed to ensure some of Nigeria’s oil wealth
is saved and can’t be tapped on a regular basis to finance the
government’s running costs. The fund will help the country save
for the future, invest in strategic infrastructure projects in
Africa’s most populous nation and act as a “buffer” against
volatile  oil prices , Okonjo-Iweala said.  The West African country relies on crude exports for about
95 percent of its foreign-currency earnings. It’s the only
member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
without a sovereign fund, according to the Information Ministry.  Oil is currently trading at just above $110 a barrel,
compared with the $75 anticipated in Nigeria’s 2012 budget.  Nigeria’s excess crude-account balance will be about $5
billion after $1 billion is used as initial capital for the
wealth fund, the finance minister said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  