-- 
TNK-BP Holding May Join Class Action Suit Against BP Directors

-- B y   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 
2011-10-18T08:12:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/tnk-bp-holding-board-to-consider-joining-lawsuit-in-tyumen-court.html
OAO TNK-BP Holding,  Russia ’s third-
biggest oil producer, may join a lawsuit brought by minority
shareholders after the collapse of parent company  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
planned alliance with state-run OAO Rosneft.  The board will consider taking part in the suit filed
through the Tyumen arbitration court in Siberia at an Oct. 24
meeting, the Moscow-traded unit of BP’s joint venture with a
group of billionaires said today in a regulatory filing.  Minority investor Andrey Prokhorov last month called on
TNK-BP Holding and shareholders to participate in an 87 billion-
ruble ($2.8 billion) class action suit against the U.K explorer.
BP failed to notify its Russian shareholders about the proposed
share swap and Arctic exploration alliance with Rosneft that
ended in failure, he said.  Prokhorov, who owns 0.0000106 percent of  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) ,
failed to meet the 1 percent ownership threshold needed to sue
the board directors after the Tyumen court rejected his request
to extend an Oct. 11 deadline, BP said last week. Prokhorov’s
lawyers declined to say if any other shareholders had joined in
the initial claim.  “The prerogative of deciding TBH participation in these
legal proceedings lies within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
board of directors of TNK-BP Holding and does not involve
participation of the company’s management,” TNK-BP Holding said
in an e-mailed statement.  Mikhail Fridman , a billionaire shareholder through  Alfa
Group , is TNK-BP’s interim chief executive officer, and  German Khan , another Alfa Group founder, is executive director. Alfa is
part of the AAR group that owns half of TNK-BP.  The deal fell apart in May after a challenge from BP ’s
billionaire partners, who said a shareholder agreement gave the
venture exclusive rights to pursue the project.  Prokhorov is also seeking 409 billion rubles from BP and BP
Russian Investments Ltd. in damages, representing the increase
in the price of the Rosneft stake that BP had planned to acquire
in the share swap and estimated lost earnings, according to his
lawyers. The hearing in the Tyumen court is due on Nov. 11.  The claims are “legally absurd,” said  Vladimir Buyanov , a
Moscow-based spokesman for BP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  