-- 
Infants Shouldn’t Watch TV on Potential Learning Delays, Pediatricians Say

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-10-18T18:04:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/no-tv-for-2-year-olds-because-it-slows-learning-doctors-say.html
Children under the age of 2
shouldn’t watch television or videos because studies suggest it
may delay their development, including the ability to talk,
according to a group of pediatricians.  The advice about young children and television was first
issued in 1999 by  the American Academy of Pediatricians . Today,
the group, which is meeting in  Boston , reiterated its
recommendations based on the introduction of numerous screen
devices and a decade’s worth of new studies on the negative
effects of TV on learning, thinking, language skills, mood
and behavior.  Children learn more from play and interaction with people,
the doctors said. Further, parents who watch their own programs
while a child is around may be distracted, and that detracts
from play and activities that are key to a child’s development.
Parents should avoid placing a television set in their
children’s bedrooms, and be aware that their own  media use  may
have a negative effect on their children, the group said.  “The concerns raised in the original policy statement are
even more relevant now, which led us to develop a more
comprehensive piece of guidance around this age group,” said
Ari Brown, in a statement released by the doctor group today.
The policy statement will be published in the November 2011
issue of the journal Pediatrics.  The recommendations add data showing that TV viewing around
bedtime causes poor sleep and that young children with “heavy
media use” are at risk for language delays once they start
school.  Findings also have shown that video programs marketed as
“educational” for infants and toddlers aren’t backed by
evidence to support that claim, the doctor group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 