-- 
Nokia May Post Loss, Lower Sales Before Windows Phone Debut

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-10-19T07:44:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/nokia-may-report-loss-falling-sales-before-windows-phone-debut.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  may report a second
consecutive quarterly loss tomorrow, with smartphone shipments
falling to the lowest since 2009, as the company prepares its
first handsets based on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone 7.  The third-quarter net loss may have reached 241 million
euros ($330 million), after a 368 million-euro loss in the
second quarter, according to the average of 22 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of smartphones, which have
computer-like features, may have fallen 41 percent to 15.7
million units from a year earlier, analysts estimated.  Nokia’s stock has slumped 46 percent in the eight months
since Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop decided to phase out
the company’s 10-year-old Symbian operating system and switch to
Microsoft software to help win back customers from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Elop is set to introduce a new line based on
Windows Phone 7 at the Nokia World event in  London  next week.  “The No. 1 thing is the guidance for fourth quarter,
because that indicates what they expect to get from the first
Windows Phone devices,” said Mikko Ervasti, an Evli Bank
analyst in Helsinki who advises buying Nokia shares.  Nokia, based in Espoo, Finland, has lost more than half its
smartphone market share since the introduction of Apple’s iPhone
in 2007 as it struggled with outdated Symbian software. Its
share of the smartphone market declined to 20.9 percent in the
second quarter, according to researcher Gartner Inc. It was  50.8
percent  in the second quarter of 2007.  Apple Misses  Cupertino, California-based Apple yesterday reported profit
and sales that missed analyst estimates as iPhone sales
disappointed. Apple sold 17.07 million iPhones, compared with
the 20 million predicted by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Consumers held off buying the smartphone ahead of the release of
a new version last week, after the quarter ended.  The 15.7 million estimated third-quarter smartphone sales
at Nokia would be the lowest since the first quarter of 2009,
when the company shipped 13.7 million of the advanced handsets.  Michael Schroeder , a Helsinki-based analyst at FIM Bank,
said shipments may have fallen to as few as 12 million units
last quarter, dropping further to 10 million in the current
quarter, because Windows Phone devices probably won’t be sold in
“meaningful volumes” until 2012. Schroeder cut his rating on
Nokia to “hold” from “accumulate” on Oct. 17.  The shares added 0.2 percent to 4.41 euros as of 10:41 a.m.
in Helsinki. They have dropped about 44 percent since Elop, a
former Microsoft executive, took over in September last year.
The company has a market value of 16.5 billion euros.  Sales Fall  Nokia is scheduled to report earnings at about 1 p.m. in
 Finland  tomorrow, with a conference call at 3 p.m. that can be
monitored through the company’s website.  Third-quarter sales were probably 8.8 billion euros, a 14
percent decline from a year earlier and 5.2 percent lower than
the previous quarter, according to analyst estimates. Adjusted
profit margin in the handset division may have been 1.5 percent
below breakeven, the estimates show.  Nokia may have shipped 78.7 million lower-priced phones,
compared with 83.9 million a year earlier, even after pushing
out dual-SIM models in  India  and resolving inventory problems in
 China , analysts estimated. The shift of demand to more complex
handsets is prompting the venture between Sony Corp. and
Ericsson AB to exit its low-end phone business.  Handset makers typically have their biggest sales in the
fourth quarter as carriers in the U.S. and  Europe  promote
holiday offers. Apple set a record of selling more than 4
million iPhone 4S devices over the debut weekend.  Nokia Siemens  “Anything that alludes to a seasonal build, quarter-on-
quarter growth of 10 percent or more, will be treated favorably
by investors,” said  Lee Simpson , an analyst at Jefferies
International in London who recommends holding the shares.  Nokia said in February that it aimed to sell another 150
million Symbian devices before ending that range. Since the
Microsoft linkup in February, Nokia has made two major updates
and introduced seven Symbian handsets.  The Nokia Siemens network equipment venture may have had
sales of 3.4 billion euros, according to the average of 19
analyst estimates. The 50-50 venture with  Siemens AG (SIE)  may report
an operating loss of 66 million euros, giving it a margin of 2
percent below breakeven. Nokia  forecast  the unit would have a
loss margin of zero to 3 percent on sales of 3.2 billion euros
to 3.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  