-- 
Norway May Push Back Rate Increases as Crisis Threatens Growth

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-10-18T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/norway-may-push-back-rate-increases-as-crisis-threatens-growth.html
Norway ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged and delay tightening
plans until next year as Europe’s debt crisis and slowing U.S.
growth dim prospects for the second-largest Nordic economy.  The overnight deposit rate will be kept at 2.25 percent for
a fourth consecutive meeting in a decision scheduled for 2 p.m.
today in Oslo, according to 21 of 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. One economist predicts a cut. The Oslo-based bank may
also lower its current forecast for the benchmark to average
2.65 percent this quarter.  Policy makers in the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter
abandoned a rate increase in August after stocks plunged and
global recovery prospects faded. Since then,  Europe  has made
little headway in fixing its debt crisis while  China’s economy 
slowed the most in two years, according to third-quarter data.  “The international development since June implies weaker
demand for exports, worsening financing conditions and that
households and businesses may prefer to cut back on spending,”
said Bjoern-Roger Wilhelmsen, chief currency strategist at First
Securities ASA in Oslo and a former central bank economist. The
bank will keep rates unchanged until May, before gradually
increasing to 3 percent by the end of next year, he said.  Frankfurt to Stockholm  After keeping rates on hold at its last meeting on Sept.
21, Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad signaled that the rate may
be kept unchanged for the rest of the year.  Policy makers in  Frankfurt ,  Washington  and neighboring
Sweden have also scrapped plans to raise rates or indicated that
monetary policy will remain accommodative to buoy growth. Group
of 20 finance ministers and central bankers concluded weekend
talks in Paris endorsing parts of Europe’s emerging plan to
avoid a default by  Greece , bolster banks and limit a contagion
to other countries. Providing a week to act, they set the Oct.
23 meeting of European leaders in Brussels as the deadline.  “The picture is characterized by great uncertainty,”
Norway Central Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen told reporters last
week, after meeting with the prime minister and finance minister
in Oslo to discuss ramifications for Norway. “Internationally,
growth expectations have been reduced and ARE weaker than we had
previously expected.”  Budget Stimulus  The government this month pledged to increase spending of
oil money next year to guard against a slowdown. Finance
Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen cut the 2011 growth forecast for the
mainland economy, which excludes oil, gas and shipping, to 2.8
percent from a May estimate of 3.2 percent. The government
expects mainland gross domestic product to grow 3.1 percent next
year, after saying its 2012 budget is expected to stimulate the
economy by 0.3 percentage point.  Norway has been largely shielded from the European crisis
because of its oil and gas wealth. The country is also the
second-largest gas exporter and has stored most its revenue in a
$530 billion sovereign-wealth fund. Norges Bank in June forecast
it would raise the rate to an average of 2.65 percent in the
fourth quarter to keep inflation in check after unemployment
dipped below 3 percent,  home prices  and  consumer credit  surged.  Still, price growth has remained below the central bank’s
2.5 percent target since 2009. Norway’s underlying inflation
rate, adjusted for taxes, fees and energy, climbed to 1.2
percent in September from 0.8 percent the previous month.
Registered unemployment dropped to 2.5 percent in September from
2.7 percent in August.  Debt Growth  The central bank is trying to temper a rise in  consumer
debt  as property prices have surged beyond records from before
the crisis in 2008 and 2009.  House prices  rose an annual 8.3
percent last quarter,  Statistics Norway  said last week. The
country’s financial watchdog has warned households that low
borrowing costs, coupled with lax lending practicing risks
fueling a housing bubble.  “Domestic demand is still driven by low real interest
rates, expansionary fiscal policy and high global oil
investments,” Frank Jullum, chief economist in Norway for
Danske Bank A/S, said in a note. “The rise in house prices will
have an impact on the real economy and hence on inflation.”  While pressured domestically, policy makers have also
pledged to keep rates close to those of other countries to avoid
krone gains that hurt exporters. Last month, the krone jumped to
its highest level versus the euro since 2003 after the Swiss
central bank acted to stem gains in its currency. The krone has
since lost 3.4 percent versus the common currency.  Norway’s 2.25 percent benchmark rate is higher than the
 European Central Bank ’s 1.5 percent,  Sweden ’s 2 percent rate and
the U.K.’s 0.5 percent rate. In the U.S., the rate is set at
near zero.  “The Riksbank has lowered its rate path substantially and
the European Central Bank is not supposed to have an upside bias
to the policy rate,”  Kyrre Aamdal , a senior economist at DnB
NOR ASA, said in an Oct. 14 note. “This reduces the room for a
rate hike from Norges Bank.”  -- With assistance by Joel Rinneby in Stockholm, Editors: Jonas Bergman, Tasneem Brogger  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  