-- 
Novolipetsk Sees 2011 Steel Output at Record 12 Million Tons

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-10-18T08:03:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/novolipetsk-sees-2011-steel-output-at-record-12-million-tons-1-.html
OAO Novolipetsk Steel, billionaire
 Vladimir Lisin ’s steelmaker, expects to report record output
this year as it starts a new blast furnace at its main
production site in central  Russia .  Crude-steel output may reach 12 million metric tons in
2011, up from 11.5 million tons last year, the company known as
NLMK said today in a statement. Production will climb 10 percent
this quarter from the previous three months, it said.  NLMK is raising steel output in Russia to benefit from
wider profit margins in the country, where production costs are
lower than in western Europe and the U.S. The company will
produce semi-finished steel at the new furnace in Lipetsk, 440
kilometers (270 miles) southeast of Moscow, before shipping it
abroad to be processed for consumers.  NLMK, which reported second-quarter sales of $2.98 billion,
expects to post a 5 percent increase in third-quarter revenue,
according to the statement. The company is scheduled to publish
 results  around Nov. 7.  The margin on earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization, a measure of profitability, probably fell to
20 percent last quarter from 28 percent in the previous three
months as the company integrated lower-margin steel-rolling
mills in  Europe  and the U.S., it said.  In July, NLMK completed the $600 million acquisition of
seven rolling mills in Europe and the U.S. in bid to become a
global company. It previously owned 50 percent of the assets via
a joint venture with Duferco Group and didn’t include them on
its balance sheet. As a result of the purchase, third-quarter
steel-product sales jumped 11 percent from the prior quarter to
3.4 million tons, the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  