-- 
NYC Commercial-Property Dollar Volume Fell in Third Quarter

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-10-18T18:54:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/nyc-commercial-real-estate-dollar-volume-falls-in-third-quarter.html
The dollar volume of New York City
commercial-property sales fell 25 percent in the third quarter
from a three-year high, Massey Knakal Realty Services said.  Deals totaled about $6.5 billion in the three months
through September, down from $8.7 billion in the second quarter,
according to a report by the brokerage. The report included
transactions for offices, apartment buildings, hotels, retail
properties and development sites across the five boroughs.  The decline in dollar volume “might be interpreted as a
slowing down in the market,” Chairman Robert Knakal said today
at a press briefing. “But if you eliminate the second quarter,
the $6.5 billion in the third quarter was the best quarterly
total going back to the third quarter of 2008.”  Constrained supply and a pullback in the market for
commercial-mortgage backed securities limited deals for the
largest properties, Knakal said. The city is on a pace for about
$25 billion of commercial real estate transactions this year,
about an 80 percent increase over 2010 and close to the $25.3
billion sold in 2008, according to the report.  Manhattan Sales  Manhattan south of 96th Street on the east side and south
of 110th Street on the west side accounted for the majority of
third-quarter dollar volume. Sales in those areas totaled about
$5.7 billion, a 28 percent drop from the previous three months.
Deals for office buildings made up 40 percent of the dollar
volume, according to the brokerage, which specializes in small
to midsize transactions.  Events that roiled investment markets in the quarter, such
as the budget debate in Congress, the  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and  Europe ’s debt crisis,
failed to slow sales of certain property types and in some
neighborhoods, Massey Knakal executives said.  Brooklyn , for example, is poised to have its first year
with more than $1 billion in transactions since 2008, when just
over $2 billion of deals were struck, said Michael Ambrosio, a
broker with Massey Knakal. Apartments led deals, comprising 150
of the 529 properties sold in the borough this year.  Small private-equity firms new to the market are helping to
drive sales in Brooklyn, according to Ambrosio. Areas near the
Atlantic Yards development in the borough’s downtown are
attracting interest, along with Bedford-Stuyvesant and Crown
Heights, he said.  First-Time Buyers  Demand from buyers new to the city is helping to prop up
the  property market  as “unrest in Europe and the potential
impact on global markets has investors feeling a bit more
cautious,” Knakal said.  Among the newer buyers is UDR Inc., a Highlands Ranch,
Colorado-based apartment landlord that has purchased $1.2
billion of New York properties this year, accounting for 7
percent of Manhattan deals, according to James Nelson, a Massey
Knakal partner.  It’s too early to tell whether the decline in volume in the
third quarter will carry over into the next three months, Knakal
said. The city’s job growth has been “lackluster,” he said,
and there’s still “very significant shadow distress” in the
market, with hundreds of buildings that are worth less than
their mortgage balance yet still have positive  cash flow  because
of low  interest rates .  “We think there’s going to be a lot of upward pressure
exerted on rates,” Knakal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  