-- 
Oakland Raiders Trade Draft Picks to Bengals for Quarterback Carson Palmer

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-10-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/oakland-raiders-trade-draft-picks-to-bengals-for-quarterback-carson-palmer.html
Two days after they lost starting
quarterback Jason Campbell to a broken collarbone, the  Oakland
Raiders  acquired Carson Palmer from the  Cincinnati Bengals  in
exchange for two draft picks.  Palmer, a two-time Pro Bowl selection, hasn’t played since
requesting a trade from the Bengals after a 4-12 record last
season. Palmer told Cincinnati television station WCPO in March
that he’d rather retire than rejoin the Bengals, who replaced
him with rookie Andy Dalton and have a 4-2 record this year.  The Bengals will get a first-round draft choice in 2012
and a second-round selection in 2013 from the Raiders.  “Several factors made us believe that trading Carson to
Oakland was the best move for the Bengals at this time,”
Bengals president  Mike Brown  said yesterday in a statement.
“The principal development has been Andy Dalton, who has shown
himself to be one of the best and most exciting young
quarterbacks in the NFL.”  Palmer, 31, had 22,694 yards passing and 154 touchdown
throws over seven seasons in Cincinnati and gives the Raiders
an experienced replacement for Campbell, who had led the team
to a 4-2 start. Palmer said he received a text message at 4
a.m. telling him the two sides agreed to the trade.  “I understand what’s expected of me,” Palmer said at a
news conference yesterday in Oakland. “I want to come in and
contribute and do whatever I can to help this team.”  Playoff Drought  Oakland, which featured quarterbacks such as Daryle Lamonica, Ken Stabler and Jim Plunkett in the 1970s and ‘80s,
hasn’t finished with a winning record or made the National
Football League playoffs since the 2002 season.  When Campbell was injured in this past weekend’s win
against  Cleveland , the Raiders’ remaining quarterbacks were
Kyle Boller and Terrelle Pryor. The Raiders last year released
quarterback JaMarcus Russell, the No. 1 pick in the 2007 draft,
after he won seven games in three seasons with the team.  By trading next year’s first-round pick for Palmer, the
Raiders would be left with only fifth- and sixth-round
selections in 2012. Oakland previously dealt a fourth-round
pick to the  Washington Redskins  to acquire Campbell last year
and gave up their 2012 third-round choice to take Pryor out of
Ohio State in the NFL’s supplemental draft.  “I never hesitated because I knew exactly what I was
getting,” said Raiders coach Hue Jackson, who recruited Palmer
at the  University of Southern California  and was a receivers
coach in Cincinnati from 2004 to 2006. “I know what we’re
putting on this football team.”  Heisman Winner  Palmer won the Heisman Trophy as college football’s best
player at USC and was the first pick in the 2003  NFL draft .
He’s agreed to restructure the $118.75 million contract
extension he signed with the Bengals in 2005, ESPN said, citing
unidentified people.  Palmer has been working out in  Southern California  with
former New York Jets quarterback Ken O’Brien. While Jackson
wouldn’t say whether Palmer might play in this week’s game
against the  Kansas City Chiefs , Palmer said he’s ready to go.  “I’ve worked out, I’ve continued to stay focused on
football and keep my mind on football,” Palmer said. “I
haven’t been playing it for six weeks, but my mind has been in
it. I’m ready to go and I’m excited.”  Palmer passed for 3,970 yards, 26 touchdowns and 20
interceptions for the Bengals last season. He was voted to the
 Pro Bowl  for the first time in 2005, when he threw for 32
touchdowns and 12 interceptions to lead Cincinnati to an 11-5
record, and topped 4,000 passing yards in each of the next two
seasons. Palmer had a 46-51 record as the Bengals’ starter.  The NFL’s trade deadline was at 4 p.m. New York time
yesterday. The  Philadelphia Eagles  traded Ronnie Brown to the
 Detroit Lions  for Jerome Harrison in a swap of backup running
backs. The  St. Louis Rams  a day earlier had acquired wide
receiver Brandon Lloyd from the  Denver Broncos  for a 2012 draft
pick.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  