-- 
Obama Finds Economy Makes Policies a Hard Sell on Bus Tour

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-10-19T04:01:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/obama-finds-economy-makes-policies-a-hard-sell-on-bus-tour.html
Lisa Hensley was thrilled when
President  Barack Obama  unexpectedly showed up during the lunch
hour at the Countryside Barbeque in Marion, North Carolina, a
town of about 8,000 along the Blue Ridge Mountains.  A registered Democrat, the 50-year-old accountant echoed
the president’s message on his three-day bus trip through North
Carolina and  Virginia : “We need to be for America, not just for
Democrats or Republicans,” Hensley said.  Still, she said she won’t be voting for Obama next year.  “Not unless something changes dramatically,” she said
after Obama greeted diners on Oct. 17. “It would have to be
something monumental.”  Hensley’s dissatisfaction with the president stems from the
performance of the  U.S. economy , and it underscores a central
challenge for Obama’s re-election campaign in the battleground
states that he won in 2008: His ability to deliver the kind of
change Hensley wants is limited.  With opponents framing the 2012 election as a referendum on
the president’s handling of the economy, Obama is using a three-
day bus tour through  North Carolina  and Virginia that ends today
to sharpen his attacks against Republicans, who have blocked his
latest plan to use a combination of tax cuts and  government
spending  to reignite growth and hiring.  Now he wants Congress to take up components of the $447
billion proposal he offered last month.  “We’re going to give them another chance to listen to you,
to step up to the plate, to do the right thing,” Obama said
last night at Greensville County High School in Emporia,
Virginia. “We will give them another chance to do their jobs so
that you can keep your job, or get a job.”  Battleground States  Obama won Virginia and North Carolina, two Republican-
leaning states, in 2008 and their combined 28 of the 270
electoral votes needed to win the presidency. He is trying to
hold both next year, especially as he will likely be battling to
keep swing states such as Ohio and  Pennsylvania  in the
Democratic column.  North Carolina’s unemployment rate is above the national
average, at 10.4 percent. While that is down from the high point
of 11.3 percent in February 2010, it is well above the 4.7
percent rate the state experienced in June 2007.  Virginia, which has a broader base of military and other
federal government jobs, wasn’t hit as hard by the recession.
Still, the jobless rate there rose to 7.2 percent in December
2009 from a low of 2.8 percent in March 2007. It was 6.3 percent
in August.  Job Approval  An Oct. 6  Public Policy Polling  survey shows just 44
percent of North Carolinians approve of Obama’s job performance,
and 53 percent disapprove. The president’s narrow win in North
Carolina in 2008 -- by 0.3 percent of the vote -- made him the
first Democratic presidential nominee to capture the state since
 Jimmy Carter  in 1976.  An Oct. 11  Quinnipiac University poll  shows Obama’s job
approval rating at 45 percent in Virginia, up slightly from 40
percent in September. Still, 52 percent disapprove. Obama took
52.6 percent of the vote there in the last election, the first
time a Democrat had won the state since  Lyndon Johnson  in 1964.  Obama’s advisers say the president’s approval ratings will
likely remain low until the Republicans settle on their
presidential nominee. In the meantime, they say, Obama is
presenting voters with a choice -- contrasting his jobs
proposal, which the White House says will immediately boost
employment and improve the economy, with what they describe as
Republican efforts to block progress while also trying to roll
back the president’s signature legislative accomplishments,
including health-care overhaul and financial-market regulation.  Hitting Republicans  Obama has sought to tap populist anger and direct it at
congressional Republicans.  The Republican plan would “gut regulations” and “let
 Wall Street  do whatever it wants,” Obama said at Asheville
Regional Airport, where he started the three-day bus tour.  In a separate interview with ABC News, Obama said the
public’s frustration is evident in the Occupy Wall Street
protests that have sprung in cities across the country as well
as in the Tea Party movement.  “Both on the left and the right, I think people feel
separated from their government,” Obama said in the interview,
excerpts of which were released by the network. “They feel that
their institutions aren’t looking out for them.”  He said his proposals to raise taxes for the wealthiest
Americans and close loopholes for some corporations, including
oil and gas companies, will restore the sense that “we’re also
asking a fair share from everybody” for the country.  “If we can go back to that, then I think a lot of that
anger, that frustration dissipates,” he told ABC.  Outside  Washington   This trip marks the second time Obama has traveled to North
Carolina and Virginia since announcing his jobs plan on Sept. 8.
He has also stopped in the crucial swing states of  Ohio ,
 Colorado , Pennsylvania and  Michigan .  “He is taking a fight that has largely been an inside-
Washington fight and moving it out to the country,” said
 Quentin Kidd , a political scientist at Christopher Newport
University in Newport News, Virginia. “What he is doing, the
bus tours and such, is what he has to do to begin to engage
people.”  Obama said his strategy now is breaking up the $447 billion
measure he proposed in September into “some bite-sized
pieces.”  Action in Senate  That will start in the Senate, where Democrats have the
majority. Party leaders in the chamber are seeking a vote on a
provision that would provide $35 billion in aid to states for
teachers and emergency workers. That has been the primary focus
of Obama’s remarks on the bus trip.  In his remarks yesterday, Obama said his jobs initiative
would be paid for by raising taxes on the wealthiest Americans,
repeating several times that the top 1 or 2 percent of
Americans, including himself, should pay their “fair share.”  “The question is, if its paid for, won’t add to the
deficit, won’t result in increasing your taxes, will instead
result in lowering your taxes, will put people back to work at a
time when the  unemployment rate  is too high, why wouldn’t we do
it?” Obama said in Emporia. “It turns out that folks in
Washington aren’t listening to you.”  The legislation is unlikely to pass. Republicans, who have
a majority in the House and enough votes in the Senate to block
consideration of legislation, have rejected raising taxes. They
also object to additional spending when the nation is struggling
with a  budget deficit  that was $1.3 trillion in the fiscal year
that ended Sept. 30. It was the third consecutive year that the
shortfall has exceeded $1 trillion.  Blame Republicans  The Republican leader in the Senate,  Mitch McConnell  of
 Kentucky , said Obama is trying to blame Republicans because his
previous initiatives have failed to lift the economy.  “I know he’s desperately interested in trying to blame
anybody else, but he’s the president of the  United States ; he
set the agenda; he got everything he wanted, and it didn’t
work,” McConnell told reporters in Washington yesterday.  When the president took an August bus tour through parts of
 Minnesota , Iowa and  Illinois , he held town-hall style meetings
and answered questions from the audience. This trip is more
scripted. Other than a forum with teachers yesterday, he has
kept to the same speech outline.  While the crowds have largely been supportive, that isn’t
necessarily an indicator for the president’s political
prospects.  North Carolinians “are just gracious and kind,” Obama
said before heading into Virginia.  “Even the folks who don’t vote for me are nice to me,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Emporia, Virginia, at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  