-- 
Obama Should Steer Clear of Cheap Shots at Wall Street: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-18T00:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/obama-s-campaign-won-t-advance-by-taking-cheap-shots-at-wall-street-view.html
The  Washington  Post  reports  that
President  Barack Obama  has decided to make anti- Wall-Street 
rhetoric a “central tenet” of his re-election strategy. This is
a terrible idea, and we urge the president to reconsider.  Perhaps he already has. At the opening of the Martin Luther King Jr.memorial on Sunday, Obama said that if King were alive
today, “he would remind us that the unemployed worker can
rightly challenge the excesses of Wall Street without demonizing
all who work there.”  We support Obama’s stance that people who earn more than
$200,000 (or $250,000 for a couple) ought to contribute more to
the public weal. Critics call this “class warfare,” but it
needn’t be. The intention isn’t to punish the rich, nor to
suggest that people with high incomes are bad. The intention is
to raise the money necessary to finance the amount of government
we want, and to do so as fairly as possible. Those who have been
luckiest in the lottery of life -- whether by talent or trust
fund -- have also, in recent years, been luckiest in rates of
taxation, as  Warren Buffett  has vividly demonstrated by
comparing his average rate with that of his secretary.  It becomes difficult, however, to maintain that there is no
invidious intention if proposals to raise taxes are justified by
rhetoric suggesting that Wall Street or the banking industry or
wealthy people in general have misbehaved in some way that hurts
the rest of us.  Cheap populist rhetoric would seem absurd coming from an
administration that has hired heavily from the financial
industry and raised plenty of campaign contributions from rich
people. Wall Street certainly deserves criticism, but not
everybody with income over $200,000 works in finance. Such
rhetoric would also appear opportunistic, with the Obama
administration finding targets even more unpopular than itself
to pick on. And it gives a needless weapon to conservative
critics of the Dodd-Frank financial consumer protection bill --
an Obama victory that Republicans promise to repeal if they
regain the White House.  After Representative Gabrielle Giffords was shot in  Arizona 
last January, everyone in Washington promised to try to bring
more civility into political debate. We believe that this would
not only be a good thing on the merits, but on balance would
help the Democrats, who have not sunk to quite the depths of
incivility as the other party. Why would President Obama, as a
Democrat running for re-election or as a president trying to
lead his people in turbulent times, want to make incivility a
“central tenet” of his re-election campaign? Nastiness is a game
he cannot win.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 