-- 
Lockhart Says Economic Data More Upbeat, Reducing Downturn

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-10-19T01:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/lockhart-says-economic-data-more-upbeat-reducing-downturn.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said recent economic reports have been
brighter than economists expected, reducing the odds the U.S.
will tip back into a recession.  “My view is that this worst-case scenario is less likely
than it appeared to be a couple of months ago,” Lockhart said
today in Chattanooga, Tennessee. “I don’t expect a double-dip
recession,” he said, citing “recent positive surprises in the
data.”  Lockhart has supported the central bank’s use of
unconventional policy instruments at its last two meetings to
revive a recovery that has left the  unemployment rate  stuck near
9 percent or higher for 30 consecutive months. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  in August pledged to hold interest rates near
zero until mid-2013, and in September the Fed announced it would
swap $400 billion of short-term debt for longer-term debt in a
bid to lower interest rates.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today the Fed, while keeping
its target interest rate close to zero, will probably use more
specific communications about its policies to provide stimulus.
“I expect to see increasing use of such tools in the future,”
he said at a Boston Fed economic conference.  Lockhart told reporters after his speech he remains open to
considering new forms of stimulus, including communications,
even though economic reports have been better than expected and
there is a possibility the economy “will accelerate a little.”  ‘Bit of Patience’  “The growth pace could allow exercising a little bit of
patience, but the fact that we cannot avoid is unemployment
remains at 9.1 percent,” he said. “You have to look at the
situation holistically.”  Still, an additional large-scale asset program isn’t
warranted because there is no risk of falling prices, unlike
last year, Lockhart told reporters.  “It requires circumstances we are not facing at the moment
-- that is, the onset of a recession, deflationary pressures and
seriously rising unemployment,” he said.  Lockhart said in response to audience questions that the
Fed’s balance sheet may remain near record levels for some time
because there must be some “consistency” between  interest
rates  and the balance sheet. He told reporters later that a big
shrinkage in the balance sheet would be considered a tightening
in policy.  ‘Modest’ Impact  The Atlanta Fed chief also said Operation Twist, the Fed’s
most recent initiative, will probably have only a “modest”
impact on the economy by itself and needed to be viewed as one
of a series of steps intended to bolster growth.  He also told questioners that inflation was “a little
higher than I would like to see,” yet it is likely to settle
around the central bank’s informal target of about 2 percent.  “For the third quarter at least, it appears that
downgrades of growth forecasts have been too pessimistic,”
Lockhart said in prepared remarks to the Chartered Financial
Analyst Society of East  Tennessee . “In October, surprises have
generally been to the upside. Importantly, these surprises to
the upside exceeded expectations by a significant measure.”  “An unqualified narrative of a downward trend is
unjustified,” he said.  Economic growth picked up in the past quarter to 2 percent,
according to the median of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News from Oct. 5 to Oct. 11. Employment increased by 103,000
last month and the jobless rate held at 9.1 percent, Labor
Department figures showed Oct. 7.  Below Forecasts  Lockhart contrasted recent reports with gross domestic
product in the first half, which fell below forecasts. Still, he
said private forecasters are expecting only about 2.5 percent
growth in 2012, too slow to make much progress in reducing
unemployment.  “There are a number of reasons to be cautious about
predicting anything stronger than about 2.5 percent” from here,
Lockhart said, citing research by economists  Carmen Reinhart  and
 Kenneth Rogoff  finding anemic growth for long periods after
financial crises.  Household debt reduction, a decline in home values and
government spending cuts at the local, state and federal level,
give the economy “a fragile feel,” he said. The European debt
crisis and the possible further loss of confidence if
congressional negotiations to reduce the deficit fail pose the
biggest threats to growth, he said.  The Atlanta Fed leader didn’t discuss future policy options
in his prepared remarks. Earlier this month, he told reporters
he was “agnostic” about additional moves, “not taking a
position one way or another.”  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  