-- 
Oil Trades Near Highest in a Month as Goldman Sees ’Upside Risk’

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-10-19T06:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/oil-trades-near-month-high-as-europe-outlook-counters-stockpiles-forecast.html
Oil traded near the highest price in
more a month after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  cited “upside”
potential, countering forecasts for rising U.S. inventories.  Futures were little changed after advancing 2.3 percent
yesterday before Energy Department data today that may show
supplies climbed 2 million barrels. An industry report that is
often a precursor for U.S. stockpiles indicated yesterday
that they dropped for a third week. An improving economic 
outlook in Europe and declining crude supplies may present 
“a real upside risk” to Brent prices, Goldman Sachs said in
a report yesterday.  “The market’s just looking for some sort of price
direction,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney who predicts prices will trade between $80
and $90 a barrel. “Traders aren’t willing to push prices higher
given the weak economic outlook in the U.S. and what’s happening
in  Europe .”  Crude for November delivery was at $88.48 a barrel, up 0.2
percent, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 2:08 p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday
rose $1.96 to $88.34, the highest close since Sept. 15. The
more-actively traded December contract increased 15 cents to
$88.68. Prices are down 3.6 percent this year.  Brent oil for December settlement was at $111.54 a barrel,
up 0.4 percent, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The contract increased 0.9 percent to $111.15 yesterday.  Brent ‘Upside Risk’  Brent futures, which dropped 12 percent in London trading
in August and September, may fall “too low” because of
``uncertainty'' over the economy, Goldman Sachs said in its 
report. The so-called backwardation in Brent contracts, where
prices for soonest delivery are higher than those for later
months, creates an incentive to draw from inventories, Goldman
Sachs said.  “Persistent uncertainty over Europe would likely continue
to increase the upside risk to Brent crude oil prices,”  David Greely , a managing director for Goldman Sachs in  New York , said
in the report. “Destocking makes the market increasingly
vulnerable to upside demand surprises or supply shortfalls.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday that a
European Union summit on Oct. 23 will be an “important step”
though not the final one to solve the region’s sovereign debt
crisis.  U.S. crude oil supplies fell 3.1 million barrels last week,
the  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday. The Energy 
Department report today may show they climbed a second week, 
according to the median of 13 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg 
News survey.  Gasoline inventories dropped 1.6 million barrels, according
to API data. They are forecast to slip 1.5 million barrels, the
Bloomberg survey shows. Distillate stockpiles, including heating
oil and diesel, decreased 2.2 million barrels compared with an
estimate for a 1.5 million decline.  The industry-funded API collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  