-- 
Oil Drops For a Second Day After China’s Economy Grows Slowest Since 2009

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-10-18T12:07:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/oil-drops-for-a-second-day-after-china-s-economy-grows-slowest-since-2009.html
Oil fell for a second day in New
York after  China  said its economy grew at the slowest pace in
two years and U.S. crude stockpiles were forecast to increase.  Futures dropped as much as 1 percent, extending yesterday’s
0.5 percent decline, after China’s statistics bureau said the
economy grew at 9.1 percent in the third quarter, less than
predicted. An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S.
crude inventories climbed for a second week, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Technical indicators indicate prices may
have advanced too fast to be sustainable.  “The correction could go further, below $100” for London-
traded  Brent crude , said Eliane Tanner, an analyst at Bank
Sarasin & Cie AG in Zurich, who correctly predicted prices would
drop in the second half. “We’ll continue to see bouts of  risk
aversion  until there’s a solid solution to uncertainties in the
EU. The slowdown in Chinese economic growth is not surprising
after the monetary tightening.”  Crude for November delivery fell as much as 83 cents to
$85.55 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $85.89 at 1:03 p.m. London time. Prices are
down 6 percent this year.  Brent oil for December settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange dropped as much as $1.36, or 1.2
percent, to $108.80 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a premium of $23 to U.S. futures. The difference narrowed
16 percent yesterday, the most since June 16.  Stochastic Oscillators  Crude is extending losses in  New York  as the five-day
stochastic oscillators have risen above 70, signaling prices may
have climbed too quickly to be sustained, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investors tend to sell contracts when the
market is considered “overbought.”  U.S. crude stockpiles probably rose by 2 million barrels in
the week ended Oct. 14, according to the median estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before a weekly Energy
Department report tomorrow. All the respondents forecast an
increase from 337.6 million.  Gasoline supplies decreased 1 million barrels while
distillate-fuel inventories, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, fell 1.5 million barrels, according to the
survey. The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute 
publishes its weekly supply figures today.  China Growth Slows  China’s gross domestic product increased less than the
median estimate of 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 22
economists. The country consumes more crude than any nation
except the U.S.  “The number from China is getting a bit worse than
before,” said  Ken Hasegawa , an energy trading manager at broker
Newedge Group in  Tokyo , who forecasts prices will decline $5 a
barrel. “If the recovery of the economies in Europe and the
U.S. is getting worse, then the economies of China and  Asia  will
show some damage.”  Apparent oil demand in China, or the amount of processing
volume plus net imports, increased 2.8 percent to 8.949 million
barrels a day in September compared with a year ago. That’s down
from 7.97 percent year-on-year growth in August, based on
Bloomberg data.  Libya’s largest oil refinery at Ras Lanuf will be ready to
start operations next month, acting Chief Executive Officer Abdo
A. Ahmed at Libyan Emirates Refining Co. said yesterday. The
plant, which can process 220,000 barrels a day of crude, was
shut in March because of fighting between forces loyal to
 Muammar Qaddafi  and rebels seeking the former leader’s ouster.  Fighting has reduced the availability of light, sweet
crude, or oil with low density and sulfur content, from  Libya , a
member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The
country’s output fell to 45,000 barrels a day in August,
according to Bloomberg estimates. The North African nation
pumped 100,000 barrels a day last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  