-- 
Olympus Paid $687 Million Gyrus Fee, Double Amount Kikukawa Said Yesterday

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-10-19T10:03:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/olympus-says-fees-paid-over-gyrus-purchase-were-appropriate-.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  said it paid $687
million to advisers for its acquisition of Gyrus Group Plc,
almost double the 30 billion yen ($391 million) in fees Olympus
Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa revealed yesterday.  The money paid between 2006 and 2010 in the purchase of
Gyrus include a $443 million buyback of preferred shares, the
company said in a statement today. Kikukawa told the Nikkei
newspaper yesterday the fee amount was about 30 billion yen.  Olympus issued the statement in response to media reports
on a PricewaterhouseCoopers investigation commissioned by former
President Michael C. Woodford, who was fired last week after
questioning the size of the payment for the $2 billion purchase
of Gyrus in letters to the chairman. The PwC report said the
Tokyo-based company may face regulatory and legal scrutiny
because of the payments. Olympus said the report included
“assumptions” and “speculation” and is misleading, according
to the statement.  “Investors expected that management would deny everything
but in fact the chairman started to admit things,”  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku Capital Management Inc., said in a
phone interview. “They admitted the payment even though several
years ago they didn’t disclose it. It makes you wonder if
there’s more out there.”  Letter  Woodford sent a copy of a letter to Bloomberg News today
that he said he received from Executive Vice President Hisashi Mori on Oct. 6. The letter was accompanied by documents showing
$687 million had been paid to two advisers during the purchase
of Gyrus.  “It is extraordinary Mr. Kikukawa is acting in this manner
and it disturbs me greatly,” said Woodford in reference to the
Olympus chairman’s comment to Nikkei yesterday.  Olympus today declined to comment on whether Mori or other
board members responded to Woodford’s letters.  “We disclosed the payments today not because we recently
found them, but because there have been reports that can cause
misunderstandings and we acknowledged the need to disclose more
information to investors,” Yoshiaki Yamada, a Tokyo-based
spokesman for Olympus, said.  “Our understanding of the advisory fee is that it doesn’t
include the capital gain portion on the preferred shares,” he
said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in a report today suspended its
ratings on the company saying the “adequacy” of the company’s
accounting practices regarding past acquisitions has become
unclear. JP Morgan Securities LLC and Cosmo Securities Co. also
suspended their ratings on the company. Citigroup Global Markets
 Japan  is reviewing its coverage of the company.  The shares fell 2 percent to 1,389 yen as of the 3 p.m.
close of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange today. The stock
has tumbled 44 percent since Woodford was fired.  $3.9 Billion Slump  Shareholders including Nippon Life Insurance Co. have seen
more than $3.9 billion in the market value of their investment
wiped out since the board fired Woodford, saying he “wouldn’t
listen” to Kikukawa.  The scandal deepened after Woodford handed documents
relating to the fees including the PwC report to the U.K.’s
Serious Fraud Office two days ago. He requested an investigation
because the payments were made in the U.K.  Tokyo-based company Olympus may sue Woodford for leaking
internal information to the press, Mori said in a conference
call with investors and analysts Oct. 17, according to a
research note by a Tokyo-based unit of Morgan Stanley.  A U.K. fraud investigation is “unlikely” to trigger a
move by the Tokyo Stock Exchange to put Olympus on a watch list,
according to Kazuyuki Miyaji, a division manager in the
exchange’s disclosure division. That decision would hinge on the
company’s own version of events and the results of an
investigation by the exchange, he said in a phone interview.  Watch List  “Only when the Tokyo Stock Exchange judges that there is a
misrepresentation on their securities report and the
misrepresentation is critical enough to affect investors’
decision-making, then we determine to put a company on a watch
list,” he said.  Japan’s Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission,
the nation’s watchdog, declined to comment on individual
companies, when contacted on Oct. 17, according to an official.  Potential offenses by Olympus include false accounting and
breaches of duties by the board, according to the Oct. 11 report
by PwC that Woodford provided to Bloomberg News. Most of the
payments were made through Olympus’s U.K. unit, Woodford said in
an interview.  One of the advisers receiving the fees, Cayman Islands-
incorporated AXAM Investments Ltd., was removed from the local
registry in 2010, according to an official filing. PwC said they
were unable to identify the owners of AXAM Investments.  Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Securities Co. cut their stock
ratings on Olympus the day Woodford was fired, amid concerns
about the company’s corporate governance and costs.  “The course of events has not been positive,” David Herro, Chief Investment Officer at Harris Associates LP, an
Olympus shareholder, said in an e-mail. “We hope to speak with
the chairman shortly.”  Olympus’s Mori said the PwC report “is based on
speculation,” when asked about it in a telephone interview on
Oct. 16.  “People have a lot of uneasiness about the Olympus
story,” Fukoku Capital’s Sakurai said. “People are starting to
think that the former president is telling the truth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  