-- 
Home Short Sales Rise in ‘Dramatic Shift’

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-10-18T15:09:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/home-short-sales-rise-in-dramatic-shift-that-may-boost-u-s-house-prices.html
U.S. home prices may get a boost
from an unlikely source: a pickup in sales of properties in
default before they reach the stage where they are repossessed
by the bank and sold.  There has been a “dramatic shift” in banks’ willingness
to sell a property for less than the mortgage balance to avoid
foreclosing, said Ron Peltier, chairman and chief executive
officer of HomeServices of America Inc., the second-biggest U.S.
residential brokerage.  The transactions, known as short sales, typically change
hands at a discount of about 20 percent to homes not in
financial distress, compared with a 40 percent price cut for
bank-owned homes, according to RealtyTrac Inc. Short sales
jumped 19 percent in the second quarter from the prior three
months while foreclosure sales were flat, the data seller said.  “Banks have become much more supportive of short sales,”
said Peltier, whose Minneapolis-based company is a unit of
Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. “That’s better for the
lenders, who have smaller losses on a short sale, and it’s going
to be better for homeowners, who won’t have as much
psychological distress as a foreclosure.”  Distressed sales brokered by HomeServices used to be 60
percent foreclosures and 40 percent short sales, Peltier said in
an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . Now, that
ratio has flipped, according to the CEO, whose company is second
in size to NRT LLC, a unit of Realogy Corp. in Parsippany,  New
Jersey , that has about 700 offices under the Coldwell Banker
brand.  Default Backlog  “There’s a huge backlog of homes in default that the banks
want to get rid of,” said Thomas Popik, research director for
Campbell Surveys in  Washington . “They don’t want to be
homeowners.”  Banks are being more agreeable to short sales as
foreclosures slow following a yearlong probe of so-called robo-
signing, or pushing through unverified default documents.
Foreclosure filings have fallen for 12 straight months through
September as banks work through a backlog of paperwork,
RealtyTrac data show. About 6.4 million loans are either
delinquent or in default, according to Lender Processing
Services Inc., a mortgage software firm in Jacksonville,
 Florida .  Third of Transactions  Almost a third of all home transactions in August were
foreclosures or short sales, according to the National
Association of Realtors. While short sales were flat compared
with a year earlier, the trade group’s count only includes deals
completed with a broker, and short sales often are handled
directly with lenders.  Banks are not only approving more short sales, they’re
doing it in less time. In the second quarter, short-sale homes,
also known as pre-foreclosures, sold an average 245 days after
default, down from 256 days in the previous period, according to
 Irvine , California-based RealtyTrac. That reversed three
straight quarters of increases.  The time frame remains a lot longer than traditional sales.
In a normal transaction, a buyer bids on a home and gets a
decision from its owners within days, if not hours. Getting a
bank response to a short-sale offer can take two months or more.  “No matter how streamlined a short sale may be, it’s
always going to be a frustrating experience,” Popik said. “Too
many people are involved -- investors, servicers, owners, real
estate brokers,  mortgage insurance  companies.”  Second Liens  Half of troubled mortgages have so-called second liens,
such as home equity lines of credit, according to the Treasury
Department, so there may be two mortgage holders with a stake in
a short sale. If the property has mortgage insurance, that
company may be involved in the negotiations as well.  Because short sales typically are occupied soon after the
deal, neighboring properties take less of a hit in values,
according to Popik. Prices for distressed homes often are used
by appraisers to gauge surrounding values, even if the nearby
homes aren’t in default. Also, owners who voluntarily give up
their homes tend to leave them in better shape than people who
are evicted, reducing costs for banks, he said.  “Anytime a short sale can be substituted for a
foreclosure, it’s going to prop up prices and it’s going to cut
losses because it’s going to sell for more,” he said.  Worse Than Depression  Home values have declined 31 percent in the last five
years, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of values in 20
U.S. cities, as competition from foreclosures pressures sellers
to lower their asking prices. The resulting crash was worse than
the 27 percent plunge in values during the Depression, said  Stan Humphries , chief economist of Zillow Inc., a Seattle-based real
estate information company.  The drop in home values has pushed almost a quarter of U.S.
mortgage borrowers underwater, meaning their debt is more than
their homes are worth, according to a report by  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX) ,
a real estate data company in  Santa Ana , California. That so-
called negative equity prevents owners from conducting
traditional deals because they would have to pay the difference
between their loan balance and the sale price.  Short-sellers can negotiate with banks to forgive the
unpaid portion, according to Steve Beede, an attorney in Fair
Oaks, California, who specializes in dealing with loans in
default. Even if they succeed, a second-lien holder in most
states can pursue people for mortgage-payoff shortfalls, he
said.  Banks are starting to “get their act together” with short
sales, said Cameron Novak, a broker with The Homefinding Center
in Corona,  California . The company handles about 15 of the
transactions a month, he said.  “There’s been improvement in the last few months, and
response times are getting to be a little quicker,” Cameron
said in a telephone interview. “It’s about time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Chicago  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 