-- 
Homebuilders Rise Most in Two Years as Sentiment Index Unexpectedly Climbs

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-10-18T20:51:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/homebuilders-rise-most-in-two-years-after-sentiment-index-climbs.html
U.S. homebuilders rose the most in
two years after an index of developer sentiment unexpectedly
increased to its highest level since May 2010, spurring optimism
that demand for new houses may be improving.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index
climbed 9.6 percent at the close of New York trading, the
biggest increase since March 2009.  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH)  and  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S. luxury-home builder, rose the
most among the gauge’s 12 members, each gaining 13 percent.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment index climbed to 18 in October from 14 the previous
month, data from the Washington-based group showed today.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected the measure
would rise to 15, the median forecast of 47 economists. Readings
below 50 mean more respondents said conditions were poor.  Homebuilder shares “started to rally off of the better
sentiment number, then continued to rally from there,” Megan McGrath, an analyst with MKM Partners LP in Stamford,
Connecticut, said in an e-mail. “It’s also possible investors
are setting up for earnings season and other homebuilder data to
come later this week, which now people think may not be as bad
as feared.”  Competing With Foreclosures  Builders have struggled as the  unemployment rate  stands at
9.1 percent, discouraging buyers from making purchases, and new
houses compete with foreclosed properties that tend to sell at a
discount. A total of 610,337 homes received notices of default,
auction or repossession in the third quarter, up from 608,235 in
the previous three months, according to RealtyTrac Inc.  The homebuilder sentiment index has “shown several head
fakes” by rising without gaining momentum, said Adam Rudiger,
an analyst with  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in  San Francisco .  “One month of improvement is not enough to convince us
that demand has meaningfully improved,” he wrote in a note to
investors today. “But we believe this month’s improvement is
noteworthy and increases the importance of November’s release.”  The Commerce Department reports September housing starts
tomorrow. They are expected to rise to an annual pace of 590,000
from 571,000 in August, according to the median estimate of 74
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Weigh Heavily’  “We have seen demand for home purchases slowly return to
the marketplace, driven by low home prices and all-time low
 interest rates ,” Miami-based builder  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  said in an
Oct. 11 regulatory filing. “However, demand has been limited by
tight and tightening credit standards, high unemployment and low
overall consumer confidence, which continue to weigh heavily on
the purchase of new homes.”  New U.S. homes sold at an annual pace of 295,000 in August,
the slowest since February, the Commerce Department reported
Sept. 26.  Home starts rose last month from a year earlier in such
markets such as Atlanta, Las Vegas,  Los Angeles  and South
 Florida , said  Brad Hunter , chief economist for Metrostudy, which
tracks construction in about 80 metropolitan areas. Starts of
single-family homes probably will rise 5 percent to 442,000 next
year, according to the Houston-based company.  “In most markets, we’re seeing increases,” Hunter said in
a telephone interview from his office in Palm Beach Gardens,
Florida. “Barring a second recession, I think we’re past the
bottom.”  The S&P homebuilder measure is down 20 percent this year,
compared with a 3 percent decline for the  S&P 500 index. (SPX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  