-- 
Rise in Homebuilder Sentiment Tops Forecast

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-18T14:54:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/homebuilder-sentiment-increases-more-than-forecast-on-lower-mortgage-costs.html
Homebuilders in the U.S. were less
pessimistic than forecast in October as near record-low
borrowing costs and price decreases raised hopes the market will
turn for the better over the next six months.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment index climbed to 18, the highest level since May 2010,
from 14 in the prior month, data from the Washington-based group
showed today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected
the measure would rise to 15, according to the median forecast.
Readings below 50 mean more respondents said conditions were
poor.  The  Federal Reserve ’s unconventional measures to boost
demand and spur job growth combined with concern over the
European debt crises have helped reduce  mortgage rates , making
buying more affordable. At the same time, the prospect more
foreclosures will enter the market and unemployment hovering
above 9 percent mean it will take a long time for any recovery
to develop.  “The first point to remember is that it’s still
exceptionally low,” said  Eric Green , chief market economist at
TD Securities Inc. in  New York , who projected the index would
rise to 16, the highest estimate in the Bloomberg survey. “When
you have record-low mortgage rates and a massive decline in
prices, then this provides a good foundation for a recovery. You
are beginning to see some slight turn.” Nonetheless, he said,
“we continue to have an enormous inventory overhang that has to
be worked off.”  Shares Climb  Builder shares climbed after the report, erasing earlier
losses. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index
jumped 5.1 percent to 201.62 at 10:52 a.m. in New York. The  S&P
500 Index  rose 0.5 percent as Bank of America Corp. swung to
third-quarter profit, offsetting disappointing results at
International Business Machines Corp.  Another report today showed wholesale prices rose more than
forecast in September, boosted by gasoline, food and trucks. The
 producer price index  climbed 0.8 percent, the most in five
months, after no change in August, according to figures from the
Labor Department.  Estimates for the builder confidence index in the Bloomberg
survey of the 47 economists ranged from 14 to 16.  Record Low  The gauge, which was first published in January 1985,
reached a record low of 8 in January 2009 and averaged 54 in the
five years before the recession began in December 2007.  The four-point gain this month was the biggest since April
2010, when buyers rushed to qualify for a government tax credit
that would expire that June.  “Some pockets of recovery are starting to emerge across
the country as extremely favorable  interest rates  and prices
catch consumers’ attention,”  David Crowe , the builders group’s
chief economist, said in a statement. Nonetheless, he said,
“builders are facing downward pricing pressures from foreclosed
homes at the same time building materials costs are rising, and
this is further squeezing already tight margins.”  The builders group’s index of current single-family home
sales climbed to 18 in October from 14, the report showed. A
measure of sales expectations for the next six months jumped to
24 from 17 in September. The gauge of buyer traffic increased to
14 from 11.  Regional Breakdown  Builders in three of the four regions saw a gain in
confidence this month, led by a nine-point surge in the West
that took that region’s index to the highest level since August
2007. The Northeast was little changed.  Builders probably began work on more homes in September
even as permits may have fallen. Housing starts rose 3.3 percent
to a 590,000 pace, economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the
Commerce Department will report tomorrow. Permits, a sign of
future construction, fell 2.4 percent to a 610,000 pace.  Home
construction  totaled 554,000 units in 2009, the lowest since
record-keeping began in 1959.  Housing prices keep falling even in the face of near-record
low lending rates. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values
in 20 cities fell 4.1 percent from July 2010, the group said
Sept. 27. Prices are 31 percent below their peak in July 2006.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan dropped to 4.01
percent, the lowest in records dating back to 1971, in the week
ended September 29, according to  Freddie Mac .  Improving Demand  Scottsdale, Arizona-based  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH) , which
builds energy-efficient single-family homes, saw its sales in
the quarter ended in September rise from a year earlier even as
demand remains at “depressed levels,” executive vice president
Brent Anderson said on an Oct. 12 conference call.  “We need to have more people in jobs, good, well-paying,
full-time jobs,” he said. “It’s really a matter of
confidence.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 that the central
bank was ready to take further steps to boost an economy that he
said was “close to faltering.” Speaking before Congress’s
Joint Economic Committee, Bernanke said home construction was
not aiding the expansion, unlike in prior recoveries.  “The recovery from the crisis has been much less robust
than we had hoped,” Bernanke said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 