-- 
Hong Kong’s Unemployment Rate Stays at 13-Year Low of 3.2%

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-10-18T08:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/hong-kong-s-unemployment-rate-stays-at-13-year-low-of-3-2-1-.html
Hong Kong ’s unemployment rate stayed
at the lowest level in 13 years, bolstering the city’s growth
and helping it avoid a recession.  The rate for the three months ended September was 3.2
percent, unchanged from the period through August, the
government said on its website today. That was less than the
median 3.3 percent estimate of 12 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  An influx of mainland Chinese tourists into the city and
rising wages boosted local consumption, helping the economy
counter slower global expansion. Financial Secretary  John Tsang 
said Oct. 16 the prospect of weaker growth in the U.S. and the
European debt crisis, which has led to sell-offs in global stock
markets, have already hurt Hong Kong’s economy via weaker
exports demand.  “Underpinned by strong domestic and Chinese demand, Hong
Kong’s job market continues to hire, defying turbulence in
global financial markets,” Donna Kwok, an economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said before today’s report. “The effects of
weakening Western demand will likely start cooling local hiring
activities soon.”  Median monthly  household income  rose about 9 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, according to the government,
after Hong Kong introduced the minimum wage of HK$28 ($3.6) per
hour in May.  There are risks of a recession, Chief Executive Donald Tsang said last week, citing uncertainties from  Europe  and the
U.S. Morgan Stanley and Daiwa Capital Markets say the city’s
gross domestic product will contract again in the third quarter
on slowing export growth, after the economy shrank 0.5 percent
during April through June from the previous period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  