-- 
More Facebook Friends Means More Gray Matter in Brain, U.K. Study Finds

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-10-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/more-facebook-friends-means-bigger-brain-areas-u-k-study-finds.html
People who have more  Facebook 
friends have more gray matter in their brains, a finding that
may spur further research on the relationship between social
networking and the mind, U.K. researchers said.  A strong correlation was found between the number of
Facebook connections and the amount of gray matter, or brain
tissue responsible for processing signals, according to research
led by Geraint Rees, a senior clinical research fellow at
 University College London . The results, based on magnetic
resonance imaging of 125 college students’ brains, was published
today in the journal  Proceedings of the Royal Society B .  While more gray matter in some areas of the brain can imply
greater competence in some skills, greater mass in other regions
may mean an individual is more easily distracted, Rees said.
 Similar research  conducted at  Boston ’s Northeastern University
found that the size of the amygdala, which processes memory and
emotional responses, is related to the size and complexity of
social networks in adults.  “We don’t yet know whether more is good or not,” Rees
told reporters in a telephone conference call. “What we do know
is these changes in gray matter can be seen in a lot of
situations.”  Facebook Inc. operates the world’s biggest social-
networking website, with more than 800 million users. The
study’s sample consisted of college students whose networks of
Facebook friends ranged from the single digits to about 1,000,
Rees said. The average number of friends was about 300, with a
majority of participants having fewer than 300 in their network.
The findings were also replicated in a group of 40 additional
participants, he said.  Social Connections  Further research is necessary to understand the
relationship between the amount of gray matter and the number of
social connections a person has, Rees said. It’s unclear from
the data published today whether having more Facebook friends
makes the regions of the brain larger or whether some people
have an innate ability to have more friends, the researchers
said.  The study was funded by the  Wellcome Trust , a medical
research charity based in  London .  -- Editors: Kristen Hallam, Marthe Fourcade  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  