-- 
Los Angeles, Wooed by Occupy Protest, Faces Higher Debt Cost

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-10-19T00:56:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/los-angeles-faces-higher-debt-costs-under-occupy-protest-s-plan.html
Los Angeles  faces tens of millions
of dollars in additional borrowing costs after the City Council
told anti- Wall Street  protesters it intends to cut ties with
banks involved in financial wrongdoing, Administrative Officer
Miguel Santana said.  The city may have to pay $27.8 million in termination fees
and replacement costs if it’s prohibited from doing business
with banks providing letters of credit for just one
infrastructure program, Santana said yesterday in a memo to
Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa. Debt service would climb $14.9
million a year if it has to refinance commercial paper into
long-term debt at higher rates, Santana said.  Council members in the nation’s second-largest city by
population passed a  resolution  Oct. 12 in support of the
demonstrations that started as Occupy Wall Street in  New York .
They promised to accelerate the issuance of “report cards”
rating banks on such things as foreclosures and charitable
giving. The vote followed three hours of public comment, much of
it by participants in Occupy Los Angeles who’ve camped in front
of  City Hall  since Oct. 1.  “The financial repercussions will be immense” if his
office is prohibited from doing business with many of its
current lenders, Santana said in the report.  Council member Richard Alarcon, who sponsored the
resolution, said the city manager’s reaction showed Occupy Los
Angeles is having an effect.  ‘Front and Center’  “Many of the banks we’re targeting have pleaded guilty to
fraud,” Alarcon said. “There are an ample number of other
institutions that acted legally who can do these transactions.
The Occupy L.A. movement has put this issue front and center.”  Santana said implementation of the report-card program has
been delayed as city employees wrestle with questions such as
how to compare institutions as diverse as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, and De la Rosa & Co., a
Los Angeles-based investment bank focused on municipal-bond
underwriting.  Los Angeles in 2008 sued more than 30 institutions it
accused of engaging in abuse related to financial derivatives
and bid-rigging, Santana said. Two of the three letter-of-credit
providers for the Municipal Improvement Corporation of Los
Angeles Commercial Paper Program are defendants in the lawsuit,
according to Santana. They are  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank by assets, and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Dana Obrist, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, didn’t
respond to telephone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  Banks Listed  The council on Oct. 11 approved a list of banks and
underwriters that the city may use for lending. It struck down a
portion of the  resolution  that would have allowed Santana’s
office to hire the institutions without council approval,
however.  The council’s decisions on which banks to use may affect
finances at other city departments, including its harbor,
airports and municipal utility, Santana said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  