-- 
Most Accurate China Forecaster Sees No Sudden Ease as Growth Cools to 9.1%

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-19T03:06:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/most-accurate-china-analyst-sees-no-sudden-ease-as-growth-cools.html
China, facing a hit to exports from
 Europe ’s debt crisis, may refrain from cutting  interest rates 
this year as inflation stays above target and domestic spending
supports growth in the engine of the global recovery.  Industrial output and retail sales rose at a faster pace in
September even as the economic expansion cooled to 9.1 percent
in the third quarter, a report released in Beijing yesterday
showed. Consumer prices climbed 6.1 percent, exceeding a 4
percent target, a release showed last week.  “The latest data won’t trigger any sudden change in
monetary or fiscal policy, but looking ahead the overall
direction is likely to be easing,” said Yao Wei, the only one
of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey to correctly 
predict the GDP number. “Consumption has held up quite well,” 
said Yao, a Hong Kong-based economist for Societe Generale SA.  Economists predict targeted measures to support growth as
Europe’s crisis clouds the outlook for exports and small
companies in China complain of a funding squeeze. The central
bank will keep rates on hold for the rest of the year, while
“selective easing” may include ensuring funding for small and
medium-sized companies and a government housing program,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said.  The Shanghai Composite Index was up 0.3 percent as of 11:02
a.m. local time. The measure has fallen about 15 percent this
year on concern that tightening measures will trigger a
slowdown. The yuan was little changed at 6.3798 per dollar.  Xia Bin’s View  Central bank adviser Xia Bin said in an interview in
Beijing today that the nation’s growth is “sound” and he doesn’t
believe that the government needs to implement “major” stimulus
measures.  The gain in gross domestic product reported by the
statistics bureau was lower than the median 9.3 percent forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey. It was also the third straight
deceleration and the smallest increase in two years.  A halving of growth in shipments to the European Union in
September underscored the threat that weaker demand poses for
the world’s biggest exporting nation. Exports were the
equivalent of 27 percent of gross domestic product in 2010.  The outlook for trade this quarter and in the first three
months of next year is “grim,” Shen Danyang, a spokesman for
 China ’s Ministry of Commerce, said at a briefing in Beijing
today.  Five interest-rate increases since mid-October last year,
elevated reserve requirements for banks and curbs on investment
in housing have also cooled the economy.  Lending Risks  Investors are concerned about bad-debt risks for banks and
the ability of local governments to repay money borrowed for
infrastructure projects. China Business News reported yesterday
that rail projects have been halted due to cash shortages and
the People’s Daily reported that some road building has stalled
for the same reason.  “Fiscal tweaks and targeted support for SMEs should help
China avoid a hard landing, making an across-board easing in
monetary policy unlikely in the immediate future,” said  Qu
Hongbin , a Hong Kong-based economist with  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  The
“strength of domestic demand” will help to sustain the
expansion even as weakness in overseas markets takes a “bite”
out of exports, Qu said.  Asian Response  Across  Asia , governments have been shielding their
economies, with  Indonesia  cutting interest rates, the
 Philippines  announcing a stimulus package and  Singapore  easing
monetary policy by slowing currency gains. Weighing against a
loosening of monetary policy in China is the 13 percent jump in
food prices in September that highlighted that the nation has
yet to tame inflation.  China’s retail sales rose 17.7 percent in September,
topping the 17 percent pace that was economists’ median estimate
and also the reported level in August. Signs that Chinese
shoppers are not letting up include  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389) , the
retail partner of  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , reporting a jump in sales
during this month’s Golden Week public holiday.  Gains in consumption help shift China away from dependence
on exports and investment, a move sought by the Chinese
government and members of the Group of 20 nations aiming to
rebalance the world economy for more stable growth.  Industrial output grew 13.8 percent in September,
yesterday’s data showed, higher than a median estimate of 13.4
percent and August’s 13.5 percent increase.  Investment Growth  Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households climbed
24.9 percent in the first nine months, the statistics bureau
report said. That compared with the 24.8 percent median estimate
and a 25 percent gain through August.  The People’s Bank of China has paused in raising interest
rates since a July increase that took benchmark one-year
borrowing costs to 6.56 percent and deposit rates to 3.5
percent. The last publicly announced increased in bank reserve
requirements, in June, took the level for the biggest lenders to
a record 21.5 percent.  UBS AG said yesterday that there will be “no major policy
easing until early 2012, but liquidity conditions may be fine-
tuned and eased selectively.” Reserve requirements may also be
cut if inflows of foreign-exchange are limited, said  Wang Tao , a
Hong Kong-based economist for the bank.  ‘Small Stimulus’  According to UBS, China may use a “small stimulus,”
equivalent to about 2 percent of gross domestic product, to spur
growth, with that easing of fiscal and credit policy coming at
the government’s December economic work conference or, more
likely, at the start of next year. Based on last year’s total
for gross domestic product, that would mean measures amounting
to about 800 billion yuan ($125 billion).  Signs the government is prepared to offer support to some
areas of the economy emerged last week when the State Council
unveiled tax breaks and financial support for small businesses
after complaints of a credit squeeze and increased reliance on
so-called underground lenders.  Any “outright easing of monetary policy will have to wait
until inflation expectations stabilize and external demand falls
sharply,” said Liu Li-Gang, an economist at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Hong Kong . He said that “partial
easing” could include reducing reserve requirements for small
and medium-sized banks.  China’s economy  grew 2.3 percent in the third quarter  from
the previous three months, seasonally adjusted, the statistics
bureau said yesterday. That compared with a revised 2.4 percent
gain for the second quarter.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  