-- 
Motorola Mobility Revives Razr to Challenge Apple’s IPhone

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-10-18T20:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/motorola-mobility-revives-razr-brand-to-challenge-apple-s-iphone.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., the
mobile-phone maker that’s being bought by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , is
reviving its iconic Razr handset to take on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  The new version of the Razr has a 4.3-inch touch screen and
is 7.1 millimeters (a quarter-inch) thick, Motorola Mobility CEO
Sanjay Jha said today at a press conference in New York. Verizon
Wireless will sell the device for $299.99 in the U.S. with a
two-year agreement, starting next month. It will also be
available in  Asia ,  Europe ,  Latin America  and  Africa .  Motorola Mobility is bringing back the Razr years after the
slim flip phone lost its spot as the top-selling U.S. handset to
devices with better Web-browsing, e-mail and video capabilities.
The company is now banking on the brand to challenge Apple,
which dominates the U.S. smartphone market and this weekend sold
more than 4 million iPhone 4S devices in the first three days.  Motorola Mobility “probably thought there was more brand
power left in the Razr name,” said Peter Rojas of Gdgt, a
product-review and question-and-answer site.  Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , rose
0.3 percent to $38.92 at the close in New York. Google, based in
Mountain View,  California , added 1.4 percent to $590.51.  Gingerbread  The Razr runs on Google’s Android Gingerbread operating
system and is upgradeable to the next version of the program,
called Ice Cream Sandwich. The phone is about half as thick as
HTC Corp.’s ThunderBolt, a rival product, said Jennifer Fritzsche, a Chicago-based analyst with Wells Fargo & Co.  “The phone is a typical high-end smartphone with all of
the high-end hardware and features except for the form factor,”
Fritzsche said in a note to investors.  The phone may lure customers away from Motorola’s Droid
Bionic, which Verizon introduced last month and which has almost
all the same hardware features, New York-based Rojas said.  “Obviously there are some differences, but I can’t imagine
why anyone would buy the Bionic now,” he said.  The original Razr, introduced in 2004, sold more than 100
million units and helped Motorola gain market share from rivals
such as  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)  Motorola struggled to repeat the success of
the device with its later products, resulting in falling sales
and an eventual breakup of the company in two.  In August, Google, the biggest maker of smartphone
software, agreed to buy Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion in
its largest acquisition, gaining mobile patents and expanding in
the hardware business. Google’s Android also runs phones made by
companies including HTC and Samsung Electronics Co.  Motorola Mobility also introduced a fitness device that
doubles as a music player and takes calls. Motoactv tracks heart
rate and calories burned and allows the user to upload workout
results and share them with friends, Jha said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  