-- 
Louis Dreyfus Said to Weigh IPO in Brazil, Selling Stake to Sovereign Fund

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 
2011-10-18T13:15:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/louis-dreyfus-said-to-weigh-ipo-in-brazil-selling-stake-to-sovereign-fund.html
Louis Dreyfus Holding BV is
exploring options that may include holding an initial public
offering or selling a stake to a sovereign wealth fund, said two
people with knowledge of the process.  Louis Dreyfus is working with  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  on its
review, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the process was private. The Amsterdam-based company is also
working with JPMorgan Chase & Co. to advise on options for its
Brazilian renewable-energy business.  The holding company, owner of the world’s biggest rice and
cotton trader, has no plan to sell itself, the people said.
Founded in 1851, Louis Dreyfus reported more than 56 billion
euros ($77 billion) in revenue last year and 590 million euros
in net income. Its commodities unit handles items including
grains, cotton, coffee and ethanol, according to its  website .  Chairman Margarita Louis-Dreyfus controls 61 percent of the
holding company through a Liechtenstein-based trust, one of the
people said. The company has in the past held talks with
Glencore International Plc, the world’s largest publicly traded
commodities supplier, people familiar with those discussions
have said. The company has also negotiated with Olam
International Ltd.  Spokeswomen for JPMorgan Chase and Credit Suisse declined
to comment. The Financial Times reported earlier that Louis
Dreyfus hired Credit Suisse.  Brazilian Unit  Minority shareholders own about one-third of the operations
of the  Brazil  unit, which is known as LDC-SEV and valued at
about $3 billion, the people said.  LDC-SEV , the unit that JPMorgan is helping the company
review, produces bioethanol from processing sugar cane. It was
created two years ago through the merger of a Louis Dreyfus unit
with Santelisa Vale SA.  The companies said at the time of their merger that they
would consider an  IPO  for the venture in the near future. Louis
Dreyfus Commodities expanded in Brazil in the 1940s with
operations in products such as soybeans, sugar, rice, corn,
cotton and coffee, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  