-- 
Moynihan Says Bank of America Debit-Card Fee to ‘Bring More Relationships’

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-10-18T18:15:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/moynihan-says-bofa-debit-card-fee-to-bring-more-relationships-.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief
Executive Officer Brian T. Moynihan said the company’s new $5
monthly fee for debit cards may attract business by encouraging
customers to use more services so they can avoid the charge.  “The fees are to get people to bring more relationships,”
Moynihan said today in a conference call with analysts. “So
we’re comfortable that we’ll end up in a good dynamic there.”  Moynihan unveiled the fee last month, saying it wouldn’t
apply to clients with at least $20,000 in their accounts, a Bank
of America mortgage or accounts linked to the Merrill Lynch
brokerage. The CEO was asked today by Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG, about possible customer defections
from the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank tied to the fee.  The charge targets customers who use the firm’s automated
teller machines and online banking “and yet have their
relationship elsewhere” with other types of services, Moynihan,
52, said. “That is tough for us to afford to provide, and we
need to provide it all to our customers to be competitive.”  Banks are seeking to recover revenue lost under U.S.
legislation that reduces fees paid by retailers on debit-card
transactions. San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is testing a
$3 monthly fee, and similar charges have been imposed by  Regions
Financial Corp. (RF)  and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)   Bank of America’s strategy “is to build broader and deeper
relationships with our customers, and prices and fees are based
on the totality of the relationship,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a
spokesman for the lender. “We think there is a tremendous value
in doing more business with us because we can bring significant
economies of scale to the customer relationship.”  Moynihan’s firm is the second-largest U.S. lender by
assets, and has about 18,000 automated teller machines in the
country and almost 6,000 branches.  Bank of America today posted third-quarter net income of
$6.23 billion on higher revenue, better credit quality and one-
time gains. That compares with a loss of $7.3 billion a year
earlier fueled by a writedown at its card division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  