-- 
70,000 Greeks Protest Cuts, Clash With Police

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-10-19T15:22:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/papandreou-presses-austerity-as-strikes-hold-greece-hostage-.html
Greek protesters clashed with police
in central  Athens  after Prime Minister  George Papandreou  vowed
to push through a further round of austerity and appealed to
Europe to cut Greece’s debt load at an Oct. 23 summit.  Riot police in white helmets used tear gas to hold back
demonstrators from the parliament building in the Greek capital
today as lawmakers debated the extra austerity measures demanded
by Greece’s international creditors to keep aid flowing. Police
said about 70,000 people gathered in Athens at the start of a
48-hour strike in one of the biggest protests yet against
Papandreou’s latest program of cost-cutting and tax rises.  “Without the measures, the 2011 budget won’t be met,
neither will the budget in 2012,” Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told lawmakers in comments broadcast live, as groups
of hooded protesters in gas masks lobbed Molotov cocktails at
the riot police outside. “We are giving the battle of battles
up to Sunday evening.”  With a four-seat parliament majority, Papandreou is banking
on his Pasok party lawmakers to face down public anger and pass
the bill in a  vote  due tomorrow, when the unions have called
more protests. A test of support for the bill will be held in
parliament later today. The package, which follows a round of
austerity measures passed in June, includes new taxes, more cuts
to pensions and wages and plans to dismiss 30,000 state workers.  Unknown Soldier’s Tomb  The reverberations of tear-gas rounds echoed across the
city’s central Syntagma Square as police maintained a protective
cordon around the parliament. Some protesters broke through to
the tomb of the unknown soldier in front of the assembly, a
monument more usually patrolled by Greek military in traditional
uniform. Most of the demonstrators stuck to the square, chanting
slogans and brandishing labor-union banners or Greek flags.  “This policy has no future, and those who express this
policy have no future,” Yiannis Panagopoulos, the head of GSEE,
 Greece ’s biggest private-sector union, said in a statement.
“Those who are voting through these measures need to think
again, and again, what they’re about to do, against a people
undergoing conditions of social barbarity.”  In Greece’s second city of Thessaloniki, protesters smashed
the facades of about 10 shops that defied the strike to remain
open, as well as five banks and cash machines, the  Associated
Press  reported. Police fired tear gas and threw stun grenades,
AP said.  At one point in Athens, a fire was started in recycling
bins outside the  Finance Ministry  opposite the parliament,
sending smoke across the square. Police said 14 officers were
injured and they had reports of 3 civilians hospitalized. By
about 6 p.m. local time, the tear gas had dispersed and Syntagma
Square was quiet.  ‘Held Hostage’  Two years after the debt crisis came to light in Greece,
Papandreou is courting social unrest that risks boiling over as
he pushes through additional austerity. The steps, which are
needed to continue receiving outside support under a 110
billion-euro ($152 billion) bailout agreed last year, have
provoked a wave of strikes by public-sector employees who shut
down government services and buildings in protest at the bill.  “Greece is being held hostage by strikes and protests,”
Papandreou told lawmakers late yesterday as he opened the
parliamentary debate. “This government has been fighting for
two years to save the country and still has much work ahead,”
he said. “We will give battle and we will win.”  GSEE said that strike participation was 100 percent today
at refiners, shipyards, on transport, ships and at ports, and 90
percent in the  construction industry , commerce, banks, the power
company, phone company, postal service and water companies.
Municipal garbage collection workers were ordered back to work
yesterday by an executive decree to clear more than a week’s
worth of refuse piled up in the streets. Hospitals, schools and
courts were hit, shops shuttered and newspapers absent.  Targets Slipping  With Greece’s debt-reduction targets slipping as the cuts
bite, EU leaders are preparing to meet on Oct. 23 to reopen the
terms of a second bailout three months after it was sealed under
a package to stave off Greek default and end the debt crisis.  Papandreou urged the rest of Europe to end the “great
uncertainty” over efforts to stamp out the crisis. “ Europe 
hasn’t been able to halt the crisis,” he told his ruling Pasok
party lawmakers. “We have to achieve the relieving of the debt
burden which is weighing on each Greek.”  Successive rounds of tax increases and cuts to wages and
pensions have deepened a recession now in its fourth year, with
the economy set to contract 5.5 percent this year and 2.5
percent next, according to the 2012 budget. The  unemployment
rate  reached 16.5 percent in July, data released yesterday by
the Hellenic Statistical Authority showed.  Article 37  Drawing particular fire from labor unions and some members
of Papandreou’s own party is an aspect of the legislation known
as Article 37, which suspends the power of unions to impose
wages and work rules through collective labor agreements. One
Pasok deputy has said she’ll vote against the article if it
isn’t changed.  “What the country is going through now is not the ultimate
point of the crisis, it’s an agonizing attempt to avoid
experiencing the ultimate and deepest point of the crisis,”
Venizelos said. Negotiations were due to begin today ahead of an
Oct. 21 meeting of euro-area finance ministers that will start a
weekend of debt-crisis consultations, he said.  “If Greece can dramatically reduce its debt burden and
interest payments, that may well mean that it needs to implement
slightly less austerity in the near term,”  Ben May , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “It certainly won’t solve all
of Greece’s problems and it will have to continue to reduce its
deficit over time, but it might make that process a bit more
manageable and less painful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  