-- 
Paris Saint-Germain Offers Beckham TV Role in Effort to Sign Him: Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-10-18T09:57:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/paris-saint-germain-offers-beckham-tv-role-in-effort-to-sign-him-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Becks to  France ?  The Qatari owners of Paris Saint-Germain are trying to
persuade David Beckham to join the French club by offering him a
role on their television channel  Al Jazeera  Sports, the  Daily
Mail  reported.  Al Jazeera will broadcast the French Ligue 1 from next
year. Beckham’s contract with  Los Angeles Galaxy  expires at the
end of next month. The former England player has said he needs
time on the pitch because he wants to be part of the Olympic
soccer team during next year’s Games in London.  Tevez on Loan?  Carlos Tevez , the Argentina striker who has been suspended
by Manchester City after his refusal to play during a Champions
League match, may join his old club Boca Juniors on loan, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  Buenos Aires-based Boca would need special permission from
the Argentine football association to sign the player.  “We know it is difficult, but we will try,” the paper
quoted Boca vice president Jose Baraldi as saying.  Chelsea Chasing ‘New Ronaldo’  Chelsea may make a move for Argentina teenager Lucas
Ocampos, who is seen as the ‘new Cristiano Ronaldo’, the  Daily
Mail  reported.  Ocampos, 17, joined River Plate two years ago as a second
striker before switching to left wing. A 15 million pound ($24
million) offer by Italian club  Inter Milan  for the player has
been rejected, while German side Bayern Munich has also made
enquiries, the paper said.  Forest Twitter Ban  Nottingham Forest players have been banned from talking
about club-related matters on social media sites including
Twitter and Facebook, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Forest manager Steve Cotterill has introduced a fine of
1,000 pounds a word for any violations of his new rule.
Cotterill said he had the same rule when he managed Portsmouth.  Christie Wanted  Cyrus Christie, who plays for Championship side Coventry,
is wanted by Newcastle and Stoke, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Christie, 18, has made eleven appearances for Coventry’s
first team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 