-- 
Parker Hannifin Lifts 2012 Forecast Amid Equipment ‘Boom’

-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 
2011-10-18T20:59:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/parker-hannifin-boosts-forecast-as-profit-tops-estimates-1-.html
Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , a maker of
hydraulic equipment, increased its full-year forecast after
posting higher sales and profit amid a gain in North American
industrial orders.  Earnings for the fiscal year that began July 1 may be $7.25
to $7.85 a share, up from a previous projection of $6.70 to
$7.50 a share, the company said today in a statement. Profit in
the three months through September was $1.91 a share, compared
with the $1.72 average of seven net-income estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Orders companywide increased 9 percent from a year earlier,
led by gains in the North American industrial business,  Parker
Hannifin  said.  “ North America  is going to be very strong in the rest of
2011, in this quarter and the next quarter, because we still
have an equipment boom that has to be satisfied,” said  Eli Lustgarten , an analyst at Independence, Ohio-based Longbow
Securities. He has a “neutral” rating on the shares.  Manufacturing in the U.S. accelerated in September, driven
by gains in exports and production. Expanding emerging economies
such as  China  and a rebound in  Japan  following the March
earthquake and tsunami may continue to increase demand from
overseas.  Parker Hannifin, the second company in the S&P 500
Industrials Index to report earnings this quarter, makes
components for fuel and oil systems found in Ford and Harley-
Davidson engines and hydraulic parts used in trucks and hospital
beds.  Domestic Economy  Parker Hannifin rose 6.1 percent to $77.15 in New York. The
shares gained 6.5 percent in the year before today.  The Cleveland-based company’s performance “shows that
industrials might be a little more resilient this earnings
season,” Jeff Windau, a St. Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones
& Co., said in a telephone interview. He upgraded his rating to
“buy” from “hold” after the report.  Parker Hannifin’s aerospace products offer good long-term
growth opportunities, Windau said.  The company’s net income increased 20 percent to $297
million from $247.2 million, or $1.51 a share, a year earlier.
Sales at Parker Hannifin rose 14 percent to $3.23 billion,
topping estimates of $3.18 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  