-- 
State Street Says Third-Quarter Profit Rose 11%, Boosted by Cost-Cutting

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-10-18T20:59:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/peltz-target-state-street-says-third-quarter-profit-rose-11-.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , the custody bank
under pressure from activist investor  Nelson Peltz  to increase
profitability, said third-quarter earnings rose a stronger than
expected 11 percent as custody assets increased.  State Street’s shares gained 11 percent, the most since May
2009, after the Boston-based firm said net income on an
operating basis increased to $476 million, or 96 cents a share,
from $427 million, or 86 cents a shares, a year earlier.
Excluding certain items, 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
estimated average earnings of 89 cents a share.  Peltz, founder and chief executive officer of Trian Fund
Management LP in New York, called on State Street in an Oct. 16
letter to make a clearer commitment to cost-cutting, put
shareholder returns ahead of acquisitions and consider selling
its money-management unit. Joseph “Jay” Hooley, the bank’s
chief executive officer, has sought to lower costs by announcing
2,250 job cuts in the past year, about 8 percent of its
workforce and more than rivals  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  and
 Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)   “To the extent that we can return capital to shareholders
through buybacks, that’s a priority for us,” Hooley said in an
interview, declining to answer questions about Peltz’s
criticisms or recommendations. When acquisition opportunities
arise and make financial sense, the company will still
“actively pursue those,” he said.  History of Acquisitions  State Street rose $3.62 to $37.49 at 4:15 p.m. in New York,
making it the fifth biggest gainer in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. It has declined 19 percent this year compared with a 24
percent drop for the 19-member S&P index of asset managers and
custody banks.  State Street has added assets with a number of acquisitions
over the past two years, buying the securities services business
of Intesa Sanpaolo SpA last year for $1.3 billion euros ($1.8
billion). The bank completed its purchase of the Bank of
Ireland’s asset-management unit in January for 43 million euros.  Assets under custody rose 5.7 percent from a year earlier
to $15.7 trillion, helping operating basis revenue increase 12
percent to $2.41 billion. The money State Street manages for
investors decreased 4.2 percent to $1.88 trillion.  Expense growth, a central complaint in Peltz’s letter,
exceeded the increase in sales as costs climbed 13 percent to
$1.71 billion. Salaries and benefits rose 13 percent to $965
million. Compared with the second quarter, revenue fell 2.4
percent, while expenses declined 2.5 percent to $1.71 billion.  “They got expenses to drop faster than revenue,”  Marty
Mosby , an analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , said in a telephone interview. “Maybe they’ve gone
through an inflection point” on cutting costs, he said.  ‘Discount Accretion’  State Street bought back 5.8 million shares in the third
quarter and 10.7 million shares so far this year. The company
still has $225 million remaining in a share buy-back program
approved by its board in March.  Net income in the quarter rose 0.6 percent to $543 million,
or $1.10 a share, compared with $540 million, or $1.08 a share
in the third quarter of 2010.  Net income included money earned from the sale or maturing
of bonds whose value was written down in May 2009, which the
company records as “discount accretion” within net interest
income. Discount accretion in the third quarter was $46 million,
or 6 cents a share.  Net income also included a tax benefit of $91 million, or
18 cents a share, related to a restructuring of non-U.S. conduit
assets and was reduced by $85 million, or 10 cents a share, by
acquisition and restructuring costs.  ‘Expensive’ Acquisitions  State Street, the second-biggest independent custody bank,
has struggled along with peers to increase profit amid volatile
equity markets and record low interest rates, which reduce the
returns they earn on investments and on the lending of cash and
securities to institutional investors.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has held its benchmark lending
rate at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 in an attempt
to stimulate lending and economic growth.  Peltz, a billionaire whose firm owns 3.3 percent of State
Street shares, criticized the bank for allowing costs to grow
faster than sales, for making “very expensive” acquisitions
and for reporting “recurring ‘non-recurring’ charges” that,
according to the letter, accounted for 30 percent of pretax
earnings each year since 2007.  “While we agree with some of the detail of Trian Partners’
assessments and action plans, we continue to think State Street
management is handicapped by the current backdrop,” Brian Bedell, an analyst with ISI Group Inc. in  New York , said in a
research note published yesterday.  Bank of Ireland  State Street said in a statement that it had “engaged in
constructive discussions” with Trian over the past year.  State Street acquired the Bank of Ireland’s asset-
management unit in January, helping to lessen the impact of
falling equity markets. The MSCI AC World Index has declined 11
percent since the start of the year, reducing fees collected by
custody banks on assets they safeguard and on investments they
manage.  State Street and BNY Mellon, the largest custodian of
financial assets, face a number of lawsuits from state attorneys
general accusing them of fraudulently mispricing some foreign-
exchange transactions performed for public pension funds. New
York’s attorney general and the U.S. Attorney’s Office in
 Manhattan  both filed civil suits against BNY Mellon on Oct. 4.  Legg Mason  Peltz takes stakes in companies and then frequently pushes
for changes designed to boost their share prices. Best known for
investments in consumer-oriented companies such as Kraft Foods
Inc., ketchup maker H.J. Heinz Co. and luxury retailer Tiffany &
Co., Peltz made a foray into financial services by joining Legg
Mason Inc.’s board in 2009.  Since Peltz became a Legg Mason director, the asset-
management firm has cut jobs and announced a restructuring plan
to lift operating margins.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  BNY Mellon  and Chicago-based Northern Trust are scheduled
to report earnings tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  