-- 
Peter Mullen, Skadden Arps Executive Partner During M&A Boom, Dies at 83

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-10-18T16:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/peter-mullen-skadden-arps-executive-partner-during-m-a-boom-dies-at-83.html
Peter P. Mullen, who served as
executive partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP as
it thrived during the wave of corporate takeovers, mergers and
acquisitions, has died. He was 83.  He died Oct. 15 following a long struggle with cardiac
issues, the New York-based firm said in a statement.  As executive partner from 1981 to 1994 -- and informally
for several years before that -- Mullen steered the firm as
colleagues including Joseph Flom helped create the modern
 mergers-and-acquisitions  business. Flom, a force in the takeover
field during its heyday from 1975 to 1990, died in February.  As the firm grew in size and stature, Mullen “knew his
role,” Lincoln Caplan wrote in his  1994 book , “Skadden: Power,
Money, and the Rise of a Legal Empire.”  “Flom wanted to attract and do deals, the firm’s life
blood, and he needed someone to run the firm; Mullen was willing
and able,” Caplan wrote. “He was a builder of consensus as
well as its barometer. He created a working social order to
discipline Flom’s potent, if sometimes raw, energy.”  As executive partner -- what other firms call managing
partner --  Mullen  oversaw the opening of 14 offices around the
globe, including in Beijing,  Hong Kong , Moscow and  Tokyo .
Skadden is now the sixth-largest U.S. law firm with 1,859
lawyers, according to the National Law Journal’s 2011 rankings.  ‘Our Architect’  Mullen spent several years as head of the Skadden’s
 corporate practice , which included public and private financing,
M&A and contests for corporate control.  “He was known as our ‘architect,’ handling both long-term
strategy and day-to-day decisions while commanding the respect
of all the firm’s attorneys and staff,” current Executive
Partner Eric J. Friedman said in a statement.  With Flom, Mullen in 1988 created the  Skadden Fellowship
Foundation , which enables young lawyers to spend two years in
public-interest law, representing poor, homeless, elderly and
disabled people in legal cases. At the time, the program was
described as the largest commitment to legal-assistance
organizations by any firm.  “This will tend to contradict the view that the
established bar has about large law firms, the view that we take
from society and do not give back,” Mullen told the New York
Times when the program was announced. “We have been successful,
and we have made money, and we have decided to put some of it
back.”  Judge’s Son  Peter Paul Mullen was born in  Manhattan  on April 8, 1928.
His mother was a librarian, his father a lawyer and, for 20
years, a state criminal court judge, Caplan wrote.  He graduated from  Georgetown University  in 1948 and
 Columbia Law School  in 1951.  Mullen was the 10th lawyer at Skadden, hired in 1961 after
being passed over for partnership at Dewey Ballantine, according
to Caplan. Dewey Ballantine is now known as  Dewey & LeBoeuf . He
was named a partner after one year at Skadden. Mullen became of
counsel in 1998.  Survivors include his wife, Billie; sons Peter and Jeff;
and daughters Kirby, Elaine and Lucy, according to the firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  