-- 
Petite Blond Butcher Sold Ruth’s Chris for 9 Figures: Interview

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-10-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/petite-blonde-butchered-beef-sold-ruth-s-chris-for-9-figures-interview.html
Ruth Fertel was a single mother who
found Chris Steak House in the classifieds, gambled with
mobsters, winning 30 grand in one night, and refused to give up
her handbag holding the day’s earnings to a robber, even though
he shot her.  “Yer mother had balls like zeppole,” one admiring tough guy
told Ruth’s son. He didn’t disagree, even though what he heard
was “zeppelins.” Now Randy Fertel has written a book about his
mother and the Ruth’s Chris chain of steakhouses, such a success
she cashed out in 1999 for a sum in “the low 9 figures.”  His father, Rodney, makes an appearance as the rich
eccentric who donned a gorilla costume to run for mayor with the
campaign slogan, “Don’t settle for a monkey.”  Fertel’s memoir, “The Gorilla Man and the Empress of
Steak,” also paints an evocative picture of  New Orleans  and
southern culture.  We spoke at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  Lundborg: What are your earliest memories of Ruth’s Chris?  Fertel: That incredible steak sizzling in butter! But the
waitresses and chef Vontel were also my new family.  Vontel would take me to after-hour black bars at a time
when desegregation was new, a world I’d never seen.  I was 15, and one of his first lessons was: “Mens drink
scotch, not that sweet bourbon.” He also told me I was not
getting enough lovin’.  Petite Butcher  Lundborg: Your mother butchered the meat herself?  Fertel: Yes, even though she was 110 pounds and the meat
weighed 30-40 pounds. It was all short loins that came in these
oak-staved barrels, wrapped in cheese cloth, dry-aged meat,
covered with blackish, greenish mold that you cut off. It was
heavenly.  Lundborg: What was the key to her success?  Fertel: She was great in the kitchen, decisive, and a hard
worker. She was also very charismatic, and people loved her.  She was tough -- to make sure she always got the best lots,
she challenged the suppliers any time the meat didn’t come in
right.  Lundborg: How did her steakhouse become such a hot spot?  Fertel: The restaurant was always the place to go when you
did well at the track. Then the oil-patch people started to
come, and in New Orleans, the politicians follow the money, so
they came.  The Bluebloods from uptown control the politicians, so they
wanted to be around to make sure the politicians were doing the
right thing. So, it became the power lunch, power dinner spot.  Sex Booths  Lundborg: The sex booths didn’t hurt either, I take it?  Fertel: The original restaurant had three booths surrounded
by wood and a green curtain. There were so many moments of
indiscretion the waitresses walked in on, my mom had to install
a light so patrons could signal when they wanted service.  Lundborg: Soon, blacks felt comfortable there as well. How
did your mother manage that?  Fertel: She was free from racism. The civil-rights attorney
Lolis Edward Elie first broke the color barrier at the
restaurant, brought there by a man who wanted his support in an
election.  Some cracker came up to my mother, and said, “If that boy
is going to eat here, I’ll never eat here again.”  My mother replied, “There’s the door.”  Lundborg: Fellow restaurateur Arnie Morton said your mother
created the prime-steak business. What did he mean?  Prime Market  Fertel: Steak had been this tiny niche for the aficionado
and she expanded it. Her ads said only two percent of the beef
in America is worthy of her customers, so she educated people on
the value of this expensive product.  Even though it’s not the healthiest trend, the prime market
now is huge.  Lundborg: For you, the same qualities that made her a
successful businesswoman made her a less-than-successful mother.  Fertel: Mom was determined to feed the world, but had
trouble nurturing those nearest to her. It’s not just me -- many
of her executives felt they’d gotten short shrift and there were
a lot of lawsuits toward the end of her life. There’s a tragic
quality.  Her father instilled in her this grandiosity, that she
“hung the moon,” so if she had to do it at the expense of
others, that was okay. My mother spent the rest of her life
proving that she could do anything.  Lundborg: Your mom divorced two husbands, and then never
married again. Why?  Unworthy Men  Fertel: She didn’t want men telling her what to do. My
mother also had an incredible track record in surrounding
herself with men who were not worthy of her.  Lundborg: You went to work for her, got fired and
ultimately sued to protect your interest in the business. Why so
much turmoil?  Fertel: My biggest motivation was the fateful decision that
I needed to save my mom from herself and the people she had
surrounded herself with.  The fact was she didn’t want to be saved. She was loving
it!  Lundborg: What was it like, going back to New Orleans after
Katrina?  Fertel: It was heartbreaking. The house I grew up in was
flooded, the foundation cracked, the facade falling down, and
the owner’s goods were all out on the street. The big tree was
cut down.  I thought of Louis Armstrong crooning about the “tall sugar
pines where mockingbirds used to sing,” but even the birds were
silent. Katrina had blown them all away.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 