-- 
Petrobras to Produce 2.1 Million Barrels a Day by Year-End

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-10-18T14:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/petrobras-oil-output-at-2-1-million-barrels-a-day-by-end-of-year.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Brazil ’s
state-controlled oil producer, plans to produce 2.1 million
barrels of crude of day in Brazil by the end of the year, Chief
Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli said today.  That equals the average daily production goal for the year,
company data show. Output averaged 2.01 million barrels a day in
the first eight months, falling short of targets. Petrobras had
“more stoppages this year than last,” Gabrielli said today in
Paris, where he’s attending a meeting of ministers at the
 International Energy Agency .  A “global bottleneck” has delayed rig deliveries this
year, Gabrielli said earlier this month. The Rio de Janeiro-
based company plans to more than double oil and gas output over
the decade as it develops the largest discoveries in the Western
Hemisphere since  Mexico  discovered the Cantarell field in 1976.  While Petrobras plans to add 3 million barrels a day by
2020, it doesn’t have the technology or the financial capability
to develop all the projects that are needed, Gabrielli told the
IEA conference. The financial crisis affecting countries in the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development will bring
a “flight to safety” among investors in oil projects, he said.
Gabrielli declined to give a production target for next year.  Deep-Water Funding  Petrobras’s Lula and Libra fields are in deep water known
as the pre-salt area along Brazil’s coast. To raise funds to
develop such fields, the company plans to raise $13.6 billion
selling assets, including farming out stakes in licenses in
Brazil or abroad, Gabrielli said. “We are ruling out any areas
of pre-salt but there could be some outside these areas.”  The asset-sale plan may take five years, the CEO said
earlier this year.  The company revised its $224.7 billion investment program
this year to include $12.4 billion to develop new oil reserves
acquired from the government as part of a $70 billion share
sale, the largest in history. Petrobras acquired rights to
develop about 5 billion barrels of oil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 