-- 
Philippine Peso Drops on Europe Outlook, China Growth Slowdown

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-10-18T02:54:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/philippine-peso-drops-on-europe-outlook-china-growth-slowdown.html
The Philippine peso dropped as
investors cut holdings of emerging-market stocks on concern
European leaders will be unable to resolve the region’s debt
crisis by as early as next week.  The currency retreated from a one-month high as data showed
 China ’s economic growth trailed forecasts and the MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index of regional stocks fell by the most in two weeks.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s office yesterday knocked down
what it called “dreams” that the region’s fiscal debt crisis
will be resolved at an Oct. 23 European Union summit. Philippine
 government bonds  declined.  “It’s difficult for the peso to strengthen from here
without any concrete rescue plan in Europe and there may be
disappointment after the EU summit,” said Shigeo Zenki, head of
the treasury department at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
Manila.  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 43.195 per dollar as of
10:41 a.m. in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency reached 43.115 yesterday, the strongest level since
Sept. 14.  The yield on the 7.375 percent security due March 2021
climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.83
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services.  Finance chiefs from the Group of 20 nations had endorsed
parts of a plan to contain  Europe ’s debt situation in Paris over
the weekend, with a summit in Brussels on Oct. 23 chosen as the
deadline for an agreement.  Germany  said the time needed to
resolve the issues will extend into 2012.  China’s economy  grew 9.1 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, versus 9.5 percent in the previous three months.
Economists polled by Bloomberg had forecast a 9.3 percent
expansion. China including  Hong Kong  was the  Philippines ’
biggest export market in 2010, according to government data.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will keep its benchmark rate at
4.5 percent at its Oct. 20 meeting, according to all 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Monetary-policy settings are
appropriate and there is no compelling reason for a shift,
Governor Amando Tetangco said on Oct. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  