-- 
Picasso, Hirst Works Boost Paris Fair in Battle for Art Sales

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-10-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/picasso-hirst-works-boost-paris-fair-in-battle-for-art-sales.html
Works by  Pablo Picasso  and  Damien Hirst  will be on offer in Paris from today as the French capital
joins the crowded market for art fairs.  FIAC comes a week after London’s Frieze, which had $350
million of art on sale, tested investors’ faith in contemporary
works and as  Europe  struggles with its sovereign debt crisis.  “FIAC is on the up,” the New York-based art adviser David
Nisinson said. “Frieze is a perfectly good fair. It’s just that
the difference between these events is not so great and
collectors have to choose.” Amid volatile stock markets, “it’s
a little tougher to sell works at less than $50,000,” he said.  France’s biggest fair -- Foire Internationale d’Art
Contemporain is its full name -- is helped by its central
location in the Grand Palais and attracts collectors such as
Christie’s International owner  Francois Pinault , and  Bernard Arnault , chairman of LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA.  The 38th FIAC, which previews for VIPs today and doesn’t
give any estimate for the total value of art on offer, brings
together 168 galleries from 21 countries. Unlike Frieze, which
focuses on contemporary artists, the Paris event combines pieces
by emerging names with big-ticket works by Picasso and other
20th-century modernists.  London-based  Lisson ,  Sadie Coles HQ  and  White Cube  -- which
will be bringing Hirst’s “Where Will It End,’’ priced at about
2.5 million euros ($3.43 million) -- are among the dozen
galleries returning to FIAC. New York dealers  Pace  and  Matthew
Marks  will be making debuts. All are Frieze exhibitors,
underlining the growing rivalry between the two October events.  Pricey Pop Art  “A propos de New York en Peinturama” by the French Pop
artist Martial Raysse will be among the most valuable works,
priced at about 5 million euros on the booth of the Paris dealer
 Galerie Natalie Seroussi .  London  and Zurich dealers Hauser & Wirth are now
representing the American artist  Rashid Johnson  and offering his
new works priced $50,000 to $95,000.  There was no sales stampede at Frieze, according to
dealers, with many browsers hesitating. Still, more than 60,000
visitors went to the five-day event and there were “strong
sales at every level,” Frieze organizers said in an e-mail.  The most expensive confirmed sale was 1.5 million pounds
($2.4 million) for  Gerhard Richter ’s digital print “Strip
(CR921-1)” on the booth of the New York and Paris dealer  Marian
Goodman , Frieze said. The Paris dealer  Emmanuel Perrotin  sold
the Takashi Murakami carbon-fiber sculpture “Bunbu-kun” for
$900,000, Frieze said.  Financial News  “It felt a bit subdued,” said Robert Read, fine art
expert at insurer  Hiscox Ltd. (HSX) , which valued the Frieze material
at $25 million less than last year. “There’s so much bad
financial news in the papers at the moment. It weighs heavily on
people’s minds,” said Read.  As at Art Basel in June, works by museum-exhibited artists 
in the $200,000 to $500,000 range remained a sweet spot for 
wealthy buyers at Frieze.  The Indonesian-Chinese collector Budi Tek bought the 2011
Daniel Richter painting “London is the place for me,” priced
at $350,000, on the booth of the New York gallery  David Zwirner .
London and Berlin dealers Sprueth Magers sold the 2006 George Condo painting “Interception,” tagged at $450,000, to an
American client.  Michael Landy’s 2011 kinetic sculpture “Credit Card
Destroying Machine,” which produced a drawing for anyone
prepared to part, permanently, with their plastic, attracted
attention at the booth of the London dealer  Thomas Dane . Priced
at 120,000 pounds ($188,000), it was a confirmed sale to a
European collector on the concluding weekend of the fair.  “It's a much more mature-paced market,” said Francois 
Chantala, partner at Thomas Dane. “People know they can take a 
couple of days to make a decision.”  There were also substantial one-off sales at the boutique 
Pavilion of Art & Design London fair in Berkeley Square. 
 Dickinson Gallery  sold a 1966 red seven-cut Lucio Fontana 
“Concetto Spaziale-Attese” painting priced at about 3 million 
euros.  The Foire Internationale d’Art Contemporain is at the Grand
Palais, Paris, through Oct. 23. Information:
 http://www.fiac.com/?lg=en   (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Paris at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 