-- 
Pipeline-Safety Group Urges House Measure Cutting Risks

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-10-18T21:02:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/pipeline-safety-group-urges-house-to-pass-measure-lowering-risks.html
The Pipeline Safety Trust  urged the
U.S. House of Representatives to pass legislation aimed at
reducing the risk of explosions and leaks, similar to a measure
adopted by the Senate.  The bill approved unanimously by the Senate yesterday would
raise civil penalties for violations and call for installing
automatic or remote-controlled shut-off valves on new lines. The
legislation also requires the Transportation secretary to
develop rules for examining previously untested pipelines in
populated areas.  Lawmakers introduced the measure after the 2010 rupture of
a  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  natural-gas pipeline killed eight people in San
Bruno,  California . The bill gained support when oil from a
broken  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  pipe in  Montana  leaked into the
Yellowstone River in July.  “We urge the House leadership to now move quickly,” Rick
Kessler, the trust’s vice president, said today in a statement.
Senate action created “a clear path forward to quickly make
meaningful and needed improvements to our nation’s pipeline
safety program.”  The House Energy and Commerce Committee approved the
legislation on Sept. 21. The Pipeline Safety Trust, based in
Bellingham, Washington, was formed after three children died in
a 1999 pipeline explosion in the community.  Boxer Faults Quaterman  Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat, urged the
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, part of
the Transportation Department, to adopt recommendations of the
independent  National Transportation Safety Board  after the
investigation of the San Bruno explosion, which injured 58
people and destroyed 38 homes.  “This happened, and you have not started to change your
protocol?” Boxer told Cynthia Quarterman, the pipeline-agency
administrator, at a hearing today in Washington. “I don’t sense
this feeling of emergency in your voice, Miss Quarterman.”  Boxer said the pipeline agency should “work through the
weekend,” conducting tests and consulting with state officials
to ensure that an accident such as San Bruno doesn’t recur.  She asked Quarterman to meet with her saftey-board
counterpart as soon as possible, to discuss changes in the
agency’s procedures.  “We believe we do have protocols in place,” Quarterman
said in response to Boxer. The agency has talked with NTSB “to
understand what it is they have in mind when they made those
recommendations,” Quaterman said.  The House bill is H.R. 2937.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  