-- 
Poland May Consider Raising Main Interest Rate on Prices, Bratkowski Says

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-10-18T12:13:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/poland-may-consider-raising-main-interest-rate-on-prices-bratkowski-says.html
Poland  will probably leave borrowing
costs unchanged into 2012 and may consider raising them as a
“shallow and short” economic slowdown is unlikely to curb
prices, central banker Andrzej Bratkowski said.  Inflation slowing economic growth is the biggest concern
and there’s no prospect for a “strong deceleration” in price
growth, Bratkowski said in an interview in Warsaw yesterday.
With the economy expanding at a 3 percent rate “there’s not
much” downward pressure on costs, he said.  “In the short term, we should adopt a wait-and-see stance
that may stretch into the beginning of next year,” Bratkowski
said. “The probability that we will see a rebound in GDP growth
after two or three quarters is greater than the likelihood that
the slowdown will continue. That means we may have to consider a
rate increase.”  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  left the benchmark seven-day
reference rate unchanged this month at 4.5 percent after raising
borrowing costs by 1 percentage point earlier this year as it
weighs a slowing economy against near decade-high inflation.
Investors on the derivative market expect the central bank to
cut  interest rates  by July as nine-month forward rate agreements
are trading 34 basis points below the three-month Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate.  No Rate-Cut Scope  “I don’t see any scope or need for interest-rate cuts,”
Bratkowski said. “In our latest statement, we reiterated the
possibility of monetary tightening as rate increases are still
more likely than cuts” and “our aim was to restrain the wildly
fluctuating expectations on the markets.”  Poland’s annual inflation rate reached 5 percent in May,
the highest in almost 10 years, before easing to 3.9 percent in
September. It has been hovering above the Monetary Policy
Council’s 2.5 percent target for more than a year.  Other members of the rate-setting  Monetary Policy  Council
including Anna Zielinska-Glebocka and Zyta Gilowska have said
it’s too early to reduce borrowing costs as inflation isn’t
slowing enough.  Still, Governor  Marek Belka  said the central bank shouldn’t
“tighten too much” in response to inflation, while keeping its
policies oriented toward maintaining stability in a global
economic crisis.  “We need to combat inflation, but not overdo it,” Belka
wrote in an article for Bloomberg Businessweek Polska, published
yesterday.  Growth Risk  Gross domestic product, which expanded 4.3 percent from a
year earlier in the second quarter, may grow 3.8 percent in
2011, according to the  International Monetary Fund , which
slashed on Sept. 20 its forecast for Poland from 4 percent in a
May report, downgrading also 2012 GDP outlook to 3 percent from
earlier 3.8 percent.  “For the time being, inflation risks substantially
outweigh the risk of slower economic growth,” Bratkowski said.
“I don’t think we’ll be seeing consumer-price growth below 3.5
percent this year, although it could get close to that level in
December even with a weak zloty.”  The currency’s third-quarter depreciation will be reflected
in prices from October, Bratkowski said. The zloty slumped about
10 percent against the euro in the third quarter, making it the
worst performer among emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Zloty Slump  “The only thing that could bring the inflation rate down
faster is the zloty,” Bratkowski said. “So far it’s been
making our job harder. The zloty has some room to start working
in our favor. Nevertheless, inflation will slow only
gradually.”  The zloty slumped to the lowest level in 27 months before
the central bank intervened to strengthen the currency on Sept.
21 for the first time since the  exchange rate  was allowed to
move freely in April 2000. It stepped into the market two more
times in the three following weeks.  The central bank’s operations were effective, “calming
 market sentiment  and making the zloty less volatile,”
Bratkowski said. Still, it would be “dangerous” to boost the
currency to curb inflation, he said, adding that such an outcome
“wasn’t the point” of intervention.  “Monetary policy shouldn’t be guided by the exchange rate
so long as we don’t see an escalation of external events and the
zloty doesn’t become a destabilizing force,” Bratkowski said.  The zloty weakened to 4.3713 against the euro at 2:12 p.m.
in Warsaw from 4.3573 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  