-- 
Poland’s Bratkowski Sees Rate Increases More Likely Than Cuts

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-10-18T10:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/poland-s-bratkowski-sees-rate-increases-more-likely-than-cuts.html
Andrzej Bratkowski, a member of the
Polish central bank’s  Monetary Policy  Council, said interest-
rate increases are more likely than cuts because of the pace of
inflation .  Bratkowski was speaking in an interview yesterday in
Warsaw.  On inflation:  “High inflation is still the main argument against rate
cuts. I don’t expect a strong deceleration in price growth. Even
with the economy expanding at a 3 percent rate, there’s not much
disinflation pressure.  ‘‘Right now the drag on economic growth is fast inflation,
which curbs growth of real incomes and hurts consumption. For
the time being, inflation risks substantially outweigh the risk
of slower economic growth.  ‘‘I wouldn’t say our present situation is too bad, both
with regard to inflation and economic growth. That doesn’t mean
we’re in great shape. My biggest concern is inflation. I don’t
think we’ll be seeing consumer-price growth below 3.5 percent
this year, although it could get close to that level in December
even with a weak zloty.  ‘‘I don’t expect inflation will return to the 2.5 percent
target faster than the central bank’s forecast.”  On the rate outlook:  “I don’t see any scope or need for interest-rate cuts.
They would be ineffective in stimulating growth and would
provide extra incentive to speculate against the zloty.  ‘‘In our latest statement, we reiterated the possibility of
monetary tightening and that rate increases are still more
likely than cuts. The dip in economic growth is going to be
relatively shallow and short, so our aim was to restrain the
wildly fluctuating expectations on the markets.  ‘‘Nothing has happened in either the European or Polish
economies that justifies current rate-cut expectations. If
economic growth does slow to less than 2.5 percent and the zloty
begins to appreciate, then we could start to consider monetary
easing.  ‘‘In the short term, we should adopt a wait-and-see stance
that may stretch into the beginning of next year. The
probability that we will see a rebound in GDP growth after two
or three quarters is greater than the likelihood that the
slowdown will continue.  ‘‘That means we may have to consider a rate increase,
although it’s more likely that we’re facing a prolonged period
with rates set at present levels. That won’t mean a continuation
of ‘wait-and-see,’ which implies the possibility of a move in
either direction. Quite simply, we’ll be dealing with less
uncertainty and a clearer situation that may not demand any
action from us.’’  On the currency:  ‘‘The only thing that could bring the inflation rate down
faster is the zloty. So far it’s been making our job harder.
However, I think the situation will return to normal and the
 exchange rate  will get back to a reasonable level closer to 4
per euro than 4.3. This means the zloty has some room to start
working in our favor. Nevertheless, inflation will slow only
gradually.  ‘‘The orthodox approach to a free-floating currency hasn’t
worked, in my view. The main purpose of intervention is to
reduce fluctuations of the exchange rate, not to defend a
particular level.  ‘‘It would be dangerous to prop up the zloty as a way to
curb inflation and that wasn’t the point of intervening.
Monetary policy shouldn’t be guided by the exchange rate so long
as we don’t see an escalation of external events and the zloty
doesn’t become a destabilizing force.  ‘‘I think the central bank’s interventions to date have
been effective, because they succeeded in calming  market
sentiment  and making the zloty less volatile.’’  On public finances:  ‘‘There isn’t any pressure for immediate and drastic
spending cuts. It’s possible the deficit will narrow to 3
percent of GDP next year if we get economic growth of at least 3
percent.  ‘‘The fiscal problem can be solved largely by restraining
spending growth rather than by radical cuts. I don’t see any
need to amend the 2012 budget bill. The deficit limit shouldn’t
be breached even if economic growth falls short of the 4 percent
forecast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  