-- 
Polish Jobs Growth Slowed for Third Month in September

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-10-18T14:04:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/polish-jobs-growth-slows-for-third-month-to-2-8-in-september.html
Polish job growth at companies
employing more than nine workers slowed for a third month in
September as the largest economy among eastern  European Union
members  lost momentum.  Employment rose 2.8 percent from a year earlier after
increasing 3.1 percent in August, the  Central Statistical Office 
in Warsaw said today. The result compares with a median estimate
of 22 economists for an increase of 2.9 percent. On month,
employment fell 0.1 percent on month. Polish companies shed a
net 5,000 jobs last month.  While the government of  Poland  has kept its 4 percent
economic-growth forecast for this year, the  International
Monetary Fund  revised its 2011 outlook to 3.8 percent from 4
percent last month on concern the euro-debt crisis will damp
demand for Polish products abroad.  “We are seeing the scenario of economic slowdown coming
through in the second half of the year,” said Jaroslaw Janecki,
chief economist at  Societe Generale  in Warsaw.  Wages rose 5.2 percent from a year earlier, compared with
5.4 percent the previous month and below the 5.5 percent median
estimate of 23 economists. Wages fell 0.3 percent from August.  The zloty traded at 4.3657 per euro at 4:30 p.m. in Warsaw,
little changed from just before the release and down from 4.3581
late yesterday.  “The employment-growth dynamics will continue to slow and
wages will no longer increase in the current pace, backing
expectations for no interest rate cut,” said Monika Kurtek, an
economist at Bank Pocztowy in Warsaw.  The Narodowy Bank Polski left the benchmark seven-day
 reference rate  unchanged this month at 4.5 percent after raising
borrowing costs by 1 percentage point earlier this year as it
weighs a slowing economy against near decade-high inflation.  “In the short term, we should adopt a wait-and-see stance
that may stretch into the beginning of next year,” central
banker Andrzej Bratkowski said in an interview in Warsaw
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  