-- 
Polysilicon Slump Grows as Spot Prices Fall Most Since June

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-10-18T15:52:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/polysilicon-slump-accelerates-as-spot-prices-fall-6-1-on-week.html
A slump in the polysilicon market
accelerated in the past week, with spot prices for the material
used in solar panels tumbling the most since June, Bloomberg New
Energy Finance data show.  Average polysilicon prices fell 6.1 percent to $41.13 a
kilogram, according to the London-based researcher’s survey of
contracts conducted Oct. 11 to Oct. 17. That compares with a 5.8
percent drop in the BNEF polysilicon price index a week earlier.  Polysilicon makers  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  and Renewable Energy
Corp. ASA have seen spot prices slide 48 percent since March as
demand for solar panels slumped amid subsidy cuts in Germany and
 Italy . The decline may even force the biggest polysilicon
producers to cut prices for clients tied into long-term
contracts as oversupply ravages the industry, according to Sean McLoughlin, an analyst at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in  London .  “You don’t want to watch your customers go out of
business” because contract prices make them uncompetitive
against rivals buying on the  spot market , he said in a telephone
interview.  REC, which  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  raised to “neutral”
from “sell” yesterday, dropped 3.4 percent in Oslo trading to
4.77 kroner. Wacker rose 1.4 percent to 78.66 euros in  Frankfurt 
after earlier falling 1.9 percent when the prices were released.  Companies that fashion polysilicon into wafers and then
cells for solar panels are forcing down the cost of the raw
material as they attempt to claw back profit from polysilicon
makers after a supply glut weighed on the price of their goods.  Prices for six-inch solar wafers and solar cells posted
smaller declines with wafers losing 1.7 percent to $1.71 each
and photovoltaic cells slid 1.4 percent to 69 cents per watt of
capacity, according to data from New Energy Finance.  JA Solar Holdings Co., the biggest solar cell maker that is
down 76 percent this year, fell 0.6 percent at 11:41 a.m. in  New
York  to $1.69. Suntech Power Holdings, the largest panel maker,
slipped 2.7 percent to $2.16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  