-- 
Position Limits, Bank ‘Living Wills,’ Antitrust: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-10-18T12:57:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/position-limits-bank-living-wills-eu-antitrust-compliance.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission may increase risk of manipulation and volatility in
markets for oil, gas and other commodities unless new
speculation limits apply similar treatment to physical-settled
and cash-settled derivatives, Senator Maria Cantwell said.  Cantwell, a Washington Democrat who supports so-called
position limits, made the comment in an Oct. 14 letter to CFTC
Chairman Gary Gensler, whose agency is scheduled to vote on
Dodd-Frank Act rules to impose the restrictions at a meeting in
Washington today.  In a January proposal, the CFTC supported conditional
position limits that would allow larger positions in cash
derivatives markets. Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s
biggest futures exchange, objected to the plan’s different
treatment of the physical-delivered derivatives market, which it
dominates, and the cash-settled market primarily controlled by
Atlanta-based  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)   The CFTC may change the rule to narrow differences between
the two markets, Bloomberg News reported on Sept. 22.  Separately, the top U.S. derivatives regulator is slated to
vote today whether to curb trading in oil, wheat, gold and other
commodities after a boom in raw-materials speculation, record-
high prices and years of debate and delay.  The rule calls for traders to aggregate their positions, a
change that may affect large firms with multiple strategies. It
also would tighten an exemption allowing so-called bona fide
hedgers to exceed the caps.  The rule has been among the most controversial provisions
of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, enacted last year, which
gave the CFTC the authority to limit trading in over-the-counter
commodity swaps as well as exchange-traded futures. The proposal
would limit the number of contracts a single firm can hold.  The legislation gave the commission jurisdiction over the
estimated $300 trillion U.S. derivatives market, and the CFTC
has proposed more than 50 rules. The agency missed deadlines to
impose position limits in energy and metals markets by mid-
January and agricultural markets by April. A revision of the
rule proposed in January is to be voted on today.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Fed Approves Final Rule on Banks’ ‘Living Will’ Wind-down Plans  The  Federal Reserve  approved a final rule implementing the
Dodd-Frank Act’s requirement that the largest bank holding
companies design a plan in the event of their own bankruptcy.  The so-called living wills must “describe the company’s
strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy during
times of financial distress,” the Fed said yesterday in a
statement in Washington.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. board voted unanimously
on Sept. 13 to release a joint final rule laying out what the
largest and most complex financial firms must include in living
wills.  Congress, in the Dodd-Frank Act, expanded regulators’
authority to seize and unwind lenders in response to the market
tumult that followed the September 2008 bankruptcy of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  The new rules are designed to eliminate
the need for bailouts by giving the FDIC power to liquidate
large firms whose failure could threaten the financial system.  The largest U.S. banks, including Citigroup Inc.,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , will have to develop
annual strategic plans that describe the specific actions the
companies would have to take in resolution. The plans must also
describe the company’s organizational structure and its
interconnections to other firms, according to the Fed.  EU Boosts Defense Rights Amid Backlash Against Antitrust Raiders  European Union antitrust regulators bolstered companies’
rights of defense in the wake of a backlash from companies
including  Intel Corp. (INTC)  over the fairness of procedures in
competition probes.  Companies may now ask an independent arbiter to step in
during disputes with regulators over the confidentiality of
documents and when they are concerned about answering questions
that could incriminate them, the  European Commission  said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  The EU’s hearing officer will now be able to act during the
early stages of an antitrust probe, in disputes during merger
investigations and negotiations on settlements of cases, the
commission said. Regulators will also give companies more
information on the status of a probe, tell them how possible
fines may be calculated, give them more details of evidence
submitted by rivals or customers and explain why it rejects
complaints.  German Ministry Open to Discuss Separation of Investment Banking  Proposals to separate investment and retail banking are
“interesting approaches” for international talks about
financial-market regulation, German Finance Ministry spokesman
Johannes Blankenheim said.  “These ideas” should be discussed “intensively” at the
international level, he said. Blankenheim made the remarks to
reporters yesterday in Berlin.  Bjoern Saenger, a lawmaker from Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
Free Democratic Party pro-market coalition ally, said in an e-
mailed statement he welcomes the ministry’s readiness to discuss
a separation and is looking forward to any proposals.  The debate in Germany comes after the U.K. government
decided to force lenders to insulate their consumer-banking
units by 2019 as Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne
seeks to shield customers and taxpayers from another financial
crisis.  Separately, Germany’s saving banks and cooperative banks
welcome the discussions on a separation between investment
banking and customer business, Die Welt reported, citing Uwe
Froehlich, president of the country’s  DSGV savings bank
association .  Constraints Seen for Market Makers Under Volcker Rule on Trading  Confusion about what constitutes proprietary trading under
the Volcker rule may spur banks to reduce market making for
customers, according to Craig Pirrong of the University of
Houston and Thomas Gira of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Firms will spend less to service clients, Pirrong, a
finance professor specializing in risk management, said in a
telephone interview. The proposals may have a chilling effect on
some businesses, according to Gira, executive vice president of
the oversight  organization  for the securities industry.  The rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul
Volcker , was part of last year’s overhaul to rein in risky
trading by firms whose customer deposits are federally insured.
Concern is growing among banks that it will sometimes prove
impossible to distinguish between proprietary transactions and
trading done for the benefit of clients.  Separately,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. lender,
said it’s closing a proprietary-trading unit that incurred
losses in the third quarter, as regulators prepare to restrict
banks from making bets with shareholder cash.  The company is almost “two-thirds done” winding down the
Equity Principal Strategies unit, according to Chief Financial
Officer  John Gerspach  said yesterday in a conference call with
analysts. Market turmoil caused a revenue decline for the unit,
which suffered losses as it exited trading positions, Gerspach
said.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, is shutting the
business as lawmakers draft the so-called Volcker rule, which
aims to restrict banks from making bets with shareholder money.
Other firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley already have exited similar businesses. New York-based
Citigroup partly blamed Equity Principal Strategies for a 73
percent slump in third-quarter revenue from equities-trading.  The Federal Reserve drafted the proposal, released on Oct.
11, with three other agencies. The public can comment until Jan.
13. A final version is slated to take effect on July 21, 2012.  “Larger banks will have to ring-fence an entity to do
their market making,” Aaron Brown, chief risk manager at hedge
fund AQR Capital Management LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut. “It
will shake things up and open the field to new competitors
because big franchises will have to reorganize.”  For more, click here, and click here.  Senate Subcommittee Plans Hearing on Exchange Traded Funds  The  Subcommittee on Securities, Insurance and Investment 
will examine exchange-traded funds, in a hearing on Capitol Hill
tomorrow, the committee said in statement on its website.  Witnesses expected to testify at the hearing include Eileen
Rominger, Director of the Division of  Investment Management  at
the Securities and Exchange Commission, Eric Noll, Executive
Vice President Transaction Services at NASDAQ OMX,  Noel Archard ,
Managing Director at BlackRock I-Shares, and Harold Bradley,
Chief Investment Officer at Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation,
according to the committee’s statement.  Compliance Action  EU Approves Belgium’s Takeover of Dexia Unit Pending Probe  The European Commission gave temporary approval to
Belgium’s takeover of  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s local consumer-lending unit
pending an expanded probe into the rescue.  Dexia will be broken up after Belgium agreed earlier this
month to pay 4 billion euros ($5.5 billion) for the retail
banking division and to guarantee 60 percent of a so-called bad
bank to be set up for Dexia’s troubled assets.  Regulators must approve the terms for government rescues of
banks and has required banks to sell off assets to compensate
for the state support.  Belgium has to submit a restructuring plan for the bank
within six months that shows “adequate burden sharing by all
involved of the restructuring costs” and “sufficient
measures” to compensate for the distortions of competition, the
commission said.  Dexia will sell assets, including its Luxembourg unit and
its French municipal lending arm, to give the bad bank capital
to absorb future losses.  SMBC Nikko Said to Be Dropped From Japan International Bond Sale  SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. will be eliminated as a lead
manager for  Japan International Cooperation Agency ’s bond sale
following a probe into insider trading, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  JICA, as the state-run agency is known, is expected to
announce the decision today, the people said, declining to be
identified as the matter is confidential. The sale of about 20
billion yen ($259 million) in bonds to individual investors in
December will be managed by  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  and
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., one of the people
said.  SMBC Nikko spokesman Kiyoo Kuniyoshi declined to comment.  The brokerage said on Oct. 6 that it is being investigated
by  Japan’s Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission  for a
possible insider trading violation by an executive.  “We are fully cooperating with the commission’s
investigation,” SMBC Nikko, a unit  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. (8316) , said in an e-mailed statement that day, declining to
comment further.  Tognum Probes $32 Million in Payments to Korean Sales Agent  Tognum AG (TGM) , which is being acquired by Daimler AG and Rolls-
Royce Group Plc, uncovered at least 23 million euros ($32
million) in commissions at its MTU Friedrichhafen unit that may
have been wrongfully paid in connection with sales of defense-
related products in South Korea.  Tognum, the high-speed diesel engine manufacturer,
confirmed the probe in an e-mailed statement and said the
results of the investigation may be released this week.  Some funds were used to host members of the Korean military
at Asian vacation resorts and night clubs, according to a
management summary of a draft report obtained by Bloomberg News
that was prepared for Tognum by Ernst & Young GmbH. The
document, part of an internal review, focused on commissions
paid to a South Korean businessman.  Ernst & Young recommended an examination of compliance at
Tognum’s units outside Germany, the accounting firm said in the
advisory section of the draft report dated Sept. 26.  Ernst & Young spokesman Dag-Stefan Rittmeister declined to
comment on the report. Daimler spokeswoman Ute von Vellberg
declined to comment, saying it is an issue for Tognum. Rolls-
Royce didn’t immediately reply to e-mails seeking comment. South
Korean Defense Ministry spokesman Kwon Ki Hyun said he couldn’t
immediately comment when contacted by phone.  For more, click here.  Deloitte Faulted by PCAOB Over Unresolved Audit Deficiencies  Deloitte & Touche LLP repeatedly failed to support
assumptions in audits examined in a 2007 inspection, the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board said in the first public
report of unresolved deficiencies involving one of the so-called
Big Four accounting firms.  The firm’s quality controls and independence systems give
“cause for concern,” the PCAOB said in its report, which was
released yesterday. The nonprofit gives audit firms at least a
year to fix deficiencies.  The PCAOB in 2007 looked at Deloitte’s practices through
inspections at the company’s New York headquarters and 18 other
offices. The report made public yesterday lays out instances in
which the firm insufficiently weighed clients’ valuation of
assets and income-tax assumptions and faulted Deloitte’s
independence procedures.  “In our drive for continuous improvement, we have been
making a series of investments focused on strengthening and
improving our practice,” Deloitte Chief Executive Officer Joe
Echevarria said in a statement.  The disclosure isn’t a disciplinary action, said  Colleen
Brennan , a PCAOB spokeswoman.  Companies See More Litigation From Stricter Regulation, FT Says  An increase in corporate lawsuits is expected in the U.S.
and the U.K. next year, the Financial Times reported, citing a
 survey in-house lawyers  at 405 companies conducted by the law
firm Fulbright & Jaworski, LLP.  More than 90 percent of U.S. companies and 85 percent of
U.K. companies see litigation rising or remaining the same next
year, the newspaper reported. Tighter regulation was cited as
top reason for predicted increase, according to the paper.  Courts  Ex-Deloitte Partner’s Wife Settles SEC Case for $1 Million  Annabel McClellan, the wife of an ex-Deloitte Tax LP
partner, agreed to pay $1 million to settle a U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission lawsuit alleging she and her husband
tipped family members to merger deals.  The SEC will drop claims against her husband Arnold
McClellan, who headed one of Deloitte’s regional mergers and
acquisitions teams, if a federal judge approves his wife’s
settlement, said Daniel Bookin, his attorney.  Annabel McClellan didn’t admit wrongdoing, according to a
consent of final judgment filed yesterday in federal court in
 San Francisco . Robert Tashjian, an SEC lawyer in San Francisco
involved in the case, declined to comment.  McClellan, who pleaded guilty in April to one count of
obstructing the SEC’s investigation, said she overhead her
husband talking about the deals and passed the information to
her brother-in-law, according to court records.  Nanci Clarence and Nicole Neubert, lawyers for Annabel
McClellan, didn’t immediately return messages seeking comment
about the settlement.  “When the SEC was able to review all the evidence, they
recognized that Mr. McClellan had done nothing wrong,” Bookin
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  The case is U.S. v McClellan, 10-5412, U.S. District Court
(San Francisco).  Interviews/Speeches  Schaeuble Says ‘Bold Steps’ Required to Resolve Crisis  German Finance  Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble discussed the
sovereign-debt crisis, fiscal consolidation and efforts to
stabilize Europe’s banking system.  Schaeuble said he expects the European Union’s regulators
to make decisions that will ensure that the bloc’s biggest banks
have enough capital to deal with the sovereign debt crisis. He
also said the euro region will use the enhanced European
Financial Stability Facility “in a flexible way and in the most
efficient way. I think we will get it.”  He spoke at London’s Chatham House.  For more, click here.  Solvency II Will Be Fully Applied From 2014, Van Hulle Says  Solvency II, a proposed risk-based regulatory framework for
European insurers, will be fully applied from January 1, 2014,
Karel van Hulle, head of the  European Commission ’s insurance and
pensions unit, said at a conference in Berlin yesterday.  “Europe’s council, commission and parliament have all
agreed that there shouldn’t be a big bang,” van Hulle said.
“The transition regime will unfold during 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 