-- 
Pound Falls Versus Dollar as U.K. Inflation Fails to Undermine BOE Stance

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-10-18T15:56:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/pound-falls-versus-dollar-as-u-k-inflation-fails-to-undermine-boe-stance.html
The pound weakened versus the yen
and dollar as stocks slid and record-tying U.K. inflation failed
to persuade investors that the  Bank of England  will temper its
bond-buying program after it was revived this month.  Ten-year gilts rose for a second day as the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) 
dropped. Consumer-price gains accelerated to match a record high
in September, rising 5.2 percent from a year earlier, the Office
for National Statistics in London said today. Sterling’s decline
versus the euro was limited amid concern  Europe ’s options for
overcoming the debt crisis are narrowing after  Germany  doused
expectations of a breakthrough at this weekend’s summit.  “In the short term CPI was going to spike but in the long
run we still know that the Bank of England believes deflationary
forces will remain in place,” said  Simon Derrick , chief
currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in London.
“The idea that sterling should have made substantial gains on
the premise that people were going to change their views about
monetary policy was probably ill-founded. We’re going to remain
pretty relaxed on monetary policy for a while.”  Sterling depreciated 0.8 percent to 120 yen at 4:28 p.m.
London time, and dropped 0.7 percent to $1.5638. The pound was
0.3 percent weaker against the euro at 87.52 pence.  Quantitative Easing  The U.K. central bank announced an extension of its bond-
purchase program to 275 billion pounds ($430 billion) from 200
billion pounds on Oct. 6, saying the “deterioration in the
outlook has made it more likely” that inflation will undershoot
the bank’s 2 percent target in the medium term. Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King  will deliver a speech in Liverpool today
and minutes of the central bank decision showing how policy
makers voted will be published tomorrow.  “We have to recognize that this is probably going to be
the peak and base effects become much more favorable into next
year,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-
exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
London. “I think we can expect Mr King when he speaks tonight
to reinforce that message as best he can, just to underline that
yes, we’re taking some inflation pain now, it’s going to be
temporary.”  U.K. stocks fell for a second day, led by a selloff in
mining companies, after data showed  China’s economy  grew at the
slowest pace in two years.  Dimming Optimism  The pound has slid 1.8 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which
measure a basket of 10 developed-market currencies. It has risen
3.1 percent against the 17-member European currency since the
start of the third quarter as euro-area policy makers struggled
to find a solution to the region’s sovereign debt woes.  Hopes that a plan may be put in place at an Oct. 23 meeting
of European leaders faded yesterday after German Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s spokesman knocked down “dreams” that the
summit will be the last word in taming the crisis.  Christian Noyer , head of  France ’s central bank, ruled out a ramping up of
the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying program.  The 10-year gilt yield slid 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 2.42 percent. The 3.75 percent security
maturing September 2021 advanced 0.980, or 9.80 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 111.595. The two-year note yield
fell two basis points to 0.58 percent.  U.K. government debt has returned 11 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, surpassing the 6.6
percent return for German bunds and 8.1 percent gain for U.S.
Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  