-- 
RBA’s Debelle Says Australian Banks Shielded From EU ‘Stresses’

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-18T22:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/rba-s-debelle-says-australian-banks-shielded-from-eu-stresses-.html
Australian banks are benefiting from
rising domestic deposits and investments in their debt by U.S.
funds, shielding them from stresses experienced by European
lenders, Reserve Bank Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle  said.  “Australian banks’ funding structures are considerably
more resilient to periods of stressed markets than they were
previously,” Debelle, who oversees financial markets, said in
prepared remarks for a speech in Sydney today. “We are not
seeing the same sort of stresses for the Australian banks, as
are present for some of the European banks.”  Australian lenders are reducing their reliance on offshore
bond markets as consumers save the most ever, lured by the
developed world’s highest benchmark interest rate, at 4.75
percent. Term deposits at banks surged to a record A$480.2
billion ($493 billion) in August, the most relative to offshore
bank debt in data from the RBA going back to 1984.  Debelle contrasted the experience of Australian lenders
with some European banks that have suffered a “pullback” by
U.S. money-market funds.  “Australian banks have found that U.S. MMFs have been more
than willing to maintain their exposures, including at longer
maturities,” Debelle told the Finance and Treasury Association
Congress today. “Indeed, recently the Australian banks have
been beneficiaries of a reallocation by the MMFs away from the
European banks.”  Main Risks  U.S.-based money funds, which buy short-term commercial
paper, have been shunning securities issued by some banks based
on the continent, and European Central Bank Governing Council
member Yves Mersch said Sept. 28 that liquidity shortages pose
the main risks to the region’s banking system.  Australia ’s top four banks avoided government bailouts when
funding froze worldwide in 2008 and posted an average 17 percent
jump in profits in their most recent half-year reports,
according to the RBA.  Steffen Seibert, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s chief
spokesman, said yesterday that France and  Germany  are engaged in
“intensive talks” on bolstering the European Financial
Stability Facility. He declined in an interview to comment on a
report in the Guardian that they reached an agreement on
increasing the size of the fund, saying he won’t comment on
intermediate results of the negotiations.  Debelle said “the actions by the ECB, together with the
Fed through the provision of the U.S. dollar swap facility,
should alleviate some of the funding tensions for European
banks. In effect, provided they have appropriate collateral,
European banks should be able to meet their liquidity needs in
the period ahead both in euros, and in U.S. dollars.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  