-- 
RBA Saw Scope for Cut in Australian Rates as Inflation ‘Less Concerning’

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-18T02:31:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/rba-saw-scope-for-cut-in-australian-rates-as-inflation-less-concerning-.html
Australia ’s central bank saw scope
to reduce the nation’s benchmark interest rate from a developed-
world high if needed as a slower domestic economy eased
inflation concern, minutes of its Oct. 4 meeting showed.  “It was likely that growth over the forecast period would
be somewhat slower and that the labor market would be less tight
than forecast,” the minutes released today by the Sydney-based
 Reserve Bank  showed. “This prospect, as well as the lower
starting point for inflation, meant that the inflation outlook
appeared less concerning than was the case a few months ago.”  The Australian dollar pared gains as traders boosted bets
RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  will lower the overnight cash rate
target from 4.75 percent, where he has held it for the past 11
months as employment growth slowed and global risks rose. The
weaker outlook and declining confidence reflect a European
sovereign-debt crisis and a tumble in shares that erased $10
trillion worth of equities worldwide last quarter.  “There has been a significant change at the Reserve Bank
over the past couple of months,” said  Brian Redican , senior
economist in Sydney at  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Australia’s biggest
investment bank. Today’s minutes provide “a lot more detail
about how far they think the inflation outlook has improved so I
think that adds a bit of solidity to the changing view,” he
said.  Inflation Target  The central bank aims to keep inflation in a 2 percent to 3
percent range on average, and the third-quarter consumer-price
index report is due on Oct. 26. Recent changes to CPI data by
the statistics bureau showed underlying inflation figures were
“lower than those previously published,” the minutes said.  RBA staff estimated that underlying inflation over the year
to the June quarter would have been 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent,
rather than 2.5 percent to 2.75 percent, the minutes showed.  The RBA noted the reweighting took account of changing
spending patterns, including consumers switching their
expenditure toward goods and services whose relative prices had
fallen, such as computing equipment.  Another difference was the exclusion of the interest margin
measure in the deposit-and-loan facilities category of CPI,
“which had been a source of volatility in inflation outcomes
over recent years,” it said.  Lower inflation “would increase the scope for monetary
policy to provide some support to demand, should that prove
necessary,” policy makers said, also noting the  exchange rate 
had declined from recent highs.  Currency Reaction  The Australian dollar pared gains immediately after the
release of the minutes from $1.0202 before the announcement and
$1.0157 yesterday in  New York . It bought $1.0208 at 12:43 p.m.
in Sydney, up 0.5 percent from late yesterday in New York.  “The extreme volatility observed in financial markets in
August continued through September,” policy makers said in the
minutes. “These concerns had been accentuated by broader
worries about the global economic outlook.”  Germany said yesterday that European Union leaders won’t
provide the complete fix to the euro-area debt crisis that
global policy makers are pushing for at an Oct. 23 summit. Group
of 20 finance ministers and central bankers concluded weekend
talks in Paris endorsing parts of  Europe ’s emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion.  The RBA minutes showed officials viewed the pace of near-
term economic growth as “unlikely to be as strong as earlier
expected,” reflecting global and local factors.  Rate Outlook  Traders bet there is a 76 percent chance Stevens will
reduce borrowing costs by 50 basis points by year end, up from
72 percent prior to release of the minutes, interbank cash-rate
futures showed. The RBA has relied on the Australian dollar’s
strength to temper gains in consumer prices. The local currency
reached $1.1081 on July 27, the highest level since it was
freely floated in 1983.  The currency was having different effects on industries,
the minutes said. “Conditions remained weak in the
manufacturing, construction, wholesale and retail sectors, but
stronger in the mining, transport, and recreational and personal
services sectors,” the minutes said.  Underpinning the local dollar and driving Australia’s
economy is demand from developing nations including  China  and
 India  for  iron ore , coal and natural gas. The central bank said
in the minutes the value of liquefied natural gas projects
announced so far in 2011 is around A$70 billion ($71.5 billion).  ‘Robust Pace’  China’s economy  “still appeared to be expanding at a
robust pace,” the minutes said.  Gross domestic product in China grew 9.1 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009,
the government statistics bureau said today in Beijing. The gain
was less than the median estimate of 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey of 22 economists and follows a 9.5 percent gain in
the previous three months.  Australia’s unemployment rate climbed in July and August
before declining in September for the first time in six months
as employers added double the workers economists forecast. The
RBA’s minutes showed officials viewed the job market as “a
little softer” and wage pressure easing.  A government report last week showed the number of people
employed in Australia rose in September by 20,400, from a
revised 10,500 fall in August. The jobless rate last month fell
to 5.2 percent from 5.3 percent.  Resource-rich states led the employment gains, with  Western
Australia  adding 7,300 jobs and Queensland 4,900 workers, while
the southern state of Victoria increased employment by 3,400,
the Oct. 13 report showed. New South Wales, Australia’s most
populous state, led the declines with the loss of 1,300 jobs.  The RBA said today recent data showed the labor market
conditions are now “ a little softer, though “the number of
unemployment benefit recipients had continued to fall” in
August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  