-- 
RBS Asks Judge to Reject Lehman Brothers $345 Million Payment Demand

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-18T14:33:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/rbs-asks-judge-to-reject-lehman-s-345-million-payment-demand.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
asked a bankruptcy judge to reject a $345 million payment demand
by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s brokerage, saying the defunct
firm didn’t comply with bankruptcy rules when it made the
request.  Lehman Brothers Inc. asked the judge to force Royal Bank to
pay the money, plus interest, for early termination of a 1998
swap agreement. Royal Bank refused, saying that even if
bankruptcy law bars it from claiming the money against amounts
owed, it has a security interest in the funds.  “The LBI trustee’s failure to comply with the bankruptcy
and local rules deprives RBS NV of the procedural protections it
is entitled to,” the bank said in a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Manhattan yesterday, referring to the former ABN Amro
bank it now owns. The judge should sign an order “striking”
the demand, it said.  Brokerage trustee James Giddens, who is seeking money to
pay customers, has been demanding the funds from RBS at least
since June. RBS has resisted, including an attempt to move the
case out of  bankruptcy court .  According to RBS, Giddens asked for judgment without
identifying each claim the judge should rule on, and didn’t set
up a conference before asking the judge to compel payment, among
other things.  Jake Sargent, a spokesman for Giddens, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the RBS filing.  The Lehman brokerage, which is being liquidated separately
from its bankrupt parent, went into liquidation four days after
the Lehman parent filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history
on Sept. 15, 2008.  The brokerage bankruptcy case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v.  Lehman Brothers Inc ., 08-01420, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  