-- 
Treasuries Fall on Speculation Price Data to Show Inflation Above Average

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-10-18T05:50:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/treasuries-fall-before-price-reports-lacker-sees-inflation-risk.html
Treasuries fell, snapping
yesterday’s biggest rally in two weeks, before government
reports today and tomorrow that economists said will show
inflation is running faster than average.  Ten-year notes yield negative 1.63 percentage points after
accounting for consumer prices. The figure was negative 2.05
percentage points on Sept. 22, the least since 1980. Federal
Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the Fed
risks stoking costs in the economy by trying to boost growth.  “Inflation remains elevated,” said Tomohisa Fujiki, an
interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas Securities  Japan  Ltd. in
 Tokyo . BNP’s U.S. unit is one of the 22 primary dealers that
trade directly with the Fed. “Growth should pick up next year,
and yields will go up.”  Benchmark 10-year rates advanced one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.17 percent as of 6:41 a.m. in  London ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
security due in August 2021 declined 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000
face amount, to 99 19/32.  The yield slid nine basis points yesterday, the most since
Oct. 3, as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis spurred demand for the
relative safety of  U.S. debt . Rates will rise to 3 percent by
the end of 2012, BNP said in an Oct. 13 report.  Japan’s 10-year yield increased half a basis point to 1.025
percent, matching yesterday’s high, the most in two weeks.  Inflation Data  Producer prices probably increased 6.4 percent in September
from a year earlier, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before the Labor Department
reports the figure today. The 10-year average is 2.9 percent.  Consumer prices rose 3.9 percent, versus the average of 2.4
percent, based on a separate Bloomberg survey before the
department issues the figure tomorrow.  Lacker said the central bank may increase costs in the
economy by trying to boost growth because the recovery is
hampered by conditions that are unaffected by monetary policy.  “History has repeatedly demonstrated that if a central
bank attempts to add monetary stimulus to offset nonmonetary
disturbances to growth, the result is higher inflation,” he
said yesterday in the text of a speech in Salisbury,  Maryland .  The Fed is scheduled to buy $2.25 billion to $2.75 billion
of Treasuries maturing from February 2036 to August 2041 today,
according to the central bank website, as part of its plan to
keep borrowing costs down.  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said the U.S.
faces “massive shortfalls in output and employment” and called
for new policy steps to ensure the central bank meets its
congressional mandate, speaking yesterday in a speech in
 Detroit .  Safety Demand  Europe’s debt crisis may sustain demand for the relative
safety of American securities, said  Michael Turner , a fixed-
income and currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in
Sydney.  “There’s a fair bit of caution out there among
investors,” he said. “In that environment, Treasuries should
remain reasonably well-supported.” The company’s U.S. branch is
another primary dealer.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s office damped
expectations for what it called “dreams” that an Oct. 23
summit will tame the European crisis.  Efforts to bolster  Europe ’s bailout fund by offering to
guarantee portions of the debt owed by the region’s weaker
governments are threatening  France ’s top credit ranking. The
rating is under pressure, Moody’s Investors Service said
yesterday, with investors demanding almost 1 percentage point
more to hold French bonds instead of German notes.  “The negative risk sentiment tied to Europe is dominating
everything,” said  Adrian Miller , fixed-income strategist at
Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in  New York . “Expectations
of a resolution have been far overblown.”  Inflation Protection  Investors should favor short-term Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, said Michael Pond, a bond strategist for
Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, another primary dealer.  “Inflation is coming in well above what the market’s
priced for,” Pond said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .  The difference between yields on two-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life
of the debt, has fallen to 1.27 percentage points from this
year’s high of 2.70 percentage points in April.  TIPS have returned 0.1 percent this month, versus a 0.8
percent loss for conventional Treasuries, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. An index of bonds around the world
that includes government and company debt has handed investors a
0.5 percent loss, according to the figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  