-- 
Treasuries Rise for Second Day as French Rating Concern Fuels Refuge Bid

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-10-18T13:10:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/treasury-10-year-notes-erase-decline-leaving-yield-at-2-16-.html
Treasuries pared gains as wholesale
prices in the U.S. rose more than forecast in September, damping
demand for refuge.  Benchmark 10-year yields earlier touched the lowest level
in a week after Moody’s Investors Service said  France ’s Aaa
credit rating is under pressure because of liabilities stemming
from Europe’s debt crisis and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reported
a loss. Yields had also dropped as a report showed  China’s
economy  grew at the slowest pace in two years.  “The buttons that are pushing where Treasuries go are still
the headline risks,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at
Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “Now our
domestic numbers are looking a little bit better than expected,
so Treasuries should come off a little bit after the France
headline.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes fell one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 2.14 percent at 9:06 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities due in August 2021 advanced 3/32, or 94 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 26/32. Yields earlier touched 2.08
percent, the lowest level since Oct. 11.  The U.S. producer price index climbed 0.8 percent, the most
in five months, after no change in August, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington . Economists projected a 0.2
percent gain, according to the median of 71 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. The so-called core measure, which
excludes volatile food and energy, gained 0.2 percent, also more
than predicted.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices rose 3.9 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 3.8 percent increase in August, according to the
median forecast before tomorrow’s report from the government.  France’s financial strength has weakened because of the
global financial and economic crisis and the potential for
additional liabilities stemming from  Europe ’s sovereign debt
turmoil, Moody’s said yesterday in its statement. It will
monitor and assess its “stable” outlook on the nation’s debt
over the next three months, the New York ratings company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  