-- 
Treasuries Fluctuate Amid European Turmoil, Rise in U.S. Wholesale Prices

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-10-18T18:39:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/treasuries-advance-as-investors-seek-refuge-on-europe-china.html
Treasuries fluctuated as European
turmoil bolstered the haven appeal of  U.S. government debt  while
data showed wholesale prices rose more than forecast and China
reduced holdings by the most in at least a decade.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes touched the lowest in a
week after Moody’s Investors Service said late yesterday that
France’s Aaa credit rating is under pressure because of
liabilities stemming from  Europe ’s debt crisis. Foreign
ownership of U.S. government debt reached a record even as China
cuts its holdings to the least since July 2010.  “The main focus will continue to be toward Europe, even
with the U.S. economic news improving and inflation numbers
getting stronger,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S.
government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based
brokerage for institutional investors.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes were little changed at
2.16 percent at 2:36 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. They fell earlier to 2.08 percent and rose
to 2.18 percent. The 2.125 percent securities due in August 2021
traded at 99 23/32.  Thirty-year bond yields increased three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 3.16 percent. They fell earlier to
3.05 percent.  Treasuries gained as Standard and Poor’s lowered its rating
on  Italy ’s banking industry and downgraded 24 lenders including
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA, saying fallout from the
sovereign debt crisis would boost their borrowing costs. The
rating company also cited ebbing prospects for growth.  Holdings of Treasuries  Total overseas holdings of U.S. government debt rose 2
percent in August to a record $4.57 trillion, U.S. Treasury data
showed. Foreign holdings of Treasuries have increased 3.1
percent in the first 8 months, the smallest gain since 2006.  China , the largest foreign lender to the U.S., reduced its
holdings of Treasuries by $36.5 billion, the most since at least
2000, according to Treasury data. China’s holdings of longer-
term notes and bonds declined 3.5 percent to $1.123 trillion,
while its position in shorter-term bills rose by $3.9 billion to
$14 billion, the data show.  Japan , the second largest foreign creditor to the U.S.,
boosted its holdings in Treasuries 2.4 percent to a record
$936.6 billion.  Net buying of U.S. long-term equities, notes and bonds
totaled $57.9 billion during the month, compared with net buying
of $9.1 billion in July, Treasury statistics showed.  The Fed purchased $2.502 billion of Treasuries today
maturing from February 2036 to May 2041 as part of its program
to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce borrowing costs
further and counter risks of a recession.  Producer Prices  U.S. government securities erased gains earlier after Labor
Department data showed the  producer price index  climbed 0.8
percent, the most in five months, after no change in August.
Economists projected a 0.2 percent gain.  Consumer prices increased 3.9 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 3.8 percent rise in August, according to the
median forecast before tomorrow’s report from the government.  The difference between yields on two-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
narrowed to 1.35 percentage points from this year’s high of 2.70
percentage points in April.  Not Final Step  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told lawmakers at a
gathering of her Christian Democrat caucus that a European Union
summit in five days will mark an important step, though not the
final one, in solving the euro-area debt crisis, a participant
at the meeting said.  U.S. bonds climbed yesterday after a spokesman for Merkel
said “dreams” of an imminent resolution weren’t likely to be
fulfilled at the summit, where the rescue program called the
European Financial Stability Facility is on the agenda.  France ’s financial position has weakened because of the
global financial and economic crisis and the potential for
additional liabilities stemming from Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis, Moody’s said yesterday in its statement. The New York
ratings company said it will monitor and assess its “stable”
outlook on France’s debt over the next three months.  “Good sentiment regarding progress in Europe has been
fleeting, as there are still a lot of questions about where
Europe is going,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New
York of government and agency debt trading at R.W. Pressprich &
Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional
investors.  ‘Wouldn’t Be Caught Dead’  Leon Cooperman , chairman of the hedge fund Omega Advisors
Inc., said investors should avoid Treasuries after yields
dropped to record lows. The  U.S. economy  will avoid a recession
and American stocks offer “appealing valuations,” he said.  “I wouldn’t be caught dead owning a U.S. government
bond,” Cooperman said today during a presentation at the Value
Investing Congress in New York.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries declined to a record low of
1.67 percent on Sept. 23, while two-year notes touched 0.14
percent on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  