-- 
Treasuries Decline on Speculation Europeans Making Progress on Debt Crisis

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-10-18T21:07:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/treasuries-erase-gains-on-report-europeans-agree-to-rescue-fund.html
Yields on 30-year Treasury bonds
rose on speculation European leaders are moving closer to
agreement on plans to stem contagion from the region’s debt
crisis, cutting demand for the safety of government securities.  Treasuries erased gains after the  Guardian newspaper  in the
U.K. reported that France and  Germany  have reached agreement to
boost a euro-zone rescue fund to 2 trillion euros ($2.8
trillion). A spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
declined to comment on the report. Yields had dropped to one-
week low after Moody’s Investors Service said late yesterday
that France’s Aaa credit rating is under pressure because of
liabilities stemming from the crisis.  “There’s been a lot of talk back and forth out of
 Europe ,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading
at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “The main focus will continue to be
towards Europe, even with the U.S. economic news improving.”  Yields on 30-year bonds rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.17 percent at 5:04 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They earlier fell to
3.05 percent. The 3.75 percent securities due in August 2041
dropped 27/32, or $8.44 per $1,000 face amount, to 111 3/32.  U.S. government debt  returned 6.4 percent during the third
quarter, according to data compiled by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data, as equities posted the biggest worldwide
losses since the last three months of 2008.  European Union leaders will meet on Oct. 23 in Brussels to
implement a resolution to the region’s debt crisis. Merkel said
earlier today that the summit will mark an “important step,”
though not the final one in solving the euro-area sovereign debt
crisis.  ‘Intensive Talks’  France  and Germany are engaged in “intensive talks” on
bolstering the European Financial Stability Facility, Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said today. He declined in an
interview to comment on the report in the Guardian, saying he
won’t comment on intermediate results of the negotiations.  The two nations have yet to agree on how to bolster the
fund as they seek to overcome technical hurdles and to complete
a plan to stem the debt crisis, said a person with direct
knowledge of the talks.  They are working on how to increase the effective power of
the fund, said the person, who declined to be named because the
talks aren’t public. Such a measure needs to be part of a
comprehensive accord to help banks and  Greece , the person said.  Italian Banks  Treasuries earlier gained as Standard and Poor’s lowered
its rating on  Italy ’s banking industry and downgraded 24 lenders
including Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA, saying fallout
from the sovereign debt crisis would boost their borrowing
costs. The rating company also cited ebbing prospects for
growth.  The turmoil in Europe has stirred up demand for Treasuries
this year, pushing the yield on the 10-year note to a record low
1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  Total overseas holdings of U.S. government debt rose 2
percent in August to a record $4.57 trillion, U.S. Treasury data
showed. Foreign holdings of Treasuries have increased 3.1
percent in the first 8 months, the smallest gain since 2006.  China , the largest foreign lender to the U.S., reduced its
holdings of Treasuries by $36.5 billion, the most since at least
2000, according to Treasury data. China’s holdings of longer-
term notes and bonds declined 3.5 percent to $1.123 trillion,
while its position in shorter-term bills rose by $3.9 billion to
$14 billion, the data show.  Japan  Boosts Holdings  Japan, the second largest foreign creditor to the U.S.,
boosted its holdings in Treasuries 2.4 percent to a record
$936.6 billion.  Net buying of U.S. long-term equities, notes and bonds
totaled $57.9 billion during the month, compared with net buying
of $9.1 billion in July, Treasury statistics showed.  The Fed purchased $2.502 billion of Treasuries today
maturing from February 2036 to May 2041 as part of its program
to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce borrowing costs
further and counter risks of a recession.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the Federal
Open Bank Committee is likely to rely more on public
communications as a policy tool as it seeks to provide clarity
about the likely future path of  interest rates .  ‘Increase Transparency’  “The FOMC continues to explore ways to further increase
transparency about its forecasts and policy plans,” Bernanke
said today in prepared remarks for a speech in  Boston . “Forward
guidance and other forms of communication about policy can be
valuable even when the zero lower bound is not relevant, and I
expect to see increasing use of such tools in the future.”  U.S.  government securities  erased gains earlier after Labor
Department data showed the  producer price index  climbed 0.8
percent, the most in five months, after no change in August.
Economists projected a 0.2 percent gain.  Consumer prices increased 3.9 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 3.8 percent rise in August, according to the
median forecast before tomorrow’s report from the government.  The difference between yields on two-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
narrowed to 1.37 percentage points from this year’s high of 2.70
percentage points in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  