-- 
Chafee Joins Christie as Rhode Island Seeks Pension Cuts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-18T22:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/rhode-island-governor-follows-christie-to-seek-curbs-on-public-pensions.html
Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Chafee, who left the  Republican Party  last year to run as an
independent, is joining New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  in
seeking to roll back benefits promised to government retirees.  Chafee, 58, elected in November after he lost a U.S. Senate
seat in 2006, wants to overhaul the state’s $7.4 billion pension
because it has only about half the assets needed over the coming
decades, according to state data. He and Treasurer Gina Raimondo, a Democrat, proposed changes including suspending
cost-of-living raises to cut the unfunded liability by $3
billion in a special legislative session today.  “The main thing is getting the economy going, getting
people back to work, getting down our unemployment levels,”
Chafee said in an Oct. 12 interview in his Providence office.
“And any time there’s a shadow over our efforts to accomplish
that lowering of our unemployment, and getting our economy
going, they need to be addressed. One of those shadows is the
unfunded liability of our pensions.”  Rhode Island aligned with states from  New Jersey  to  South
Dakota  that, since the financial crisis undercut public pension
funding, are trying to lower expenses by suspending or rolling
back annual cost-of-living increases promised to retirees. The
number grew to at least seven since courts in Colorado and
 Minnesota  rejected union claims that such changes illegally
break contracts, according to Stephen Fehr, a researcher at the
Pew Center on the States, a nonprofit group in  Washington .  ‘Essential’ Changes  Christie, New Jersey’s Republican governor, suspended
automatic cost-of-living increases earlier this year.  Adjustments meant to cover inflation would be suspended
until state and local public pensions return to fiscal health,
Raimondo said in prepared remarks to the Legislature. The
changes also begin a combined system of traditional defined-
benefit pensions and defined-contribution, or 401(k)-style,
plans, she said. The proposal also raises the  retirement age .  Chafee described changes in cost-of-living allowances as
“essential” to restoring the state system’s stability, in a
Sept. 30  letter  he and Raimondo sent to state workers. The
present system is unaffordable and doesn’t provide retirement
security, they said.  Underfunded Pensions  Thirty-three states have assets of less than 80 percent of
what is needed to pay promised benefits, a common threshold for
sustainability, according to an annual study of pensions by
Bloomberg Rankings. Median funding fell to 73.7 percent from
76.2 percent in 2009, the data show, even as the  U.S. economy 
rebounded from the longest contraction since the Depression.  “One of the few ways to get immediate savings is the cost-
of-living adjustment,” said Fehr. “You’re going to see more
states take this up.”  The proposal marks a reversal for Chafee, who was endorsed
last year by the National Education Association of  Rhode Island 
over his Democratic rival, former state Treasurer Frank Caprio,
after he told the teachers’ union that he would seek to protect
their pension benefits. The  group , which represents 11,800
educators, has since  joined  with other  labor organizations  to
fight the overhaul effort.  “I want to make sure there’s retirement security for
teachers,” said Chafee when asked about the accusation he’s
breaking a campaign promise to teachers. “That’s what I said in
the campaign and that’s what I hope to deliver.”  Magnitude Forces Action  The Legislature, controlled by Democrats, began considering
the plan today because of “the magnitude of the unfunded
liability” in the state system, Senate President Teresa Paiva- Weed said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Larry Berman, a
spokesman for Speaker Gordon Fox, who leads the  House of
Representatives , didn’t respond to a telephone call seeking
comment on the plan.  “You cannot go into the benefits of people who are already
retired,” said Paul Valetta, a firefighters’ union
representative from Cranston, who spoke on a panel about
pensions in Providence Oct. 3. “It’s illegal and immoral.”  Rhode Island already had one of the least-funded state
retirement plans in April, when the board overseeing the system
voted to lower the assumed rate of return on assets to 7.5
percent a year from 8.25 percent. The board also revised its
assumptions for retiree life expectancy.  Increased the Gap  The moves boosted the plan’s unfunded liability 27 percent
to $6.83 billion from about $5.4 billion and cut the funding
ratio, or assets as a proportion of projected obligations, to
about 48 percent from 54 percent, according to Gabriel Roeder
Smith & Co., a consulting firm hired by the board.  Unless the Legislature adopts changes, the annual cost to
taxpayers in required contributions will be about $622 million,
up 33 percent from previous estimates because of the lower rate
of return. Raimondo said the proposals made today will cut the
state’s costs by at least $3 billion over the next 10 years.  The state’s fiscal 2012 general-revenue budget of $3.14
billion increased 5.7 percent from 2011, while the total
spending including federal funds will drop by 5.6 percent this
year, to $7.7 billion, budget documents show. The year began
July 1.  The proposals would save local governments $1 billion over
10 years, Raimondo said. That includes $100 million in savings
in the next fiscal year, she said.  Central Falls, Rhode Island’s smallest and poorest city,
declared bankruptcy in August because it couldn’t afford to pay
its bills, including covering annual costs for retiree benefits.  Local Plans  Pension funding at the local level in the Ocean State is in
worse shape than at the state level, with an unfunded liability
of $2.1 billion, according to a state auditor’s report last
month. The 36 municipally administered plans hold just 40
percent of the assets needed to meet projected payments, and
that excludes benefits such as health care, the report showed.
Cities and towns have paid for such benefits on an as-needed
basis, so have set aside only $27.5 million of the estimated
$3.5 billion they will need, according to the report.  Changing benefits including future cost-of-living increases
strikes retiree Jamie Reilly, 54, as an unfair contract breach.  “I worked all my life and now you’re going to do this to
me who makes only $36,000 a year,” said Reilly, a former
secretary at the Eleanor Slater Hospital in Cranston. She
accepted an incentive offer to retire early, at 50, in June
2008.  ‘Changing a Contract’  “You’re changing a contract on me,” the North Providence
resident said in an interview. “The whole thing is wrong.”  Eight public-employee unions have sued to block earlier
attempts to curb pension costs by the Legislature, basing their
claims on contract law. The changes included raising the
retirement age, capping benefits and altering cost-of-living
increases. A Superior Court judge disagreed with the state’s
contention that the unions lacked standing in the matter last
month, permitting the challenge to proceed.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is probing
Rhode Island bond offerings, possibly over disclosure of the
state’s pension liabilities, Raimondo said in February, when the
investigation was made public. The state included information
about pensions in statements connected with securities sales.  Rhode Island general-obligation debt is rated third-highest
by Moody’s, at Aa2, and  Standard & Poor’s , at AA. S&P has a
negative outlook on the credit, citing unfunded retirement-plan
obligations among its reasons.  “We can fix this pension system or see taxes triple or
double in the coming years,” Raimondo, elected treasurer last
year, said Oct. 3 on the pension panel in Providence. “The
system is not working for anyone. It’s broken.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  