-- 
RIM Unveils New BlackBerry Operating System to Challenge Apple, Google

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-10-18T20:28:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/rim-unveils-new-blackberry-operating-system-to-challenge-apple-google.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , looking to
regain sales lost to Apple Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , unveiled a new
operating system designed to help developers create applications
for its PlayBook tablet computer and new smartphones.  The software, called BlackBerry BBX, bridges RIM’s current
BlackBerry operating system and its newer QNX platform, co-Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Lazaridis  said today. That should remove
developer “roadblocks” and make it easier for them to build
applications for RIM. Lazaridis didn’t say when the new BBX
program will be available.  “I can’t say how important you are to us,” he told the
audience of developers at the BlackBerry DevCon  conference  in
 San Francisco . “It’s a really exciting time for BlackBerry
developers.”  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, is banking on the new
software to encourage programmers to build more applications for
its smartphones and tablet computers as consumers increasingly
use mobile devices to watch video, listen to music and browse
the Web. The company’s BlackBerry phones have lost market share
to Apple’s iPhone and devices running Google’s Android software,
which offer a wider selection of applications. RIM’s PlayBook
has sold fewer units than analysts estimated.  Near Term  “It’s all great stuff but there’s little here to change
trends near term and not a lot of information on when all this
software is available,” said  Tavis McCourt , an analyst at
Morgan Keegan & Co. In Nashville,  Tennessee  who is attending the
conference. He rates RIM “market perform.”  RIM did announce that a new beta version of its PlayBook
software is now available for developers that allow them to
create PlayBook versions of their existing Android applications.
While that was expected, the company didn’t say when a dedicated
e-mail program would be available for the PlayBook.  RIM rose 3.6 percent to $23.21 at the close in  New York . It
has lost 60 percent this year.  The company had said in May that a software upgrade for the
PlayBook that has built-in e-mail, contacts and calendar
programs would come this summer. Last month, Lazaridis said RIM
would issue that upgrade in October.  Shipments Dropped  PlayBook shipments dropped by more than half last quarter
following criticisms of the tablet’s e-mail shortcomings and
lack of consumer applications. Deliveries to retailers like Best
Buy Co. fell to 200,000 units from 500,000 in the previous
quarter as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shipped 9.25 million of its market-leading
iPad.  RIM’s U.S. smartphone market share fell to 20 percent in
the quarter through August from 25 percent three months earlier,
according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  Apple rose 0.7 percentage points to
27.3 percent while Google’s Android platform climbed to 44
percent from 38 percent.  RIM didn’t give any details today as to when its first
phones built with QNX will be available. Co-CEO  Jim Balsillie 
has said in the past that the first of those would be available
in early 2012.  The company has struggled to steer discussions about RIM
away from a series of recent headaches and toward new products.
Last week, a RIM network failure that began in the U.K. spread
to several continents, leaving millions of customers without
service for days. Lazaridis last week apologized, saying the
company had “let many people down.”  Investors Involved  Toronto-based  Jaguar Financial Corp. (JFC)  this month called for
a change in management to shake up RIM’s strategy and said it
had the support of investors holding 8 percent of RIM’s stock.
Jaguar said today in a statement it had arranged a meeting with
two of RIM’s independent directors, John Wetmore and  John
Richardson , before the RIM’s legal counsel canceled the meeting.  Northwest & Ethical Investments LP in June called for a
split of the roles of chairman and CEO, shared by Balsillie and
Lazaridis. Northwest & Ethical then agreed to withdraw its
proposal shortly before a shareholder vote in July, after RIM
said it would form a committee to study Northwest’s proposal and
report back by January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  