-- 
Romania’s SIF1 May Sign Erste Agreement in November, CEO Says

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-10-18T14:10:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/romania-s-sif1-may-sign-erste-agreement-in-november-ceo-says.html
SIF Banat-Crisana SA shareholders
probably will approve on Nov. 4 an agreement to sell a minority
stake in Banca Comerciala Romana SA,  Romania ’s largest bank, to
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , Chief Executive Officer Ioan Cuzman said.  The fund, also known as SIF1, is one of four Romanian
investment funds known as SIFs that agreed to sell their 24.1
percent stake in BCR to Erste for cash and shares worth 435
million euros ($596 million). SIF1 plans to sign the agreement
“immediately after shareholders’ approval,” Cuzman said in an
interview in Bucharest today.  “I am very confident that we’ll receive the positive vote
of our shareholders to sign this agreement,” Cuzman said.
“Probably all the SIFs will get a bonus from Erste, on top of
the announced amount, because the bank didn’t pay dividends.”  Erste, eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest lender, would
increase its holding in BCR to 93.5 percent and would pay 453.9
million lei ($143 million) in cash for the SIF-held stake. The
funds will also get stakes in Erste of as much as 1 percent each
through a share swap.  Another fund, SIF Muntenia SA, said last week it already
agreed to sell its BCR stake and will get about 70 million lei
in cash, 13 million lei more than initially stated, and 2.5
million shares in Vienna-based Erste.  The other SIFs will probably agree individually on the sale
by Nov. 14, when a  shareholders’ meeting  is scheduled to vote on
a BCR capital increase worth as much as 618 million lei,
according to Cuzman.  Capital Increase  Erste Chief Financial Officer Manfred Wimmer said on Sept.
16 that the Austrian lender can support the capital increase at
its Romanian unit on its own.  “We’ll have to talk to Erste about this capital hike
because its purpose has to be clear,” Cuzman said. “I know
that the capital-adequacy ratio is not an issue, so probably
they want to have an over-financing for their operations.”  The four SIFs that signed the agreement in principle are
SIF Banat-Crisana SA, SIF Transilvania SA, SIF Muntenia and SIF
Oltenia SA. SIF Moldova SA, which was left out of the accord,
may also consider selling its stake in BCR, following
shareholder approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  