-- 
Romney, Perry Find Cain’s 9-9-9 Plan Isn’t So Simple: Ron Klain

-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 
2011-10-18T00:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/romney-perry-find-cain-s-9-9-9-isn-t-so-simple-commentary-by-ron-klain.html
Watching the other Republican
candidates struggle to combat the appeal of  Herman Cain ’s 9-9-9
tax plan, I am reminded of a Senate campaign that I worked on in
the 1980s, when our candidate was outspoken on a single issue.  Our pollster came in to brief us and said, “Sixty percent
of voters in this state identify our candidate with this one,
single issue.”  Horrified, a colleague sputtered, “How can we win if the
voters think of our candidate as a single-issue candidate?”  The pollster smiled: “You don’t understand. Yes, in the
voters’ minds, our candidate is connected with only one issue,
and isn’t yet at two -- but all the others in the field have
zero issues, and are struggling to get to one.”  Likewise, in this year’s Republican contest, Cain’s
momentum comes both from the 9-9-9 plan itself, and from his
focus on at least one clear idea -- misguided as it may be -- in
a field of candidates who have none.  This is a wake-up call to Cain’s rivals that they won’t be
able to stumble through the primaries merely by bashing
President  Barack Obama  and compiling longer and longer lists of
administration initiatives to roll back: They are going to have
to put forward affirmative proposals.  A more immediate challenge for Cain’s opponents, however,
is deciding how they will deal with the 9-9-9 plan, now that his
candidacy and his proposal have taken center stage.  Cain’s Surge  Their first approach -- just ignoring the plan -- was an
utter failure; each poll over the past month has shown Cain
rising in popularity while his opponents failed to take him or
9-9-9 seriously.  Their second approach -- slapping at the proposal with
dismissive jabs (such as  Michele Bachmann ’s comment that voters
should “turn 9-9-9 upside down” and appreciate that “the
devil is in the details;” or  Jon Huntsman ’s jibe that he
thought “9-9-9 was a pizza price”) -- likewise was
unsuccessful. Cain had his very best debate night at  Dartmouth
College  last week, and the half-hearted swipes only served to
elevate the visibility of his proposal, not take it down.  The 9-9-9 plan can’t be ignored, nor brushed aside, because
it taps into powerful sentiments among Republican voters. The
Cain campaign video promoting it is chock-full of red-meat
bashing of the  Internal Revenue Service ; in a year when anti-
government feelings are running at an unprecedented intensity,
there can be no underestimating the power of that message for
the party’s primary voters.  Lower Incomes  Cain’s plan also responds to Republican calls to lower
corporate taxes by proposing the steepest reduction of those
rates in history. It taps into the Republican belief that too
many lower-income workers “avoid” paying income taxes, and
would increase the burden on tens of millions of low-wage
families.  It scratches the Republican itch for lower taxes for the
wealthiest by cutting the federal income-tax rate on the highest
earners to a stunningly low level: A person earning $1 million a
year who now pays, on average, about $260,000 in federal income
tax (after deductions and exemptions), would pay just $90,000.  As a result, the Republican candidates -- especially the
front-runner  Mitt Romney  and the conservative establishment
candidate  Rick Perry  -- are at a decisive fork in the road:
Embrace 9-9-9, or oppose it. Neither is a very good option.  To oppose the plan in the Republican primaries is to take a
position that will be seen by the party’s voters as a defense of
the status quo, in a year when the energy and enthusiasm are
with the grass-roots, insurgent wing.  Emotional Appeal  Romney (to a great extent) and Perry (less so) are already
vulnerable among Republican voters as “insider” candidates;
standing against the most audacious “change” plan in the
Republican universe will only reinforce that perception. Trying
to pick it apart with facts and figures (a strategy foreshadowed
by some campaigns’ comments) will be likewise unavailing, given
the emotional and evocative appeal that 9-9-9 has for the
party’s base.  But conversely, if Romney or Perry embraces the plan to
gain favor with primary voters, he would court disaster in the
general election. For tens of millions of Americans making
between $40,000 and $100,000 a year, and who spend virtually
every dollar they earn on basic goods that would be subject to a
new 9 percent federal sales tax under Cain’s plan, 9-9-9 is a
massive tax increase. A typical family of four making $70,000,
paying about $7,000 today in payroll and income taxes, would owe
more than $12,000 in federal income and sales taxes under Cain’s
blueprint.  General Election  Right now, Republican primary voters who are moved by
rabidly anti-IRS, anti-government zeal are prepared to embrace
the 9-9-9 plan regardless of its effect on their personal pocket
books; in the general election, where pragmatic, non-ideological
voters are the swing bloc, the 9-9-9 proposal’s impact on
middle-class voters would be fatal.  The lift that 9-9-9 would provide to a candidate in the
Republican primaries would turn to lead in the general election.  This conundrum is why, thus far, Romney has damned 9-9-9
with very faint criticism, saying in the last debate only that
“simple answers are always very helpful, but oftentimes
inadequate.” What? Romney’s view is that 9-9-9 is “helpful”
but “inadequate”? What would be “adequate,” then? 10-10-10?
11-11-11? This vague and confusing position can’t be sustained
over the long run.  Primary Perils  Perhaps what gives Romney particular angst in dealing with
the 9-9-9 plan is the history of rough waters that have buffeted
Republican front-runners when trying to navigate the primary
season’s recurring flat-tax tidal wave.  What Romney must particularly avoid is the mess that
nominee Bob Dole got himself in during the 1996 campaign. Dole
first spent the primary season battling  Steve Forbes ’s flat-tax
plan, only to reverse himself and embrace the flat tax when he
added Jack “15 percent” Kemp to the ticket. He then distanced
himself from his running partner and relegated Kemp to obscurity
in the final month of the campaign, when it became clear that
the tax plan was a political liability.  If Romney or Perry takes a strong stand against the Cain
plan, they will make the primary race more difficult for
themselves, at a time when neither can afford to antagonize the
activist voters who dominate the process. But if they try to
make Cain’s plan their own, they are signing on to a program
that will sink them in the general-election campaign.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President  Joe Biden  and a senior adviser to President Barack Obama on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a senior
executive with a private investment firm. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ron Klain at  rklain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  