-- 
Rupee Drops Most in Week as Germany Damps Europe Quick-Fix Talk

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-10-18T12:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/rupee-drops-after-germany-damps-europe-quick-fix-speculation.html
India ’s rupee fell the most in a
week after  Germany  dismissed speculation Europe’s debt crisis
would be solved as early as this weekend, sapping demand for
emerging-market assets.  The BSE India’s Sensitive Index of shares declined after
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s office knocked down what it
called “dreams” that an Oct. 23 summit would be the last word
in taming Europe’s debt woes. China reported today that its
economy expanded 9.1 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since 2009 and less than the 9.3
percent expansion forecast by economists polled by Bloomberg.  In the short-term “global sentiment is the key driver,”
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB, wrote in a report published today. “Fundamentals
will decide winners and losers in the medium-term” with the
rupee standing to benefit from inflows into the stock and bond
markets, he wrote.  The rupee declined 0.7 percent to 49.2950 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the most since
Oct. 11. It touched 49.3575 earlier, the weakest since Oct. 12.
Foreign investors have sold $106 million more Indian equities
than they bought this month through Oct. 14, exchange data show.  Over the weekend, finance ministers and central bank
officials from the Group of 20 nations set an Oct. 23 summit of
European leaders in Brussels as the deadline for the delivery of
a final plan to resolve  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 50.03 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations for a
rate of 49.52 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  