-- 
Russia’s Otkritie to Cut 10% of Staff as Competition Increases

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-10-18T09:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/russia-s-otkritie-to-cut-10-of-staff-as-competition-increases.html
Otkritie Financial Corp., the
brokerage partly owned by  Russia ’s second-largest bank, will cut
10 percent of its staff to prepare for a worsening economy and
increased competition in its home market.  The reductions will “be done selectively,” Roman Lokhov,
chief executive officer of  London  unit Otkritie Securities and
head of global markets and  investment banking , said by phone
today, confirming a memo obtained by Bloomberg. The brokerage,
owned 20 percent by VTB Group since 2009, has already begun the
cuts, two people familiar with the matter said. They declined to
be identified as the information hadn’t been made public.  Vadim Belyaev, Otkritie Financial’s CEO, last month said
the bank may postpone an initial public offering scheduled for
2013 as Russia slips into an economic crisis that may take more
than a decade to overcome because of the country’s reliance on
energy exports. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 18 percent in the
third quarter, the sharpest slump in the period since 2008, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis threatened to derail the global economic
recovery and hurt demand for Russia’s commodities.  “It is a painful process for all of us,” Belyaev said in
the e-mailed memo to staff. “These reductions are not a
reflection of professional qualities, but rather something
compelled by the fact that some functions could be effectively
carried out by a smaller number of specialists.”  With assets of more than 150 billion rubles ($4.7 billion),
Otkritie is among Russia’s top 30 banks, according to its
website. It has offices in London and  New York  and plans to open
another in  Hong Kong  next year.  Sberbank, VTB Competition  At home, the growth of state-controlled OAO Sberbank and
VTB Group makes it difficult to win business among Russia’s
biggest companies, according to Belyaev. The two lenders, the
nation’s largest by assets, have expanded into investment
banking in recent years, with Sberbank also controlling about
half of Russia’s retail deposits.  VTB said on Oct. 14 it plans to cut 1,500 jobs over the
next two years in its regional network as part of a plan to
reduce costs by as much as 25 percent.  Renaissance Group, a Moscow-based bank that invests in
emerging markets, said on Sept. 27 that it’s cutting 10 percent
of its global workforce to “align” costs with current market
conditions. The group, which includes  Renaissance Capital , the
investment bank partly owned by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ,
is eliminating 125 jobs from its overall headcount of 1,250.  “I have a growing feeling we’ve entered a new phase of the
crisis,” Belyaev, whose fortune Forbes magazine puts at $600
million, said in an interview last month. “I share concerns
that the global crisis is a story to last. The market looks
increasingly dubious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  