-- 
Russia Seeks to Focus UN Attention on Smuggled Libyan Missiles

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-10-18T17:35:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/russia-seeks-to-focus-un-attention-on-smuggled-libyan-missiles.html
Russia, a critic of NATO’s bombing
campaign in  Libya , has drafted a United Nations resolution that
draws attention to a dangerous consequence of the conflict --
weapons smuggled out of the country for possible sale to
terrorists.  Russia’s reason for highlighting the risk of Muammar Qaddafi’s arsenal falling into the wrong hands may reflect its
anger at how NATO’s involvement in Libya has unfolded. The text
has been given only to the five veto-wielding members of the 15-
member  Security Council , said council diplomats speaking on
condition of anonymity.  U.S., Britain and France pressed for a UN resolution
authorizing a Libya no-fly zone, while Russia and  China 
abstained from the March vote that allowed “all necessary
measures” to protect civilians from Qaddafi’s forces. It did
not call for toppling Qaddafi.  “The Russians have been furious with the way that UN
Security Resolution 1973 was implemented,” said  Robert Danin , a
senior fellow for Middle Eastern and African studies at the
Council on Foreign Relations in Washington. “They now want to
highlight the dangers resulting from Libya’s regime change and
draw attention to the unintended consequences of the West’s
actions.”  The disintegration of Qaddafi’s four-decade dictatorship
has created a business opportunity for looters trafficking in
weapons taken from military stockpiles, including Russian-made
anti-aircraft missiles.  Trafficked Weapons  U.S. officials have said there is evidence that some
shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles have made their way across
the border to  Mali , where al-Qaeda in the Islamic Magreb is
active. Sudan’s ambassador to the United Nations, Daffa-Alla
Elhag Ali Osman, said weapons have been smuggled from Libya to
 Sudan , where insurgents in the western Darfur region have been
fighting since 2003.  Since the Libyan resolution in the Security Council, the
U.S. and  Europe  have failed to convince Russia and China to
again withhold their vetoes in a resolution condemning a seven-
month crackdown on anti-government protesters in Syria. The most
powerful UN body has also failed to take action on Yemen, where
President Ali Abdullah Saleh has refused to sign a power-
transfer agreement.  “One should not underestimate the degree to which Russian
cooperation in other international issues will be made more
difficult because their dissatisfaction with the Libyan
intervention,” said Danin. “To them, the West used the pretext
of a humanitarian intervention to pursue regime change. They
will not forget this for a long time.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  