-- 
S. Africa Stocks to Lag Emerging Peers in Next Year, OMIGSA Says

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-10-18T15:07:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/s-africa-stocks-to-lag-emerging-peers-in-next-year-omigsa-says.html
South African stocks will lag behind
emerging-market peers in the next 12 months after outperforming
benchmarks in  Turkey ,  South Korea  and  China  as the global
financial crisis led to an equities sell-off, according to Old
Mutual Investment Group SA.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index may rise 5 percent to
10 percent in the next year, said Peter Linley, head of Toros
Equity, which manages about 30 billion rand ($3.7 billion) in
pension and mutual fund investments for OMIGSA. That compares
with about 17 percent average growth in the past 10 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and gains of as much as
20 percent in other developing nations for the next 12 months,
Linley said, without specifying which countries.  Stocks in  Europe  fell for a second day as  France ’s top
credit credit rating comes under pressure from worsening debt
metrics and the potential for additional liabilities from
Europe’s crisis, Moody’s Investors Service said late yesterday.
That came after  German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s office
knocked down what it called “dreams” that the Oct. 23 summit
would quickly solve the crisis and  Christian Noyer , head of
France’s central bank, ruled out a ramping up of the  European
Central Bank ’s bond-buying program as part of a multi-pronged
strategy to shield countries like Italy.  “We recognize that there is further downside risk in the
market if policymakers and politicians in Europe continue to
fail to meet expectations,” Linley told reporters in
Johannesburg today. “While the South African equity market is
reasonably valued on current valuations, it remains expensive
based on long-term trend earnings.”  South Africa ’s benchmark has slumped 3.6 percent this year.
That compares with a 20 percent plunge in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of Stocks and a 15 percent drop in the Shanghai
Composite Index. Turkey’s ISE National 100 gauge has retreated
11 percent and the Kospi 10 percent so far in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  