-- 
S&P Lowers Rating on Monte Paschi, 23 Other Italian Lenders

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-10-18T17:16:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/s-p-lowers-rating-on-monte-paschi-23-other-italian-lenders.html
Standard and Poor’s lowered its
rating on  Italy ’s banking industry and downgraded 24 lenders
including  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) , saying fallout
from the sovereign debt crisis would boost their borrowing
costs.  “We think funding costs for the banks will increase
noticeably because of higher yields on Italian sovereign debt,”
S&P said in e-mailed press release. “Furthermore, higher
funding costs for both the banking and corporate sectors are
likely to result in tighter credit conditions and weaker
economic activity in the short-to-medium term.”  Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose 7 basis points to 5.867
percent today, the highest close since before the  European
Central Bank  began buying Italian bonds on Aug. 8 to try to stop
a surge in borrowing costs.  S&P lowered Monte Paschi’s rating one level to BBB+. It
also cut its Banking Industry Country Risk Assessment for Italy
to Group 3 from Group 2. S&P affirmed its ratings on 19 banks,
including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the country’s biggest lender.  UniCredit is the only large bank that hasn’t been cut since
S&P lowered Italy’s sovereign rating by one level on Sept. 19.
The rating company downgraded Italy for the first time in five
years on concern that weakening economic growth and a
“fragile” government mean the nation will struggle to reduce
the euro-region’s second-largest debt burden.  “Funding costs for Italian banks and corporates will
remain noticeably higher than those in other euro zone countries
unless the Italian government implements workable growth
enhancing measures and achieves a faster reduction in the
public-sector debt burden,” S&P said today.  S&P lowered Italy’s sovereign rating last month to A from
A+ with a negative outlook four months after the company warned
of the risk of a downgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 