-- 
Santander’s Botin Opposes ‘Indiscriminate’ Recapitalization

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-10-18T10:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/santander-s-botin-opposes-indiscriminate-bank-recapitalization.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  Chairman  Emilio Botin  warned of the risks of an “obligatory, indiscriminate”
recapitalization of European banks without a final resolution of
the sovereign debt crisis.  “Casting doubt in a general manner on the sustainability
of public debt or of the European financial system may bring us
to a ceaseless downward spiral of sovereign debt and banking
crises,” Botin said in statement based on a speech at the
bank’s headquarter outside Madrid today. It’s time to “apply
the brakes” on more regulation, he said.  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers have
pressed European Union leaders to deliver a plan by the end of
the week to avoid a Greek default and bolster  Europe ’s banks.
While some lenders affected by the European sovereign debt
crisis may need to raise capital, a forced recapitalization
would create confusion and cause credit to shrink as lenders opt
to reduce their balance sheets, Botin said.  Santander, which holds about 24 billion euros ($32.8
billion) of Spanish debt and more Uruguayan debt than Greek,
said its retail-based banking model spread across 10 main
markets means it’s less risky than lenders more reliant on
 investment banking .  “Retail banking is a key engine of economic growth,”
Botin told the conference, whose delegates included Andrea Enria, chairman of the European Banking Authority, Jose Vinals,
director of monetary and capital markets department at the
 International Monetary Fund , and  Andrew Haldane , the Bank of
England’s executive director for financial stability. The
meeting was closed to the press and the public.  Important Steps  Steps have been taken to improve financial regulation that
has helped boost capital and liquidity levels far higher than
they were at the start of the crisis, Botin said. Efforts should
be concentrated on enforcing steps already agreed rather than
embarking on more regulation, he said.  “We cannot continue to have new burdens placed on the
sector, such as new local taxes or requirements of various
types,” said Botin.  Botin also said there is a “wide international disparity”
in calculating so-called risk-weighted assets, which needs to be
addressed to help discriminate between the levels of risk and
financial strength of different banks. This “causes harm to
entities with large capital holdings and low-risk business
models, such as  Banco Santander  among others,” Botin said.  Economy Struggling  Santander’s Spanish business, which accounts for about 30
percent of the group’s loans, has been pummeled by rising
defaults and shrinking credit demand in an economy still
struggling to emerge from its worst recession in 60 years.  Banco
Espanol de Credito SA (BTO) , owned by Santander, on Oct. 11 posted an
83 percent drop in third-quarter profit.  The bank has a lower capital ratio than nine of the 11
European banks it compares itself to when awarding shares to top
executives. The core Tier 1 capital ratio for the Santander,
Spain-based lender was 9.2 percent at the end of June, compared
with 9.6 percent for Paris-based  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and 10.2 percent
for Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  