-- 
Sarkozy’s Paris Skyscraper Vision Clouded by Europe Debt Crisis

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-10-18T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/sarkozy-s-paris-skyscraper-vision-clouded-by-europe-debt-crisis.html
Paris’s  Praetorium , a seven-story
office building that opened in 2009, was hailed as the first
step in President Nicolas Sarkozy’s plan to revitalize the
city’s La Defense skyscraper district. Today, it’s still empty.  No companies were willing to lease the entire 10,000
square-meter (108,000 square-foot) building even after the rent
was cut by 12 percent. The owner,  Capital & Continental , is
trying to find renters by offering smaller units.  Sarkozy’s plan to transform the skyline west of central
Paris with bigger, energy-efficient office towers faces new
hurdles as the euro-region’s sovereign debt crisis chokes off
financing for development and discourages companies from making
costly moves. Two tower projects have been abandoned and some of
the district’s biggest tenants are moving to less expensive
areas of Paris and favoring low-rise developments.  “There will be others that fall by the wayside,” said
Patrick Leniston, head of France for building consultant  EC
Harris LLP . “There are redesign requirements on a number of
towers and developers need to stop just going for the image and
start talking to end users.”  Started  under President  Charles de Gaulle  in 1958, La
Defense grew into a hub for big corporations unwilling to pay
for large offices in central Paris, where prime rents are a
third higher and most new buildings must have a height of no
more than 37 meters (121 feet).  La Defense is about 4 kilometers (2.5 miles) from the Arc
de Triomphe. About 170,000 people work there, mostly in about 70
office towers, and large occupiers include  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
France’s second biggest bank, accountant Ernst & Young LLP and
Total SA,  Europe ’s third-largest oil company.  Steady Returns  The best offices in La Defense had a capitalization rate,
or annual rental income as a proportion of a building’s price,
of about 6 percent in the third quarter, little changed from a
year earlier,  BNP Paribas Real Estate  said. That compares with
rates as low as 4.5 percent in Paris’s central business district
near avenue des  Champs Elysees .  When Sarkozy announced his 10-year  plan  in 2006, he said
about 17 buildings in La Defense were “unmarketable.” At the
time, about a sixth of the buildings hadn’t been renovated in
the 30 or more years since they were built, according to a study
by  Ernst & Young.   The renovation plan aims to help Europe’s largest purpose-
built business district compete with  London  and other cities in
attracting multinational corporations. It allows developers to
demolish obsolete buildings and replace them with new ones that
are as much as 40 percent larger. The plan ties in with a 32.5
billion-euro ($44.5 billion)  program  of subway track upgrades
and new line construction through 2025 for Paris, the world’s
second-largest office market after  Tokyo .  European Competition  “What’s at stake is the capital’s ability to compete within
Europe,” Sarkozy said when he announced the plan. French
Minister of Economic Recovery Patrick Devedjian said the
Praetorium building was the first step toward realizing the
plan at the opening ceremony in October 2009.  That year, Sarkozy’s 23-year-old son Jean dropped a bid to
become chairman of EPAD, the planning board for La Defense,
following protests that he wasn’t qualified.  In July,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  abandoned plans to
construct a 50-story building in the area as it approached a
deadline to start construction without having secured a tenant
commitment or an investment partner. Italy’s biggest insurer may
plan a smaller building or sell the site, said Philippe Depoux,
Generali’s head of French real estate.  “Launching a speculative 90,000 square-meter tower costing
several hundred million euros wasn’t something the group wanted
to do at this moment in time,” Depoux said by telephone.  Shelved Projects  It was the second tower project scrapped since  Sarkozy
announced  the plan. In March 2010, the 71-story Signal Tower
designed by Jean Nouvel to symbolize the district’s regeneration
was abandoned because Spanish developers Medea SA and Layetana
Desarrollos Inmobiliarios SA were unable to finance the project.  A dearth of large new leases in the financial district
means lenders have little indication of the rents they might get
for new and refurbished offices. That adds to their reluctance
to finance projects with no tenant lined up.  “We’re staying away from speculative developments at
present and this is also true for La Defense,” said Roland
Fuchs, managing director for  France  at Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen Girozentrale, or Helaba. The bank has loaned about 2
billion euros backed by French real estate.  Weakening Economy  The deepening financial crisis in Europe is likely to put
pressure on the developers and owners that are proceeding with
plans to deliver about 300,000 square meters of new or
refurbished office space in La Defense by 2014. Most have
restarted projects that stalled in the 2008 credit crisis, only
to find the French economy weakening again. La Defense office
values have fallen 17 percent since the end of 2007.  The projects are expensive to start and difficult to
change, said Eric Mazoyer, managing director of Bouygues
Immobilier, which is contracted to build two of the new towers
in La Defense. Developers can spend as much as two years and 10
million euros on planning before breaking ground.  “You don’t throw that in the garbage can from one day to
the next,” he said in a telephone interview.  Comparatively expensive construction in La Defense means
high rents are needed for a project to be profitable. That’s at
odds with efforts by large tenants to cut rent costs and
concentrate operations on single sites, said Fuchs at Helaba.  Cheaper Projects Favored  Investing in less expensive buildings in areas with lower
average rents is “more attractive as a way of diversifying risk
and reducing costs both for the developer, the investor and the
bank,” the banker said.  Vacancies in La Defense fell to 5.7 percent in September
from 5.8 percent a year earlier, BNP said. That compares with a
rate of 17.4 percent for offices in the areas bordering the
district.  Tenants agreed to rent 59,000 square meters of space in La
Defense in the first half, about two thirds of the average for
the past decade, according to BNP.  Some of the district’s largest tenants are moving to
cheaper locations in the Paris area and favoring groups of low-
rise buildings. They include computer services consultant  Atos
Origin SA (ATO) ,  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR mobile phone operator and  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) ’s investment bank.  “We just don’t like towers,” Vianney Elziere, SFR’s head
of property, security and general affairs, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a vertical way of working that doesn’t allow
interaction between staff.”  SFR plans to break ground next month on a 220,000-square-
meter campus near the Stade de France soccer venue in the St.
Denis suburb. It will relocate 8,500 employees spread across
four sites including the 1970s Sequoia Tower in La Defense.  Campus Trend  Credit Agricole , France’s third-largest bank by market
value, also began moving 9,000 of its Paris workers to a campus
on an 8-hectare (19-acre) site in Montrouge in November and in
2014 its investment banking division will leave La Defense.  “There is a trend to campus sites, but it doesn’t suit all
company cultures,” said Leniston at EC Harris.  Suez Environnement SA leases 42,000 square meters in
 Fonciere des Regions (FDR)  SA’s CB21 tower in La Defense and has moved
6,000 workers spread across 15 sites into a single building.  For now, the majority of projects are proceeding because of
the shortage of modern space in La Defense.  Aviva Plc (AV/)  and Credit
Agricole’s Predica life insurance unit plan to open the new
45,000 square-meter  Carpe Diem  tower late next year. It will be
first skyscraper built under the Sarkozy plan.  “It’s a counter-cyclical bet on a market to create
value,” said Joelle Chauvin, Aviva’s head of French real estate
investment.  D2 Tower  Demolition is under way for the D2 tower backed by Societe
Generale’s development arm.  Unibail-Rodamco SE (UL)  is on site to
commence its Majunga building, while Carlyle Group LP plans to
break ground on its 82,000 square-meter Air2 tower next year.
Renovation and refurbishment work is taking place at towers
owned by Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec , Kanam Grund
KAG,  Icade (ICAD)  SA and  Allianz SE. (ALV)  At least five other new towers or
refurbishment projects are planned for the longer term.  “You have to wonder about the market’s ability to absorb
all this supply,” said Ludovic Delaisse, a partner in charge of
Paris office leasing and development at Cushman & Wakefield Inc.
Delivering the new space at the right time will be critical for
owners and developers to profit, he said.  Since most of the projects are scheduled to be delivered
during the next three years, competition for tenants will center
on rents, tenant incentives and service charges, said Olivier Wigniolle, head of Allianz’s French real estate investment arm.  ‘Question of Rent’  “There is demand, but it’s a question of rent, which lies
at the heart of it,” he said in an interview.  Allianz is removing asbestos from its Athena Tower and
plans to start renovation and refurbishment next year. The
company wants to lease the building at 520 euros a square meter
when work is completed in early 2014. That’s 20 percent less
than Beacon Capital Partners LLC’s First tower.  Average prime rents in La Defense will probably end the
year little changed at about 570 euros a square meter before
tax, incentives and service charges, BNP predicts. With tenant
incentives, the actual rent collected is as much as 20 percent
lower, Cushman estimates. Rents in the Paris region increased 3
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier.  While few doubt that President Sarkozy will leave his
imprint on La Defense, just as predecessors Charles de Gaulle
and  Francois Mitterrand  did before him, it may not be as
ambitious or as grandiose as he envisioned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 