-- 
Saudi Non-Oil Business Optimism Index Advances in Fourth Quarter

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-10-18T10:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/saudi-non-oil-business-optimism-index-advances-in-fourth-quarter.html
Saudi Arabia ’s Business Optimism
Index for the non-hydrocarbon industries increased to 60 points
in the fourth quarter from 52 in the previous quarter,  National
Commercial Bank  and Dun & Bradstreet said in a statement today.  The fourth-quarter reading for the hydrocarbon industry was
unchanged at 63, the companies said today in a statement. The
construction sector index increased to 74 in the fourth quarter
from 57 in the previous quarter, according to the statement.  The kingdom, which depends on oil for 86 percent of its
revenue, announced increases in government spending in March as
protests calling for more job opportunities and democracy
engulfed the  Middle East . The package included $67 billion on
housing and funds for the military and religious groups that
backed the government’s ban on domestic protests, and followed a
$36 billion handout announced on Feb. 23.  The outlook for Saudi Arabia’s economy is “favorable”
this year as the kingdom benefits from additional  government
spending  and increased oil revenue, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in August. Gross domestic product will increase 6.5
percent this year, compared with 4.1 percent in 2010, the
Washington-based lender said in a review of the Saudi economy.  In the non-hydrocarbon segment, 46 percent of respondents
do not anticipate any negative factors to influence business
operations in the quarter, the companies said. Fifty one percent
in the non-hydrocarbon industries intend to invest in business
expansion this quarter, compared with 48 percent in the third
quarter, according to the statement.  Fourth-quarter business optimism fell for manufacturing,
transport and communications, National Commercial Bank and Dun &
Bradstreet said. Five hundred business owners and senior
executives were surveyed for the fourth-quarter results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  