-- 
Saudi Economy, Inflation to Slow, National Commercial Bank Says

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-10-18T11:50:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/saudi-economy-inflation-to-slow-national-commercial-bank-says.html
Growth in Saudi Arabia’s economy,
the Arab world’s largest, will slow to 2.2 percent next year as
oil production declines, said Said al-Shaikh, senior vice
president and chief economist at  National Commercial Bank .  Average Saudi crude output will decline by as much as
400,000 barrels a day next year as Libyan production increases,
al-Shaikh said at a press conference today in Riyadh. Inflation
will slow to 4.8 percent from 5 percent on lower commodity
prices and a stronger dollar, he said in an interview after the
event. Jeddah-based National Commercial Bank forecasts growth of
5.8 percent this year.  Saudi Arabia increased oil output to help meet demand after
failing in June to reach an agreement with other members of the
Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries to raise
production quotas.  The kingdom produced 9.8 million barrels a day that month
and 9.6 million barrels in July, up from 8.9 million in May,
according to Saudi government data. Output was 9.4 million
barrels a day in September, Petroleum Minister Ali Al-Naimi said
on Oct. 8.  Saudi Arabia ’s average oil production next year may range
between 8.8 and 8.9 million barrels a day, al-Shaikh said.
Libya’s production will increase as “they work with more of the
international  oil companies  to expand their oil sector.”  Libyan oil output collapsed this year after protests
against  Muammar Qaddafi  in mid-February flared into armed
rebellion. The North African country may produce about 600,000
barrels a day by the end of the year, the  International Energy
Agency  said on Oct. 12. It pumped 1.6 million barrels a day
before the conflict, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  