-- 
Saudis Used 4% Less Crude in August After Burning More Gas

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-10-18T18:08:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/saudis-used-4-less-crude-in-august-after-burning-more-gas.html
Saudi Arabia ’s domestic crude oil
consumption fell 4 percent in August from a year earlier as the
country started burning more natural gas from the new Karan
field at  power plants  to generate electricity.  The country, the world’s largest crude exporter, consumed an
average 1.79 million barrels a day of oil, compared with 1.87
million barrels a year earlier, Saudi figures posted on the
Joint Organization Data Initiative  website  today showed. August
is typically the peak month for power demand in Saudi Arabia
when air-conditioners are used to cool homes and offices.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co. said in July that it started
producing more than 400 million standard cubic feet a day of
non-associated gas from the offshore Karan field to meet
domestic demand. It was the first time the company, known as
 Saudi Aramco , produced gas from an offshore field that is not
associated with the extraction of oil.  Saudi domestic oil consumption fell to 1.6 million barrels a
day in July from 1.89 million in June, as Karan gas production
started, the data show. The initiative, which is supervised by
the Riyadh-based International Energy Forum, shows data supplied
directly by governments.  Saudi Arabia, which holds the world’s largest oil reserves,
is seeking to expand the amount of crude available for export by
burning more gas in power plants. Electricity demand in the
country is growing by about 10 percent a year, or twice the rate
of economic growth, according to a July report by HSBC Holdings
Plc. The nation’s population grew 3.2 percent a year from 2004
through 2010, according to government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar, Saudi Arabia, at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  