-- 
Scene Last Night: Cheryl Henson, Bill Irwin, Gabourey Sidibe

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-10-18T14:44:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/scene-last-night-cheryl-henson-john-tartaglia-big-bird-gabourey-sidibe.html
A few hedge funders,  Isaac Mizrahi ,
and other guests at the New Victory Theater gala turned their
hands into puppets.  At their place settings were plastic rings in the shape of
a pair of eyeballs. As soon as one guest put her ring on,
everyone else followed, while the first course -- something that
looked like vegetable lasagna -- languished.  When they got bored with that, a mentalist came around
lighting wallets on fire and trapping people’s smart phones in
balloons, very much impressing gala vice chairman Emily
Blavatnik, wife of billionaire Len Blavatnik, founder and
chairman of Access Industries Holdings LLC. and owner of Warner
Music Group.  Before dinner, guests fell into fits of giggles during the
hour-long “Puppet Palooza” show in the theater. Joey, the
equine star of “War Horse,” made an appearance. So did a
prince taming a fox, in an excerpt from “The Little Prince,”
which just finished a run at the New Victory. Joey Arias, the
drag queen, danced with some tall red devils.  The program honored Cheryl Henson, president of the Jim
Henson Foundation, and a daughter of the late Muppets
mastermind. Since 1982 the foundation has supported puppetry
arts, giving grants totaling about $150,000 a year, Henson said.  Jim Henson’s legacy loomed large at the event, particularly
in video interviews with some of today’s puppetry talents, such
as  Julie Taymor , Basil Twist and Julian Crouch.  ‘Magic of Humanity’  “It’s not magical but it has the magic of humanity in
it,” said Crouch, a theater designer and director.  The gala raised $450,000 for the New Victory, said Cora
Cahan, president of The New 42nd Street, which owns the Times
Square theater. The New Victory presents shows for children and
sends educators into schools.  Retta Leaphart, a teaching artist, recalled asking a group
of children what a puppeteer was. “One child raised her hand
and said ‘It’s when a puppet cries,’” Leaphart said in another
video played during the show.  John Tartaglia of “Avenue Q” fame -- who became a Muppet
puppeteer when he was 16 -- emceed the show. Big Bird and Bill Irwin presented Henson with her award.  Big Bird was a bit confused when he first came on stage. He
said he thought he’d come to perform “Omelette” (apparently
his own version of “Hamlet”). Irwin explained they were there
to present an award to Cheryl Henson.  “Cheryl? The Cheryl Henson? She’s my good friend,” Big
Bird said. “I like that.”  Later, Caroll Spinney, who has performed Big Bird for 42
years, said he first met Cheryl when she was 4 years old.  Some people mentioned  Jason Segel ’s movie “The Muppets,”
coming out at Thanksgiving from Disney.  Cheryl Henson had 54 films on her mind, the ones she helped
curate in the “Puppets on Film” festival taking place next
month at Brooklyn Academy of Music.  One of the films is called “Kooky.” It’s about a boy
whose teddy bear comes to life.  Artist Awards  Projections of Sol LeWitt murals -- life-size photographic
reproductions printed with permission of the LeWitt estate --
spruced up Cipriani 42nd Street last night for the Americans for
the Arts National Arts Awards.  Actress Gabourey Sidibe received the Bell Family
Foundation Young Artist Award. She said her favorite piece of
art is the poster for her breakout film, “Precious,” which
hangs in her apartment.  “I collect music more than art,” Sidibe said. “My
inspiration is Nina Simone,  Kanye West , Jay-Z.”  Jennifer Lee, regional managing director for  New York 
private banking at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , said her office is
decorated with company memorabilia.  The company, which received the Corporate Citizenship in
the Arts Award, operates several Wells Fargo History Museums.
They display stagecoaches, telegraph machines -- the kinds of
things that helped the bank serve its first Gold Rush customers
back in 1852.  Guests had the chance to go home with a Polaroid shot by
Todd Eberle, whose work is often seen in  Vanity Fair . For
$2,000, Eberle offered a 20” by 24” color Polaroid, with
proceeds going to Americans for the Arts, an advocacy group.  The event drew 400 guests and raised $750,000, said
spokesman Adam Abdalla.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
 Amanda Gordon  in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 