-- 
SEC Wins Asset Freeze in Alleged Mortgage Restructuring Scheme

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-10-18T21:41:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/sec-wins-asset-freeze-in-alleged-mortgage-restructuring-scheme.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission won a court order to freeze the assets of a  Texas  man
and his company, claiming he raised at least $35 million by
falsely telling investors he was using their money to buy and
restructure pools of non-performing home mortgages.  James G. Temme, who raised the money since 2008 through his
firm Stewardship Fund LP, created false documents, made
unauthorized financial transactions and used new customers’
funds to pay off earlier investors, the SEC said in an complaint
unsealed today in U.S. District Court in Texas.  In several instances, Temme claimed to own mortgages he
never acquired or purported to transfer the same pool of
mortgages to multiple sets of investors, according to the SEC’s
complaint. Temme has been the subject of at least one state
court asset freeze and private lawsuits filed by different
investor groups, the SEC said. Temme ignored the other asset
freeze, and raised money from new investors to settle suits
filed by earlier investors, according to the SEC.  “Temme took advantage of investors who believed their
investments were helping homeowners restructure their
mortgages,” David Woodcock, head of the SEC’s regional office
in  Fort Worth , Texas, said in a statement. “In many instances,
it appears Temme was just pocketing the investments and using
the proceeds for his own illicit purposes.”  John Helms Jr., Temme’s attorney, said he is reviewing the
SEC’s filing, and that “the SEC did not give us any notice of
the motion or the hearing, so we had no opportunity to
participate whatsoever.”  The SEC is seeking unspecified financial penalties and
disgorgement of ill-gotten profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  