-- 
Second Miracle in 15 Years Needed for U.S. as Productivity Wanes

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K o w a l s k i   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-10-18T23:02:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/second-miracle-in-15-years-needed-for-u-s-as-productivity-wanes.html
The world’s largest economy may need
its second miracle in 15 years as waning productivity growth
sets the stage for slower income gains, fewer job opportunities
and larger federal deficits in the U.S.  Worker output per hour has fallen for two consecutive
quarters, the first back-to-back decline since 2008, and Labor
Department  revisions  show the measure remains below levels
typical for this point in a recovery. Going forward, business
efficiency will advance at only about half the 3.4 percent pace
during the so-called productivity miracle of 1997 to 2003,
according to economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York .  “This is not good news amid already dim prospects,” said
James Kahn, chair of the economics department at New York’s
Yeshiva University and a former central-bank economist who wrote
about the deceleration on the New York Fed’s  Liberty Street
Economics blog . “An underlying trend of slow productivity
growth has emerged, which means our baseline assumptions about
economic growth may be a little too optimistic.”  A rise in worker efficiency of 1.5 percent a year would
mean U.S. gross domestic product of $17 trillion by 2016 before
accounting for inflation, said Kahn, who worked at the New York
Fed from 1997 to 2008.  His estimate is $2.3 trillion less than the  Congressional
Budget Office  forecast of $19.3 trillion. The difference is more
than five times the $420 billion in output the U.S. lost during
the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009, Bloomberg News
calculations show. GDP was $15 trillion in the second quarter.  Contain Costs  As productivity growth fades, it will be harder for
companies to contain costs, according to  Julia Coronado , chief
North America economist at BNP Paribas in New York. Slower
growth also may stall a return to rising wages that boost
consumer spending, low inflation that makes hiring new workers
less expensive and corporate profits that propel stock values,
she added.  Given the weakness, “I would not suggest drastically
cutting fiscal policy in the near term,” said  Rudy Narvas , a
senior economist at  Societe Generale  in New York. If the
government fails to extend the payroll-tax cuts and  unemployment
benefits  that expire in December, it “could easily push the
U.S. into recession next year.” A “credible” deficit-
reduction plan also “needs to be in place for when economic
growth stabilizes,” he said.  Diminishing Demand  To offset rising expenses and diminishing demand while
productivity is low, U.S. multinationals will need to seek more
business in emerging markets such as China and  Brazil , where
they can find “low-cost production without necessarily
sacrificing quality,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment
strategist at Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC,
which manages $54 billion.  He recommends consumer-staple and industrial companies
including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,  3M Co. (MMM)  and  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) , which have growing shares of income from
emerging economies where per-capita wealth and consumer spending
are rising.  The deceleration in U.S. business efficiency contrasts with
the booming period between 1997 and 2003, when investment in
technology and a more educated workforce combined to create what
economists and investors from Nobel laureate Paul Krugman of
 Princeton University  to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  referred to as America’s “productivity miracle.”  Former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  recognized early on that
the acceleration could contain inflation, even as the economy
gained strength and unemployment stayed low.  ‘Unusual Era’  “The probability that we are in a very unusual era is
rising,” which “argues that prices are in check for a while,”
he said in the May 1997 meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee , according to the  minutes . The Fed kept its benchmark
federal funds rate between 4.75 percent and 5.5 percent from
1997 through 1999, while GDP increased an average 4.6 percent a
year.  Ben S. Bernanke  considered the gains “almost certainly the
most important economic development in the United States in the
past decade,” he said in a 2005  speech  he gave as a Fed
governor about a year before becoming chairman of the central
bank. Surges in both consumer and investment spending followed
the pickup, while employment rose and inflation remained
“fairly stable” as advancing business efficiency held labor
costs down, Bernanke said. Real disposable income rose by an
average of nearly 5.6 percent annually, Commerce Department data
show.  Budget Control  The expansion in the 1990s made it “an awful lot easier to
get the budget under control,” Michael Hanson, a senior U.S.
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, said in
a telephone interview. The growth generated more revenue, and
the annual  budget deficit  of $221 billion in 1990 became a
surplus of $236 billion by 2000.  These benefits are scarce now, as the revised Labor
Department figures underscore a loss of momentum. Worker output
per hour rose at a 2 percent annualized pace between the fourth
quarter of 2007, when the recession began, and the first three
months of 2011. The original estimate was 2.7 percent.
Productivity fell 0.6 percent and 0.7 percent in the first and
second quarters of 2011.  This negative growth is another demonstration that the boom
in the 1990s and a 2009-to-2010 burst of productivity growth
“were more temporary than the start of a marvelous new age of
invention,” Robert Gordon, a professor at  Northwestern
University  in Evanston,  Illinois , said in an e-mail. Gordon is a
member of the National Bureau of Economic Research committee
that determines the start and end  dates  for economic declines.  Rising Probability  Following the revisions, the probability that the U.S. is
in a period of low productivity growth has increased to 90
percent from 40 percent, according to the research by Yeshiva
University’s Kahn, which was co-written by Robert Rich, an
economist at the New York Fed.  The model they used, which also takes into account labor
compensation and  consumer spending , shows growth in employee
output probably will remain under 2 percent for the next five
years. The slowdown indicates that estimates underlying the
severity of the fiscal problem may “turn out to be overly
optimistic,” said Harvard University professor Dale Jorgenson.  The CBO  anticipates  potential worker output per hour will
advance an average of 2 percent a year until 2016 and then 2.2
percent annually until 2021. Forecasters combine projections for
productivity and labor-force growth to determine the extent to
which the economy can expand.  Aging Workforce  “It’s pretty clear at this stage that we are running
under” forecasts and “are likely to continue to do so,”
Greenspan said Sept. 21 in a discussion hosted by the  New
America Foundation  in  Washington . Because of the aging workforce
and lower productivity, the congressional supercommittee charged
with trimming the budget deficit by about $1.5 trillion in 10
years should cut as much as $6 trillion, he said.  “The economy can’t shoulder too heavy a burden, so you
have to design policies very carefully that will produce the
maximum benefit and help create or support industries that will
be the growth engines of the future,” said BNP Paribas’s
Coronado, who is a former Fed economist.  Output per employee hour will continue to lag behind until
companies start spending more on technology and ideas that boost
production without requiring more input, said Michael Mandel,
chief economic strategist at the  Progressive Policy Institute  in
Washington.  Business Investment  While business investment on equipment and software has
increased by an average annual pace of 13 percent each quarter
since the recession ended, Mandel calculates it’s 19 percent
below where it should be, based on the 10 year average pre-
recession trend.  That’s partly because of economic uncertainty, he said in a
telephone interview. After growing by 3 percent in 2010, gross
domestic product expanded at an average of less than 1 percent
in January-June and is projected to rise 1.7 percent for the
full year and 2 percent in 2012, based on the median estimates
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  There are signs the U.S. is gaining strength: Private
payrolls climbed 137,000 in September, and retail sales rose 1.1
percent, exceeding forecasts. U.S. companies have money to spend
on boosting productivity if the outlook continues to improve.
The amount of cash and cash equivalents on hand at businesses in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has increased by nearly 60
percent in the past four years and now exceeds $1.1 trillion,
Bloomberg data show.  “We’ve got to focus on investment in physical capital,
investment in human capital and investment in knowledge
capital,” Mandel said. “We’ve got to get productivity up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Tanzi at  
 atanzi@bloomberg.net  