-- 
Senate Republicans Press Contractor Rule Repeal, Thune Says

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-10-18T21:09:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/senate-republicans-looking-at-contractor-rule-repeal-thune-says.html
Senate Republicans, countering
President  Barack Obama ’s jobs package, are urging repeal of a
requirement the government withhold 3 percent of payments to
contractors starting in 2013, said Senator  John Thune  of South
Dakota.  The measure would be the Republican alternative to
legislation being pursued by Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
a Nevada Democrat, which would provide state and local
governments with $35 billion to hire and retain teachers and
first responders. Reid may hold a Senate vote on it as soon as
this week.  “Any time that the Democrats put amendments on the floor
that have to do with what they perceive to be the correct way to
get people back to work, we’ll be offering our types of
alternatives, and I think the 3 percent withholding repeal would
be a very good amendment for us to vote on,” Thune said of the
Republican proposal, sponsored by Senator  Scott Brown  of
 Massachusetts .  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has criticized the withholding
requirement as burdensome to businesses and its repeal is one of
the few areas of agreement between Obama and congressional
Republicans. The debate will center on how to recover the
repeal’s $11.2 billion cost to the Treasury over 10 years, as
estimated by the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.  Senate Republicans would use uncommitted federal funds --
except for those at the departments of Defense and  Veterans
Affairs  -- to pay for the repeal.  House Repeal Legislation  The House is slated to take up similar repeal legislation.
The Ways and Means Committee approved a measure on Oct. 13 that
didn’t include a specific offset to pay for the repeal.  A separate bill approved by the panel the same day could
emerge as the House’s preferred offset. That measure, which
would make it tougher to qualify for government health benefits,
would raise $13 billion over a decade.  Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican,
hasn’t said whether he would seek to combine the two measures
into a deficit-neutral legislative package.  The Senate bill is S. 1726. The House repeal bill is HR 674
and the health bill is HR 2576.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  