-- 
Serbia Adopts Revised Budget With Revenue Shift to Province

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-10-18T14:30:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/serbia-adopts-revised-budget-with-revenue-transfer-to-provinces.html
Serbia  adopted a supplementary 2011
budget, widening the deficit to 4.5 percent of gross domestic
product, to reflect weaker revenue collection as economic growth
slows.  A total of 126 lawmakers in the 250-seat legislature voted
in favor of the revised spending plan totaling 850 billion
dinars ($11.6 billion), with 124 opposition members boycotting
the measure. The new budget cuts revenue to 707.3 billion dinars
from an originally planned 724 billion dinars, leaving a gap of
142.7 billion dinars.  The budget was approved after Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic ’s Cabinet promised to pay 8 billion dinars for
investments in its northern province of Vojvodina. Deputies from
parties in that region had threatened to boycott the vote and
deprive the coalition of a majority in parliament.  Cvetkovic told parliament yesterday the budget plan is
designed to “lower this year’s public spending by 1 percentage
point of GDP” and invited opposition parties to offer ideas how
to cut spending further.  Serbia is emerging from its worst recession in a decade and
the government is trying to keep spending under control and
boost tax collection without cutting social benefits. The
government has made savings in capital investments, allowing
more spending on public wages and pensions affecting as many as
2 million voters ahead of general elections in 2012.  IMF Backing  The supplementary 2011 budget, which expands the gap from
4.1 percent, was the key for Serbia to win a 1 billion-euro
($1.37 billion) precautionary loan from the  International
Monetary Fund  on Sept. 29.  The wider deficit is in line with fiscal rules and reflects
new forecasts of weaker-than-expected economic growth. The IMF
revised down its forecast for Serbia’s GDP growth to 2 percent
from 3 percent in 2011 and to 3 percent from 4.5 percent for
2012 to reflect global economic concerns.  Policies that focus more on social priorities rather than
investment-fueled growth may cause the dinar to weaken and place
pressure on foreign currency reserves over the medium-term,
analysts at the Belgrade-based Economics Institute said.  “That endangers investments and then in two or three years
you will either restrict imports” to avoid imbalances in the
balance of payments or “heavily depreciate the dinar” and
spark inflation, said Stojan Stamenkovic, the institute’s chief
macroeconomist and one of the prime minister’s economic
advisers.  Public Debt Amendments  The dinar traded at 99.90 to the euro at 3:06 p.m. in
Belgrade according to Bloomberg data, little changed from
yesterday’s close. The currency is the fifth-best performing
currency in the world against the euro this year.  Serbian lawmakers also approved amendments to the public-
debt law allowing the government “to borrow in order to finance
its  budget deficit , liquidity gap and investments” and in case
it needs to repay debt backed by a sovereign guarantee.  The law allows local governments to issue long-term debt if
they need to finance “investment, development and other
priority programs” and if a local government fails to service
its debts, it will be deprived of cash transfers from the
central budget. To step up financial discipline, the government
also introduced monthly instead of semi-annual financial
reporting requirements for local authorities.  Sovereign Guarantees  Parliament also approved sovereign guarantees for new
borrowing totaling $185.7 million, or below 0.5 percent of GDP.
The  Finance Ministry  reported public debt rose close to the
limit of 45 percent of GDP, following a 2.7 percentage point
increase in September to 44.4 percent.  The government will back a new, 80 million-euro ($109.56
million) loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development for Kolubara coal mines, a 32 million-euro country-
wide social housing project financed by the Council of  Europe ’s
Development Bank, and a 2 billion-dinar loan from Belgrade-based
Komercijalna Banka AD for a housing development in the Serbian
capital.  Serbia will also borrow $5 million from the  World Bank 
under its South East Europe and Caucasus Catastrophe Risk
Insurance Facility, the program boosting access of homeowners,
farmers and the private sector to financial protection from
losses caused by  climate change  and geological hazards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  