-- 
Serb September Budget Gap Narrows, Public Debt Approaches Limit

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-10-18T09:51:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/serb-september-budget-gap-narrows-public-debt-approaches-limit.html
Serbia’s September budget deficit
shrank to the second-lowest monthly level this year as public
companies paid dividends to the state and value-added tax
collection increased, the  Finance Ministry  said.  The lower monthly gap was accompanied by an expansion in
public debt of nearly 3 percentage points of GDP in a single
month,as the government raised funds through a Eurobond sale.  The monthly shortfall, calculated under International
Monetary Fund methodology, stood at 2.97 billion dinars ($40.69
million). The nine-month deficit rose to 97.05 billion dinars,
the Belgrade-based ministry said on its website today.  The Serbian Parliament is expected to adopt later today a
revised 2011 budget, expanding the full-year gap to around 143
billion dinars, or 4.5 percent of GDP, from an originally
planned 4.1 percent and a later revised target of 4.25 percent.  The wider deficit, with was agreed on with the IMF before
the board cleared a new, 18-month precautionary loan program
worth 1 billion euros ($1.36 billion), is in line with  Serbia ’s
fiscal rules.  In September, revenue mainly came from VAT collection,
traditionally higher in September as economic activity gained
pace, the ministry said. Spending topped the plan as the
government had to set aside more cash to repay interest on
foreign debt.  Serbia’s total public debt, including the government’s
liabilities to creditors at home and abroad, rose 2.7 percentage
points in September against previous month, to 44.4 percent of
GDP, nearing the 45 percent limit imposed by fiscal rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  