-- 
Showa Says Full Production at $1.2 Billion Solar Plant Delayed

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-18T18:49:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/showa-says-full-production-at-1-2-billion-solar-plant-delayed.html
Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K.’s $1.2
billion solar panel factory in  Japan  has delayed full production
until the end of this year or early 2012, Chief Financial
Officer Richard Carruth said.  The factory, in southern Japan’s Miyazaki prefecture, will
be able to produce 900 megawatts annually, he said today in an
interview at the Solar Power International conference in Dallas.
That would make it the largest factory in the world making thin-
film solar panels with copper-indium-gallium-selenide.  “We’re in the tuning stage,” Carruth said. “Our lines
are all on, and we are on target in terms of cost.”  Solar Frontier, a unit of Tokyo-based Showa Shell, said
Feb. 15 that the plant had begun production and it would reach
full capacity “this summer.”  The company has created panels in a lab that are able to
turn 17.2 percent of the energy in sunlight into electricity, a
record for their so-called CIGS solar products. Solar Frontier,
which sells panels with a 12.2 percent conversion efficiency,
hopes to reach that higher rate in commercial production as soon
as possible, said Brooks Herring, vice president of
communications.  “We’re looking at some product design changes,” Herring
said in an interview today. “It’ll pull back a limited amount
of production.”  ‘Nearly Sold Out’  Solar Frontier plans to produce a total of 500 megawatts of
solar modules this year, some of which will be delivered to
projects in Japan,  Europe , the U.S. and  Saudi Arabia . “We’re
nearly sold out,” Herring said.  Solyndra LLC, the solar company that filed for bankruptcy
Sept. 6 after receiving a $535 million U.S. Energy Department
loan guarantee, also made CIGS solar panels.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s largest thin-film solar
company, uses an alternate technology. It’s made cadmium
telluride panels with conversion rates of 17.3 percent in a lab
and is working to implement those techniques at a plant in
Perrysburg,  Ohio , where it expects to deliver products with 15.3
percent efficiency in volume production.  It hasn’t said when they will be available, and the Tempe,
Arizona-based company’s average conversion rate was 11.7 percent
in the second quarter.  Showa Shell shares fell 1.4 percent to 576 yen in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 