-- 
Singapore Exchange to Expand Clearing, Settlement Platform

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-10-18T04:31:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/singapore-exchange-to-expand-clearing-settlement-platform.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  will invest
in a new clearing and settlement platform that will allow it to
expand the range of securities it can handle beyond domestic
equities, Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  said.  “We need to bring in new technology so we can add more
products and services,” Bocker said in an interview in the city
today. “The current platform we have is focused largely on
 Singapore  equities.”  The bourse is focusing on expanding its own services after
its A$8.4 billion ($8.6 billion) bid for ASX Ltd., Australia’s
main exchange, was rejected by Canberra lawmakers in April. SGX
started trading Singapore government bonds in July and the
following month it introduced a new securities trading platform,
which it touts as the world’s fastest.  Singapore Exchange , operator of Southeast Asia’s biggest
bourse by the value of shares traded on the exchange, yesterday
said first-quarter profit climbed 18 percent as fees from record
derivatives trading offset rising operating costs. Revenue from
trading futures and options climbed 26 percent from a year
earlier, while fees from equities trading were little changed.  The exchange remains open to merger and acquisitions,
Bocker said, reiterating comments made earlier this month. He
declined to comment on specific targets.  The bourse may be the object of M&A speculation because of
its market value, Bocker said in response to questions about why
the company was among exchanges named last month by KBW Inc. in
 New York . as a potential bidder for the London Metal Exchange.
Singapore Exchange’s has a market value of $5.3 billion, 1.4
times that of LSE and more than the  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 