-- 
SolarCity Hires CFO With IPO Experience, May Be Planning Public Offering

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-10-18T20:49:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/solarcity-hires-cfo-who-managed-calpine-initial-public-offering.html
SolarCity Corp., a closely held
developer of rooftop solar power systems backed by  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
and Citigroup Inc., hired  Robert Kelly  as its chief financial
officer, citing his experience at raising funds.  Kelly managed  Calpine Corp. (CPN) ’s 1996 initial public offering,
 Foster City , California-based SolarCity said today in a
statement.  Hiring someone with that background may indicate that
SolarCity is considering its own IPO, said Brian Yerger, chief
executive officer and co-founder of the renewable energy
consulting company Aerca Advisors.  “The pieces are beginning to come into place that would
potentially proceed” to an IPO, he said today in an interview.
“When you’re expanding on a national footprint, you need
cash.”  SolarCity offers solar leases for residential and consumer
clients in 11 states and Washington, D.C., and has said it plans
to expand into additional markets. It builds rooftop power
systems that it owns, often at no initial cost to customers, and
receives monthly payments for the gear and the electricity it
generates.  That model is growing in popularity and SolarCity likely
needs to raise capital to purchase more panels, said Theodore O’Neill, an analyst at Wunderlich Securities, though this isn’t
a good time for the company to consider an IPO. Solar stocks
have been battered this year and the Bloomberg Global Leaders
Solar Index has plunged 49 percent.  Unfavorable Comparisons  “You will get compared to a whole bunch of beat up stocks
and you won’t get a particularly attractive valuation,” he said
in an interview today. “There’s no point in going public.”  “Bob Kelly has raised more than $48 billion to finance
energy projects,” Lyndon Rive, SolarCity’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement. Kelley “will be responsible for
further expanding SolarCity’s finance organization to support
the company’s continuing growth.”  Jonathan Bass, a company spokesman, said Rive wasn’t
immediately available for interviews.  Google, the world’s biggest search engine company, invested
$280 million in June in a fund that finances the costs of
SolarCity’s projects. Citigroup and U.S. Bancorp have invested
in similar funds.  SolarCity didn’t receive a $275 million U.S. Energy
Department loan guarantee that was conditionally approved last
month. The company said Sept. 23 that it wouldn’t receive the
financing because the agency couldn’t complete the paperwork
before the program’s deadline at the end of last month.  The Energy Department’s loan guarantees have been
criticized by lawmakers in  Washington  after another recipient,
Solyndra LLC, filed for bankruptcy Sept. 6.  Kelly spent 14 years at Calpine, eventually becoming its
CFO. He left in November 2005, less than a month before the
Houston-based company filed for bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  