-- 
Solyndra Investor Kaiser’s Charity Giving Questioned by Senator Grassley

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-10-18T22:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/solyndra-investor-kaiser-s-charity-giving-questioned-by-senator-grassley.html
The George Kaiser Family Foundation,
the biggest investor in Solyndra LLC, may not qualify for the
favorable tax status it claims as a public charity, according to
U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley .  Grassley, an Iowa Republican, questioned the role of the
foundation started by Kaiser, an oil billionaire and a 2008
campaign fundraiser for President  Barack Obama , in backing
Solyndra. The solar-panel maker filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 6,
two years after receiving an Energy Department loan guarantee.  “The government didn’t just lose out on its investment
through the $535 million loan guarantee,” Grassley said today
at a Senate Finance Committee hearing. “It also lost out on the
tremendous subsidy it provided the George Kaiser Family
Foundation through the charitable contribution deduction.”  Donors of cash and publicly traded securities to public
charities can deduct as much as 50 percent of adjusted gross
income, according to Grassley. The percentage drops to 30
percent if the donations are made to a private foundation,
according to Grassley, who said the organization doesn’t spend
enough money on charitable endeavors.  The Tulsa, Oklahoma-based foundation Kaiser started owns
about 36 percent of Solyndra, mostly through its Argonaut
Ventures I investment fund. The foundation has said George
Kaiser wasn’t an investor in Solyndra and didn’t lobby the
administration for the loan guarantee the company received.  FBI, Congress Inquire  Solyndra of the Fremont,  California , is the subject of
inquiries by congressional committees and the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation .  “We are taking on some of the most difficult and expensive
problems in American society,” Ken Levit, executive director of
the George Kaiser Family Foundation, said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Government, at all levels, is pulling back from its
responsibilities in these areas and leaving a greater role for
the private sector.”  The foundation has started three major civic projects with
“several hundred million dollars of further obligation” and is
studying what works, Levit said. “With all of these future
commitments, we feel we are prudently preserving resource
capacity.”  ‘Supporting Organization’  The George Kaiser Family Foundation used its role backing
the Tulsa Community Foundation to convert from a private charity
to a public “supporting organization” 10 years ago, according
to Grassley.  The foundation’s “low level of support” for the Tulsa
foundation “raises serious questions” about whether it
qualifies for its favored status, Grassley said in a letter
yesterday to Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and Douglas Shulman, commissioner of the  Internal Revenue Service .  “If it had remained a private foundation, it likely would
not have been able to invest as much as it did in Solyndra or
the other private equity or hedge funds it invested in,”
Grassley said today at the hearing.  The foundation claims assets of $4 billion and has given
out less than 2 percent of its total assets in grants over three
years, or about $215.4 million, according to Grassley’s letter.
Of that, about $10.5 million was allocated to the Tulsa group.  Grassley urged the administration to tighten loopholes that
let charities avoid payout requirements. Grassley, who first
questioned the George Kaiser Family Foundation’s status in 2005,
said he had his staff take a fresh look into its finances after
Solyndra’s failure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  