-- 
Spain’s Rating Cut to A1 by Moody’s With Negative Outlook

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-10-18T21:31:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/spain-cut-for-third-time-since-2010-by-moody-s-amid-euro-zone-debt-crisis.html
Spain ’s credit rating was cut for
the third time since June 2010 by Moody’s Investors Service as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis threatens to engulf the nation.  Moody’s reduced its ranking to its fifth-highest investment
grade, cutting it by two levels to A1 from Aa2, with the outlook
remaining negative, the rating company said in a statement
today.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded Spain on Oct. 14 to its
fourth-highest investment grade after  Fitch Ratings  cut it to
the same level on Oct. 7, the day it also downgraded Italy.  Spain continues to be vulnerable to market stress and event
risk while already moderate growth prospects for the nation have
been scaled back further, Moody’s said in the statement.  Spanish, Italian and Greek bonds fell today on concern that
the euro region is struggling to contain a crisis that threatens
to trigger another global slump, as banks faced with rising
defaults lack the capital to absorb a shock in sovereign debt.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday that a European
Union summit in five days will mark an “important step,” though
not the final one in solving the euro-area sovereign debt
crisis.  The downgrade of the euro region’s fourth-largest economy’s
rating is “very bad news for Europe”, Patrick Legland, the
Paris-based head of research at Societe Generale SA, told
Bloomberg Television before the ratings cut. “Greece, we have
issues with but it will be controlled, the next step might be
far more serious, with Spain or Italy,” he said.  Spain had the best investment grade possible with all three
rating companies in January 2009, when Standard & Poor’s was the
first to cut. The country is paying more than twice what  Germany 
does to borrow for a decade even after the European Central Bank
stepped in to prop up its bond market on Aug. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  