-- 
Spain’s Rating Cut for Third Time Since 2010 by Moody’s Amid Debt Crisis

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-10-19T08:09:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/spain-s-rating-cut-by-moody-s-for-third-time-since-june-2010.html
Spain ’s credit rating was cut for
the third time in 13 months by Moody’s Investors Service as
 Europe ’s debt crisis threatens to engulf the nation.  Moody’s yesterday reduced its ranking to its fifth-highest
investment grade, cutting it by two levels to A1 from Aa2, with
the outlook remaining negative. Standard & Poor’s downgraded
Spain on Oct. 14 to its fourth-highest investment grade, and
 Fitch Ratings  cut it to the same level on Oct. 7, the day it
also downgraded  Italy .  “Moody’s is maintaining a negative outlook on Spain’s
rating to reflect the downside risks from a potential further
escalation of the euro-area crisis,” it said in a statement.
The company cited the “continued vulnerability of Spain to
market stress” that is driving up the cost of borrowing, as
well as weaker growth prospects. Spanish bonds fell.  Spanish and Italian bonds are being pummeled as European
leaders fail to convince investors they can contain the debt
crisis and shore up banks to withstand the risk of a Greek
default. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday that an
Oct. 23 European Union summit will mark an “important step,”
though not the final one in solving the sovereign debt crisis.  ‘Degree of Normality’  Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose to 5.38 percent today from
5.36 percent yesterday. Even as the  European Central Bank  has
been propping up the  bond market  since August, Spain pays more
than twice what investors demand of  Germany  to borrow for 10
years. That spread was 334 basis points today.  Spain’s Treasury said the decision wasn’t justified by the
nation’s economic data and was more due to market tension over
the euro crisis. Since Moody’s said in July any downgrade would
likely be “limited to one notch,” the government has bolstered
its credibility by including a budget-discipline clause in the
constitution, the agency said in an e-mail obtained by Bloomberg
News. Spain is committed to budget cuts and its bond auctions
have proved “resilient,” it said.  “The Spanish Treasury believes that this rating action may
be motivated more by a short-term reaction to negative news
about the euro zone debt markets than by an analysis of Spain’s
medium- and long-term fundamental outlook,” the note said.  European finance ministers and leaders are due to hold
meetings in Brussels for three days through Oct. 23. Merkel cast
doubt yesterday on the progress made in the run-up to the talks,
telling reporters in Berlin that the weekend summit, while an
“important step” that will make a “clear commitment” to
defending the euro, will not be the last.  ‘Underlying Fragility’  “Even if policy action at the euro-area level were to
succeed in the short term in returning some degree of normality
to bank and sovereign debt markets in the euro area, the
underlying fragility and loss of confidence is deep and likely
to be sustained,” Moody’s said.  A meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers and central
bankers warned last week that the crisis threatens to endanger
the world economy.  “It’s imperative that the Europeans do provide a
comprehensive framework for addressing the crisis,” said
Domenico Lombardi, a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington and a former International Monetary Fund board
member. Failure to do so, he said, will result in a spiral of
further downgrades and rising borrowing costs, “which will
trigger a fully blown fiscal and banking crisis.”  New Government  Spain’s rating would face more downward pressure if the
government formed after November elections doesn’t commit to
further measures to reduce budget deficits, Moody’s said.  “On the other hand, the implementation of a decisive and
credible medium-term fiscal and structural reform plan coupled
with a convincing solution to the euro-area crisis would trigger
a return to a stable outlook,” it said.  Spain’s Socialist government is set to lose the general
election on Nov. 20, opinion polls indicate. The opposition
 People’s Party , which has pledged deeper austerity, changes to
labor rules and an overhaul of banks, may win as many as 190
seats in the 350-seat assembly, a poll by El Pais newspaper
showed on Oct. 16.  Spain, the fourth-largest euro-area economy, had the best
investment grade possible with all three rating companies in
January 2009, when  Standard & Poor’s  was the first to cut.  Moody’s said it had lowered its growth forecast for Spain
to 1 percent “at best” in 2012, from a previous estimate of
1.8 percent, “with risks mainly to the downside.” Slower
growth makes it harder to reduce budget deficits, especially
with regional governments likely to miss their target, the
company said.  Growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter and
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said on Sept. 14
that the quarterly growth rate would remain at similar levels
for the rest of the year. The  budget deficit  for the general
government will reach 5.2 percent of gross domestic product next
year, compared with an announced goal of 4.4 percent, Moody’s
estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  