-- 
Steinhardt Pledges Picassos for Real Estate as Art Loans Surge

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-10-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/steinhardt-pledges-picassos-for-real-estate-as-art-loans-surge.html
Michael Steinhardt , the former
hedge-fund manager who has spent at least $200 million on fine
art, is using part of the collection to secure low-cost funding
for his latest real estate venture.  Steinhardt and his wife, Judy, pledged 20 paintings and
drawings, including five by  Pablo Picasso  and one by  Jackson
Pollock , as collateral for a loan from JPMorgan Chase Bank NA,
according to New York state records. David Steinhardt, Michael’s
son, said in an interview that the loan from JPMorgan’s private
bank is related to an investment in the former American Stock
Exchange building, which Steinhardt bought earlier this year.  “We had the opportunity to get some very cheap
borrowing,” said David, who says he goes by the official title
of “helper” at his father’s firm, New York-based Steinhardt
Management Co.  Steinhardt, 70, joins hedge-fund managers including  Steven
A. Cohen  and  Nelson Peltz  who have been using fine art to secure
loans. With top works fetching record prices at auctions and
borrowing costs near all-time lows, more and more ultra rich are
turning to private banks to borrow against their collections,
according to Suzanne Gyorgy, director for the art advisory and
finance group at Citi Private Bank, a unit of  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “We have seen interest in this by banks who have never
done it before,” said Howard Spiegler, the co-chairman of the
art law group at New York-based Herrick, Feinstein LLP.
“Otherwise they are going to lose relationships because a lot
of high-net-worth individuals want this kind of loan.”  Stock Exchange Building  Steinhardt and Allan Fried, an independent real estate
adviser to the former hedge-fund manager, disclosed in March
that they had purchased the former Amex site and an adjacent
building in  Manhattan ’s financial district for $65 million in
cash. At about that time, they entered into the agreement with
JPMorgan’s private bank to borrow money against some of the
family’s artwork, at rates that were much lower than those for
commercial real estate projects, David Steinhardt said.  The younger Steinhardt declined to give an update on the
plans for the project, which Fried described in a Wall Street
Journal interview published in March as converting the main
exchange building into a retail and hotel complex and tearing
down the other to make way for a 60-story residential tower.  This type of mixed-use project would likely cost at least
$250 million when the price tag for the properties is included,
according to Ben Carlos Thypin, director of market analysis for
Real Capital Analytics Inc. in  New York . David Steinhardt
declined to comment on the estimate.  Construction Loans  A real estate developer would ordinarily finance this type
of development through a two- to three-year renovation loan that
would carry a variable  interest rate  based on a benchmark such
as the London Interbank Offered Rate, also known as Libor. Banks
usually charge a significant premium to Libor for such loans
because of the risk that the development project will go awry,
leaving the lender with a half-completed building as collateral,
Stephen Brodie, the head of Herrick’s banking practice and an
expert in both art and construction finance, said in an
interview.  Some private banks are providing art loans to top clients
at 200 to 300 basis points above Libor, said  Philip Hoffman ,
chief executive officer of the London-based Fine Art Fund and
the former director of finance at Christie’s auction house. With
one-year Libor averaging about 79 basis points in February,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, it’s possible that
Steinhardt was able to finance at least a portion of his real
estate project at less than three percent. A percentage point
equals 100 basis points.  ‘Well-Heeled Clients’  “If Steinhardt was able to get this as a construction loan
for the entire mixed-use project, that would be very cheap
financing,” said Bart Steinfeld, an executive managing director
in the capital markets group at Cassidy Turley, a St. Louis-
based provider of commercial real estate services. “This is
what private banks are willing to do for their well-heeled
clients.”  Doug Morris , a spokesman for the private bank unit at New
York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , declined to comment.  Other fund managers who have secured loans by art in recent
years include billionaire Cohen, founder and chairman of SAC
Capital Advisors LP in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . Cohen, an avid
collector who recently sold a portrait of  Elizabeth Taylor  by
 Andy Warhol  for $26.9 million, pledged undisclosed “works of
fine art” to Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas under an Oct. 30,
2009, borrower security agreement, according to New York state
records.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Cohen, said that the
hedge-fund manager declined to comment on the lending
arrangement with Deutsche Bank.  Chinese Side Chairs  Peltz, the billionaire who co-manages Trian Fund Management
LP, pledged 15 works by artists such as  Henri Matisse ,  Claude
Monet ,  Edgar Degas  and Pierre-Auguste Renoir to Bank of America
NA, according to a financing statement filed in May 2009. Peltz
also secured the lending arrangement with antiques, including a
pair of Louis XV commodes, a set of four Italian white marble
busts dating as far back as the 17th century, and four Chinese
side chairs that were made around 1725, the document shows.  Anne Tarbell, a spokeswoman for New York-based Trian,
didn’t respond to an e-mail and phone call seeking comment.  “Going through the downturn in 2008, a lot of people
realized that art weathered that storm very well and is a stable
form of collateral,” said Gyorgy at Citi Private Bank. “When
you look at our client base, its savvy business people that for
the most part are using the liquidity from the art loan to
invest back in their businesses.”  Modern Artists  Steinhardt opened his money-management firm in 1967 at the
age of 26 with two friends, Howard Berkowitz and Jerrold Fine,
and during the next 28 years, its hedge fund generated average
annual returns of about 24 percent after fees. Steinhardt, who
retired from the hedge-fund business in 1995 with a personal
fortune estimated at $500 million by Forbes magazine, has been
managing his own money and making investments, as well as
collecting modern works on paper and antiquities.  In a 2007 interview, Steinhardt said that he and Judy had
given $150 million to charities and spent about $200 million on
antiquities and works by Picasso, Pollock, Paul Klee and other
modern artists. The couple is included in ‘Great Collectors of
Our Time,’ a book published in 2007 and written by James
Stourton, the chairman of  Sotheby’s (BID)  U.K., who quotes Steinhardt
saying “my wife pushed me into the second half of the 20th
century with Pollock and (Jasper) Johns.”  David Steinhardt said that the family will maintain
possession of the artwork pledged as collateral for the JPMorgan
loan. He added that the artwork represented only a portion of
the art collection.  ‘There Are Gems’  According to a  UCC financing statement  filed by JPMorgan in
July, the Steinhardts pledged three oil paintings that Picasso
created between 1922 and 1936, along with two works on paper,
including a charcoal entitled ‘Homme a la sucette’ that he drew
in 1938. The collateral also includes four works by Klee, two by
Johns, and single works by Honore Daumier, Henri Matisse, Piet
Mondrian, as well as a Pollock that, according to Beverly
Schreiber Jacoby, the president of BSJ Fine Art in New York,
once belonged to Si Newhouse Jr., the chairman of Advance
Publications Inc.  “There are gems in this group,” said Jacoby, even if as
drawings “they may not be the most valuable works by the
artists.” Jacoby, an art valuation expert who reviewed the list
of paintings and drawings pledged by the Steinhardts, estimated
that they would be able to borrow $40 million to $50 million
against the collateral.  Banks typically advance loans equaling as much as 50
percent of the appraised value of the artwork received as
security, according to Brodie and Spiegler. From the bank’s
point of view, these are personal loans based on the
creditworthiness and cash flow of the borrower, with the art
posted as collateral serving as a secondary layer of protection,
the two attorneys said.  “If he got 3 percent on his borrowing costs, god bless
him,” said Stephen Pearlman, senior managing director in the
capital markets group at Cassidy Turley. “It just shows you the
power of being a high-net-worth individual.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  