-- 
Steve Jobs, Apple Dissected by Muckraking Geek: Review

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-10-18T12:42:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/steve-jobs-gets-dissected-by-muckraking-word-spewing-hulk-theater-review.html
     Oct. 18 (Bloomberg) --“If you want to enjoy a good steak,
don’t visit the slaughterhouse,” says an American proverb
quoted in the Playbill for “The Agony and the Ecstasy of  Steve Jobs .”  In his superb one-man show at  New York’s Public Theater ,
Mike Daisey dispenses discomfort, particularly to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
shareholders and iPad and iPhone devotees, with his description
of dehumanizing factory conditions.  He also does an uncanny impression of a dot matrix printer.  A large man who embodies the physical humor of Chris Farley
and the muckraking of Ida Tarbell, Daisey tells two stories that
intertwine.  There’s the rise and tribulations of Apple co-founder Jobs,
which Daisey recounts while describing his lifelong “geekish”
Apple obsessiveness.  And Daisey gives a play-by-play of his trip to Shenzhen in
southern  China , where he posed as a businessman to tour a
mammoth Foxconn Technology Group facility that constructs Apple
products. That’s the place with the spate of worker suicides
last year.  While Daisey isn’t the first Westerner to visit and talk to
Chinese workers, his descriptions are memorable. The city
“looked like ‘Blade Runner’ threw up on itself.” Breathing the
air felt “like a booted foot on your chest.”  Little Claws  He said he met employees as young as 12 years old. He met
others in their 20s whose hands had devolved into claws, their
joints disintegrated after years of 12-hour-plus days.  “It’s like carpal tunnel on a level we’ve never seen,” he
said, describing the pressure on the nerve in the wrist that
supplies feeling and movement to parts of the hand.  (On its website, Apple says it’s committed to the “highest
standards of social responsibility” and describes its efforts
to improve conditions in a 2011 report on “ Apple Supplier
Responsibility .”)  Daisey has performed the show sitting behind tables around
the country, including at the Berkeley Repertory Theatre earlier
this year. Its arrival in New York weeks after Jobs’s death is
coincidental. In a handout after the performance, Daisey accuses
every major electronics manufacturer of inhumane labor practices
and suggests that theatergoers press Apple for change because
it’s an industry leader.  At nearly two hours it could be trimmed: his funny riff
about the absurdity of power point presentations belabors the
point.  But the show may cause you to think differently about i-
gadgets.  At 425 Lafayette St. Information:
 http://www.publictheater.org , or +1-212-967-7555. Rating ****       (Philip Boroff is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 