-- 
Stop Trivial U.K. Defamation Cases Reaching Courts, Lawmaker Panel Says

-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 
2011-10-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/stop-u-k-defamation-cases-reaching-courts-lawmaker-panel-says.html
U.K. proposals to reduce so-called
libel tourism and “trivial” defamation cases should be amended
so that most disputes are resolved before reaching the courts, a
panel of lawmakers said.  Under the draft  Defamation Bill  proposed in March by
Justice Secretary Ken Clarke, lawyers will have to prove that
England or  Wales  is “clearly the most appropriate place” to
file a suit, rather than because they can win more easily than
in the claimant’s own country. The proposed legislation will
also require claimants to prove “substantial harm” before they
can sue, to cut down on the number of trivial claims.  A  joint committee  of both houses of Parliament set up to
review the bill said in a report published in  London  today that
the government should do more to ensure that cases are resolved
rapidly through mediation or arbitration.  “Defamation proceedings are far too expensive, which is a
barrier to all but the richest,” Brian Mawhinney, the
Conservative Party lawmaker who heads the panel, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Our recommendations should help minimize the
reliance on expensive lawyers and the courts, bringing
defamation action into the reach of ordinary people who find
themselves needing to protect their reputation or defend their
right to freedom of speech.”  The committee also called on judges to manage cases
efficiently by ruling on cases at an early stage “before
massive legal costs are incurred.” A stricter test should be
introduced to weed out trivial cases early on, it said.  The bill should also be changed to make it more difficult
for companies to use their financial strength and the threat of
court action to silence critics, the panel recommended. Before
bringing a claim, companies would have to obtain the permission
of the courts by demonstrating an arguable case that they have
suffered “substantial financial harm.”  The draft bill only applies to England and Wales because
responsibility for the justice systems in  Scotland  and  Northern
Ireland  is devolved to governments there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 