-- 
Sugar Shortages Extend Across Europe as Global Glut Expands: Commodities

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-19T15:56:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/sugar-shortages-extend-across-europe-as-global-glut-expands-commodities.html
At a time when the world is facing
its biggest sugar glut in at least four years, trade barriers
mean the European Union is contending with a second consecutive
annual shortage.  EU supply will fall 1.1 million tons short of demand in the
12 months ending in September, according to the Committee of
European Sugar Users, whose members include  Nestle SA (NESN) , Unilever
and Kraft Foods Inc. Global output will exceed usage by 5.32
million metric tons, Macquarie Group Ltd. predicts. As world
sugar prices fell 24 percent in the past eight months, costs in
the 27-nation bloc reached a two-year high.  The EU, once the second-biggest sugar exporter, spent about
5.2 billion euros ($7.1 billion) since 2006 to shrink the
industry after the  World Trade Organization  ruled it was dumping
subsidized supply on world markets. At the same time, the bloc
failed to scrap  import duties , leaving users with the choice of
either paying about 60 percent more than in the international
market or shunning purchase and shuttering production.  “We can’t buy sugar in the EU because there isn’t any,”
said James Lambert, chief executive officer of Northallerton,
England-based R&R Ice Cream Plc,  Europe ’s largest private-label
producer. “Anything like fizzy drinks, ice cream and bakery
products is going to rise dramatically.”  Two-Year High  White, or refined, sugar averaged 548 euros a ton in the EU
in July, the most since September 2009, according to the latest
data from the European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm.
Some second-quarter contracts cost as much as 850 euros,
Rabobank International estimates. Futures traded on the NYSE
Liffe exchange in London and deliverable globally averaged $664
(479 euros) in the period, data from the bourse show.  The gap may widen further, with Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
predicting a 13 percent drop in raw-sugar futures in the next
six months and  Barclays Capital  anticipating three consecutive
quarterly declines as the supply surplus expands.  While EU output will climb 16 percent to 17.8 million tons
in the 12 months through September, production will still be 11
percent lower than where it was seven years ago, according to
European Commission data. The EU’s policy to limit sales of
domestic production in the internal market means increased
output won’t translate into increased supplies to consumers.  U.S. Shortage  The U.S. is also facing shortages, exacerbated by trade
barriers protecting farmers. U.S. stockpiles will contract this
year to the lowest since records began in 1960 after rain and
freezes damaged the beet crop, the USDA reported Oct. 12.  Domestic prices in the U.S. were last at 39 cents a
pound, compared with 27.53 cents for international contracts,
data from the ICE Futures U.S. exchange in New York show. Sugar
is the only major agricultural commodity produced in the U.S.
that is subject to import quotas, and the USDA increased the
limit on cargoes by 45 percent this year as futures surged.  The EU shortage predicted by the European sugar committee,
whose members include Coca-Cola Co. and PepsiCo Inc., may not be
as big as anticipated should the region tip back into recession.  Euro-region growth will slow to 1 percent next year, from
1.7 percent this year, the median of 21 economists’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a 4.2 percent
contraction in 2009. EU sugar consumption fell 1.5 percent in
the 12 months ended September 2009, Macquarie estimates.  EU Options  The European Commission may try to alleviate shortages by
allowing domestic producers to divert more supply into human
consumption and away from industrial uses such as ethanol. It
authorized them to sell an extra 500,000 tons this year.  The commission may also increase the amount that can be
imported without duties, currently set at 339 euros a ton on raw
sugar and 419 euros on refined. It added 500,000 tons of zero-
duty imports this year and a further 356,566 tons were approved
at a reduced tax.  The commission plans to abolish output limits in 2015, part
of proposals for modifying the bloc’s Common Agriculture Policy,
a subsidy system that cost 58.2 billion euros in 2010.  Officials from Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle and London-
and Rotterdam-based Unilever, the maker of Ben & Jerry’s ice
cream, declined to comment. Nestle, the world’s biggest food
company, spends about 1.5 billion Swiss francs ($1.66 billion) a
year on sugar globally.  The EU is also contending with declining imports from its
preferred suppliers, which can ship to the bloc at preferential
tariffs, said Edward George, a commodities analyst at Lome,
Togo-based lender Ecobank Transnational Inc.  Drought Conditions  “A lot of southern and east African countries, which
usually ship to the EU under preferential agreements, are not
exporting as much sugar because domestic demand has been much
higher than anticipated,” he said. “These countries are also
facing shortages because of drought conditions and maintenance
outages in several mills.”  Sugar imports at preferential tariffs are forecast to be
1.7 million tons in 2011-12, compared with the 3.3 million tons
budgeted by the EU, the Brussels-based European Sugar Refiners
Association said in September. The association represents 19
refiners that use imported raw cane.  EU stockpiles stood at 1.92 million tons last month and
will probably decline to 1.24 million within a year, according
to the European Commission. At least 1.8 million tons of
inventories are needed as a buffer against smaller-than-expected
imports, the Committee of European Sugar Users estimates.  “The impact on medium and small-sized enterprises can be
even more drastic and can lead to the temporary closure of
export businesses,” said Muriel Korter, the secretary general
of the committee in Brussels. “If there are no changes in the
market and the commission does not consider taking measures to
guarantee sustainable supply, every year is going to be the same
battle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 