-- 
Swiss Stocks Drop for Second Day as Nestle, Credit Suisse Slide

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-10-18T16:02:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/swiss-stocks-decline-for-a-second-day-as-adecco-abb-logitech-shares-drop.html
Swiss stocks declined for a second
day after China reported that its economy grew at the slowest
pace since 2009, while investors speculated that the euro area’s
leaders will fail to contain the debt crisis.  Nestle SA (NESN)  declined 0.7 percent as competitor Danone
discussed selling bottled-water assets.  Logitech International
SA (LOGN) , the world’s largest maker of computer mice, dropped 2.9
percent after International Business Machines Corp. posted
third-quarter sales that missed estimates.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, fell 0.7 percent to 5,682.51 at the
close in Zurich, extending yesterday’s decline after Germany
said “dreams” that the Oct. 23 euro-area summit will resolve
the crisis are unlikely to be realized.  “The market is still responding to what the Germans said
yesterday,” said Michael Jorgensen, chief equity strategist at
Nykredit Markets in Copenhagen. “Some investors are cashing in,
selling on the back of the recent rally, which was driven by
hopes for what politicians would come up with.”  The SMI has tumbled 12 percent this year as disappointing
European and U.S. economic reports fueled concern that the
global recovery is faltering. The broader Swiss Performance
Index declined 0.6 percent today.  While Group of 20 finance ministers and central banker
governors pressed euro-area leaders to set out a strategy by the
start of next week, divisions have flared over an emerging plan
to avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion.  Greek Debate  In  Greece , a parliamentary debate begins today on another
round of austerity measures amid public protests and union
unrest. Finance Ministry workers started a 10-day strike
yesterday, complicating the government’s efforts to collect
taxes in  Europe ’s most-indebted country.  Greek lawmakers vote on the fiscal measures in two days.
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  needs to win to ease the way
for more foreign financing and stave off default.  Swiss lenders posted the largest declines on the SMI.  UBS
AG (UBSN) , the biggest Swiss lender, declined 1.1 percent to 10.50
Swiss francs.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  declined 4.7 percent to
23.66 francs as a unit of the second-biggest Swiss lender was
sued for misrepresenting risk in securitized  mortgage loans  for
which Assured Guaranty Ltd. guaranteed payments to investors.  Credit Suisse Plunges  Credit Suisse’s DLJ Mortgage Capital Inc. misrepresented
the quality of loans underlying the mortgage securities,
exposing Assured to “hundreds of millions of dollars” in
current and future claim payments, Assured units said in a
complaint filed yesterday in New York state Supreme Court.  Nestle, the world’s biggest food group which accounts for
25 percent of the SMI, fell 0.7 percent to 51.50 francs.  Danone, the owner of the Evian and Volvic brands, has held
talks to sell bottled-water assets to  Japan ’s Suntory Holdings
Ltd., three people familiar with the matter said.  China ’s economy grew 9.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009. That fell short of
the median estimate of 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
22 economists and followed a 9.5 percent increase in the
previous three months. The statistics bureau released the data
in Beijing today.  Logitech slid 2.9 percent to 7.34 francs as IBM reported
sales that fell short of analysts’ estimates for the second time
in nine quarters as revenue slowed in its software, hardware and
services businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  