-- 
U.S. Shouldn’t Ignore Iran’s Speedboat Threat: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-10-18T01:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/u-s-shouldn-t-ignore-iran-s-speedboat-threat-jeffrey-goldberg.html
This February, a U.S. Navy P-3
Orion surveillance plane, on routine patrol over the
 Persian Gulf , drew some unwelcome attention. An Iranian
aircraft made such a close pass that the American pilots
reported that they could see the faces of their Iranian
adversaries. The Pentagon was quickly notified of the near-
collision.  Two months later, the British warship HMS Iron Duke,
patrolling the waters off  Bahrain , was suddenly challenged
by an approaching speedboat. Every sailor in every Western
navy is acquainted with the al-Qaeda suicide-boat attack on
the USS Cole in Yemen in 2000, in which 17 Americans were
killed, so the Iron Duke’s crew was quickly ordered to fire
warning shots to the side of the speedboat. The two men in
the approaching craft took the suggestion to heart, and
sped away. The identities of the men are unknown, but some
British and U.S. officials reached the highly plausible
conclusion that they were part of the growing navy of the
Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps.  Yes, the Revolutionary Guards have their own navy -- a
bigger one, in fact, than  Iran ’s traditional navy. (The
traditional navy has 18,000 sailors; the IRGC’s navy
reportedly has 20,000 personnel, as well as a large fleet
suitable for waging the sort of asymmetric warfare it
favors.) And the guards -- protectors of Ayatollah Khomeini’s dystopian vision for a radicalized Muslim world,
enthusiastic exporters of terrorism, and rulers of a state
within a state -- are becoming ever more aggressive in the
Gulf.  A Regular Shadow  This year has seen a spike in such encounters. Western
ships in the Gulf are now regularly shadowed by the smaller
crafts of the Iranians. When U.S. strategists make lists of
the many challenges posed by Iran, the capabilities of the
IRGCN, as it is known, quickly rise to the top. The Gulf,
of course, is indispensable to the smooth flow of energy
resources (in 2009, more than 15 percent of oil traded
worldwide  moved  through the  Strait of Hormuz , the
chokepoint between the Gulf and the  Arabian Sea ), and the
Iranians are well aware of their ability to strangle the
global economy.  Only  Iran’s nuclear program  -- the one its leaders
claim is entirely peaceful in nature even as they develop
the technology to make triggers for nuclear weapons -- is a
greater preoccupation.  Assassination Plot  The U.S. government, and the media, is distracted at
the moment by the alleged plot by the Quds Force, a unit of
the Revolutionary Guards, to assassinate the Saudi
ambassador to the U.S. I’m ambivalent about this
extraordinary allegation. On the one hand, it seems
improbable that the Iranians, who are very good at
committing dastardly acts (witness the devastating bombings
of the Israeli Embassy and a Jewish center in  Buenos Aires 
in the 1990s) would subcontract such a sensitive mission to
a Mexican drug gang, as the U.S. has alleged. It also seems
improbable that the Iranians would risk outright war by
conducting such an assassination on U.S. soil.  On the other hand, the attorney general, Eric H. Holder, and the FBI director, Robert Mueller, aren’t the
type of men who would make this sort of accusation lightly.
And, perhaps more importantly, Iran isn’t an entirely
coherent place at the moment: The order to launch such a
reckless operation could have come from any corner of
Iran’s chaotic government, or it may have been entirely
self-initiated by a small band of radicals eager to bring
about a confrontation with the U.S.  Which brings us to the particular challenge posed by
the navy of the Revolutionary Guard: It could very well
spark a war with the West without an express order from
Tehran.  ‘An Alternative Scenario’  In a  new report  issued by the Institute for the Study
of War, Navy Commander Joshua Himes, an expert on Iranian
naval forces, suggests that this is a highly credible
scenario: “Though Iran could make a rational decision to
initiate a limited kinetic strike to further its strategic
aims, an alternative scenario exists,” he writes. “An
incident could arise from having the less professional (or
more fervent) IRGCN sailors overstep their commanders’
intent, miscalculate at a tactical level, and set off a
chain of events that could spiral into conflict.”  And if such an incident happens, there is no easy way
for the U.S. to de-escalate it: Iran recently rejected an
American offer to establish a hot line between the two
countries’ militaries.  Avenging ‘Humiliation’  Himes writes that the current commander of the IRGCN,
Adm. Ali Fadavi, led naval forces at the end of the Iran-
Iraq War, when U.S. and Iranian forces came into brief
conflict after a U.S. ship struck an Iranian mine. During a
one-day battle dubbed “Operation Praying Mantis” in April
1988, the U.S. sank an Iranian frigate, a gunboat and three
speedboats. Fadavi, according to Himes, is “driven by a
desire to avenge humiliation” from that encounter and the
U.S. military’s accidental downing of an Iranian jetliner
in 1988.  In September 2010, Fadavi laid out his vision for his
navy’s mission. According to Himes, Fadavi “contrasted the
limited number of U.S. Navy ships with the hundreds at his
disposal and emphasized speed and challenges inherent in
tracking such vessels via radar as the key elements that
allow his vessels to reach their intended target and employ
either missiles or torpedoes in large numbers.” Himes
quotes Fadavi as saying that large ships don’t have a place
in the IRGCN because “choosing large vessels means that you
play in the enemy’s court and under his rules.”  The alleged Quds Force assassination plot has moved
the U.S. and Iran closer to open confrontation. If such a
confrontation does come, it may not be sparked by an
Iranian decision to kill its enemies on American soil, or
to decisively cross the nuclear threshold. It may be
sparked by a couple of true believers in an explosive-laden
speedboat.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg , a national correspondent for The
Atlantic, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 