-- 
U.S. Stock Futures Fall After Apple Misses Estimates; Euro Slips

-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-19T00:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/u-s-stock-futures-drop-after-apple-s-quarterly-earnings-euro-erases-gain.html
U.S. stock futures fell after  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s biggest company by market value, missed
analysts’ profit estimates for the first time since at least
2004. The euro weakened after Moody’s Investors Service cut
Spain’s credit rating.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in December
declined 0.6 percent to 1,216.10 at 9:10 a.m. Tokyo time, after
the measure added 2 percent yesterday. Apple sank 6.7 percent to
$393.97. Futures on the Nasdaq-100 Index, which gets 15 percent
of its value from Apple, lost 1 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index added 0.5 percent as Japanese and Australian shares gained.
The euro depreciated 0.2 percent to $1.3728. Oil and copper slid.  Apple’s income trailed the average analyst forecast by 3.5
percent after customers delayed purchases before a new iPhone
was released. Moody’s cut Spain to A1 from Aa2, citing the lack
of a “credible resolution” to  Europe ’s debt crisis. While U.S.
equities extended gains in the final hour of trading yesterday
after the Guardian reported Germany and France agreed to boost
the region’s rescue fund, a person with direct knowledge of the
talks told Bloomberg News no deal has been reached.  “There’s just no conviction that seems to survive,”  John Carey , a Boston-based  money manager  at Pioneer Investments, said
in a telephone interview. The firm oversees about $250 billion.
“Apple’s results have disappointed some people. People are
wondering where the economy is going, what earnings will look
like and whether Europe will work its way through this crisis.”  Stocks rallied yesterday amid optimism about the European
debt crisis and after  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  posted better-than-
estimated results. Treasuries fell, while commodities and the
euro advanced.  Bank of America  Bank of America surged 10 percent to lead gains in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  yesterday after posting third-quarter
profit of $6.23 billion as  credit quality  improved and results
were boosted by one-time items, including a $4.5 billion gain
related to debt valuations.  Financial shares in the  S&P 500  surged 5 percent for the
best advance among 10 industries. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Citigroup Inc. surged at least 5.9 percent. State Street Corp.,
the custody bank, rallied 11 percent after profit increased a
stronger-than-forecast 11 percent. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
climbed 5.5 percent even after reporting its second quarterly
loss in 12 years.  Pulte Group Inc. (PHM)  rallied 11 percent to pace gains in 11 of
12 stocks in an S&P index of homebuilders, which surged 9.6
percent for its best gain since March 2009. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index climbed
to 18 from 14 in the prior month. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected the measure would rise to 15, according
to the median forecast. Readings below 50 mean more respondents
said conditions were poor.  ‘Watching Paint Dry’  “The funny thing about sitting around watching paint dry
is that it does actually eventually dry, and something similar
may finally be occurring to the moribund U.S. new home market
which has been a notable absentee from the 2 1/2-year-old U.S.
recovery,” Michael Shaoul, chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management in  New York , said in a note to clients.  The euro weakened 0.3 percent to 105.35 yen, snapping
yesterday’s gains. The downgrade of  Spain  at Moody’s, the third
reduction since June 2010, comes a day after the ratings company
said France’s Aaa credit rating is under threat.  The shared currency rose as much as 0.6 percent versus the
dollar yesterday as the Guardian said Germany and France agreed
before a weekend summit to an increase in the 440-billion euro
($604 billion) European Financial Stability Facility.  European Banks  The two nations have also supported recapitalizing the
region’s banks to meet a 9 percent capital ratio that may be
required by the European Banking Authority, the newspaper
reported. A spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
declined to comment.  Germany and France have yet to agree on how to bolster the
European bailout fund as they seek to overcome technical hurdles
and to complete a plan to stem to debt crisis, said a person
with direct knowledge of the talks.  The  New Zealand dollar  weakened 0.3 percent to 79.33 U.S.
cents, after yesterday gaining 0.5 percent.  Australia ’s currency
slipped 0.3 percent to $1.0235, while its benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index advanced 0.8 percent, rebounding from yesterday’s 2.1
percent drop. The  Nikkei 225  climbed 1 percent.  “It’s going to be relatively muted because Apple’s earnings
was clearly disappointing and a lot of nervousness around what
solution we are likely to see regarding Europe at the moment,”
said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “We will see things move a
little bit higher in  Asia , but they will remain fragile.”  Oil for November delivery retreated as much as 0.3 percent
to $88.04 a barrel in afterhours electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Futures advanced 2.3 percent yesterday
to settle at the highest price since Sept. 15, helping the S&P
GSCI Index of commodities to a 0.7 percent gain. Three-month
copper declined 0.4 percent to $7,420.75 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange, a third day of losses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  