-- 
U.S. 2-10 Yield Spread to Narrow, RBS Says: Technical Analysis

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-10-18T18:32:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/u-s-2-10-yield-spread-to-narrow-rbs-says-technical-analysis.html
The extra yield Treasury investors
require to own 10-year notes compared with two-year securities
may extend its decreases amid turmoil in Europe and slower
growth in  China , according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
citing  technical analysis .  Slow stochastics, an indicator of momentum, show the
difference between two- and 10-year note yields is poised to
narrow after the directional indicator breached a level that
indicates sentiment is extreme, said  John Briggs , an interest-
rate strategist in Stamford, Connecticut, at RBS Securities Inc.
Investors can take advantage of this trend by selling the two-
year note and buying the 10-year security, he said.  “The risk-on rally has run its course,” Briggs said in a
phone interview. “The momentum in the market is close to
signaling more flattening if the rally continues as there is
still a lot of uncertainty in the market related to  Europe  and
domestic growth.” Flattening refers to a smaller difference
between yields on securities with different maturities.  The yield spread narrowed for a second day in a row,
decreasing 2 basis points to 1.85 percentage points at 1:08 p.m.
in New York, the least in a week. A drop below 1.52 percentage
points in the spread, according to Briggs, may indicate a
further drop to 1.23 percentage points.  Two-year Treasury note yields were little changed at 0.27
percent. The 10-year-note yield fell three basis points to 2.13
percent.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  