-- 
U.S. Should Pursue Swiss Banks Only in Some Cases, Lawmaker Says

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-10-18T15:18:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/u-s-should-pursue-swiss-banks-only-in-some-cases-lawmaker-says.html
U.S. officials should only be able
to request administrative assistance from  Switzerland  when banks
deliberately helped their clients to dodge taxes, the head of a
Swiss parliament’s committee said today.  “The concerned banks must have taken active steps,” Eugen
David, president of the  Foreign Affairs Committee  of the upper
house, said at a press briefing in the capital Bern after a
hearing with representatives of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Julius
Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  and  Basler Kantonalbank. (BSKP)  “Just having U.S.
client accounts isn’t enough.”  Switzerland, the world’s biggest center for offshore
wealth, is seeking a settlement with the U.S. on untaxed assets
by American clients in Swiss banks’ accounts. The country wants
to strike a deal based on two double-taxation agreements from
1996 and 2009 in a bid to prevent lenders from being sued.  After being signed by both countries, the new agreement
will need approval by the  U.S. Senate . An amendment to existing
tax treaties, which was submitted by the Swiss government, needs
backing by the country’s lawmakers.  An invitation to travel to Switzerland by a bank employee
to discuss tax matters falls under the definition of active aid,
David said.  The lawmaker declined to elaborate on whether so-called
group requests also should be included in the amendment to the
new agreement. In its amendment, submitted to lawmakers in
August, the government seeks to clarify that group requests
should be allowed under the new double-taxation agreement.  David mainly supports the government’s plan, while the
proposals need to be more precise, he added.  Swiss banks didn’t always realize that the U.S. has been
tightening rules for offshore asset management since 2001, David
said. They “haven’t always been aware of the risks involved,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  