-- 
U.S. September Producer Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-10-18T12:31:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/u-s-september-producer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
U.S. producer price report for Sept. released by the Labor
Department.  PRODUCER PRICE INDEXES - SEPTEMBER 2011  The Producer Price Index for finished goods rose 0.8 percent
in September, seasonally adjusted, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics  reported today. Finished goods prices were
unchanged in August and increased 0.2 percent in July. At the
earlier stages of processing, prices received by manufacturers
of intermediate goods moved up 0.6 percent in September, and
the crude goods index advanced 2.8 percent. On an unadjusted
basis, prices for finished goods climbed 6.9 percent for the
12 months ended September 2011.  Stage-of-Processing Analysis  Finished goods  In September, the increase in the index for finished goods was
broad based, with prices for finished energy goods rising 2.3
percent, the index for finished goods less foods and energy
moving up 0.2 percent, and prices for finished consumer foods
advancing 0.6 percent.  Finished energy:  The index for finished energy goods advanced
2.3 percent in September after decreasing in each of the
previous three months. Nearly seventy percent of this rise can
be attributed to the gasoline index, which increased 4.2
percent. Higher prices for liquefied petroleum gas and diesel
fuel also were factors in the rise in the finished energy
goods index.  Finished core:  The index for finished goods less foods and
energy moved up 0.2 percent in September, the tenth straight
increase. In September, one-third of the advance can be traced
to prices for light motor trucks, which rose 0.6 percent.
Higher prices for household detergents also contributed to the
increase in the finished core index.  Finished foods:  Prices for finished consumer foods climbed
0.6 percent in September, the fourth consecutive monthly
increase. Accounting for over eighty percent of the September
advance, prices for fresh and dry vegetables increased 10.0
percent.  Intermediate goods  The  Producer Price Index  for intermediate materials, supplies,
and components climbed 0.6 percent in September after falling
0.5 percent in August. Over two-thirds of this broad-based
advance can be traced to prices for intermediate energy goods,
which rose 1.7 percent in September. The indexes for
intermediate goods less foods and energy and for intermediate
foods and feeds also contributed to the increase in
intermediate goods prices, moving up 0.2 percent and 0.9
percent, respectively. For the 12 months ending September
2011, the intermediate goods index jumped 10.5 percent.  Intermediate energy:  Prices for intermediate energy goods
increased 1.7 percent in September following a 2.3-percent
drop in August. A major factor in this rise was the index for
 diesel fuel , which rose 7.3 percent. Higher prices for
gasoline and liquefied petroleum gas also were significant
contributors in the advance in the intermediate energy goods
index. (See table 2.)  Intermediate core:  The index for intermediate goods less
foods and energy moved up 0.2 percent in September after
edging down 0.1 percent in August. Leading this increase,
prices for primary basic organic chemicals rose 2.4 percent in
September. An advance in the index for plastic resins and
materials also contributed to higher intermediate core prices.  Intermediate foods:  The index for intermediate foods and
feeds climbed 0.9 percent in September, the fourth straight
advance. A 3.2-percent increase in prices for prepared animal
feeds accounted for over eighty percent of the September rise
in the intermediate foods index.  Crude goods  The Producer Price Index for crude materials for further
processing moved up 2.8 percent in September. For the 3-month
period ending in September, prices for crude materials
advanced 1.8 percent following a 1.1-percent decrease from
March to June. In September, the monthly increase in the crude
goods index is mostly attributable to prices for crude energy
materials, which jumped 7.7 percent. Also contributing to the
September climb was the index for crude nonfood materials less
energy, which advanced 1.0 percent. By contrast, prices for
crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs moved down 0.9 percent.  Crude energy:  The index for crude energy materials rose 7.7
percent in September. From June to September, prices for crude
energy materials declined 0.5 percent subsequent to a 5.1-
percent decrease for the three months ending in June. The
monthly advance in September was led by a 23.0-percent jump in
the crude petroleum index. Higher prices for coal also were a
factor in the rise in the crude energy index.  Crude core:  The index for crude nonfood materials less energy
rose 1.0 percent in September. For the 3 months ending in
September, crude core prices advanced 3.3 percent after
climbing 2.5 percent from March to June. In September, over
eighty-five percent of the monthly increase is attributable to
the gold ore index, which rose 8.4 percent. A rise in raw
cotton prices also contributed to the advance in the crude
core index.  Crude foods:  The index for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs
fell 0.9 percent in September. From June to September, prices
for crude foods moved up 2.9 percent following a 1.4-percent
increase for the 3-month period ending in June. A major factor
in the September monthly decrease was a 7.4-percent decline in
the fluid milk index. Lower prices for slaughter hogs also
contributed to the crude foods decrease.  Services Analysis  Trade industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output
of total trade industries inched up 0.1 percent in September,
the second consecutive increase. (Trade indexes measure
changes in margins received by wholesalers and retailers.)
Leading the September advance were margins received by
clothing stores, which moved up 11.1 percent. Higher margins
received by merchant wholesalers of nondurable goods and
discount department stores also were factors in the rise in
the total trade industries index.  Transportation and warehousing industries:  The Producer Price
Index for the net output of transportation and warehousing
industries declined 0.9 percent in September after increasing
in each of the last 11 months. Nearly all of the September
decline can be traced to a 5.7-percent drop in the index for
scheduled passenger air transportation. Lower prices for long-
distance general freight trucking (truckload) and air
transportation support activities also contributed to the
decrease in the transportation and warehousing industries
index.  Traditional  service industries :  The Producer Price Index for
the net output of total traditional service industries edged
up 0.1 percent in September, the fourth consecutive advance.
The index for the commercial banking industry led the
September increase, rising 1.5 percent. Higher prices received
by offices of physicians and by non-casino hotels and motels
also were factors in the advance in the index for total
traditional service industries.  The Producer Price Index for October 2011 is scheduled to be
released on Tuesday, November 15, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. (EST).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  