-- 
U.S. Company Credit Risk Falls on Report of Europe Debt Rescue

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-10-18T21:36:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/u-s-company-credit-risk-falls-on-report-of-europe-debt-rescue.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. credit
risk fell after the  Guardian newspaper  reported that  France  and
 Germany  have agreed to boost the European rescue fund, stoking
investor optimism that the region’s debt crisis may be
contained.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 1.9 basis points to a
mid-price of 132.6 basis points at 4:58 p.m. New York time,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically declines as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, pared an earlier climb as
the Guardian said that France and Germany agreed to boost the
European rescue fund to 2 trillion euros to resolve the region’s
sovereign debt crisis. The gauge earlier rose as high as 138
basis points on concern  Europe ’s crisis may spread after Moody’s
Investors Service signaled that France’s Aaa credit rating is
under pressure.  France and Germany are engaged in “intensive talks” on
bolstering the European Financial Stability Facility, Steffen Seibert, German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s chief spokesman, said
today. He declined in an interview to comment on a report in the
Guardian that they reached agreement on increasing the size of
the fund, saying he won’t comment on intermediate results of the
negotiations.  Contracts protecting the debt of New York-based  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  fell 24 basis points to 345 basis points,
according to data provider CMA, after the bank reported the
second quarterly loss in 12 years. Earlier the contracts climbed
as high as 385 basis points, according to broker Phoenix
Partners Group. Contracts on  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  declined 35
basis points to 355, CMA data show, after the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank swung to a third-quarter profit on higher
revenue, better  credit quality  and one-time gains.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  