-- 
U.S. Bank Credit Risk Climbs After Goldman Sachs Loss Exceeds Estimates

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-10-18T14:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/u-s-company-credit-risk-gauge-climbs-to-one-week-high-on-europe-crisis.html
Credit-default swaps on U.S. banks
climbed on concern that the slowing economy was weighing on
financial institutions’ balance sheets after  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  reported its second quarterly loss in 12 years.  Contracts protecting the debt of the New York-based company
increased 6 basis points to a mid-price of 375 basis points at
9:45 a.m. in  New York , according to broker Phoenix Partners
Group. Contracts on  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  climbed 23.5 basis
points to 413.5 as of 8 a.m., according to data provider CMA.  “Market concern over the continued impact of a slow
economic recovery is intensifying pressure on BofA and
Goldman,” Diana Allmendinger, research director at Fitch
Solutions in New York, said in a statement. In the past three
months, swaps on Bank of America have widened more than 100
percent and those on Goldman Sachs 126 percent, according to
Fitch.  Investors pushed bank credit swaps higher after Goldman
Sachs reported a third-quarter loss of $393 million, or 84 cents
per share, compared with a profit of $1.9 billion, or $2.98, a
year earlier, and  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America had net income of $6.23 billion, or 56 cents a diluted
share, skewed by one-time pretax gains including $4.5 billion in
fair-value adjustments of structured liabilities and $1.7
billion tied to changes in value of the company’s debt.  Average Climbs  Credit-default swaps on the six biggest U.S. banks had
climbed to an average of 360 on Oct. 4 on concern that bank
margins are declining and that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
will infect balance sheets, before falling as low as 248 on Oct.
12, according to CMA. The average increased to 294 basis points
yesterday.  A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk also rose,
climbing to a one-week high, on concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis may spread after Moody’s Investors Service signaled that
France’s Aaa credit rating is under pressure.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.7 basis points to a
mid-price of 136.2 basis points at 9:54 a.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, rose to the highest level
since Oct. 10. The gauge reached 150.1, the highest in more than
two years, on Oct. 3 as investors wagered that European leaders
may fail to contain the region’s fiscal strains.  Moody’s said yesterday that  France ’s debt metrics are
deteriorating, and cited the potential for additional
liabilities from the region’s sovereign debt and banking crisis.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Editors: John Parry, Pierre Paulden  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  