-- 
Undermining Bernanke Energizes Republican Candidates Joining Fed Insiders

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-10-18T19:11:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/undermining-bernanke-energizes-republican-candidates-joining-fed-insiders.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve is under
more pressure than at any point in three decades over Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s efforts to jumpstart the economy, and the
criticism threatens to undermine support for the central bank.  Mitt Romney , once a Bernanke defender, now says he would
replace him, as have  Herman Cain ,  Newt Gingrich  and other
Republican presidential contenders. Republican congressional
leaders have urged the chairman to “resist” further action.
And even some Fed presidents came out against the central bank’s
recent attempts to lower long-term interest rates.  “If you think of the Fed’s reputation, that is its key
political asset,” said  Sarah Binder , a senior fellow of
governance studies at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington.
“All of these criticisms leave a mark over time.”  Some lawmakers and economists say the U.S. central bank
shares the blame because it failed to build a consensus for its
unprecedented activism. The Fed’s own internal divisions were
underscored by three reserve bank presidents dissenting at each
of the last two meetings, the most since 1992.  And Fed officials are looking for ways to explain their
policies in greater detail, minutes of their September meeting
show. Bernanke said in a speech today at the Boston Fed’s
economic conference that the central bank “continues to explore
ways to further increase transparency.”  ‘Enormous Powers’  In less than three months, Fed policy makers have taken two
significant new steps to lower rates. In August, they said they
would hold the short-term rate at about zero for at least two
years; last month they announced a $400 billion shift of their
$2.6 trillion securities portfolio into longer-term debt.  They also made an unusual move back into what economists
call credit policy, or support for a specific segment of the
economy, by deciding to reinvest maturing mortgage and housing
agency debt back into their $871 billion mortgage-backed
securities portfolio.  Brad Miller, a North Carolina Democrat and member of the
House Financial Services Committee, said the “suspicion”
already lurking among Democrats and Republicans at the
ideological extremes was compounded by Bernanke’s activism
because the Fed supported specific banks, securities firms and
financial markets without first bringing Congress and the public
on board during the credit crisis.  The Fed “exercised enormous powers without Congress having
boo to say about it, or the American people through their
political system having anything to say about it,” Miller said.  Reason for Skepticism  The Republican criticism has come from the top. Last month,
lawmakers including House Speaker  John Boehner  and Senate
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell urged Bernanke in a letter to
refrain from further monetary stimulus, “particularly without a
clear articulation of the goals of such a policy” and “ample
data proving a case for economic action.” Americans, they said,
“have reason to be skeptical” of his plans.  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, was a supporter of
Bernanke as recently as April 12 when he told MSNBC that the Fed
chairman is “doing as good as job as he thinks he can do.”  At a Sept. 7 candidates’ debate, Romney said he would seek
a new chairman because Bernanke “has overinflated the amount of
currency that he’s created.” The Fed’s second round of so-
called quantitative easing “did not work, it did not get
Americans back to work,” Romney said.  Cain, who has led in some polls in the Republican
presidential race, said at an Oct. 11 debate sponsored by
Bloomberg News and the  Washington  Post that he didn’t “agree
with the actions that have been undertaken by Ben Bernanke” and
has new candidates in mind when his term is up.  Auditing the Fed  Texas Republican Representative  Ron Paul , another
presidential candidate, for years has called for audits of the
Fed’s monetary policy decisions. And Texas Governor Rick Perry
said in August that things could get “ugly” for Bernanke in
his state if he tried additional monetary stimulus.  “I do not recall there being a period of time when the Fed
had fewer friends in Washington,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief
financial economist at Jefferies & Co. in New York. “The
general public is not happy with what has gone on in
Washington,” either.  U.S. Representative  John Campbell , a California Republican
on Congress’s Joint Economic Committee, said the Fed is an easy
scapegoat when the economy isn’t performing well.  “It’s a nice place for people in elected office to turn to
shoulder some of the blame so that we don’t shoulder it all,”
Campbell said.  Not Since Volcker  Not since the Fed under Paul Volcker’s leadership raised
 interest rates  to as high as 20 percent in 1980 and 1981 has a
chairman been such a political target.  Democrats in Congress at the time threatened legislation to
force the Fed to lower rates. Homebuilders enraged by the
recession sent Volcker protest letters penned on lumber. At one
point, so many two-by-fours were stacked in the corridor outside
Volcker’s office that an aide complained of a sore arm from
moving them “to make room for more,” said Douglas Lee, a
former economist for Congress who now runs Economics from
Washington, which provides analysis to institutional investors.  Alan Blinder , a former Fed vice chairman, said that while
the latest protests are unlikely to force the central bank to
change course, they can’t be ignored.  “I doubt very much the Fed has pulled its punches”
because of the criticism, said Blinder, who teaches economics at
 Princeton University . Still, “the danger is there” that
political pressure could have an impact because the central bank
“is a creation of Congress.”  Criticism From Within  Unlike Volcker’s efforts to halt inflation, Bernanke’s bond
purchases and changes in communication and portfolio maturity
are aimed at boosting the economy so some of the 14 million
unemployed can find jobs. The Fed’s portfolio shift in September
helped push 30-year  mortgage rates  down to a record-low 3.94
percent on Oct. 6, and yields on U.S. 10-year notes to a record-
low of 1.67 percent on Sept. 23. Yields on the 10-year Treasury
notes stood at 2.13 percent at 1:52 p.m. in  New York .  Still, when the three Fed Bank presidents dissented in the
August and September Federal Open Market Committee meetings they
said the Fed should hold its fire. They continue to criticize
the Fed’s policies now.  “The actions taken in August and September risk
undermining the Fed’s credibility by giving the impression that
we think such policies can have a major impact on the speed of
the recovery,” Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser, who
dissented at both meetings, said during an Oct. 12 speech. “It
is my assessment that they will not.”  Curbing Dissension  In response to the dissents, Representative  Barney Frank ,
the House Financial Services panel’s top Democrat, wants to curb
the voting power of some Fed presidents. Frank said in a Sept.
12 memo published on the panel minority’s website that the Fed
presidents had “become a significant constraint on national
economic policy making.” Frank has introduced legislation
eliminating their role as voting members of the FOMC.  One reason Fed policy makers aren’t winning more popular
support is they haven’t followed their moves with detailed
explanations of how their forecasts have changed or what they
intend to achieve, said Mark Calabria, director of financial-
regulation studies at the libertarian  Cato Institute  in
Washington.  “They haven’t laid out a game plan; they haven’t been
consistent,” said Calabria, a former senior Republican staff
member at the Senate Banking Committee. “It is not even clear
that they thought through any of this in a very deep way.”  More Press Conferences  Before the August and September policy moves, the last
economic outlook the public had from the FOMC was from June,
when they were calling for growth this year of 2.5 percent to 3
percent -- about one percentage point higher than what
economists are forecasting now.  An investor searching for a rationale for the two-year
zero-rate pledge in August would come across this sentence in
the meeting minutes: “While all felt that monetary policy could
not completely address the various strains on the economy, most
members thought that it could contribute importantly to better
outcomes in terms of the committee’s dual mandate of maximum
employment and price stability.”  To be sure, Bernanke now holds press conferences four times
a year. He has also appeared before Congress 11 times this year.
The burden of explaining actions is higher with unconventional
policies and intervention in specific segments of the economy,
economists said.  “If you are doing something in the private sector that
favors one sector against another, that is a political matter,”
said  Marvin Goodfriend , a former Richmond Fed policy adviser who
is now a Carnegie Mellon University economist. “There is bound
to be conflict with fiscal policy makers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net . 