-- 
Hungary Growth to Undershoot Government Estimate, Simor Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-10-18T12:42:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/hungary-growth-may-slow-more-than-forecast-in-2012-simor-says.html
Hungary ’s economic growth next year
will probably undershoot the government’s estimate, raising the
probability that the Cabinet will fail to trim the  budget
deficit  to its target, central bank President Andras Simor said.  Growth may slow to 0.6 percent next year, compared with the
Cabinet’s 1.5 percent forecast on which the 2012 budget draft is
based, Simor told lawmakers today in Budapest. The shortfall
will probably be 3.1 percent of gross domestic product, compared
with a 2.5 percent government target, he said.  Hungary, which is rated the lowest investment grade at
 Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service and Standard and
Poor’s, is struggling to cut its budget deficit to less than 3
percent of economic output next year as slower growth erodes  tax
revenue . The Cabinet has trimmed its growth forecast from an
original 3 percent estimate.  “Simor’s 0.6 percent real GDP growth forecast for 2012
seems much more realistic now compared to the revised government
forecast of 1.5 percent,” Tim Ash, an economist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Plc in  London , said in an e-mail today.  The government may be able to narrow the deficit to its
target in 2012 if most of the reserves built into the budget
aren’t spent, Simor said. This, however, would leave the budget
unable to cope with “unfavorable” economic developments that
the country may have to face next year, he said.  The central bank, which held the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 6 percent for an eighth month on Sept. 20, has cut
its growth forecast in response to government plans to raise
taxes and said an interest-rate cut may come “only in the mid-
term” once the country’s risk premium declines.  Hungary’s credit-default swaps, a measure of the cost to
ensure government debt against default, reached a two-and-a-
half-year high of 572.295 basis points on Oct. 4. The CDS
dropped to 508 basis points on Oct. 17, making Hungary the
eighth-riskiest in the world after Ireland and ahead of  Croatia ,
according to CMA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  