-- 
Hungary Seeks Seat Among UN Powerful for Unsung Role in Libya

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-10-18T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/hungary-seeks-seat-among-un-powerful-for-unsung-role-in-libya.html
In  Libya , as a revolt against
Muammar Qaddafi’s four-decade regime turned dangerous, Hungarian
diplomats did what most others didn’t do: They stuck around.  “When everyone left, we still stayed,” Csaba Korosi,
 Hungary ’s ambassador to the United Nations, said in an
interview. “We tried to be a bridge builder, even between the
two sides.”  Long after the U.S., U.K. and  France  shut down their
embassies, evacuated their staffs and rushed to get their
citizens out of Libya, Hungary kept a presence in the capital
Tripoli. It became the diplomat of last resort for some 50
absent governments throughout the seven-month conflict.  Among  its successes  was securing the release of four
foreign journalists: two Americans, one Spanish and one British.
In August, the Hungarian embassy even managed to get Talitha van
Zon, a former Dutch model and one-time girlfriend of Qaddafi’s
son Mutassim, out of the country after she jumped from the
balcony of a Tripoli hotel trying to escape.  Humgary’s reward for such steadfastness could be a seat on
the 15-member Security Council, the UN’s most powerful body. UN
members are scheduled to vote Oct. 21 for five new council
members, who will serve two-year terms beginning Jan. 1.  The tightest race will be for the Eastern European seat,
sought also by Azerbaijan and Slovenia, to replace the nation of
 Bosnia and Herzegovina .  Hungary, an imperial power before World War I and a Soviet
satellite until the late 1980s, had no vested interest in the
North African country, Korosi said. Yet, when the Libyan
uprisings began in February, Hungary, then-head of the rotating
European Union presidency, felt duty-bound not to leave.  Others Fled  As the channel of communications, Hungary provided a way
“to rescue a lot of people and civilians from the country,”
Korosi said in an Oct. 14 interview. “We tried to speak on
behalf of all those countries that asked us to do so. We sent
messages back and forth.”  The U.S. shut down its embassy on Feb. 25, as President
 Barack Obama  prepared to sign an order to freeze assets of
Qaddafi, his family and collaborators in the first of a series
of sanctions. A day later, France and Britain closed their
missions. Germany, Italy and Spain and others followed within
weeks. Turkey, which conducted the biggest evacuation in its
history to rescue 25,000 Turks who lived and worked in Libya,
cited “great security risk” as the reason to shut its embassy
in May.  Skeleton Staff  That left Hungary to hold the fort with a skeleton staff.
Among the other countries that kept embassies operational were
China and  Russia  -- among the fiercest critics of NATO’s
military strikes in Libya -- and a handful of Qaddafi’s most
stalwart, radical allies such as Belarus, Cuba and  Venezuela .  Maja Kociancic, spokeswoman for EU foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton , said in May that the “situation is definitely
very difficult and we pay tribute to the Hungarian presidency
for the work they are doing.”  Hungary is weighing closer economic integration with
 Europe , where formerly Communist neighbors such as Slovenia, its
biggest rival for the council seat, have joined the nations
using the euro. Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , whose
government took over in May, has set a new deadline to switch to
the euro: 2020.  Europe hasn’t reached “the bottom of the economic
crisis,” said Korosi. “It will test the durability of many
countries. Some fragile societies may suffer more than in the
past years.”  UN Rivals  Azerbaijan , geographically the largest country in the
Caucasus region, is seeking a seat in the council for the first
time and is the only Muslim applicant for the Eastern European
seat. It has the second highest concentration of Shiite Muslims
after  Iran .  Slovenia, which like Bosnia was formerly part of
Yugoslavia, was the first to secede from the communist state
following the fall of the  Soviet Union  in 1991 and the only one
to meet the economic criteria to qualify for the euro.  As one of smallest and newest euro members, cradled between
Italy and Hungary, Slovenia joined the 17-nation bloc in 2007
before  Greece ’s financial debt plunged the region into a debt
crisis that threatens the existence of the single currency.  “We believe it’s going to be a tight race,” said Korosi
of his competition. “There are two very good friends of ours.
One is a neighbor.”  The countries that fled Tripoli have since returned after
rebel forces wrested control of the capital from Qaddafi
loyalists.  Libya’s ambassador to the UN praised the Hungarians’
actions during the conflict.  “I think they have played a positive role,” said  Ibrahim Dabbashi , who became Libya’s ambassador after defecting from the
Qaddafi regime in February.  Their actions have already met with some recognition on the
ground. The road next to the Hungarian embassy was renamed by
locals Hungarian Street.  -- Editor: Terry Atlas  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ; 