-- 
UniCredit’s Profumo Said to Face Investigation as Bank’s Assets Are Held

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-10-19T13:33:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/unicredit-says-very-surprised-on-asset-seizure-by-milan-court.html
Former  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  Chief Executive
Officer  Alessandro Profumo  is among 20 executives being examined
in a tax-evasion probe that led a Milan court to seize 245
million euros ($337 million) of the bank’s assets, court
documents show.  Prosecutors are examining whether UniCredit, Italy’s
largest lender, committed fraud through an international
investment plan dubbed Brontos arranged by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
according to the documents. Three people from London-based
Barclays are also under investigation, the documents show.  UniCredit was “very surprised” by the seizure and
“remains convinced that both it and its employees acted
correctly,” the Milan-based lender said in a statement. The
assets being held represent the firm’s suspected profit from
false declarations for fiscal 2007 and 2008, according to a
separate statement from  Italy ’s finance police, which conducted
the seizure.  Profumo, 54, declined to comment on the inquiry as did
Simon Eaton, a Barclays spokesman in London.  UniCredit used a tax plan named Brontos to increase the
bank’s “economic benefits,” Profumo said at the company’s
annual meeting in April 2010. The plan boosted the bank’s pretax
profit, a UniCredit spokesman said at the time.  Brontos Tax Plan  Brontos was conceived to mask interest earned on a deposit
account into dividends earned on fictitious securities, a judge
wrote in his request for the asset seizure. Interest earned on
deposits is taxed in full while dividends are taxed at 5
percent, the judge wrote.  Barclays used a Luxembourg unit to issue Turkish-lira
securities that were purchased by its Milan branch, according to
the judge. Through a series of transactions involving Barclays’s
 London  branch and the use of currency swaps, Barclays enabled
UniCredit to earn interest of about 20 percent in 2007, or five
times the amount it could have earned on the  interbank market  at
the time, according to the judge.  Vittorio Ogliengo, UniCredit’s co-head of financing and
advisory, and Barclays bankers Rupak Chandra and Stefano Filippi
are being examined, court documents show. Chandra declined to
comment, while Ogliengo and Filippi didn’t immediately return a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Barclays Capital 
“fully” supports its employees named in the probe, the company
said in an e-mailed statement.  Barclays allegedly proposed the Brontos plan to UniCredit
and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank,  Il Sole 24
Ore  reported in 2009, citing a Barclays memo. Intesa, also based
in Milan, didn’t participate in the deal, a spokesman for the
bank was cited as saying at the time.  Profumo’s Record  UniCredit, which used similar transactions in 2009 when it
was already being examined, paid the correct amount of tax that
fiscal year, the finance police said. Corriere della Sera
reported details of the probe yesterday.  Profumo, a former McKinsey & Co. consultant, stepped down
as CEO in September 2010, ending 13 years at the top of the
bank. Profumo left after clashing with shareholders over Libyan
investments in the bank and was replaced by  Federico Ghizzoni .  Born in Genoa to a Sicilian family, Profumo took the
lender’s top job in 1997 when it was known as  Credito Italiano .
He used the opening of the European markets brought about by the
euro to transform the lender into UniCredit, a bank with
operations from the U.S. to Kazakhstan. Under Profumo, UniCredit
spent about $60 billion in takeovers from 2005 to 2008.  UniCredit’s shares have tumbled 39 percent this year amid
investor concern that the European sovereign debt crisis could
engulf Italy.  Fitch Ratings  is reviewing the firm’s credit
rating, according to a statement last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  