-- 
UnitedHealth Falls After Insurer Sees Medical Costs Rising

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-10-18T20:25:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/unitedhealth-earnings-top-analyst-estimates-on-lower-costs.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest
U.S. health insurer by sales, fell 2.7 percent after the company
said medical costs are expected to increase in the fourth
quarter and 2012.  UnitedHealth dropped to $45.34 at 4 p.m. New York time
after Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hemsley said today that
costs would “trend upward.” The stock’s decline dragged down
shares of other health insurance companies.  The Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer saw a pickup in
physician visits and use of outpatient services, Hemsley said on
a conference call with analysts. Health insurers have seen their
income rise over the last year as consumers, worried by
unemployment topping 9 percent, put off elective procedures and
having babies. Now rising use, coupled with pockets of price
competition, may affect future profitability, Hemsley said.  “Caution is the appropriate tone” for 2012, the CEO told
analysts. While he said the company expects to see its earnings
increase next year, he declined to give specific numbers.  UnitedHealth’s outlook on costs weighed on rival insurers.
 WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the largest insurer by enrollment, fell 2.4
percent to $64.06.  Aetna Inc. (AET)  declined 1 percent to $37.10,
while  Cigna Corp. (CI)  dropped less than 1 percent to $43.43.  Nervous Investors  “This is a volatile market and people get very nervous
when they hear companies give cautionary warnings,” Chris Rigg,
an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “That said, I feel like Steve put a stake
in the ground and said the company’s going to increase earnings.
I wasn’t so sure before.”  UnitedHealth’s ability to monitor rising costs and consumer
demand enables the company to price products to help ensure
growth, Chief Financial Officer Dave Wichmann said in a
telephone interview. The data also have helped the company to
cut costs without harming patient care, he said.  “It’s going to be a tough year with many headwinds,”
Wichmann said. “But our added intelligence around trends means
we can keep growing, even after a year as good as this one.”  While consumers are beginning to use more  health services ,
the demand is still below historical trends, Hemsley said on the
call. The exception is Medicare and Medicaid, the national
health plans serving the elderly, disabled and poor, where
demand is close to normal, he said.  Pharmacy Benefits Investment  UnitedHealth is investing in the pharmacy benefits
management unit, OptumRX, to absorb 12.4 million members the
company is taking back when a contract with Medco Health
Solutions Inc. ends at the beginning of 2013, Wichmann said.
UnitedHealth will have spent $45 million by the end of this year
to upgrade systems and will invest “substantially more” next
year when it begins hiring workers to handle the new members.  The insurer also must spend an unspecified amount, which
may be two to three times the investment in the pharmacy
benefits unit, on upgrading diagnostic coding to comply with
federal regulations, Wichmann said. The expenditure wouldn’t
interfere with the company’s ability to do acquisitions if
opportunities arise, he said. The company has about $1.3 billion
in cash on hand, Hemsley said.  Earlier, UnitedHealth raised its 2011 earnings forecast, to
$4.40 to $4.45 a share, from a July 19 outlook of $4.15 to
$4.25. Third-quarter revenue rose 6.8 percent to $25.3 billion,
and earnings per share beat by 5 cents the average estimate of
11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Medicare Growth  UnitedHealth’s Medicare Advantage managed care plans grew 8
percent, with 30,000 new members in the quarter, the company
said. The increase indicated UnitedHealth has been able to
recruit  baby boomers  who are reaching 65, said  Sheryl Skolnick ,
an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
Overall, enrollment rose by 220,000, the company said.  UnitedHealth is also increasing revenue as customers switch
to high-deductible plans and are demanding more support services
around them, said Dave Windley, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in
Nashville,  Tennessee .  Third-quarter net income was little changed at $1.27
billion, or $1.17 a share, UnitedHealth said. Profit for
UnitedHealth, the first of the health insurers to report, has
exceeded the consensus forecast by analysts for eight straight
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  When the earnings statement was reported, UnitedHealth drew
kudos from analysts for the added enrollment.  “The results look solid,” said Dave Shove, an analyst at
Bank of Montreal in  new York . “The raised guidance shows
company confidence in current trends, solid premium growth and
manageable medical costs.”  The shares fell on comments about 2012 during the call. The
company will release more specifics on 2012 on Nov. 29 at a
shareholder meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  