-- 
Turkey $2 Billion Lira Defense Fails to UBS as Reserves Sink 9% From High

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-19T16:07:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/turkey-1-billion-lira-defense-failing-to-ubs-as-foreign-reserves-sink-9-.html
Turkey  may lack resources to stop
the lira’s tumble after selling more than $2 billion this week
to prop up the currency, extending a two-month campaign to end
the declines, according to UBS AG and Commerzbank AG.  Central bank reserves fell more than 9 percent from a
record high of $93.9 billion on July 8 to $85.1 billion on Oct.
7 as policy makers accelerated dollar sales. Turkey’s foreign-
exchange holdings equal about four months of imports and
represent 42 percent of the government’s annual external
financing needs, Timothy Ash, the head of emerging-market
research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said in
an e-mailed report.  “We are skeptical that intervention will be sufficient to
arrest the lira’s decline,”  Manik Narain , an emerging-market
strategist at UBS in London, said by e-mail yesterday. “The
central bank of Turkey’s foreign-exchange reserves ammunition is
weak when one takes short-term external debt into
consideration.”  The lira fell 0.2 percent to 1.8613 per dollar at 6:57 p.m.
The currency has dropped 17 percent against the dollar this
year, the second worst performance after South  Africa ’s rand
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as the
nation’s record current-account deficit, equal to about 10
percent of gross domestic product, and concern over the
spreading European debt crisis dented investor confidence.  Tightening Cycle  Yields on two-year benchmark debt rose 20 basis points, or
0.20 percentage point, to 8.75 percent, the highest level in 11
weeks, according to an RBS local benchmark index of the
securities.  The central bank might drop a reference to a possible cut
in  interest rates  at a meeting of its Monetary Policy Committee
tomorrow and “may launch a tightening cycle,” said Selim
Gulkan, a fixed-income trader at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS, in a
phone interview from Istanbul.  The cost of insuring five-year Turkish debt rose for the
second day after reaching a five-week low on Oct. 17. Credit-
default swaps, which rise as perceptions of creditworthiness
worsen, climbed 6.24 basis points to 250.8 today, CMA data show.  Foreign-exchange reserves are at a “threshold that markets
would feel uncomfortable with,” said Simon Quijano-Evans, the
London-based head of research for  Europe , the  Middle East  and
Africa at ING Groep NV, the biggest Dutch financial services
company.  “The market is now challenging the central bank’s
commitment and its capacity to contain the currency
depreciation,”  Murat Toprak , a currency strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said yesterday. “The central bank has now no
choice but to be more aggressive.”  Selling Dollars  Policy makers sold more than $500 million in exchange for
liras yesterday in the central bank’s first direct intervention
in  currency markets  since 2006, according to three traders who
asked not to be identified because they are not authorized to
speak publicly on the matter. Policy makers also sold $750
million earlier in the day through a pre-announced auction.  The bank sold $750 million today after offering as much as
$1.35 billion in an auction.  Turkey joins Indonesia,  India ,  Brazil  and  Russia  in selling
dollars to stem currency declines as concern that the global
economy may be headed for a recession reduces demand for
emerging-market assets. Russia’s holdings of gold and foreign
currency total about $510 billion, India’s $312.2 billion,
Brazil’s $350.7 billion and  Indonesia ’s $114.5 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Useful and Sufficient’  Turkey’s central bank started selling dollars for lira on
Aug. 5, the day after it cut the benchmark one-week repo rate to
a record low to help protect the economy from a slowdown. The
lira’s slide has been “useful and sufficient,” Governor Erdem Basci said on Sept. 30. The currency traded at 1.8599 per dollar
that day.  The central bank intervened after seeing “unhealthy prices
as a result of speculative behavior linked to a loss of market
depth,” according to an e-mailed statement from the bank in
Ankara.  “I do not believe that the direct interventions will have
any more effect than the foreign-exchange auctions did because
the underlying problem is the same,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency
strategist at Commerzbank in  Frankfurt , said by e-mail. “It
would run out of reserves quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  