-- 
Turkey Buoys Lira With $1 Billion Intervention as Deficit Concern Persists

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-18T17:17:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/turkish-central-bank-sells-dollars-to-prevent-unhealthy-lira.html
Turkey ’s central bank sold more than
$1 billion of its reserves, stepping up a two-month campaign to
arrest a slump in the lira that’s triggered by concern about the
record current account gap.  The lira rose 0.5 percent to 1.8574 per dollar at 8:02 p.m.
in Istanbul, reversing earlier losses. The central bank, which
announced the intervention on its website, sold more than $500
million for liras, according to three traders who asked not to
be identified because they are not authorized to speak publicly
on the matter. It also sold $750 million earlier today through a
pre-announced auction.  “I’m not sure this intervention sends the right signal to
the market,” Roderick Ngotho, a strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said by e-mail. “The lira had already come
under pressure due to the current account. Those who are bearish
on the lira hold that stance primarily because of the impression
that the sizable current account deficit will persist.”  Turkey’s central bank is seeking to defend the lira with
foreign currency reserves that totaled $85.1 billion on Oct. 7,
less than a fifth of  Russia ’s $510.4 billion in gold and foreign
currency.  Indonesia ,  India  and  South Korea , as well as Brazil
and  Peru , sold dollars last month to stem declines in their
currencies, according to central bankers and traders. Russia
also sold foreign currency in September, UniCredit SpA, wrote in
an e-mailed report on Sept. 29.  European Woes  Turkey has been selling dollars through regular auctions
for more than two months as the country’s record current-account
deficit of almost 10 percent of economic output and European
financial woes dented investor confidence.  The central bank in Ankara said it intervened after seeing
“unhealthy prices as a result of speculative behavior linked to
a loss of  market depth ,” according to an e-mailed statement. It
said it may also sell “a large amount” of foreign currency in
an auction tomorrow. It didn’t say how many dollars it sold
today.  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds fell 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, to 8.55 percent, sliding for the first
day in four.  “I do not believe that the direct interventions will have
any more effect than the foreign-exchange auctions did, because
the underlying problem is the same,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed
response to questions. “It would run out of reserves quickly.”  The central bank’s foreign exchange reserves declined $2.4
billion in the week to Oct. 7, selling dollars as the lira slid
to a record low of 1.9096 per dollar. It sold $70 million
yesterday.  ‘Aggressive Bank’  Investors should buy liras at a rate of 1.87 per dollar and
sell at 1.79 because the central bank will intervene
“aggressively” to support the currency, JPMorgan strategists
including Mike Trounce said in an e-mailed report to investors.  “In the short run the central bank has the determination
and capacity to support the lira,” Trounce said in the report.  The bank started selling dollars for lira on Aug. 5, the
day after it cut the benchmark one-week repo rate to a record
low. The lira’s slide has been “useful and sufficient,”
Governor Erdem Basci said Sept. 30. The currency traded at
1.8599 per dollar that day. Direct market interventions aren’t
always successful and can cause more volatility, Basci said.  “The market is now challenging the central bank’s
commitment and its capacity to contain the  currency
depreciation ,” HSBC currency strategist Murat Toprak said.
“The central bank has now no choice but to be more
aggressive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  