-- 
Vale CEO Says May Discuss Iron-Ore Prices as Clients Seeking Better Deal

-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-10-18T20:20:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/vale-ceo-says-may-discuss-with-clients-seeking-better-pricing.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, said it may consider changing the pricing on some
contracts for the steel-making raw material after the spot-
market price fell to its lowest in almost a year.  “If anyone wants to buy under different conditions, we can
discuss it,” Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira told
reporters today in Brasilia. “We adjust according to the market
conditions at the moment.”  The company is currently maintaining its quarterly pricing
formula and has “no desire” to sell on the  spot market , he
said before speaking at a Senate hearing.  O Estado de S. Paulo newspaper reported Oct. 15 that Vale
is giving Chinese customers the option to pay for  iron ore  at
close to the spot market price as miners cede to pressure from
Chinese steelmakers unhappy with higher prices set in quarterly
contracts. China’s Economic Information Daily reported today
that Vale sent a letter agreeing to cut prices after several
steelmakers requested a price adjustment.  Vale’s iron-ore contracts are currently based on a three-
month average of price indexes for the period ending one month
before the onset of the new quarter. The company, together with
rivals Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd., in 2010 abandoned
a 40-year custom of setting prices annually in favor of
quarterly contracts.  Monthly Option  Vale may decide to switch some of its iron-ore contracts to
a monthly basis as it seeks to increase sales in  China  amid
slower growth in other markets, Jonathan Brandt, an HSBC
Holdings Plc equity analyst in  New York , said in a telephone
interview today.  “As Europe slows, Vale needs to ship more volumes to
China, so I think they need to be somewhat flexible,” he said,
adding that iron-ore contract prices may average an estimated
$176 per ton in the fourth quarter based on the current
quarterly pricing system.  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to
the Chinese port of Tianjin declined 2 percent to $150.30 a
metric ton today, its lowest level since Nov. 3, according to
the Steel Index. Iron-ore prices for immediate delivery fell
about 15 percent in the past month on concerns the expansion in
China, the biggest consumer of the raw material, may slow as
 Europe ’s debt crisis drags on a global recovery.  Chinese demand for iron ore is holding after the economy
grew 9.1 percent during the third quarter, Ferreira said.  “We don’t see any change in China,” he said. “We have an
important crisis in the U.S. and now also very sharp in Europe,
which is a good market for us.”  Vale’s preferred stock rose 0.2 percent to 38.80 reais in
 Sao Paulo  at 6:07 p.m. after falling earlier as much as 2.7
percent. The stock has fallen 18 percent since the start of the
year, less than the 21 percent drop in  Brazil ’s benchmark
Bovespa index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net 
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  