-- 
Vale Falls as Iron-Ore Prices Decline to Near One-Year Low

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-10-18T14:59:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/vale-common-preferred-shares-lead-bovespa-index-decline.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, headed for its biggest two-day drop in more than
two months, pushing down the Bovespa index after prices for the
raw material fell to its lowest in almost a year.  Vale’s preferred stock dropped 2.4 percent to 37.81 reais
and voting shares lost 2.5 percent to 40.34 reais in Sao Paulo
at 12:41 p.m., accounting for about a fourth of the index’s 
decline. The two classes of shares headed for a two-day drop
of more than 8 percent, the most since Aug. 9.  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to
the Chinese port of Tianjin  declined  2 percent to $150.30 a
metric ton today, its lowest level since Nov. 3, according to
the Steel Index.  Iron-ore  prices for immediate delivery fell
about 15 percent in the past month on concerns China, the
biggest consumer of the steelmaking ingredient, may slow its
expansion as Europe’s debt crisis drags on a global recovery.  Vale will cut the price of iron ore sold to Chinese  steel
mills  to $160 per metric ton from $175, China’s Economic
Information Daily reported, citing an unidentified official from
a Chinese steelmaker. The Rio de Janeiro-based company sent a
letter on the price cut after several steelmakers had requested
a price adjustment, the newspaper said.  A Vale official in Rio de Janeiro, who declined to be named
citing corporate policies when contacted by  Bloomberg News 
today, said the company had no comments on pricing negotiations.  MMX, Bradespar  Shares of MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the iron-ore
producer controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , fell
2.6 percent to 6.70 reais. Shares of  Metalurgica Gerdau SA (GOAU4) , the
parent of Latin America’s largest steelmaker, lost 2.7 percent
to 16.39 reais, the biggest drop in the Bovespa index.  Bradespar SA (BRAP3) , which owns an indirect stake in Vale through
the miner’s controlling shareholder, Valepar SA, slipped 2.6
percent to 31.60 reais.  Brazilian banker Daniel Dantas, owner of asset manager
Opportunity, may increase his stake in Valepar to 3 percent from
0.03 percent after an arbitration chamber ruling, Valor
Economico reported, citing unidentified people with knowledge of
the matter. Bradespar will appeal the decision, which allows
Dantas to buy the shares for less than their market price, the
Sao Paulo-based newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  