-- 
Venizelos Warns Against ‘Great Expectations’ From Crisis Summit

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-10-18T14:22:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/venizelos-warns-against-great-expectations-from-crisis-summit.html
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said that expectations should be moderated for the
outcome of European talks on Oct. 23, the second official in two
days to caution against hopes of a resolution to the crisis.  Greece will “aim for the best for the country and the euro
area,” Venizelos told President Karolos Papoulias during a
meeting in  Athens  today, according to an e-mailed transcript.
All the same, “we shouldn’t have great expectations from
Sunday’s summit,” he said.  Venizelos joins German officials including Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  in urging markets not to set too high their
expectations that the European Union leaders’ summit will
produce a complete fix to the region’s two-year sovereign debt
crisis. The quest for an end to the crisis “surely extends well
into next year,” Steffen Seibert, Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
chief spokesman, told reporters in Berlin yesterday.  Negotiations will begin tomorrow morning ahead of an Oct.
21 meeting of euro-area finance ministers that starts a weekend
of debt-crisis consultations, Venizelos said.  Greece’s situation is “extremely precarious,” he said.
“Everyone understands that if  Greece  is saved, the euro area
will be saved. The opposite is also the case: if the Europeans
fail in Greece, they won’t be able to shield themselves.”  Austerity Vote  Greek lawmakers will vote on Oct. 20 on fresh austerity
measures demanded by the EU and International Monetary Fund for
Greece to continue receiving support under a 110 billion-euro
($151 billion) bailout package last year. The measures have
provoked a wave of strikes by public-sector employees, including
municipal garbage collection workers who were today ordered back
to work by an executive decree.  Successive rounds of tax increases and cuts to wages and
pensions have deepened a recession now in its fourth year, with
the economy set to contract 5.5 percent this year and 2.5
percent next, according to the 2012 budget. The  unemployment
rate  reached 16.5 percent in July, data released today by the
Hellenic Statistical Authority showed.  Greece’s measures had “opened wounds on the body of
society,” which a “national struggle” against  tax evasion 
would help close, Venizelos said. Greece is not “living in
normal conditions” and the government does not want to apply a
policy of “cutbacks and austerity.”  “We would be happy if we could be generous, to give to all
something a bit more,” he said. “Unfortunately we are cutting
from all and mainly from those who can’t hide their incomes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  