-- 
LVMH Proud to Disappoint Bears

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-10-18T15:56:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/lvmh-proud-to-disappoint-bears.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
the world’s largest maker of luxury goods, said it was “proud”
to disappoint market bears and remains confident for the rest of
2011 after third-quarter sales beat analysts’ estimates.  “In the current environment, most people are looking for
reasons to be worried rather than to be optimistic,” Finance
Director Jean-Jacques Guiony said today on a conference call.
“We are very proud obviously to disappoint pessimistics as our
businesses, by and large, continue to operate in the same
environment as they have since the beginning of the year.”  Revenue rose 18 percent from a year earlier to 6.01 billion
euros ($8.23 billion), the Paris-based maker of Celine handbags
and TAG Heuer watches said in a statement. That surpassed the
5.85 billion-euro average of seven analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Excluding currency swings and acquisitions, sales
in the quarter advanced 15 percent.  Growth in sales of  luxury goods  may weaken in 2012 from
this year’s 10 percent gain as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
weighs on purchases of expensive handbags and other items in the
region, Bain & Co. said yesterday. LVMH has seen some signs of
weakness, notably in southern Europe, though October is in line
with the first nine months of the year and the company has no
reason to believe the environment will change, Guiony said.  “Our future view is as good as yesterday’s sales,” the
finance director said. “Yet the current strengths of, more or
less, all our businesses and all geographies nourishes our
confidence for the future and our ability to make further
advances on the luxury market.”  Share Performance  LVMH shares rose 0.4 percent to 114 euros in Paris, paring
this year’s decline to 7.4 percent and valuing the company at
57.9 billion euros.  LVMH has asked managers to prepare a “Plan B” for 2012 in
case of a downturn, Guiony said. Nine-month sales climbed 15
percent to 16.3 billion euros, led by watches and jewelry,
selective retailing, and fashion and leather, the company said.  The acceleration in fashion and leather-goods sales in the
third quarter “notably demonstrates that capacity constraints
are no longer an issue” at  Louis Vuitton ,  Antoine Belge , an
analyst at HSBC who has a “neutral” recommendation on the
stock, said in a note. Vuitton opened additional production
facilities after inventory shortages in the first half.  On a local-currency basis, sales gained 27 percent in  Asia ,
18 percent in the U.S. excluding  Hawaii , and 7 percent in Europe
in the nine months through September, LVMH said. Revenue fell
3 percent in  Japan  in the period, though sales grew 3 percent in
the country in the third quarter.  Growth in  China   “We see no signs of slowing down in China,” Guiony said,
adding that Asia, excluding Japan, continues to grow its share
of total revenue.  Watch and jewelry sales growth slowed in Europe in the
third quarter, hurt by “lackluster” demand in Italy and Spain
and the Swiss franc’s appreciation against the euro, the
executive said. Perfume and cosmetics sales fell about 1 percent
in Europe, he said.  Champagne volumes were “flat” in the period, negatively
affected by a shortage of  Veuve Clicquot  in the U.S. and the
lackluster performance of Mercier in Europe, where some accounts
closed, Guiony said.  LVMH agreed to buy Bulgari SpA in March and has built up a
stake in  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA to benefit from surging demand
for $3,200 white gold and diamond earrings and $7,500 Birkin
bags. LVMH’s shareholding in Hermes isn’t materially different
from the 21.4 percent stake it declared in July, Guiony said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  