-- 
LVMH Sales Top Estimates, Luxury Maker Remains Confident for Rest of Year

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-10-18T07:17:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/lvmh-sales-top-estimates-luxury-maker-remains-confident-for-rest-of-year.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
the maker of Celine handbags and TAG Heuer watches, reported
third-quarter sales that topped analysts’ estimates and said it
is confident for the remainder of 2011.  Revenue rose 18 percent to 6.01 billion euros ($8.28
billion), the Paris-based company said today in a statement.
That was more than the 5.85 billion-euro average of seven
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding currency
swings and acquisitions, sales advanced 15 percent, LVMH said.  An acceleration in fashion and leather-goods sales
“notably demonstrates that capacity constraints are no longer
an issue” at Louis Vuitton,  Antoine Belge , an analyst at HSBC
who has a “neutral” recommendation on the stock, said in a
note. Vuitton opened additional production facilities after
inventory shortages in the first half.  LVMH joins  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  in expressing optimism.
Burberry, the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker, said last week
that it sees no signs of a slowdown in its markets. Bain & Co.
sounded a note of caution yesterday, saying that luxury-goods
sales growth may weaken in 2012 from this year’s 10 percent gain
as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis weighs on purchases of
expensive handbags and other items in the region.  “The third quarter showed a continuation of the trend
evident since the start of the year,” LVMH said in the
statement. “The momentum continued in Asia, Europe and the
 United States , while  Japan  returned to growth over the period.”  Bulgari, Hermes  LVMH, the world’s largest maker of luxury goods, agreed to
buy Bulgari SpA in March and has built up a stake in  Hermes
International (RMS)  SCA to benefit from surging demand for $3,200
white gold and diamond earrings and $7,500 Birkin bags.  LVMH shares fell 1.2 percent to 112.20 euros as of 9:09
a.m. in Paris, while the CAC 40 index of French stocks was down
1.9 percent. LVMH has declined 8.9 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 57 billion euros.  Nine-month sales climbed 15 percent to 16.3 billion euros,
led by watches and jewelry, selective retailing and fashion and
leather goods, LVMH said.  Revenue at LVMH’s fashion and leather-goods unit, which
includes Vuitton and Berluti, rose 15 percent on a so-called
organic basis in the nine months, boosted by strong demand for
leather lines and classical products, the company said. LVMH,
which inaugurated the Maison  Louis Vuitton  in  Singapore  in the
third quarter, will open fewer stores net of closures and invest
more on enlarging some of its current boutiques, Vuitton chief
Yves Carcelle said last month.  Asian Tourism  Watch and jewelry sales rose 26 percent, excluding currency
swings and the impact of acquisitions, in the nine months
through September, LVMH said. “Bulgari is performing well
across all product categories,” the company said.  Revenue at the selective distribution unit, which includes
DFS and Sephora, gained 19 percent on the same basis in the
period, LVMH said. DFS continued to benefit from the expansion
of Asian tourism, particularly in  Hong Kong  and Macau, while
Sephora increased market share in all its regions.  Nine-month sales of wines and spirits climbed 11 percent on
an organic basis, and perfume and cosmetics revenue rose 10
percent in the period, LVMH said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  