-- 
Volkswagen, BMW Lead European Car Sales Gains on New Models, German Market

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-10-18T07:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/volkswagen-bmw-lead-european-car-sales-gains-on-new-models-german-market.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  led gains in European car sales as new models propelled
demand and the German carmakers’ home market grew.  Registrations climbed 1.1 percent to 1.27 million vehicles
from 1.26 million units a year earlier, the Brussels-based
 European Automobile Manufacturers Association , or ACEA, said
today in a statement. Nine-month sales declined 0.8 percent to
10.5 million registrations.  Germany  was the only car market among Europe’s top five to
expand last month, with an 8.1 percent increase, according to
the ACEA. Wolfsburg-based Volkswagen has introduced a new
version of the Passat mid-sized car and a revamped Audi A6 sedan
in the past year. Munich-based BMW redesigned its mid-size 5-
Series line last year, and its global deliveries of the revamped
X3 sport-utility vehicle tripled last month.  “New models have certainly played a role,” said Frank Biller, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg who
recommends buying Volkswagen, BMW and  Daimler AG (DAI)  stock. Growth
in Germany was influenced by “a low point of comparison in
2010,” when sales were still down following a boost in 2009
from the country’s “cash-for-clunkers” program.  The ACEA reports figures from European Union member
countries plus Switzerland, Norway and Iceland. Western European
car sales, which don’t include figures from the nations that
have joined the EU since 2004, rose 1.1 percent to 1.2 million
vehicles.  Renault Sales Gain  Volkswagen’s sales increased 13 percent while BMW’s gained
6.8 percent.  Renault SA (RNO)  posted a 1.5 percent gain.  Executive and  consumer confidence  in the 17-nation euro
area fell to almost a two-year low in September, reflecting
growing concern that the sovereign-debt crisis may lead to a
recession, according to European Union figures released last
month. Jonathon Poskitt, an automotive analyst at  J.D. Power  &
Associates, said western  Europe ’s car market may shrink a second
consecutive year in 2012.  J.D. Power estimates that industrywide car sales in western
Europe will fall to 12.6 million vehicles from the 12.8 million
deliveries anticipated this year and the 13 million posted in
2010.  ‘Skewed’ Down  “The risk is if anything skewed towards the downside, so
things could get a lot worse,” Poskitt said by telephone. “If
the  euro zone  slips back into recession, we could be looking at
a much weaker market next year.”  European sales by Paris-based Peugeot, the region’s second-
largest carmaker after Volkswagen, dropped 13 percent. Daimler,
whose Mercedes-Benz division is the world’s third-biggest
luxury-vehicle maker after BMW and VW’s Audi brand, posted a 7.4
percent European sales decline, led by a 23 percent drop for its
Smart brand.  Registrations in the region by Turin, Italy-based Fiat fell
7.8 percent.  General Motors Co. (GM) , whose main brands in Europe are
Opel and Vauxhall, posted a 6.3 percent sales decline, while
 Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s registrations slid 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  