-- 
Wall Street’s 1% Meets 2 Billion Seeking Answers: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-10-18T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/wall-street-1-meet-2-billion-seeking-answers-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
It’s all about location, location,
location, as they say in real estate. Protests, too.  There were more obvious places for  Tokyo ’s Occupy  Wall
Street  protest to converge on Saturday than the nightlife
district of Roppongi. It could have begun in Nihonbashi, home to
the  Tokyo Stock Exchange ; Nagatacho, Japan’s Capitol Hill; or
Ueno, where droves of Tokyo’s homeless congregate.  Instead, activists chose the city’s hedonistic melting pot
of hipsters, strippers, gangsters, expatriates and bankers. Not
just any bankers -- Goldman Sachs ones who work in the swanky
Roppongi Hills complex. Amid the hundreds of activists, I saw
signs saying “No Greed,” “Taxiderm the Rich” and my
favorite, held by a 20-something woman: “Stop Vampire Squids.”  It was a reference to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which was
labeled a “great vampire squid wrapped around the face of
humanity” in a 2009 article in Rolling Stone magazine. For
better or worse, Asians see Goldman Sachs both as the gold
standard of investment banks and a byword for how incestuous
ties between banks and government concentrate wealth in the
hands of a few.  When this sentiment reaches egalitarian Japan, you know it
has legs. Like-minded protests are popping up in  Australia ,  Hong
Kong , India, New Zealand, the  Philippines ,  South Korea  and
 Taiwan  (one planned in  Singapore  was pre-empted by police).  Those who dismiss this groundswell of anger thousands of
miles from  New York  do so at their own peril. And those seeking
clarity on  Occupy Wall Street ’s focus and goals can find it in
Asia: The widening gap between rich and poor is threatening the
very tenets of capitalism and democracy.  Lopsided Asia  Asia’s development is becoming more and more lopsided.
Economies growing 5 percent or 7 percent a year fail to
distribute the spoils with any semblance of balance. The well-
off and politically connected get more and more, while everyone
else feels left behind. As the world slides anew toward
recession, this rich-poor deficit will expand.  This region could be as wealthy as  Europe  by the middle of
this century. It’s not because Europe’s living standards are
falling as we speak, but because  Asia  is booming. To get there,
Asia must address poverty, make economic opportunities
accessible to all, attack corruption, improve education and
health care, and encourage entrepreneurship.  The price for dragging its feet in recent years can be
counted on the streets, where protesters are becoming more
vocal. Their numbers are modest so far, but the power of social
media ensures crowds will grow. Expect demands ranging from the
establishment of 40-hour work weeks; more equitable pay and
benefits; and better health, safety and environmental standards.  The ‘1 Percent’  Of course, Asia’s rich like the status quo. Most in the
region get wealthy via rising stock and property prices. While
protesters rail against the huge bonuses that bankers receive,
Asia’s nouveau riche would probably prefer even bigger ones.
That way, you keep the top end of the market -- which protesters
call the “1 percent” -- happy with larger and larger bonuses,
and all’s well.  On the ground, things look very different as economies
slow. Asians are still miffed at the events of 2008, when over-
leverage and irresponsible policies in the West led to a
financial crisis that damaged regional markets and living
standards. There are hard feelings that the U.S. employed every
policy it told Asia to avoid in the late 1990s, including
devaluing its currency. The U.S. and Europe have yet to fix
underlying weaknesses in their economies.  If things get as bad as pessimists Nouriel Roubini and
Nassim Taleb warn, Asia might face social instability as high
food and energy costs meet falling incomes and rising
unemployment. The only bull market will be in inequality.  The ‘99 Percent’  In  Japan , the media portrayed Saturday’s demonstrations as
anti-nuclear in nature. With the Fukushima plant still leaking
radiation and Tokyo Electric Power Co. as incompetent as ever,
anti-nuke protesters were in the mix. Yet the real story was the
so-called 99 percent calling for more equality.  Japan long prided itself as an egalitarian Mecca, yet
that’s fast changing as deflation deepens, public debt rises,
the population ages and  China ’s competitiveness grows. In an
August report, the government said almost 40 percent of workers
are now “irregular.” That means they get lower pay, fewer
pension benefits and less job security.  In China, the Communist Party must narrow its rich-poor gap
if it is to retain legitimacy and avoid instability in the years
ahead. Officials from  Seoul  to Jakarta face great challenges,
too. And while few want to abandon capitalism, Asia’s masses
increasingly fear its side effects, including a replay of the
2008 meltdown.  What China’s environmental disasters and train crashes have
in common with Japan’s Fukushima crisis,  India ’s dysfunction,
 Indonesia ’s depletion of resources and deadly floods in the
Philippines is corruption. In Asia, it’s often hard to tell
where the public sector ends and the private sector begins, and
vice versa -- just as it increasingly is with Wall Street and
 Washington . Locations change, but the underlying problem
doesn’t.  The key is genuine accountability, transparency and steps
to give the 99 percent more say and a bigger share of the
spoils. Those who want to dismiss Occupy Wall Street should
consider that a couple of billion Asians, or more, aren’t about
to.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  