-- 
Wells Fargo, RBS Said to Prepare $1 Billion Offering of CMBS

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-10-18T16:32:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/wells-fargo-rbs-said-to-prepare-1-billion-offering-of-cmbs.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  are planning to sell about $1 billion of
bonds backed by commercial mortgages in what will be one of the
final issues of the debt this year.  The offering may be marketed to investors as soon as next
week, according to people familiar with the deal, who declined
to be identified because the transaction hasn’t been announced.
The lenders sold $1.48 billion of similar debt in July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wall Street  has pulled back from originating new loans to
package into securities as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis roils markets,
depleting stockpiles of debt held on bank balance sheets.
Lenders including UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc. and
Guggenheim Securities LLC have been in discussions to pool
mortgages for a joint deal to clear their books this year,
people familiar with the talks said last week.  Shelley Beason, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo and  Michael Geller , a spokesman for RBS, declined to
comment.  Wall Street has arranged about $25.6 billion in commercial
mortgage-backed securities this year, compared with $11.5
billion in all of 2010, Bloomberg data show. Sales plummeted to
$3.4 billion in 2009 compared with a record $234 billion in
2007, choking off funding to property owners with debt coming
due.  The extra yield investors demand to hold top-ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries soared to 323
basis points, or 3.23 percentage points, on Oct. 4, the most
since February 2010, according to the Barclays Capital CMBS AAA
Super Duper Index. Spreads have narrowed to 3.18 percentage
points after widening from 2.26 percentage points at the end of
July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  