-- 
Western Digital Exports From Thailand to Fall on Flood

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-10-19T01:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/western-digital-thai-exports-to-fall-on-flood-minister-says-1-.html
(Corrects percentage decline and export value in first
paragraph of story published Oct. 18.)  Western Digital Corp. (WDC) ’s exports from
Thailand may slide as much as 40 percent to 120 billion baht
($3.9 billion) this year after floods shut two of its plants,
Thai Industry Minister Wannarat Charnnukul said.  “This will surely affect the global supply chain and also
consumers because  Western Digital  is a key producer in the
global market,” Wannarat told reporters after meeting with
executives from the computer disk-drive maker.  The nation’s worst floods in five decades have closed about
1,000 factories operated by companies including Honda Motor Co.
and Canon Inc. and disrupted supply chains for manufacturers
such as Toyota Motor Corp. Western Digital, which counts
Hewlett-Packard Co., Dell Inc. and Acer Inc. among its
customers, relies on its plants in  Thailand  for 60 percent of
its production, Wannarat said.  “What they really want now is for the government to clear
the site and allow them to get back to the plants as fast as
possible,” Wannarat said. “The quicker they can get back to
work, the smaller the damage.”  It may take the company between four and six months to
resume full production, cutting Western Digital’s exports from
Thailand by 80 billion baht, from 200 billion baht last year,
the minister said. The Irvine, California-based company has a 33
percent share of the global hard-disk drive market, according to
Wannarat.  The stock dropped 7.4 percent to $26.25 in New York trading
on Oct. 17, the biggest decline since July 21.  Western Digital expects the closure will reduce its ability
to meet customer demand in the quarter ending in December, it
said in a  statement  Oct. 17. Spokeswoman Juliet Lawal in Paris
declined to comment and spokeswoman Mimi Wong for the Asia-
Pacific region didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The company employs about 40,000 people in Thailand and has
agreed to pay 75 percent of their salaries over the next six
months, according to Wannarat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tony Jordan  at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net . 