-- 
Western Wind Hires RBC, Forms Committee After Takeover Offer

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-10-18T03:09:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/western-wind-hires-rbc-forms-committee-after-takeover-offer.html
Western Wind Energy Corp. (WND) , a
Canadian producer of renewable energy targeted for a takeover,
said it hired bankers and formed a board committee to help it
evaluate offers.  The Vancouver-based company asked  RBC Capital Markets  and
PI Financial Corp. to advise its panel on the offers. McMillan
LLP will provide legal advice, the company said in a statement
last night.  Western Wind is looking for new investors to purchase the
shares of existing shareholders who have expressed interest in
selling their stakes to  Algonquin Power & Utilities Corp. (AQN) ,
Western Wind Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Ciachurski said.  “We would find investors that would not be hostile to the
company that would take those blocks out,” he said in a
telephone interview. The shares would be purchased for a price
“competitive” with the C$2.50 ($2.45) per share offered by
Algonquin, Ciachurski said.  Ciachurski said the company is talking with investors. He
declined to identify them.  Western Wind said Oct. 11 that Algonquin Power made an
unsolicited offer of C$2.50 a share to buy the company. The bid
undervalued the company by at least half, Ciachurski said.  Algonquin submitted a “non-binding expression of interest
to engage in discussions with Western Wind,” Kelly Castledine,
an Algonquin spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail on Oct. 12. The
company, based in Oakville, Ontario, said Western Wind should
“initiate an appropriate process to provide access for any
interested party to perform a due diligence review.”  Castledine did not immediately respond to requests for
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  