-- 
Wheat Stockpiles in Australia Seen Nearing Record as Coal Lures Railroads

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-10-18T09:41:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/wheat-stockpiles-in-australia-seen-nearing-record-as-coal-lures-rail-cars.html
Wheat stockpiles in  Australia , set
to be the world’s second-biggest shipper, may climb near to a
record by September as competition for rail capacity with coal-
mining companies creates transport bottlenecks in eastern states.  Inventories may increase to 8 million metric tons to 10
million tons by Sept. 30 from as much as 7.3 million tons a year
earlier, according to Steve Burt, managing director of  PentAG
Nidera , a Queensland state-based trader partly owned by Nidera
Group. While the country will have a normal export program,
there’ll be “quite a large carryover towards the end of 2012,”
said Alan Winney, chairman of marketer Emerald Group Australia
Pty. “I see big problems on the east coast.”  The wheat crop is forecast at 26.2 million tons by the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and
Sciences, just short of last year’s record 26.3 million tons.
Exports may climb to an all-time high of 20.4 million tons in
the year from Oct. 1 from 18.7 million tons, the agency said on
Sept. 13. Harvesting starts this month and a second  bumper crop 
may help extend a 23 percent drop in global prices in September.  “Rail is a big issue,” said Winney in an interview. “For
all the benefits that have come to Australia from the mining
boom, it’s also taken a lot of the rail cars out of the
agriculture industries into the mining industries. It’s forcing
the volume to go to the larger companies quite quickly.”  ‘Own Trains’  Emerald doesn’t have much choice “but to go out and get
our own trains,” he said in  Melbourne  on Oct. 12. The company,
50 percent owned by  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , is the fifth-largest grain
operator in Australia and bought 3.4 million tons from farmers
last year, he said. Winney has more than 35 years experience in
agribusiness, including roles with Louis Dreyfus and the
Australian Wheat Board, according to the company website.  Carryout inventories reached a record 9.98 million tons in
2005-2006, according to Abares. Wheat for December delivery fell
1.2 percent to $6.17 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade
today. The slump last month was the largest since 1974.  Grain exporters in New South  Wales  and Queensland states
share part of their transport infrastructure with coal mining
companies. Australia, the world’s largest shipper of coal, may
see export earnings from the coking variety used in steelmaking
jump 29 percent to A$37 billion in the year to June, with
shipments rising 11 percent to 156 million tons, the Bureau of
Resources and Energy Economics said Sept. 20. Revenue from
thermal coal may increase 29 percent to A$18 billion.  ‘Choke Points’  “It’s New South Wales in particular where you’ve got the
choke points,” said Burt from PentAG Nidera in an interview Oct.
13. “We physically can’t get the extra trains on the slots”
because of the competition from coal, he said.  Australia may ship about 18 million tons of wheat in the
year started Oct. 1, according to Emerald. Exports may be 17.5
million tons to 18.5 million tons, said Burt. That compares with
an estimate of 19 million tons from the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture , which ranks the country as the second-biggest
supplier after the U.S. this coming year.  Winney saw problems in the east because of two consecutive
bumper harvests. There is “carryover stock that’s everywhere.
There is insufficient rail. We are going to have difficulty in
some country sites to even receive grain,” he said.  Rain in the eastern states has boosted optimism that the
crop will approach last year’s 26.3 million tons. The country
may produce 25.2 million tons in 2011-2012,  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia  said Oct. 11, lifting its estimate 7.2 percent from
August on favorable conditions.  ‘Real Risk’  “Access to infrastructure is a real risk for everybody,”
said Winney, referring to country storage, railways and ports.
“Most of our competitors are moving to integrated supply chains.
We think inevitably we are going to have to move more into the
logistics chain,” he said.  Emerald has purchased two storage sites in Victoria and is
discussing storage locations with a number of other parties,
said Winney.  Viterra Inc. (VT) , based in Regina, Saskatchewan, is
investing in 40,000 tons of additional bunker storage at Witera,
South Australia state, and is constructing a grain receival
facility at Dooen in Victoria state with a 200,000-ton capacity,
according the company website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Melbourne at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  