-- 
Whitbread Profit Beats Estimates on Costa Coffee

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-10-18T08:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/whitbread-first-half-profit-beats-estimates-on-costa-coffee.html
Whitbread Plc (WTB) , the U.K’s largest
hotel and restaurant operator, reported first-half profit that
beat analyst estimates, led by its Costa Coffee unit.  Underlying pretax profit, which excludes exceptional items,
rose 15 percent to 174.9 million pounds ($276.3 million) in the
six months ended Sept. 1, Dunstable, England-based Whitbread
said in a statement today. That beat a 165.7 million-pound
average estimate of seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Whitbread reported an 11 percent sales gain as Costa Coffee
added cafes in the U.K. and  China . The company, faced with
lackluster  consumer spending  and concern about a recession, is
maintaining prices and introducing new products like Flat White
Coffee, even as it offers low-cost rooms at Premier Inn, Chief
Financial Officer Chris Rogers said.  “We are finding the consumer very fragile,” Rogers said
today on Bloomberg Television’s On the Move with Francine Lacqua. “Our focus is on price and deals which encourage
consumers to come to visit our brands.”  Whitbread was little changed, falling 0.4 percent to 1,620
pence at 9:16 a.m. in  London . The stock has declined 9.3 percent
this year, less than the 34 percent recorded by  Accor SA (AC) , owner
of the economy ibis hotel chain, which is scheduled to report
sales later today.  Costa’s Growth  “There is clearly continued caution regarding the outlook
for consumer spending and cost inflation pressures,” said Nigel Hicks, an analyst at  Liberum Capital  in London.  Revenue at Whitbread’s Premier Inn budget-hotel chain, the
company’s biggest unit, rose as it gained market share. Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Harrison said full-year results will
likely meet expectations.  First-half underlying profit rose 42 percent at Costa and
advanced 8.5 percent at Whitbread’s hotel and restaurant unit,
which includes Premier Inn. Whitbread raised its interim
dividend 56 percent to 17.50 pence.  “These are impressive results given the weak U.K.
economy,” Morgan Stanley’s Jamie Rollo said in a note to
clients today, adding that some analysts are now likely to raise
their full-year estimates for Whitbread. “Costa delivered
another stellar performance.”  The company said it plans to open 4,000 new Premier Inn
rooms and 14 restaurants in the U.K. as well as 300 Costa stores
worldwide this year. Whitbread aims to increase its Premier Inn
network in the U.K. by 50 percent to 65,000 rooms and its Costa
network by 75 percent to 3,500 stores in its five-year plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  