-- 
Wholesale Prices in U.S. Rise More Than Economists Estimated on Food, Fuel

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-10-18T12:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-rose-more-than-economists-estimated-in-september.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S. rose
more than forecast in September, boosted by gasoline, food and
trucks, indicating inflationary pressures continue to bubble up
the  production line .  The  producer price index  climbed 0.8 percent, the most in
five months, after no change in August, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. Economists projected a 0.2 percent
gain, according to the median of 71 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. The so-called core measure, which excludes volatile
food and energy, gained 0.2 percent, also more than predicted.  Slower growth from  China  and  Europe  to the U.S. means
demand for raw materials will probably moderate, helping limit
further gains in prices. A pickup in expenses would call into
question whether inflation will cool enough to give Federal
Reserve policy makers room to further spur the recovery should
the world’s largest economy falter.  “With the slowdown in global economic activity, it’s hard
to make the case that prices will accelerate more meaningfully
from here,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC
Capital Markets Corp. in  New York , who correctly projected the
increase in core prices.  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the report
and  Treasury securities  rose on concern that  France  may lose its
top  credit rating  and as  China’s economy  grew at the slowest
pace in two years. The contract on the  Standard & Poor’s  500
index expiring in December fell 0.1 percent to 1,192.6 at 8:47
a.m. in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell
to 2.13 percent from 2.16 percent late yesterday.  Survey Results  Projections for wholesale prices in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from a 0.2 percent drop to an increase of 0.7 percent.  Compared with September 2010, companies paid 6.9 percent
more for goods last month, after a 6.5 percent rise in August.  Wholesale prices excluding food and energy costs were
projected to rise 0.1 percent for a second month, the Bloomberg
survey showed.  Core wholesale prices climbed 2.5 percent in the 12 months
ended in September, the biggest year-to-year gain since June
2009.  The gains in the PPI were led by a 4.2 percent increase in
gasoline, a 10 percent surge in the cost of vegetables and a 0.6
advance for light motor trucks.  Food Prices  The cost of finished consumer foods climbed 0.6 percent.  Expenses for intermediate goods increased 0.6 percent,
following a 0.5 percent drop in August that was the first
decline since July 2010. Prices of crude goods climbed 2.8
percent.  Boise Inc. (BZ) , a paper and packaging maker based in Boise,
Idaho, is among companies that implemented limited increases in
prices and are being restrained by a slowdown in demand.  “The cut-size papers are very much tied to employment and
particularly white collar employment,” Chief Financial Officer
Samuel Cotterell said on an October 13 conference call with
investors. “As we continue to see weakness in employment
numbers, then that tends to indicate weakness in paper prices.”  Most Fed officials at the Sept. 20-21 meeting anticipated
both core and headline inflation was “likely to settle, over
coming quarters, at or below the levels they see as most
consistent with their dual mandate,” according to minutes
released on Oct. 12.  Fed’s View  “With stable inflation expectations, significant slack in
labor and product markets, slow wage growth, and little evidence
of pricing power among firms, inflation was likely to decline
moderately over time,” the minutes said.  Producer prices, one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department, are calculated based on costs
on the Tuesday of the week containing the 13th of the month,
which may influence month-to-month changes.  Prices of goods imported into the U.S. climbed 0.3 percent
in September, Labor Department data showed last week.  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures, is due
tomorrow. Economists in the Bloomberg survey predict the cost of
living rose 0.3 percent, the smallest gain in three months,
according to the median.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  