-- 
William Hill Says Marketing Officer in Tel Aviv Resigned

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-10-18T15:42:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/william-hill-says-marketing-officer-in-tel-aviv-resigned-1-.html
William Hill Plc (WMH)  said Eyal Sanoff,
chief marketing officer of the U.K. bookmaker’s William Hill
Online marketing team in  Tel Aviv , resigned and other senior
managers are subject to disciplinary action in connection with
“disruption” in offices there and in Manila and  Bulgaria .  “Consumer-facing websites” are not being directly
affected by the problems, and William Hill managers are in Tel
Aviv “working through these issues,” the company said in a
Regulatory News Service statement today. The company didn’t
immediately respond to a request for more information.  About 180 employees walked out of the Tel Aviv office on
Oct. 16 over concern that the company was seeking to transfer
the functions to the U.K. or Gibraltar, according to the
Scottish edition of the Sun newspaper. An analyst, Ivor Jones of
Numis Securities, said a walkout could have “material impact”
on the growth of William Hill’s online operations.  “This could leave WHO without its key marketing growth
engine for some time,” Jones wrote in a note to investors. He
lowered his recommendation to a “reduce” today from “hold”
“Even if the current situation is quickly resolved, we believe
it serves to highlight the uncertain future for WHO.”  William Hill dropped 12.7 pence, or 5.3 percent, to close
at 228.8 pence in  London . The shares have risen 34 percent this
year, giving the company a market value of 1.6 billion pounds
($2.5 billion).  “The vast majority of employees of the marketing team in
Tel Aviv have good working relationships with the business and
with colleagues across William Hill Online,” the company said
in the statement. “William Hill Online is committed to its
sales and marketing operation in Tel Aviv and contrary to media
reports has no intention of relocating this operation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  