-- 
Williams Proves Cheap Target for Pipeline After El Paso Takeover: Real M&A

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-10-18T20:23:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/williams-proves-cheap-target-for-pipeline-after-el-paso-takeover-real-m-a.html
Kinder Morgan Inc.’s takeover of  El
Paso Corp. (EP)  at the highest premium for a U.S. pipeline operator
in 15 years is turning Williams Cos. into the industry’s
cheapest takeover target.  Williams, the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based pipeline owner pursuing
a separation of its oil and natural-gas exploration unit,
yesterday was valued at 7.5 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, the lowest multiple of any
U.S. pipeline company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s almost half the 14 times Ebitda Kinder Morgan said this
week it’s paying for El Paso in a $38 billion purchase that will
create the biggest U.S. pipeline operator. The 47 percent
premium is the industry’s richest since 1996, the data show.  With 15,000 miles of pipelines delivering about 14 percent
of natural gas consumed in the U.S., Williams may lure buyers
after American factories,  power plants  and homeowners burned a
record amount of gas last year and the company lost out on a bid
for  Southern Union Co. (SUG)   Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD) , with a
market value of $36 billion, may be big enough to take on $16
billion Williams, said T. Rowe Price Group Inc.  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP)  or  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  may also feel pressure to add scale after
the takeover of El Paso, said Frost Investment Advisors LLC.  “You’re likely to see some additional domino
transactions,”  Ted Harper , who helps manage $6.8 billion
including Williams shares for Frost Investment Advisors in
Houston, said in a phone interview. “You could easily see those
guys make some moves.”  Today’s Trading  Jeff Pounds, a spokesman for Williams, didn’t respond to a
phone call or e-mail seeking comment.  Shares of Williams climbed 5.5 percent to $29.06 today in
New York. The gain was the biggest among 15 companies in the Dow
Jones Utilities Average.  Williams runs three natural-gas  pipelines  that serve more
than 30 million homes in markets such as  Seattle , New York,
Atlanta and  Florida . Most of the interstate pipelines are assets
of  Williams Partners LP (WPZ) , a master limited partnership that is 75
percent owned by Williams.  Kinder Morgan said Oct. 16 that it agreed to buy Houston-
based El Paso for cash, a portion of Kinder Morgan stock and a
warrant to later buy Kinder Morgan shares. Valued at a combined
$26.87 a share, the deal is 47 percent higher than El Paso’s
average in the prior 20 trading days. That’s the steepest
premium of any U.S. pipeline operator takeover greater than $1
billion after the 48 percent premium Houston Industries Inc.
offered for  NorAm Energy Corp.  in 1996, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Biggest Pipeline Operator  Kinder Morgan said its purchase of El Paso will create a
company with 80,000 miles of pipelines, surpassing Enterprise
Products’  50,000 miles  to become the biggest U.S. pipeline
operator.  “This sets the stage for consolidation and gaining
competitive advantage through scale,” said Andrew Steinhubl, a
Houston-based partner at consulting firm Bain & Co. and co-lead
of its  North America  oil and gas practice.  El Paso had said in May that it would spin off its
exploration and production unit, which Houston-based  Kinder
Morgan  now plans to sell to help fund the acquisition.  Three months earlier, Williams had also announced it would
sell 20 percent of its exploration and production division in an
initial public offering and then spin off the rest next year. In
August, Williams Chief Financial Officer Donald Chappel said the
company may cancel the IPO if the stock market continues to
decline and instead spin off the entire unit.  Today after U.S. markets closed, Williams disclosed that it
scrapped the IPO and will spin off the business by yearend.  ‘More Digestible’  Similarly, Atlas Energy LP announced yesterday that it will
separate its exploration and production business into a master
limited partnership.  “Splitting up makes it more digestible,” Timothy Parker,
a portfolio manager who oversees about $4.3 billion in natural-
resource stocks at T. Rowe, said in a phone interview. “Is
Williams in play more than it used to be? Yeah, maybe. But you
will need a big company.”  T. Rowe owned 5.2 million shares of Williams as of June.  Williams yesterday had an enterprise value, or the sum of
its equity and debt minus cash, of about $25.7 billion, or 7.5
times its Ebitda of $3.4 billion in the last 12 months. No U.S.
pipeline company was cheaper, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  Even if Williams commands a takeover premium comparable to
El Paso, the company would have a total value of about $33
billion, or 9.7 times Ebitda, still cheaper than 71 percent of
industry deals greater than $1 billion, the data show.  “Williams is the most likely takeout target” in the
pipeline industry because it has a low valuation and no state
utilities, Rebecca Followill, managing director and head of
equity research at U.S. Capital Advisors LLC in Houston, said in
a phone interview. “The question is, does Williams accept an
offer or does Williams approach someone else and say, I want to
buy you?”  The company was in a bidding war for natural-gas pipeline
owner Southern Union, which agreed to be bought by  Energy
Transfer Equity LP (ETE)  in July for $9.3 billion including net debt.
Williams CEO Alan Armstrong told investors a month ago that the
company is “well positioned” if it wants to make another bid
for Southern Union after its previous offers were rejected.  Texas to  Pennsylvania   New drilling techniques have allowed energy companies to
unlock previously inaccessible oil and natural gas all over
North America, depressing prices of both commodities while
driving demand for more pipelines, Bain’s Steinhubl said.
Pipeline operators have profited even as a glut of supply from
new wells in Texas, Arkansas and Pennsylvania slashed prices 16
percent. A record  24.1 trillion cubic feet  of gas was burned in
the U.S. last year, according to the Energy Information
Administration.  With Kinder Morgan already buying El Paso, that may leave
Houston-based Enterprise Products as the only viable acquirer
for Williams, said T. Rowe’s Parker. Enterprise Products, now
the second-biggest U.S. pipeline operator after Kinder Morgan-El
Paso, has a market value that’s more than double the size of
Williams. Enterprise Products has spent about $24.6 billion on
acquisitions since the start of 2000, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “You do have a limited set of suitors,” Parker said.
“Enterprise is sufficiently big to do something like that.”  ‘Build Value’  Rick Rainey , a spokesman for Enterprise Products, declined
to comment on whether the company is considering a bid.  “Our strategy that we’ve demonstrated is built around
organic growth, and we continue to pursue that strategy and
build value for our shareholders in that way,” Rainey said.
“I’m not saying that acquisitions aren’t part of our overall
strategic options, but we see the multiples as not being
attractive at the moment.”  TransCanada and Enbridge, both based in Calgary, also have
enough scale to attempt a takeover of Williams, said Harper of
Frost Investment Advisors. TransCanada, which is awaiting U.S.
approval for its $7 billion Keystone XL pipeline that will
transport Canadian oil from Alberta to Texas refineries, has a
market capitalization of C$30.1 billion ($29.4 billion). The
company is also working on projects in power transmission and
renewable energy.  “Looking forward, the company is focused on completing the
remaining $10 billion of projects that are part of its capital
program,” Terry Cunha, a spokesman for TransCanada, said in an
e-mail response to a question regarding the company’s interests
in potential acquisitions.  ‘On the Lookout’  Enbridge, the largest transporter of Canadian crude to the
U.S., has a market capitalization of about $26 billion and said
last month it will build a pipeline with Enterprise Products to
move crude from a bottleneck at Cushing,  Oklahoma , to refineries
on the U.S. Gulf Coast.  “We evaluate all options to grow our businesses; however,
we currently have an unprecedented slate of organic growth
opportunities ahead of us which will generally have better
economics underpinning them than acquisitions,”  Jennifer Varey ,
a spokeswoman for Enbridge, said in an e-mail. “We’re always on
the lookout for opportunities, but there are none that I could
speak to at this point in time.”  It’s “certainly always possible” Williams will be the
next acquisition,  Timothy Ghriskey , who oversees $2 billion as
chief investment officer of Solaris Group LLC in  Bedford Hills ,
 New York , said in a phone interview.  “There is great demand for the build out of energy
infrastructure,” Ghriskey said. “We found all this natural gas
suddenly and it has to get transported.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 