-- 
Yahoo Profit Beats Analyst Estimates as Online Advertising Market Expands

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-10-19T00:17:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/yahoo-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-as-online-advertising-market-expands.html
Yahoo! Inc., the U.S. Web portal
exploring strategic options after firing Chief Executive Officer
 Carol Bartz , reported third-quarter profit that beat estimates
as the market for online advertising expanded.  Profit excluding some costs was 21 cents a share, topping
the average 17-cent estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Net income
attributable to the company fell 26 percent to $293.3 million,
or 23 cents, from $396.1 million, or 29 cents, a year earlier,
Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo said in a statement.  Yahoo ousted Bartz in September after the company failed to
keep pace with ad growth at  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. Since
then, “multiple parties” have expressed interest in the
company, according to a memo last month by co-founder  Jerry Yang . U.S. online ad spending is expected to grow 20 percent
this year, to $31.3 billion, according to  EMarketer Inc. ,
helping Yahoo revenue even as market share slips.  “Business is not as bad as people thought,” said  Sameet Sinha , an analyst with B. Riley & Co., who rates the stock
“buy” and doesn’t own it.  The shares rose as much as 4.3 percent to $16.14 in
extended trading. Yahoo earlier fell 1.5 percent to close at
$15.47 in New York trading. The stock has declined 7 percent
this year.  ‘In Line’  “I think people were fearful that the quarter would be
disappointing, and essentially it was in line,” said Clay Moran, an analyst at Benchmark Co., who has a “hold” rating on
Yahoo.  Third-quarter revenue, excluding sales passed on to partner
sites, fell 4.6 percent to $1.07 billion, matching the average
analyst estimate, according to Bloomberg data.  In  Asia , revenue excluding sales passed to partners surged
20 percent to $221.6 million. Sales in the Americas region
dropped 12 percent to $753.7 million.  “It’s the international piece, I think, that really saved
the day for them,” Sinha said.  Fourth-quarter revenue, excluding sales passed to partner
sites, will be $1.13 billion to $1.24 billion. Analysts had
estimated $1.21 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  The company also said it recently agreed to extend a
revenue per search agreement with Microsoft Corp. in the U.S.
and  Canada  through 2013.  Yahoo is struggling to keep users on its sites, trailing
some rivals. U.S. Web surfers spent 9.9 percent of their time on
Yahoo in September, compared with 10.2 percent for Google, owner
of the world’s most popular search engine, according to Reston,
Virginia-based ComScore Inc. Facebook, the largest social-
networking site, captured 14.7 percent.  Advertising Shift  Advertisers are shifting more focus to competing sites as
well. Yahoo’s share of display ads, including banners, will be
13.1 percent this year in the U.S., down from 14.4 percent last
year, estimates New York-based  EMarketer Inc.  Facebook’s share
will climb to 16.3 percent, up from 12.2 percent. And Google
should have 9.3 percent, an increase from 8.6 percent.  Display ad revenue, excluding sales passed to partners, was
$449 million in the quarter, little changed from $448 million a
year earlier. Display sales rose 4.9 percent in the second
quarter.  Bartz, who had aimed to compete better with rivals, left
the company amid mounting investor frustration over failed
turnaround efforts. The company appointed Tim Morse, who had
served as chief financial officer, as interim CEO and said it
would implement a strategic review to revive growth.  Game Plan  “We’re just focused on what we can control,” Morse said
in a telephone interview today. “We’re really working on our
underlying technology, our interface with advertisers, our
products, our partnerships. That’s the game plan, and we’re just
going to keep our heads down and focus on that.”  Yahoo has drawn an increasingly crowded field of potential
bidders for the company. KKR & Co. and Blackstone Group LP are
among the private-equity firms considering possible bids for
Yahoo, according to people with knowledge of the matter last
week.  In addition, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., a Chinese e-
commerce company whose biggest shareholder is Yahoo, has
discussed a plan with  Silver Lake  and  Russia ’s Digital Sky
Technologies to make a joint bid, people familiar with the
matter have said. Another group that is interested in a possible
offer includes Providence Equity Partners Inc. and former News
Corp. executive  Peter Chernin , people said.  Yahoo advisers view the Silver Lake group and the
Providence group as the two likeliest buyers, with Alibaba and
private-equity funds joining one of the efforts, a person said.  “The board is actively looking at the full range of
options available to return the company to a path of robust
growth and industry-leading innovation,” Morse said on a
conference call with analysts. “The board also has said that
when it has something to announce, it will do so. That will take
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 