-- 
Dragon’s Marijuana Use Adds Risk to Korea Pop Music as YG Scales Back IPO

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 
2011-10-19T08:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/yg-reduces-ipo-size-as-dragon-s-marijuana-use-adds-risk-to-korea-pop-music.html
YG Entertainment Co., which manages
the Korean boy band  Big Bang , lowered the amount it’s seeking in
its initial public offering after the band’s leader tested
positive for marijuana use.  G-Dragon’s drug use could be a “constraint” for the
band’s activities for a while, YG said in a revised prospectus
submitted to Korea Exchange Inc. yesterday. Big Bang’s concerts
may be delayed and revenue from commercials could fall, the
company said. Big Bang and its members accounted for more than
half of the company’s total sales in 2010, YG said.  YG is seeking as much as 35.9 billion won ($31 million),
less than the 39.9 billion won it had earlier sought as Big Bang
played to full stadiums in Japan and fans flocked to female
quartet  2NE1 , which is also managed by the company. Shares of
listed rival S.M. Entertainment Co. more than tripled this year,
even as the benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slumped 9.5 percent.  “A short-term impact on earnings is inevitable given that
G-Dragon was YG’s flagship artist and helped lift the company to
the top ranks in the Korean music industry,” Choi Woong Pil, a
Seoul-based  fund manager  at KB Asset Management Co., which
manages $23 billion in assets, said in an interview. “It won’t
end interest in the IPO because its main rival S.M. continues to
perform really well and YG’s potential is intact.”  Deep Regret  YG declined to make G-Dragon, whose off-stage name is Kwon
Ji Yong, available for comment. The singer unwittingly accepted
what he thought was a regular tobacco cigarette from a fan
during a tour of  Japan  in May and took “two or three puffs”
before throwing it in a toilet, the company said in a statement
on Oct. 5.  “Prosecutors decided not to indict G-Dragon as he didn’t
have intention to smoke drugs and extremely small traces of
marijuana were detected from tests,” YG said in that statement.
“G-Dragon and the company deeply regret and apologize for not
being more careful.”  YG plans to set up an “artist risk management” team, the
company said in yesterday’s prospectus. An artist’s image tends
to affect revenue of entertainment companies, YG said.  Orders for stock in the IPO will be taken on Nov. 14-15,
compared with the previous schedule of Oct. 12-13, the sale
document said. The company is seeking to sell almost 1.25
million shares at 22,100 won to 28,800. It earlier offered them
at 24,600 won to 32,000 won.  Music Charts  YG’s stock price was 64,000 won on Oct. 18 in the over-the-
counter market, according to the website of online equity
exchange  pstock.co.kr  in  Seoul . That’s down from 69,000 won on
Oct. 5.  South Korean pop, or “K-pop,” acts promoted by S.M.
Entertainment dominate the nation’s music charts. S.M.’s biggest
boy band, Super Junior, and main female group Girls Generation
were the top album sellers last year, according to  South Korea ’s
 Hanteo music chart .  Girls Generation’s videos, including “Run Devil Run,” and
Super Junior’s “Mr. Simple” have generated tens of millions of
views globally on Google Inc.’s YouTube. Shares of smaller label
JYP Entertainment Corp. have climbed 163 percent in 2011 on the
chart strength of its bands such as Miss A.  It was that kind of success that made YG decide to go
public, Chief Operating Officer Choi Sung Jun said in a phone
interview on Oct. 10.  Winter Sonata  “K-Pop is definitely getting attention these days,” he
said. “Even if investors aren’t fans of the music, their
teenage kids may buy the music and hum the songs. We hope that
familiarity means they’ll feel comfortable making bets on our
potential.”  K-Pop is now the main force behind the so-called Korean
Wave of popular culture, which started to spread across  Asia  in
early 2000s with television dramas such as “Winter Sonata.”
Japan, which has its own home-grown  music industry  known as J-
Pop, is the biggest market for Korean music, accounting for 69
percent of exports, the  Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency 
said in a June report.  Next is  Southeast Asia  with a 21 percent share and  China 
with 8 percent. The YouTube video site and other social-
networking services are helping to promote K-Pop in  Europe ,
which accounted for just 1 percent of Korean music exports, the
Seoul-based agency said.  Cultural Icons  In  France , hundreds of fans gathered in front of the Louvre
on May 1, demanding S.M. hold another showcase of its artists in
Paris after about 7,000 tickets for a June concert sold out in
15 minutes.  YG plans to use the proceeds from its share sale, arranged
by Daewoo Securities Co., to increase its pool of new artists,
add production staff and open offices abroad.  The company is headed by Yang Hyun Suk, a former member of
 Seo Taiji and Boys , a 1990s trio that mixed pop, rap, rock and
techno to become cultural icons in  Korea . Yang, 41, is YG’s
biggest shareholder with a 48 percent stake. The company posted
net income of 7.2 billion won in the first six months of this
year, from 5.6 billion won a year earlier.  “In the past, we may have been too conservative in
promoting our bands overseas,” YG’s Choi said. “With the
proceeds from the IPO we can make a push to get them
recognized.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Kyungbok Cho at 
 kcho7@bloomberg.net  