-- 
Yuan Falls as GDP Growth Trails Estimates, Europe Concerns Build

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-10-18T08:48:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/yuan-falls-as-gdp-growth-trails-estimates-europe-concerns-build.html
The yuan fell for the first time in
three days as the government reported a sharper slowdown in
third-quarter economic growth than analysts forecast.  The People’s Bank of  China  set a weaker reference rate as
 Germany  doused optimism  Europe ’s debt crisis will be resolved
this year. The internal and external environment for China’s
economic development is “rather complicated with numerous
instabilities and uncertainties,” the statistics bureau said
today in Beijing. Growth in factory output and retail sales
exceeded expectations in September, data showed.  “We missed on the GDP expectations but we had upside
surprise on industrial production and retail sales data, so it
does provide a bit of a neutral indication,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based currency strategist at Scotia
Capital, the investment banking unit of Bank of Nova Scotia.
“It’s risk aversion that is affecting the yuan. The typical
habit of euro-zone policy makers is to disappoint the markets.”  The yuan slid 0.17 percent to close at 6.3813 per dollar in
 Shanghai , having been 0.07 percent weaker before the gross
domestic product figures were released, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency is allowed to
fluctuate as much as 0.5 percent on either side of the central
bank’s daily fixing, which was set at 6.3749 today.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.21 percent
to 6.3975, a 0.3 percent discount to the spot rate, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the
yuan was little changed at 6.4318.  GDP, Output  The world’s second-largest economy expanded 9.1 percent
from a year earlier in the third quarter, the slowest pace in
two years, the statistics bureau reported. Economists expected
growth of 9.3 percent, based on the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  Industrial production climbed 13.8 percent in September,
more than the 13.4 percent projected in a Bloomberg survey.
Retail sales increased 17.7 percent, beating the 17 percent gain
projected in a separate poll.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s office yesterday ruled
out a complete fix to Europe’s debt crisis at an Oct. 23 meeting
of regional leaders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  