-- 
Yudhoyono Taps Veteran Trade Minister Pangestu to Build Indonesia Tourism

-- B y   F e m i   A d i   a n d   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 
2011-10-18T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/yudhoyono-taps-pangestu-to-head-indonesia-s-tourism-ministry.html
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono tapped Trade Minister Mari Pangestu to run the
country’s tourism and creative economy ministry in a cabinet
shuffle as the second-term leader faces falling approval ratings.  “I trust Mari Pangestu to lead the ministry,” Yudhoyono
said at a press briefing at the presidential palace in Jakarta
late yesterday. “I want, in the next three years, to develop
tourism and the creative economy. Mari Pangestu has been
successful in developing the creative economy and creative
industry.”  Pangestu, 54, was appointed trade minister in 2004, when
Yudhoyono was elected to his first term. She was an  executive
director  at Jakarta-based Centre for Strategic and International
Studies before that. She will be succeeded by  Gita Wirjawan , 46,
currently head of the government’s investment coordinating board.  Yudhoyono won a second five-year term with 61 percent of
the vote in 2009 on pledges to boost the economy, double
infrastructure spending and clean up graft. His public support
has fallen amid complaints he’s been slow to act, and after the
former treasurer of his Democrat party was accused of corruption.
Support reached a record low 46.2 percent in a nationwide survey
by Jakarta-based Indonesian Survey Circle, taken Oct. 5-10.  “Now is the right time,” Yudhoyono said, referring to the
cabinet changes. “Helped by the vice president, we did a mid-
term review. The evaluation is a must so that we can complete
the tasks of the next three years.”  Yudhoyono said developing the country’s domestic economy is
a priority for the remainder of his final term as president.  “With the global economy right now, I want our trading to
penetrate the global market,” he said. “On the other side, our
domestic economy is big, and getting bigger. We want the
domestic trade policy -- inter-island, inter-province, managed
well and developed.”  Exports, Challenges  Indonesia ’s 2011 exports may rise 25 percent in value to
$200 billion, and the government targets an increase of 18
percent to 20 percent next year, Pangestu said on Aug. 18.  “Trade policy won’t change much, and the market won’t
react since they already know the person,”  Fauzi Ichsan , a
Jakarta-based senior economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said.  Among challenges Wirjawan will face as trade minister is a
U.S. ban on clove cigarettes, after Indonesia failed in a bid to
the  World Trade Organization  to prove it was unnecessary.  Indonesia argued that U.S. tobacco legislation, signed by
President  Barack Obama  in June 2009, breaks global trade rules
because it outlaws cloves and not the mint used to make menthol
cigarettes. Indonesia, the world’s largest producer of clove
cigarettes, or kreteks, made by companies such as PT Gudang
Garam, has exports valued at $500 million a year, a fifth of
which go to the U.S.  Below is a table of Yudhoyono’s appointments:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Agus Suhana in Jakarta at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  