-- 
Zeltiq Aesthetics Raises $91 Million in Initial Public Offering

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-10-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-18/zeltiq-aesthetics-raises-91-million-in-initial-public-offering.html
Zeltiq Aesthetics Inc., a developer
of a fat-reduction technology, raised $91 million yesterday in
its U.S. initial public offering, pricing the shares below the
proposed range.  The Pleasanton, California-based company sold 7 million
shares at $13 each, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
after offering them for $14 to $16 apiece. The stock will start
trading today on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol ZLTQ.  The offering was the third in the U.S. since Sept. 1 after
plunging stock markets and surging volatility sapped investor
appetite for risk. At least 69 companies have withdrawn or
postponed U.S. IPOs this year, the most since the comparable
period in 2008, Bloomberg data show. Ubiquiti Networks Inc.
raised $105.6 million last week in the first IPO in more than a
month. Through yesterday, the stock had risen 27 percent since
the offering.  Zeltiq offers a method using so-called controlled cooling
to reduce fat bulges that can’t be eliminated through dieting or
exercise, according to a regulatory filing. The company received
U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval last year to market
the method, called CoolSculpting, for fat reduction on the part
of the body commonly known as “love handles.”  The procedure has also been approved in 46 international
markets, where its use is typically not limited to a specific
body part, according to the filing.  Revenue in the six months ended June 30 more than
quadrupled to $31.6 million from a year earlier, while the net
loss narrowed to $1.4 million from $8.5 million, according to
the filing.  Zeltiq said it plans to use proceeds from the IPO to pay
outstanding licensing fees and for research and development.The
offering was led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  