-- Maryland’s House Passes Same-Sex Marriage Bill, Sends to Senate
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/maryland-house-passes-bill-to-allow-same-sex-marriage-baltimore-sun-says.html
Maryland (STOMD1) ’s House of Delegates passed
a bill that would allow gay and lesbian couples to marry, moving
the state closer to becoming the eighth to permit same-sex
nuptials.  The House, which halted the advance of gay marriage
legislation last year, approved the bill 71-67 yesterday,
according to legislative records. That advances it to the
Senate, which approved it last year.  “There is still work to be done and marriage equality has
not yet been achieved in  Maryland ,” Democratic Governor Martin O’Malley, who supports it, said in a statement.  The advance inserts Maryland into the national debate over
whether to allow homosexuals to wed, as they now can in seven
other states and the District of Columbia. This week, the state
of  Washington  approved the practice, while New Jersey Governor
Chris Christie yesterday vetoed a bill that had been passed by
his Legislature Feb. 16.  While states have been moving to extend marriage rights to
same-sex couples since 2003, the unions aren’t recognized by the
federal government, which is banned from doing so as a result of
a law passed in 1996. That’s left the issue to be fought in the
states, where it’s been the focus of political and courtroom
clashes between advocates who say citizens are being denied a
civil right and those who see the practice as a threat to
traditional values.  In addition to the District of Columbia,  New York ,
Massachusetts, Connecticut, Iowa,  New Hampshire ,  Vermont  and
Washington permit the practice. This month, a federal appeals
court struck down a 2008 voter initiative that outlawed gay
marriage in  California , saying it was unfair to gay couples.
That ruling may send the matter to the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L) .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  