-- Australia Leadership Speculation Intensifies on Gillard Woes
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-02-18T05:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/australian-leadership-speculation-intensifies-on-gillard-s-woes.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  faces rising speculation the predecessor she ousted will
bid for a comeback, as her party trails in polls after pushing
through unpopular climate-change and mining-tax measures.  Foreign Minister Kevin Rudd may challenge Gillard as soon
as next month, The Australian newspaper reported today. Labor
Party cabinet ministers are criticizing the former leader and
lobbying for caucus votes in support of Gillard, concerned her
position is under threat, according to today’s  Sydney Morning
Herald . Both newspapers cited ministers they didn’t identify.  Since forming a minority government after the August 2010
election, Australia’s first female prime minister has seen her
popularity slump in the polls after forging agreements with the
Greens party and independent lawmakers on proposed legislation
such as a 30 percent tax on coal and  iron-ore  profits. Gillard,
50, won power in June 2010 in a late-night coup by ousting Rudd,
54, who saw his support fall amid a backlash from mining
companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  after proposing a 40 percent
tax on resources profits.  “Labor is very worried,” said John Wanna, a professor of
public administration at the Canberra-based  Australian National
University , who isn’t aligned with any political party. “It’s
starting to look like there’s enough heat in the newspapers that
there could be truth in talk of a Rudd challenge.”  Rudd’s Support  Rudd’s supporters estimate he has 40 of the 52 votes he
requires to win a challenge, the Australian reported today,
without saying where it obtained the information. Gillard’s
backers estimate she has 45 votes, with the rest of the 103
Labor lawmakers undecided.  Rudd will be overseas from tomorrow for meetings in 
 Washington ,  Mexico , Somalia, Tunisia and Malaysia until at 
least Feb. 24, he said in an e-mailed statement today.                 “It’s quite un-Australian the way  Kevin Rudd  and his
supporters are harrying and harassing Julia Gillard and not
giving her a moment’s peace,” the opposition coalition’s
Christopher Pyne said, according to the Australian Broadcasting
Corp. “While that’s going on, the Australian people are not
having their issues addressed.”  A documentary broadcast Feb. 13 questioned Gillard’s
version of when she decided to challenge Rudd for the Labor
Party leadership. The ABC program cited unidentified officials
in the party as saying her staff prepared a victory speech two
weeks before she ousted Rudd. Gillard denied requesting a draft
approval speech before her challenge and reiterated that she
decided to seek the party leadership the day she ousted Rudd.  Poor Polling  Gillard’s support among voters as preferred prime minister
fell 3 percentage points to 37 percent, with opposition leader
 Tony Abbott  rising 3 points to 40 percent, according to a
Newspoll survey conducted Feb. 10-12. The  Labor party ’s primary
vote rose 2 points to 32 percent, behind Abbott’s Liberal-
National coalition’s 46 percent. The Newspoll survey of 1,141
people had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  The slump came after Gillard faced hurdles last month
including an independent lawmaker’s decision to withdraw support
for the government, reducing its parliamentary majority to one,
and opposition demands for an inquiry into Labor’s role in
clashes between police and aboriginal protesters.  The speculation over Labor infighting contrasts with a more
successful legislative record under former union lawyer Gillard
compared with Mandarin-speaking ex-diplomat Rudd, who enjoyed an
absolute majority. Her government will implement taxes on  carbon
emissions  and coal and iron ore profits from July 1 as it
strives to return the budget to surplus by 2012-13.  Carbon Tax  The government will raise A$10 billion ($10.7 billion) a
year from the carbon tax by charging 500 polluters A$23 a ton
for carbon discharges by 2015, when the government-set price
gives way to a cap-and-trade system that allows companies that
create lower emissions than their cap to then sell unused
permits to other polluters.  A 30 percent tax on iron ore and coal profits is forecast
to raise A$7.7 billion in the first two years. She had another
legislative victory on Feb. 15 when  Australia ’s lower house
passed laws to introduce means-testing of rebates for private-
health insurance. Both laws are expected to be approved in the
upper house, where her government has the support of Greens, who
hold the balance of power.  The $1.3 trillion economy grew 2.5 percent in the year
through the third quarter of 2011, a period that spans the first
full 12 months of her leadership, according to the latest
figures available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics.  Abbott Criticism   Gillard’s bid to trumpet her government’s economic
credentials has been offset by criticism from Abbott, who says
Australians can’t afford the carbon tax. The opposition leader
has highlighted that last year the nation recorded its worst
jobs growth in 19 years as currency appreciation made
manufacturers uncompetitive.  Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 fell 2.08 percent last
week, compared with a 0.94 percent gain for the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index.  “Politics is becoming increasingly internal at the
moment,”  Mike Smith , chief executive of  Australian and New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. , said in an interview published in
the Australian Financial Review today. “Politics should be
focusing on positioning Australia for the future and the reforms
and policies needed to make the most of those opportunities.”  Export Industry  Australia’s export industry has suffered as the local
currency strengthened more than 60 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past three years, making products less competitive
in overseas markets.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the country’s largest
steel producer, last August shuttered its export division.
Toyota Motor Corp. and General Motors Co. have cut jobs in
Australia this year, citing the currency’s strength, while Alcoa
Inc. is reviewing the future of an aluminum smelter.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia, which unexpectedly left its
key rate unchanged at 4.25 percent on Feb. 7 after judging that
two cuts late last year would help the economy weather  Europe ’s
debt crisis, sees average growth of 3.5 percent in 2012, down
from its Nov. 4 estimate of 4 percent.  Consumer prices will rise 3 percent in the year through to
the fourth quarter, less than a previous prediction of 3.25
percent, the central bank said Feb. 10.  Australia’s Finance Minister  Penny Wong  shrugged off
speculation of a leadership challenge in an interview on  Sky
News  today.  “A lot of people are interested in this but the people who
elected us are much more interested in what we are doing when it
comes to their jobs and how we are managing the economy,” Wong
said. “The prime minister has delivered some very big reforms
and Prime Minister Gillard has done that in a context where she
hasn’t had the majority in the  House of Representatives . Those
are very significant achievements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  