-- Taviani Brothers’ ‘Caesar Must Die’ Wins Berlin Film Festival’s Top Prize
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-02-18T23:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/taviani-brothers-caesar-must-die-wins-berlin-film-festival-s-top-prize.html
“Caesar Must Die,” a documentary
about inmates in an Italian prison staging Shakespeare’s
“ Julius Caesar ,” last night won the Golden Bear award for the
best movie at the Berlin Film Festival.  Directed by Paolo and Vittorio Taviani, the film features
prisoners from the Roman maximum security prison Rebibbia, many
of them serving time for Mafia-related crimes. In accepting the
prize, Vittorio Taviani named the prisoners who featured in the
film and greeted them “in the solitude of their cells.”  “Among the inmates were a lot who had got life sentences,
serious criminals,” Taviani said. “This play was a kind of
liberation for them.”  The Berlin Film Festival sold more than 300,000 tickets as
almost 400 movies were shown over the 10-day event. Among the
stars who flew in were  Angelina Jolie  and  Meryl Streep , who won
a lifetime achievement award. Winning a prize in Berlin, which
considers itself the second most important film festival in the
world after Cannes, can raise a movie’s profile and help it to
get broader international release.  “Just the Wind,” a Hungarian film directed by Bence
Fliegauf, won the Silver Bear runner-up prize. The fear-packed
drama shows a day in the life of a Roma family after a fatal
racist hate-crime attack on their neighbors. The movie is based
on real events: Between 2008 and 2009, 16 Roma homes in  Hungary 
were attacked with Molotov cocktails, shotguns and rifles. Six
people died and criminal proceedings are continuing.  Western Lover  Christian Petzold won the Silver Bear award for best
director for “Barbara,” the story of an East German doctor who
has applied to leave the country. After being arrested, she is
transferred as punishment from Berlin to the provinces where she
plans her escape with a lover from the west.  The Silver Bear for best actor went to Mikkel Boe
Foelsgaard for his role in “A Royal Affair.” The movie also
won the Silver Bear for best script. Written by director Nikolaj
Arcel and Rasmus Heisterberg, it captures a period of Danish
18th-century history in which a physician wins the mad king’s
confidence and pushes through progressive reforms that anger the
nobility and the wealthy.  Rachel Mwanza won the Silver Bear for best actress for her
role in “War Witch,” the grimly powerful tale of a young girl
recruited as a soldier by rebels fighting the government in an
African civil war. Mwanza, an amateur, said the film and her
prize present “the opportunity of a lifetime.”  Portuguese Winner  “Tabu,” a black-and-white movie about the life of a
headstrong, difficult woman by the Portuguese director Miguel
Gomes, won the Alfred Bauer Prize for particular innovation.  A “special mention” Silver Bear went to “Sister,”
directed by Ursula Meier. Set in the Swiss Alps and starring
Kacey Mottet Klein and Lea Seydoux, the movie contrasts the
wealthy skiers at a resort with those eking out an existence by
the main road below.  The eight-member international jury selecting the winners
was led by  Mike Leigh  and included actors Charlotte Gainsbourg
and  Jake Gyllenhaal .  For more information, go to  http://www.berlinale.de/en/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 