-- Barak Says Iran Sanctions Have Further to Go Before Military Strike Needed
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-18T21:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/barak-says-iran-sanctions-have-further-to-go-before-military-hit.html
Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak 
called for “tight, ratcheted-up” sanctions against Iran to
force the country to curb its nuclear ambitions, and said the
political process had further to go before a military strike.  “We’re still in the sanctions stage and we expect them to
become even more tight,” Barak said at a press conference today
in  Tokyo  at the end of a four-day visit. “I think there is
consensus in most capitals of the world that Iran should not be
allowed to turn into a nuclear military power.”  Action against Iran’s nuclear facilities must be considered
before the country achieves “the same kind of immunity as  Kim Jong Il ,” Barak said, referring to the late North Korean leader
who defied pressure to abandon a nuclear weapons program.  The U.S. and European Union have increased sanctions
against Iran’s oil industry and financial system, saying the
measures are necessary to force concessions from Iran over its
nuclear program. Iran has been under United Nations
investigation since 2003 for suspected atomic weapons work.  The standoff has raised tensions in a region that holds
more than half of the world’s oil reserves. Iranian officials
have threatened to cut off the  Strait of Hormuz , through which
about a fifth of crude trade passes.  Oil Prices  Crude oil prices increased 4.8 percent in February on
concern the tensions between Iran and Israel will lead to a
military conflict that disrupts oil supplies from the Persian
Gulf. Iran is OPEC’s second-biggest producer.  An Israeli attack on Iran would be “destabilizing and
wouldn’t achieve their long-term objectives,” U.S. Army General
Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff,
said.  “It’s not prudent at this point to decide to attack
Iran,” Dempsey said in an interview with CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria
GPS,” scheduled to be broadcast tomorrow. The U.S. government
is confident the Israelis “understand our concerns,” he said,
according to an e-mailed transcript.  The UN Security Council has passed four sets of sanctions
against nuclear officials and companies in Iran. UN nuclear
inspectors will return to Tehran for a second time in a month
for meetings with Iranian atomic officials Feb. 21-22.  The U.S. has sent the White House National Security Adviser
Tom Donilon to  Israel  for a two-day visit beginning today.  Economic Sanctions  Dempsey said the economic sanctions imposed on Iran and
international pressure are beginning to have an effect, without
elaborating.  The European Union agreed on Jan. 23 to ban any
oil imports from Iran, and the U.S. denied access to its
financial system for any foreign bank that conducts business
with the Central Bank of Iran. The EU oil sanctions will take
effect in July.  “We are of the opinion that Iran is a rational actor,”
Dempsey said. “We also know, or we believe we know, that the
Iranian regime has not decided” to make a nuclear weapon, he
said. Iran says its enrichment of uranium is for making power
while Israel says it’s aimed at making weapons.  Direct Talks  Iran wants direct talks on its nuclear program at the
“earliest possibility,” the country’s top nuclear negotiator,
 Saeed Jalili , wrote in a Feb. 14 letter to European Union
foreign policy head  Catherine Ashton . Ashton and Secretary State
 Hillary Clinton , who met in  Washington  yesterday, welcomed the
initiative.  Swift, the global bank-transfer service, said yesterday it
is prepared to impose sanctions against Iranian financial
institutions once the EU sets out implementation rules.  Barak said Iran should be hit with “sanctions against the
central bank and removing its access to international clearing
systems.” Countries can’t hide behind the threat of losing oil
from Iran in deciding whether to take action, because  Saudi
Arabia  is ready to increase production and exports from  Iraq  are
also increasing, he said.  Japan  is seeking an exemption from a U.S. law that would
punish its banks unless it cuts Iranian oil imports, while
saying it has reduced Iranian crude purchases by 40 percent in
the past five years and will continue to do so.  Iran  said this week it had installed 3,000 “new-
generation” domestically made centrifuges at its main nuclear
research reactor in Natanz in central Iran, describing it as a
“major” breakthrough. The U.S. downplayed the news, with State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  calling it “hyped” in
order to boost nationalism.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government blames Iran
for this week’s car bombings of Israeli diplomatic vehicles in
 New Delhi  and the Georgian capital of Tbilisi. Two men with
Iranian passports were also detained in Bangkok after
explosions.  Support for Syria  Separately, an Iranian destroyer and supply ship docked in
the Syrian port of Tartus yesterday to train Syria’s navy, after
passing through the Suez Canal, Iran’s state-run Press TV
reported today. It was only the second time Iranian ships
entered the Mediterranean since the 1979 Islamic revolution, the
 Islamic Republic News Agency  reported.  Iran supports Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, who is
being urged to quit by the U.S. and allies after 11 months of
violence against protesters. The UN estimates that more than
5,400 Syrians had died by the end of last year, while Saudi
Arabia says the death toll is at least 7,000.  Dempsey told  CNN  it’s too early to arm the Syrian
opposition because it’s difficult to identify.  “I think intervening in Syria would be very difficult,”
he said. Syria is “an arena right now for all of the various
interests to play out. And what I mean by that is you’ve got
great power involvement:  Turkey  clearly has an interest, a very
important interest,  Russia  has a very important interest, Iran
has an interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net 
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  