-- Canadian Currency Rises Against Most Major Peers on Risk Demand
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-18T05:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/canadian-currency-rises-against-most-major-peers-on-risk-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar rose against most of
its major counterparts, trading at almost a three-month high
versus the U.S. currency, as speculation Greece will win its
second bailout next week fueled demand for higher-risk assets.  The currency almost erased last week’s loss against the
greenback as crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, climbed to
a nine-month high and stocks rallied. Data spurred speculation
the economy of the U.S., Canada’s largest trade partner, is
improving. Retail sales slipped in December, a report next week
in Ottawa is forecast to show.  “The Canadian dollar did well, particularly because it’s
associated with oil,” said  Thomas Molloy , chief dealer at FX
Solutions LLC, an online currency trading company in Saddle
River,  New Jersey . “This week’s numbers have been very good for
the broad recovery, particularly in the U.S. That has
contributed to a risk-on sentiment.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.5 percent to
99.68 cents per U.S. dollar yesterday in Toronto, from C$1.0014
a week earlier. It touched 99.38 cents Feb. 15, approaching the
99.26 cent level it reached Feb. 9, the strongest since Oct. 31.  The loonie lost 0.8 percent in the five days ended Feb. 10,
breaking the longest stretch of weekly gains since October.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback declined this week, approaching a
10-month low. It touched 7.77 percent yesterday after reaching
7.66 percent on Feb. 10, the least since April. Implied
volatility, which traders quote and use to set option prices,
signals the expected pace of currency swings. It averaged 10
percent over the past year.  Bonds Little Changed  Government bonds  were little changed, with the benchmark
 10-year note  yielding 2.04 percent and trading at C$110.16.  Two-
year (GCAN2YR)  yields touched 1.11 percent, the highest level since Oct.
28, before ending the week at 1.07 percent.  Canada will auction C$400 million ($400 million) of
inflation-linked securities on Feb. 22, according to a statement
on the central bank’s website. The 1.5 percent real-return bonds
mature in December 2044.  Risk appetite swelled as U.S. Commerce Department data on
Feb. 16 showed housing starts increased last month more than
forecast to a 699,000 annual rate, and the Labor Department
reported that initial claims for  unemployment benefits  slid last
week to 348,000, the fewest since March 2008.  ‘More Upbeat’  “There has been a nice little pickup for the Canadian
dollar as markets are certainly more upbeat,” Blake Jespersen,
director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal in Toronto,
said on Feb. 16. “The U.S. data is continuing to surprise in
many aspects.”  Canadian  consumer prices  rose 2.5 percent in January from a
year earlier, beating the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey,
 Statistics Canada  data showed yesterday. Factory sales in Canada
rose for second month in December, advancing 0.6 percent. The
figure trailed a 2 percent increase forecast in a survey of
economists by Bloomberg News.  Retail sales  declined for the first time in five months in
December, slipping 0.1 percent, economists in a Bloomberg Survey
forecast before Statistics Canada reports the data on Feb. 21.  The loonie gained as the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index rose
1.4 percent for the week and touched highest level yesterday
since May. The currency tends to rise and fall with stocks, and
has a 60-day correlation coefficient of 0.82 with the  S&P 500 . A
reading of 1 would indicate they move in lockstep.  Crude Climbs  Crude oil advanced for a second week. March futures rallied
5.1 percent, the most since December, to $104.06 a barrel in  New
York . They touched $104.14 yesterday, the highest since May 11.
The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of commodities rose 1.7
percent in its first weekly gain since Jan. 27.  Raw materials ,
including crude, account for about half of Canada’s export
revenue.  “The Canadian dollar has really been tracking equities,”
said  Shane Enright ,  executive director  at Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit in Toronto. “The
commodity bloc as a whole has been gaining. Overall sentiment is
still pretty good”  New Zealand ’s dollar and  Norway ’s krone were the top two
performers this week among the greenback’s 16 most-traded
counterparts, and Canada’s dollar was No. 5. All three countries
export commodities.  The loonie weakened on Feb. 15 as European leaders wrangled
over a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) aid package for  Greece . A
meeting of euro-area finance ministers that day was canceled as
officials prodded the country to agree to more austerity
measures, and Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said
wealthier euro-area nations were “playing with fire.”  Bond Redemption  Greece, where  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis began more
than two years ago, faces a bond redemption on March 20. It must
come up with 14.5 billion euros or become the first country in
the euro’s 13-year history to default.  Germany , the biggest country contributor to euro-area
rescues, signaled yesterday that finance chiefs may be ready to
back the bailout when they meet Feb. 20 in Brussels. A bond
exchange with private investors is also part of the effort.  “Everything is euro-zone related,” said Molloy at FX
Solutions. “There is an important meeting next week, and
hopefully Greece will be bailed out and that will give us a few
days’ break from that issue.”  The loonie rose 1.8 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Currency Indexes. The  U.S. dollar 
weakened 1.7 percent, and the euro dropped 4.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  