-- Chelsea Ties Birmingham 1-1 in Soccer’s F.A. Cup as Everton, Bolton Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-18T19:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/chelsea-ties-birmingham-1-1-in-f-a-cup-as-everton-bolton-win.html
Sunderland beat Arsenal 2-0 to
advance to the quarterfinals of English soccer’s F.A. Cup, as
Chelsea rallied to tie Birmingham 1-1.  Kieran Richardson ’s first-half goal helped Sunderland to
the fifth-round victory, while Chelsea needed a 62nd-minute
score from  Daniel Sturridge  to avoid an upset against Birmingham
of the second-tier Championship.  “The main thing is we’re through to the next round,”
Richardson said in an interview with ITV. “The team performance
was top notch. We deserve it.”  Everton and Bolton both defeated Championship teams 2-0 to
reach the final eight, while Norwich was eliminated. Everton
beat Blackpool, Bolton won at Millwall and Norwich lost 2-1 at
home to the Championship’s Leicester City.  Sunderland’s home win sends it to the quarterfinals for the
first time since 2004 and keeps Arsenal on course for a seventh
straight season without a trophy.  The Black Cats took the lead in the 40th minute when  Thomas Vermaelen  headed Sebastian Larsson’s free kick toward
Richardson, whose shot took a slight deflection off Sebastian
Squaillaci into the corner of the net.  Sunderland clinched the victory in the 78th minute as a shot
from Larsson hit the post and rebounded in off Alex Oxlade-
Chamberlain for an own goal.  Today’s draw will maintain pressure on first-year coach
Villas-Boas as Chelsea’s poor run of form continued. The Blues
have three ties and a loss since their last victory over QPR in
the F.A. Cup fourth round on Jan. 28.  “It was not good enough, for sure,” Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas said on the club’s website. “It’s never satisfying
when you draw at home to a Championship team.”  First Goal  Birmingham took the lead in the 20th minute as  David Murphy 
was left alone at the far post to score off a corner kick.
Chelsea’s Ramires was tripped by Wade Elliott in the area
minutes later, but goalkeeper Colin Doyle dived to stop  Juan Mata ’s penalty kick.  Chelsea tied the score 17 minutes into the second half when
Sturridge headed in Branislav Ivanovic’s cross, setting up a
replay at Birmingham’s St. Andrews stadium on March 6.  “We stood up to the challenge of coming to the home of one
of the top Premier League sides and imposed ourselves on the
game,” Birmingham manager  Chris Hughton  said on the club’s
website. “I’m very proud of that.”  Royston Drenthe scored after just 48 seconds and Denis
Stracqualursi added a goal five minutes later as Everton
advanced to the quarterfinals for the second time in nine years.
Blackpool’s  Kevin Phillips  sent a penalty kick over the crossbar
in second-half stoppage time.  Ryo Miyachi and  David N’Gog  scored at the Den in  London  as
Bolton, a semifinalist last year, ended Millwall’s best F.A. Cup
run since reaching the final in 2004.  Sean St. Ledger and David Nugent had the goals as Leicester
knocked Norwich out of the F.A. Cup for the fifth straight time.
Wes Hoolahan scored for the Canaries.  The fifth round concludes tomorrow as Crawley Town visits
Stoke, Tottenham hosts Stevenage and Liverpool is at Brighton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  