-- China’s January Housing Prices Post Worst Performance in a Year on Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-18T02:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/china-s-january-housing-prices-post-worst-performance-in-a-year-on-curbs.html
China ’s January  home prices  recorded
their worst performance in at least a year, with none of the 70
cities monitored by the government posting gains as Premier Wen Jiabao reiterated his determination to maintain property curbs.  Prices in 47 of the cities fell, while home values in the
remaining 23 were unchanged from December, the National
Statistics Bureau said in a statement on its website today. New
home prices in the nation’s four major cities of Shanghai,
Beijing, Shenzhen and Guangzhou declined for a fourth month.  The data reflects a two-year effort by China to battle
rising home prices with measures ranging from higher down
payments,  mortgage rates  to home purchase restrictions in 40
cities. None of the cities posted gains in home prices for the
first time since the government began releasing at the start of
2011 prices for 70 cities surveyed instead of a national average.  “The falling downtrend of home prices will strengthen in
coming months as the government tightening continues,” said
Alan Jin, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. “The figures won’t prompt the central
government to release the curbs any time soon, because it
probably would like to observe and study the market further.”  China won’t waver on its real-estate controls and efforts
to bring home prices down to a reasonable level to ensure
fairness and stability, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said during a meeting
with business executives on Feb. 12.  Wenzhou’s Falling Prices  The eastern city of Wenzhou posted the biggest drop for the
third month, with home prices declining by 0.6 percent in
January, according to the Statistics Bureau. A credit squeeze on
smaller businesses in the city prompted a visit and pledge of
financial aid from Wen in October.  New home prices in Beijing and Shanghai declined 0.1
percent, the data showed. Housing values in Shenzhen slid 0.2
percent and dropped 0.3 percent in Guangzhou.  Today’s figures came after private data also showed signs
of cooling. China’s average home prices fell for a fifth month
in December, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s
biggest real estate website.  Home sales in China’s four key cities declined during the
week-long Lunar New Year holiday at the end of January.
Transactions in Beijing,  Shanghai , Guangzhou and Shenzhen fell
66 percent to 109 units, compared with the same holiday period a
year earlier, Centaline Property Agency Ltd., China’s biggest
real-estate brokerage, said Jan. 30.  Falling home prices fueled an attempt by China’s smaller
cities’ to release tightening on property policies. The eastern
city of Wuhu was the first Chinese city this year to ease
measures ordered by the central government by waiving a deed tax
and subsidizing some home purchases. The move was suspended
three days later, following the outcome of a similar attempt in
October by Foshan in southern China.  China’s property policies are likely to “phase out” this
year as it will hurt real estate investment and local
governments’ economic growth, Liu Li-gang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said
ahead of today’s release.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  