-- Dutch Prince’s Life Still in Danger After Skiing Accident
-- B y   J o h n   B u c k l e y
-- 2012-02-18T13:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/dutch-prince-friso-s-condition-still-critical-after-avalanche-while-skiing.html
Friso van Oranje, the second son of
 Queen Beatrix  of the Netherlands, remains in critical condition
in an Austrian hospital after a skiing accident yesterday, the
 Dutch Government Information Service  said.  The team of specialists treating him at the intensive care-
trauma unit of the hospital in Innsbruck reported no change in
the prince’s condition, the information service in The Hague
said in a statement today.  “He is still in critical condition but had a quiet and
stable night,” the information service said.  Friso, 43, one of two younger brothers of Dutch Crown Prince Willem-Alexander, was trapped in an avalanche while
skiing off-piste yesterday at the western Austrian ski resort of
Lech, where the royal family regularly spends vacations. He was
recovered by the Lech mountain rescue service and volunteers and
was transported by helicopter to Innsbruck. Snowfall and strong
winds had raised the risk of snowslides in many parts of the
Austrian Alps, where two skiers died in an avalanche the
previous day, according to the  Austria  Press Agency.  Doctors have been keeping Friso in an artificial coma since
he was rescued from the snow, Dutch press agency ANP reported.
Willem-Alexander and younger brother Constantijn have flown with
their families to Austria, according to ANP, joining the Queen
and Friso’s wife, Princess Mabel.  Marriage to Mabel  Friso is not in the succession to the Dutch throne. He gave
up his claim in 2003 by deciding to marry Mabel Wisse Smit
without parliament’s permission. She had provided incomplete
information to the government during a background check about
her past relationship with the late Klaas Bruinsma, the former
head of a Dutch criminal organization.  No longer a member of the Royal House and having given up
his status as Prince of the Netherlands, Friso retained the
title of Prince of Oranje. He joined Urenco Ltd., a London-based
uranium enrichment company, as chief financial officer in
January 2011. He previously was a managing director at
Wolfensohn & Co. and had worked at McKinsey & Co. in Amsterdam
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s investment banking unit in
 London . He and Princess Mabel have two daughters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Buckley  in Amsterdam at 
 johnbuckley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  