-- The Six Mistakes of Germany’s Finance Minister: Charles Wyplosz
-- B y   C h a r l e s   W y p l o s z
-- 2012-02-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/the-six-mistakes-of-germany-s-finance-minister-charles-wyplosz.html
One can accuse Germany’s finance
minister of many things, but not of hiding his views. By saying
that a Greek default is possible because the rest of the euro
area can now bear it,  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has simply admitted
that the strategy adopted since late 2009 has been designed to
protect Germany, not to help Greece. By further suggesting that
elections be delayed in Greece and that technocrats replace the
remaining politicians holding ministerial jobs, Herr Schaeuble
has shown how little he cares about elementary democratic
principles.  Greece is being told by the so-called troika -- the
European Commission, the  International Monetary Fund  and the
 European Central Bank  -- to undertake reforms of historical
proportions, and to impose ever more cruel  fiscal policies . The
Greek parliament, elected before the crisis on a classic wishy-
washy platform, has no mandate to carry out these policies, no
matter how good they might be for the country. It would seem
natural to hold an early election that would ask the Greek
people what they are willing to stomach, now that they have been
duly warned of the alternatives. Such contempt for democracy is
deeply disturbing.  Schaeuble’s economic analysis of the situation is equally
bad. His views contain no less than six technical mistakes.  First, the view that the rest of  Europe  is ring-fenced is
an illusion. This illusion harkens back to the May 2010 decision
to bail out Greece. Schaeuble argued then that this violation of
the European Union’s no-bailout rule was meant to prevent
contagion and a Greek default. Contagion has happened, with no
end in sight. The German minister now supports a default that
has in effect become unavoidable, because his prescriptions have
failed.  Second Mistake  One reason why his policies failed -- his second mistake --
is the imposition of fiscal austerity during a  recession , and
the denial of any link when things got worse.  The troika says
it’s surprised by the depth of the continuing decline of the
 Greek economy  and the associated quasi-absence of budget-deficit
reduction. There should be no surprise here, this is textbook
economics. Yet Schaeuble continues to believe that austerity can
enhance growth, against both principles and evidence.  Third, Schaeuble deeply misunderstands the current lull in
market turmoil, much as he misunderstood the crisis back in
2010. He has embraced the Good Marios theory, according to which
 Mario Draghi ’s ECB has brought the crisis to an end, and  Italy 
under Prime Minister Mario Monti has definitely turned the
corner. Both Marios are doing a great job, but we aren’t out of
the woods.  The abundant emergency loans provided by the ECB have
simultaneously eliminated the threat of a liquidity crisis and
allowed banks to buy bonds issued by Italy,  Spain  and other
countries on the market’s radar screen. Hats off to Mario
Draghi.  Mario Monti  has pleased Schaeuble by imposing fiscal
austerity. As in Greece, Italy’s recession will soon deepen and
the deficit won’t improve enough to prevent an increase in the
 debt-to-GDP ratio . If adopted and enacted, Monti’s reforms will
accelerate growth, but many years from now, not anytime soon.
Meanwhile, markets will take notice of the rising debt ratio and
Italy will look like “unique” Greece and “good”  Portugal : fodder
for a sovereign default.  The fourth mistake Schaeuble made is to believe that a
voluntary Greek default, otherwise known as private-sector
involvement, will settle the situation. We now have seen weeks
of painful and confused negotiations involving the Greek
authorities, the bank lobby and the troika. The stated objective
is to bring  Greece ’s  debt  down to 120 percent of gross domestic
product. This cannot be right. In 2006, just before the crisis,
the debt stood at 110 percent of GDP, a level that officials
soon declared unsustainable. The same officials now assert that
120 percent is acceptable. It isn’t, obviously.  Reasonable Objective  Once we realize that the Greek government will have to
issue fresh debt to bail out its banking system, a more
reasonable objective is to aim at bringing the existing debt to,
say, 60 percent of GDP. That means an involuntary default.  Fifth, Schaeuble reminds us that Greece is unique and
special, meaning that the measures currently under discussion
won’t be repeated for other countries. Remember how this exact
promise was made at the time of the Greek bailout? That was
before the Irish and Portuguese bailouts.  It is very hard to imagine that Portugal won’t follow
Greece. Its fiscal policy  record  is every bit as dismal:
Portugal’s budget hasn’t been balanced since 1960, when records
start, while Greece had its last surplus in 1972 (under a
military junta, unfortunately). The austerity imposed on
Portugal will produce the same effects as in Greece. In fact,
the troika has already started to express surprise. By the time
Portugal defaults, Italy will be ripe to join the ranks of
“unique countries.” And when Italy defaults, banks will shake
everywhere, raising the prospect of a similar event for the
likes of  France  and, perhaps,  Germany .  The sixth mistake of Schaeuble is the idea that a voluntary
default financed by the banks will shield German taxpayers. This
is fully consistent with his view that Greece must be forced to
do what is good for Germany, which, unfortunately, isn’t
possible, as argued above. Eventually, as Greece defaults,
German banks, euro-area central banks and the European Financial
Stability Fund will have to absorb some of the losses. This will
happen again when Portugal defaults, and the losses will become
very substantial if Italy follows. Imposing austerity on Italy
raises the odds of an event likely to push Spain and France into
default as well. It is even plausible that Germany will be
dragged down if its banks need to be rescued.  At that stage, German taxpayers will ask Minister Schaeuble
a few hard questions. Well, this is why the Greeks invented
democracy.  ( Charles Wyplosz  is professor of economics at the Graduate
Institute of International and Development Studies in Geneva.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Charles Wyplosz at  charles.wyplosz@graduateinstitute.ch   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  