-- ECB’s Visco Says Europe Must Counter Contagion Risk
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-02-18T14:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/ecb-s-visco-says-europe-must-counter-contagion-risk-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of Visco’s first name in first
paragraph.)  European Central Bank council member
Ignazio Visco said it’s important to counter the “threat of
dangerous contagion” by resolving the Greek crisis.  “The difficulty in resolving the Greek crisis, evident in
recent days, is transmitting turbulence to the entire European
market,” Visco, who is also head of  Italy ’s central bank,  said 
today in a speech in Parma, Italy. “The action of the ECB, the
incisive budget measures taken in the countries suffering from
the worst financial turmoil, and the reaching of an agreement
for stronger cooperation under the fiscal compact have succeeded
more recently in easing the strains in the government securities
markets and in banks’ balance sheets.”  Euro-area governments closed in on a deal to unlock a 130
billion-euro ($171 billion) aid package for  Greece , seeking to
avert the region’s first sovereign default, with  Germany 
signaling that finance ministers may be ready to back the
country’s second bailout. Greece’s struggle to give assurances
on debt-reduction goals through the end of the decade has
heightened uncertainty as the clock ticks toward a March 20 bond
redemption when it must pay 14.5 billion euros.  The ECB on Dec. 21 allotted a record 489 billion euros in
three-year loans to euro-region banks, the first of two such
operations. The second longer-term refinancing operation, or
LTRO, is set for the end of this month.  Visco said the central bank’s liquidity provisions, while
“not a cure in itself,” are “crucial in the present phase.”  Averts Risk  “It has averted the imminent risk of an acute funding
crisis with repercussions on credit and severely destabilizing
consequences,” he said. “It makes it possible to maintain a
high level of financing for the economy.”  Italy (GDBR10) ’s banks received gross funding of 116 billion euros
in the first LTRO, corresponding to net refinancing of 60
billion euros, according to Visco. While the first operation
“substantially eased the funding tensions,” the second
liquidity provision on Feb. 29 will “further sustain the supply
of credit,” he said.  Still, “monetary policy alone cannot resolve the crisis,”
said Visco, who called on governments to lower their budget
gaps, carry out structural reforms and “rapidly” implement the
rules of the fiscal compact.  Germany has led pressure on Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  to enforce austerity in his country, stoking
recrimination between  Europe ’s southern countries and their
northern creditors. Greece’s economy, stuck in what is predicted
to be a fifth year of recession, shrank 7 percent from a year
earlier in the fourth quarter as unemployment climbed to 20.9
percent in November.  Primary Surplus  In Italy, the region’s third-largest economy, three budget
packages passed between July and December should lead to a
primary surplus around 5 percent of gross domestic product in
2013 and a reduction in the debt ratio, Visco said. This year
will be “a year of recession,” with gross domestic product
declining 1.5 percent, he said.  “It’s important to look ahead, to act in such a way that
as conditions in the financial and credit markets return to
normal, it will be possible to stabilize the economic activity
in Italy already by the second half of 2012 and return to growth
next year,” he said. “Investor uncertainty over Italian
 government securities  has eased with respect to the worst
moments of the crisis, but has not disappeared.”  Italy’s banks, while “sound,” have been “especially hard
hit” by the region’s debt crisis, he said. In December, loans
to companies contracted by about 20 billion euros, while lending
to households “diminished only slightly,” according to Visco.
There may have been “a slight further contraction in credit in
January,” he said, citing preliminary data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  