-- Greece Identifies $427M in Budget Cuts
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-02-19T08:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/greece-identifies-eu325-million-in-budget-cuts-papademos-says.html
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said
Greece found all the extra cuts needed to lower spending by 325
million euros ($427 million) to secure a bailout aimed at
averting the region’s first sovereign default.  The government identified “a series of additional measures
amounting to 125 million euros in order to complete the package
of budget cuts worth 325 million euros,” Papademos told
ministers at a meeting of the Cabinet in Athens yesterday,
according to an e-mailed transcript.  Finance ministers from all 17 euro-area countries meet in
Brussels tomorrow as governments close in on a deal to unlock a
130 billion-euro aid package for Greece, the second such
international bailout of the country in two years. Germany, the
biggest country contributing to euro-area rescues, signaled last
week that ministers may be ready to back the plan.  The steps, which Greece has agreed in principle with the
 International Monetary Fund , the European Union and the  European
Central Bank  will lead to a permanent cut in  government spending 
and a narrower deficit, Papademos said.  Greece has been struggling to give assurances on debt-
reduction goals through the end of the decade, heightening
uncertainty as the clock ticks toward a March 20 bond
redemption, when it must pay 14.5 billion euros or trigger the
first default in the euro’s 13-year history. Tomorrow’s
gathering of ministers is due to start at 3:30 p.m. instead of
the usual 5 p.m.  Avoid Split  After a week of wrangling among euro-area officials,
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government indicated it aims to avoid
splitting the timetable for providing aid and for a writedown of
Greek debt to private bondholders and to agree to the deal as
one package.  “The ongoing saga will likely go down to the wire and is,
yet again, another reminder of the fragile nature of the state
of affairs in  Europe  and the potential for a disorderly
default,” Michael Gapen, a New York-based economist at  Barclays
Capital , said in a note.  Germany has led pressure on Papademos to enforce austerity,
stoking recrimination between Europe’s southern countries and
their northern creditors. Greece’s economy, stuck in what is
predicted to be a fifth year of recession, shrank 7 percent from
a year earlier in the fourth quarter as unemployment climbed to
20.9 percent in November.  ‘Unique Case’  “Greece is really a unique case and we need to avoid first
of all that it exits the euro,” Maria Cannata,  Italy ’s director
of public debt, said late yesterday at an event in Parma, Italy.
“Then we need to find a solution which is as painless as
possible and we need to send the message that the contagion has
been stopped and that  Greece  is Greece and it isn’t Portugal nor
Ireland, let alone Spain or Italy.”  Papademos said yesterday that though cuts in pensions could
not be avoided, the impact is “‘milder’’ than it appears. A
person getting a monthly pension of 1,500 euros will face a
reduction of 12 percent on the amount above 1,300 euros, leading
to a loss of 24 euros.  In focus over the weekend will be the role of the ECB, as
it holds talks on exempting Greek bonds in national central
banks’ investment portfolios from a debt restructuring, two
euro-area officials said.  Second Bailout  Investors anticipating a conclusion of the seven-month
effort to complete the second bailout for Greece sent the  euro 
and global stocks higher last week. The euro gained as much as
0.5 percent against the dollar on Feb. 17.  ‘‘ Monetary policy  alone cannot resolve the crisis,’’ ECB
council member Ignazio Visco said at an event in Parma, Italy,
yesterday, when calling on governments to lower their budget
deficits. ‘‘The threat of dangerous contagion must be
definitively dispelled by resolving the problem of Greece.’’  Merkel, Papademos and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
discussed plans for the Greek bailout in a conference call on
Feb. 17 and were confident that ministers will ‘‘find a solution
to open questions’’ when they meet in Brussels, Steffen Seibert,
Merkel’s chief spokesman, said in a statement.  While Greek lawmakers this month passed austerity measures
that are required for the aid, the euro-area ministers heard on
a Feb. 15 conference call that Greece would miss debt-reduction
goals without further measures.  Greek Debt  Greece’s debt would fall to 129 percent of gross domestic
product in 2020, missing a target of 120 percent, said three
people familiar with the talks, who declined to be named because
they are still in progress. Last year, the level was about 160
percent.  Germany ’s Die Welt newspaper reported yesterday that Greece
may cut its debt to less than 125 percent of GDP by 2020, citing
unidentified people involved in the discussions.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  signaled
flexibility on that target, saying in Stuttgart on Feb. 17 that
‘‘the 120 percent may be 122 percent or 123 percent, it mustn’t
be 130 percent.”  “It will definitely take until Sunday night” to resolve
the outstanding questions, Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus told reporters in Berlin.  Keeping the bond swap on track may hinge on the ECB. The
bank is swapping its Greek bonds for new ones to ensure it isn’t
forced to take losses in any debt restructuring, three euro-area
officials said on Feb. 16. The move may be completed by Feb. 20,
the officials said.  ‘Positive Outcome’  That could pave the way for a private-sector bond swap that
aims to slice about 100 billion euros off Greece’s debt
alongside the second bailout. More controversial is the proposal
for national central banks to take part in the private exchange
by accepting losses on Greek bonds in their portfolios.  “Markets are likely anticipating a positive outcome with
voluntary participation of the private sector and possibly some
ECB involvement,”  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of
 Scotland  in  London , said by e-mail. Even so, “Greece is likely
to remain a key risk for the euro area as the implementation of
the program feeds the theme of exit from the monetary union.”  ECB Executive Board member Peter Praet said in an interview
with  De Tijd  and L’Echo newspapers published yesterday that the
central bank can’t participate in a private-sector debt
writedown of Greek assets. Greece’s austerity plan is
“feasible,” he said.  Swap Transaction  Euro officials are targeting a window of Feb. 22 to March 9
to complete the swap transaction, German lawmakers were told
during a briefing by government officials. The swap would begin
by March 8 at the latest and be completed by March 11, the
state-run  Athens  News Agency reported.  The Greek government is meanwhile drawing up legislation
that could be used to impose losses on investors who don’t
support the debt swap, according to two euro-region officials
familiar with the situation. The law may be introduced to
parliament in Athens in the coming days, said one of the
officials. Finance ministers are prepared to back the use of so-
called collective-action clauses if the voluntary swap doesn’t
draw enough participation, the other person said.  The bond exchange can only go ahead once governments
authorize the European Financial Stability Facility to provide
30 billion euros, to be used in cash or collateral as an
incentive to investors.  With Greece’s ability to honor its debt-cutting pledges
still in question, finance ministers may again withhold approval
of the bailout even if they back the bond exchange, Citigroup
Global Markets analysts said. That would push the dispute closer
to a March 1-2 summit of European leaders.  Holding back euro-area policy makers is “widespread
skepticism about the credibility of Greece’s political system as
a whole and its ability to implement what has already been
agreed,” according to Nomura Global Economics analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  