-- Indonesia’s 2012 Rubber Output May Fall as Rain Cuts Tapping
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-02-18T09:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/indonesia-s-2012-rubber-output-may-fall-as-rain-cuts-tapping-1-.html
Indonesia ’s natural-rubber
production, the world’s second largest, may decline 3.2 percent
this year as heavy rain reduced tapping, reversing a previous
forecast for a gain in output, an industry group said.  Output may fall to 3 million metric tons from 3.1 million
tons last year, according to Asril Sutan Amir, chairman of the
Rubber Association of Indonesia. That compares with the group’s
estimate last month for a 6.5 percent gain to 3.3 million tons.  Falling supplies from Indonesia, the largest producer after
 Thailand , may help extend a 21 percent rally in the price of
natural rubber this year on expectations demand from the
automotive industry will increase.  “I’ve been traveling to plantations in the main producing
areas in Sumatra and Kalimantan and there’s still heavy rain
there,” Amir said in an interview in Jakarta today. “We’re in
the seasonally low production period and output will be much
lower if the rain persists until the second-quarter.”  Exports may decline to about 2.45 million tons from 2.6
million tons, Amir said. He forecast rubber price to stay at a
range of $3.7 to $4 a kilogram until end of the second quarter.  Rubber futures for July delivery rose 1.3 percent to 318.1
yen, or $4, a kilogram on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
yesterday.  The association is opposing a plan by Indonesia’s Industry
Ministry to impose a tax on rubber exports, said Daud Husni
Bastari, a member of the advisory board at the group.  “There’s no urgency to impose the duty,” Bastari said at
a press conference in Jakarta. “A tax is needed if there’s a
supply shortage to domestic buyers, but there’s no such issue at
the moment. An export tax will only hurt farmers as processors
may cut the purchasing price.”  The Industry Ministry is studying a plan to impose a tax on
natural-rubber exports this year to secure domestic supplies,
Kontan reported in December, citing Industry Minister Mochamad Hidayat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  