-- Intel Deal Steels Mellanox for Market Control: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-02-19T14:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/intel-deal-steels-mellanox-for-market-control-israel-overnight.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the
Israeli adapter maker that reported record 2011 sales, said it’s
ready to take on  Intel Corp. (INTC)  in the business of data transfer
after the world’s largest chipmaker became its biggest rival.  Shares of the Yokneam Elit, Israel-based company  plunged 
the most in four months in New York after  QLogic Corp. (QLGC)  disclosed
on Jan. 23 the sale of its fast data transfer and storage
systems assets to Intel for $125 million in cash, boosting
competition for the Israeli firm, which controls 85 percent of
the market.  “Even if we’ll have a smaller part of the pie, it’s a
bigger pie now,” Mellanox Chief Executive Officer Eyal Waldman
said in a Feb. 17 interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New
York . “The acquisition shows the technology is required and now
people feel more comfortable that Mellanox and Intel are
dominating the market.”  Mellanox, which reported better-than-estimated fourth-
quarter earnings at the end of January, surged to a record in
both New York and Tel Aviv last week, leaving the U.S.-traded
stock at a 60-cent discount to the Israeli shares. The  Bloomberg
Israel-US 25 Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest U.S.-traded Israeli companies
climbed 0.9 percent to 91.98 last week, while the  TA-25 Index (TA-25) 
declined 1.1 percent. The measure gained 0.6 percent at the 4:30
p.m. close in Tel Aviv today.  U.S. shares of Mellanox gained 3.3 percent to $37.85 last
week, touching an all-time high of $38.11 on Feb. 15. The  Tel
Aviv  stock declined 1.3 percent to 141.9 shekels, or the
equivalent of $37.95, today.  ‘Like Baby Food’  Mellanox, whose products are used at data centers,
investment banks and  stock exchanges  to transfer and store data
quickly, will  probably post  a 30 percent increase in revenue
this year, according to the median estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Orders should remain consistent even with mounting concern
about a Greek bailout and the global economy, Waldman said.  “Technology spending is like  baby food , there’s always
going to be a need for it,” he said. “There’s so much data out
there and people want to have fast and easy access to it.”  The global market for cloud computing, which allows users
to store data and programs on offsite computers and access them
via the Internet, is predicted to rise to $241 billion in 2020
from $40.7 billion in 2011, according to Forrester Research Inc.  Waldman -- who worked from 1989 to 1993 at  Santa Clara ,
California-based Intel’s office in Haifa, where he holds a
patent on the synchronization mechanism of future 64-bit
architecture -- established Mellanox in 1999. He sold a chip
designer he founded, Galileo Technology Ltd., to Hamilton,
Bermuda-based  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  for $815 million of
stock in 2001.  ‘Not Standing Still’  Mellanox’s product is more advanced than that of QLogic and
Intel will have to come up with an equivalent technology before
the Israeli company makes improvements, he said.  “It will take Intel some time until they have something
that’s comparable to what we have,” Waldman said. “And don’t
forget, we’re not standing still.”  “Our acquisition of QLogic’s Infiniband business opens up
new opportunities for competition and innovation in
supercomputing,” Radoslaw Walczyk, a spokesman for Intel, said
by e-mail on Feb. 17. “Their fabric technology is used in many
of the world’s top supercomputers today and supplements our
current portfolio.”  Mellanox, which  bought  Voltaire Ltd. for $208 million last
year, has about $63 million in cash from operations and is in
talks with several companies for another possible acquisition.  “A lot of companies are approaching us,” Waldman said.
“We’ll only do another acquisition if we think it will help us
grow faster.”  Oracle Investment  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s second-largest software company
that bought a 10.2 percent stake in Mellanox in October 2010, is
basing future growth on the Israeli company, he said. The share
deal was struck to prevent a “hostile takeover,” Waldman said.  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the  Nasdaq ,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China . The
country is also home to more startup companies per capita than
the U.S.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , an Israeli maker of high-speed
networking equipment,  climbed  8.4 percent to $17.48 last week,
the biggest five-day increase since Dec. 2. The company’s Tel
Aviv shares retreated 9.1 percent to 61.38 shekels in the same
period, or the equivalent $16.41. The $1.1 premium was the
biggest among dually traded companies. The shares in Tel Aviv
advanced 5.6 percent today to 64.82 shekels.  ‘Strongly Positioned’  “Business momentum remains solid,”  Ittai Kidron , an
analyst at Oppenheimer Holdings Inc., wrote in an e-mailed
report last week. “Allot is strongly positioned to benefit”
from expansion in mobile companies, he said.  Perrigo Co. (.PRGOARB) , the largest U.S. maker of generic over-the-
counter drugs, advanced 1.7 percent to $94.90 last week. They
advanced 1.9 percent to 357.80 shekels, or the equivalent of
$95.68, in Tel Aviv today.  The Allegan, Michigan-based company was  rated 
“overweight” in initial coverage by Morgan Stanley.  “Perrigo is a long-term double-digit earnings growth
company,” David Risinger, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in New
York, wrote in an e-mailed report on Feb. 17. “Perrigo is among
the best positioned for long-term U.S. generics growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  