-- Irish to Fete China’s Xi With Riverdance as Investment Sought
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-02-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/irish-to-fete-china-s-xi-with-riverdance-as-investment-sought.html
Ireland plans to treat China’s Vice
President  Xi Jinping  to a castle banquet and a private
performance of Riverdance as it seeks investment from the
world’s most populous nation to help it return to growth.  Xi, who is likely to succeed President  Hu Jintao , is
scheduled to arrive at Shannon Airport in western Ireland at
4:30 p.m. today after a visit to the U.S. where he met President
 Barack Obama . Ireland’s government is hoping Xi’s visit will
help bolster exports as it recovers from a recession triggered
by the collapse of its property bubble in 2008.  “We will be discussing with the vice president the
opportunities for investment in Ireland,” Irish Foreign
Minister  Eamon Gilmore  said in an interview Feb. 15. Gilmore
said while he expects the visit to “set the context for
increased trade and investment” between the two countries, he
doesn’t “envisage” talks on possible Chinese purchases of
 Irish sovereign debt .  Ireland, which accepted an international bailout in 2010,
is aiming for full re-entry to bond markets by mid-2013, Finance
Minister  Michael Noonan  said in December. Chinese Premier  Wen
Jiabao  said in Beijing this past week that his country is
willing to get “more deeply” involved in helping to resolve
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  China’s central bank fund bought 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) of 10-year bonds that Spain sold earlier this month,
the Spanish financial daily Expansion said yesterday, citing
unidentified people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Cliffs of Moher, Cows  Xi, 58, who visited Ireland previously in 2005, will also
visit the farm of James and Maura Lynch in County Clare in
southwest Ireland tomorrow. Lynch, whose family farm dates back
almost 400 years, has a herd of pedigree Friesian dairy cows and
beef cattle. Lynch visited  China  in November as part of an Irish
agricultural trade mission.  After a private visit to one of Ireland’s most well-known
scenic spots, the Cliffs of Moher, Xi will travel to Dublin
tomorrow to meet Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  and take in an
exhibition of Gaelic football and hurling, an Irish game similar
to field hockey.  Xi will sign a number of agreements with Ireland on the
promotion of trade and investment during the three-day visit.
Ireland’s merchandise exports to China were valued at 2.25
billion euros in the first 11 months of last year, just 2.6
percent of Ireland’s total, according to data from the nation’s
 Central Statistics Office  this past week.  Ireland’s economy  has shrunk by about 15 percent since the
property bubble imploded in 2008, with export growth in 2011
estimated by the central bank to have helped return the country
to full-year growth last year for the first time in four.
Ireland’s exports, bolstered by the presence of U.S.
multinationals, are bigger than its entire gross domestic
product.  The central bank earlier this month lowered its 2012 growth
forecast for Ireland to 0.5 percent from 1.8 percent, citing
declining consumer spending and slower export growth.  Xi will travel to  Turkey  from Ireland on Monday, Feb. 20,
after visiting the Irish parliament, meeting with Irish
President Michael D. Higgins and attending a trade and
investment forum.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  