-- Israeli Attack on Iran Would Be Destabilizing, Joint Chiefs’ Dempsey Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-02-19T20:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/israeli-attack-on-iran-would-be-destabilizing-joint-chiefs-dempsey-says.html
An Israeli attack on  Iran  would be
“destabilizing,” Army General Martin Dempsey, the chairman of
the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, said.  “It’s not prudent at this point to decide to attack
Iran,” Dempsey said today on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS”
program. The U.S. government is confident the Israelis
“understand our concerns,” he said.  Amid U.S. concerns that Israel may initiate military action
against Iran’s nuclear sites, White House National Security
Adviser Tom Donilon began a two-day visit to Israel yesterday to
discuss Iran and other issues, such as the turmoil in Syria.
Iran has been under United Nations investigation since 2003 over
suspected nuclear weapons work.  “A strike at this time would be destabilizing and wouldn’t
achieve their long-term objectives,” Dempsey said of the
Israelis. “I wouldn’t suggest, sitting here today, that we’ve
persuaded them that our view is the correct view and that they
are acting in an ill-advised fashion.”  Crude  oil prices  increased 4.8 percent in February on
concern the tensions between Iran and Israel will lead to a
military conflict that disrupts oil supplies from the Persian
Gulf. Iran is OPEC’s second-biggest producer. Iranian officials
have threatened to cut off the Strait of Hormuz, through which
about a fifth of crude oil trade passes.  Iran Stops Exports  Iran has stopped exporting crude oil to French and British
companies, the oil ministry’s news website  Shana  reported today,
citing ministry spokesman Alireza Nikzad Rahbar. The EU agreed
Jan. 23 to ban Iranian oil imports starting July 1.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  signed a bill on Dec. 31 that
tightened sanctions by denying access to the U.S. financial
system to any foreign bank that conducts business with the
Central Bank of Iran.  Swift, the global bank-transfer service, said last week it
is prepared to impose sanctions against Iranian financial
institutions once the EU sets out implementation rules.  The UN Security Council has passed four sets of sanctions
against nuclear officials and companies in Iran. UN nuclear
inspectors will return to Tehran for a second time in a month
for meetings with Iranian atomic officials Feb. 21-22.  Iranian Politics  Iran said last week it had installed 3,000 “new-
generation” domestically made centrifuges at its main nuclear
research reactor at Natanz in the center of the country,
describing it as a “major” breakthrough. The U.S. has
downplayed the news, with State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  calling it “hyped” in order to boost nationalism.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government blames Iran
for last week’s car bombings of Israeli diplomatic vehicles in
New Delhi and the Georgian capital of Tbilisi. The attacks come
after the deaths of several Iranian nuclear scientists, the most
recent in a Jan. 11 car bombing in Tehran that Iran said Israel
had orchestrated.  Dempsey said the economic sanctions imposed on Iran, as
well as international pressure, are beginning to have an effect,
without elaborating.  “We are of the opinion that Iran is a rational actor,”
Dempsey said. “We also know, or we believe we know, that the
Iranian regime has not decided” to make a nuclear weapon, he
said. Iran says its enrichment of uranium is for making power
while  Israel  says it’s aimed at making weapons.  Israeli View  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  called yesterday for
“tight, ratcheted up” sanctions against Iran to force the
country to abandon its nuclear ambitions.  “I think there is consensus in most capitals of the world
that Iran should not be allowed to turn into a nuclear military
power,” Barak said at a press conference in  Tokyo .  Military action against Iran’s nuclear facilities must be
considered before the country achieves “the same kind of
immunity as Kim Jong Il,” Barak said, referring to the deceased
North Korean leader who defied international pressure to abandon
a nuclear weapons program.  Senator John McCain of  Arizona , the top Republican on the
Senate Armed Services Committee, said today on ABC’s “This
Week” that sanctions haven’t “deterred the Iranians so far.”  Iran Seeks Talks  Iran wants direct talks on its nuclear program at the
“earliest possibility,” the country’s top nuclear negotiator,
 Saeed Jalili , wrote in a Feb. 14 letter to European Union
foreign policy head  Catherine Ashton . Ashton and U.S. Secretary
State  Hillary Clinton , who met in Washington Feb. 17, welcomed
the initiative.  Germany ’s Foreign Minister,  Guido Westerwelle , warned today
against further escalation in the nuclear dispute with Iran.  “We will jointly examine with our partners in substance
the Iranian offer of dialogue, which was sent in writing,” he
said in a statement.  Separately, Dempsey said on CNN that it’s too early to arm
the Syrian opposition, because it’s difficult to identify.  “I think intervening in  Syria  would be very difficult,”
he said. Syria is “an arena right now for all of the various
interests to play out. And what I mean by that is you’ve got
great power involvement:  Turkey  clearly has an interest, a very
important interest,  Russia  has a very important interest, Iran
has an interest.”  Training Syria’s Navy  An Iranian destroyer and supply ship docked in the Syrian
port of Tartus Feb. 17 to train Syria’s navy, after passing
through the Suez Canal, Iran’s state-run Press TV reported
today. Iran supports Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, who is
being urged to quit by the U.S. and allies after an 11-month
crackdown on protests.  China and Russia vetoed a resolution at the UN Security
Council earlier this month calling on Assad to step down in
favor of an interim government. The UN estimates that more than
5,400 Syrians had died by the end of last year as Assad sought
to quell protests that began in March, while  Saudi Arabia  says
the death toll is at least 7,000.  “Bashar al-Assad is a relatively weak guy” with “a lot
of very strong people around him,”  Edward Walker , former U.S.
ambassador to Israel and  Egypt , said today on CNN’s “State of
the Union” program. “Those people realize that if they give
up, they are dead.”  Michael Hayden, who served as CIA director in Republican
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, suggested on the same
program that a safe haven be created in northern Syria to
protect the civilian population and provide an area for the
opposition to coalesce.  The safe area could possibly be created “under the Turks,
but with broad international sanction,” though the idea is
“probably not quite ready for primetime,” Hayden said.  The “real dark scenario” is continuing with the status
quo, Hayden said.  “What we’re seeing now bleeding into Syria, particularly
from Iraq, is al-Qaeda and Islamic fundamentalism,” he said.
“As long as this stays frozen, you’ll see the opposition, I
fear, take on more of this characteristic, and that can’t be
good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  