-- Spanish, Italian Bonds Rise on Greece Aid Deal Optimism; German Bunds Drop
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-02-18T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/italian-spanish-bonds-rise-on-bets-greece-is-closer-to-aid-deal.html
Italian bonds rose for a sixth week,
the longest run of gains since August 2006, on speculation
European officials were closing in on a deal to grant  Greece  a
second financial bailout package.  Spanish government debt also rose, snapping two weeks of
losses, as the country met its 4 billion-euro ($5.3 billion)
funding target at a sale of notes and bonds. The  European
Central Bank  swapped Greek bonds that it bought under its
Securities Market Program for new ones, euro-area officials
said. The exchange may pave way for a private-sector bond deal
and convince the region’s finance ministers to agree to provide
an aid package when they meet in Brussels on Feb. 20.  “There are a lot of uncertainties still, but at least the
market seems to no longer think the remaining details will be
sufficiently dangerous and difficult to derail the whole
process,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of European fixed-income
strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London . “This has supported semi- and peripheral bonds.”  Italy’s 10-year yield fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, in the week to 5.58 percent at 4:13 p.m.
London time yesterday. The two-year yield dropped five basis
points to 3.06. Spanish 10-year rates declined five basis points
from last week to 5.25 percent.  Italian bonds have been the best performers among euro-
region investment-grade bonds this month, handing investors a
2.2 percent return, followed by a 2.1 percent gain on Irish
bonds, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The
securities have rallied as the risk of contagion from a Greek
restructuring wanes. Portuguese bonds surged 23 percent.  Bunds Fall  German 10-year bonds fell yesterday after Italy’s Prime
Minister  Mario Monti , German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Greek
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  expressed optimism an agreement
on Greece can be reached. Bunds were little changed on the week
after wrangling among euro-area finance ministers had raised the
prospect of a bailout delay.  Germany will sell as much as 5 billion euros of new two-
year notes maturing in March 2014 on Feb. 22 while Italy will
offer zero-coupon and index-linked bonds at auction two days
later.  France , the Netherlands, Spain and the European Financial
Stability Facility will sell securities due within one year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at =7073-3403 or
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  