-- Jeremy Lin’s Win Streak Ends as New York Knicks Lose 89-85 to New Orleans
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-02-18T05:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/jeremy-lin-s-win-streak-ends-as-new-york-knicks-lose-89-85-to-new-orleans.html
Jeremy Lin’s six-game winning streak
as starting point guard for the  New York Knicks  ended with an
89-85 loss to the  New Orleans  Hornets, who entered the game with
the  National Basketball Association ’s second-worst record.  “I don’t think he expected to go without a defeat this
year,” Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni  told reporters after Lin’s
first loss as a starter. “I think he’s fine.”  The 23-year-old Lin had 26 points, nine turnovers and five
assists last night as the Knicks’ seven-game winning streak came
to an end.  “Nine turnovers is obviously never going to get it done
from your primary ballhandler,” Lin told reporters. “I think
everyone wants to credit me for this last seven games, then I
definitely deserve this one on my shoulders.”  Lin, who went 8-for-18 from the field, had eight turnovers
in the first half.  “I just told him he was trying to make the hardest pass
out there, he was trying to make the home run pass,” D’Antoni
said, referring to Lin’s turnovers. “That’ll happen for young
guys.”  Trevor Ariza had 25 points for the shorthanded Hornets
(7-23), while point guard Greivis Vasquez added 15 points and 11
rebounds with three turnovers at  New York ’s  Madison Square
Garden. (MSG)   “It’s the NBA, man,” Vasquez told reporters. “I mean,
the kid is really good. I love his passion. What I love about
him is he is so humble. He deserves everything he got right now
and everything he is going through because, you know, the way he
handles himself.  ‘Little Bit Different’  ‘‘But tonight it was a little bit different,’’ Vasquez
added. ‘‘We came out and played great team defense.’’  New Orleans, which has won three straight games and ended a
six-game losing streak against the Knicks, was without leading
scorer Eric Gordon and leading rebounder Emeka Okafor, both
sidelined with knee injuries.  The Knicks (15-16) played their sixth straight game without
leading scorer Carmelo Anthony, who remains sidelined with a
groin injury.  New York-area customers of  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  were able
to watch the game after Madison Square Garden Co. and the cable
company reached an agreement on a new contract yesterday, ending
a seven-week stalemate that blacked out Knicks games in their
home market.  The average ticket price for last night’s game on the
secondary market was $557, triple the price of less than two
weeks earlier, according to TiqIQ, an aggregator of the online
resale market. Tickets were averaging $181 on Feb. 7, the
morning after Lin first joined the starting lineup, TiqIQ said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  