-- Krugman Embraces Keynesian Label to Defend Government Stimulus Spending
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-02-18T04:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/krugman-embraces-keynesian-label-to-defend-government-stimulus-spending.html
Nobel-prize winning economist  Paul Krugman  maintained his calls for government spending to create
jobs after being labeled a “crude Keynesian” by fellow
academic  Jeffrey Sachs .  “The job of the government” is “to step in,” Krugman, a
professor at  Princeton University , said at a panel discussion at
New York’s  Metropolitan Museum  of Art yesterday.  Sachs, an economics professor at Columbia University who
also spoke on the panel, criticized Krugman earlier this month
for not paying enough attention to the growing federal  debt .
Sachs said the government should focus more on investing in
long-term programs like education instead of short-term stimulus
measures.  “We need plans, we need decade-long investments,” said
Sachs, whose books include “The Price of Civilization” and
“The End of Poverty.” Instead, he said, “We get year-to-year
improvisation that passes for some kind of stimulus.”  Krugman, 58, said more spending is needed to battle
 unemployment , which has held above 8 percent since February 2009,
the longest such run since the monthly record-keeping began in
1948. Nonetheless, the rate is starting to drop, reaching a
three-year low of 8.3 percent in January.  “Krugman has staked out a rather crude Keynesian position
and unrelentingly so,” Sachs said Feb. 9, referring to John  Maynard Keynes , the British economist who advocated government
spending to spur growth during the Great Depression. Krugman
“knows one thing, which is stimulus, stimulus, stimulus and
expand deficit spending,” Sachs, 57, said in the television
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene .  Federal Debt  Total federal debt held by the public has more than doubled
as a share of U.S. gross domestic product in the last decade. It
totaled 72 percent of GDP last year, compared with 35 percent in
2000, according to calculations by the Office of Management and
Budget.  “So I’m the Keynesian on this panel,” Krugman said
yesterday after fellow panelist and Nobel-prize winning
economist  Edmund Phelps  also referred to “crude” Keynesianism.
“I’ve been saying that the next guy who calls me ‘crude,’ I’m
going to call him out and punch him in the schnoz,” he said to
laughter from the audience of more than 700 in the museum’s
Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium.  Advance tickets cost $25 and were sold out, and standing-
room tickets offered the same day also sold out an hour before
the panel began. The discussion was organized by the
Metropolitan Museum, the New York Review of Books Foundation and
the Fritt Ord Foundation of Oslo and was moderated by Robert
Silvers, editor of the New York Review of Books.  ‘Exploding’ Spending  Phelps, also a professor at  Columbia University , said that
“entitlement spending has been exploding,” and that the idea
that “by pushing the right buttons we can dial the unemployment
levels we want” has been “discredited.”  Krugman, who is also a New York Times columnist, said the
U.S. has a “short-run problem” that could be solved in a
couple of years if the nation had the “political will and
intellectual clarity.”  The  U.S. economy  is forecast to grow at a 2.2 percent rate
this year, up from 1.7 percent in 2011, according to the median
forecast of 79 economists in a survey by Bloomberg News
conducted from Feb. 3 to Feb. 9.  Krugman, Sachs and billionaire investor  George Soros , who
was also on the panel, praised European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi ’s efforts to stem the sovereign debt crisis in
 Europe .  Increased Liquidity  When Draghi “very deftly increased liquidity, it changed
the perspective from what was unmitigated disaster and a self-
fulfilling crisis over the cliff, to what is a very painful
period for Greece but not a catastrophe, even for the other
countries of Southern Europe,” Sachs said. “The mood is
brighter.”  Draghi has pointed to signs of stabilization in the euro-
area economy and said the ECB averted a credit crunch with its
three-year loans to banks in December. The central bank will
offer a second round of financing at the end of this month.  Soros said that Draghi “did relieve the credit crunch” in
Europe, which is “very important.”  Euro-area governments are closing in on a deal to unlock a
130 billion-euro ($171 billion) aid package for Greece, seeking
to avert the region’s first sovereign default.  Germany , the biggest country contributor to euro-area
rescues, signaled that finance ministers may be ready to back
Greece’s second bailout in two years when they meet Feb. 20 in
Brussels. Germany has led pressure on Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  to enforce austerity in his country, stoking
recrimination between Europe’s southern countries and their
northern creditors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  