-- New York to Pursue Ernst & Young Lawsuit
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-18T21:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/new-york-to-pursue-ernst-young-lawsuit.html
Ernst & Young LLP, bankrupt  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH) ’s former auditor, should “disgorge”
$125 million in fees earned in an alleged fraud involving so-
called Repo 105 transactions that concealed tens of billions of
dollars in debt, the New York attorney general said.  Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  asked a judge today to
let him pursue the suit after the auditing firm tried to get it
dismissed. The state is limited by law from recovering the fees
for itself or for Lehman’s former shareholders, Ernst & Young
said.  “E&Y is wrong on every count,” Schneiderman said in a
court filing in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan . “It is well-
settled that the state can, and frequently does, obtain
disgorgement of ill-gotten gains under public enforcement
statutes.”  Repo 105 transactions are a form of short-term financing
that Lehman used to move as much as $50 billion off its balance
sheet temporarily to show investors it wasn’t carrying too much
debt, according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report. The report
was used as a basis for many suits, including one that Ernst &
Young is fighting by investors including the Alameda County
Employees’ Retirement Association, which alleges the firm made
misleading statements about Lehman’s finances before its 2008
bankruptcy.  Standards, Rules  Charlie Perkins, an Ernst & Young spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to a call and e-mail after regular business
hours seeking comment on the attorney general’s filing. The
auditing firm has said its work for Lehman met all applicable
professional standards and applied rules that existed at the
time.  Schneiderman said  New York  wasn’t suing on behalf of
Lehman’s shareholders and could distribute money obtained from
the suit “in any manner that serves justice, including to the
state.”  Lehman filed the biggest U.S. bankruptcy in history in
September 2008 with $639 billion in assets. It has said it will
spend the next few years completing a liquidation to pay
unsecured creditors less than 18 cents on the dollar.  The case is People of the State of New York v. Ernst &
Young LLP, 11-cv-00384, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  