-- N.Y. Can Ban Use of Schools for Worship
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/new-york-can-enforce-ban-against-use-of-schools-for-worship.html
New York  City can enforce a ban on
the use of public schools for worship services, a U.S. appeals
court said, restricting a judge’s temporary halt on the ban to
only the group that brought the lawsuit.  “The district court’s finding that Bronx Household has
shown likelihood of success on the merits of its case does not
justify enjoining the board from enforcing its order against non-
parties,” the appellate court in  Manhattan  said yesterday.  U.S. District Judge  Loretta Preska  on Feb. 16 granted a 10-
day temporary order blocking the city’s ban. The Bronx Household
of Faith had sought the order to allow its members to continue
meeting in a  New York City  public school on Sundays, in
contravention of an order that went into effect Feb. 13.  Last year, the appellate court, overturning Preska’s 2007
decision in favor of the church, ruled that the city may
prohibit religious groups from using school facilities outside
of regular school hours for “religious worship services.”  The legal battle dates to 1995, when the Bronx Household of
Faith, an evangelical Christian church, sued the city. The
church argued the city was violating the First Amendment by
denying it use of a school while allowing other community groups
access to campuses for their activities.  The U.S. Supreme Court in December refused to consider the
appeals court’s ruling reversing Preska’s decision. Lawyers for
the church returned to argue before Preska that the city’s ban
violates the First Amendment’s free exercise clause, which
forbids government interference in religious activities.  Jordan Lorence, a lawyer with the Alliance Defense Fund in
 Washington  who represents the Bronx Household of Faith, said in
a phone interview the appeals court’s order didn’t deal with the
merits of the case.  “It’s somewhat disappointing but it’s not a major
ruling,” Lorence said.  The case is The Bronx Household of Faith v. Board of
Education of the City of New York, 01-cv-08598, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  