-- Obama Urges Congress to Reward Companies That Keep Jobs in U.S.
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-02-18T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/obama-urges-congress-to-reward-companies-that-keep-jobs-in-u-s-.html
President  Barack Obama  urged
Congress to enact tax proposals that reward technology companies
and other businesses that help create jobs in the U.S. rather
than overseas.  Boeing Co., whose Everett, Washington, jet factory Obama
visited yesterday, has “put thousands of folks to work all over
the country,” Obama said in his weekly radio and  Internet 
address. “We want to see more of this. We need to make it as
easy as we can for our companies to create more jobs in America.
And that starts with our  tax code .”  Obama said U.S. businesses created 3.7 million new jobs
over the past 23 months, adding, “Companies like Boeing are
realizing that even when we can’t make things cheaper than
 China , we can make things better. That’s how we’re going to
compete globally.”  “No company should get a tax break for outsourcing jobs,”
Obama said. He urged helping “manufacturers who set up shop
here at home,” particularly technology companies. “And Congress
should send me that kind of  tax reform  right away.”  The address also is airing a day after Obama’s advisers
said in an annual White House report to Congress that they
expect the  U.S. economy  will gain strength this year and add 2
million jobs.  A “plausible range” for the average  unemployment rate 
this year would be between 8 percent and 8.6 percent, the report
said, citing private forecasters.  Attacking Obama Budget  Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers of  Washington , in the
Republican radio and Internet  response , criticized the $3.8
trillion budget plan Obama proposed on Feb. 13 and the $831
billion stimulus bill of 2009, which marked its third
anniversary yesterday. The budget plan wouldn’t meet Obama’s
pledge to cut the deficit by half by the end of his first term.  The forecast shows a fiscal 2012 deficit of $1.33 trillion,
or 8.5 percent of the economy, marking the fourth straight year
the shortfall will exceed a trillion dollars. That’s up from the
administration’s estimate in September of $956 billion.  Rodgers said about $2 trillion, or more than half the
proposed savings in the budget plan, come from reductions
already in the law, while another almost $1 trillion comes from
a “war gimmick” of “money that was never requested and will
never be spent on wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan .”  “Do the math and you’ll discover that the president’s
budget only achieves, at most, about a tenth of the savings it
promises,” she said.  Rodgers also noted that the administration forecast the
stimulus would keep unemployment below 8 percent. The rate in
January was 8.3 percent, the lowest in almost three years.  The report yesterday from White House advisers said that
policies, including the 2009 stimulus, allowed the U.S. a better
recovery than that typical of countries after a financial
crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  