-- Hong Kong Bourse Bids for London Metal Exchange, SCMP Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-02-18T05:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/hong-kong-bourse-bids-for-london-metal-exchange-scmp-says.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. 
has bid for the  London  Metal Exchange in an attempt to diversify
into commodities trading, the South China Morning Post reported,
citing two sources it didn’t name.  The bourse had put in a “high bid,” the English-language
newspaper said, citing one of the sources. No bid price was
disclosed.  The LME, which handles about 80 percent of global trade in
metals futures, has a “good number of bids” to consider for a
possible takeover when the board meets on Feb. 23, spokesman
Chris Evans said yesterday. Bidders include  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , according to three
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Two calls outside of normal office hours to Scott Sapp, a
spokesman for the Hong Kong’s exchange, went unanswered.  Hong Kong’s exchange, the largest by market value, aims to
introduce commodities trading, Chief Executive Officer Charles
Li said in November. The bourse is seeking other revenue sources
after Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  tumbled 20 percent
last year, its first annual drop since 2008.  An LME bid will need 75 percent approval from the
exchange’s owners, which include Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. More than $37 billion of exchange mergers
announced in the past 15 months failed because of populist
outcry, antitrust concern and volatile markets.  Regulatory Stumble  Deutsche Boerse AG was blocked from buying New York-based
NYSE Euronext by European competition regulators this month.  CME Group, based in Chicago, owns the Comex exchange, which
handles gold, silver and copper futures. Atlanta-based ICE, the
second-largest U.S. futures market, offers trading in crude oil,
coffee and sugar. The LME trades copper, aluminum, nickel, zinc,
tin, lead, steel and minor metals such as cobalt.  Atlanta-based IntercontinentalExchange, owner of ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London, would bring “the most to the
table” if it acquires the LME, according to KBW Inc. in  New
York . ICE could bring LME’s clearing activity in-house and add
more electronic trading in the same way it did after its
acquisition of the New York Board of Trade in 2007,  Niamh Alexander , an analyst at KBW, said in a report dated yesterday.  The deadline for bids was Feb. 15 and the LME said in
September it got more than 10 “expressions of interest.” A
committee comprising Chief Executive Officer  Martin Abbott  and
three other directors of LME Holdings Ltd. will review the bids.
The LME is being advised by U.S. investment bank Moelis & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  