-- Henry Tang Should Quit Hong Kong Leadership Election, Newspaper Poll Shows
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   B e n   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2012-02-19T01:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/hong-kong-holds-building-probe-into-leadership-election-front-runner-tang.html
More than half of Hong Kong people
say  Henry Tang , the front-runner to be the city’s next leader,
should end his election campaign because of a scandal over an
illegal addition to one of his homes, according to a poll.  Tang blamed his wife for building a 2,200 square foot
basement in a Kowloon Tong house that was in her name, though
connected to a property he owns in the upmarket district. A poll
commissioned by the South  China  Morning Post showed 51.3 percent
of respondents thought Tang should quit, while 79.5 percent said
the incident reflected poorly on his integrity.  The widening scandal threatens to upset what was expected
to be a smooth transition from retiring Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  to a candidate backed by the majority of  Hong Kong ’s
business and political elite, as well as the government in
Beijing. China’s Communist Party leadership may ditch Tang, 59,
who has trailed in surveys gauging support among Hong Kong’s 7.1
million people, most of whom don’t have a say in the 1,200-
strong election committee that picks the leader.  “It wouldn’t reflect well on them to ignore Hong Kong’s
public opinion,” said Willy Wo-lap Lam, an adjunct professor of
history at the  Chinese University of Hong Kong , adding that the
Beijing leadership may switch its support to Leung Chun-ying.
“Henry Tang and C.Y. Leung are both acceptable candidates to
Beijing. If C.Y. Leung’s popularity improves, then Beijing may
change their support.”  The poll of 516 people was carried out on Feb. 16 and 17 by
the University of Hong Kong on behalf of the territory’s leading
English-language newspaper. The margin of error was plus or
minus 2.2 percentage points, the newspaper said today.  Government Probe  The survey also showed mounting public disapproval for Tang,
with 63.1 percent of 183 people polled on Feb. 17 saying he
should end his election campaign, from 44.8 percent of 333
people on Feb. 16.  The poll was carried out before the government said
yesterday its officials are conducting a probe into whether Tang
and his wife submitted false documents when submitting planning
documents for the home. Hong Kong newspapers, including  Apple
Daily  and the  South China Morning Post , have reported that the
basement contained a wine cellar, wine-tasting room, movie
theater and Japanese-style bath.  More than 90 percent of private homes in Hong Kong are
smaller than 100 square meters (1,076 square feet), according to
the government’s Ratings and Valuation Department in 2011.  Tang last week said the illegal work was carried out after
the Buildings Department had issued an occupation permit, which
verifies there are no illegal structures when a residence is
first lived in. Photographs of the property’s swimming pool
published in Hong Kong newspapers show skylights in the bottom
that let light into the underground chamber.  Affair  The allegations follow an admission of an extramarital
affair and add to criticism Tang is out of touch with a populace
squeezed by  unaffordable  housing and a widening wealth gap. The
former chief secretary and textiles heir yesterday said he won’t
pull out of the contest.  Tang also confirmed that he had visited the Chinese
government division that oversees relations with the territory,
which is administered under the system handed over by former
colonial ruler Britain under Chinese sovereignty. He declined to
give any details on what was said at the meeting.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  and other mainland leaders have
publicly criticized Tsang and the Hong Kong government for
failing to address social “contradictions” that are stoking
discontent in the autonomous territory. The Communist Party
leadership sees maintaining social harmony as its top priority
in a country where corruption, illegal land grabs and pollution
spark more than 100,000 mass protests a year.  Tung Chee-hwa  Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong’s first chief executive following
the territory’s return to China in 1997, stepped down early
after protests by 500,000 people in 2003 and hundreds of
thousands in 2004.  The Buildings Department has asked engineers, contractors,
and Tang’s wife for information, the government said.  Tang and his wife would cooperate with the investigation,
he said at a public forum in Hong Kong yesterday.  If the probe finds no criminal offense has been committed,
Tang would join the many thousands of people in Hong Kong that
have erected unauthorized building works. Tsang and Secretary
for Education Michael Suen also faced accusations last year of
having illegal structures on their property.  Tang said Feb. 16 his wife was responsible for the
construction of the basement, and he hadn’t intervened as the
couple had marital issues at the time. Tang in October said he
was forgiven by his wife for a transgression, after Eastweek
magazine published an interview in which they were questioned
about speculation he had an affair.  Rich Father  Tang was financial secretary before becoming the second-
highest ranked official in the city. His father is Tang Hsiang
Chien, who was ranked the 40th-richest person in Hong Kong in
2010 by Forbes Magazine. Tang is a wine enthusiast whose best
known policy success was to end duties on the beverage in 2008,
helping the city overtake  London  and  New York  as the world’s
biggest auction market for wine.  Regina Ip, the former secretary for security, said Feb. 17
that Tang wasn’t suitable to lead the city, and she would
consider standing. Jasper Tsang, chairman of the Legislative
Council, also said that he will consider running.  All candidates need to get at least 150 nominations from
election committee members by the end of the month to stand. The
poll is the last under the committee system, with Hong Kong
moving toward universal suffrage by 2017.  “If Tang can still be elected as the chief with all these
scandals, it really shows the ridiculousness of this small-
circled election,” Cheung Chor-yung, senior teaching fellow in
public administration at the  City University  of Hong Kong and
one of the voters in the March 25 selection, said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  