-- High Court Halts Montana Corporate Funds Ban
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/montana-corporate-election-spending-ban-halted-by-high-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  blocked a
century-old Montana ban on corporate campaign spending,
signaling the justices may reinforce a 2010 ruling that allowed
companies to donate unlimited amounts to influence elections.  The high court yesterday put the Montana law on hold until
it announces whether it will review the measure, which is being
challenged by two nonprofit corporations and a family-owned
business.  The case would test the 2010 ruling in Citizens United v.
 Federal Election Commission . That decision, which divided the
court 5-4 along ideological lines, allowed corporate spending as
long as companies don’t directly coordinate with candidates.  Two justices who dissented in the 2010 case,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and  Stephen Breyer , called on the court to reconsider
it. The appeal in the  Montana  case “will give the court an
opportunity to consider whether, in light of the huge sums
currently deployed to buy candidates’ allegiance, Citizens
United should continue to hold sway,” Ginsburg wrote for the
two.  Although the Citizens United case directly concerned
federal campaign rules, it also affects state laws. At the time
of the ruling, 24 states had laws either banning or restricting
spending by corporations or unions, according to the  National
Conference of State Legislatures . The Montana case is the first
challenge to a state law restricting corporate spending to reach
the Supreme Court since the Citizens United decision.  Montana Court Decision  The Montana Supreme Court, voting 5-2, said  Citizens United 
didn’t apply to the state in part because of bribery and other
types of corruption that infused politics there before the law
was enacted in 1912.  Ginsburg said she supported the decision to block the
Montana Supreme Court ruling “because lower courts are bound to
follow this court’s decisions until they are withdrawn or
modified.”  The majority in Citizens United said that independent
corporate expenditures don’t have enough of a connection to
corruption to justify putting restrictions on speech rights.  Coupled with a subsequent federal appeals court decision
letting independent groups accept unlimited donations, the
Citizens United ruling cleared the way for political action
committees known as super-PACs. The groups can raise and spend
unlimited amounts of money on campaign activity, as long as they
don’t coordinate with candidates.  Super-PAC Spending  Super-PACs have spent more than $47.8 million this election
cycle, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based group that tracks political money. More than
half of that has come from super-PACs supporting  Mitt Romney  and
 Newt Gingrich , the Republican presidential candidates.  The Montana law, which governs state and local races, bars
any direct election spending by corporations, including
incorporated interest groups. Corporations instead must set up
traditional PACs, which can then solicit voluntary contributions
from employees. The PACs are subject to disclosure requirements.  The Montana Supreme Court said its state had “unique and
compelling interests” in barring corporate election spending.
The majority pointed to the so-called “copper king” battle at
the beginning of the 20th century, when entrepreneur Augustus
Heinze and the Anaconda Co., controlled by Standard Oil, used
their money to vie for dominance of the state’s government.  At the time the law was enacted, “the state of Montana and
its government were operating under a mere shell of legal
authority, and the real social and political power was wielded
by powerful corporate managers to further their own business
interests,” the Montana court majority said.  ‘Rule of Law’  The three corporations told the  high court  that its
authority was at stake. Their lawyer, James Bopp, was also
involved in the Citizens United case, filing the suit that led
to the Supreme Court ruling.  “If Montana is allowed to flout this court’s holdings in
Citizens United in such a willful and transparent fashion,
respect for the Constitution, the rule of law and this court
will be eroded,” Bopp argued.  The challengers include American Tradition Partnership
Inc., which describes itself on its website as opposed to
“environmental extremism;” the Montana Shooting Sports
Association Inc., a gun-rights and firearms-safety group; and
Champion Painting Inc., a painting and drywall business with a
single shareholder.  Montana Attorney General Steve Bullock, a Democrat,
defended the law, saying it “has safeguarded the republican
form of government in Montana for a century from the scourge of
political corruption.”  The case is American Tradition Partnership v. Attorney
General for the State of Montana, 11A762.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  