-- Posen Says He’s ‘Comfortable’ With Bank of England’s Inflation Forecasts
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/posen-says-he-s-comfortable-with-boe-s-inflation-forecasts.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Adam Posen  said he’s “comfortable” with the central bank’s
forecasts for U.K. inflation and growth published this week
after policy makers expanded stimulus.  “If you look at what we’re forecasting, assuming the
policy we’ve now put in place, that gets us pretty close to
target with risks pretty balanced,” Posen told reporters late
yesterday at an event in Coventry,  England , referring to policy
makers’ 2 percent inflation goal.  The central bank increased its bond-purchase target by 50
billion pounds ($79 billion) to 325 billion pounds this month.
While officials forecast that  inflation  may undershoot the goal
by the end of 2012, risks around meeting the target at the end
of their forecast period are “broadly balanced,” they said.  Posen declined to comment on the outlook for  bond purchases 
at the Monetary Policy Committee’s May meeting, when the 50
billion pounds of stimulus will have been completed, and said
any decisions will depend on the economic data.  “We do not pre-commit to policy” and “if data turns out
in ways I don’t expect, we could decide to stop the amount of
quantitative easing we voted for well before the program is
appointed to end,” he said. “I don’t think that there’s going
to be reason to do that, but we could. So all this talk about
what’s decided about May, people can speculate if they want, but
it genuinely misrepresents the will of the committee.”  Euro-Area Risk  Posen also said that “as opposed to some past forecasts,
I’m quite comfortable with this one, because fundamentally, as
most of the committee believes, I think we’re going to go back
to trend productivity growth.”  “I don’t think we’re going to get there tomorrow, and the
 euro zone  could throw us off horribly as we all know, but I
think we’re going to get -- in the next year or two -- back to
trend productivity growth and things will improve,” he said.  Euro-area finance ministers are due to meet in Brussels on
Feb. 20 to discuss a second bailout for  Greece  that the nation
needs to be able to meet a March 20 bond payment. Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  said this week that Europe’s debt
turmoil poses the biggest risk to the U.K.  Posen made the comments after delivering a speech at the
Warwick Economics Summit. During the speech, he said inflation
will probably fall below the central bank’s target because of
weak  consumer spending  and low wage growth.  “Consumption will continue to be weak, wage growth will be
minimal,” Posen said. “In that world, I would expect inflation
to come down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  