-- Bridgewater Sells $250M Stake to Texas Fund
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/ray-dalio-s-bridgewater-sells-250-million-stake-to-texas-fund.html
Bridgewater Associates LP, the hedge
fund run by  Ray Dalio , agreed to sell a $250 million equity
stake to Texas Teacher Retirement System as the firm diversifies
ownership from its founder.  Texas Teacher voted at a meeting late Feb. 16 to approve
the transaction, said Ted Melina Raab, senior legislative agent
for the Texas American Federation of Teachers in Austin, who was
at the meeting. The system is the state’s largest public
pension.  Bridgewater, based in Westport,  Connecticut , said yesterday
in a letter to clients that it sold a small stake of non-voting
stock in July to an institutional investor and longtime partner
as part of a 10-year ownership transition plan. Bridgewater, the
world’s largest hedge fund with $120 billion in assets, said it
is entering into similar non-voting arrangements with two
additional investors. The firm didn’t name the buyers.  Over the past two years Dalio started sharing his role as
chief executive officer with Greg Jensen, David McCormick and
Eileen Murray before relinquishing that position in July when he
became “mentor.” Dalio, 62, retained his chief investment
officer role, which he has shared with Bob Prince since 1986.  In yesterday’s client letter, the hedge fund said that in
recent years Dalio and his family trusts had sold about 20
percent of their Bridgewater shares to more than a dozen key
employees, including Prince and Jensen.  “Our hope is that most of the company’s ownership will be
transitioned in this way over the next 10 years, with Ray and
his family trusts maintaining ownership interests of between 10
and 20 percent,” according to the note.  Texas Teachers  A spokesman for Bridgewater declined to comment on the
equity sale or the letter.  The $104.3 billion Texas fund agreed in November to invest
$3 billion each with private equity firms  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  and KKR & Co. Large funds have more leverage to
bargain with outside managers for lower fees and more investment
options as buyout firms compete for a shrinking pool of investor
dollars.  The Texas teachers’ fund has refused to disclose fee
agreements with KKR and Apollo, citing state law that permits it
to withhold such information from public view.  Texas Teachers represents 1.3 million teachers and their
dependents in the second-most populous state. The fund is the
23rd largest public pension in the world, Harris said during the
Feb. 16 meeting.  ‘Something Different’  Britt Harris, chief investment officer for Texas Teacher,
and Howard Goldman, a spokesman for the pension, didn’t return
phone calls and e-mails seeking comment on the news that was
reported yesterday by Pensions & Investments.  Harris was CEO of Bridgewater from November 2004 through
June 2005 after working as president of Verizon Investment
Management Co. Dalio said Harris had difficulty with
Bridgewater’s culture, noting “there’s no doubt that you can
talk about the culture, but living it is something different,”
according to a June 2005 story in Pensions & Investments
magazine. Dalio called Harris “a superstar with an absolutely
fabulous character.”  Other hedge funds have sold stakes in recent years. Private
equity firm  Carlyle Group  agreed in December 2010 to buy 55
percent of Claren Road Asset Management LLC, a credit hedge fund
based in  New York . Credit Suisse Group AG acquired part of York
Capital Management in September of that year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  