-- Treasury Notes Fall a Third Consecutive Week Amid Greek Bailout Optimism
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-18T05:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/treasury-notes-fall-a-third-week-amid-greek-bailout-optimism.html
 Treasury notes fell for a third
consecutive week amid speculation  Greece  will secure an aid
package from European leaders, discouraging demand for the
safest assets.  Yields increased the past two days as reports showed claims
for U.S. jobless benefits unexpectedly dropped last week to a
four-year low and an index of U.S. leading indicators rose in
January. Demand waned Feb. 16 at a Treasury auction of
inflation-protected securities, raising concern yields may rise
at next week’s auctions of $99 billion of U.S. notes.  “The theme for the week has been generally improving U.S.
economic data and middling optimism over the Greek situation,
which has weighed on Treasuries,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director in New York of government trading at R.W. Pressprich &
Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional
investors. “Whether policy makers can get their act together is
another question, which means any selloff will be limited.”  Five-year note  yields rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 0.86 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 0.875 percent securities maturing in January
2017 fell 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 2/32.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes increased two basis
points to 2 percent. Thirty-year  bond  yields were little changed
at 3.15 percent.  Minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s last policy meeting on
Jan. 24-25 that were released Feb. 15 showed a few members of
the Open Market Committee said economic conditions may warrant
more asset purchases, or quantitative easing, “before long.”
Central bankers adopted a plan to hold  interest rates  near zero
at least through late 2014 to spur growth and reduce
unemployment.  Treasury Premium  The euro crisis and the Fed’s accommodative policies have
lowered the  10-year note  yield by 45 basis points from where it
would be otherwise, according to a Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
report released yesterday.  Germany , the biggest contributor to euro-area rescues,
signaled this week that finance ministers may be ready to back
Greece’s second bailout in two years when they meet Feb. 20 in
Brussels. After a week of wrangling among euro-area officials,
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government indicated it aims to avoid
splitting the timetable of the aid and a writedown of Greek debt
to private bondholders and agree to the deal as one package.  “The  bond market  is trading as if there’s a better than 50
percent probability that a deal will get done,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “The bond market is
also showing signs of growth in the U.S. as the rest of  Europe 
may go into recession.”  Inflation Hedge  Investors submitted orders to buy 2.46 times the amount of
debt offered at the Feb. 16 sale of 30-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, compared with a record 3.06 times at the
previous sale. The TIPS were sold at a record-low yield of 0.77
percent, the least since the government began issuing the
securities in 1998.  “It’s hard to see inflation of any significant magnitude
coming in the U.S. for a while,” Rick Rieder, chief investment
officer for fundamental fixed-income portfolios at BlackRock
Inc., said in an interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “The Fed is going to keep
moving and keep being accommodative. I think they’re ultimately
going to go down the road of QE3. If inflation continues to be
tame, then I think they can go down the road and focus on their
statutory obligations to keep moving and get to full
employment.”  Consumer Prices  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent after no
change the prior month, the Labor Department reported yesterday
in  Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a
0.3 percent gain. Over the past 12 months, prices climbed 2.9
percent, the smallest year-to-year advance since March 2011.  A measure of traders’ expectations for inflation that is
tracked by the Fed has risen this year to 2.55 percent from a
low of 2.42 percent in January. The five-year, five-year  forward
break-even rate , which projects annualized price increases over
a five-year period starting in 2017, is below its 2.76 percent
average over the past decade.  Applications for unemployment insurance payments decreased
13,000 in the week ended Feb. 11 to 348,000, less than the
lowest forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the
fewest since March 2008, Labor Department figures  showed  Feb.
16. The median survey estimate projected an increase to 365,000.  Labor Gains  The 0.4 percent increase in the Conference Board’s gauge of
the outlook for the next three to six months followed a 0.5
percent rise in December, the strongest back-to-back gains in
almost a year. An improvement in the labor market may help
deliver the income gains needed to encourage Americans to boost
spending.  Assuming nonfinancial corporations are at least as healthy
as they have been on average over the last 20 years, spreads
should narrow by at least 50 basis points for investment-grade
bonds and possibly by 100 basis points for high-yield debt,
Rieder wrote in a report on the New York-based company’s
website. BlackRock manages $3.51 trillion.  The Bank of America index of U.S. corporate and below-
investment-grade bonds yields 2.96 percentage points more than
Treasuries. The spread narrowed to 2.95 percentage points on
Feb. 14, the least since August.  Measures of Stress  Even so, some measures of stress in global credit markets
have stopped easing as the rescue plan for Greece still
threatens to unravel. The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap
spread touched 32 basis points yesterday, the most since the
beginning of the month. The measure rises when investors seek
the perceived safety of  government securities  and falls when
they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Investors demanded 2.85 percentage points of extra yield to
buy 30-year bonds, which are among the securities that are the
most sensitive to inflation, instead of two-year notes. The
spread has averaged 2.67 points during the past five years.  The U.S. will sell $35 billion in two-year notes, $35
billion in five-year debt and $29 billion in seven-year
securities on three consecutive days next week starting Feb. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net 
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  