-- Rudd Says He’s Changed as Lawmaker Tells Gillard to Quit
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-02-19T05:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/rudd-learns-from-mistakes-as-australian-lawmaker-tells-gillard-to-quit.html
Australian Foreign Minister Kevin
Rudd, backed by a Labor lawmaker to challenge Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  as leader, says he’s changed his autocratic style,
increasing speculation he’ll bid for a comeback.  “You learn from your mistakes and I’ve made mistakes in
the past,” Rudd said in an interview with  Sky News  after a
video of him losing his patience and swearing during his term as
prime minister was uploaded on YouTube. “I’ve certainly
reflected a lot in the past several years and you’d be a mug if
you didn’t learn something from the past.”  Victoria State’s Darren Cheeseman became the first lawmaker
in the Labor  government  to openly call for Gillard, 50, to
resign after months of speculation that Rudd, 54, will vie for
the job he lost to her in a back-room coup in June 2010. A
challenge to Gillard is not “on,” Rudd, who will be out of the
country this week starting from today, told Sky.  Since forming a minority government after the August 2010
election, Australia’s first female prime minister has seen her
popularity slump in the polls after forging agreements with the
Greens party and independent lawmakers on proposed legislation
such as a 30 percent tax on coal and  iron-ore  profits. While she
has pushed signature bills through parliament, Gillard has
struggled to sell them to the public, including implementing a
carbon tax she said before the 2010 election she would oppose.  “There’s an incredible amount of instability in the party
and a showdown is needed to stem it,” John Wanna, a professor
of public administration at the Canberra-based  Australian
National University , said in an interview today. “Gillard’s not
a quitter so Rudd is going to have to try to beat her.”  Swearing, Blaming  Rudd made his comments in an interview broadcast today
after a video, uploaded on YouTube on Feb. 17, shows Rudd during
his term as prime minister swearing and blaming others for
having the wrong wording in a pre-recorded speech in Chinese.
The former diplomat is fluent in Mandarin.  “We have a prime minister who is leading us,”Rudd said in
the interview broadcast today. “I’m the foreign minister.”
Rudd said he has learned to better delegate and consult with
staff since his time as leader.  Cheeseman, whose seat is in the same state as Gillard’s,
said Labor couldn’t win the next election, due late-2013, with
her in charge.  “She will decimate the party if she does” Cheeseman said
in an interview in the Sunday Age today. “The community has
made its mind up on her. Certainly it would be interest-of-party
for Julia to stand down and allow Cabinet to select a strong
candidate.” Rudd would be a better leader “second time
around,” he said.  Strong Support  “I have the strong confidence of my colleagues, their
strong support, and my focus is on getting on with my job as
prime minister,” Gillard told reporters in Darwin today. She
denied her office was responsible for leaking the video.  Rudd has the support 40 of the 52 Labor lawmakers he needs
to win a challenge and may do so as soon as next month, The
Australian reported yesterday, without saying where it obtained
the information. Gillard’s backers estimate she has 45 votes,
with the rest of the 103 Labor lawmakers undecided, it said.  Gillard’s support among voters as preferred prime minister
fell 3 percentage points to 37 percent, with opposition leader
 Tony Abbott  rising 3 points to 40 percent, according to a
Newspoll survey conducted Feb. 10-12. The Labor party’s primary
vote rose 2 points to 32 percent, behind Abbott’s Liberal-
National coalition’s 46 percent. The survey of 1,141 people had
a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  One-Seat Majority  Gillard faced hurdles last month including independent
lawmaker  Andrew Wilkie ’s decision to withdraw support for the
government, reducing its parliamentary majority to one, and
opposition demands for an inquiry into Labor’s role in clashes
between police and aboriginal protesters.  “I would find it easier to work with Kevin Rudd than Julia
Gillard,” Wilkie told Sky News today, adding he had discussed
the possibility of Rudd returning as prime minister in a meeting
with him in November. “Kevin clearly wants the job back.”  A comeback for Rudd would be a spectacular turnaround in
fortunes. Labor lawmakers, spurred by his autocratic style of
leadership, moved to depose him on poor poll ratings that were
driven by a battle with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and other miners over
his plans for a 40 percent tax on resources profits.  Carbon Tax  The speculation over Labor infighting contrasts with a more
successful legislative record under Gillard compared with Rudd,
who enjoyed an absolute majority. Her government will implement
taxes on  carbon emissions  and coal and iron ore profits from
July 1 as it strives to return the budget to surplus by 2012-13.  The government will raise A$10 billion ($10.7 billion) a
year from the carbon tax by charging 500 polluters A$23 a ton
for carbon discharges by 2015, when the government-set price
gives way to a cap-and-trade system that allows companies that
create lower emissions than their cap to then sell unused
permits to other polluters.  A 30 percent tax on iron ore and coal profits is forecast
to raise A$7.7 billion in the first two years. She had another
legislative victory on Feb. 15 when  Australia ’s lower house
passed laws to introduce means-testing of rebates for private-
health insurance. Both laws are expected to be approved in the
upper house, where her government has the support of Greens, who
hold the balance of power.  Growing Economy  The $1.3 trillion economy grew 2.5 percent in the year
through the third quarter of 2011, a period that spans the first
full 12 months of her leadership, according to the latest
figures available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics.  Gillard’s bid to trumpet her government’s economic
credentials has been offset by criticism from Abbott, who says
Australians can’t afford the carbon tax. The opposition leader
has highlighted that last year the nation recorded its worst
jobs growth in 19 years as currency appreciation made
manufacturers uncompetitive.  Australia’s  benchmark S&P/ASX 200  fell 2.08 percent last
week, compared with a 0.94 percent gain for the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index.  Australia’s export industry has suffered as the local
currency strengthened more than 60 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past three years, making products less competitive
in overseas markets.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the country’s largest
steel producer, last August shuttered its export division.
Toyota Motor Corp. and General Motors Co. have cut jobs in
Australia this year, citing the currency’s strength, while Alcoa
Inc. is reviewing the future of an aluminum smelter.  Rate Unchanged  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia, which unexpectedly left its
key rate unchanged at 4.25 percent on Feb. 7 after judging that
two cuts late last year would help the economy weather  Europe ’s
debt crisis, sees average growth of 3.5 percent in 2012, down
from its Nov. 4 estimate of 4 percent.  Rudd will be overseas from today for meetings in
 Washington ,  Mexico ,  Somalia ,  Tunisia  and  Malaysia  until at least
Feb. 24, he said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Parliament
returns in the national capital, Canberra, on Feb. 27.  Australian bookmaker Sportsbet, which says it’s the
nation’s largest online betting agency by revenue, is offering
to return A$2.35 on every A$1 bet should Rudd be Labor leader at
the next election. A bet on Gillard gets the same price.  “Most Australians are getting pretty sick of the
leadership speculation federally,” Queensland Premier Anna Bligh, who today announced elections for her state will be held
March 24, told reporters. “The sooner this is resolved one way
or the other the better.”  ‘Happy Little Vegemite’  The 1-minute, 50-second video on YouTube, entitled “ Kevin
Rudd  is a Happy Little Vegemite,” was uploaded by
“HappyVegemiteKR,” whose identity isn’t known. Such videos
containing errors are usually deleted , he told Sky News.  “Anyone who’s got a touch of suspicion about them would
say that if this was done, somewhat embarrassingly, a couple of
years ago and it suddenly emerges now, then obviously it’s a
little bit on the unusual side,” Rudd said.  The video’s title uses an  advertising slogan  for the
Australian spread Vegemite. In an interview earlier this month
when asked if he would return as prime minister, Rudd responded:
“I’m a very, very happy little Vegemite and a content Vegemite
being foreign minister of Australia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  