-- Santorum Attacks Romney for ‘Bailout’ of 2002 Winter Olympics
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-02-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/santorum-criticizes-romney-for-bailout-of-2002-winter-olympics.html
Republican presidential candidate
Rick Santorum, appealing to  Tea Party  and Christian groups in
Ohio yesterday, criticized rival  Mitt Romney  for seeking a
“bailout” for the 2002 Winter Olympics and complaining about
congressional earmarks.  The former Pennsylvania senator told a group of Tea Party
activists in Columbus that while Romney has criticized him for
accepting earmarks and often cites running the 2002 Olympics in
Salt Lake City as an accomplishment, Romney sought federal
assistance for the games.  “He heroically bailed out the Salt Lake City Olympic games
by heroically going to Congress and asking them for tens of
millions of dollars to bail out the Salt Lake Olympic games, in
an earmark,” Santorum said. “Does the word hypocrisy come to
mind?”  The Romney campaign responded by saying a majority of
federal funds for the  Salt Lake City  games were spent on
security in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, unlike
earmarks Santorum has sought. Romney was in Salt Lake City
yesterday to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the 2002 Winter
Olympics.  “Sometimes when you shoot from the hip, you end up
shooting yourself in the foot,” Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul
said in an e-mail. “There is a pretty wide gulf between seeking
money for post-9/11 security at the Olympics and seeking
earmarks for polar bear exhibits at the Pittsburgh Zoo.”  Must Be Won  It was Santorum’s second straight day campaigning in Ohio,
which Santorum called “the epicenter,  ground zero , the place
that must be won” in a speech last night at a Summit County
Republican Party dinner in Akron.  Ohio  is one of the 11 states
that will hold nominating contests on Super Tuesday, March 6.  Besides questioning Romney’s “hypocrisy” on the Olympics
earmark, Santorum told Tea Party activists in Columbus that
President Barack Obama’s agenda isn’t based on Christianity.  “It’s about some phony ideal, some phony theology,”
Santorum said, according to the  Associated Press . “Not a
theology based on the Bible. A different theology.”  Asked to clarify his comments after a later speech at an
Ohio Christian Alliance luncheon in Columbus, Santorum said he
was referring to the Obama administration’s rule that employers,
including religious-affiliated organizations, provide coverage
for contraceptives in health-care plans. Obama has said private
insurance companies would pay for the coverage.  “It is a different set of moral values that they are
imposing on people who have a constitutional right to have their
own values within the church,” Santorum told reporters.  ‘Latest Low’  Obama campaign spokesman  Ben LaBolt  called Santorum’s
comments “the latest low in a Republican primary campaign that
has been fueled by distortions, ugliness, and searing pessimism
and negativity.”  “The president has reached a new low in this country’s
history of oppressing religious freedom,” Santorum said in
response.  Santorum’s comments in Ohio yesterday came a day after Ohio
Attorney General Mike DeWine switched his endorsement to
Santorum from Romney.  DeWine said that, while he had thought Romney was in the
best position to be the Republican presidential nominee because
of his “massive financial and organizational advantage,”
Romney’s campaign “never picked up enthusiasm.”  ‘This Guy Can’t Win’  “I came to the conclusion the odds are this guy can’t win
the general election,” DeWine said in an interview following a
Santorum speech Feb. 16 in Georgetown, Ohio. “What I’m seeing
with  Rick Santorum  is a candidate who gets better and better
every day.”  Romney backers have dismissed DeWine’s switch, saying his
backing would have little influence on the outcome of the race.
Before endorsing Romney, DeWine had backed former Minnesota
Governor  Tim Pawlenty ’s presidential bid, which ended in August.  Another Romney supporter and co-chairman of his  Arizona 
state campaign, Pinal County Sheriff Paul Babeu, said he called
Romney’s staff to say he would step down from his post amid
allegations of misconduct made by a man with whom he previously
had a relationship, the Associated Press reported.  Boost for Santorum  Babeu, a congressional candidate in Arizona’s 4th District,
denied claims he tried to threaten the man, a former campaign
volunteer, with deportation if their past relationship was made
public, AP said.  The campaign supports Babeu’s decision to resign from his
volunteer position with the campaign “so he can focus on the
allegations against him,” Saul said in an e-mail yesterday.  DeWine’s endorsement is a boost for Santorum, whose
standing in the polls rose after wins in three states last week.
He is now leading in polls in  Michigan , which holds its primary
on Feb. 28, and in Ohio. Democrat Obama is ahead of all of the
top Republican presidential candidates in recent polls.  A victory for Santorum in Michigan, Romney’s native state,
would make him the leading candidate for those in the party most
opposed to abortion and higher taxes.  In his Ohio speeches, Santorum said he would provide a
sharper contrast to Obama in the fall than Romney, especially in
Ohio and  Pennsylvania , and he has been critical of the negative
ads that Romney and his Super PAC have been running.  ‘Reject Negativism’  “You have an opportunity in this primary to reject
negativism, destructive politics, and rally around a vision for
this country that is hopeful and optimistic,” Santorum said in
the speech to the Ohio Christian Alliance.  Santorum plans a rally today in  Georgia , which also votes
March 6 and where former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
campaigned yesterday with former Republican presidential
candidate  Herman Cain . Gingrich said that while he expects to
carry Georgia, his home state, no candidate can count on winning
his home state this year.  “It’s very important we do well here,” Gingrich told
reporters after a speech in Gwinnett County. “That gives us a
spring board then to go across the whole country, and that’s
part of what we’re counting on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  