-- Support for Two Main Greek Parties at Historic Low, Poll Shows
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-02-18T18:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/support-for-two-main-greek-parties-at-historic-low-poll-shows.html
The number of Greeks who would vote
for either of the nation’s largest political parties if an
election were held now reached its lowest since the return of
democracy in 1974, according to an opinion poll by MRB for the
newspaper Real News to be published in tomorrow’s edition.  The conservative  New Democracy  would receive 19 percent
support from likely voters, down from 20.7 percent in a Dec. 1-
8 poll, while the socialist  Pasok  party, which won the last
election in 2009 and has the most seats in parliament, would get
8.2 percent, compared with 12.1 percent in the previous poll.  The Democratic Left would get 10.1 percent support, and 8.8
percent of voters would choose the Communist Party of Greece.
Syriza, or the Coalition of the Radical Left, would get 8.2
percent while the nationalist Laos party would garner 3.4
percent.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won parliamentary
approval Feb. 13 for austerity measures to secure a second
international aid package after rioters protesting the
legislation battled police and set fire to buildings in downtown
Athens. Both Pasok and  New Democracy  supported the measures.  Antonis Samaras, leader of New Democracy, had a negative
rating of 63.2 percent while former Prime Minister and Pasok
leader  George Papandreou  had a disapproval rating of 80.4
percent. Fotis Kouvelis, who leads the Democratic Left, had a
36.6 percent percent approval rating.  If New Democracy wins the next election, “we will remain
committed to the program’s objectives, targets and key
policies,” Samaras wrote in a letter sent to the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund  this past week.  Almost six out of 10 people polled, or 59 percent, said the
country should hold general elections immediately or straight
after a Greek debt-swap deal is concluded, while 30.8 percent
favored elections between the middle of this year and the end of
2013.  The poll of 1,016 people was conducted between Feb. 14 and
Feb. 16. No overall margin of error was provided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in  Athens  at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  