-- University of Virginia Attack ‘Reflection of Malice,’ Lawyer Tells Jurors
-- B y   B o n n i e   V .   W i n s t o n
-- 2012-02-19T06:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/university-of-virginia-student-murder-defense-dealt-blow-by-lawyer-e-mails.html
State prosecutors portrayed former
 University of Virginia  lacrosse player George W. Huguely V as a
violent man whose actions caused the death of Yeardley Love, a
22-year-old UVA student and the defendant’s ex-girlfriend.  Commonwealth Attorney Warner D. Chapman, in closing
arguments yesterday in Charlottesville state court, showed the
jury photographs of her injuries. He described “20 to 25
distinct contusions” including a swollen, shut eye, and
lacerations in Love’s mouth and under her chin. Her bedroom door
sat along the courtroom wall, a large hole by the doorknob where
Huguely told police he had kicked it in the night of her death.  Huguely is charged with first-degree murder, robbery,
burglary, breaking and entering, grand larceny and murder in the
commission of a robbery. Love’s badly bruised body was
discovered by a friend and teammate who went to the victim’s
room in her apartment about 2 a.m. on May 3, 2010, finding her
face down in a pool of blood on her pillow.  Huguely, 24, faces a possible life sentence if convicted.
Jury deliberations are to begin Feb. 22.  Before closing arguments began, his case was dealt a
setback when prosecutors claimed defense e-mails tainted some
witnesses, prompting the judge to limit key expert-testimony on
how the victim died. Following the judge’s ruling and a
truncated defense case, Huguely’s lawyers rested without him
testifying.  The defendant told police investigators he entered Love’s 
apartment through an unlocked front door and then kicked open 
the door to her bedroom, where police found her body. Huguely 
said the two had an altercation during which he “shook
Love and her head repeatedly hit the wall,” according to an
affidavit filed by prosecutors.  ‘Reflection of Malice’  “These injuries are a reflection of malice,” Chapman said,
referring to the photos during his closing argument. “If you’ve
got your arm wrapped around her head and her face grinding into
the ground, that’s malice.”  In the defense’s closing arguments, attorney Francis
Lawrence said Huguely took responsibility for his role in Love’s
death, asking the jury to consider a lesser conviction of
involuntary manslaughter.  “George had no intent to commit a crime. It was immature
compulsiveness,” Lawrence said. “When he was drunk, he was
aggressively evil.”  “It was an altercation, coupled with alcohol and injuries
that caused asphyxia,” the defense lawyer said. “It’s unlikely
that none of us have touched someone we love in a rude manner,”
Lawrence said. “I tell my kid, ‘I’ll crush you.’”  Got Aggressive  Lawrence said when Huguely went to Love’s apartment the
night she died, it was to talk with her, not to beat her and
take her computer. He also said that Love first got aggressive
with Huguely.  Chapman, in his rebuttal, dragged over to the jurors Love’s
bedroom door.  “If you think he went over there to have a conversation,”
the prosecutor said, “what kind of conversation starter is
that?”  Prosecutors spent almost two weeks presenting their case,
which included testimony from former students and medical
experts. The government concluded its evidence Feb. 15.  The defense case was cut short by the judge’s ruling on the
e-mails. Four messages were sent to medical experts by Huguely’s
other defense attorney, Rhonda Quagliana, after the trial began,
prosecutors said yesterday. Dr. Robert Uscinski, a neurosurgeon,
was among those receiving the missives detailing earlier
testimony. Under court rules, witnesses aren’t allowed to see
previous testimony to avoid the possibility they may alter their
own statements.  ’Material Advantage’  “When you have knowledge of topics in the case, you have a
material advantage,” argued Chapman. The judge “cannot make a
finding that this gentleman is completely without taint.”  Lawrence acknowledged that his legal team was at fault in
sending the e-mails. But in questioning before Judge Edward
Hogshire, the witness, Uscinski, said that while he may have
received the e-mails, he didn’t recall reading them.  “I have more than 4,000 unopened e-mails,” he said.  Uscinski’s testimony sought to rebut the statements of the
state medical examiner who said Love, a member of UVA’s women’s
lacrosse team, died of blunt force trauma. Earlier testimony by
a defense witness said that her brain injuries may have been
caused by resuscitation attempts by paramedics.  In ruling on the matter, Hogshire said he was “incredibly
disappointed” about the e-mails being sent to the witness, but
that he would allow Uscinski to testify. The testimony, however,
wouldn’t be allowed to touch on resuscitation or matters that
were discussed in the e-mail communications, the judge ruled.  Moved to Strike  Prosecutors also moved to strike the testimony of Dr. Jan E.
Leestma, a Chicago neuropathologist, who testified in Huguely’s
defense several days ago and who also was copied on the e-mails.  Following the ruling, Uscinski took the witness stand and
testified that his examination of Love’s autopsy showed some
blood in her brain’s temporal lobe. He said her brain stem,
however, located deeper inside the brain, wasn’t distorted.  He said the blood, most likely the result of swelling, was
“possibly but less likely caused by trauma.”  At one point, he tried to simplify the information for the
jury, likening his findings to finding a driver dead in a car
under a highway overpass.  “The assumption might be that the driver hit the bridge of
the underpass,” Uscinski said. “But it must be a pretty major
impact” for the driver to be dead. “You’ve got to see more
than a dent in the bumper.”  Laboratory Slides  Uscinski also testified that laboratory slides and stains
of the victim’s brain tissue showed a lack of oxygen and not
bleeding. Leestma testified earlier in the trial that Love’s
death was caused by asphyxia, or a lack of oxygen to the brain.  On Feb. 17, witnesses testified that, days before Love’s
death, she hit the defendant with her purse and demanded to know
if he’d exchanged  text messages  with two women.  Huguely, seeking to portray the 2010 death of the fellow
senior as accidental, called two witnesses who described an
incident at Huguely’s apartment a few days before she was found
dead.  “She asked who we were and she asked if George had been
texting us,” said Caroline Wattenmaker, then a high school
student visiting the university who Huguely took back to his
apartment after meeting her and a friend at a club. “She hit
George with her purse and he got up off the sofa and backed
away,” she told the jury. “He asked her to leave.”  Her Companion  Her companion that day, Alice Billmire, testified Love
appeared to be frustrated. Billmire said she was in another room
at the time Wattenmaker said the altercation took place. The two
women described Huguely as “polite” and “perfectly nice.”  In addition to the two women, the jury heard from Huguely’s
aunt, Alina Massaro. She narrated video played for the jury that
was taken from a surveillance camera at a Charlottesville
restaurant. In the video, taken two days before the alleged
murder, Huguely, who Massaro referred to as Georgie, is seen
hugging his 17-and 18-year-old cousins and holding hands with
Love.  The defense also addressed the issue of how hard the victim
may have been slammed against the wall.  Michael Woodhouse, a bio-mechanical consultant and
associate research professor at Eastern  Virginia  Medical School,
testified he saw no evidence of an impact profile on a piece of
drywall that came from Love’s apartment.  In his closing argument today, Chapman, the commonwealth
attorney, portrayed the death as the result of a deliberate act.  “This is not an accident case,” he said. “This is the
case of a woman who went to bed in what should be one of the
safest and secure places -- her home. And then he began to
assault her,” the prosecutor said. “He left her for dead.”  The case is Commonwealth of Virginia v. Huguely, 11-00102,
Virginia Circuit Court (Charlottesville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bonnie V.  Winston in Virginia Circuit Court in Charlottesville
at   bvwinston@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  