-- Murdoch Shows Trademark Defiance With U.K. Sun on Sunday Tabloid
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-02-18T00:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/murdoch-shows-trademark-defiance-with-u-k-sun-on-sunday-tabloid.html
Rupert Murdoch has taken seven
months to recover from the “most humble day” of his life at
the peak of a phone-hacking scandal in the U.K. to announce a
new tabloid in a trademark defiant move by the 80-year-old.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s chief executive officer, whose U.K. operations
have been inundated with lawsuits from hacking victims, police
investigations and government inquiries into ethical and legal
misdeeds, yesterday said he will start a Sunday edition of the
Sun tabloid to replace the News of the World. He said an
influential newspaper is the key to prevailing.  “Having a winning paper is the best answer to our
critics,” Murdoch told Sun employees, according to a memo
obtained by Bloomberg News. Staff had requested an audience with
him after a second round of arrests a week ago into bribery
sparked outrage among journalists at Britain’s best-selling
daily newspaper.  Murdoch’s announcement may soothe anger in the newsroom
after the company’s Management and Standards Committee, formed
by News Corp. to assist police in their investigations of phone-
hacking and bribery, handed over information to police. It may
also spark more clashes with U.K. politicians, with Murdoch
announcing the decision before legislators publish a report into
why News Corp. executives didn’t stop illegal activities.  “This is very much like him,” said Edward Wasserman, a
professor of Journalism Ethics at Washington &  Lee University ,
said in an interview. “He decided he wants to fill up the hole
in the market that he left. ‘It also shows a certain amount of
defiance, he’s not going to allow questions to be raised about
the wisdom of News Corp.’s management.”  Stubborn Streak  Murdoch has a track record of stubbornness. In 2007, when
he was bidding for Dow Jones & Co. and the family-owned Wall
Street Journal, he offered $60 a share, a 65 percent premium to
the company’s stock price, cornering the Bancrofts into selling.
The family, who had fought the takeover for three months with
some members expressing concern about Murdoch’s influence on
coverage, had controlled the paper for more than a century.  The News of the World was the best-selling Sunday paper in
Britain when it was closed and its readers have dispersed to
competing tabloids or stopped buying Sunday papers altogether.
Advertisers would be glad to see the popular tabloid replaced,
said Marc Mendoza, the head of the media-buying arm of
advertising agency  Havas SA. (HAV)   ‘Brave Move’  “It would be a brave move,” Mendoza said in an interview.
Murdoch is saying, “OK you’ve arrested these journalists, now
we’re going to print seven days a week instead of six. Bring it
on.”  While advertisers may welcome Murdoch’s plans, some
lawmakers say his defiance won’t help him.  The closing of the News of the World was “just cynical,”
said  Chris Bryant , a lawmaker from the opposition  Labour Party ,
who had sued the News or the World over phone-hacking.  Tom Watson , the lawmaker who is helping prepare the report into News
Corp. executives, said “this will not draw a line under the
crisis faced by News Corp. in the U.K.”  Following the News of the World’s closure, Murdoch and his
son James, the former head of the News International publishing
unit and now deputy chief operating officer of News Corp., had
to appear before Parliament to explain how much they knew.  In his testimony on July 19,  Rupert Murdoch  told lawmakers
that this is “the most humble day of my life.” He added that
he may have “lost sight” of the paper because it was “so
small in the general frame of the company.”  ‘Proud Heritage’  Yesterday, Murdoch said he will stay in London for the next
several weeks to give his staff “unwavering support.” James Murdoch didn’t fly to London this week with his father because
he had other commitments, said a person familiar with the
matter.  “We will build on The Sun’s proud heritage by launching
The Sun on Sunday very soon,” Murdoch said. “I am even more
determined to see The Sun continue to fight for its readers and
its beliefs.”  The police investigation ultimately widened beyond the News
of the World to News Corp.’s other U.K. titles including the Sun
and the Times.  The U.K. lawmakers probing whether News Corp. covered up
phone hacking are at least two months behind schedule with their
report, as they debate how critical they can be of  James Murdoch , two people with knowledge of the panel’s discussions
said this week.  Offering Protection  Trevor Kavanagh, associate Sun editor, called the arrests
of journalists a “witch hunt” and said Sun journalists were
treated like members of an “organized crime gang.” The MSC has
interviewed employees and searched through e-mails and the use
of private detectives, looking for signs of corruption.  Murdoch said yesterday that while the company would
continue to aid investigations into the newsroom, he would
protect reporters. The 10 Sun journalists suspended from their
jobs following their arrests tied to the bribery investigation
will be allowed to return and can continue to work unless they
are charged with a crime, he said. News Corp. will also cover
legal expenses for accused reporters until they are convicted.  “Everyone is innocent unless proven otherwise,” Murdoch
told his journalists yesterday.  His comments show that Murdoch is confident he will prevail
in the current conflict, says Niri Shan, a media lawyer at
 Taylor Wessing LLP  in  London  who is not working for Murdoch.  “Murdoch might feel the best form of defense is attack,”
Shan said in an interview. “There’s no reason why he can’t
launch a newspaper with a different editorial team.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  