-- Whitney Houston Remembered in New Jersey Hometown for Graciousness, Talent
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-02-19T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/whitney-houston-remembered-in-new-jersey-hometown-for-graciousness-talent.html
Mourners from the world of music and
film as well as those from around the block came to pay tribute
to singer Whitney Houston at the  New Jersey  church where she
sang as a girl and where her family came yesterday to bury her.  Under sunny skies, a crowd of about 1,300 gathered outside
 New Hope Baptist Church  in  Newark (9982MF)  and at restaurants and other
meeting places throughout the city to watch the almost four-hour
service on television. One bold-face name after another sat in
the pews:  Oprah Winfrey , Angela Bassett,  Mariah Carey ,  Stevie
Wonder ,  Beyonce Knowles ,  Jesse Jackson ,  Alicia Keys .  The funeral, by invitation only, was broadcast on  CNN .
Singer Dionne Warwick, Houston’s cousin, introduced the
speakers, including filmmaker Tyler Perry, preacher T.J. Jakes
and record producer Clive Davis, Houston’s mentor. At times,
they addressed Houston’s mother, Cissy, and her ex-husband,
Bobby Brown and their daughter.  Actor  Kevin Costner , Houston’s leading man in “The
Bodyguard,” spoke of their work on the film and how they passed
time comparing their upbringings in the Baptist church. He had
cast Houston as the film’s leading lady even though she had no
prior acting experience, and he spoke of her apprehensions
before saying goodbye.  “So off you go, Whitney, off you go,” he said, pausing to
compose himself. “Escorted by an army of angels and your heavenly
father. And when you sing before him, don’t you worry, you’ll
be good enough.”  ‘People Are People’  The 48-year-old pop singer was found in a bathtub
“underwater and apparently unconscious” on Feb. 11 at the
Beverly Hilton hotel by a member of her staff. Beverly Hills
Police are investigating her death. Houston struggled with
substance abuse in the later years of her career.  Outside the church, some vendors hawked black memorial
Whitney Houston T-shirts for $10 each. Police blocked off
traffic as fans lined the procession route and media from as far
away as Asia and  Europe  interviewed spectators.  Ronald Davis, 54, a firefighter from Burlington County in
New Jersey, drove up to Newark yesterday morning. He said
Houston’s “I Will Always Love You” was his wedding song at his
first marriage.  “She was a part of my life,” he said. “People are
people. They make mistakes. Society looks at the bad, and
forgets all the good they’ve done. I’m glad she’s at peace now.  “As a firefighter, I see death all the time. This one
actually really hit me.”  A Gracious Person  Linda Baker, 62, of West Orange, New Jersey, said her
brother Billy babysat for Whitney when she was growing up. A
singer, he later toured with Houston. Baker said when her
brother got sick, Houston helped pay his medical bills and kept
him on the payroll until a year before his death in 2006.  “She was a person with a big heart,” said Baker.  Tamara Stubbs, a 34-year-old preschool teacher from
Raleigh,  North Carolina , spent 12 hours on a Greyhound bus to
make it to  Newark  by 6 a.m. yesterday. She found a spot to stand
a couple blocks from the church.  “Everyone said you’re crazy, don’t go, you won’t see
anything,” she said. “But I’m happy because I got a lot closer
than I thought.” She said she’s been a Houston fan since she
was 8, “and I felt like I had to be here.”  Rudolpho Manacap, a personal assistant who lives in
Princeton, New Jersey, was dressed in a yellow T-shirt that
said, “We Will Always Love You.” He said that as a boy growing
up in the  Philippines  he was surrounded by Houston’s music.  Manacap, 37, said he supported the decision by New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie , who attended the service, to have flags
lowered to half-staff for Houston. The move touched off a
controversy on Twitter, with some saying the honor shouldn’t
have been bestowed on a singer with a drug problem.  “She deserves” the recognition, he said. “She fought for
sure with all of that and she was with the wrong friends. But we
need to honor her.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  