-- Yen Tumbles After Bank of Japan Monetary Easing; Euro Falls Before Summit
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-18/yen-tumbles-after-bank-of-japan-monetary-easing-euro-falls-before-summit.html
The yen fell against all its most-
traded counterparts after the Bank of  Japan  said it would
increase the size of its asset-purchase fund.  Japan’s currency fell to a six-month low versus the dollar
in its biggest weekly loss against the dollar since November as
better-than-expected economic data damped expectations of
further monetary easing in the U.S. The euro fell versus the
dollar after Moody’s downgraded the debt ratings of six European
nations and said more may follow. Euro-area finance ministers
meet Feb. 20 meeting to decide the fate of a Greek financial
bailout.  “You have the policy easing in Japan, which is pushing the
yen lower,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in
 Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency
brokerage. “There are some structural issues in Japan we’re
keeping an eye on that the long-time pillars of yen strength are
starting to deteriorate.”  The yen fell 2.5 percent to 79.55 versus the dollar, the
biggest weekly loss since Nov. 4. It touched 79.62 the weakest
since Aug. 4. The Japanese currency declined 2.1 percent to
104.54 against the euro. On Feb. 17, it reached 104.67, the
weakest since Dec. 5. The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.3140 after
touching $1.2974, the lowest since Jan. 25.  Bank of Japan  Japan’s central bank increased its asset-purchase fund to
30 trillion yen, expanding economic stimulus measures for the
first time since October. The BOJ also said it will target 1
percent inflation “for the time being.”  The dollar was supported against the yen as the New York-
based Conference Board’s gauge of the U.S. outlook for the next
three to six months increased, manufacturing in the Philadelphia
area expanded by the fastest in four months and initial jobless
claims fell to the lowest in four years.  The euro weakened after Moody’s downgraded Italy, Spain and
 Portugal  and said it may strip  France , the U.K. and  Austria  of
their top Aaa ratings, citing the debt crisis.  Euro-region finance ministers will meet to determine
whether to award  Greece  a second aid package worth 130 billion
euros ($171 billion.) The shared currency fell after the meeting
was rescheduled from Feb. 15 when Luxembourg Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker, head of the euro-region finance chiefs,
said Greece needed to work on details of the agreement.  ‘Agreement on Greece’  The euro’s weekly loss against the dollar was limited as
Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos expressed
optimism that an “agreement on Greece” can be reached and the
 European Central Bank  participated in a bond swap for Greek
debt.  “The bond swap implies that the second bailout is likely
to happen,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at National Bank of Canada in Toronto said on Feb. 16.  Futures traders  added 8,048 more bets the common currency
will fall against the dollar than bets it will gain in the five
days ended Feb. 14. The so-called net shorts totaled 148,641,
compared to a record 171,347 reached Jan. 27.  New Zealand’s dollar was the best performing currency
against the dollar gaining 0.7 percent to 83.23 U.S. cents and
rallying 3.2 percent to 66.21 yen after  Reserve Bank  Governor
Alan Bollard said the country’s economic performance may be
understated.  Traders (CS1YRBNZ)  are betting  New Zealand ’s central bank will raise
rates by 0.15 percentage point over the next 12 months,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps. On
Feb. 6, wagers went from a projected cut to an increase. The
Reserve Bank of New Zealand has kept the official cash rate at a
record-low 2.5 percent since March.  Norway, Sweden  Norway’s krone rallied 0.5 percent to 5.714 per dollar and
1 percent to 7.51 versus the euro. Policy makers in the nation
are renewing their efforts to talk down the currency to support
exports. The nation’s central bank is monitoring the krone after
its recent gains, Governor Oeystein Olsen said. Crude oil
futures rose 5 percent to $103.99 a barrel in  New York , its
biggest weekly advance since Dec. 23.  Sweden’s krona weakened against all its major counterparts
excluding the yen after the central bank unexpectedly cut
 interest rates  by 0.25 percent, citing a drag on exports from
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  The krona fell 1 percent to 6.728 per dollar and declined
0.5 percent to 8.8394 versus the euro.  Yen, Dollar Drop  The yen has tumbled 6.5 percent over the past month and the
dollar dropped 3.2 percent, the worst performers among 10
developed-market currencies according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 0.6 percent over the period.  Japan’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  reiterated at a
parliamentary budget committee session in  Tokyo  on Feb. 13 that
he’ll act on excessive and speculative moves in the currency.
Japan spent 14.3 trillion yen ($185 billion) in intervention
operations last year to stem gains in the currency as it rose to
postwar records against the dollar, hurting the nation’s
exporters.  “The 10 trillion yen the  Bank of Japan  pumped in to the
economy is still a fairly modest amount in the big scheme of
things,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in Washington at
Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co.
“The yen may have further room to the downside, particularly if
the Fed holds off from embarking on a third round of monetary
easing this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  