-- 1Time Declines After Airline Chief Resigns: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-13T15:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/1time-declines-after-airline-chief-resigns-johannesburg-mover.html
1time Holdings Ltd. (1TM)  fell to the
lowest in more than three weeks after the chief executive of its
airline subsidiary quit.  Shares of the company fell 5 percent to 19 cents at the end
of trading in Johannesburg, the lowest level since Feb. 17,
taking losses over the past three days to 24 percent. The
stock’s trading volume today was more than double the six-month
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rodney James stepped down as chief executive officer from
1time Airline (Pty) Ltd, and Executive Director Michael Kaminski
also resigned, Johannesburg-based 1time said in a statement
today, without giving reasons for the resignations. 1time
Holdings CEO Blacky Komani has been appointed to replace James
immediately, the company said.  “Airlines are going through a perfect storm right now,”
Keith McLachlan, a senior equities analyst for small and mid-cap
companies at Thebe Stockbroking Pty Ltd. in Johannesburg. “The
economy is tough and  oil prices  are high and airlines are
reporting big losses. Add to that top management changes at
1time and you get something that is not good.”  Crude prices climbed more than 5 percent last year, while
the rand declined 18 percent, adding to costs for South African
airlines that pay for fuel in dollars.  Earnings per share for the year through December probably
fell more than 20 percent, 1time said in a regulatory filing on
Dec. 9.  Komani was in a meeting and was unable to respond to a
phone call from Bloomberg, a company representative said. A
former non-executive director of the airline, Komani replaced
Glenn Orsmond, who resigned on Oct. 1, as group chief executive
officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  