-- Tablet Sales Will Soar 54 Percent This Year, IDC Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-03-13T20:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/tablet-sales-will-soar-54-percent-this-year-idc-says.html
Tablet shipments will increase this
year by a better-than-predicted 54 percent as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s
lower-priced challenge to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad stokes awareness of
the devices, International Data Corp. said.  IDC, a research company that tracks technology sales,
boosted its estimate for global tablet shipments in 2012 by 21
percent to 106.1 million after sales last year rose more than it
anticipated. A total of 68.7 million units were sold in 2011,
Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC said in a statement today.  Amazon’s Kindle Fire, which started shipping in November
and costs less than half the price of Apple’s cheapest iPad,
increased tablet adoption industrywide, said Tom Mainelli, a
research director at IDC. Amazon shipped 4.7 million Kindle
Fires in the fourth quarter, giving it 16.8 percent of the
market and putting it in the No. 2 spot behind Apple, IDC said.  “Products across the pricing spectrum sold well,”
Mainelli said in the statement. “Amazon’s widely reported entry
into the media tablet market with a $199, 7-inch product seemed
to raise consumers’ awareness of the category worldwide.”  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, shipped 15.4 million
units in the quarter, compared with 11.1 million in the previous
three months, seeing its market share slip to 54.7 percent from
just more than 61 percent, according to IDC.  Android Tablets  Lower-priced vendors such as Seattle-based Amazon, whose
Kindle Fire runs on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, will
help Android-based tablets overtake Apple in unit sales by 2015,
IDC said. Android, used by multiple manufacturers, made up 44.6
percent of the tablet market in the fourth quarter, up from 32.3
percent in the previous three months, the researcher said.  Estimates for Kindle Fire shipments have differed among
analysts and research firms.  IHS Inc. (IHS)  projected almost a million
fewer than IDC -- 3.89 million -- last month, indicating the
Fire grabbed a 14 percent share in the fourth quarter.  Amazon hasn’t released sales figures for any of its Kindle
devices beyond saying in January that units sold in the nine-
week period ending Dec. 31 increased 177 percent from the same
time the previous year. The Seattle-based company said the
Kindle Fire was the best-selling item on its site at the time.  Ross Sandler , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , has
predicted 3 million to 4 million Kindle Fire unit sales in the
fourth quarter, while  Jordan Rohan  at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
projected as many as 6 million, and  Anthony DiClemente  at
Barclays Capital pegged shipments at 5 million. All three
analysts are based in  New York .  “It’s really difficult to get an actual number,” said
Brian Nowak, an analyst at Nomura Securities in New York, who
estimates Amazon sold about 5 million Kindle Fires in the fourth
quarter. “You talk to the different suppliers and you read
through what IDC and all those guys say, but it is hard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  