-- AFL-CIO Backs Obama for Second Term, Citing Automaker Aid
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-03-13T20:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/afl-cio-backs-obama-for-second-term-citing-automaker-aid-1-.html
The AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor
federation, unanimously endorsed President Barack Obama for re-
election, citing his efforts to overhaul  Wall Street  after the
financial collapse and bail out the auto industry.  While the labor “has sometimes differed with the president
and often pushed his administration to do more and do it
faster,” President  Richard Trumka  told reporters today, “we
have never doubted his commitment to working families.”  Leaders of the group’s affiliated unions reached the
decision today at an executive council meeting in Orlando,
Florida. The federation also may adopt strategies for
congressional elections while seeking to resolve disagreements
over  Canada ’s Keystone XL pipeline. The AFL-CIO, representing 12
million workers in 57 unions, backed Obama in 2008.  Labor unions spent a record $450 million in 2008 electing
Obama and Democrats to Congress. Obama is relying on labor’s
get-out-the-vote effort for his re-election bid.  Obama efforts to rewrite U.S. health-care laws and steps to
rein in the financial-services industry won praise from the
labor groups, Trumka told reporters today. Obama’s Republican
opponents, such as  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts
governor, are beholden to the wealthy, he said.  “Mitt Romney doesn’t have a have a clue what people go
through every day,” Trumka said.  Auto Bailout  The federation cited Obama’s role in leading an $82 billion
federal bailout for  General Motors Corp. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.
Both companies have emerged from bankruptcy. In his statement
today, Trumka gave credit to Obama for “a move that saved
hundreds of thousands of jobs and is helping to revive the
economy.”  Congress in 2010 passed the Dodd-Frank Act, which required
hundreds of rules to revamp how the financial industry does
business. Republicans in the U.S. House are proposing to repeal
some provisions of the law, enacted after the collapse of global
financial markets.  The law is “beginning to reverse decades of financial
deregulation that put our entire economy at risk,” Trumka said.  The federation’s endorsement may signal a warming towards
Obama less than a year after Trumka said workers’ enthusiasm had
waned. In June, Trumka said union members were frustrated by
“wasted energy” in  Washington  on issues that don’t help
workers, and said Obama reneged on pledges to labor in pushing
free-trade agreements with South Korea,  Colombia  and Panama.  ‘Immoral’ Deal  “During the campaign, he made significant promises to do
an inventory of the trade agreements” to be certain they
protected worker rights, Trumka said in the June interview.
“He’s obviously forgotten that promise.”  Congress passed the agreements in October, and Trumka said
the deal with Colombia was “immoral” because it failed to
protect workers in the nation seeking to organize for better
wages. He said the Panama and South Korea agreements were flawed
and might cost U.S. jobs.  This year, labor groups praised Obama for bypassing the
 U.S. Senate  and appointing three members to fill vacancies on
the  National Labor Relations Board , reviving the agency that
mediates labor disputes that is reviled by business groups.  In response, Republicans vowed stepped up oversight of the
board. The NLRB has been a Republican target since it sued
aerospace giant  Boeing Co. (BA)  last year for opening a plant in
 South Carolina , where workers aren’t required to join a union.
That case was settled in December.  Obama in September proposed spending $447 billion for
construction on highways and bridges, subsidies to local
governments to stem teacher layoffs and reducing by half the
payroll taxes paid by workers and small-business owners. Trumka
said Obama’s proposals were a first step. Focusing on needs to
rebuild schools, roads and bridges and avoiding layoffs of state
and local workers are needed for the economy, he said.  In 2008, the AFL-CIO backed Obama in June, as he wrapped up
a Democratic primary battle with Senator  Hillary Clinton  of  New
York , who is Obama’s secretary of State.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  