-- Labor Leaders Debate Keystone Pipeline at AFL-CIO Meeting
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-03-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/afl-cio-seeks-united-front-on-keystone-xl-oil-pipeline-as-union-heads-meet.html
U.S. labor leaders, meeting this 
week to craft an election-year strategy, are seeking agreement
on a campaign issue that has so far eluded them: the Keystone XL 
pipeline.   Neither the AFL-CIO nor its president,  Richard Trumka , has
taken a position on President Barack Obama’s decision to reject
a permit for  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Canada-to-Gulf of
Mexico oil pipeline.  “Unions don’t agree among ourselves,” Trumka, president
of the AFL-CIO, said in a Jan. 12 speech before a summit on
climate risk held at the  United Nations  in  New York .  The topic will be discussed as the AFL-CIO’s  executive
council  meets this week in Orlando,  Florida . The organization is
expected to endorse Obama’s re-election today and hammer out
strategies for congressional elections, according to a labor
source who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The umbrella
group, which represents 12 million workers through 57 unions,
endorsed Obama in 2008.  The Keystone issue pits some unions against
environmentalists, two groups Democrats rely on for campaign
cash and volunteers. Labor groups spent about $450 million
helping to elect Democrats in 2008.  United Steelworkers, the  United Auto Workers  and the
 Service Employees International Union , representing almost 4
million active and retired members between them, joined with
environmental advocates in opposing the pipeline. Those that
favor it, such as the  Laborers’ International Union , point to
the potential to create thousands of jobs for union members.  ‘Dug In’  Both sides are dug in with their positions and probably
won’t change, said Tom Owens, communications director for
 America’s Building Trades Union , which is affiliated with the
AFL-CIO and supports the pipeline.  The meetings should “clear the air,” Owens said. He said
he worries environmental groups like the  Sierra Club  have taken
focus away from the priority of finding new jobs.  “How do we keep this from happening?” Owens asked. “How
do we not allow outside organizations to split and divide the
 labor movement ?”  Obama on Jan. 18 denied a U.S. State Department permit for
the pipeline, saying there wasn’t enough time in a Republican-
imposed deadline to conduct the proper environmental reviews.
Obama invited the company to apply again with another route
around environmentally sensitive areas of Nebraska.  Senate Action  The  U.S. Senate  last week rejected by four votes an
amendment to a transportation funding bill that would have
approved the project over Obama’s objection. Another amendment
is on the Senate agenda today.  “This is a huge issue, not just for them but for the whole
country,” Charles Craver, a labor law professor at George
Washington University in Washington. “They should try
desperately to come up with a plan that would allow the pipeline
and would address environmental concerns.”  The Amalgamated Transit Union, Transport Workers Union,
 United Steelworkers , issued a joint  statement  in January with
the  Sierra Club  and the  Natural Resources Defense Council 
opposing the pipeline.  “Addressing global  climate change , establishing
sustainable and secure energy sources, and creating and
retaining safe and family-supportive jobs are keys to a positive
future,” the unions said in the statement. The three have a
combined membership of 1.24 million, or about 10 percent of the
AFL-CIO’s total.  GOP Candidates  Republicans, including presidential contenders Mitt Romney
and  Newt Gingrich , said Obama’s denial of Keystone would cost
U.S. construction jobs and lead to higher energy prices. They
criticized the permit denial as a sacrifice of jobs and energy
supplies to please the president’s political allies.  The Laborers’ International Union of  North America , with
500,000 members in the U.S. and  Canada , said the review process
has gone on long enough and the pipeline can be built safely.
TransCanada applied for a permit for the project in 2008.  “Most of the unions on the building and construction
trades are aligned on this,” said Jaclyn Houser, a spokeswoman
for the union. “We’re totally in agreement that we want to
build this pipeline and do it safely.”  TransCanada, based in Calgary, said the project would
employ 20,000 workers to build a line to carry 700,000 barrels
of crude a day from Alberta’s oil sands to refineries on the
U.S. Gulf coast, crossing six U.S. states.  Seeking Consensus  With union workers needing the jobs and also suffering from
high gasoline prices that may eventually be alleviated from the
pipeline, union management is in a tight spot if it doesn’t
support the pipeline, Craver said.  “A lot of people in the unemployment line who would get
jobs from it would benefit from more oil in this country too and
would be upset if they don’t allow it,” Craver said.  Larry Hanley, president of the Amalgamated Transit Union,
which represents more than 190,000 workers, said the short-term
gain in jobs isn’t worth the environmental risk.  “It will produce very little, with no long-term benefit,”
Hanley said in an interview. “It’s not a jobs program, it’s an
oil-industry enrichment program.”  Craver said Trumka is probably working behind the scenes to
find some consensus that can be announced at the end of the
meetings.  Trumka appeared to be seeking middle ground in his January
speech.  “We cannot have a trust-building conversation about it
unless opponents of the pipeline recognize that construction
jobs are real jobs, good jobs, and supporters of the pipeline
recognize that  tar sands  raises real issues in terms of climate
change,” Trumka said in January.  Josh Goldstein, a spokesman for the union, declined to
comment beyond Trumka’s remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in  Washington  at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  