-- Tainted Libor Guessing Games Face Replacement by Real Trades
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-03-13T12:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/tainted-libor-rate-guessing-games-facing-replacement-by-verified-trades.html
The  London  interbank offered rate,
the benchmark for $360 trillion of securities, may not survive
allegations of being corrupted unless it’s based on transactions
among banks rather than guesswork about the cost of money.  “The methodology used to formulate Libor is totally
unsuitable for the modern world,” said Daniel Sheard, chief
investment officer of asset manager GAM U.K. Ltd., which manages
about $60 billion. “The British Bankers’ Association needs to
come out on the front foot and say ‘this is a system that was
appropriate 20 years ago but is no longer appropriate and we are
going to change it.’”  The BBA, the lobby group that has overseen Libor for 26
years, is under pressure to find an alternative way to calculate
the benchmark, or cede control of it. Regulators from  Canada  to
 Japan  are probing whether banks lied to hide their true cost of
borrowing and traders colluded to rig the benchmark, the basis
for  interest rates  on securities from mortgages to derivatives.  “It can’t be beyond the wit of man to come up with a rate
that is based on actual trades rather than guesswork,” said  Tim Price , who helps oversee more than $1.5 billion at PFP Group
LLP, an asset-management firm in London. “The idea that you can
trust the banks and the BBA with this is laughable.”  Deeply Embedded  Libor, a gauge of how much it costs banks to borrow from
one another, is so deeply embedded in the financial system it
can’t be replaced without potentially voiding existing
contracts, academics said. The BBA may instead overhaul Libor by
making banks base their submissions on actual trades, open
submissions to independent verification and increase the number
of firms that set the rate, investors said.  “You might be able to call the new benchmark Libor, but
because it’s not exactly the same measure, would that invalidate
all these thousands and thousands of contracts?” said Donald
Mackenzie, a professor at the  University of Edinburgh  who
specializes in the sociology of financial markets. “It’s
difficult to see that you can do much more than what the BBA is
already trying to do in terms of trying to improve an estimate-
based measure.”  The BBA is reviewing potential changes to the benchmark and
met regulators and bank executives last week. The rate is set
through a daily survey of firms conducted on behalf of the BBA
by  Thomson Reuters  Corp. in which banks are asked how much it
would cost them to borrow from one another for 15 different
periods, from overnight to one year.  Because banks have to submit a rate when no market exists,
and their estimates aren’t subject to outside verification, the
benchmark is vulnerable to manipulation, investors said.  Libor Review  The U.S. is conducting a criminal investigation into
suspected manipulation of benchmark rates including Libor, the
 Justice Department  said in a letter to a federal judge that was
made public earlier this month. The European Union, the U.K.
Financial Services Authority and the Monetary Authority of
Singapore have all started their own probes.  The BBA will shortly start a “technical” discussion with
Libor users and will update the FSA, Treasury and  Bank of
England  as it progresses, the group said in an e-mailed
statement.  Brian Mairs , a spokesman for the lobby group,
declined to comment further.  One way of restoring confidence would be for the BBA or
regulator such as the Bank of England’s proposed  Prudential
Regulatory Authority  to check that the rates submitted by banks
correspond with actual trades made by those firms on any given
day. Firms that misstate their cost of borrowing could be fined
or forced to compensate investors.  ‘Lack of Confidence’  Godfried de Vidts, president of Euribor-ACI, a lobby group
that represents about 5,000 money-market traders in the euro
area, made such a proposal to BBA Chief Executive Officer  Angela Knight  in July 2008, when the group last reviewed how Libor is
set after the  Bank for International Settlements  said banks may
have been wary of revealing their real borrowing costs.  “There has been a clear lack of confidence in the
monitoring of the Libor fixings,” de Vidts wrote in the letter,
published on the group’s website. “To make the scrutiny
mechanism more efficient and trustworthy local independent
supervisors should carry out periodical controls on
contributions.”  The BBA should also increase the number of banks that
submit the rate to make it more representative and less open to
claims of manipulation, said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-
income strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  Libor would be more reliable if banks were allowed to make
their submissions anonymously, Rieger said. That would reduce
the incentive on banks to under-report their borrowing costs to
appear stronger to investors, he said.  Barclays Report  Such a move would also bring Libor closer into line with
Euribor, the rate at which European banks say each other can
lend in euros. While 15 banks set yen Libor and 18 set dollar
Libor, 44 set the Euribor equivalent.  Euribor rate-setting banks are asked each day in a survey
how much a “prime bank,” rather than themselves, would pay to
borrow euros for different maturities. The results are collated
and published by Thomson Reuters on behalf of the European
Banking Federation, the BBA’s Brussels-based equivalent.
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  ICAP Plc (IAP) , the biggest broker of transactions between
lenders, started the  New York  Funding Rate, a measure of U.S.
bank rates, in 2008. The measure is based on a survey of how
much contributors estimate a “representative” lender would pay
to borrow each day.  Barclays Report  Some firms are already turning away from Libor and using
alternative rates to price trades. Barclays Plc, Britain’s
third-biggest lender, said in its annual report last week it’s
increasingly using the overnight indexed swap rate, a gauge of
expectations for central bank rates, rather than Libor as the
basis for prices on collateralized derivatives.  The London-based lender is switching to the “more
relevant” overnight indexed swap rate “in line with changes in
market practice,” the bank said in the filing. A Barclays
spokesman declined to comment beyond the document.  Overnight indexed swaps are over-the-counter traded
derivatives in which one party agrees to pay a fixed rate in
exchange for the average of a floating central-bank rate over
the life of the swap. For dollar swaps, the floating rate is the
daily effective federal funds rate, for euros the euro overnight
interbank average rate, and for pounds the sterling overnight
interbank average rate.  Eonia, Sonia  Rates based on recorded trades such as Eonia and Sonia are
gaining in popularity, said Mikhail Chernov, a professor of
finance at the  London School of Economics . The Eonia and Sonia
indexes are weighted averages of the cost for banks to borrow
from one another overnight in euros and sterling. The gauges are
based on weighted averages of all overnight unsecured lending
trades in the  interbank market  and are compiled by the EBF and
the Wholesale Markets Brokers’ Association, a London-based
industry group.  Using a transacted rate as the benchmark instead of Libor
carries its own problems, analysts said. In times of stress,
only the most creditworthy banks would be able to access the
short-term money markets, skewing the aggregate figure lower,
said  Joseph Abate , a strategist at Barclays in New York. Volume
data as well as price data should be referenced to measure
unsecured funding costs, he said.  1998 Change  The BBA has changed Libor before. Before 1998, the question
banks were asked was “At what rate do you think interbank term
deposits will be offered by one prime bank to another prime bank
for a reasonable market size today at 11 a.m.?” That year, it
changed to “At what rate could you borrow funds, were you to do
so by asking for and then accepting interbank offers in a
reasonable market size just prior to 11 a.m.?”  The switch, which forced banks to provide estimates of
their own cost of funding, had the “advantage of linking the
figures submitted by banks to their own activity,” the lobby
group said on its website.  After the 2008 review, the BBA increased the number of
banks on the dollar Libor panel to 20 from 16. Two firms have
since quit the panel. Lenders were also asked to justify any
discrepancies between their submissions and their competitors.  John Ewan, the BBA executive responsible for managing the
process by which Libor is set, said that Libor couldn’t be more
radically changed because the group has a duty to all users of
the rate -- including borrowers.  “We have a duty to all users, including those who have
taken out agreements with life-spans of decades into the future
based on a benchmark that they think they understand,” he said
in a July interview. “If we suddenly switched the benchmark
radically, that may give them problems.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net 
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 