-- Air India Aid Dwarfing Hospital Budget Adds to Kingfisher Pain
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-03-13T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/air-india-aid-dwarfing-hospital-budget-adds-to-kingfisher-pain.html
Air India Ltd. (AIND)  is set to get a 67.5
billion rupees ($1.4 billion) state bailout, almost double the
amount the federal government has spent on new hospitals over
the past three years.  The cash injection will be announced in the budget on March
16, said two people familiar with the matter. They declined to
be identified as they aren’t authorized to disclose the
information. The government may also pay off 180 billion rupees
of plane loans over the next 10 years, one of the people said.  India , which is facing surging rates of diabetes and has
the world’s highest number of people living with tuberculosis,
has already pumped 32 billion rupees into Air India since April
2009 as the carrier struggles with fuel and loan costs. The
unprofitable airline, the nation’s  third-largest , has also
helped prolong a price war that has contributed to losses at
listed  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  and Jet Airways (India) Ltd.  “Spending on health care is much more important than
propping up an airline,” said Prakash Gupta, head of Mumbai-
based non-profit public-health research firm Healis. The
government has put “a lot of money” into Air India already for
no return, he said.  A spokesman for  Air India  declined to comment on funding.
Satyendra Prakash, a  Ministry of Civil Aviation  spokesman,
didn’t answer two calls to his work phone as he was travelling.
Sheyphali B. Sharan, spokeswoman at the Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare, also didn’t answer two calls to her office.  New Equity  The aviation ministry has recommended giving the carrier
199 billion rupees of new equity in the five years to 2017,
according to a  report  submitted to the nation’s Planning
Commission, an agency that designs five-year economic and social
programs in India.  The Air India bailout compares with the about 38 billion
rupees that the federal government has  earmarked  for new public
health-care infrastructure since April 1, 2009, according to the
budget document for the current fiscal year. State governments
also have separate health-care budgets.  A shortage of investments means India has 9 hospital beds
per 10,000 people, compared with the  World Health Organization 
recommended norm of 30, according to the Planning Commission.
The ratio of government hospital beds to population is 15 times
lower in rural areas than in urban areas.  The country had 61.3 million people with diabetes as of
last year, second only to  China ’s 90 million, according to the
International Diabetes Federation’s website. About 1.5 million
people in India were also infected with tuberculosis in 2010.
That’s the equivalent to the population of Philadelphia.  ‘Strong Government Involvement’  “There are many arenas where strong government involvement
is not only justifiable but also desirable,” said Rishikesha Krishnan, a professor at the Indian Institute of Management,
Bangalore. “The airline business is not one of them.”  Public spending on health in India is 1 percent of gross
domestic product, according to the Planning Commission. The
health ministry earmarked about 660 billion rupees to provide
various health-care services and to pay salaries over the past
three fiscal years.  Private hospitals take care of more than 60 percent of all
patients in the country, the Planning Commission said in a
report last month.  Air India has been unprofitable since its 2007 merger with
state-owned domestic operator Indian Airlines Ltd. The Mumbai-
based carrier piled up losses of about 181 billion rupees in the
three years ended March 31, Vayalar Ravi, the then aviation
minister, told parliament on Nov. 24.  Airbus, Boeing  The airline has failed to turn surging demand into profit
as it struggles to combine operations following the merger. It
has 263 employees per aircraft compared to 102 of IndiGo, the
only profitable carrier in India.  Air India’s debts also swelled to 438 billion rupees
following orders in 2005 and 2006 for 111 planes from Airbus SAS
and  Boeing Co. (BA)  The tally includes 27 787 Dreamliners which the
airline is due to begin receiving this year.  Air India has helped drag down earnings at other airlines
by offering unprofitable fares, said Ajay Singh, co-founder of
Chicago-based Orchard Group, which advises airlines on cost-
cutting. Nationwide, airlines may lose $2.5 billion in the year
ending March 31, because of fuel costs and competition,
according to CAPA Centre for Aviation, an industry consultant.  “Air India continues to engage in a self-destructive fare
war,” said Singh. “Aiding the carrier with no clear signs of
operating performance improvements will only prolong the risks
to the industry.”  Billionaire Mallya  Kingfisher Airlines, controlled by billionaire Vijay Mallya, has cut flights and ended a budget service as it
struggles to pay employees, tax authorities and vendors. Last
week, it was suspended from three International Air Transport
Association payment systems after failing to settle accounts.  The airline, which reported more than 10 straight quarterly
losses, has been trying to raise funds from banks and investors
at least since November. Jet Airways, the nation’s biggest
carrier, also delayed tax payments this month after posting four
 straight quarters  of losses.  Jetfuel prices have jumped 18 percent in Mumbai in the past
year, according to Indian Oil Corp. website. The combined debt
of domestic airlines may reach $20 billion in the year ending
March 31, according to the Ministry of Civil Aviation.  “Bailouts without performance guarantees haven’t
historically worked,” Orchard Group’s Singh said. “That is
just a way to kick the can down the road.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  