-- Many Workers Have Savings Below $25K: EBRI
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/majority-of-american-workers-have-less-than-25-000-in-savings-ebri-says.html
About 60 percent of U.S. workers
said they have less than $25,000 in savings and investments,
according to an  Employee Benefit Research Institute  survey.  Workers’ confidence in their ability to retire remains
historically low, with about 14 percent saying they were very
certain they’d have enough to live on comfortably, according to
the report released today by EBRI, a Washington-based nonprofit
that studies employee benefits. That compares with a high of 27
percent in 2007.  “People get the fact they shouldn’t be optimistic, but
instead of saying I’m going to save more today, they just say
I’m going to defer my  retirement age  once I get to 65,” said
Jack VanDerhei, EBRI’s research director and a coauthor of the
study.  The savings figure doesn’t include the value of a person’s
home and any traditional pension plan, if they have one,
VanDerhei said in an interview before the study was released.
The median existing single-family home price was $154,400 in
January, down 2.6 percent from January 2011, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  About  half  of all U.S. workers don’t have access to a
retirement savings plan through their employer and many younger
people haven’t been saving long enough to build a large balance,
VanDerhei said of the findings.  “If you’re working for an employer who doesn’t sponsor one
for the majority of your working career, employees just don’t
save on their own,” he said. “So much of our retirement hopes
for people depends on what they do in their defined contribution
plans now.”  Retirement Security  Regulators and legislators have been looking at Americans’
retirement security because life expectancies are increasing and
savings have shifted from traditional pension plans, where
employers generally provided retired employees with lifetime
payments, to 401(k) accounts that individuals largely are
responsible for funding.  EBRI worked on the study with research firm  Mathew
Greenwald & Associates Inc.  About 1,000 workers and 259 retirees
age 25 and older were interviewed by telephone in January for
the survey, which EBRI has conducted for 22 years.  The low levels of confidence are a good thing because it
will hopefully lead people to take action, said VanDerhei. Yet
betting on working longer than age 65 rather than saving more is
very risky, said VanDerhei. Half of the retirees surveyed said
they were forced to retire earlier than they planned, he said.  Many workers have more immediate worries than saving for
retirement such as keeping their current job, the study said.
Less than one third, or 28 percent, said they were very
confident of having paid employment for as long as they need it
and 16 percent showed the same assurance that their investments
would increase in value.  Sooner Than Later  Individuals should assess their current situation and make
adjustments to their savings and spending sooner rather than
later to prepare for retirement, Greg Burrows, senior vice
president for  Des Moines , Iowa-based  Principal Financial Group (PFG) ,
one of the report’s underwriters, said. People should target
saving 11 percent to 15 percent of their wages annually
including any employer contribution, Burrows said in an
interview yesterday.  A separate study released last week by  T. Rowe Price Group
Inc. (TROW) , a mutual fund firm in Baltimore, and research firm  Harris
Interactive  found that about 60 percent of investors between age
21 and age 50 aren’t confident they’ll have enough money for
retirement. The T. Rowe survey was conducted online in December
and questioned 860 adults with at least one investment account.
Investors said they expected to retire on average at age 62 and
live an average of 22 years in retirement, the study found.  Funding Annuities  The government has focused on the risks of people outliving
their savings in hearings and studies of its own as Americans
live longer and are more responsible for managing their
retirement money. The U.S. Treasury Department proposed two
regulations last month to make it easier for workers to fund an
annuity through their company-sponsored pensions or 401(k)
accounts. Annuities are insurance contracts that guarantee a
lifetime stream of income in exchange for up-front payments.  About 12 percent of the retirees surveyed by EBRI said they
or their spouse had bought a financial product that pays them
guaranteed income each month for the rest of their life.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 