-- Takeda Actos Judge Names Lead Attorneys in Cancer Suits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-03-13T20:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/takeda-actos-judge-names-lead-attorneys-in-u-s-bladder-cancer-lawsuits.html
The judge overseeing lawsuits
alleging  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s Actos diabetes medicine
causes cancer appointed 19 plaintiffs’ lawyers to manage
litigation involving U.S. claims.  Takeda,  Asia ’s biggest drugmaker, may face as many as
10,000 claims that Actos causes bladder cancer after U.S.
regulators found last year the drug was linked to the disease.
Federal lawsuits against the drugmaker were consolidated before
U.S. District Judge Rebecca Doherty in Lafayette,  Louisiana , in
December. The first hearing on the cases is set for March 22,
according to court filings.  “The court has determined to effect the selection of lead
counsel, liaison counsel and plaintiffs’ executive and steering
committees before the March 22nd-23rd status conference,”
Doherty said in a  March 12 note  posted on the court’s website.  The lawsuits claim patients who use Actos, a prescription
drug approved to treat type 2 diabetes, face increased risks of
developing bladder cancer. The plaintiffs also claim that Takeda
and co-defendant Eli Lilly & Co., based in Indianapolis,
withheld information about the risk and failed to provide
adequate warnings.  Takeda pulled Actos, its top-selling drug, off the market
in Germany and  France  last year after it was linked to an
increased cancer risk. The medication had  sales  of
387.9 billion yen ($4.8 billion) last fiscal year, 27 percent of
the Osaka, Japan-based company’s revenue.  Lead Counsel  “Given that litigation is pending, we can’t comment,”
Jocelyn Gerst, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Takeda, said in a
telephone interview about the selection of the plaintiffs’
group.  Doherty named attorneys  Richard Arsenault  and  Paul Pennock 
as lead plaintiffs’ counsel in the case and also appointed them
to the executive committee, along with lawyers  Mark Robinson  and
 Hunter Shkolnik .  Arsenault, a products-liability lawyer based in Alexandria,
Louisiana, served as one of the lead lawyers in consolidated
cases filed against  Merck & Co. (MRK)  over its Vioxx painkiller that
resulted in a $4.85 billion settlement in November 2007.  Pennock, a New York-based attorney, was one of the lawyers
leading the consolidated suits against  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  over its
Seroquel antipsychotic drug. The London-based drugmaker agreed
last year to pay a total of about $350 million to resolve
patients’ claims that the drug caused diabetes.  Steering Committee  The Los Angeles-based Robinson, who has won multimillion-
dollar jury awards against carmakers such as Ford Motor Co., is
a co-lead counsel in sudden-acceleration lawsuits against  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)   Shkolnik, based in  New York City , served as a member of the
plaintiffs’ steering committee in lawsuits against  Medtronic
Inc. (MDT)  over flawed heart defibrillators. The cases later settled
for more than $114 million.  Other lawyers named to the plaintiffs’ steering committee
in the Actos cases include  Mark Lanier , a Texas-based lawyer who
won the first jury award against Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-
based Merck in the Vioxx litigation, and Chris Seeger, a New
Jersey-based attorney who also won a verdict against Merck on
behalf of Vioxx users.  The judge also named Andy Birchfield, an Alabama-based
lawyer who helped negotiate the $4.85 billion Vioxx settlement,
and  Vance Andrus , a Lafayette-based lawyer who was one of the
lead counsels in cases against  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GS)  over its
Avandia diabetes drug. The London-based drugmaker has agreed to
pay more than $700 million to resolve claims that Avandia caused
heart attacks and strokes in users.  The lawsuits are consolidated in In Re: Actos Products
Liability Litigation, 11-2299, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Louisiana (Lafayette).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  