-- Alcoholics Anonymous Tie Cited by SEC in Inside-Trading Case
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-03-13T20:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/alcoholics-anonymous-tie-cited-by-sec-in-insider-trading-claims.html
A Philadelphia investment adviser
is facing U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission claims that he
led a group that used nonpublic information divulged by an
Alcoholics Anonymous confidant to profit from a 2008 merger.  Timothy J. McGee and eight others made about $1.8 million
trading ahead of Philadelphia Consolidated Holding Corp.’s
announcement that it would be acquired by  Tokio Marine Holding
Inc. (8766) , the SEC said today in a  complaint  filed at  U.S. District
Court (1100L)  in  Pennsylvania .  In early July 2008, immediately after an AA meeting, an
executive with the Philadelphia firm, who wasn’t named in the
SEC complaint, told McGee that he was under pressure related to
merger negotiations, the SEC said. McGee, an  Ameriprise
Financial Inc. (AMP)  broker, then bought shares in the insurer and
tipped a co-worker, Michael Zirinsky, who purchased shares for
himself and in accounts held by his wife, sister, mother and
grandmother, according to the complaint.  “McGee stole information shared with him in the utmost
confidence, and as securities industry professionals he and
Zirinsky clearly knew better,” Elaine Greenberg, associate
director of the SEC’s Philadelphia office, said in a statement.  The SEC’s lawsuit also names Zirinsky and his father, who
made trades based on the tip, according to the complaint.
Zirinsky also told a friend in  Hong Kong  who settled the SEC’s
claims by agreeing to pay about $1.2 million without
acknowledging or denying wrongdoing.  “We have strict rules related to the use of material, non-
public information and have suspended Mr. McGee and Mr.
Zirinsky,” Ameriprise spokesman  Paul Johnson  said in a
statement. “We fully cooperated with the SEC on this matter and
conducted an internal review.”  A phone call to John Grugan, McGee’s attorney, wasn’t
immediately returned. Richard Levan, a lawyer for Zirinsky,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  