-- Americans More Confident in Housing Recovery
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/americans-grow-more-confident-in-housing-recovery-survey-shows.html
Potential homebuyers and sellers
are growing more confident that the U.S. real estate market will
begin to recover as soon as next year, according to a Prudential
Real Estate survey.  Sixty percent of people surveyed last month had positive
views about the housing market and 70 percent expected property
values to improve over the next two years, according to the
survey released today. About 63 percent of respondents said they
considered real estate a good investment, up from 52 percent
last year, the Irvine, California-based broker reported.  This is the second consecutive year consumer confidence in
housing has improved, signaling the  property market  may
“finally be climbing out of its deep hole,” Stephen Van Anden,
chief marketing officer for Prudential Real Estate, said in a
telephone interview.  While  foreclosures  and declining  home prices  have
contributed to a six-year real estate slump, rising  employment 
and low  mortgage rates  may be bolstering buyer confidence. The
 Federal Reserve , in its regional Beige Book business survey
issued Feb. 29, said the housing market “has improved somewhat
in most districts” with  Boston ,  Cleveland , Atlanta and Dallas
among cities reporting increases in home sales.  More than 90 percent of respondents in the Prudential
survey said the housing crisis is a reminder they must be more
cautious in buying and selling property. About 80 percent of
people polled said homeownership is important to them, while 15
percent said the economic downturn made owning a home less
important.  “There is still a desire for  homeownership , and as we see
continued improvement in the job market, there is going to be an
unleashing of pent-up demand,” Van Anden said.  Survey respondents were 25 to 64 years old with a household
income of at least $50,000, and either recently bought or sold a
home or are considering a purchase or sale. Prudential Real
Estate collected responses from 1,251 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 Charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  