-- American Apparel Said to Plan $75 Million Loan Refinance
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   H i t h a   P r a b h a k a r
-- 2012-03-13T20:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/american-apparel-said-to-plan-refinancing-of-75-million-revolving-loan.html
American Apparel Inc. (APP)  is close to
refinancing a $75 million loan that may allow the chain to
remove language from its public filings that it’s at risk of
ceasing operations, said two people familiar with the situation.  The retailer may sign an agreement with Boston-based
Crystal Financial LLC in the next two days to refinance the
credit revolver held by  Bank of America Corp. , said the people,
who declined to be identified because the negotiations are
private. The facility was due to mature on July 2. Crystal was
founded in 2010 and its lead investor is a fund backed by  George
Soros , according to its website.  American Apparel, based in  Los Angeles , has said in
quarterly and annual filings since 2010 that it may not have
enough cash to sustain operations for the next 12 months,
raising “substantial doubt that the company will be able to
continue as a going concern.”  Chief Executive Officer Dov Charney is trying to keep the
retailer afloat during a string of seven straight quarterly
losses that has forced it to raise cash from investors. American
Apparel’s revenue has gained in the past two quarters, and the
chain’s same-store sales rose 11 percent in January and
February.  American Apparel, which has about 250 stores in 20
countries, rose 12 percent to $1.02 at the close in  New York .
The shares gained 21 percent yesterday after the New York Post
reported on the potential deal.  Peter Schey , a spokesman for American Apparel, and Pam
Flores, a spokeswoman for Crystal Capital, declined to comment.  Loan Amendments  American Apparel in April sold $14.9 million in shares to a
group of investors from  Canada  to bolster its finances after
losing $86.3 million in 2010. The company also had to amend loan
agreements to avoid breaching debt covenants, including getting
waivers allowing it to file financial statements with the
“going concern” language.  Charney has said the losses were due to costs and
productivity declines related to replacing 2,500 workers after
immigration violations in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Hitha Prabhakar in New York at 
 hprabhakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  