-- AMR Risks Cash Drain as Discord Slows Union Concession Talks
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-03-13T18:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/amr-risks-cash-drain-as-discord-bogs-down-union-concession-talks.html
American Airlines (AMR) ’ push for $1.25
billion in labor savings is bogging down, possibly imperiling
its turnaround bid, as the union strife that preceded parent AMR
Corp.’s bankruptcy spills into a new round of talks.  A failure to win negotiated concessions would force AMR to
ask a bankruptcy judge to let it impose new contract terms,
adding legal steps to the process and delaying implementation of
changes the airline has said it needs to stem losses.  That would erode  AMR (AAMRQ) ’s $4.1 billion in cash and short-term
investments on hand as of Feb. 29, the same total as three
months earlier when the company filed for Chapter 11 protection.
The hoard, a record for a U.S. airline entering bankruptcy, has
bolstered American’s goal of fending off any suitors and
remaining an independent carrier.  “Cash is limited,”  Vicki Bryan , a senior bond analyst at
New York-based Gimme Credit LLC, said in an interview yesterday.
“It’s going to only get worse the longer the beast is bleeding.
That hemorrhaging is going to cost money.”  The prospect of a new labor-management standoff echoes the
five years of  failed contract talks  at the third-largest U.S.
airline before AMR entered bankruptcy. The  Fort Worth , Texas-
based company ended 2011 with its fourth straight annual loss,
pushing the cumulative deficit over that span to more than $6
billion.  ‘Extremely Slow’  While AMR hasn’t said when it will ask Judge Sean Lane in
 Manhattan  for the power to dictate contract terms, it has
signaled that such a step is near and noted that losses persist.
Bankruptcy law requires a good-faith effort to negotiate
concessions first.  “It is vital that we reach consensual agreements very soon
with all of our unions,”  Bruce Hicks , a spokesman for American,
said yesterday in a statement. “We are still a long way from
that point and can’t afford to continue at this extremely slow
pace.”  Since unveiling a plan for 13,000 job cuts on Feb. 1 and
beginning talks, American has been sued by its pilots and
challenged last week by work groups representing 49,700
employees to submit to binding arbitration. Labor makes up the
bulk of American’s plan for $2 billion in cost reductions.  ‘Mutually Beneficial’  “American must acknowledge that its term sheet is not
written in stone, but can and must be molded and transformed for
creative and mutually beneficial solutions,”  Laura Glading ,
president of the  Association of Professional Flight Attendants ,
told members in a hotline message.  The Transport Workers Union, which represents mechanics and
bag handlers, said after the arbitration request was submitted
that “all efforts” for direct negotiations had been exhausted.  While protracted legal wrangling with unions may deter
possible suitors because of questions about future costs,
jettisoning contracts over labor’s objections also may add to
the risk of a takeover, said Jeff Straebler, an independent
airline analyst in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  That’s because American’s three major unions and insurer
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. hold four of nine seats on AMR’s
unsecured-creditors committee, Straebler said.  “A potential acquirer could offer a deal that would secure
those votes, and would only need one more” to have a majority
of the panel, Straebler said.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  has said
it’s weighing a possible AMR merger, and TPG Capital and  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  also are evaluating bids, people familiar with
the matter have said.  Lessons From Delta  US Airways President Scott Kirby said today that building
support among bankruptcy constituents, particularly labor, was
among the lessons learned from the carrier’s failed 2006 hostile
takeover bid for Delta. Kirby, speaking at the JP Morgan Chase &
Co. Aviation, Transportation & Defense Conference, declined to
comment on AMR.  Even going to court to throw out labor contracts takes
time. Once such a request is made, a hearing must begin within
21 days, and the judge must rule within 30 days. Talks could be
held during the interval and lead to an agreement before a
judicial order.  American and its unions “just have such a long, bad
history that it may end up being the judge will have to make
unilateral decisions on what ends up being the new contracts,”
said  Michael Derchin , a CRT Capital Group LLC analyst in
Stamford, Connecticut. “It’s unfortunate from a labor
standpoint.”  The airline has blamed its bankruptcy filing in part on
annual labor costs that are about $800 million more than those
of its largest rivals,  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and
Delta.  Pension Freeze  With the latest negotiations stymied, American stepped back
on March 7 from a demand to terminate its underfunded pensions,
saying it would freeze plans for employees other than pilots.  A day later, the  Allied Pilots Association , TWU and the
flight attendants union asked the  National Mediation Board  to
intervene and send the airline’s job-cut plan to binding
arbitration. Neutral examiners would study positions on both
sides and craft solutions.  “What they’re asking for is pretty extraordinary,” said
 Richard L. Wyatt , a partner at Hunton & Williams in  Washington 
who has represented major airlines in collective bargaining
disputes. “The NMB doesn’t have that power. American is, for
better or worse, under supervision of the  bankruptcy court . I
can’t imagine they’d agree to this and basically take it out of
court oversight.”  March 19 Response  The mediation board asked American to respond to the
arbitration request by the close of business March 19, according
to the airline, which said it will focus in the meantime on
reaching agreements with its unions.  “Bargaining a consensual agreement may not prove to be
possible,” APA President  David Bates  told members last week.
The TWU reacted to the pension freeze by calling it a “major
move forward” while saying the union still needs “consensual
agreements with all TWU-represented work groups.”  United’s former parent,  UAL Corp. (UALAQ) , secured union agreements
to help cut spending by $4 billion, including eliminating almost
24,000 jobs, before leaving Chapter 11 in 2006. Delta got rid of
6,000 jobs in bankruptcy.  The former Northwest Airlines chopped its workforce by 22
percent while in court protection and imposed new contract terms
on attendants after bargaining failed. A year later, the
attendants union was still demanding that then-CEO Doug Steenland resign.  ‘Plunging Ahead’  “The history of airlines in bankruptcy has been one of
judges plunging ahead and the union and workers be damned,”
said Ray Abernathy, a spokesman for American attendants in their
1993 strike who now leads a Washington-based labor
communications firm. “That’s happened over and over again. I
don’t see anything here that would change that.”  Labor memories also run deep at American, where unions
agreed to $1.6 billion in givebacks in 2003 amid an earlier
bankruptcy threat. CEO  Tom Horton ’s predecessor,  Gerard Arpey ,
stirred hopes of management goodwill that year when he took the
job after those givebacks.  Pilots saw a similar opportunity with Horton, 50, who
succeeded Arpey on the day the company filed for Chapter 11,
said Sam Mayer, an APA spokesman.  “In our initial talks with the new CEO that was
emphasized: ‘You have an opportunity here to take the first
steps to reset the culture,’” Mayer said. “What we have seen
in the initial stages of this process is more of the same,
almost a doubling down of the old way of doing business.”  Even before last week’s efforts to inject the mediation
board into the bankruptcy cuts, the pilots union went to court
to challenge American’s right to rework labor contracts, forcing
the airline to defend another legal front.  “At the very least, this throws a wrench in the gears,”
 Robert Mann , a former executive at American who now runs
consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in Port Washington,  New York . “This
is a prima facie example of how toxic the relationship is all
across the property. This is just the tip of the iceberg, but
it’s obviously capable of taking down the whole ship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  