-- Anti-Obesity Soda Tax Fails as Lobbyists Spend Millions: Retail
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-03-13T13:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/anti-obesity-soda-tax-fails-as-lobbyists-spend-millions-retail.html
Last month, Hawaii lawmakers killed
a proposed tax that would have added 17 cents to a single-serve
bottle of soda. It was the second failed attempt, even though
Governor Neil Abercrombie had pushed the proposed levy.  Like many advocates of a sugary beverage tax, Abercrombie
faced a well-funded lobbying campaign from soda makers opposed
to such efforts, which are designed to stem rising rates of
obesity. Since the beginning of 2009,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ,  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO)  and the American Beverage Association have spent as much as
$70 million on lobbying and issue ads, according to the Center
for Science in the Public Interest, a proponent of soda taxes.  Efforts to enact such levies have foundered in 30 states.  “Whoever is loudest tends to control the discussion and,
generally speaking, you buy your microphone with money,” said
Judith Phillips, a research analyst for  Mississippi State
University  who studied the issue for lawmakers.  Health advocates agree soft drinks are an unhealthy source
of sugar in Americans’ diets. More than 35 percent of U.S.
adults and about 17 percent of youths -- or roughly 90 million
people -- are considered obese, according to the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention. Some say taxing soft drinks is
one of the most effective ways to reverse the trend.  Following the presidential election, states and cities may
restart a push on soda taxes. Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter
hasn’t ruled out a third try for a tax on sugary beverages. In
Baltimore, Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake wants to more than
double a 2-cent per container tax adopted in 2010 to 5 cents.
Richmond,  California , a San Francisco suburb, will put a soda
tax referendum to voters later this year.  Money Grab  Opponents of soft-drink taxes say they’re little more than
a money grab. Blaming obesity on sugary soft drinks misses the
real cause of the problem -- too many calories of any type going
in, and not enough going out, they say. In a paper titled “Our
Position on Obesity,” Coca-Cola cites 45 scientific studies,
reviews, and reports to contradict claims that sugar-sweetened
beverages are the primary cause of obesity.  Diana Garza Ciarlante, a Coca-Cola spokeswoman, declined to
comment, as did  Peter Land , a  PepsiCo (PEP)  spokesman. They referred
questions to the ABA.  Obesity in the U.S. comes at a “staggering” financial
cost, the CDC has said. Everything from treatments for diabetes
to lost work by obese employees cost Americans about $147
billion in 2008, according to one estimate cited by the agency.  In 2009, President  Barack Obama  recommended exploring a
federal tax on sugary drinks to help pay for health-care reform.
The effect was like shaking a can of Coca-Cola and cracking the
tab. Emboldened lawmakers in 30 states proposed levying their
own soda taxes on the $74 billion U.S. soft drink industry.  Budget Gaps  The love affair with soda taxes wasn’t simply about
improving citizens’ health; many states also aimed to close
budget gaps.  If a soda tax makes sense anywhere, it makes sense in
Mississippi, said Kelly Brownell, director of Yale University’s
Rudd Center for Food Policy & Obesity in  New Haven ,  Connecticut .
The state has the highest obesity rates in the U.S. -- 34
percent of  Mississippi ’s adult population is considered obese --
and increasing numbers of children are heading in that
direction.  “The fact that it got considered there at all is a
testament to how powerful the idea is,” Brownell said. “A
soft-drink tax is the only thing to address obesity that doesn’t
cost money and in fact generates money that you can use for
other important programs.”  In 2010, Mississippi state legislator John Mayo, a
Democrat, filed a bill to levy a 2-cent per ounce excise tax on
soft drinks. It would have added 24 cents to a 12-ounce can of
pop, or $1.35 to a $1.47 2-liter bottle of Coca-Cola. The
proposal included bottled tea and juices containing less than
100 percent fruit.  Long Odds  A legislator since 2000, Mayo had been around long enough
to know the odds were long that his bill would pass, he said in
an interview. He simply wanted a debate about whether sugary
beverages were making Mississippians fat.  When a politician starts making noises about soda taxes,
the state beverage association typically rolls into action.
Found in every state and made up of local manufacturers and
distributors, they work with the industry-funded ABA, creating a
network that reaches from town hall to the  U.S. Congress .  The soft drink companies are well represented at the state
level, as well. Coca-Cola’s North American bottling operation,
for example, has seven regional business units. Each has a
public relations and government affairs team whose sole
responsibility is to bore into local communities like moles.  Substantial Threat  Ron Aldridge, head lobbyist for the Mississippi Beverage
Association, said Mayo’s bill didn’t stand a chance. Still, he
was leaving nothing to chance.  “You take any threat as substantial in our world because
you never know how the public might move,” Aldridge said in an
interview. “You prepare for the worst.”  Aldridge, a lawyer and former state legislator in Jackson,
Mississippi, is state director for the  National Federation of
Independent Business , which he asked to speak out against Mayo’s
bill. His son was personal assistant to then Governor  Haley Barbour , who announced he’d veto Mayo’s proposal days after it
became public.  Meanwhile, Bill Brown, a  Pepsi (PEP)  distributor, said Mayo’s
bill could cost jobs in an already tenuous economy. Brown held
meetings to “educate” his workers about the threat and urged
them to call their local legislators in opposition. Flyers in
employee’s paychecks framed the message: “This is our
livelihood.”  Mayo’s bill died in committee.  The soft drink companies didn’t declare victory. Nor did
they in the 30 states where similar bills also foundered.  That’s because they know a growing stigma against sugary
drinks, fueled by findings that sugar can be addictive and
triggers cancer, may shift public sentiment, said Bonnie Herzog,
an analyst with Wells Fargo & Co.  “It’s an ongoing risk,” said Herzog, who is based in  New
York . “And over time that risk has increased.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  