-- Apple IPad Seen Helping Cathay on Rising Asia Shipments: Freight
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-14T05:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/apple-ipad-seen-helping-cathay-on-rising-asia-shipments-freight.html
Asian air cargo volumes are set to
rebound this year from the worst slide since the global
financial crisis as a strengthening U.S. economy and demand for
products such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPad revive exports.  The region’s air freight may rise as much as 8 percent in
2012, faster than any other part of the world, according to
estimates by  Boeing Co. (BA) , the largest U.S. aircraft maker. Shares
in  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  and  Korean Air Lines Co. (003490)  stand to
benefit from a cargo recovery, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Fears of an economic collapse have been replaced by
greater confidence that the advanced economies are slowly
recovering,” said  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Groep
NV in Singapore, who previously worked at the World Bank. The
rise in semiconductor booking data and increases in Asian
exports are “signs that the air cargo industry may recover more
quickly than most currently expect.”  The release of Apple’s latest iPad model, assembled in
 China  by  Foxconn Technology Group (FOXCGZ) , may help boost airline
companies’ profits and stocks, said Kelvin Lau, a transportation
analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets in  Hong Kong .  “The picture will be better in the second half,” Lau
said. “Air traffic globally, including cargo, will be on the
road to recovery and there might be some upside surprises.”  Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific “would be a good choice,”
Lau said. He reaffirmed his “hold” recommendation on the
company’s shares in December. The airline’s  stock  fell 2.4
percent to HK$15.20 as of 1:40 p.m. in Hong Kong after it
reported annual profit declined. Lau had a six-month share price
estimate of HK$14 at the end of 2011.  Leveraged to Growth  Airlines are the better bet among  Asia  transport shares,
HSBC analysts led by Mark Webb said in a March 1 report. Cathay
Pacific, the world’s No.1 international freight carrier, and
 Seoul , South Korea-based Korean Air Lines were the top picks.  “We are looking at growth starting at the second half,
with global growth of roughly 3 percent” for the year, Seattle-
based Tom Hoang, Boeing’s regional director for cargo marketing,
said in a phone interview. World air cargo posted almost zero
growth last year, according to data from Boeing.  Air cargo shipments to and from Asia probably will start
rising sometime this year, said  Andrew Herdman , director-general
in Kuala Lumpur for the  Association of Asia Pacific Airlines .  “Positive trends” in the  U.S. economy , including low
retail inventory, improving  consumer confidence  and a falling
jobless rate, may return world air cargo to growth, according to
Chicago-based Boeing’s Hoang. Asia may outperform the rest of
the world, he said, with air freight traffic increasing about 5
percent to 8 percent over last year.  Consumer Comfort  In the U.S., the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to
the highest level in four years in the week ended March 4.
Payrolls at U.S. employers rose by 227,000, more than forecast,
in February, the Labor Department said on March 9. The
unemployment rate of 8.3 percent was unchanged even as the labor
force rose by 476,000.  In  Europe , the 17-nation euro area on Feb. 28 reported
better-than-forecast  economic confidence  for February, adding to
indications the economy is steadying after a fourth-quarter
contraction.  There are “signs of a stabilization in the euro-area
economy,” European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said in
Frankfurt on March 8, noting that “downside risks” remain.  Asia, the biggest driver of world growth during the global
financial crisis, may see intra-regional demand for air freight
from  Japan ’s post-earthquake reconstruction this year and
sustained expansion in China, according to Hoang.  China Liquidity  The Chinese central bank since the start of December has
added liquidity via open-market operations and made two cuts to
banks’ reserve requirements after expansion slowed last year.
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao, giving his annual state-of-the-
nation speech last week, pledged to raise minimum wages and
boost public housing to sustain growth in the world’s second-
largest economy.  Airlines also are counting on the introduction of
electronic products, which require shipment of parts and
components, one of the biggest contributors to air cargo demand.
Taiwan-based Foxconn also makes  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  computers,
 Sony Corp. (6758)  televisions and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  game consoles.  “Whenever you’ve got a hot new item, the consumer says,
‘I’ve got to have it now,’” said Seattle-based Boeing spokesman
Bob Saling. “That can be a real driver of air cargo demand.”  Falling Freight  Still, growth is more likely in the second half of the year
than the first. Freight traffic in the Asia-Pacific region, home
to the world’s top cargo carriers, fell each month year-on-year
for 12 months through January, said the International Air
Transport Association, the main global trade body for airlines.
Reports from the  Airports Council International  show 10 months
of straight declines through January.  “There is still a perfect storm out there, with financial
markets remaining very weak and business sentiment good one week
and turning bad the next,” said Rafael Echevarne, director for
economics and program development at Montreal-based ACI, which
tracks global airport data, in a phone interview. For Asia’s air
cargo volume, “I wouldn’t be surprised to see growth remain in
negative territory this quarter or in the first half.”  Airlines have also been hit with higher fuel costs. The
price of  jet kerosene  is up 12.5 percent so far in 2012 to about
$136.7 a barrel in  Singapore .  Cathay Pacific doesn’t see “much signs of a pickup” in
the near term, Chief Executive Officer John Slosar told
reporters in Singapore Feb. 13: “I would hope in the second
half of this year things start to look better, but that will
very much depend on the economy.”  How Sustainable?  “It is hard to predict how sustainable the recovery in
economic fundamentals is or how soon it may translate into
market demand that would benefit air freight,” said Luo Yanyan,
a Shenzhen-based analyst at China Merchant Securities Co., the
nation’s No.4 listed brokerage by market value. “I wouldn’t
recommend Chinese airline stocks just yet, and I would wait
until at least after March when there is a clearer picture for
the industry’s growth.”  February, though, saw a jump in cargo volume in both China
and Hong Kong. Shanghai’s Pudong International Airport posted a
17 percent increase in cargo volume last month versus a year
before after a 21 percent decline in January. In Hong Kong,
volume rose 17.4 percent in the same period.  Capacity cuts may also help profits.  Singapore Airlines
Ltd. (SIA) , the world’s second-largest carrier by market value,
announced last month that it cut freight capacity by 20 percent
because of slumping demand and higher fuel prices. Cathay
Pacific has been “cutting capacity aggressively” on North
America and European routes, the company said last month.  “If we see more of this, it’s positive for the industry
and will help improve their profitability,” said Corrine Png, a
Singapore-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The near-term
outlook remains challenging but hopefully we’ll have some
potential upside surprises from the tech sector’s restocking and
new iPad shipments in the second half of this year.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  