-- Apple Said to Be Subpoenaed by U.S. About Google Mobile
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-03-14T16:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/apple-said-to-be-subpoenaed-by-u-s-regulators-on-google-s-mobile-search.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
subpoenaed  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  as part of its antitrust probe of Google
Inc., seeking information on how the computer maker incorporates
the search engine on the iPhone and iPad, two people familiar
with the matter said.  The agency’s request for documents includes the agreements
that made Google the preferred search engine on Apple’s mobile
devices, said the people, who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly and declined to be identified. Google rivals such as
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have criticized these agreements as
anticompetitive.  The subpoena indicates the FTC is intensifying its scrutiny
of Google’s business practices. Details of the Apple-Google
relationship may show whether Google is abusing its dominance of
Internet search to boost revenue in the mobile phone advertising
market, said Allen Grunes, an antitrust lawyer at Brownstein
Hyatt Farber Schreck LLP in Washington.  “As mobile search gets more widespread, the default
setting becomes more significant,” said Grunes, who doesn’t
represent Google or its rivals.  The FTC has sent subpoenas to other handset makers and
wireless carriers, said one of the people, who declined to name
the companies.  Advertising Rates  In its broader antitrust investigation of  Mountain View ,
California-based Google that began about a year ago, the FTC is
examining whether the company unfairly increases advertising
rates for competitors and ranks search results to favor its own
businesses, such as its social-networking site Google+, two
people familiar with the situation said in January.  Google has been the default search engine for the iPhone
since Apple introduced the device in 2007 and on the iPad since
its 2010 debut, as well as for the iPod Touch. Apple also uses
 Google Maps  as a favored service on the iPhone and iPad.  The FTC’s probe of Google is also looking at whether the
company is using its control of the Android mobile operating
system to harm competition, two people familiar with the probe
said last year. Apple and Google have been vying for leadership
in the smartphone market since the first Android-based handset
came out in 2008.  Mobile Versus Desktop  “It’s very likely in the next few years, we’ll see mobile
search outstripping desktop search,” said  Ben Schachter , a New
York-based analyst with Macquarie Capital who has a buy rating
on Google stock. Schachter estimated that by the end of the year
25 percent to 30 percent of searches would take place on mobile
devices, up from about 15 percent currently.  Schachter said consumers usually leave the default settings
on smart phones or other mobile devices.  “Most people don’t even know what default search means --
they just know there’s a box they can use to look for
information,” Schacter said.  Google’s Android became the dominant mobile phone operating
system last year and led the market with a 50.9 percent share in
the fourth quarter of 2011, compared with the iPhone’s iOS
mobile operating system’s 23.8 percent share, according to a
February report by Gartner Inc., a Stamford, Connecticut
researcher.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, Cecelia Prewett of the FTC, and Adam Kovacevich, a
Google spokesman, declined to comment on the subpoenas.  Search Earnings  Google last year earned $1.3 billion in search-related
revenue on Apple products, according to a March 8 report from
Macquarie Capital. Google paid Apple $1 billion to be the
default search engine, keeping only $335 million of the total
amount, the report said.  In January, eMarketer, a New York-based research firm,
estimated Google’s share of U.S. mobile-ad revenue was 52
percent in 2011, driven by searches. Google earns about 95
percent of all U.S. mobile-search ad revenue, the firm said.  Google was the leader in U.S. Internet search in February
with 66.4 percent of the market, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) , an
Internet market research firm based in Reston, Virginia.  Microsoft made a failed attempt to wrest away the default
search engine position on the iPhone from Google in 2010,
according to two people familiar with the matter, and Apple is
starting to use the U.K.-based OpenStreetMap Foundation’s
service, which may signal it’s seeking to ease its reliance on
Google Maps, according to the Macquarie report.  ‘Best Search Engine’  “Our sense is that Apple wants to help Google less and
less, but they still provide the best search experience for
Apple users,” Schacter said.  Apple sold more than 183 million iPhones and more than 55
million iPads by the end of last year. The products together
accounted for more than 70 percent of the company’s sales in the
last quarter.  The FTC’s subpoena is the latest twist in the relationship
between Google and Apple. The two companies were linked for much
of last decade, with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt  serving
on Apple’s board of directors.  The dynamic changed when Google announced it would
introduce Android to compete against the iPhone.  Schmidt left the board in 2009, the same year the FTC said
it was examining whether Apple and Google were violating
antitrust laws by sharing board members. Schmidt said the FTC
probe didn’t prompt his decision to step down from Apple’s
board.  Conflict between the two companies intensified as Apple’s
late co-founder Steve Jobs opened a patent battle against
companies whose mobile devices run on Android, including Samsung
Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp. (2498)   Joaquin Almunia , the European Commission’s antitrust chief,
said March 5 that he’ll decide next month on the future of the
EC’s 18-month antitrust probe into Google and notify the company
about any concerns.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net :
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  