-- Apple Spurs Record $1.24 Trillion Company Cash, Moody’s Says
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-03-14T13:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/apple-drives-record-1-24-trillion-of-company-cash-moody-s-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most
valuable business, led U.S. corporations in amassing a record
$1.24 trillion of cash last year as memories of the 2008 credit
crisis linger, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Excluding Apple, with $97.6 billion of cash and no
outstanding debt, the figure was relatively unchanged at $1.15
trillion, even as revenue and cash flow from operations rose to
a record, Moody’s analysts led by  Richard Lane  said in a report
yesterday. Investment-grade companies graded A3 or higher by
Moody’s hold $594.3 billion, or 54 percent, Moody’s said in the
report, which tracked cash and liquid investments for non-
financials.  “Treasurers have distinct memories of capital markets
closing very quickly, and I think companies in general are more
focused on controlling their fate from a funding standpoint and
part of that means being able to internally fund your investment
needs,” Lane said in a telephone interview. Still, “there’s a
large and growing use of the cash that these companies generated
over the last handful of years.”  The biggest U.S. nonfinancial corporations maintained
fortress balance sheets last year as the U.S. economic recovery
wavered and European policy makers struggled to contain the
sovereign-debt crisis. Companies increased  capital expenditures ,
dividend payments, share buybacks and acquisition spending, even
after posting record revenue of $10.4 trillion and  cash flow 
from operations of $1.3 trillion, according to Moody’s.  Record-Low Costs  Companies, including financial borrowers, sold $1.1
trillion of U.S. dollar-denominated debt last year, enticed by
record-low borrowing costs spurred by the  Federal Reserve 
leaving  interest rates  in a target range of zero to 0.25
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Companies have availed themselves of the low interest
rates this year or last year to either refinance debt or bring
debt into their  capital structure  for the first time,” Lane
said. “Taken together with the economic environment modest as
it was, even with increasing levels of cash outlays for research
and development, capex, dividends, buybacks and acquisitions, it
still resulted in companies growing aggregate levels of cash.”  Moody’s, which tracked those figures through the third
quarter of 2011, excluded Cupertino, California-based Apple,
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and EMC Corp. from the cash flow data and net debt
figures because they don’t rate the companies, Lane said.  Dividend Payments  Capital expenditures , or funds used for activities from
repairing a roof to building a new factory, rose to $714
billion, the highest since 2008, accounting for the biggest use
of cash from operations, the analysts said in the report.
Acquisition spending followed with $329 billion, while dividend
payments rose to $284 billion and share buybacks increased to
$194 billion.  Spending is likely to be about the same this year, as
Moody’s anticipates growth of 2.9 percent in G-20 economies from
3.1 percent last year, according to the report.  Moody’s estimates that companies hold almost $700 billion
of the cash, or 57 percent, overseas and are unlikely to pay
hefty taxes to repatriate it.  The increased liquidity on company balance sheets is good
for credit, because it protects corporations if  capital markets 
are disrupted, according to the report.  Investment-grade corporate bonds have returned 10.2 percent
since the end of 2010 as cash holdings have increased, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Speculative-grade
bonds have gained 9.8 percent in that time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  