-- ‘Arab Spring’ Stirs U.S. Worries After Year of Turmoil
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-03-13T00:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/arab-spring-s-enthusiasm-gives-way-to-continuing-crisis-for-u-s-allies.html
A year after the so-called Arab
Spring blossomed in  Tunisia  and spread with enthusiastic Western
support, developments in the region signal a protracted crisis
that could threaten Arab-Israeli peace, world oil supplies and
the U.S. fight against terrorism.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met with British Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  and other foreign ministers in New York
yesterday to discuss how to tailor support for countries such as
Syria, Libya, Yemen and Egypt. Clinton called for international
“norms” of free association, assembly and expression that are
integral to democracy, yet a different dynamic is playing out
across the Arab world.  Tunisia’s moderate Islamic government is muzzling the
press. Bahrain has cracked down violently on demonstrators.
Libya’s restive east, which holds much of the nation’s oil, is
proposing self-rule. In  Egypt , where a new Islamic-majority
government is poised to take power by July 1, pro-democracy
workers face trial and the new Parliament voted unanimously to
expel Israel’s ambassador to Egypt. Across the region, economies
are staggering and structures needed for political transition
don’t even exist.  “This was never going to be an Arab Spring, but an Arab
decade,” said Aram Nerguizian, a visiting fellow at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington policy
group. “We’re at the beginning of a protracted crisis. None of
these countries are really stable and Western diplomacy, led by
the U.S., can do little but muddle.”  Public Mood  Jon Alterman , head of the Middle East program at CSIS, said
that the absence of a strongman will make these new democracies
less reliable allies for the U.S. “Democracies are often
messy,” Alterman said in an interview. “Their policies change
depending on the public mood.”  It’s a reality the foreign ministers in  New York 
recognized. “We should not expect every time to have
governments we agree with,” Hague said at the International
Peace Institute yesterday in response to a question about his
assessment of the Arab Spring.  The stakes are highest in Egypt, the strategically placed
U.S. ally that has been the heart of moderate Sunni Islam and
forged the cold Arab-Israeli peace, said analysts such as
Nerguizian and  Robert Danin , a senior fellow at the Council on
Foreign Relations.  The uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  in February last
year kept away investors and tourists, draining the nation’s
foreign-exchange  reserves . Egypt is seeking a $3.2 billion loan
from the  International Monetary Fund  to help carry the economy
through the political transition.  Home to one-quarter of the Arab world’s population, Egypt
will shape the future of political Islam, the region’s economic
health and the future of Arab-Israeli relations through its
transition, Danin said.  Egypt Leads  “Regardless of what happens, or the direction it takes,
what happens in Egypt will reverberate widely throughout the
region,” Danin said in an interview.  Egypt’s revolution is still in progress, said  Marina Ottaway , head of the Middle East program at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, a  Washington  policy group.
Confrontation between the military regime and forces pushing for
change, including the Muslim Brotherhood and other Islamic
groups, is coming soon, she said.  Ottaway cited symbolic parliamentary votes to expel the
Israeli ambassador, end the $1.3 billion in annual U.S. aid and
declare no-confidence in the current, presidentially appointed
Cabinet.  ‘Real Struggle’  “The forces that want change are saying ‘power now rests
with us and we’re going to exercise it,’” Ottaway said in an
interview. “What we are seeing right now is the real struggle
to see whether there’s going to be a real revolution or not in
Egypt. Keep in mind the Mubarak regime has not been undone.”  The meeting yesterday at the  United Nations  gathered
foreign ministers from  Russia , France, Germany, Portugal and
Guatemala, and ambassadors from other Security Council
countries. On the sidelines, Clinton discussed the  Syria  turmoil
with Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  and participated in
a session of the so-called Mideast Quartet to discuss the
stalled Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations.  As the Quartet -- the U.S., UN, EU and Russia -- announced
no progress apart from a decision to meet again next month,
Clinton acknowledged the limited ability the U.S. and others
have to direct the political currents in the region.  “These revolutions are not ours,” she said at the foreign
ministers’ meeting on the Arab Spring. “They are not by us, for
us or against us.”  ‘Sober Moment’  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon told the assembled
officials the Mideast had reached a “sober moment.” He offered
examples of progress -- a democratizing Tunisia,  Libya 
discarding decades of dictatorship, Yemen’s newly elected
president. Yet all three have decidedly mixed prospects, and the
slide toward civil war in Syria hung over the talks.  Elliot Abrams, a national security adviser to former
President  George W. Bush , warned in the Washington Post on March
11 that Tunisian moves to censure the press by jailing TV
network executives and newspaper publishers could lead to other
curtailed freedoms under its Islamic government.  Yemen, where the U.S. carried out four air strikes against
al-Qaeda-linked militants on March 11, according to the
 Associated Press , could continue to be a source of instability
in the Gulf, Nerguizian said.  Libya ‘Disintegrating’  Eastern Libya, which accounts for about 66 percent of the
country’s  oil production , declared itself an autonomous region
March 6, drawing condemnation from the ruling Transitional
National Council and warnings from the Pretoria, South Africa-
based Institute for Security Studies of a “high likelihood of
the country disintegrating.”  Libya illustrates another challenge facing most Arab Spring
countries, one that could undermine the democratic progress the
U.S. wants to see. Once the regimes have been peeled away,
there’s often little state structure underneath. Former leader
 Muammar Qaddafi  ground out virtually all Libyan civil society
during his 42-year hold on power.  “We have -- and I make no apology for repeating this again
-- all the institutions of the state to rebuild from scratch, a
huge challenge, but a truly exciting one,” Libyan Prime
Minister Abdurrahim el-Keib said in Washington March 9.  Ban highlighted other worries, including President Bashar al-Assad’s violent repression in Syria, the crackdown by
Bahrain’s Sunni monarchy on the restive Shiite majority and
political uncertainty in Egypt, where he urged a “peaceful and
early transfer of power to a civilian government.”  Signs don’t point to the pluralistic, democratic future
that Clinton called for in New York.  Women’s Rights  Egyptian women have suffered setbacks, a possible harbinger
of steps to come and of possible threats to religious minorities
such as Coptic Christians. The dominant Islamic bloc in Congress
called for replacing the National Council for Women with a
council for families. And on March 11, a military court
acquitted a doctor accused of forcing a female pro-democracy
protester to undergo a virginity test, contradicting evidence
that the test occurred.  “There’s been a notion that given a choice, most people
want to be liberal and secular,” Alterman of CSIS said. “The
justification for this has been a long line of people who want
to come to the  United States . But we haven’t seen the long list
of people who don’t want to be liberal and secular and the long
line of people who don’t want to come to the United States.”  “Maybe these people have found their voice as well,”
Alterman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at  at  jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  