-- Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, Parking Spurs Buyer Interest
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-03-14T06:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/harrisburg-pennsylvania-parking-spurs-buyer-interest.html
Harrisburg (9661MF) , the  Pennsylvania 
capital whose insolvency sparked a decision to default on some
general-obligation bonds, got inquiries from Morgan Stanley and
13 other companies on buying or leasing its parking system.  A different Morgan Stanley venture may earn a $9.58 billion
profit from a 75-year lease of Chicago’s parking facilities,
based on documents from the group. Other potential bidders that
expressed interest in the Harrisburg operations include
financial services firms, parking companies and a pension fund.  “It’s extremely good for the city,” said Bob Philbin, a
spokesman for Mayor  Linda Thompson . “It speaks well for the
perceived value of the assets.”  Selling or leasing assets is part of a plan from David Unkovic, Pennsylvania’s first municipal receiver, to deal with
more than $300 million in incinerator-related debt, five times
the city’s general-fund budget. The community of 49,500
residents backed financing an overhaul of a waste-to-energy
plant which hasn’t produced enough revenue to cover the cost.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is partnering with  Central Parking Corp. (PK)  of
Nashville,  Tennessee , on the Harrisburg inquiry, according to a
list from McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP, a  law firm  working for
Unkovic. The New York-based bank, joined by Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority and Allianz Capital Partners, set up a venture to
lease Chicago’s parking operations in 2008, and the profit was
estimated based on projections in a 2010 offering document.  Others in Pennsylvania  Other parties in Pennsylvania that sent inquiries were
Boenning & Scattergood, a securities broker in  West
Conshohocken , and  Brandywine Realty Trust (BDN) , a Radnor real estate
investment trust. Firms calling themselves Harrisburg Forward
LLC, Harrisburg Parking Partners LLC, and Keystone Parking Group
also submitted statements of their qualifications to bid,
according to McKenna Long. The firm didn’t say where any of the
companies are based.  Most inquiries came from out of state, including Guggenheim
Partners, a financial services firm in New York; InterPark
Holding Inc., a parking manager and developer in  Chicago ;
 National Development Council , a community and economic-
development organization in New York;  NW Financial Group LLC , a
 Jersey City , New Jersey-based investment bank; a partnership
between the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Fund and Vancouver-based
 Impark Parking Corp. (2896591Q) ;  PaNGo Mobile Parking ; QIC Private Capital,
part of the Australian fund manager QIC Ltd.; and  Vion Municipal
Capital , part of Vion Receivable Investments of Atlanta.  Facilities in Play  Unkovic may put up for grabs 10 parking garages, five
surface lots, and 1,250 metered spaces, which provide 72 percent
of the public parking in the city. In 2010, the Harrisburg
Parking Authority, which owns the facilities, reported $13.8
million in revenue. The deadline to submit bidding
qualifications was March 12.  “We want to move expeditiously,” Unkovic said yesterday
by telephone. “We need to solve this problem.”  City officials are aware of Morgan Stanley’s history with
the Chicago transaction and “will scrutinize every proposal,”
said Philbin, the mayor’s spokesman.  In 2008, a Morgan Stanley-led partnership agreed to a deal
with Chicago whose profit before interest, taxes and
appreciation is estimated at almost 10 times the $1.15 billion
it agreed to pay over the life of the lease, based on the
offering document issued in 2010. Mary Claire Delaney, a Morgan
Stanley spokeswoman, declined to comment on Harrisburg.  Other Assets  On March 5, the city got five submissions expressing
interest in buying the incinerator, whose debt load pushed the
community into insolvency. Another five submitted qualifications
to run the water and sewer systems.  None were required to say how much they may offer for any
of the facilities or operations.  Unkovic has said he expects to negotiate with a smaller
number of prospective buyers and close any transactions by June,
subject to court approval.  Once he knows the value of the assets, Unkovic has said
he’ll determine how to tackle the remainder of the city’s debt.
His plan for fiscal recovery was approved by the state’s
Commonwealth Court, which deals with state legal matters, on
March 9.  Harrisburg will skip $5.27 million in general-obligation
bond payments due March 15, Unkovic said in a March 9 notice.
The money saved will provide enough cash to pay for vital
services such as police and firefighters, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia
at   rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 