-- Arsenal Mounts Another Premier League Comeback to Beat Newcastle
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-13T00:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/arsenal-mounts-another-premier-league-soccer-comeback-to-defeat-newcastle.html
Thomas Vermaelen  scored in the
fifth minute of stoppage time as Arsenal beat Newcastle 2-1 to
secure its sixth come-from-behind win of the English Premier
League soccer season.  Vermaelen netted at the far post after running the length
of the pitch at the Emirates Stadium in north  London  last night
to extend Arsenal’s winning streak to five league games and lift
it to within one point of third-place Tottenham.  “We showed the mentality of fighters,” Vermaelen told  Sky
Sports . “In the second half we were pushing and pushing. We
knew we had to be patient and in the end we will score a goal.”  Hatem Ben Arfa’s 14th-minute strike put Newcastle ahead
before  Robin van Persie  tied it 55 seconds later with his 26th
league goal of the season. Vermaelen’s winner made Arsenal the
first team to rally for four straight Premier League wins after
also coming from behind against Sunderland, Spurs and Liverpool.  While Arsenal stays in fourth place with 52 points, the
Gunners now trail Spurs by a single point having been 12 behind
their north London rivals at the start of February. Third place
gains automatic qualification to next season’s  Champions League .  “Tottenham have got to be watching over their shoulders
now,” Arsenal winger Theo Walcott told Sky Sports. “It’s been
an up and down season, but it’s the way you finish, and that’s
the most important thing.”  Manchester United  replaced  Manchester City  at the top two
days ago as it beat West Bromwich Albion 2-0 and its cross-town
rival lost at Swansea. United has 67 points to City’s 66.  Newcastle remains in sixth place with 44 points. Seventh-
place Liverpool hosts ninth-place Everton tonight with two
points separating the Merseyside rivals.  Arsenal Trails Again  Ben Arfa put Newcastle ahead when he cut in from the right
before beating Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny at his near
post with a left-foot shot.  Van Persie tied it within a minute, drilling a low shot
into the corner to take his tally to 44 goals in his past 45
Premier League games. The strike also gave  Van Persie  the
single-season record for Premier League goals by a Dutchman,
surpassing Ruud van Nistelrooy’s 25 goals in 2002-03.  Tomas Rosicky  miscued his shot midway through the second
half and Van Persie and Gervinho had chances to put Arsenal
ahead in the last 12 minutes, though both shot wide. Newcastle
goalkeeper Tim Krul then acrobatically tipped Vermaelen’s goal-
bound header over the crossbar in the 90th minute.  Vermaelen got the winning goal five minutes later, sweeping
in from close range after Newcastle failed to clear Walcott’s
cross from the right.  “It needed something special to beat them,” Arsenal
manager  Arsene Wenger  told Sky Sports. “And what beat them was
our relentless effort just to win the game. We just did not
stop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  