-- Harvard, Stanford Top U.S. News Business Schools as NYU Drops
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/harvard-stanford-top-u-s-news-business-schools-as-nyu-drops.html
Harvard University  and  Stanford
University  tied atop U.S. News & World Report’s ranking of
business schools, while  New York  University’s program dropped
out of the list’s top 10.  The University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School placed
third, and business schools at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, the University of Chicago, and Northwestern
University tied for fourth, U.S. News said today in a statement.  The magazine  ranks  U.S. business schools according to
evaluations by officials at other institutions and recruiters;
graduates’ comparative success in getting jobs, salaries and
bonuses; and measures of the schools’ selectivity for admission.
The average starting salary and bonus at Stanford Graduate
School of Business was $141,000 in 2011, while Harvard Business
School graduates averaged $140,000, U.S. News said.  NYU’s Stern School of Business, which tied for 10th place
last year with Yale University’s School of Management in New
Haven, Connecticut, dropped to 11th this year, while Yale stayed
the same. Yale hired Edward “Ted” Snyder as dean from the
 University of Chicago ’s  Booth School of Business  in July and is
constructing a $222 million building to distinguish the school
among competitors.  Stanford, located near Palo Alto,  California , got the top
ranking for a third year in a row. By tying Stanford, Harvard
Business School, in Boston, regained the No. 1 ranking after
dropping to second last year. Before that, Harvard had led or
tied for first for eight straight years, U.S. News said.  The University of California, Berkeley’s Haas School of
Business, Columbia University’s Columbia Business School in New
York, and Dartmouth College’s Tuck School of Business ranked
seventh, eighth and ninth, the magazine said. MIT’s Sloan School
of Management is located in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and
Northwestern’s Kellogg School of Management is based in
Evanston, Illinois. Dartmouth’s Tuck School is in Hanover, New
Hampshire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  