-- Asian Stocks Advance on Optimism Euro Leaders Will Complete Greek Bailout
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-03-13T10:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/asian-stocks-advance-on-optimism-greek-bailout-to-be-compeleted-this-week.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the
benchmark index reversing yesterday’s losses, as euro-area
finance chiefs gathered to complete a second Greek bailout.
Shares also climbed on expectations of rising U.S. retail sales.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s biggest bank by market value,
rose 1.4 percent in  Hong Kong . Wynn Macau Ltd., a unit of the
casino operator founded by billionaire Steve Wynn, jumped 8.6
percent after Deutsche Bank AG said Macau casino revenue may
grow 25 percent. Camera maker  Canon Inc. (7751)  dropped 0.7 percent in
 Tokyo , reversing gains after the Bank of  Japan  decided against
expanding its asset-purchase program and the yen strengthened.  “We’re starting to feel more confident and it’s going to
be a good year, particularly in equities,” Kirk West, Sydney-
based executive director of international investments at
Principal Global Investors, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. The firm oversees about $215 billion in assets. “In
the U.S., it’s all about jobs. Jobs growth has continued and
will ultimately lead to further consumption and that’s a
virtuous cycle.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.6 percent to 126.96 as
of 7:12 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than twice as many stocks
climbing as falling. All but one of the industry groups in the
measure advanced.  BOJ Stands Pat  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 0.1 percent, almost
erasing an earlier gain of 1.2 percent, after the Bank of Japan
left its asset purchase fund at 30 trillion yen ($365 billion).
The bank surprised investors last month by expanding the fund,
weakening the yen and boosting stocks.  South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 1.1 percent, while
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index increased 1.2 percent.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  gained 4.5 percent to A$1.73 in Sydney
after Macquarie Group Ltd. raised the carrier’s rating to
“outperform” from “neutral,” saying a stronger Australian
dollar will help offset higher fuel costs.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 1 percent. Russian
aluminum producer United Co. Rusal was suspended from trading on
Hong Kong’s bourse at the request of the company. Chairman
Victor Vekselberg resigned, according to a statement posted
online yesterday, saying Rusal had “deteriorated from an
international aluminum leader into a company overburdened with
debt and entangled in numerous lawsuits and social conflicts.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which tracks the larger of
 China ’s main stock exchanges, gained 0.9 percent after Deutsche
Bank AG raised its forecast for the nation’s economic growth
this year and amid speculation the government will take steps to
bolster exports.  Greek Bailout  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  rose 0.6 percent
today. The index was little changed in  New York  yesterday ahead
of a policy decision by the  Federal Reserve  today.  Asian companies that do business in Europe advanced today
as the region’s finance ministers meet in Brussels to sign off
on a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) bailout for  Greece .
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said he had “no
doubt” that the package would be approved and he expected a
final decision on March 14.  HSBC rose 1.4 percent to HK$68.80, while Perfectech
International Holdings Ltd., a packaging products maker that
gets about a third of its revenue from  Europe , gained 1.4
percent to 72 Hong Kong cents.  Shares also rose ahead of a report today expected to show
U.S. retail sales climbed the most in five months in February.  Billabong, Kia Rise  Billabong International Ltd., a surfwear company that
counts the Americas as its biggest market, rose 1.8 percent to
A$2.80 in Sydney. Kia Motors Corp., a carmaker that depends on
 North America  for about a fifth of its sales, gained 1.3 percent
to 73,000 won in Seoul.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 11 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 9 percent advance by the  S&P
500  and an 8.3 percent increase by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 14.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times for the S&P 500
and 11.1 times for the Stoxx 600.  Wynn Macau surged 8.6 percent to HK$23.35 in Hong Kong.
Deutsche Bank said revenue at Macau casinos would grow 25
percent this year, up from an earlier estimate for 20 percent
expansion. The stock had the  biggest gain  in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index.  Longfor Properties Co. jumped 6.1 percent to HK$11.44 in
Hong Kong. The developer, which yesterday posted revenue of 24.1
billion yuan ($3.8 billion) for full-year 2011, is targeting 39
billion yuan in sales this year, China Business News reported,
citing an unidentified official from the company.  Among stocks that fell, car-lamp makers  Koito Manufacturing
Co. (7276)  and Stanley Electric Co. plunged after saying they are being
investigated by Japan’s Fair Trade Commission for possible
price-fixing. Koito slid 6.9 percent to 1,341 yen. Stanley
dropped 8.9 percent to 1,271 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  