-- Asian Buyers Buoy New-Home Demand in California’s Orange
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-03-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/asian-buyers-buoy-new-homes-in-california-s-orange-county.html
Connie Wang paid about $960,000
last June for a new four-bedroom, four-bath house in a sprawling
swath of Southern California that’s home to Disneyland and
Pimco. Now she may buy a second as an investment.  “You know why Orange County is doing better?” said Wang,
a native of  Taiwan  who splits her time between Shenzhen in
southern  China , where she oversees a toy-manufacturing business,
and Irvine, California, where she raised her three children.
“It’s because all my neighbors are from China and Taiwan, and
they all bought their homes in cash.”  Demand for newly built houses is rising in Irvine and
surrounding cities, an affluent region south of Los Angeles
whose employers include Walt Disney Co., fund manager Pacific
Investment Management Co. and technology companies  Broadcom
Corp. (BRCM)  and  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  Orange County home sales are
being driven up by Asian-born buyers who are lured by lower
prices following the housing collapse and proximity to Chinese,
Vietnamese and Korean communities. Homebuilders are adding
features such as wok kitchens and feng shui layouts to some
properties to cater to Asian buyers.  In the county, situated along 42 miles (68 kilometers) of
Pacific coastline, 2,572 homes sold in December, double the
number in the January 2008 trough and more than the 93 percent
increase across Southern California, according to DataQuick, a
San Diego-based provider of property information. The increase
in January, the latest month for which figures are available,
was 46 percent in Orange County and 45 percent throughout
 Southern California .  New-Home Demand  Orange County is a rare region where new-home purchases are
increasing. Sales of newly constructed homes rose to 80
properties in January, up 63 percent from a post-peak low in
February 2009, according to DataQuick. That compares with 1,417
nationwide, a 23 percent decline, and 669 in California, down 21
percent and the lowest in a decade.  Demand has kept property values from declining as much in
Orange County as in other regions. The median home price was
$392,000 in January, down 39 percent from the June 2007 peak.
That’s less than the 49 percent decline across Southern
California and the 51 percent slump nationwide, DataQuick said.  By the time Wang bought her property, prices had rebounded
20 percent from the post-peak low, in January 2009. That
compares with a 15 percent increase across Southern California.  “In Asian-focused communities, prices have held up
phenomenally well,” said Eric Sussman, a senior lecturer at the
Ziman Center for Real Estate at the  University of California ,
 Los Angeles . “Culturally speaking, Asians tend to have a much
longer-term view than Americans do. They look at real estate as
multigenerational, not short-term focused. That’s why they are
making purchases during times when others may shy away.”  Boom and Bust  Orange County, where Walt Disney built his first theme park
and the teen television drama “The O.C.” took place, has close
ties to the U.S. housing boom and bust. Firms including  New
Century Financial Corp. (NEW)  and Ameriquest Mortgage Co., whose loose
lending standards fueled the national real estate bubble, had
their headquarters in the area before the subprime collapse.  The  unemployment rate  in Orange County was  8 percent  in
January, less than the 10.9 percent figure for all of California
and 8.3 percent for the U.S., according to the state’s
Employment Development Department. The median household income
in the county, home to 3 million people, was  $74,344  as of 2010,
more than the $60,883 median statewide, according to U.S. Census
Bureau data.  Seattle, Silicon Valley  Asian buyers have helped increase home sales in other parts
of  North America  as well. Interest in investment opportunities
and second homes from buyers from  Hong Kong  and China has
boosted purchases in  Vancouver ,  Seattle , California’s Silicon
Valley and Hawaii.  In Orange County, Mei Zhou, 50, said she and her husband
decided to buy a four-bedroom, four-bathroom house in  Irvine , 40
miles southeast of Los Angeles -- a $1.2 million purchase last
May -- because it was a “good deal” for a long-term
investment.  “We didn’t think of moving, but then I thought it’s a
buyer’s market,” said Zhou, who’s originally from  Shanghai  and
moved to California 20 years ago. “I definitely think I got a
better deal than I would have a few years ago. Back in 2005, I
think this house would have cost at least $1.4 million.”  New Home Co.  opened Carmel at Woodbury, the Irvine
development where Wang bought her house, in February 2010. The
Aliso Viejo, California-based builder sold its last two homes at
its Four Quartets neighborhood last month, bringing sales in the
village of Woodbury to 124 in the past two years, according to
Joan Marcus-Colvin, New Home’s vice president of sales,
marketing and design. About 75 percent of the buyers were of
Asian descent, she said.  Wok Kitchens  To accommodate the increase in demand from Asian buyers,
closely held New Home is building dedicated wok kitchens at some
homes at another of its developments,  Lambert Ranch , in Irvine.
The small room is adjacent to the standard kitchen, and has a
stove and high-powered vent. Most of the properties also have
separate living quarters for extended family, according to
Marcus-Colvin.  “After our last focus group, we really wanted to
accommodate these changing demands,” she said. “A lot of our
Asian buyers have asked for these features and the feedback from
those we’ve shown the new properties to has been, ‘You really
listened to us.’”  Vietnamese, Korean Buyers  The percentage of Asians looking to acquire a home in the
area with the help of Coldwell Banker rose to about 25 percent
in the past six months from 10 percent at the peak of the market
in 2006 and 2007, according to Steve High, a Newport Beach,
California-based sales associate at the broker, which handles
new and existing homes. A majority are originally from China,
with others from  Vietnam  and  Korea , he said.  Andrew Vu, who moved to Orange County from Vietnam with his
parents 33 years ago, bought a two-story, four-bedroom house in
Garden Grove, in June for $530,000. Vu -- who also owns two
other homes, in  Corona  and Victorville, as investments -- said
he appreciates the proximity to shopping areas and freeways
offered by his new home, in Brandywine Homes’ Pomelo
development.  Vu, 37, also said he enjoys being near Little Saigon in
Westminster, which is dominated by local Vietnamese stores.
Street signs are in both English and Vietnamese, and Asian-style
archways mark the entrances to strip malls.  “I like the area and, over the long run, it’s an
investment,” he said. “I think we reached the bottom, and it
can only go up from here.”  Sales Rate Rise  At Pomelo, 20 single-family homes priced from $499,000 to
$550,000 sold between March and December of last year, according
to Dave Barisic, vice president of sales and marketing at
Irvine-based  Brandywine Homes . About 90 percent of buyers are of
Asian descent, he said.  The rate of home sales has risen to about four a month,
twice last year’s pace, Barisic said. At the company’s Century
Village development in Garden Grove, which opened Jan. 14, nine
properties have sold so far.  “For our buyer profile, buying a new home is just as much
an investment, like a mutual fund, as it is a lifestyle and a
place to live,” Barisic said.  Asians made up the second-largest ethnic population in
Orange County in 2010 at almost 18 percent, behind Hispanics,
who accounted for 34 percent, according to the  U.S. Census
Bureau . California as a whole is 13 percent Asian.  Separate Quarters  Vu, who owns a local six-store retail chain, Warehouse
Furniture Outlet, made sure his new house had a separate living
area for extended visits from family and friends. Zhou, who owns
a computer network consulting firm with her Taiwanese-born
husband, also wanted her new home to have two master bedrooms --
one downstairs and one upstairs -- with their own bathrooms to
accommodate any immobility that may come as the couple ages, as
well as long-term visitors.  Standard Pacific Corp. (SPF) , based in Irvine, has begun to cater
to culturally specific preferences, including building wok
kitchens and incorporating feng shui and numerology rules, such
as leaving out unlucky numbers from street addresses, according
to Ted McKibbin, president of the builder’s Southern California
coastal division.  Under the Chinese system of feng shui, buildings are
oriented in a favorable manner, often determined by the location
of bodies of water, stars or compass directions.  Feng Shui  “Good feng shui falls under good design principals, the
way a cook top and sink are lined up with each other,” McKibbin
said. “But with some buyers there’s more focus on that. That’s
when things like numerology come into place, which can place
challenges in regards to addressing a home and avoiding certain
numbers. We do pay attention to that.”  Standard Pacific last month reported a fourth-quarter
profit of $15.3 million, compared with a year-earlier loss of
$21.9 million, helped by a 44 percent net increase of new orders
to 615. The company opened its Castillian development at
Blackstone in Brea, in northern Orange County, in mid-March and
sold 31 of the project’s 38 units during the following nine
months. The houses were priced at about $1 million each.  Smaller design adjustments may also include solid, easy-to-
clean surfaces in the kitchen, porcelain floors and streamlined
contemporary designs, according to New Home Co.’s Marcus-Colvin.  Demand from Asian buyers has been specific to pockets in
Orange County, while a broader, lasting recovery in Southern
 California  is dependent on an economic rebound, said Sussman,
the UCLA professor.  ‘Localized’ Recovery  “Everything is still incremental,” he said. “Until
there’s a sustainable recovery in  consumer confidence  and
employment and better availability of financing, the recovery in
Southern California will be localized.”  In the meantime, investors such as Zhou remain confident
that now is the time to purchase.  “It’s a great investment for the long term,” Zhou said.
“It’s the best thing I’ve ever done for myself other than
coming to the  United States .”  Wang, the Taiwanese native who manufactures toys in China,
is happy enough with her Irvine home that she is considering
buying another house -- in New Home Co.’s Lambert Ranch
development, which opens next month -- as an investment.  “Buying now is a good investment,” Wang said. “The
school system is great, the roads, the convenience, the weather.
Irvine is the most beautiful place I’ve ever been to. It’s a
great time to buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  