-- ASX Chairman Gonski to Step Down to Manage Australia Future Fund
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2012-03-13T22:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/asx-chairman-gonski-to-step-down-to-manage-australia-future-fund.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX)  Chairman David Gonski will
step down from his role at Australia’s main stock market
operator after being appointed to oversee almost A$90 billion
($95 billion) in the nation’s sovereign-wealth funds.  Gonski, 58, will run the  Australian Future Fund  as well as
the country’s nation-building funds that invest in
infrastructure, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in a statement
yesterday. Steven Harker, chief executive officer of  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s  Australian (AS51)  unit, was named to the board.  Gonksi replaces  David Murray , former chief executive of
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, who was given a 12-month
extension last year to lead the fund, which pays pension costs
for retiring politicians, judges and other public servants. The
“extraordinary delay” in naming Gonski, who will step down
from his ASX role in June, raised questions about the
government’s management ability, the Australian newspaper said
in an editorial today.  The government’s lengthy decision-making process to select
his replacement had been disruptive to the board, Murray said in
an Australian Financial Review article yesterday. Outgoing
 Future Fund  board member Brian Watson said the government had
“misled” Australians after Gonski was initially appointed as
an adviser to help select a new chairman, according to the
Australian yesterday.  Gonski is a graduate in law from the University of New
South Wales, where he’s now Chancellor. As well as being
chairman of ASX, which was blocked from merging with Singapore
Exchange Ltd. last year, he also chairs  Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd. (CCL) ,
the nation’s biggest soft-drink maker, and is a director for
Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Westfield Group. Born in South
Africa, he was appointed as a Companion of the Order of
Australia in 2007.  Sovereign Wealth  Yesterday’s appointments “will position the board well for
the opportunities and challenges ahead,” Swan said in his
emailed statement.  The fund was established in 2006 as a statutory authority
by the administration of then Prime Minister  John Howard . It has
its own board, which includes former Treasurer  Peter Costello ,
and Stephen Fitzgerald, who last month retired as chairman of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Australia and New Zealand unit.
Oversight is provided by the treasurer and finance minister,
according to its website.  The fund is the world’s 13th-largest sovereign-wealth fund
by assets under management, ranked behind the Qatar Investment
Authority, according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute,
which analyzes such institutions. The Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority is the world’s largest with $627 billion.  Alternative Investments  Some 10.8 percent of the fund was invested in  Australian (AS51) 
shares as of Dec. 31, with another 15.7 percent in global
developed markets. So-called alternative investments including
hedge funds accounted for 19.8 percent of the total, or A$14.5
billion. The balance of its holdings was in private equity,
property, infrastructure, debt and cash.  The Future Fund states its purpose is to “strengthen the
Australian government’s long-term financial position by making
provision for unfunded” pension liabilities. Laws prevent money
from being withdrawn from the fund either until 2020 or once the
pension liability is fully offset, according to its website.  The fund targets an average return of at least the rate of
the  consumer price index  plus 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent per
annum as its long-term benchmark with an “acceptable, but not
excessive, level of risk.”  Last year, the fund excluded 10 companies involved in
making munitions from its investments, including selling two of
its three biggest defense holdings in  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and
General Dynamics Corp., according to a portfolio holdings
obtained by Bloomberg News through an Australian Freedom of
Information Act request.  Tobacco Investments  The fund has faced calls from the Australian Greens, who
helped Prime Minister Julia Gillard win power in 2010, for its
investment rules to be revised after a separate Freedom of
Information request filed by Bloomberg found it had A$147.7
million of tobacco investments, including shares in  British
American Tobacco Plc. (BATS)  Australia has some of the toughest anti-
smoking laws in the world.  Gonski’s term as a director for Singapore Airlines ends in
July, Swan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  