-- AU Optronics, Two Executives Convicted of Panel Price Fixing
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-03-14T02:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/au-optronics-two-executives-found-guilty-of-price-fixing-1-.html
AU Optronics Corp. (2409) , Taiwan’s
second-largest maker of display panels for computers and
televisions, its vice chairman and a senior vice president were
 convicted  of colluding with rivals to fix prices.  A federal jury in  San Francisco  found two other company
officials not guilty yesterday and couldn’t reach a unanimous
decision on a fifth executive charged in a U.S. investigation of
price-fixing among makers of electronic components used in
televisions, laptop computers and mobile phones. The company
faces a fine of as much as $1 billion, the  Justice Department 
said yesterday.  Executives of Hsinchu, Taiwan-based AUO secretly met with
counterparts at other panel makers in hotel rooms, karaoke bars
and tea rooms around Taiwan at so-called crystal meetings from
2001 to 2006 to set prices as an oversupply was pushing prices
down 40 percent, federal prosecutors told jurors during the
eight-week trial.  AUO is the only LCD maker charged with price-fixing by the
U.S. to take its case to trial. Since 2008, rivals including  LG
Display Co. (034220) ,  Chunghwa Picture Tubes (2475) ,  Chi Mei Optoelectronics
Corp. (3009)  and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  agreed to plead guilty and pay more than
$890 million in fines. Seventeen executives have been charged
and 10 have pleaded guilty and have been sentenced to prison,
the Justice Department said in a statement yesterday.  Company Will Appeal  AUO said it will appeal the verdict and a fine that it
expects to be issued within the next few months. The evidence
presented by prosecutors at trial was “distorted and
incomplete,” it said in a statement.  “The company presented undisputed evidence that it
consistently priced below the so-called crystal prices from 2001
to 2006, which the company believes to be solid evidence that it
did not participate in any price fixing agreement,” according
to the statement.  The convicted executives face fines as high as $1 million
and as long as 10 years in prison. Relatives of the executives,
who are all  Taiwan  residents, wept in the courtroom after the
verdicts were read.  AUO shares dropped as much as 2.5 percent in Taipei trading
today, the biggest intraday decline since March 2. The stock was
down 1.3 percent at NT$15.65 as of 10:29 a.m. local time.  U.S. Statute  “The magnitude of the possible fine, $1 billion, may shock
a lot of people. AUO has only provisioned for about one third of
that,” said Jamie Yeh, who rates the stock underweight at
Barclays Bank Plc in Taipei. “The fact that they lost the case
was expected” and may account for the share’s decline being
less than the daily limit.  “At every step, our lawyers and accountants have discussed
the appropriate provisions,” AUO Chief Financial Officer Andy
Yang said today. He declined to say how much has already been
provisioned or whether that figure will increase after
yesterday’s verdict.  “This case is just beginning,” company attorney Dennis
Riordan said in an interview after the verdict. “The most
important question it raises, which the jury didn’t get, is does
the Sherman Act apply to conduct that takes place on foreign
soil?”  Whether the act, a U.S. statute outlawing conduct that
stymies competition, can be used against companies and people
for actions outside the country has never been decided by a U.S.
court and will be the focus of AUO’s appeal, Riordan said.  $500 Million Gain  The defendants will first seek a new trial and acquittal. A
sentencing date will be set after U.S. District Judge Susan Illston, who presided over the trial, rules on those questions,
Riordan said.  H.B. Chen, former president and now vice chairman of AUO,
was found guilty along with Hui Hsiung, who was executive vice
president during the alleged conspiracy. The jury also said the
amount of gain from all companies participating in the price-
fixing conspiracy was more than $500 million.  L.J. Chen, a former director of the company’s desktop
display group who is now president of solar business operations,
and Hubert Lee, a senior manager for the group, were found not
guilty. Illston declared a mistrial on the fifth company
executive,  Steven Leung , who was also a senior manager of the
group. Riordan said all five executives still work for the
company.  ‘Less Culpability’  “The jury finding $500 million in ill-gotten gains by
members of the cartel demonstrates the harmful effect of this
price-fixing conspiracy on American businesses and consumers,”
Acting Assistant Attorney General Sharis Pozen said in a
statement yesterday.  Some jurors argued there wasn’t enough evidence to show
that Leung willingly participated in the conspiracy and it
appeared he was being directed by his managers, said one juror,
a former  AT&T Inc. (T)  employee who wouldn’t give her name. The jury
voted 8-4 to convict Leung, the juror said in an interview.  L.J. Chen and Lee had “less culpability” than their
superiors, she said. The guilty verdicts for the company were
based in part on evidence of what AU Optronics did with the
information it got from meeting with competitors, the juror
said.  Average Overcharges  The monthly crystal meetings corrupted competition and
directly affected purchasers such as  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , prosecutors told the jury during the trial.  Average overcharges during the conspiracy amounted to about
$53 a panel,  Michael Scott , a Justice Department attorney, told
the jury.  “They stole money from consumers and caused serious
harm,” Scott said in closing arguments on Feb. 28.  Government witnesses included Chunghwa and Chi Mei
executives who had pleaded guilty and received prison sentences
in the U.S. They testified that AUO executives attended the
meetings, Scott said.  Lawyers for the company said it never agreed to fix prices
and attended the meetings to gauge market conditions and monitor
competitors, neither of which is illegal.  Product prices plunged during the alleged conspiracy, with
15-inch panel prices falling to $125 from $200 and 19-inch panel
prices dropping to $195 from $405, said  John Cline , a company
attorney.  ‘Bought and Sold’  “That doesn’t sound to me like stealing,” Cline said
during closing arguments. “If they agreed to fix prices, why
would prices not go up?”  Government witnesses were “bought and sold” with lenient
sentences in exchange for their cooperation and testimony, said
Christopher Nedeau, another lawyer for the company. The
witnesses couldn’t remember details about what was said at the
meetings or who said what, Nedeau told jurors.  The witnesses also testified that participants in the
meetings lied about pricing and tried to bluff their
competitors, he said.  “Crystal meetings were an easy way to keep an eye on
competition,” Nedeau said.  AUO also faces civil lawsuits in federal court in San
Francisco by purchasers of LCD panels.  Chimei Innolux Corp. (3481)  is Taiwan’s largest maker of liquid
crystal displays.  The case is U.S. v. Lin, 3:09-cr-00110, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  