-- Auditor Uncovers Failures in Bank Foreclosure Practices
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-03-13T22:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/auditor-finds-widespread-failures-in-bank-foreclosure-practices.html
An audit of foreclosure practices
at the Federal Housing Administration’s five largest mortgage
servicers uncovered widespread failures to ensure the banks had
proper legal documents.  According to reports released today by  the inspector
general  of the Department of Housing and Urban Development,
banks including  Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
violated the federal False Claims Act when they improperly
foreclosed on homes insured by the FHA.  The audits, spurred by revelations in 2010 that mortgage
servicers were seizing homes using improper paperwork, were
forwarded to the  Department of Justice  last year. They formed
part of the basis for a $25 billion settlement with five banks
filed in U.S. court in Washington yesterday.  “I believe the reports we just released will leave the
reader asking one question: How could so many people have
participated in this conduct?” the inspector general, David
Montoya, said in a statement accompanying the reports. “The
answer: simple greed.’”  Other banks included in the review were  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Ally Financial  regrets the deficiencies in the foreclosure
process, said  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for the lender. Still,
she said, “there was no evidence of someone being foreclosed on
without being in significant default of their loan.”  Efforts to Improve  Mark Rodgers , spokesman for Citigroup, said the bank had
already improved its procedures and “is making every effort to
ensure that no foreclosure goes forward based on an inaccurate
or defective affidavit.”  Spokesmen for Bank of America and Wells Fargo noted that
the audit focused on activities that took place several years
ago. Wells Fargo has made “significant strides” in improving
its procedures, said Vickee J. Adams, a spokeswoman for the
bank.  “We do all we can to modify loans when possible and to
ensure foreclosures are fair when they are unavoidable,” said
Bank of America spokesman Richard G. Simon.  Patrick Linehan, a spokesman for JP Morgan, said the bank
had no comment.  Servicers failed to ensure that their employees and
contractors verified the content of affidavits before signing
them as they churned through thousands of foreclosures, the
review found. The banks also eliminated quality control
departments.  The inspector general will issue recommendations to correct
the problems once the settlement agreements are approved by the
court, the reports said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  