-- Aussie, Kiwi Hold Gains Versus Yen as Commodities, Stock Rise
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-03-14T05:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/aussie-kiwi-hold-gains-versus-yen-as-commodities-stock-rise.html
Australia’s dollar traded 0.3
percent from a 10-month high against the yen as gains in
commodities prices boosted earnings prospects for the nation’s
export industries.  New Zealand ’s dollar traded 0.1 percent from a seven-month
peak against Japan’s currency as Asian stocks extended a global
rally, supporting riskier assets. Both South Pacific currencies
fell against their U.S. counterpart after the  Federal Reserve 
raised its assessment of the American economy, reducing
prospects for monetary stimulus that would debase the greenback.  “You are seeing a little bit of a rebound in commodities
prices and that’s one of the key reasons why Aussie will be
stronger against the yen,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist
in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest
interdealer broker. “If global data flow continues to be on the
positive side and commodities prices continue to rise, we might
see a rate hike sooner rather than later in New Zealand, and
that discussion alone will support the kiwi against yen.”  Australia’s dollar rose 0.2 percent to 87.71 yen as of 4:02
p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it gained 1.2 percent. It
reached 88.01 yen on March 2, the most since May 11. The Aussie
slid 0.1 percent to $1.0544.  New Zealand’s currency bought 68.26 yen from 68.28
yesterday, when it advanced 1.5 percent. The so-called kiwi
reached 68.35 on Feb. 27, the most since Aug. 1. It lost 0.3
percent to 82.06 U.S. cents.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks rose 1.1 percent
after the MSCI World Index gained 1.5 percent yesterday. The
 Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials rose 0.7
percent yesterday.  Rate Prospects  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard kept the
key cash rate at a record low 2.5 percent on March 8, in line
with expectations of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  A  Credit Suisse Group AG index  based on swaps indicates the
RBNZ will raise  interest rates  by 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage point, over the next 12 months, compared to 6 basis
points of reduction indicated on Feb. 3.  Swaps (CS1YRBA)  traders expect 53
basis points of cuts by the Reserve Bank of Australia over the
same period.  Demand for the Aussie was limited after a  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey showed that Australian
consumer confidence fell the most in three months.  The  sentiment index  for March dropped to 96.1, the lowest
level since December, the poll taken March 5-9 of 1,200
consumers showed today in Sydney.  ‘Increasingly Vulnerable’  The Australian dollar “looks increasingly vulnerable to
further short-term slippage,”  Mitul Kotecha , head of global
currency strategy in  Hong Kong  at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in
a research note today. “A spate of weaker data over recent
weeks has helped to undermine the currency.”  A narrowing in the yield advantage of Australian debt over
U.S. Treasuries may explain some of the recent weakness in the
Aussie dollar, according to Kotecha.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year Australian
 government bonds  over similar-maturity Treasuries was at 191
basis points, after reaching 180 yesterday, the narrowest gap
since Feb. 3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Federal Open Market Committee, which met yesterday in
 Washington , kept the U.S. benchmark interest rate target
unchanged at zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since
December 2008. “The unemployment rate has declined notably in
recent months, but remains elevated,” the central bank said in
a statement.  “You’re seeing better U.S. data relative to weak data
elsewhere,” said Callum Henderson, global head of foreign-
exchange research in  Singapore  at Standard Chartered Plc.
“That’s limiting the upsides in Aussie and kiwi and weighing on
them to some extent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  