-- Australian Consumer Confidence Slumps 5%, Most in Three Months
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-13T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/australian-consumer-confidence-slumps-5-most-in-three-months.html
Australian  consumer confidence  fell
the most in three months after the nation’s four biggest lenders
raised mortgage rates even as the central bank left the
benchmark borrowing cost unchanged, a private survey showed.  The sentiment index for March dropped 5 percent to 96.1,
the lowest level since December,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and
Melbourne Institute survey taken March 5-9 of 1,200 consumers
showed today in Sydney.  “Sensitivity to  interest rates  has clearly been one factor
responsible for this weak print,” Bill Evans, Westpac’s chief
economist, said in a statement. In addition, “our supplementary
questions indicate that respondents are particularly concerned
about economic conditions and employment,” he said.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered
the overnight cash rate target by a quarter percentage point on
Nov. 1 and Dec. 6, before keeping the rate unchanged for the
past two meetings at 4.25 percent. House prices slumped by a
record last year and unemployment in Australia rose in February
to 5.2 percent.  “With the two previous rate cuts in November and December
being passed on in full by the banks, it is reasonable to assume
that many borrowers expected a further cut in the mortgage
rate,” Evans said, referring to Stevens’s unexpected pause in
February. “Instead, mortgage rates were actually increased in
the following week with banks raising mortgage rates by an
average of 0.10 percent. It is likely that this reversal has
impacted confidence.”  Bank Increases  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  increased the interest on a
variable-rate home loan by 10 basis points to 7.41 percent,
followed by  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , which added 9 basis
points to 7.31 percent. Westpac boosted the cost by 10 basis
points to 7.46 percent on Feb. 10, after  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  added 6 basis points to 7.36 percent.  Companies outside Australia’s booming mining industry are
struggling, and the so-called two-speed nature of the nation’s
economy was reflected in the loss of 15,400 jobs in February and
the first increase in the jobless rate since August.  The local dollar has risen about 3 percent this year and
reached a six-month high of $1.0845 last month after the RBA
unexpectedly paused at its Feb. 7 meeting. The currency bought
$1.0548 at 10:15 a.m. in Sydney today.  Driving Australia’s economy is a A$456 billion ($480
billion) pipeline of investment in resource projects by
companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd.. (BHP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  