-- Australia’s Weaker Housing, Business Confidence May Slow Hiring: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-13T03:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/australian-home-loans-fall-double-economists-forecast-first-in-10-months.html
Australian  home-loan approvals 
dropped for the first time in 10 months and business confidence
sank to a five-month low, signs that job growth may struggle to
rebound after stalling last year.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments fell 1.2 percent in January, a government report
showed in Sydney today, twice the 0.6 percent drop forecast by
economists. A private  survey  of 500 companies taken Feb. 20-24
and released earlier today showed business confidence fell last
month to the lowest level since September.  The data added to a string of weaker-than-forecast economic
figures in  Australia , where the benchmark interest rate of 4.25
percent is the highest among major developed economies. Reserve
Bank Governor Glenn Stevens kept borrowing costs unchanged last
week as policy makers rely on a A$456 billion ($481 billion)
pipeline of resource investment to spur growth and employment.  “There’s little to suggest growth is set to tick up in the
near term,” said  Michael Turner , an economist in Sydney for
Royal Bank of Canada who predicts two more rate cuts this year.
“That suggests a bit of weakness in demand will feed into the
labor market and should give the RBA enough comfort to ease
further.”  The Australian dollar was little changed near a seven-week
low, buying $1.0548 at 1:58 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0519 before
the data were released. The so-called Aussie late yesterday in
 New York  touched $1.0474, the weakest level since Jan. 25.  Export Boom  Manufacturing and tourism in Australia are straining under
a currency that has soared 68 percent in the past three years,
driven up by higher rates and a mining boom predicted to last
decades as urbanization accelerates in China and  India .  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
will probably leave the policy rate and asset fund unchanged
when a two-day meeting ends today, according to 12 of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Asian stocks climbed, erasing yesterday’s losses, and the
yen fell against 15 of its 16 major peers before data forecast
to show improving U.S. retail sales and policy meetings by the
Federal Reserve and Bank of  Japan .  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  rallied 1.1 percent as of 11:58
a.m. in  Tokyo , climbing for the third time in four days. Futures
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent. The yen
weakened 0.2 percent to 108.41 per euro and oil traded near the
lowest level in a week in New York.  Philippine Shipments  Philippine exports unexpectedly rose in January, snapping
eight months of declines, a National Statistics Office report
showed in  Manila  today.  In  Europe  later today, a report may show  France ’s inflation
rate was probably unchanged in February, with consumer prices
rising 2.6 percent, economists predicted. Inflation in  Spain  was
also likely unchanged in February, with consumer prices rising
1.9 percent.  European leaders have declared a turning point in the
sovereign debt turmoil that is now in its third year after
putting up 386 billion euros ($509 billion) of aid.  In the U.S., retail sales probably increased 1.1 percent in
February, the most in five months, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the
Commerce Department releases figures today. The  Federal Reserve 
also meets to decide on monetary policy.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Jan. 25, after the FOMC’s
last meeting, that policy makers were considering additional
asset purchases to boost growth. The Fed has pledged to keep its
benchmark rate at almost zero through at least late 2014 and has
previously purchased $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds
of so-called quantitative easing.  Housing Slump  Today’s Australian housing report showed the total value of
loans fell 2.3 percent to A$20.7 billion in January. The value
of lending to owner-occupiers gained 0.1 percent and value of
loans to investors who plan to rent or resell homes dropped 7.1
percent, the report showed.  Home loans weakened before Australia’s four biggest banks
in February raised their standard variable mortgage rates
independently from the RBA, drawing criticism from the
government. The central bank has said that competition for
deposits, recent covered bond sales, and the cost of swapping
funds raised offshore into Australian dollars had added to the
price lenders paid to raise money.  “Immediate prospects for housing finance are clouded by
the decision of commercial banks to lift variable rates,”
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  economists led by  Bill Evans  said in a
research report after the data. Other issues restraining housing
include “soft labor market conditions, a lack of  consumer
confidence , stretched housing affordability and global
uncertainties,” they said.  Payroll Cuts  First-home buyers accounted for 20.3 percent of dwellings
that were financed in January, down from 20.9 percent in
December and higher than 16.2 percent a year earlier, the report
showed today.  Australian employers unexpectedly cut payrolls in February
and unemployment rose for the first time since August, a
government report showed last week.  Gross domestic product in the final three months of 2011
grew 0.4 percent from the third quarter, half the expansion
economists predicted, a government report showed March 7.
Household consumption, which accounts for 56 percent of GDP,
advanced at the slowest pace since the first quarter of 2010.  The central bank said in a quarterly statement on Feb. 10
that retail spending remains subdued in Australia and property
was weak. Housing transactions are “around the lowest they have
been over the past two decades,” it said.  Confidence Deteriorates  Australian business confidence deteriorated in most
industries last month “except mining, where it rose solidly,”
 Alan Oster , chief economist  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  that
publishes the sentiment survey, said in a statement.
“Uncertainty emanating from the euro zone and financial
markets, the persistent strength in the Australian dollar and
the decision by the RBA to keep rates on hold in February” may
have contributed to the weakness, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  