-- Australian Leagues Challenge Singtel iPad Rebroadcasts
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-14T03:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/australian-football-rugby-leagues-challenge-rebroadcasts.html
The  Australian Football League , the
most popular spectator sport in the country, and the  National
Rugby League  are waging a court battle to protect broadcasting
rights valued at more than a billion dollars.  The two sports organizations asked a federal appeals court
in Sydney today to overturn a judge’s ruling that cleared the
way for  Singtel Optus Ltd. (CWO)  to show sporting events over mobile
devices with only a slight delay and without having to pay for
broadcast rights. Optus calls the service “TV Now.”  “This business has been developed to disrupt the
commercial arrangements” the NRL and AFL have with their
exclusive broadcast partners, Noel Hutley, the NRL’s lawyer,
told a three-judge appeal panel.  The AFL signed a five-year, A$1.25 billion ($1.3 billion)
agreement last year with  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM) ’s Seven Network,
Foxtel,  Australia ’s biggest pay television operator, and Telstra
Corp. for exclusive broadcast rights to its games. The NRL is in
talks with broadcasters on a new deal that would run from 2013
to 2017. Both agreements are at risk of dilution, as are those
for this year’s London Olympic Games, if the rebroadcasts are
allowed and other operators adopt similar technologies.  “They are not paying for it. They are lifting it,” Andrew Demetriou, chief executive of the AFL, said in a telephone
interview last week. “It is akin to stealing and all it will do
is that if sports can’t rely on that revenue, they will slug the
consumers.”  Video Files  TV Now, which Optus  started  in July last year, allows the
phone company’s customers in Australia’s mainland state capitals
of Sydney,  Melbourne , Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth to record
free-to-air television programs, including AFL and NRL games,
and play them back on computers, Apple Inc. iPads, and most 3G
mobile devices.  Optus, the Australian unit of  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
phone company  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) , picks up free-
to-air TV digital transmissions of 15 signals, including the
free-to-air networks of Channel 7, Channel 9 and Channel 10.
Those broadcasts are converted into four types of video files,
such as QuickTime for playback on Apple devices, which are
stored on the company’s servers, effectively cloud storage.  “Optus stands by its TV Now product and we intend to
continue leading the market with converged, innovative and
differentiated digital services,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement.  Recording Options  Optus customers can record selected programming, which is
streamed to their devices. The company offers 45 minutes of
recording time for free and as much as 20 hours for A$9.99 a
month. The recorded shows can be viewed within two minutes of
their airing on Apple devices.  AFL, NRL and Telstra, Australia’s biggest phone company,
sought to stop Optus, saying the service infringed their
copyrights because it made the recordings and passed them on to
its customers.  Federal Court Judge Steven Rares last month  rejected  the
argument, ruling the user of the phone, computer or tablet made
the recording, much as people used to do with video cassette
recorders or with digital video recorders.  The users made the recordings “for their private and
domestic use” to watch at a more convenient time “even if they
watched these ‘near live’ within minutes of the start of the
broadcast,” Rares wrote in his Feb. 1 ruling.  Place Not Time  The Optus service gives customers a more convenient place
to watch the broadcasts, rather than a more convenient time, as
the law requires, Hutley said today.  “Watching an NRL game while sailing on Sydney Harbor is
more convenient” than going home later and watching a recording
from a DVR, Hutley said.  Rares’s decision, the first of its kind, has prompted the
AFL, NRL, other sports organizations and broadcasters to press
the federal government to change copyright laws and prohibit the
practice.  “This development is clearly an example of the technology
overtaking the law,” David Gallop, the National Rugby League’s
chief executive officer, said at a Feb. 10 news conference. “It
couldn’t have come at a worse time to have this sort of
uncertainty,” he said, referring to the negotiations on
broadcast rights that are ongoing.  Confidential Talks  The talks with the government are currently confidential
and Demetriou said he couldn’t discuss the details of the
changes the sports groups are seeking. He said the government
and the opposition have reacted positively to the groups’
concerns.  “They understand the urgency,” he said. “Our season is
about to start.”  The  AFL season  kicks off March 24 with Sydney taking on
Greater Western Sydney. It’s scheduled to conclude Sept. 29 with
the AFL grand final, Australia’s Super Bowl.  Last year’s AFL grand final had a TV  audience  of 2.6
million people in the nation’s mainland capital cities while the
deciding  NRL game  attracted 2.2 million, according to market
researcher Oztam Pty. which compiles Australian TV ratings.  Broadcast rights account for 60 percent of the league’s
revenue, Demetriou said. The organization uses the money to
reinvest tens of millions dollars into the community, including
building training fields and running children’s and indigenous
programs, he said.  London Olympics  According to the  Australian Bureau of Statistics ,
Australian Rules Football was the most popular sport attended by
people aged 15 years or older in the nation in 2010, with 16
percent, or 2.8 million people, saying they went to a match.  Rares’ ruling may have implications for the broadcasts of
this year’s London Olympic Games.  Nine Entertainment Co.’s Nine Network and Foxtel paid a
record A$126 million for the rights to broadcast the London
Olympics and the 2010  Winter Games  from  Vancouver .  According to the ruling, telecommunications providers could
give access to any free-to-air broadcast to their customers.  The  International Olympic Committee  didn’t respond to an e-
mailed request for comment.  Attorney General  Nicola Roxon  said on Feb. 8 that she asked
the Australian Law Reform Commission to review current copyright
laws. Terms of the review are still being drafted.  Copyright Exemptions  Australian law provides exemptions from copyright
protection when people record a television show at home for
personal use, or transfer a music file from a computer to a
digital music player such as an iPod or an iPhone.  Optus based a commercial offering on this exemption, Fiona
Phillips, executive director of the  Australian Copyright Council ,
said in a phone interview.  “That’s a little bit of a distortion of the original
public policy exemption,” she said.  The case is National Rugby League Investments Ltd. v.
SingTel Optus Ltd. NSD201/2012 Federal Court of Australia, Full
Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  