-- Bain Says Holdings Created Hundreds of Thousands of Jobs
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-03-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/bain-says-its-companies-created-hundreds-of-thousands-of-jobs-.html
Bain Capital  LLC, the private
equity firm co-founded by Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , defended its business model in a letter to clients amid
political attacks against the industry.  Companies backed by Bain over the past 28 years have
increased revenue by more than $105 billion, creating “hundreds
of thousands of jobs” in the process, the Boston-based firm
said yesterday in the letter, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News. Fewer than 5 percent of those companies have
filed for bankruptcy while under Bain’s control, the firm said.  “This sharply politicized issue attracts enormous
attention and lends itself to misleading anecdotes and cherry-
picking of the record, but there should be no doubt that $105
billion of revenue growth is an economic engine with widespread
benefits,” the firm said.  Opponents of Romney have portrayed Bain and other buyout
managers as corporate looters who enrich themselves at the
expense of ordinary workers. The attacks are hurting the
industry at a time when many firms are seeking to raise new
funds. A Bloomberg National Poll published yesterday shows 52
percent of Americans think the private equity industry is
“mostly bad” for the  U.S. economy .  In the same poll, 64 percent of Republican respondents said
they think Romney’s background in the industry makes him better
prepared to create jobs than his rivals.  ‘No Public Position’  “While we have a great deal of respect across our
partnership for all those who pursue public service, including
President Obama and Governor Romney, we are not a political
organization and take no public position on any candidate,”
Bain said.  Alex Stanton, a spokesman for Bain Capital, declined to
comment on the letter.  The debate over private equity practices may affect large
managers as they compete for a shrinking pool of dollars and
some investors, such as public pension funds, express concern
about the buyout industry’s image. Bain late last year started
gauging investor interest for a new buyout fund, according to a
person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named
because the information wasn’t public.  Bain’s private equity funds generated $4.1 billion in
“realizations” last year, with more than half of the proceeds
coming from stock sales, the firm said in the letter. Bain
committed $3.6 billion to nine new investments.  “We are optimistic about liquidity and investment
prospects in 2012, particularly given the positive backdrop of
the  capital markets  during the first two months of this year,”
Bain said in the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  