-- Basci’s Lira Defense Costs Erdogan at Debt Sale: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-03-14T08:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/basci-s-lira-defense-costs-erdogan-at-debt-sale-turkey-credit.html
Turkish  central bank  Governor Erdem Basci’s policy of defending the lira by limiting  money supply  to
banks may sacrifice the government’s success in reducing
borrowing costs.  The Central Bank of the Republic of  Turkey  cut lending
through its one-week repurchase auction by 33 percent to 4
billion liras ($2.2 billion) yesterday after the local currency
tumbled to a six-week low against the dollar, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The yield at a five-year Treasury auction the
same day rose to an average 9.56 percent, the highest for the
maturity since Jan. 23. Turkey’s local two-year bond yields have
tumbled 162 basis points this year, the most among 15 developing
nations tracked by Bloomberg.  “It looks like the central bank was more concerned about
the lira than the Treasury’s auction,”  Emre Balkeser , the head
of trading in Istanbul for Garanti Investment, the brokerage
unit of Turkey’s second biggest bank  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) ,
said in e-mailed comments yesterday.  Basci, 45, is seeking to offset pressure on the lira after
the government said March 12 that the  current-account deficit 
unexpectedly stayed at $6 billion in January compared with a
year ago as global  oil prices  rose more than 7 percent this
year. Turkey’s shortfall is equivalent to 10.3 percent of gross
domestic product, the highest among 60 major economies tracked
by the  International Monetary Fund . The lira plunged 18 percent
last year on speculation record-low interest rates were fueling
purchases of imports.  Lira Drops  The lira has lost 2.6 percent against the dollar so far
this month, the third biggest decline among 25  emerging markets 
tracked by Bloomberg, and paring this year’s gain to 5.4
percent. The currency fell to as low as 1.8003 on March 12 and
weakened 0.2 percent to 1.7944 per dollar today.  “The bank defends 1.80 per dollar in good times and 1.90
in bad times,” said Balkeser.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkey’s two-year
lira bonds rather than equivalent South African debt is up from
a five-week low, while the spread has widened from the narrowest
in two months relative to  Brazil  in the past month.  Higher borrowing costs threaten efforts by Turkish Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to reduce the government’s debt to
37 percent of GDP this year from 40 percent.  Yields on Turkish two-year bonds have increased 20 basis
points this week, even after a worse-than-forecast slump in
Turkish industrial output last week eased concern about the pace
of the economic expansion and inflation. The Treasury’s
borrowing in March at 9.58 billion liras has fallen short of its
target of 10 billion liras.  Lower Costs  Borrowing costs are still lower overall this year, with
rates on dollar debt due in 2030 dropping 51 basis points, or
0.51 percentage point, to 5.5 percent in 2012, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The premium over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis
points to 301 yesterday, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global index.  The cost to insure Turkish bonds against non-payment using
credit-default swaps dropped four basis points to 218, the
lowest since August, according to data from CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles quotes by dealers in the
privately-negotiated market.  “This is telling me that currency is more of a worry than
Turkish creditworthiness,” Vadim Sobolevski, the head of fixed-
income research at Otkritie Capital in  London , said in e-mailed
comments.  Treasury Auctions  The central bank supported previous Treasury auctions by
stepping up funding to banks in the hours beforehand. The bank
provided as much in one-week repo auctions as lenders repaid on
March 9 and 12, before cutting funds yesterday to 4 billion
liras from 6 billion liras. The  overnight repo rate  on the
interbank market jumped to 9.44 percent yesterday from 6.6
percent on Feb. 13.  The government is targeting a reduction in the current-
account deficit to 8 percent of GDP this year and 7.5 percent in
2013, according to forecasts from the government’s medium-term
economic plan announced in October.  “Current account worries will probably magnify the central
bank concerns with the currency,” said  Luis Costa , an emerging-
market strategist at Citigroup Global Markets Ltd in London.  Basci lowered the upper limit for  interest rates  charged to
banks to 11.5 percent from 12.5 percent on Feb. 21. The central
bank’s next Monetary Policy Committee meeting is scheduled for
March 27.  “The market sentiment is that there was a premature change
in the monetary policy amid persistently high inflation and wide
current account deficit,”  Murat Toprak , chief currency
strategist for  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa  at HSBC
Holdings Plc in London, said in e-mailed comments. “The next
Monetary Policy Committee meeting will be crucial. If the
central bank fails to sound hawkish, it would be lira-
negative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  