-- Bayern Advances in Champions League After Record Rout; Inter Out
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-14T00:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/bayern-munich-marseille-advance-to-champions-league-quarters.html
Mario Gomez  scored four times to
lead  Bayern Munich  into the Champions League quarterfinals,
while Marseille ousted  Inter Milan  with a stoppage-time goal.  Gomez got his fifth hat trick of the season as Bayern
routed Basel 7-0 to complete a 7-1 victory over two games. Arjen Robben scored twice and Thomas Muller once at Munich’s  Allianz
Arena  last night as the four-time champion recorded the biggest
knockout-stage win in European soccer’s elite club competition.  “Seven goals in the Champions League is incredible,”
Robben said in comments on UEFA’s website. “Maybe this will
make other teams take notice of us.”  Marseille advanced on away goals after its 2-1 loss in
 Italy  left it tied 2-2 with Inter, the 2010 champion. A goal
from Brazilian striker Brandao four minutes after coming on as a
substitute sent Marseille to the final eight for the first time
since winning the competition in 1993.  “When I put him one, he told me he would score,”
Marseille coach Didier Deschamps told UEFA’s website. “It’s
fabulous.”  Bayern dominated Basel with 59 percent of possession and
had a 24-6 shot advantage, putting 16 on target.  Gomez now has 10  Champions League  goals this season, two
behind Lionel Messi of Barcelona, who scored five times in a 7-1
rout of Bayern Leverkusen last week that sent the defending
champion through.  “All the goals were from brilliant assists,” Gomez said.
“It always looks easy when I put the ball into the net, but
there has to be someone in the center to do that.”  Bayern’s Rout  Bayern took the lead in the 11th minute as Toni Kroos’s
deflected shot fell to Robben, who fired the ball into the
bottom corner. Robben set up the second goal three minutes
before halftime with a cross to the near post which Muller
volleyed past Yann Sommer.  Gomez made it 3-0 just before the break and added three
more goals in 17 second-half minutes to complete his second
straight hat trick after scoring three times in a 7-1 Bundesliga
rout of Hoffenheim over the weekend. Robben then added his
second goal in the 81st minute.  “Maybe we can learn more from this than the wins we’ve
enjoyed so far in the competition,” Basel manager Heiko Vogel,
a former Bayern youth coach, told  UEFA ’s website. “Of course
you have to talk about the quality Bayern have, but we need to
learn our lessons.”  Inter Goes Out  Facing a 1-0 deficit after giving up a stoppage-time goal
in the opening game in  France , Inter wasted several chances
before  Diego Milito  scored in the 75th minute following a
scramble in front of goal.  With the teams headed to extra time, Marseille struck in
the second of three added minutes. Goalkeeper Steve Mandanda’s
long punt hit Brandao, who was between two defenders, in the
back and the striker turned to fire a shot past Julio Cesar.  “I didn’t see the ball when it bounced off my back,”
Brandao said. “I just saw it in my path and stroked it past the
goalkeeper.”  Mandanda took down Giampaolo Pazzini in the area moments
later and was sent off after receiving his second yellow card.
Pazzini put his penalty past reserve keeper Gennaro Bracigliano
before the final whistle was blown.  “In 180 minutes they managed very few shots on target, but
only teams able to score win football matches,” Inter coach
Claudio Ranieri said. “We must accept the result.”  Bayern and Marseille join  Barcelona , seven-time winner AC
Milan, Benfica and APEOL Nicosia in the quarterfinal draw in two
days. The remaining two spots will be determined tonight as
Napoli takes a 3-1 lead to Chelsea and record nine-time champion
Real  Madrid  and  CSKA Moscow  meet in  Spain  tied 1-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  