-- Bayer, Apple, News Corp., Allergan: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-13T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/bayer-apple-wipo-news-corp-allergan-intellectual-property.html
India ’s government for the first
time will allow a generic-drug maker to produce and sell cheaper
copies of a patented cancer medicine, a decision that pressures
brand-name manufacturers to lower prices.  Natco Pharma Ltd. (NTCPH)  received a so-called compulsory license
to make  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Nexavar, which goes by the generic name
sorafenib, and will have to sell it at a 97 percent discount to
Bayer’s existing product, India’s Controller General of Patents
Designs and Trademarks said yesterday in a statement on its
website.  The ruling marks the first time India, the world’s second-
most populous nation, has permitted a generic-drug maker to
manufacture copies of a medicine that is protected by patents in
the country. More patients could potentially gain access to
cheaper versions of other patented treatments, such as new HIV
drugs, in India, international aid organization  Medecins Sans
Frontieres  said in a  statement .  Under a World Trade Organization agreement known as Trade-
related aspects of intellectual property rights or TRIPS, member
countries can use these compulsory licenses to ensure access to
affordable medicines, MSF said. Governments can grant compulsory
licenses to allow a company to make a patented product or use a
patented process without the consent of the patent owner.  Bayer (BAYRY)  is “disappointed” with India’s decision to issue a
compulsory license, the company said in an e-mailed statement.
“We will evaluate our options to further defend our
international property rights in India.”  The drug is used for the treatment of advanced stage kidney
and liver cancer. Nexavar, which sells for more than 280,000
rupees ($5,605) a month in India, can extend the life of a
kidney cancer patient by four to five years, the patent office
said.  Under the terms of the license, Natco can charge a maximum
of 8,800 rupees for a monthly dose of 120 tablets. The company
would have to pay 6 percent of its sales revenue to Bayer as
royalty and supply the drug at no cost to at least 600 needy
patients each year, the patent office said.  Cipla Ltd. (CIPLA) , India’s third-biggest drugmaker, also sells a
generic version of the treatment for 28,000 rupees a month and
had sales of about 90 million rupees last year, Hitesh Mahida, a
Mumbai-based analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers, said in an
interview. The drugmaker, which began selling the drug in 2010,
is locked in a patent dispute with Bayer in the Delhi High
Court, he said.  Apple, Motorola Mobility Discussed Patent Settlement, EU Says  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  held talks with Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.
at the end of last year on a potential cross-licensing
settlement to end a dispute over smartphone patents, according
to a European Union document.  Apple and Motorola Mobility had discussions in late 2011 to
license each others’ patents “possibly to the benefit of all
Android” smartphone manufacturers, according to the document on
the EU’s website, referring to Google Inc.’s operating system
for smartphones and tablets. The companies “also discussed the
scope of any potential settlement” after Google completes its
$12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility.  Apple and Motorola Mobility have sued each other in the
U.S. and  Europe  over technology used in smartphones, a market
that researcher IDC said grew 55 percent last year. Apple also
filed an antitrust complaint with EU regulators after it said
Motorola Mobility violated a pledge to license industry-standard
patents on fair terms.  Apple told EU regulators that Motorola Mobility initially
wanted it to license the company’s full patent portfolio in
order to gain access to Motorola Mobility’s standard-essential
patents, said the document which summarized the European
Commission’s antitrust review of Google’s bid for Motorola
Mobility.  Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility in
 San Diego , declined to immediately comment. Alan Hely, a
spokesman for Apple in  London , didn’t immediately respond to a
call and an e-mail seeking comment.  “Apple also argues that its refusal to accede to this
demand led Motorola Mobility to sue Apple in an attempt to
exclude Apple’s products from the market,” according to the EU
document, published March 9 on the EU website.  Motorola Mobility, which has said it’s been in licensing
talks with Apple since 2007, has previously said it licenses its
patents on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms which
it offered to Apple.  Google has said it would seek a royalty fee of no more than
2.25 percent of the net cost of devices using its patents, and
would try to resolve any disputes through negotiation before
asking courts to block use of the Motorola Mobility technology.  Yahoo! Sues Facebook Over Patents Related to Advertising  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  accused  Facebook Inc. (FB)  in a federal court
lawsuit of infringing patents related to Internet advertising
and information sharing.  Yahoo’s attorneys, in a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in  San Jose , seek a court order barring Facebook
from infringing 10 patents, plus awards of triple damages.  Yahoo, owner of the most popular U.S. Internet portal, said
in February that Facebook must license its technology, pointing
out that other Web companies have licensed its intellectual
property. Yahoo is looking for ways to revive growth after
losing ground to Facebook in the display advertising market and
trailing  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in Web searches.  “We must insist that Facebook either enter into a
licensing agreement or we will be compelled to move forward
unilaterally to protect our rights,” Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo said Feb. 27 in an e-mailed statement.  Yahoo lost its No. 1 spot to Facebook last year in the U.S.
market for display advertising, which includes video and
graphically-based marketing messages, according to EMarketer
Inc. In January, Yahoo reported fourth-quarter revenue of $1.17
billion, excluding sales passed on to partner sites. That fell
short of analysts’ estimates of $1.19 billion.  Larry Yu, spokesman for Facebook, didn’t immediately return
a phone message seeking comment.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Trademark Applications Increase 6.5 Percent in 2011, WIPO Says  The number of international trademark applications in 2011
grew 6.5 percent over those filed the previous year, the World
Intellectual Property Organization said in a  statement 
yesterday. WIPO is a United Nations agency responsible for
promoting intellectual property protections worldwide.  China led with the greatest number of applications filed by
one country, followed by  Germany ,  France , the U.S. and
Switzerland. Russia had the largest growth rate in applications,
filing 35.6 percent more applications than the previous year.  The most popular class for registration was packages and
containers for the transportation or handling of goods, followed
by clocks and watches, furnishings, household goods, and means
of transports.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  E-Book Publishers Need to Make Changes to Settle Probe, EU Says  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Harper Collins and four other publishers
probed by European Union need to address regulatory concerns
before they can settle the antitrust case, the EU’s competition
commissioner said.  Joaquin Almunia , the antitrust chief, told reporters
yesterday that a settlement was only possible if the publishers
were “ready to remove” the cause of EU objections regarding
sales restrictions. No talks on a settlement are currently
taking place, he said.  The European Commission last year opened an investigation
into Apple Inc.’s deals with e-book publishers Harper Collins,
 Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Livre,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster,
 Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin and Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck
GmbH’s Macmillan division that may restrict sales.  The U.S. Justice Department is discussing a possible
settlement with some companies involved in its probe of Apple
and publishers over e-books prices, according to a person
familiar with the matter last week.  The investigation is important to regulators “because the
e-books market is growing very fast and we have an interest to
avoid collusive practices,” Almunia said.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Allergan’s Trade Secrets Misappropriated; Judge Bans Xeomin Sale  Trade secrets belonging to  Allergan Inc. (AGN)  were
misappropriated by Merz Pharmaceuticals LLC, a federal judge in
Santa Ana,  California , has ruled.  The trade secrets were related to sales and relationships
with physician customers for Irvine, California-based Allergan’s
Botox and Juvederm products. U.S. District Judge Andrew J.
Guilford said there was “overwhelming circumstantial and direct
evidence” that Merz improperly was in possession of Allergan’s
confidential material. He also said it was clear that Allergan
faces “a substantial threat of impending injury” because Merz
had this information.  In an order issued March 9, he ruled that it was in the
public interest to bar Merz from using and disclosing Allergan’s
trade secrets, and to forbid the sale of Merz’s competing Xeomin
product for 10 months.  Merz was also ordered to use “industry standard forensic
tools” to search for Allergan trade secrets in its physical
offices and in electronic data sources. Merz is required to
report to the court the status of its actions six, 12 and 18
months from Judge Guilford’s March 9 order.  The case is  Allergan Inc. (AGN)  v. Merz Pharmaceuticals LLC,
8:11-cv-00446-AG-E, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 