-- Belly Dancers in Cairo Clubs Flaunt Sensual Undulations
-- B y   M i c h a e l   L u o n g o
-- 2012-03-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/belly-dancers-in-cairo-clubs-flaunt-sensual-undulations-travel.html
Even a revolution is no excuse to
stop dancing in Cairo.  “My family kept calling, telling me not to go down to
 Tahrir Square ,” said native Californian Ruth Allegra Pena.
“But now I consider myself Egyptian, too. This is my home.”  Pena, who uses the stage name Aleya, moved to Cairo in 2008
to pursue the art of belly dancing as a performer and teacher.  There’s more to this sensuous art form than tiny bras,
swaying hips and strategically placed jewels. Involving
intricate movements of the entire body, belly dancing goes back
thousands of years, predating Islam.  Cairo is the honored capital of the ancient art, with
perhaps more practitioners than any other city in the world.  “You are a real artist when you dance here. A lot of
Americans don’t understand belly dancing -- they think it is
stripping,” said Pena. “In  Egypt , they are your biggest fans.”  Kazakhstan-native Zhanna Korolkova, now based in  Las Vegas ,
lived in Cairo in 2011. She explained that the American cabaret
style of belly dancing uses elements from Lebanon, Egypt and
other parts of the  Middle East .  “The Egyptian style of belly dancing is loved by all the
world, she said.” It’s every dancer’s dream to live in Egypt
and study. This is the mother of belly dancing.”  Belly Dance Tour  Pena and I have been friends since college. The last time I
visited her in 2010, we toured some of the dozens of belly-
dancing clubs in Cairo, ranging from decrepit colonial buildings
to Vegas-style show palaces catering to Egypt’s elite, oil-rich
Gulf visitors and Westerners.  I came back again this year to be in Cairo for the first
anniversary of Egypt’s revolution. Our Thursday night out began
at the VIP Club in Giza’s Al Nabila Hotel, where the entrance
fee was 150 Egyptian pounds, or about $25.  Gaudy with red carpeting, crimson and silver curtains and a
stage worthy of a Milan fashion show, the sprawling venue was
virtually empty.  Even so, the heavy-set manager insisted that the vacant
tables awaited very important high flyers and stuck us far away
from the action, such as it was, with one lonely dancer gyrating
in the distance.  Next we hit the Pyramids View Hotel, a third of the price
and a popular local hangout, arriving at 2:30 in the morning.  Screaming Fire Trap  Perched on the hotel’s rooftop, the club was a screaming
fire trap -- filled with smoke, cheap tinsel streamers dangling
from the low ceiling.  Here, we were the only foreigners among gruff, dark-suited
men sitting at shadowy tables against the walls. Others wore
dishdashas, or long tunics, and brought wives in head scarves.  The smiling, raven-haired belly dancer Somiya was one of
the stars here, her costume sapphire blue with rhinestones
sparkling in the dim red spotlights.  Endless voluptuous undulations left her skin coated with a
mix of sweat and glitter.  Somiya welcomed visitors of both sexes to dance together on
the tiny stage. Chubby crooners with slicked-back hair shouted
songs into microphones and loudly intoned the names of regular
customers.  Waiters in tight black pants and vests squeezed by, trays
heaving with 1,000 pound bricks of Egyptian money to be used as
tips to shower on Somiya and the other belly dancers performing
that evening.  Losing Steam  This packed Thursday night, the beginning of the Islamic
weekend, was not typical, according to nightclub manager
Mohammed Yehia Saed, who bounced among the tables wiping sweat
from his shaved head.  “It’s down: Locals can’t come every night like they used
to.” he said. “People are not working as much anymore.”  Tourism is also down, and Muslim groups gained a majority
in January’s parliamentary elections. What this means for belly
dancing in Cairo is unclear.  “Vertigo” is a best-selling Egyptian novel about a belly
dancing club and Cairo’s nightlife, due out in May in the U.S.
Author Ahmed Mourad, 34, was part of former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s media photography team.  We met in a crowded Coffee Bean, a cafe chain popular with
Westernized Cairenes and expats in Zamalek, a Nile-island
neighborhood.  Against Clubbing  Mourad’s reaction to the ancient art is complex. “I like
belly dancing, actually,” he said. “I am against the people
who give care to this nightlife and forget the poor,” throwing
money on stage while people starve in the streets.  After photographing in Tahrir Square on the first
anniversary of the revolution, I joined local journalists and
their friends on El Borsa Street.  Ahmed Qasem, 26, joined our group, wearing an American-
style hoodie. He was a member of the conservative Muslim
Salafist party, but had no problem with my belly-dancing tour.  “The revolution is with the people,” he told me. I asked
him for clarification.  “Let me say it this way. If you want to do anything in
Cairo, you can do it. There isn’t anything to stop you from
doing what you want to do,” he explained. “Not even the
Salafists.”  Mourad agrees: “If anything goes wrong, we can still go to
Tahrir Square.” According to the novelist, Egyptians don’t want
a strict version of Islam, the kind found in the Gulf region.  “Mall, house, car. It’s very sick,” Mourad said of the
way of life there. “If I lived in the Gulf I wouldn’t find
anything to write about. Egyptians have the right to drama in
the streets.”  Despite the tumultuous events taking place in Egypt, Pena
doesn’t worry about belly dancing’s future here. “I am still
contacted about my classes by foreigners moving to Cairo,” she
said.  For tourism information visit:  http://www.egypt.travel .  (Michael Luongo writes on travel for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Michael Luongo at  mtluongo@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 