-- Best Stock Streak Since January Buoyed by Sohu: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-03-13T21:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/best-stock-streak-since-january-buoyed-by-tudou-advance-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in the U.S.
jumped for a fifth day, led by  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , on speculation the
government will take further steps to bolster the economy once
the annual Congress meeting ends.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S. gained 2.1 percent to 106.74 yesterday in
New York, the highest level since Sept. 1. Sohu, which runs
China’s fifth-most visited website, climbed the most since
October after Citron Research named the company as its top pick
among Chinese Internet shares. Energy explorer  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  rose
the most in two weeks to trade at the highest premium to its
Hong Kong stock since March 1.  With the European debt crisis and lackluster U.S. recovery
sapping global demand, the world’s biggest exporter reported on
March 10 the largest trade deficit in at least 22 years for
February, while new loans, industrial output and retail sales
for the month all came in below analysts’ median estimates. The
annual meeting of  China ’s National People’s Congress ends today.  “People are always focused forward and the hope is that
they will either lower  interest rates  or let the currency
fluctuate more,”  Uri Landesman , who helps oversee more than $1
billion of assets as managing general partner at New York-based
hedge fund Platinum Partners LLP, said by phone yesterday. “The
next move in the market will very much depend on whether they
are going to change the monetary policy out of the Congress
meetings.”  The Bloomberg China-US 55 gauge has gained 3.6 percent
since March 5, when Premier  Wen Jiabao  cut this year’s growth
target to 7.5 percent from 8 percent in the previous seven
years. The index’s five-day rising streak is the longest since
Jan. 23.  ‘Continue to Rally’  The People’s Bank of China cut the amount lenders must keep
in reserve on Feb. 24 for the second time since December, and
has kept interest rates on hold since July. Governor  Zhou
Xiaochuan  said China may widen the trading band the yuan is
confined to, the official Xinhua News Agency reported on March
5.  “Stocks will continue to rally as long as growth won’t
slow too much,” Greg Lesko, who manages $700 million at Deltec
Asset Management in  New York  including investments in Chinese
stocks, said in a phone interview yesterday. “China’s cut to
the growth target isn’t significant relative to the growth pace
in Europe and the U.S.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced 2.9 percent to
$39.96, the biggest one-day rally in two months.  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO)  extended gains after surging 157
percent to a record on March 12, when bigger competitor Youku
Inc. said it would buy the online video sharing website in a $1
billion stock swap deal.  ‘Next Big Thing’  Shanghai-based Tudou rose 7.6 percent yesterday to $42.50,
the highest level since its initial public offering in the U.S.
in August. The shares have soared a total 268 percent over the
past five trading days. American depositary receipts of Beijing-
based Youku retreated 1.5 percent to $31.38 after jumping 27
percent on March 12.  Sohu, based in Beijing, jumped 8.1 percent, the most since
Oct. 27, to $53.62 yesterday, the highest level in five weeks.  Citron Research, which wrote reports questioned several
Chinese companies’ financial reporting last year, said the
increase in Tudou and Youku stock after the merger announcement
signals “the market is valuing video in China as the next big
thing,” according to a  report  on the firm’s website yesterday.  Citron said that Sohu’s online video site attracts users to
watch more minutes per page view than its competitors, citing
data from December.  Qihoo Partnership  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  extended its rally to a
fifth day, gaining 1.8 percent to 1,395.95, the strongest level
since June 2008.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , which develops computer software
including anti-virus applications, desktops and browsers, added
5.7 percent to reach a six-month high of $23.10.  The Beijing-based company entered into a partnership with
Phoenix New Media Ltd., owner of a Chinese news web portal, the
companies said in a joint statement on March 12. Qihoo will add
New Media’s news content to its desktop and other platforms for
personal computers, according to the statement.  Qihoo will also add the computer game “Angry Birds,” made
by Rovio Entertainment Oy, to its desktop from March 22,
according to a  statement  on the company’s website.  ADRs of Cnooc, the largest offshore oil explorer in China,
added 4.3 percent to $224.50, the biggest daily increase in two
months. The ADRs, each representing 100 common shares, traded 1
percent  above  the company’s  Hong Kong  stock, the biggest premium
since March 1. Cnooc shares gained 2.4 percent to HK$17.24 in
Hong Kong, the equivalent of $2.20.  Gas Prices  China may raise gasoline and diesel prices this week after
the conclusion of the 10-day Congress meeting, following an
increase in global crude prices beyond the state-set threshold
that triggers adjustments.  Prices may rise by as much as 400 yuan ($63.25) a metric
ton, Liao Kaishun, an analyst at C1 Energy, and Yao Daming, head
of the oil-product department at the Guangdong Oil & Gas
Association, said separately by phone from Guangzhou, China
yesterday. The country raised fuel prices by 300 yuan a ton on
Feb. 8, the first increase in 10 months.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s biggest maker of
solar panels, rose before a U.S. Commerce Department ruling on
Chinese imports on March 19. Suntech, based in Jiangsu province
in eastern China, jumped 8.8 percent to $2.96, the most in eight
weeks.  The Commerce Department is scheduled to rule on a claim by
Bonn, Germany-based SolarWorld AG’s U.S. unit, Helios Solar
Works, and five other solar-panel makers asserting that Chinese
competitors receive unfair government support that lets them
flood the market with cheap products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  