-- MBF Clearing Sued by CFTC, Accused of Not Segregating Funds
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-13T20:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/mbf-clearing-is-sued-by-cftc-over-claims-customer-funds-weren-t-segregated.html
MBF Clearing Corp. was sued by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and accused of failing to
properly segregate customer accounts from its own funds and of
violating the Commodity Exchange Act.  MBF employees from September 2008 to March 2010 deposited
$30 million to $60 million in customer funds into a U.S.
government money market fund at JPMorgan Chase & Co. without
properly segregating them, the CFTC said today in a complaint in
federal court in  New York .  The funds weren’t properly titled, and redemption
provisions didn’t comply with  CFTC  regulations, the agency said.
Nor was there proper documentation for the account, it said. MBF
also allegedly failed to obtain customer segregation
acknowledgement letters on two accounts holding funds for
foreign customers from February 2007 to April 2010.  “MBF failed to diligently supervise its employees and
agents,” the CFTC said in the complaint. “MBF did not have any
written policies or procedures governing the opening and
maintenance of customer segregated accounts.”  ‘Strongest Bank’  The New York-based firm was accused of failing to maintain
sufficient funds in segregation on about 322 business days from
Oct. 3, 2008, to March 26, 2010. MBF describes itself on its
website as a buyer and seller of commodities futures contracts
and says it was founded in 1987.  The CFTC asked for a court order barring MBF’s “unlawful
acts and practices” and unspecified civil penalties.  As of Feb. 10, MBF held $57.2 million in customer funds,
according to the CFTC. On March 5, MBF’s customer account
contained no cash, according to the CFTC.  Mark B. Fisher, MBF’s president and founder, said in an
interview that the firm  “invested customer segregated money in
a U.S. government money market fund in the strongest bank in the
world, JPMorgan.”  The CFTC’s complaint acknowledges that MBF was informed by
JPMorgan on actual account statements that the account was
described as a “Commodity Customer Segregated Bank Account,”
Fisher said.  Lehman Bankruptcy  “What the complaint fails to say is that MBF Clearing
Corp. had placed its customer funds into the JPMorgan government
money market account two days after  Lehman Brothers  filed for
bankruptcy for the sole purpose of protecting its customers’
funds by depositing them in the safest bank in the world and in
the most secure investments, namely U.S. government
securities,” Fisher said.  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed the largest bankruptcy
in U.S. history on Sept. 15, 2008.  As soon as MBF was notified the JPMorgan account might not
qualify for segregation, the firm “moved all of the customer
funds out of this account and reported what had occurred to its
designated self-regulatory agency, the CME Group Inc.,” Fisher
said.  “Not a nickel of customer money was lost,” Fisher said.
“We are disappointed that the CFTC has chosen to address this
matter through an enforcement proceeding.”  ‘Protecting Its Customers’  Fisher said that MBF and its customers also were victims of
the collapse of MF Global Holdings Ltd. “Consistent with its
approach of protecting its customers, however, MBF took the MF
Global losses onto itself and made all of its customers whole,”
Fisher said.  MF Global filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after getting
margin calls and bank demands for money at its operating unit,
MF Global Inc.  The case is CFTC v. MBF Clearing Corp., 12-cv-1830, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  