-- Biocon Plunges After Ending Pfizer Pact: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-03-13T11:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/biocon-plunges-after-pfizer-insulin-supply-agreement-ends-mumbai-mover.html
Biocon Ltd. (BIOS) ,  India ’s biggest
biotechnology company, slumped the most in almost three months
after an insulin distribution agreement with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  ended.  Biocon  fell  6.3 percent to 250.75 rupees, the most since
Dec. 19, at the close in Mumbai. The stock was the biggest loser
in the 19-member  BSE India Healthcare Index. (BSETHC)   All rights to the products returned to Biocon yesterday and
insulin under the Univia and Glarvia brands will now be sold by
the Indian company, the two drugmakers said in a joint statement
today. Biocon received $100 million in upfront payments in
October 2010 after Pfizer agreed to sell four of the Bangalore-
based company’s medications globally while another $100 million
was kept in escrow pending certain milestones.  The change “negatively impacts” prospects for Biocon’s
insulin products, particularly in developed markets such as the
U.S. and  Europe , Bino Pathiparampil, an analyst at IIFL Ltd.
wrote in a note to clients. As part of the settlement, Biocon
will keep all the upfront and milestone payments it has received
and that should help “neutralize the impact,” he wrote.  As many as 10 percent of the estimated 366 million people
affected by diabetes worldwide have the Type 1 form that’s
marked by the inability to produce insulin, a hormone that turns
blood sugar into energy, according to the International Diabetes
Federation in Brussels.  New Alliances  “Biocon will continue to work with its existing partners
in several markets and will pursue a commercial strategy on its
own and through new alliances in other markets,” Chairman Kiran Mazumdar Shaw said in a statement. The two drugmakers have
agreed it is in their “best interest to move forward
independently,” the companies said.  The agreement with Biocon was aimed at helping Pfizer, the
world’s biggest drugmaker, tap the more than $14 billion global
market for insulin, which is dominated by  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) ,
Sanofi and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)   A change of business priorities at Pfizer led to the end of
the pact, Shaw said in an interview on the Bloomberg UTV
television channel today. Biocon received a “substantial
portion” of the $100 million kept in escrow, she said.  Pfizer, based in  New York , will continue developing a
portfolio of medicines both internally and through
collaborations, Diem Nguyen, Pfizer’s general manager for
biosimilars, said in the statement.  “We will continue to be active in our own research and
business development efforts for diabetes, which represents a
huge unmet medical need,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  