-- Bluefin Tuna Demand Lures Japanese Investors Chasing 7% Return
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-03-13T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/bluefin-tuna-demand-lures-japanese-investors-chasing-7-return.html
The world’s appetite for Japanese
tuna, Wagyu beef and other delicacies prized in restaurants as
far away as  New York ’s Morimoto is attracting funds chasing 7
percent returns from investments in farms and fish ponds.  Institutional investors and regional banks have poured at
least 23 billion yen ($280 million) into about a dozen funds
aimed at boosting exports of Japanese foods. Four are managed by
Daisuke Mori, a former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  banker who has pooled 10
billion yen to invest in projects including tuna farming, most
of them on the island of Kyushu in Japan’s south, far from the
radiation contamination in the northern Fukushima area.  “Food is the one area that has a big investment
potential,” said Mori, 44, president of Dogan Investments Inc.
in Fukuoka City. “Locally farmed tuna, pork and beef on Kyushu
island should get a stronger connection with the big market
outside of Japan.”  Enthusiasm for Japanese food products has led at least 25
regional banks to increase lending to farmers who want to export
abroad. Even Japan’s largest brokerage,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , is
getting involved, assigning former stockbroker Shigekazu
Wakabayashi to oversee the farming of sweet mini-tomatoes, the
first of which ripened in January. Nomura wants to sell the
tomato technology it has developed to  China ,  Russia ,  India  and
Southeast Asian countries, company officials said.  Fish Farming  Mori, who ran Citigroup’s Fukuoka branch during his six-
year tenure with the New York-based bank, has directed 48
million yen into  Burimy Corp. , which has set up confined areas
where hundreds of thousands of bluefin tuna and yellowtail swim
in pens about half a mile offshore. Japan has spent more than
three decades pioneering a way to farm tuna, which is one of the
most difficult fish to breed.  Burimy plans to sell 2,000 farmed tuna this year and to
more than double sales next year, said Takahiro Hama, 42, a
company director. While Burimy won’t disclose its returns,
Ryohei Hayashi, a senior  Dogan  manager, said the latest of its
funds, which are closed to individual investors, is targeting 7
percent this year.  The tuna farm exports about 40 percent of its fish, mostly
to stores and restaurants in  California  and New York, including
the 10th Avenue fusion establishment owned by Masaharu Morimoto,
star of the television cooking show “Iron Chef.”  Tuna Pizza  Morimoto ’s tuna pizza, an appetizer featuring Japanese
farmed-tuna sashimi on a crispy tortilla with olives, is one of
the most popular dishes on the menu, according to General
Manager James Roberts, who said the restaurant buys farmed tuna
from Japan because of concern that ocean stocks of the fish are
being depleted.  Burimy has started talks with Tokyo-based Nomura about an
initial public offering to fund further export growth in the
 Middle East  and  Europe , Hama said.  Regional banks, faced with anemic lending rates of 1.04
percent, also are seeking to capitalize on the popularity of
Japanese delicacies abroad to boost lending volumes and profits.  Kagoshima Bank (8390)  Ltd., based on the southern end of Kyushu,
has increased loans to farmers willing to concentrate on
specialty foods for export rather than rice or sugarcane for
domestic consumption. Agricultural lending by the bank rose 3
percent as of Sept. 30 as average  loans  outstanding in Japan
declined for a second consecutive year.  Wagyu Beef  Among farmers benefiting from the lending increase are
those raising Wagyu beef and Kagoshima black swine, said
Masanaka Mei, head of trade promotion at the bank, who has
accompanied the lender’s president, Motohiro Kamimura, on trips
to  Asia  and Europe along with customers to scout out new markets
for their exports.  Wagyu cattle, including those from Kobe in western  Japan ,
are a Japanese breed known for the tenderness and marbled
texture of its meat. Black swine, trademarked as  Kagoshima 
Kurobuta, are a rare breed of pig whose meat has high fat
content and is prized for its consistency and flavor.  “Going to food shows and researching overseas food markets
is part of my job to seek ways to search for places where
Kagoshima-brand products can be sold,” Mei said last month.  Bankers moonlighting as traveling salesmen for their
borrowers have paid dividends for Kagoshima Bank: Higher lending
helped increase net income 0.9 percent in the six months ended
Sept. 30 compared with an average 9.7 percent year-on-year
decline among 84 publicly listed regional banks, according to
data compiled by Nomura.  ‘The Wealthy Class’  A 615 million-yen Kagoshima Bank fund investing in
agriculture pays an annual return of about 1.6 percent, said
Sota Yonemori, a senior manager of the lender’s business-
promotion division.  Kagoshima is the biggest producer of beef and pork among
Japan’s 47 prefectures. Exports of  Kagoshima  beef may eclipse a
record 220 tons in the year ending March 31 after quadrupling
from 53 tons five years ago, said Noboru Sugiyama, a manager at
the Kagoshima prefectural government’s livestock division.  Hong
Kong  buys 80 percent of the exports, he said.  “Kagoshima beef is getting its popularity from the wealthy
class in Hong Kong and  Singapore ,” Sugiyama said. “We want to
ship more Kagoshima beef out to Asia. At the same time, we can’t
draw a rosy picture of domestic beef demand on the back of
stagnant economic growth.”  Yellowtail Exports  Minami Kyushu Chikusan Kogyo Co., a Kagoshima beef and pork
farmer and wholesaler, borrows about half of its 3.5 billion yen
in loans from Kagoshima Bank and may increase debt to expand
farming and capitalize on rising demand from customers in Asia
outside of Japan, said President Hirofumi Onimaru.  Japan’s exports of tuna and yellowtail climbed 16.9 percent
and 18.1 percent in 2011, respectively, to 7.36 billion yen and
7.76 billion yen from a year earlier, according to data compiled
by the agriculture ministry. That compares with an 8.3 percent
decline in the country’s total food and forestry products
 exports  last year. Beef shipments abroad totaled 3.48 billion
yen last year, up 2.4 percent from 2010, the data shows.  At Nomura Wago Farm Co. -- a partnership between the
brokerage and vegetable-farming and wholesaling firm Wago Co. --
Wakabayashi, 58, the former stockbroker, rises at 7 a.m. daily
and dons a T-shirt, jeans and boots. Instead of driving to visit
customers in Osaka,  Tokyo  and Kanagawa, where he was in charge
of Nomura sales offices, he surveys the indoor farm in Chiba
prefecture, 75 kilometers (47 miles) east of Tokyo.  ‘Big Change’  His responsibilities include overseeing the greenhouse
temperature, which is kept at 28 degrees Celsius (82 degrees
Fahrenheit), the nurture of 13,000 seedlings and the workers who
package tomatoes in plastic cases marked “Premium Frutica.”
Each of the four 1-inch tomatoes in a package has about 30
percent more sugar than other tomatoes sold in Japan, the
company said.  Nomura has invested 2.8 million yen in the project and
plans to build more greenhouses and expand annual production to
60 metric tons from the current 16 tons, Wakabayashi said.  “It’s a big change in my life, turning into a farmer from
a securities salesman,” Wakabayashi, president of Nomura’s
farming unit, said. “We are confident we can sell Japan’s
advanced crop technologies to overseas markets.”  Wago also is moving ahead with its own mini-tomato
projects. It plans to build 50 greenhouses and reach annual
revenue of 30 billion yen in the next three years, Takehiko
Kogo, deputy head of the firm, said in January.  Mini-Tomatoes  “China and  Southeast Asia ’s wealthy class is one of our
targets, given that people in the region are fond of raw
vegetables and fruits that have strong tastes like sweet mini-
tomatoes and strawberries,” said Kogo.  The largest bank in the prefecture where the tomato farm is
located,  Chiba Bank Ltd. (8331) , hired its first agriculture business
researcher in 2009. Partly as a result, the bank expanded
agribusiness lending by 23 percent to 8.04 billion yen in 2011,
helping boost net income by 0.6 percent in the six months ended
Sept. 30. The bank also increased loans outstanding 3.9 percent,
outstripping the average growth for regional banks of 2 percent.  Explosions at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in
northern Japan after an earthquake and tsunami last March
contaminated soil, water and forests, delivering a blow to the
country’s 100 trillion-yen food industry and the perception of
the safety of Japanese food products.  Hama of Burimy estimated that the impact on his business
from the nuclear crisis, including lost sales and testing,
amounted to about 200 million yen.  “The nuclear accident forced us to do tests at our expense
for our farmed fish,” said Hama. “Testing to show our products
are safe is the only remedy to cope with harmful rumors after
the crisis and convince our customers that our fish are safe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 