-- BMW Predicts Record Profit in 2012 on Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-03-13T12:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/bmw-targets-higher-2012-pretax-profit-as-3-series-fuels-demand.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , plans to surpass last
year’s record profit in 2012 as a new generation of the 3-Series
sedan boosts demand.  Pretax profit this year will probably beat 2011’s 7.38
billion euros ($9.72 billion), the Munich-based company said
today. The outlook exceeds the 7.06 billion-euro average
estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We are targeting new highs in sales volume and pretax
earnings for 2012,” Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer 
said at the company’s annual press conference. “We are off to a
promising start” with car sales in the first two months of the
year at an all-time high.  BMW will add a second plant in China this year and is in
talks with the Brazilian government to build a factory in the
country as the luxury-car maker seeks to fend off efforts by
 Volkswagen AG (VOW3) ’s Audi and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz to nab the
segment’s lead spot. VW and Daimler forecast flat 2012 earnings,
burdened by costs for cleaner technology and new models.  The world’s top three upscale carmakers are all projecting
sales records this year on growth in  China  and recovering
spending in the U.S. After delivering 1.67 million cars last
year, BMW expects to sell at least 2 million vehicles by 2016,
four years earlier than planned, Reithofer said today.  Steady Target  “The outlook doesn’t look too ambitious,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based Bankhaus Metzler analyst with a
“buy” rating on the shares. “BMW didn’t trust itself to raise
its margin target range, but in this environment it’s
understandable and fits to BMW’s conservative approach.”  BMW  traded  down 7 cents, or 0.1 percent, at 70.98 euros as
of 1:33 p.m. in  Frankfurt  after advancing as much as or 0.8
percent. BMW has  risen  27 percent over the past 12 months,
making it the  third-best  performer in the 14-member Euro Stoxx
autos and parts index and valuing the company at 45.1 billion
euros.  Profitability at the automotive unit may decline this year
as the debt crisis unsettles consumers in  Europe  and the
introduction of new versions of the 3-Series and 1-Series
compact boosts sales of the lower-margin models.  ‘Uneasy Markets’  “Markets and consumers alike remain uneasy about the
significant public debt and the euro crisis,” Reithofer said,
projecting auto earnings before interest and taxes to be “at
the upper end” of its 8 percent to 10 percent target range.
That’s down from 11.8 percent in 2011.  The maker of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce vehicles spent 500
million euros in the second half of 2011 to introduce new
models. The expenses caused BMW’s auto margins to drop below
Audi’s, which reported a 12.1 percent return on sales.  Mercedes (DAI) ,
which is spending on a new line of small cars, posted a 9
percent Ebit margin in 2011.  Investments to introduce the “i” electric-car sub-brand
and to expand into new markets will likely burden profit more in
2012 than last year, Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner
said today.  “Key future projects are likely to result in a negative
impact on earnings stronger than last year,” he said, adding
that spending will still be less than 7 percent of sales.  Higher Dividend  BMW expects deliveries in 2012 to rise even as the debt
crisis in Europe makes sales in its home region an “uphill
battle,” Reithofer said last week at the Geneva motor show. The
company projects sales this year to rise by at least 10 percent
in China and by a “high single-digit” rate in  North America ,
offsetting a market decline of as much as 5 percent in Europe.  The luxury-car maker proposed a dividend of 2.30 euros per
common share for 2011, an increase from the previous year’s 1.30
euros, after net income surged 51 percent to 4.91 billion euros.  Reithofer’s total compensation for last year rose to 6.16
million euros from 4.3 million euros a year earlier, the company
said in its annual report.  Higher demand for luxury vehicles was also evident in the
earnings of  Porsche SE (PAH3) ’s carmaking unit. The maker of the 911
sports car, which is 49.9 percent-owned by Volkswagen, said
today that 2011 earnings before interest and taxes climbed 22
percent to a record 2.05 billion euros. Sales rose 18 percent to
10.9 billion euros, lifted by demand for the Cayenne SUV.  New Models  BMW (BMW)  introduced a new four-door version of the 6-Series
coupe at the Geneva motor show last week, while the Mini brand
announced plans to produce the Clubvan cargo vehicle starting in
the second half, adding to the new two-seat roadster this year.
The company plans to roll out 12 new and upgraded BMW and Mini
models by this summer, Reithofer said today.  In an effort to lower research costs for developing cleaner
technologies such as fuel cells, BMW is in talks with  General
Motors Co. (GM)  about a potential cooperation, adding to its existing
partnerships with  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
Reithofer said March 6.  To shore up its management ranks for its expansion, BMW
appointed Milagros Caina-Andree as head of personnel. The
Spanish-born executive will join the automaker in July from
 Deutsche Bahn AG (DBHN) ’s Schenker logistics unit, becoming BMW’s first
female management board member. The appointment expands the
board to eight.  Current personnel chief Harald Krueger will take on a new
role overseeing sales and product lines of the Mini and Rolls-
Royce brands as well as BMW’s motorcycle unit. He will also
expand BMW’s after-sales business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  