-- HBO’s Sarah Palin Biopic Draws Most Viewers in 8 Years
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-03-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/hbo-s-sarah-palin-biopic-draws-most-viewers-in-8-years.html
“Game Change,” the HBO film about
former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin’s 2008 vice-presidential
candidacy, was the cable channel’s most-watched original-film
premiere in almost eight years.  The debut at 9 p.m. on March 10 drew an average of 2.1
million viewers, HBO, owned by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. It was the biggest audience for an
original HBO film since “Something the Lord Made” in 2004.  “Game Change,” from Tom Hanks’s Playtone production
company, garnered praise from critics and scorn from Palin’s
supporters, who said it unfairly portrayed the former governor,
who was John McCain’s running mate on the Republican ticket. In
four showings over the weekend, the made-for-TV movie, starring
 Julianne Moore  as Palin, drew a total of 3.6 million viewers.  “The political theater makes for a breezy two hours,
though it certainly won’t tickle fans of the lipsticked pit
bull,” Bloomberg reviewer  Greg Evans  wrote. “Moore, perfectly
coifed and costumed, nails the Palin voice, and mannerisms, and
captures the charm.”  Since resigning as governor in 2009, Palin has become a
media personality. She is a commentator on  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox News
Channel, the author of two best-selling books, and she starred
in her own reality TV show, “Sarah Palin’s Alaska,” on the
 Discovery Channel .  Palin’s supporters said the HBO film is off the mark in its
portrayal of what occurred during the campaign, Randy Scheunemann, Palin’s foreign policy adviser, told reporters on a
conference call this month.  “To call this movie fiction gives fiction a bad name,”
Scheunemann said. In response, HBO said it stands by the movie,
which is based on portions of a nonfiction book of the same name
written by Mark Halperin and John Heilemann.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  