-- BOE’s Tucker Says Orderly Resolution Regime Needed for Insurers
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-13T08:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/boe-s-tucker-says-orderly-resolution-regime-needed-for-insurers.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor
 Paul Tucker  said regulators must allow for the orderly failure
of insurance companies to complement officials’ push to shield
taxpayers from having to rescue failing banks.  “Insurers must be able to fail quietly, in a controlled,
orderly way,” Tucker said at the  Association of British
Insurers  in  London  today. “Insurers are significant investors
in bank paper. In the future, whether in the U.K. or elsewhere,
you will not be protected by an implicit guarantee from the
state for those investments. Over time, that will be good for
stability because it will increase market discipline. But it
will be a new world for the  insurance industry  to adjust to.”  Tucker said officials face challenges in creating such a
regime because there are few recent examples of the collapse of
a “large traditional insurer,” while most countries’
arrangements for managing failing financial institutions are
limited to deposit-taking firms. The  Bank of England  will
address this issue as it takes on new powers to regulate the
financial system.  The importance of a resolution regime for insurers “will
be underlined as we -- and I mean the global community -- move
towards a world without a safety net for banks, leaving holders
of bank bonds exposed to risk,” he said.  He also said that central bank officials have “been
dismayed” by the costs for insurers and regulators to move to
the Solvency 2 regime and by the strains on oversight from a
complex system of rules.  Big Risks  The objective of the bank’s new Prudential Regulation
Authority is “effective prudential supervision” that isn’t
“mesmerized by checking compliance with a rule book or
approving the details of individual models,” he said. Instead,
supervision must address “the big risks that would undermine
the safety and soundness of a firm.”  Tucker said he has spoken to Hector Sants, chief executive
officer of the Financial Services Authority, and Martin
Wheatley, the FSA’s managing director for conduct, about
addressing the complexities related to with-profits policies.
Arrangements for cooperation between the PRA and the Financial
Conduct Authority on this issue will be set out in a Memorandum
of Understanding later this year.  While “nothing must be done” to jeopardize  securities
lending , regulators must be “attentive” to insurance firms
building shadow banks within their groups, Tucker said. The FSA
is working with the industry and has tried to focus insurers’
senior management on the risks of lending high-quality
securities against lower-quality collateral.  “Internationally, the authorities are going to have to go
further, putting some structure around these markets,” he said.
The Bank of England’s preference for “market-led” solutions
and the need for transparency may mean a “Trade Repository”
would have to be introduced, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  