-- Banks Sued By North Carolina Official Over Mortgage Registry
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-03-13T22:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/bofa-wells-fargo-sued-in-north-carolina-over-mortgage-registry.html
Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  were among companies sued by a North Carolina county
official over allegedly forged mortgage documents and the use of
a mortgage database under attack by states and counties.  The companies named in the lawsuit filed forged mortgage-
related documents, misled homeowners and impaired property
rights, according to a complaint filed today by Jeff Thigpen,
the Guilford County Register of Deeds. The county includes
Greensboro.  “Our office uncovered an abundance of falsified, forged
and fraudulently executed mortgage documents,” Thigpen said in
a statement. “But our investigation only found the tip of the
iceberg. We need the banks to clean up their mess.”  Banks and Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc.
have been sued by attorneys general in Massachusetts and New
York over the MERS database. Delaware sued the company without
filing claims against banks. Texas counties, meanwhile, are also
pursuing claims against MERS.  MERS tracks servicing rights and ownership interests in
mortgage loans on its registry, allowing banks to buy and sell
loans without recording transfers with counties.  Land Records  Shirley Norton, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, and
Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, declined to comment
about the complaint. The lawsuit also names  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  and others as defendants.
 Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for JPMorgan, and Kevin Heine, a
spokesman for BNY Mellon, declined to comment.  Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Merscorp Holdings Inc., said
in a statement that the complaint contains “a lot of political
rhetoric” and “misconstrues” the role of MERS.  In his complaint, Thigpen said the companies named in the
lawsuit “effectively privatized” the public property recording
system and disrupted the county’s responsibility to maintain
reliable land records.  The case is Guilford County ex rel. v. Lender Processing
Services, 12-CVS-4531, General Court of Justice, Superior Court
Division, Guilford County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 