-- Bovespa Posts World’s Biggest Gain as Vale Jumps on Metals Rally
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-03-13T21:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/bovespa-posts-world-s-biggest-gain-as-vale-jumps-on-metals-rally.html
The Bovespa index rose the most in
four months as  Vale SA (VALE5)  followed metals prices higher after
better-than-expected German investor confidence and U.S. retail
sales spurred optimism the global economy is strengthening.  Vale contributed the most to the gauge’s advance following
speculation that policy makers in  China , the company’s top
export market, will act to spur growth.  Even Construtora e
Incorporadora SA  rose after the builder’s annual sales exceeded
analyst estimates. Sixty-five stocks rose, while four fell.  Brazil ’s benchmark equity gauge added 3 percent to
68,394.33 at the close of trading in Sao Paulo. The surge was
the steepest one-day advance since Oct. 27 and led gains among
major global equity indexes after reports showed German investor
confidence increased more than analysts forecast and U.S. retail
sales grew at the fastest pace in five months.  “The confidence report in  Germany  is positive for stocks,
as it at least gives the impression that things over there are
not so bad, despite the problems we see in the region,” said
Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage 380 million reais ($212
million) at Legan Administracao de Recursos.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in  Mannheim ,
Germany, said its index of investor and analyst expectations,
which seeks to predict economic developments six months in
advance, rose to 22.3 from 5.4 in February. Economists had
forecast a gain to 10, according to the median of 36 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s real gained 0.3 percent to 1.7922 per dollar,
erasing earlier losses of as much as 1.6 percent.  The  Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index (CMDIBAS3) 
climbed 1.5 percent. The MSCI/Brazil Materials index was the
best performer among 10 industry groups, gaining the most since
May 2010.  China Growth Outlook  Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Holdings Inc. lifted their
estimates for China’s economic expansion. The central bank may
cut  interest rates  as soon as this month, Nomura analysts Zhang Zhiwei and Wendy Chen wrote in a note dated yesterday.  Even advanced 3.7 percent to 7.80 reais. The company
reported annual sales of 1.9 billion reais, above the 1.8
billion reais average estimate of six analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Vale rose 5.4 percent to 41.59 reais, halting a six-day
slide.  The Bovespa has advanced 21 percent this year after
slumping 18 percent in 2011, buoyed by Brazil’s interest-rate
cuts, signs of growth in the U.S. and renewed optimism  Europe 
may be closer to solving its debt crisis. The gauge trades at
11.1 times analysts’ earnings estimates, which compares with a
10.9 ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Traders  moved  8.33 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo 
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 7.21 billion reais this year through March 8,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  