-- Brazil Ethanol Drive Falters on Domestic Supply Shortage
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-03-13T16:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/brazil-ethanol-slows.html
Brazil  is struggling to make enough
ethanol to satisfy domestic demand just as the U.S. scraps
restrictions on imports for the first time since 1980.  The U.S., the world’s largest market for the biofuel, on
Jan. 1 cut a 45 cent-a-gallon tax credit and a 54 cent-a-gallon
tariff that protected local companies from foreign competition.
Brazil, the world’s No. 2 producer, is unlikely to be able to
take advantage after output dropped 19 percent this season.  Investment in new sugar-cane assets and plantations in
Brazil plummeted to $700 million last year, from $7.84 billion
in 2008, according to Salim Morsy, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in  New York . Biofuel investors in Brazil are
suffering from bad weather, poor infrastructure and government
bureaucracy, said Gerson Carneiro Leao, head of the National
Sugar Cane Commission at the CNA agricultural confederation.  “The government is to blame for the shortage of ethanol,”
Leao said by telephone from Recife. ”Producers are indebted,
taxes are exorbitant, and the red tape is stifling.”  Brazil may become a net importer of ethanol this year, with
purchases of 1.66 billion liters during the 2011-2012 season
exceeding exports for the first time in at least 10 years,
according to Sao Paulo-based consultancy  Datagro . Last year,
Brazil exported 1.97 billion liters of ethanol, compared with
the 5.1 billion liters shipped overseas in 2008.  Competitive Producer  Blessed with a climate suited for sugar cane, the feedstock
for ethanol, Brazil is among the world’s most competitive
producers of the fuel. Its ethanol generates 3.4 times more
energy than it consumes to be produced, compared with a 1.29
multiple for U.S. ethanol from corn, according to  Datagro.   The world’s fifth-largest country by size and population,
Brazil could more than double cane output to 1.2 billion metric
tons a year by 2020 without destroying virgin forest, according
to Sao Paulo-based sugar and ethanol association Unica.  Promoting its ethanol and developing a global biofuels
market became one of Brazil’s foreign policy objectives since
2007, after environmental groups such as  Greenpeace  alleged that
making the fuel led to rising food prices and deforestation.  Former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  countered that
biofuels would help reduce conflicts over energy resources. The
crusade became emblematic of Brazil’s fight against  farm
subsidies  and trade protection, which were at the center of the
stalled Doha round of global trade talks.  Expected Increase  Even a projected increase of ethanol production by 2
billion liters for the next harvest in the Center-South, the
main growing region, won’t be enough to meet domestic demand,
according to Consultoria Idea, a Sao-Paulo-based consultancy.  Brazil’s fast-growing fleet of flex-fuel cars, which burn
any mix of gasoline and ethanol, will cause domestic demand for
the distilled sugar cane juice to rise to 50 billion liters per
year by 2018, a government study shows.  “It offends me to see fingers pointed against clean energy
from biofuels, fingers soiled with oil and coal,” Lula told a
World Food Organization conference in 2008.  Brazil’s frustrated global foray also reflects how little
progress it made in diversifying supply by promoting production
in  Africa  and Central America, Julio Borges, partner at Job
Economia, a Sao Palo-based sugar cane consultancy, said.  “So far the strategy hasn’t produced any results and maybe
it won’t,” said Borges by telephone from Sao Paulo. “Ethanol
is great environmentally and socially -- it generates a lot of
jobs -- but you can’t trust its supply.”  New Distilleries  Brazil would require an average of 15 new distilleries per
year to reach the government’s target of producing 60 billion
liters by 2021, Last year three new plants came on line.  “The opportunities that exist in Brazil today require
solutions to challenges, such as the renewal of cane plantations
and infrastructure bottlenecks, which increase the cost of
transportation and the final product,” according to  BP Plc (BP) .  The government on Feb. 24 outlined a 15.1 billion reais
($8.4 billion) annual investment plan through 2015 to boost cane
and ethanol output. The plan must still be approved by President  Dilma Rousseff  and would require private sector participation.  For investors to tap new funds the government needs to
tackle other obstacles such as domestic fuel price distortions,
said Amaryllis Romano, an agriculture analyst at Tendencias
Consultoria Integrada, a Sao Paulo-based consultant.  “The ideal would be for the government to stop controlling
gasoline prices,” Romano said in a telephone interview.  Gasoline Prices  Gasoline prices kept about 12 percent below international
market levels by state-controlled oil company  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  have prevented producers from raising ethanol
prices for competitive reasons, capping profits and slowing
investment, Guilherme Nastari, director at consultancy Datagro
Consultoria, said in an e-mailed statement.  Cane processors have instead produced more profitable
sugar, which averaged 27 cents a pound in 2011, compared with
22.3 cents in 2010 and 18 cents in 2009. Taking into account the
higher energy value of gasoline, ethanol is now the more
expensive of the two fuels for Brazilian motorists.  Even if Brazil produces an ethanol surplus in future years
it faces uncertainty over regulations in consumer countries,
said Cole Gustafson, a biofuels economist at North Dakota State
University in Fargo.  A federal judge in December blocked  California ’s new fuel
standard, reducing potential demand for Brazil’s low-carbon
ethanol. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has also
lowered its renewable fuel standard, Gustafson said.  “Lower federal and state requirements erode demand for
Brazilian ethanol,” Gustafson said by telephone. “That gives
an advantage to U.S. producers, who can deliver cheaper.”  Investment Curbed  Traders have been unwilling to commit to long-term supply
contracts given these uncertainties, which has kept Brazilian
producers from investing to expand their export capacity, said
Antonio de Padua Rodrigues, Unica’s technical director.  “Those who are obliged to use ethanol in the North
American market are still uncomfortable. If they wait for Brazil
to increase its supply, nothing will change,” Padua said by
telephone from  Sao Paulo , referring to mills’ reluctance to
invest in new capacity. “Maybe it’s because there are only two
main producer countries.”  Efforts by the U.S. and Brazil to promote cane production
in Africa and elsewhere over the last five years have yielded
little other than identifying countries with production
potential.  “So far no country has made it to the second stage,” of
actually producing ethanol, Mariangela Rebua, director-general
of the department of energy at Brazil’s foreign ministry, said.  “We’re just beginning,” she said in an interview in
Brasilia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net  or
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  or
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  