-- Brazil Special Report: Where Does Stuff Come From?
-- B y   t h e   S u s t a i n a b i l i t y   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-13T15:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/brazil-special-report-where-does-stuff-come-from-.html
     Central to sustainability is a deceptively hard
question:
Where does stuff come from?  Global companies are spending enormous time and effort
learning to answer this question with precision. For
example, almost three-dozen companies, including Ford Motor
Co., IBM Corporation and Ikea Corporation, recently "road
tested" a new set of guidelines for calculating and disclosing
the emissions associated with their global supply chains. (The
project is called the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3)
Accounting and Reporting Standard of the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol Initiative.) To disclose their impacts, companies
have to know where their stuff comes from.  An enormous amount of this stuff -- raw materials
and food -- comes from  Brazil , the focus of this month's
Special Report. This nation of 195 million people leads the
world in a breathtaking diversity of categories. First in
orange-growing. First in coffee. First in Sugar. Second in
iron-ore exports. Second in soybean production. Economic
success has lifted millions of Brazilians out of poverty, even
as it has led to problems -- such as the global environmental
impacts of deforesting 18 percent of the Amazon rainforest
since 1970.  Bloomberg Sustainability News will return again and again
to Brazil, so we thought it the best place to kick off our
first country-themed package. The editors of this page are
privileged to have Bloomberg colleagues in our Brasilia, Rio
de Janeiro and  Sao Paulo  bureaus, who reported and wrote the
articles in this series.  Matthew Bristow and Juan Pablo Spinetto give an
overview of the Brazilian resource economy and the challenges
of distributing natural wealth. Bristow has been working for
Bloomberg News in Brasilia since 2010, writing about the
Brazilian central bank and other economic news, having served
a previous tour in Bogota. Spinetto, a Bloomberg journalist
since 2004, is part of the commodities team for  Latin
America , covering from Rio de Janeiro mining and metals
companies, such as Vale SA and EBX Group Co.  Peter Millard shows us Brazil’s challenge of jumpstarting
a shipbuilding industry to help tap the country's recent oil
discoveries. Millard is Bloomberg News' bureau chief in  Rio de
Janeiro  and has been covering Brazil's oil industry for two
years. Millard previously covered the oil industries in  Mexico 
and  Venezuela  and has worked as a Latin America-based
journalist since 1995.  Lucia Kassai reports from Sao Paulo that the world’s
biggest coffee producer is about to become its biggest
consumer. She has worked for Bloomberg for 2 1/2
years, covering oranges, coffee, sugarcane and the other soft
commodities.  Kim Chipman and Sophia Yan explain the state of Amazon
deforestation, a concern far beyond Brazil’s borders. Chipman
is a Washington-based reporter who has been at Bloomberg News
since 1997. In addition to writing about climate change issues
since 2005, she's covered the EPA, the U.S. labor
movement, the 2008 presidential race and the Obama White
House. Yan covers  government spending  in energy, including
loan guarantees, tax credits, grants, contracts, and R&D
funding. She joined Bloomberg in 2010.  Rayond Colitt and Stephan Nielsen show why the Brazilian
ethanol industry is struggling at a moment of great
opportunity. Colitt has covered Latin America for 20
years, from earthquakes to  stock exchanges , Chavez to Lula. He
works in Brasilia after stints in Quito, Caracas and Sao
Paulo. Nielsen covers renewable energy in Latin America and is
based in Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo bureau.  Adriana Brasileiro wrote about wealthy Brazilians
building homes in nature preserves for the latest edition
of Bloomberg Markets magazine. She covers  investment banking 
for Bloomberg News in Rio de Janeiro.  Read the full  Special Report .  Read more energy & sustainability news.
 