-- Brazil Faces New Oil-Boom Curse as the World’s Resource Engine
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-03-13T16:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/brazil-faces-new-oil-boom-curse-as-the-world-s-resource-engine.html
In 2007, Brazilian geologists made
the biggest oil find in the Americas in three decades. Buried
more than five miles below sea-level, the discovery was
estimated to raise the country’s crude reserves by 62 percent.  Brazil  was already the world’s natural resource powerhouse:
its biggest exporter of coffee, sugar, orange juice and beef.
The prospect of it becoming a major energy power as well
prompted then-President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva to declare
amid a rush of patriotism that “God is Brazilian.”  Brazil has struggled for half a century to break its
dependence on commodities, grappling with the so-called resource
curse. Depending on how profits are managed, the new oil wealth
could be a godsend that drives a new era of development or a
burden that holds the nation back, said  Alberto Ramos , a senior
Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York .  “They can be  Norway , or they can be many other countries
where oil did not bring growth and development,” Ramos said in
a telephone interview. “You’d better be smart and forward-
looking about using it, otherwise it might hurt you.”  Demand for food and metals for an industrializing  Asia  has 
tripled  commodities prices in the last decade, helping Brazil
overtake Italy and  Spain  to become the world’s sixth-biggest
economy. Higher prices for Brazilian  iron ore  and soybeans, and
an almost sevenfold rise in foreign direct investment, has
helped the real double over the same period, making it the best
performer of 163 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Widespread Benefits  The benefits of the resource boom are widespread. It helped
millions of Brazilians out of poverty and drove down the
country’s net debt to 37.2 percent of gross domestic product,
from 60.4 percent.  Germany ’s debt-to-GDP ratio is 83.2 percent.  Still, commodity price swings can be volatile, making
resource-rich economies vulnerable, and efforts devoted to
commodities can stifle growth elsewhere. Most productivity
growth in a developing economy comes from manufacturing, not
agriculture or resource extraction, said  Neil Shearing , an
emerging markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London.  Brazil’s industry has contracted for three straight
quarters, limiting growth to 2.7 percent growth last year, the
nation’s second-weakest performance since 2003.  “One of the consequences of very, very strong resource-led
growth is that non-resource sectors tend to get squeezed,”
Shearing said in a telephone interview. “It is possible to get
rich and be a big commodities producer, but it’s far more
difficult.”  Easy Riches  The countries that have been most successful in developing
their economies in recent years have mostly done so without the
easy riches of commodities, Shearing said. Of the nations that
joined the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development since 1995 -- the  Czech Republic , Hungary, Poland,
 South Korea , Slovakia,  Chile , Slovenia,  Israel  and Estonia --
only Chile is a large exporter of raw materials.  Since colonization by  Portugal  in the 16th century,
Brazil’s economic development has been a series of boom and
bust. It started with the country’s namesake Brazilwood, a tree
used for making dyes, followed by sugar, gold, rubber, cotton
and coffee. Beginning in the 1970s, Brazil’s vast savannah
grasslands were turned to soy cultivation using new crop
strains, advances in soil management and pest control.  Brazil began efforts to break its dependence on commodities
by promoting industrialization behind a tariff wall in the 1950s
and 1960s, said Werner Baer, an economics professor at the
University of Illinois and author of the book “The Brazilian
Economy, Growth and Development.”  Argentine Economist  Governments at the time were influenced by Argentine
economist Raul Prebisch, who argued that raw materials prices
would fall relative to manufactured goods, limiting Latin
American countries to a state of sub-development, Baer said.  “Not only in Brazil, but in much of  Latin America ,
industrialization was justified on the basis of long-term
weakness of commodity prices,” said Baer, who oversaw Brazilian
central bank President Alexandre Tombini’s doctoral thesis about
inflation and financial instability.  Even after decades of trying to reduce dependence on
commodities, Brazil’s biggest exports in 2011 were iron ore,
crude, soy, sugar cane, coffee and chicken, according to Trade
Ministry figures. The country’s customer base is growing. In
2009  China  overtook the U.S. as its biggest customer.  The rise in commodities prices has lifted Brazil’s equities
to 2.73 of total world capitalization on March 12, from 0.7
percent eight years ago, as companies such as  Vale SA (VALE3) , the
world’s biggest iron-ore miner, and BRF Brazil Foods SA, the
biggest poultry farmer, benefit from higher prices. Brazil’s
state-controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  is also now
the world’s fifth biggest oil company.  Manufacturing Lags  The downside of this has been the country’s lagging
manufacturing sector, said Capital Economics’s Shearing.
President Dilma Rousseff has repeatedly expressed concern about
how the strengthening real is hurting exporters by making
Brazil’s goods more expensive. Last week she pledged to take all
necessary measures to shield the economy from a “monetary
tsunami” of weak currencies in Europe and the U.S.  Finance Minister Guido Mantega has intervened to try to
protect Brazilian industry, including tax breaks for local
producers and measures to weaken the real and shield the textile
industry.  The real must decline by 20 percent to be “sustainable,”
Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said in
an interview in  London  yesterday.  Even with soaring raw materials prices, last year Brazil
fell to 84 out of 187 countries on the United Nation’s Human
Development Index. The ranking is based on gross domestic
product, health and education level. The country was 73 out of
173 countries in 2002.  Oil Royalties  The prospect of oil royalties has already sparked a battle
in Congress over how much money Brazil’s oil-producing regions
should share with the rest of the country. In 2010, Lula vetoed
an amendment that would have divided the revenue among all
states and cities following opposition from producer states.
During her 2010 presidential election campaign, Rousseff pledged
to use Brazil’s oil wealth eliminate extreme poverty.  “If they can use the revenue relatively rationally, and
invest it for long term, the prospects would be pretty good,”
said Professor Anthony Pereira, director of the Brazil Institute
at King’s College, London, in a phone interview. “The resource
curse isn’t inevitable.”  Read the full Special Report,  click here .
Read more energy & sustainability news,  click here .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  