-- Brazil Winning Monetary Tsunami Fight, Mantega Aide Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-03-13T12:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/brazil-winning-currency-fight-against-monetary-tsunami-mantega-aide-says.html
Brazil ’s fight to stem currency
gains fueled by a “monetary tsunami” is succeeding, and the
government will remain vigilant as borrowing costs in rich
nations stay low over the next decade, a finance official said.  “Our measures to manage capital inflows have been
effective,” Marcio Holland, secretary of economic policy at the
 finance ministry , said at a reception in Sao Paulo yesterday to
unveil enhancements to the Bloomberg system. “They’ve had a lot
of success.”  The real strengthened 8.7 percent in the first two months
of the year against the  U.S. dollar , the best performance among
the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Since the
start of March, when Brazil boosted efforts to contain the
rally, it was the worst performer, falling 4.8 percent through
yesterday.  President  Dilma Rousseff , visiting  Germany  last week,
pledged to take all needed measures to shield the world’s
second-biggest emerging market from efforts by  Europe  and the
U.S. to “artificially devalue” their currencies.  Yesterday, she extended a 6 percent tax on foreign loans
and bonds issued abroad to include lending of as much as five
years. The tax, which originally applied to foreign borrowing of
up to two years, had already been extended on March 1 to include
loans of three years or less. The real fell 1 percent to 1.8143
per U.S. dollar at 9:33 a.m. local time.  ‘Bad’ Inflows  Holland said the government is seeking to eliminate “bad”
capital inflows that create distortions in the economy.  “The world will probably have to live with low  interest
rate  for approximately 10 years,” Holland said. “It’s up to
countries like Brazil, obviously, to fight against capital
inflows that disrupt the Brazilian economic system.”  Investors and exporters have poured $15.5 billion into
Brazil since the beginning of the year, contributing to gains in
the currency, compared with an outflow of $3 billion in the
fourth quarter of 2011.  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
said that the government’s efforts to weaken the real may be
falling short, as the currency needs to decline by 20 percent to
keep Latin America’s biggest economy competitive.  “Brazil’s biggest cyclical challenge is to get rid of the
strength of the real,” O’Neill, 54, said in an interview in
 London  yesterday. O’Neill, who created the BRIC acronym in 2001
to describe the emerging markets of Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and
 China , said the currency needs to lose a fifth of its value to
be “sustainable.”  Eduardo Loyo, a former central bank director who is now
chief economist at Banco BTG Pactual SA, said at the same event
yesterday with Holland that the real continues to be supported
by “positive fundamentals.”  Import Surge  A stronger currency hurts exporters by making goods more
expensive in dollar terms and spurs demand for imports. Car
imports surged 30 percent last year, accounting for 24 percent
of vehicles licensed, compared with 18.8 percent in 2010.
 Industrial production  fell 3.4 percent in January from a year
ago, the most since September 2009, after the economy had its
second-weakest performance last year since 2003.  To fight what Rousseff and her aides frequently refer to as
a global “currency war,” Brazil in the past two years has
raised taxes on foreign investors in the local fixed-income
market, boosted costs for domestic companies that borrow abroad,
and imposed a tax on trading currency derivatives.  The central bank has lowered the benchmark interest rate by
275 basis points since August, to 9.75 percent, reducing the
attractiveness of Brazilian assets to investors borrowing at
near-zero rates abroad. Even with the easing, Brazil’s
inflation-adjusted rate, at 4.28 percent, remains the highest in
the Group of 20 nations after Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman in São Paulo at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  