-- Brazil Slowing Forest Destruction Cuts Greenhouse Gas Burden
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   S o p h i a   Y a n
-- 2012-03-13T16:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/brazil-slowing-forest-destruction-cuts-greenhouse-gas-burden.html
As world political and business
leaders ready for the Rio+20 U.N. sustainability conference in
June,  Brazil ’s leaders are debating policy changes that could
jeopardize the leadership it has earned from reducing Amazon
deforestation and greenhouse gas emissions.  Since hosting the 1992 “Earth Summit,” which produced the
first international agreement on forest protection, Brazil has
risen from the ninth- to sixth-largest economy, ahead of the
U.K. and just behind  France . Deforestation in the Amazon last
year fell to the lowest rate since government began monitoring
the world’s biggest rainforest in 1988. The rate is down almost
80 percent in six years.  “A decade ago, almost everyone would have said efforts to
get Brazil to stop cutting down the Amazon were a total
failure,” said Doug Boucher, head of the Tropical Forest and
Climate Initiative at the Union of Concerned Scientists.
“Thanks to a shift in political dynamics and rise of a strong
environmental movement, it became a huge success story.”  Brazil is now in danger of backtracking because of a
proposed overhaul to the country’s 1965 Forest Code, which
requires farmers to keep as much as 80 percent of their land as
forest, environmentalists say. Brazil’s House and Senate have
each passed legislation that farmers and ranchers say is
necessary to update current law and that activists call
unacceptable.  The proposed bills include lowering the amount of forest
that landowners must maintain, granting farmers amnesty and
exempting them from having to replant areas that were illegally
cleared before 2009. The measures still must be reconciled and
sent to President  Dilma Rousseff  for approval.  Rousseff, elected Brazil’s first woman leader in 2010, made
a campaign pledge to reject such efforts. She also criticized
former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  for not doing enough
to control deforestation.  Failure to veto the legislation would thwart Brazil’s goal
of reducing deforestation by 80 percent by 2020 and hurt the
country’s newfound role as global environmental leader,
according to some analysts.  Rolling back forest protections would be the “exact wrong
message to send to the world,” given the upcoming Rio+20 U.N.
conference, said Riordan Roett, head of Latin American studies
at Johns Hopkins University’s School for Advanced International
Affairs in Washington D.C.  Critics say they will be watching Rousseff closely to see
if she uses her line-item veto power to kill any provisions
granting amnesty to farmers and ranchers who have broken the
law.  Senator Katia Abreu, president of the  Brazilian
Confederation of Agriculture and Livestock , said in November
that Brazil would lose about $100 billion in agricultural output
if lawmakers fail to pass legislation that includes amnesty for
farmers.  Without such a provision, farmers would be forced to
reforest about 70 million hectares (173 million acres) of land
currently growing coffee, oranges and other commodities, she
said. The amnesty and replanting provisions are fair because
many farmers complied with the limits on deforestation, only to
see those restrictions then tightened by decree, Abreu said.  Soybeans, Cattle  Since the 1960s, farmers have helped transform Brazil from
a food importer into one of the world’s largest exporters of
agricultural commodities. Brazil is now the world’s top producer
and exporter of coffee and sugar cane and the second-biggest
exporter of beef and soy after the U.S. Much of that expansion
has been made possible by cutting down the  rain forest , not
always legally.  Pressure in recent years on Brazilian soybean farmers, and
to a lesser extent on cattle ranchers, to stay clear of the
forest prompted a self-imposed industry moratorium.  About seven years ago, soybean production was responsible
for as much as a fourth of deforestation, according to Boucher.
Today, it’s less than 2 percent.  Brazilian Climate Change Secretary Mauro Pires says
Brazil’s strategy to fight the problem is two-pronged.  “On one hand, our effort is focused on curbing illegal,
predatory deforestation through oversight,” he said. “On the
other hand, the effort is aimed at increasing opportunities for
sustainable economic activities such as forest management,
ecotourism and biotechnology.”  One key monitoring tool the Brazilian government is using
in its push to save forestland is satellites, Brazilian lead
climate negotiator Ambassador Andre Correa do Lago said in a
December interview. Data sales and value-added services from
Earth-observation satellites may more than double to $4.5
billion in the decade ending 2020, according to Northern Sky
Research.  By combining hundreds of images from satellite coverage
with software analysis, experts can analyze patterns of
deforestation down to a single tree and calculate the additional
emissions that will stay in the atmosphere without trees to pull
them down.  Climate Change  Greater political emphasis on sustainability helped drive
Brazil’s deforestation rates down as much as other major
efforts, such as government monitoring, pressure from
environmental groups and the possibility of a global carbon
market that pays farmers for saving trees, Boucher said.  That emphasis began with the 2002 election of President
Lula, which marked a “major change” in tone, Boucher said.  Lula, whose second term ended in 2010, called for a
reduction in Amazon deforestation by 80 percent. It’s part of an
effort by Brazil, the fourth largest greenhouse gas emitter, to
slash its contribution by as much as 1.3 billion tons in 2020.
Seventy-five percent of Brazil’s emissions come from
deforestation, which itself is responsible for more than 15
percent of global greenhouse gas emissions.  Brazil has cut emissions 68 percent percent below a 1996-
2005 baseline, the largest reduction of any single country.  “Whether Brazil maintains this leadership could very well
depend on the outcome of this fight over the forest code,”
Stephan Schwartzman, director of tropical forest policy at the
Environmental Defense Fund in  Washington , said in an interview.
“The fate of the largest, last remaining tropical forest in the
world is at stake.”  Read the full Special Report,  click here .
Read more energy & sustainability news,  click here .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Yan in Washington at 
 sophiayan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eric Roston at 
 eroston@bloomberg.net  