-- Brazil Futures Yields Rise as Growth Rally Spurs Inflation Bets
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-13T22:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/brazil-futures-yields-rise-as-growth-rally-spurs-inflation-bets.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures rose for a second day as signs of a global economic
rebound fueled speculation inflation in the Latin American
country may accelerate later this year.  The yield on the contract due in January 2013 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.70 percent. The
real rose 0.3 percent to 1.7922 per dollar, paring an earlier
loss of as much as 1.6 percent after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  refrained from announcing further measures to limit the
currency’s gains in his initial comments in the Senate today.  Stocks jumped after U.S. retail sales grew at the fastest
pace in five months and German investor confidence increased
more than forecast, boosting growth optimism and fueling
speculation the Brazilian central bank may have to moderate the
pace of interest-rate cuts to tame inflation.  “The positive external environment can influence futures
yields,” Mauricio Nakahodo, senior economist at CM Capital
Markets, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “If the rise in
commodities continues, that may be reflected in the pace of
interest-rate cuts.”  Central bankers led by President Alexandre Tombini stepped
up the pace of interest-rate cuts on March 7, cutting the
benchmark overnight rate to 9.75 percent, to help spur growth
and diminish the allure of the country’s fixed-income assets.
Policy makers have lowered the rate 275 basis points since
August.  Real Pares Drop  The real pared earlier losses as signs the global economy
is strengthening overshadowed speculation Mantega will signal
further steps to weaken the currency during his appearance
before the Senate today in Brasilia.  “The market respects Mantega now, just like it respects
Dilma and the central bank,” said Hideaki Iha, a currency
trader at Fair Corretora de Cambio e Valores in Sao Paulo,
referring to Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff . “The external
market got better and the euro reduced losses.”  Brazil ’s main tool for defending itself against an influx
of cheap imports is the administration of its currency rate,
Mantega said in the Senate today.  While Brazil is committed to a floating rate of exchange,
the country is not going to play the “idiot’s role” in the
face of other nations devaluing their currencies, Mantega said
in testimony before the Senate.  Brazil’s real has been the worst performer among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg this month, losing 4.2 percent
after policy makers started stepping up efforts to curb gains. Rousseff pledged last week to take all necessary measures to
protect  Latin America ’s biggest economy from what she dubbed a
“monetary tsunami” unleashed by rich nations seeking to
devalue their currencies.  Foreign Debt Tax  Brazil yesterday extended a 6 percent tax on foreign loans
and bonds issued abroad by local companies to include lending
with a duration as long as five years, the third measure taken
this month to weaken the real.  The tax, which was originally applied to foreign borrowing
of as long as two years, had already been extended on March 1 to
loans and bonds with a duration of three years as policy makers
seek to damp dollar inflows. The central bank the same day
extended the tax to some loans granted to exporters.  Traders are anticipating Tombini will reduce the Selic rate
by 50 basis points at the next monetary policy meeting in April
and to as low as 8.5 percent by July, according to rate-futures
yields.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  