-- Budding Pot Business Needs Legal Banking: Robert Frichtel
-- B y   R o b e r t   F r i c h t e l
-- 2012-03-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/budding-pot-business-needs-legal-banking-robert-frichtel.html
At a time when the country is
trying to create jobs and encourage the growth of small
businesses, why is the Obama administration going to such
lengths to kill a thriving and legitimate industry?  Here’s what’s going on: Although Colorado, where I live, 15
other states and the  District of Columbia  have passed laws
allowing medical use of marijuana, the federal government is
sticking to its outdated, one-size-fits-all policy on drugs.  This was made clear last summer when the  Justice Department 
issued a memo in which it restated that marijuana is still a so-
called Schedule I drug -- the equivalent of heroin or LSD -- and
has no legitimate medical use. In other words, growing and
distributing medical marijuana is a felony under federal law.  The upshot of this is that any bank or credit union doing
business with a medical-marijuana dispensary, even simply by
allowing them a bank account,  is potentially subject  to money-
laundering charges. These are the same class of charges that
apply to genuine criminal activities such as human trafficking,
arms smuggling and prostitution.  Bank Doors Shut  I’ve heard from many of our clients that run medical-
marijuana businesses that banks have had  their federal charters
threatened , have been told that the access to Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. insurance programs could be at risk and have
been informed that individual bank employees may face criminal
prosecution if they opened accounts or allowed existing accounts
to stay open.  With this message from the federal government, banks have
closed accounts summarily. With little or no notice, medical-
marijuana businesses have been told to stop using a bank’s
services and withdraw any deposit balances they have.  Try being the owner of a legal business that does not have
access to the banking system. You can’t accept credit cards
(that service was shut off, too), so all the day’s business is
done in cash. What do you do with the proceeds of the day’s
sales? How do you pay your employees? Payroll-tax withholdings
need to be submitted to the government, and this can only be
done by electronic withdrawal from your business’s bank account.
How do you pay your suppliers?  It has created many unnecessary challenges and expenses for
the industry. And in states where the laws require strict and
detailed accounting of business transactions, compliance becomes
more difficult.  But medical marijuana is a legal business, approved by
voters in  Colorado  in 2000, when the state adopted a
constitutional amendment. Since then, medical marijuana has
flourished and become an industry that contributes $25 million
in sales taxes and fees and employs thousands of people at more
than 600 dispensaries and manufacturers of food and other
products infused with medical marijuana. In Denver County, there
are more medical-marijuana dispensaries  than there are Starbucks
in the state.   When the support businesses are included -- such as
plumbers, electricians, landlords, accountants and lawyers --
it’s easy to see the strong economic prospects for this
industry. And I’m referring to one state. When you include the
15 other states and the District of Columbia, this is  a
multibillion-dollar industry  with the capacity to generate
hundreds of millions of dollars in sales taxes and fees
nationally, and to employ tens of thousands of people.  Access to Banking  There is a possible solution to this industry’s banking
crisis, but it’s got a long way to go. Last year, two members of
Congress -- Representative  Jared Polis  of Colorado and
Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts  -- introduced
legislation to allow state-certified medical marijuana
businesses to have full access to banking services.  While the legislation inches its way through the federal
system, individual states are starting to take action, too. Last
month, a Colorado state senator, Pat Steadman, introduced a bill
that would allow the medical-marijuana businesses in Colorado to
create financial-services cooperatives to supply basic banking
service to the industry. Sadly, this measure failed in
committee, but it’s likely that another attempt for a state-
sponsored solution will be made either here in Colorado or
another state where medical marijuana is legal.  It is unfortunate that these extra measures are needed when
the federal government could easily solve the problem it created
by simply reclassifying marijuana as a Schedule II drug and
taking the pressure -- to avoid medical-marijuana businesses --
off the banking system. The federal government should be working
with the states to allow them to carry out their laws allowing
medical marijuana, not try to push it back underground.  (Robert Frichtel is managing partner of the  Medical
Marijuana Business Exchange . The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Frichtel at   robert@mymmjexchange.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 