-- U.S. Budget Deficit Revised Upward to $1.2 Trillion for 2012
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-03-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/budget-deficit-to-total-1-2-trillion-this-year-cbo-says.html
The  U.S. budget deficit  this year
will be larger than projected while health-care costs aren’t
growing as quickly as anticipated, according to the federal
government.  The budget shortfall for 2012 will be $1.2 trillion, about
$93 billion more than forecast two months ago,  according  to the
nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  The increase is largely attributable to a reduction in
workers’ payroll taxes for the rest of 2012, the cost of which
lawmakers agreed to add to the federal deficit.  The revised estimate means the government will run a
trillion-dollar deficit for the fourth consecutive year, though
the gap will narrow slightly from last year’s $1.3 trillion.  “The fundamental story about the federal budget has not
changed: Although the deficit is starting to shrink, it remains
very large by historical standards,” the agency said yesterday
in a report.  House Republicans  are preparing to unveil their fiscal year
2013 budget plan next week. A group of Republicans are pushing
for an election-year budget fight by demanding big cuts in the
spending bills needed to fund federal agencies for the fiscal
year that begins Oct. 1.  That could raise the specter of a government shutdown
shortly before voters head to the polls in November because
Democrats say it would upend a budget deal struck last year with
the administration.  Government Shutdowns  “I guess they love government shutdowns, or at least the
threat of them,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, told reporters yesterday. “Our economy cannot afford
another one of these senseless demonstrations by the Tea party.
The American people are sick of these manufactured crises.”  The CBO  also said  it expects the coverage provisions of
President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul to cost about $50
billion less than anticipated, in part because health-care costs
aren’t increasing as quickly as anticipated.  According to the report, private-insurance premiums rose by
8.4 percent annually between 2000 and 2005. In the subsequent
five years, it said, costs slowed, increasing by 5.3 percent
annually. In 2010, the CBO said, costs increased by 3.7 percent.  That prompted the agency to ratchet down its assumptions
about future costs, with premiums projected to increase by 5.7
percent annually over the next decade.  It also predicted the health-care overhaul won’t cover as
many people as anticipated, forecasting that 93 percent of
Americans would have coverage by 2016, down from the 95 percent
it had previously predicted. That’s partly because budget
forecasters are assuming the economy will grow more slowly than
anticipated, which means more people would be out of work and
without insurance.  This year’s larger deficit is primarily the result of a
vote last month to extend an expiring 2-percentage-point cut in
Social Security taxes for the rest of 2012. Lawmakers couldn’t
agree on what to cut in the budget to make room for the  tax cut ,
so they added the nearly $100 billion cost to the deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  