-- Business Inventories in U.S. Rose More Than Forecast in January
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-03-13T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/business-inventories-in-u-s-expand-more-than-forecast-on-auto-stockpiles.html
Businesses in the U.S. increased
 inventories  in January at a faster pace than projected, led by
the biggest jump in automobile stockpiles in more than a year.  The 0.7 percent rise followed a revised 0.6 percent advance
the prior month that was larger than previously reported,
Commerce Department data showed today in Washington. The median
projection in a Bloomberg News survey called for a 0.5 percent
gain. Sales climbed 0.4 percent.  Inventory swings may diminish in the first half of 2012
after helping the economy grow in the fourth quarter at the
fastest pace in more than a year. Another report today showed
retail purchases in February rose at the fastest pace in five
months, led by auto dealers and clothing stores, indicating
companies may have been preparing for improving sales.  “A lot of it is driven by the  auto industry , whose
production is ramping higher to meet a pickup in demand,”  Sal Guatieri , a senior U.S. economist at BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto, said before the report. “Inventories are no longer at
the lean levels they were coming out of the recession.”  The median forecast for business inventories was based on a
Bloomberg survey of economists. The December figure was revised
from a 0.4 percent gain originally reported.  Retail sales  rose 1.1 percent last month, matching the
 median  forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg and
following a 0.6 percent increase in January that was larger than
previously estimated, another report from the Commerce Department
showed today. The improvement in demand was broad-based as 11 of
13 industry categories showed gains, including auto dealers and
clothing stores.  Retail Stockpiles  Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s report on
stockpiles not previously released, increased 1.1 percent, the
biggest gain since June 2010, while sales rose 0.5 percent.  At the current sales pace, businesses had enough goods on
hand to last 1.27 months, the same as in December. The last time
the ratio was lower was in March 2011.  The economy grew at a 3 percent annual pace in the fourth
quarter after a 1.8 percent gain in the prior three months, the
Commerce Department reported Feb. 29. The growth rate excluding a
jump in inventories was 1.1 percent. Stockpiles were rebuilt at a
$54.3 billion annual pace, adding 1.9 percentage points to
growth.  The surge in stockpiles last quarter followed a reduction in
the July through September period amid mounting concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis and the U.S. credit-rating downgrade would
restrain demand at a time the U.S. labor market was struggling to
pick up.  More Hiring  Employers in the U.S. boosted payrolls more than forecast in
February, the Labor Department said last week, indicating
companies are growing more optimistic about the expansion. The
jobless rate held at 8.3 percent.  Stockpiles at auto and parts dealers jumped 2.6 percent in
January, the most since July 2010, today’s report showed.  Auto dealers may be among retailers benefiting from the
improvement in employment, prompting the ramp-up in stockpiles.
Sales of cars and light trucks rose 6.4 percent in February from
the prior month to reach a 15 million annual pace, the highest
reading since February 2008, according to figures from Ward’s
Automotive Group.  New Britain , Connecticut-based  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK) ,
a global provider of power tools, is among companies that have
become more proactive in managing inventory.  “Your vendors, your manufacturing locations and your
customers and the forecasts that go back and forth between those
different entities are in sync and quickly respond to changes in
the environment,” Chief Financial Officer Donald Allan told an
industry conference last week. “And as a result, you don’t have
large inventory levels or too little of inventory because they
are very automated and they are in sync.”  Factory inventories, which comprise about 40 percent of the
total, rose 0.6 percent in January, Commerce Department data
showed on March 5. Wholesale inventories, which make up about 30
percent of all stockpiles, rose 0.4 percent, Commerce Department
data showed on March 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  