-- Buy U.S. Stocks Gaining From China Growth: Morgan Stanley
-- B y   A n d r e w   T h e e n
-- 2012-03-13T17:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/buy-u-s-stocks-tied-to-china-growth-morgan-stanley.html
U.S. stocks like  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and
Viacom Inc. that benefit from growth in Chinese markets are
attractive investments if the world’s second-largest economy
expands more than forecast this year, Morgan Stanley said.  AON Corp. (AON) ,  Leggett & Platt Inc. (LEG)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) 
shares could also rise if the Chinese economy beats estimates,
according to  Adam Parker , the New York-based U.S. equity
strategist at Morgan Stanley. He also recommended a group of
more than 30 large-capitalization  U.S. stocks  and American
depositary receipts of about 32 Chinese  companies  in a note
dated yesterday.  Wen Jiabao ,  China ’s premier, cut the country’s economic
growth target for 2012 to 7.5 percent from 8 percent last week.
Export-growth momentum appears to be rising and property
transactions in major cities may be increasing, Helen Qiao,
Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd.’s Hong Kong-based chief economist, said
in the note. China’s local governments are likely to ease
implementation of measures restricting growth in the housing
market in the first half of this year, she said.  “We looked for U.S. stocks that have exposure to the
Chinese market above and beyond the impact” on the American
equity market, Parker wrote. “We continue to believe that the
risks are skewed to the negative for the U.S. stock market.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is valued at 14.3 times
profit, an 11 percent  premium  over the price-to-earnings ratio
of the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  U.S. companies from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  to  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  are also among those that
Parker recommends as potential beneficiaries if China’s growth
beats forecasts, Parker said. Baidu Inc.,  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and
PetroChina Co. are included in the list of China ADRs to buy,
the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Theen in New York at 
 atheen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  