-- CaixaBank, Civica Study Combining in Spanish Bank Overhaul
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-03-13T12:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/caixabank-civica-study-combining-in-spanish-bank-overhaul-1-.html
CaixaBank (CABK)  SA, Spain’s fourth-
biggest lender, is studying combining with  Banca Civica SA (BCIV) , a
former savings bank, as part of an overhaul of the nation’s
financial industry. Civica shares surged.  CaixaBank, based in  Barcelona , and Banca Civica, based in
Madrid, are conducting due diligence with a view to a possible
deal, the two lenders said in separate regulatory filings today.
They are both also considering other mergers, and no final
decision has been reached, they said.  Spain’s government is encouraging lenders into a second
round of consolidation as it requires them to recognize deeper
losses on real estate accumulated during the property crash.
CaixaBank Chairman Isidro Faine expects a “wave of mergers,”
he said on Jan. 27 as lenders seek to cut costs and boost scale
in an economy where lending is shrinking at a record pace.  “The new regulation has opened up a window to
consolidation in the banking industry,” Daragh Quinn, an
analyst at Nomura International in  Madrid , said in a phone
interview today. “One of the smaller domestic banks that’s
under pressure to make additional provisions for real estate is
going to be looking at its options.”  Lenders have until the end of May to present their merger
plans, according to the decree passed on Feb. 3. The law
tightens rules on provisioning and gives banks that combine more
time to recognize losses.  Civica, CaixaBank Rise  Shares in Banca Civica, rose as much as 5.6 percent to 2.45
euros after ABC newspaper reported the banks were close to a
deal. The shares rose 3.3 percent at 1:10 p.m. in Madrid, while
CaixaBank rose 0.6 percent. Shares in  Bankia SA (BKIA) ,  Spain ’s third-
biggest bank, fell as much as 4.6 percent as investors bet
today’s news makes it less likely it’ll be taken over by
CaixaBank, Nuria Alvarez, an analyst at Renta 4 Banco, said in a
phone interview.  Acquiring Banca Civica would add a lender with 72 billion
euros ($94 billion) of  assets  and 1,394 branches to CaixaBank’s
270 billion euros in assets and 5,196 branches.  Civica, a lender formed from the merger of four savings
banks that last year raised 600 million euros in an initial
public offering, has to make provisions of about 575 million
euros because of the government’s order to banks to clean up
their real estate. The bank is set to lose 456 million euros
this year, according to estimates by Nomura.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  