-- Cameron Says Afghans Won’t Have Perfect Democracy When NATO Goes
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-03-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/cameron-says-afghans-won-t-have-perfect-democracy-when-nato-goes.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said  Afghanistan  will still face huge difficulties when NATO
troops leave at the end of 2014, as he traveled to the U.S. to
discuss the Afghan conflict with President  Barack Obama .  The premier told reporters on board a flight to  Washington 
yesterday there was a desire for “an endgame” in Afghanistan,
where North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led forces have been
fighting since 2001 after invading in the wake of al-Qaeda’s
Sept. 11 terror attacks on  New York  and Washington.  “I accept it won’t be a perfect democracy; there will be
huge development problems,” Cameron said. “What I define as
doing the job is leaving Afghanistan looking after its own
security, not being a haven for terror, without the involvement
of foreign troops. That should be our goal.”  More detail on the timetable for withdrawal will come at a
NATO summit in  Chicago  in May. The U.K. is aiming to have its
troops step away from their lead combat role by mid-2013, moving
to support and training operations as Afghanistan’s own soldiers
and police take responsibility for security.  “I think people want an endgame,” the prime minister
said. “They want to know that our troops are going to come
home, they have been there a very long time. So that the British
public, our troops and the Afghan government, frankly, know
there’s an end to this.”  Six British soldiers were killed when their armored vehicle
was blown up in southern Afghanistan last week, the biggest loss
of life in a single enemy action since the start of the Afghan
war for the 9,500-strong U.K. contingent.  Further strain has been placed on the international mission
by the killing on March 11 of at least 16 Afghan civilians,
allegedly by a U.S. Army staff sergeant. Obama pledged yesterday
to “spare no effort” to fully investigate the killings.  Cameron and Obama, who meet at the White House today, will
also discuss how to increase pressure on Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad amid his troops’ bloody crackdown on rebels in the city
of Homs. Russia and  China  have blocked United Nations Security
Council action against Assad.  “We’re all frustrated by  Syria ,” Cameron said. “What’s
happening in Homs is completely appalling. I’m endlessly kicking
the tires and asking what else can be done.”  The premier said Britain would be willing to accept a
change of leadership within the Syrian regime if it brought
peace. “The shortest way of ending the violence is a transition
where Assad goes,” he said. “Transition at the top rather than
revolution at the bottom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Washington at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 