-- Capula’s Systemic Trading Head Dai Is Said to Leave Fund
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-03-13T17:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/capula-investment-s-systemic-trading-head-dai-is-said-to-leave-hedge-fund.html
Qiang Dai, who oversees systematic
investing at London-based Capula Investment Management LLP,
plans to leave the $13 billion hedge fund to pursue personal
interests, according to a person brief on his decision.  Dai, 45, is leaving after serving as a partner at Capula
for more than six years, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the company is private. About 1 percent of
Capula’s assets are invested in systematic trading, which
typically use computers to find profitable patterns within
financial data.  Capula, founded in 2005 by Yan Huo, raised more than $4
billion from investors last year. Its flagship  Global Relative
Value Fund Ltd. (CAPULAD)  primarily trades  government bonds  and currencies
and gained 6.2 percent last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Relative value investing typically involves spotting
situations in which two securities trade outside their normal
range and wagering that the discrepancy will fade over time.  Dai joined Capula in 2005 as head of market research and
risk before becoming the hedge fund’s chief risk offer in 2009,
according to his LinkedIn page. In December 2010, Capula
appointed him head of systematic trading.  Dai didn’t return a phone call seeking comment. Jonathan
Gasthalter, a Capula spokesman, declined to comment.  He received a Ph.D. in finance and another in physics from
 Stanford University  near Palo Alto,  California , according to the
LinkedIn page. He taught finance at New York University’s Stern
School of Business and at the University of  North Carolina  at
 Chapel Hill  before joining Capula, the LinkedIn page says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  