-- Carlyle Owners Took $398.5 Million Payout With Debt Before IPO
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-03-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/carlyle-owners-took-400-million-tax-deferred-payout-before-ipo-with-debt.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , in a transaction
nine months before it filed to go public, saddled itself with
debt to pay owners including  William Conway ,  Daniel D’Aniello 
and  David Rubenstein  a $398.5 million tax-deferred dividend.  The private equity firm borrowed $500 million from Abu
Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co. in December 2010, saying it
would use part of that to expand investment products. Instead,
it paid out almost 80 percent of the money to existing owners,
according to regulatory filings. Separately, the Washington-
based firm negotiated bank credit giving it the option to
distribute an additional $400 million prior to its initial
public offering, lending agreements  filed  last month show.  The deals, which echo the dividend recapitalization private
equity managers use to extract cash from the companies they
acquire, leave Carlyle’s future shareholders with the cost of
servicing the debt. Assuming Carlyle holds its IPO by the end of
June, Mubadala will have earned a return in excess of 50
percent, including a $200 million equity stake the owners gave
away to obtain a loan that lasted about a year and a half.  “It begs the question, ‘Why would you do that?’ ” said
Matthew Pieniazek, the president of Darling Consulting Group, an
adviser to banks in Newburyport,  Massachusetts . “IPOs are not
guaranteed. They were willing to give up some of the upside for
the certainty of” a distribution.  Chris Ullman , a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to comment.  By financing the dividends with debt, Carlyle’s founders
can receive the full amount without facing an immediate tax
bill, and without having to sell shares in the IPO. Under
Internal Revenue Code regulations for partnerships, the owners
can defer paying taxes on the distribution until the debt is
retired, said Allan Weiner, a partner in the Washington office
of the law firm Kelley Drye & Warren LLP.  Dividend Recaps  “They are essentially creating a distribution without
paying taxes,” Weiner said. “Presumably, because it is debt,
they are burdening the existing entity.”  Carlyle has taken advantage of borrowed money in the past
to pay its fund investors dividends before taking holdings
public. So-called dividend recaps were used when Dunkin’ Brands
Group Inc. borrowed $1.25 billion in 2010 to pay $500 million to
owners Carlyle, Bain Capital LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP.
Dunkin’ went public last year in a $486 million share sale.  Six months after the buyout of Hertz Corp. in 2005, the car
rental company used a $1 billion loan to pay a dividend to its
new owners, Carlyle and Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC.  First Investors  Carlyle, founded in 1987, is the second-biggest private
equity firm, with $148 billion in assets as of Sept. 30,
including stakes in companies such as Dunkin’ Brands and
Nielsen Holdings N.V. Its three founders received a combined
$413 million last year, mostly from distributions. Apart from
the founders and Mubadala, its owners include the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers.  The firm found some of its first investors in the  Middle
East , including the Saudi royal family and owners of the Saudi
Binladin Group, the Jeddah-based construction company founded
by Osama bin Laden’s father, Mohammed. Carlyle returned the
family’s money after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  The firm has weighed an IPO since at least 2007 when larger
competitor  Blackstone (BX)  Group LP went public. As financial markets
started to collapse, Carlyle instead agreed to sell a 7.5
percent stake to Mubadala, an investment vehicle owned by the
Abu Dhabi government, for $1.35 billion in September 2007.
Mubadala got a 10 percent discount and received protection
against a drop in the value of its holdings.  Mubadala’s Stake  Mubadala made the second investment in Carlyle in December
2010, buying $500 million in debt convertible into Carlyle
stock at a 7.5 percent discount to the IPO price. Carlyle  agreed 
to pay an interest rate of 7.25 percent and give Mubadala a 2
percent equity stake valued at about $200 million, an expense
booked as an “upfront cost” to secure the debt financing,
according to the firm’s registration statement with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Carlyle refinanced half of that debt in October, a month
after filing to go public and securing a bigger credit line from
its banks. Carlyle borrowed $265.5 million under the expanded
credit agreement to retire $250 million face amount of the
notes. Carlyle paid Mubadala a $10 million premium, a fee that
is often assessed when bonds are retired ahead of time, and $5.5
million of accrued interest.  The private equity firm may  repay  the balance of Mubadala’s
debt before the IPO, according to a person familiar with
Carlyle’s plans who asked not to be identified because the
matter is private. If it doesn’t, Mubadala would be entitled to
convert the debt into Carlyle stock at a 7.5 percent discount to
the IPO price.  ‘Big Win’  Private companies typically pay interest rates of about 13
percent to 14 percent when taking out so-called mezzanine loans
that rank behind senior debt, such as bank loans, when it comes
time to being repaid, according to  James Hill , who heads the
private equity practice of the law firm Benesch LLP in
 Cleveland .  While the interest Carlyle is paying is low in comparison,
the equity stake makes it expensive for current owners. Carlyle
has about 100 partners who own a piece of the company. The three
founders own more than half.  “As long as Carlyle goes public, it is a pretty big win
for” Mubadala, Hill said in an interview. “If they hadn’t gone
public, it wouldn’t have been as big a win because you own two
percent of a privately owned management company and who knows
what that is worth over time.”  IPO Setback  The sale was subject to Calpers waiving pre-emptive rights
that it received under a February 2001 agreement to invest in
Carlyle, according to a Feb. 14 SEC filing. Calpers also had to
consent to the deal between Carlyle and Mubadala, the filing
shows.  Carlyle’s previous IPO plans had been set back in 2007 when
a publicly traded  credit fund  sponsored by the firm fell victim
to the housing crisis. Carlyle, which unsuccessfully tried to
rescue the fund, had obtained an $875 million credit line at
that time from a banking consortium led by Citigroup.  Carlyle has agreed to pledge 70 percent of the firm’s
quarterly management fees, along with the carried interest of
its partners, as collateral, according to the most recent
version of the loan agreement, filed with the SEC last month.  Carlyle entered into additional collateral agreements in
December 2008, involving U.S. and U.K. bank accounts under the
name of Carlyle Investment Management LLC. The firm reported a
net loss of $514 million that year, according to the IPO filing.  Founders’ Commitments  After Carlyle filed to go public in September of last year,
its lenders -- Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. -- agreed to increase the revolving credit
line to $750 million from a prior limit of $150 million.
According to a copy of the borrowing agreement, revised again in
December, the banks will no longer require the management and
carried interest fees that Carlyle and its partners pledged as
collateral once the IPO is completed and Mubadala is repaid.  All three banks were awarded top roles managing Carlyle’s
share sale. Officials for the banks declined to comment.  The Mubadala financing in 2010 helped Carlyle distribute
$787.8 million in cash to its top executives that year, up from
$215.6 million in 2009 and $253.9 million in 2008, according to
regulatory filings.  Carlyle didn’t give a reason for the dividend payout. Its
founders were among senior professionals who had committed to
contributing $1.2 billion to the firm’s buyout and other funds
as of Sept. 30, according to the IPO documents. Such commitments
can sometimes prove burdensome for private equity executives,
said  David Miller , a tax attorney at Cadwalader, Wickersham &
Taft LLP in  New York .  ‘Managing Cash’  “It was not infrequent during the recession that private
equity managers had to draw on credit lines because they had
commitments,” Miller said.  In addition, when Carlyle’s buyout funds sell portfolio
companies, either through direct sales to another suitor or
through IPOs, the firm’s partners must recognize income for tax
purposes, even though they may not get any of the actual cash.
Instead they must wait until outside investors in Carlyle funds
have gotten all of their capital back plus a preferred return of
8 to 9 percent, according to the firm’s IPO filing.  “Managing the cash in a private equity arrangement is a
little more of a challenge than in a typical hedge fund that has
liquid assets,” said Jim Browne, a partner at Strasburger &
Price LLP, a Dallas-based  law firm  that specializes in general
tax planning.  ‘Little Kicker’  The stock grant that Mubadala received when it bought
subordinated notes from Carlyle in 2010 raised its holdings to
9.5 percent. Carlyle’s valuation of the 2 percent equity stake
assumed that the buyout company was worth $10 billion, according
to the filing. The purchase price Mubadala paid for its initial
investment in 2007 implied a valuation of about $20 billion for
Carlyle at the time.  The terms for Mubadala’s 2010 investment “could simply be
a way of giving them a little kicker for what both parties knew
was an overvalued equity infusion three years earlier,” said
Pieniazek.  Shares of Blackstone, which is based in New York, have lost
half of their value since they were first sold in the 2007
initial offering at $31 each.  Following Carlyle’s offering, Mubadala will be restricted
from selling parts of its stake for 12 to 24 months, according
to Carlyle’s registration statement. The Abu Dhabi company, the
second-largest Carlyle owner after the founders, is also
restricted from holding a stake bigger than 19.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  