-- Cathay Financial Gains on China Investor Search: Taipei Mover
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2012-03-13T08:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/cathay-financial-gains-on-china-investor-search-taipei-mover.html
Cathay Financial Holding Co. (2882) ,
Taiwan’s largest publicly traded financial holding company, rose
the most in more than two months on potential investment
negotiations with Chinese banks.  The  stock  climbed by the daily limit, rising 6.9 percent to
NT$34.90, the most since Dec. 23. It was the biggest gainer on
the MSCI Taiwan Index. Volume reached 54 million shares, more
than triple Cathay Financial’s three-month daily average.  “We are looking for partners who will help us to expand
our operations in  China , especially those with nationwide
networks,” Alan Lee, a spokesman for the Taipei-based company,
said today. Lee declined to say how many or which Chinese
lenders the company is in talks with.  Taiwan and  China (CHRRDEP)  signed an agreement in 2010 to cut tariffs
and increase access to banking, insurance and securities
industries after relations improved with the 2008 election of
President Ma Ying-jeou. Finance companies in Taiwan are asking
the domestic regulator to lift the 5 percent limit on ownership
by a single Chinese investor to help boost business overseas.  “Right now, it isn’t enough to attract Chinese lenders as
they can’t do much with a 5 percent stake,” said Eric Chang, an
analyst at Jih Sun Securities Co. in Taipei. “Taiwan financial
companies want a Chinese partner to help them to make inroads in
the mainland market as they lack the distribution networks.”  Taiwan  is urging its financial industry to consolidate. The
market now hosts 37 domestic banks, 28 foreign lenders and more
than 300 credit associations competing to serve 23 million
people.  The Economic Daily News earlier reported that Cathay
Financial is seeking cross-shareholdings with Chinese banks,
citing Chairman Tsai Hong-tu.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  