-- CEE Exchange Open to ‘Merger of Equal’ Warsaw Talks, Buhl Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-03-13T17:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/cee-exchange-open-to-merger-of-equal-warsaw-talks-buhl-says.html
The CEE Stock Exchange Group, which
includes bourses in Vienna, Budapest,  Prague  and Ljubljana, said
it’s open to holding “merger of equals” talks with the  Warsaw
Stock Exchange (GPW) , its biggest rival.  “We would be open to doing something with Warsaw though
they see us a competitor,” Michael Buhl, the Vienna bourse’s
co-chief executive officer said in an interview in London. “We
would be interested in a stronger cooperation up to a possible
merger. A merger of equals ultimately would make sense,” he
added.  The two exchanges are vying for influence in the region.
Austria’s Wiener Boerse AG in 2008 bought stakes in exchanges in
Ljubljana, Budapest and Prague and the bourses will eventually
all run on the same trading system, supplied by  Deutsche Boerse
AG. (DB1)  The Warsaw exchange, which listed its stock in 2010,
dominates listings in the region.  “They won’t be complete without us and we won’t be
complete without them,” Buhl said. “It makes sense, there are
a lot of synergies. Together we really would be central and
eastern Europe. But it remains wishful thinking for the time
being.”  There are at present “no concrete talks, unfortunately,”
he said.  Last year, in a populist outcry, antitrust concern and
 volatile markets  prevented the completion of more than $37
billion in announced transactions, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on deals valued at $1 billion or more.  European Union regulators on Feb. 1 vetoed Deutsche Boerse
AG and  NYSE Euronext’s (NYX)  plan to create the world’s biggest
exchange after concluding the merger would hurt competition.
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
abandoned an unsolicited bid for NYSE Euronext after the U.S.
Justice Department threatened to sue. London Stock Exchange
Group Plc’s effort to take over Canada’s TMX Group Inc was
thwarted and  Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s (SGX)  $8.8 billion bid for ASX
Ltd. collapsed after Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said the
deal wasn’t in the national interest.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 