-- Chicago Bulls Hand New York Knicks Their Sixth Straight Defeat
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-03-13T10:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/chicago-bulls-hand-new-york-knicks-their-sixth-straight-defeat.html
The  Chicago Bulls  made it 10 wins
in 11 games and handed the  New York Knicks  their sixth straight
defeat, pouring more water on the fireworks that accompanied the
emergence of point guard Jeremy Lin last month.  The Bulls, who lead the National Basketball Association
with a 35-9 record, won 104-99 at the United Center in Chicago
last night. New York, which is winless this month and has lost
six straight games on the road, dropped to 18-24.  “It’s a hard situation to be in right now,” New York’s
leading scorer, Carmelo Anthony, told reporters. “Losing
basketball games the way we’re losing, it’s kind of hard to stay
upbeat.”  New York won its first seven games after Harvard University
graduate Lin began running the offense on Feb. 4. His play
boosted national interest in the Knicks, creating the phenomenon
known as Linsanity. Since then, the Knicks are 3-9, leaving them
in danger of missing the playoffs. The current stretch ties the
team’s longest-losing streak this season.  The loss dropped the Knicks into a tie for the eighth and
final playoff place in the Eastern Conference with the  Milwaukee
Bucks , who won 105-99 against the  New Jersey Nets  last night to
improve to 18-24.  “We’re a much better team than being the eighth seed,”
forward Amar’e Stoudemire said. “We don’t feel great about our
position.”  The Knicks are 5-9 since Stoudemire returned from a four-
game absence to mourn the death of his brother, and 2-8 since
Anthony recovered from a groin injury.  Anthony and Stoudemire sat out the fourth quarter of a home
loss to the  Philadelphia 76ers  two days ago, after which fans
booed the Knicks off the court and chanted for coach  Mike D’Antoni  to be fired.  Tougher Games  Six of the seven games New York won during its undefeated
run in February came against teams with losing records. In the
12 subsequent games, eight opponents have had winning records.
During the win streak, Lin averaged 24.4 points. Since then, his
average is 18 points.  Lin didn’t play in a 105-102 defeat to  Chicago  at Madison
Square Garden in New York on Feb. 2 when  Derrick Rose  led the
visitors with 32 points and 13 assists. Last night, Rose had 32
points and seven assists.  New York led by two points after the first and second
quarters last night, during which there were seven lead changes.
There were another 11 lead changes in the third, with the Bulls
opening a seven-point lead halfway through the quarter and the
Knicks recovering to trail by one entering the  final period.  Last Minute  After Chicago pushed its lead to 99-90 with 54 seconds
remaining, Tyson Chandler scored on a layup and Anthony added a
3-pointer on his second field-goal attempt of the quarter.  The Knicks wouldn’t get any closer, as Lin finished with 15
points and eight assists. Stoudemire, who scored 34 points and
had 11 rebounds against Chicago last month, scored 20 points,
while Anthony contributed 21.  New York  hosts the Portland Trail Blazers (20-21) tomorrow
and the  Indiana Pacers  (23-16) two days later. Chicago tomorrow
hosts the  Miami Heat  (31-9) before facing Portland at home on
March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 