-- China’s Stocks Gain, Erasing Losses, on Policy Support
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-13T07:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/china-s-stocks-gain-erasing-losses-on-policy-support-outlook.html
China’s stocks  rose after Deutsche
Bank AG and Nomura Holdings Inc. lifted their estimates for the
country’s economic expansion amid speculation the government
will act to spur growth.  China Shipping Development Co. (600026)  and China Shipping Container
Lines Co. paced gains by trade-related companies on expectations
the government will halt appreciation in the yuan to bolster
exports. PetroChina Co. added 0.9 percent after the National
Business Daily said fuel prices may be raised this week. China
Shenhua Energy Co. advanced among coal producers on speculation
seasonal maintenance of the country’s major rail link will boost
prices of the fuel.  “The market needs a catalyst such as a cut to banks’
reserve ratios to extend this year’s gains,”  Li Jun , a
strategist at Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai, said by
phone today. “If we don’t see any new policies, the market will
be stuck in this range.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 20.94 points, or 0.9
percent, to 2,455.80 at the close, erasing an earlier 0.3
percent loss. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose 1 percent to 2,681.07. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 0.3 percent in  New York 
yesterday.  The Shanghai gauge has climbed 11 percent in 2012 following
two years of losses on speculation the central bank will add to
a Feb. 18 cut in  reserve requirements  to halt a slowdown in
economic growth. Stocks in the index trade at 10.1 times
estimated profit, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on
Jan. 6,  weekly data  compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Growth Targets  Deutsche Bank boosted its forecast for  China ’s growth this
year to 8.6 percent from 8.3 percent while Nomura raised the
estimate to 8.2 percent from 7.9 percent.  The broader economy is more insulated from real-estate risk
than expected and small businesses saw an improvement in the
operating environment in past months,  Jun Ma , chief economist at
Deutsche Bank, wrote in a note to clients.  The central bank may cut  interest rates  as soon as this
month because a reserve-ratio cut alone would “primarily boost
loan supply not loan demand,” Nomura analysts Zhang Zhiwei and
Wendy Chen wrote in a note dated yesterday.  The move came even after the government lowered its 2012
economic growth target to 7.5 percent on March 5 from 8 percent
over the past seven years.  About 14.6 billion shares changed hands in the  Shanghai 
Composite yesterday, or 21 percent higher than the daily average
this year. Thirty-day  volatility  on the gauge was at 14.77
today, the lowest level since May.  Currency Impact  China Shipping, a unit of China’s second-biggest sea-cargo
group, added 1.1 percent to 6.62 yuan. China Shipping Container,
the country’s second-largest carrier of sea-cargo boxes, gained
1 percent to 2.96 yuan, rebounding from a three-week low.  The yuan slumped yesterday as officials weakened the
 reference rate  after the government reported the nation’s
biggest trade deficit in at least 22 years. Moderating inflation
and  Europe ’s faltering export demand may encourage the
government to loosen credit and pause on currency gains, with
the yuan down 0.2 percent this year against the dollar after
climbing 4.5 percent in 2011.  The yuan traded at 6.3250 per dollar at 3:20 p.m. in
Shanghai, compared with 6.3265 yesterday, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. It dropped to the weakest level
yesterday since Jan. 31. The currency can move as much as 0.5
percent either side of the daily fixing.  Overseas Investment  Separately, China may double the investment quota under the
qualified foreign institutional investor, or QFII, program from
the current $30 billion, after the National People’s Congress
ends this week, Sina.com reported yesterday, citing market
speculation. China may also lower entry requirements for QFII,
Sina.com said, without providing details.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  climbed 0.8 percent today on
optimism euro-area finance chiefs will complete a second Greek
bailout this week. Euro-area finance ministers gather in
Brussels to sign off on a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) second
package for  Greece  as they focus on  Spain ’s budget-cutting
efforts and Portugal’s aid program.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads
the group of euro-region finance ministers, said he had “no
doubt” that the package would be approved and he expected a
final decision on March 14.  PetroChina, the nation’s largest energy company, climbed
0.9 percent to 10.37 yuan.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) 
advanced 0.9 percent to 7.55 yuan.  Energy Prices  Fuel prices may be raised by 400 yuan ($63) to 500 yuan a
ton, the National Business Daily reported today, citing Han
Jingyuan, an analyst at JYD Online Co., a commodity e-commerce
platform.  China, the world’s second-largest oil consumer, boosted net
crude imports to a record last month to meet rising demand as
farmers prepare for the agricultural planting season and the
government adds to emergency stockpiles.  Net purchases from overseas increased to 5.87 million
barrels a day last month, according to Bloomberg calculations
from data on the website of the Beijing-based General
Administration of Customs yesterday.  Shenhua (601088) , the nation’s largest coal producer, rose 1.4
percent to 27.15 yuan. China Coal Energy Co., the second
largest, added 0.6 percent to 9.64 yuan. Datong Coal Industry
Co., the third biggest, advanced 1.2 percent to 14.27 yuan.  The Daqin railway, which carries a third of the nation’s
rail deliveries of coal, will shut for maintenance next month,
according to the Qinhuangdao Seaborne Coal Market website. The
link will be closed for three hours a day for 25 days from April
3 to 27, according to the statement.  “Qinhuangdao price should bottom out soon and Daqin
railway maintenance could provide price support,” Citigroup
Inc. analysts led by Mark Liinamaa wrote in a report.
“Favorable summer demand is approaching.”  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  