-- China Seeks ‘Breakthroughs’ in Developing Shale-Gas Resources
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-13T04:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/china-seeks-breakthroughs-in-developing-shale-gas-resources.html
China , holder of the world’s
biggest shale-gas resources, is gauging reserves and acquiring
exploration expertise as it seeks “breakthroughs” in
developing the unconventional fuel in the 10 years ending 2025.  The foundation for using gas found in shale formations will
be laid by 2015, Liu Tienan, head of the National Energy
Administration, said in Beijing today while attending a session
of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, the
country’s top political advisory body.  China, which has yet to produce shale gas commercially,
aims to triple the use of natural gas by 2020 to 10 percent of
energy consumption to curb pollution. The country plans to start
developing shale-gas resources by 2015, and accelerate its
extraction by the end of the decade, the Ministry of Land and
Resources said on March 1.  PetroChina Co. (857) , the country’s largest energy producer, has
opened a few wells in southwestern Sichuan province and output
has been “OK,” said Liu, who is also vice chairman of the
National Development & Reform Commission, China’s top economic
planning agency.  China began shale-gas exploration in December 2009 by
drilling the first well, Wei 201, in Sichuan, China National
Petroleum Corp., the parent of Hong Kong-listed PetroChina, said
on July 19. CNPC agreed in June to form a venture with  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to improve its drilling efficiency after taking
11 months to complete the country’s first shale well.  The nation needs to boost cooperation with foreign
companies to develop its unconventional gas resources, Liu was
cited by CNPC in July as saying.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest
offshore energy explorer, plans to increase investments in North
American shale projects to acquire technology to develop
domestic fields, Chairman Wang Yilin said on March 5.  Shale-Gas Auctions  China plans to produce 6.5 billion cubic meters a year by
2015, and 80 billion by 2020, Zhang Dawei, deputy head of the
Strategic Research Center at the land ministry, said in October,
citing a draft of a national program.  The government will hold one or two auctions of shale-gas
blocks this year, the land ministry said on March 1, without
giving details.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  and Henan
Provincial Coal Seam Gas Development and Utilization Co. won the
rights in June to explore two areas.  Sinopec, as China Petroleum is known, recorded a “high”
industrial flow rate of shale gas at a test well at its Yuanba
field in Sichuan, parent China Petrochemical Corp. said on March
8. The well produced 507,000 cubic meters a day, it said.  China’s shale formations may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet
(36 trillion cubic meters) of technically recoverable gas, or 12
times its conventional gas deposits, the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said in April last year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  