-- Christie Approval at Record High as Voters Cite State Direction
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-03-13T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/christie-approval-at-record-high-as-voters-cite-state-direction.html
Republican Governor  Chris Christie ,
entering the second half of his first term, remains at record-
high approval ratings among  New Jersey (STONJ1)  voters as he presses
lawmakers for a 10 percent income-tax cut, a survey shows.  The governor has the state “headed in the right
direction,” say 51 percent in a survey released today, a 10-
year high, according to  Peter Woolley , the Fairleigh Dickinson
PublicMind poll director. Christie’s job performance won
approval from 54 percent of the registered voters questioned, up
from 53 percent in January and matching a record in September.  “He probably should hold up a champagne glass and make a
toast -- these are really good numbers,” Woolley said by
telephone. “It’s really amazing when you consider that these
sustained approval ratings have been through dramatic budget
times, cuts at all levels and in a state where Republicans hold
a distinct minority.”  The governor’s approval rating has dropped each year since
he took office in January 2010 coincident with the start of
annual debates over taxes and spending, according to previous
polls from the school in Madison,  New Jersey . Lawmakers are set
to begin debating his $32.1 billion budget proposal for the
fiscal year that starts in July.  Christie’s fiscal 2013 spending plan, introduced Feb. 21,
counts on a 7.3 percent gain in  tax revenue , which would be the
most since before the recession began in December 2007. The
governor said the state can afford a rate rollback because its
“fiscal house is in order.”  Tax Debate  Democrats, who control both legislative chambers, have said
Christie’s plan favors the wealthy and have introduced competing
plans they say would ease the state’s property-tax burden.
Residential property taxes averaged $7,759 in 2011, according to
state data. Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a West Deptford
Democrat, has proposed giving residents a 10 percent property-
levy credit on their tax returns instead of a rate reduction.  Assembly Majority Leader  Louis Greenwald , a Democrat from
 Cherry Hill , wants to double that credit to 20 percent. He would
pay for it with a tax surcharge on those with million-dollar
incomes. Christie has pledged to veto such a levy.  PublicMind polltakers questioned 800 registered voters by
telephone March 5-11. The survey has a margin of error of plus
or minus 3.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 