-- Citigroup Ex-Manager Islam Has No Regrets After Funds Crash
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2012-03-13T18:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/citigroup-ex-manager-islam-has-no-regrets-from-hedge-fund-crash.html
Reaz Islam, who ran  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
hedge funds that lost most of their value in 2008, has “no
regrets” about his performance and said “ambulance-chasing”
lawyers are behind claims that he and the bank misled clients.  Investors in the ASTA/MAT municipal bond funds knew how
volatile they were, Islam said in interviews and e-mails that
broke his four-year silence on the matter. Those claiming
otherwise are either “engaged in fraud or highly
irresponsible,” said Islam, who left New York-based Citigroup
in 2008 and works in Dhaka, Bangladesh.  The funds, now defunct, placed Citigroup at the center of a
regulatory probe and a wave of litigation when they crashed four
years ago. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or
Finra, has ordered the bank to pay at least $60 million to some
of the funds’ investors, who said that Citigroup pitched them a
safe, more profitable alternative to other fixed-income
investments. There are 69 claims remaining, according to Philip Aidikoff, a lawyer for plaintiffs.  “This was a high-volatility, high-return strategy and
never a safe and riskless investment as claimed by a few rogue,
ambulance-chasing attorneys,” Islam said in an e-mail. “I have
no regrets and obviously learned a lot from the crisis, notably
to expect the unexpected at all times and how people change
color in times of crisis.”  The ASTA/MAT funds attracted Citigroup clients, who were
pitched the investment by the lender’s private bankers and
financial advisers. Investors included Ronald Beard, chairman of
 Callaway Golf Co. (ELY) , Jerry Murdock, the founder of a $5 billion
venture-capital firm, and Bruce Spector, a senior adviser to
buyout firm Apollo Global Management LLC.  Borrowed Billions  Islam, 45, sought to exploit differences between yields on
 U.S. government debt  and municipal bonds. He borrowed billions
of dollars from banks to amplify the bets, according to
Citigroup documents filed in U.S. District Court in Denver.  The funds swooned when investors fled the credit markets in
2008 and lenders requested repayment. As a group, the ASTA/MAT
funds had raised $1.92 billion from investors, the court
documents show. As of Feb. 29, 2008, they held $303 million, an
84 percent decline.  “Unfortunately, like many things in life, the strategies
no longer worked after the material and sustained change in
correlation in early 2008, breaking 15-plus years of strong
history of correlation, the key driver of the strategy,” Islam
wrote. “Every manager in the space had the same fate, with no
exceptions.”  Biggest Award  Murdock and Gerald Hosier, who live in Aspen,  Colorado , won
$54.1 million from the bank through a Finra arbitration claim
last April, including $17 million in punitive damages, after
alleging that Citigroup misled them about the funds’ risk. Their
award is the fifth-biggest of its kind, Finra records show.  Citigroup’s defense in the arbitration was that investors
knew of the risks and signed agreements saying they understood
that the funds could lose money, according to court records. A
three-person Finra panel ruled against the bank, and the federal
court in Denver dismissed an appeal in December.  The bank intends to appeal the latest decision, according
to its annual filing last month. Citigroup’s legal team didn’t
contact Islam about the case, he said.  ‘Accurate and Complete’  “Citi acted appropriately at all times in connection with
the development, sales and marketing of ASTA/MAT,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the bank, said in an e-mail.
“Our disclosures were accurate and complete, and detailed the
risks associated with investing in these products.”  Islam is now a managing partner with  LR Global Partners LP ,
a New York-based investment firm with operations in  Bangladesh ,
 Singapore ,  Vietnam  and  Sri Lanka , according to its website. The
company manages about $250 million, much of which he oversees in
Bangladesh, Islam said.  He said he never marketed the ASTA/MAT funds to investors.
That was done by Citigroup’s private bankers, he said. The sales
documents they gave to potential investors were clear about the
risks, Islam said. He provided Bloomberg News with a marketing
brochure for one of the funds that targeted “traditional
municipal-bond investors” who were looking for more profit --
and more risk.  “We talked about every risk in the prospectus,” Islam
said. “The marketing materials, including the term sheet risk
disclosures, were comprehensive, written in plain English and
idiot-proof.”  ‘Traditional’ Investors  Investors disagree. Citigroup pitched the funds as
“conservative,” Hosier and Murdock claimed. Internal documents
show that Citigroup sought clients who otherwise invested in
more conventional fixed-income securities.  “To be clear, our goal is NOT to target hedge-fund clients
who are willing to accept an unrestricted risk profile,”
Citigroup wrote in one of the documents. Instead, the lender
sought “larger traditional fixed-income investors who are
seeking alternatives and customized solutions without materially
altering their risk characteristics.”  Richard Zinman, an adviser then working for Citigroup,
pitched one of the funds in a Jan. 6, 2006, e-mail to Murdock as
“a muni substitute” that took “virtually no credit risk,”
court documents show. Zinman, now at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) ,
referred questions to  David Walker , a spokesman for the Zurich-
based bank, who declined to comment.  ‘Slap Him’  Michael Piuze, an attorney in  Los Angeles , said the
ASTA/MAT fund managers took more risks than they said they
would. He won $766,000 from Citigroup on a May 2010 Finra claim.  “He should either have his mouth washed out with soap or
have someone slap him a couple of times,” Piuze said of Islam.  Piuze won millions of dollars in damages for families of
smokers who sued  Altria Group Inc. (MO) , the maker of Marlboro
cigarettes, claiming the firm misrepresented the risk. Spector,
the Apollo Global Management adviser and founder of the  Private
Bank of California , won a Finra claim for $383,000.  Citigroup pitched the investment to Beard, the Callaway
chairman, as a standard municipal-bond investment fund that
offered “slightly better” returns, he said in a phone
interview. Beard, a former chairman of  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher
LLP (1128L) , won a Finra claim for $336,000 in December 2010. He said
his money is now managed by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   The Securities and Exchange Commission is examining how
Citigroup managed and marketed the ASTA/MAT funds, the bank said
in its annual filing. Citigroup disclosed the inquiry in August
2008 and is cooperating with regulators, according to the
filing.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Borrowed Billions  Islam’s funds borrowed billions of dollars to buy both
municipal securities and derivatives designed to minimize losses
should the bonds decline in value. The funds borrowed eight to
nine times the amount gathered from investors, Citigroup
documents show, and controlled about $18 billion of assets
because of that leverage, Islam said.  The bank pitched the ASTA/MAT funds to clients in its
private bank and at the Smith Barney brokerage, according to a
Citigroup document that became public in the Hosier case. The
minimum investment in each fund was $500,000, according to the
document. All of the money in ASTA/MAT came from Citigroup’s
clients, said Steven Caruso, a lawyer for Murdock and Hosier.  Murdock founded Insight Venture Partners, a New York-based
investment firm that has raised more than $5 billion, according
to its  website . Former Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin  and ex-
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chairman  Stephen Friedman  are listed as
special limited partners at the firm.  Lemelson’s Attorney  Hosier, a patent attorney, worked for Jerome Lemelson, an
inventor who obtained more than 600 patents on ideas from bar-
code readers to soft-tipped darts. Lemelson, who died in 1997,
and a foundation he started sued hundreds of businesses for
infringement. Companies often settled by paying license fees.  The ASTA/MAT funds were popular among such clients because
they historically produced higher returns than similar fixed-
income investments, Islam said. They also were tax-free because
they came from owning municipal bonds, the debt securities
issued by U.S. cities and counties, he said.  Islam started the funds in 2002. They returned 14 percent
on average each year, including tax savings, until early 2007
when he started the MAT Five fund, he said.  “There were never any complaints prior to the crisis in
2007 and 2008,” Islam said.  Concern about the safety of corporate and asset-backed
bonds in the second half of 2007 led to declines in municipal
debt, too. U.S. Treasuries, a haven for investors, rallied. The
moves pushed the yield on municipal bonds to their highest
compared with Treasuries since 2003, and the ratio became more
volatile, buffeting the ASTA/MAT funds. The MAT Five fund lost
17 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007.  ‘Dislocation’  A “dislocation between tax-exempt and taxable yields”
caused the loss, according to a report to investors.  Markets worsened in 2008, and Islam’s lenders demanded
repayment of the loans he used to leverage his municipal-bond
purchases, according to Caruso. One of the banks making a margin
call was Citigroup itself, Caruso said. Citigroup subsequently
loaned the funds $660 million to keep them solvent, he said.  Funds that raised money last suffered most because they
hadn’t been around long enough to collect interest payments from
the municipal bonds they held, Caruso said. MAT Five held $19
million on Feb. 29, 2008, after raising $632 million in 2007,
court records show.  Citigroup offered MAT Five investors 23 cents on the dollar
for their stakes, Caruso said. All of the funds shut down in
2011, he said.  ‘Psychological Capital’  “Despite all odds, until the final days we did everything
we could to protect the investments but failed, given the speed
and magnitude of the dislocation that no one predicted,” said
Islam, who said he lost about $2 million, including deferred
compensation. “As a percentage of my net worth at that time, I
do not believe anyone lost more money in these strategies as I
did, not including loss of my psychological capital.”  Islam didn’t just suffer from bad luck, investors say. He
and his team took more risk and borrowed too much money because
of “powerful economic incentives,” Hosier and Murdock claimed.
This included a fee structure that delivered 20 percent of all
income earned by the funds, shared by Citigroup and the fund
managers, once the funds produced returns exceeding 5.5 percent.  Islam left Citigroup in August 2008. He kept his account of
the ASTA/MAT collapse to himself until contacted by Bloomberg
News. Nothing could have saved the funds in the end, he said.  ‘Different Story’  The fallout for the bank isn’t over. Aidikoff, the
plaintiffs’ attorney, said the 69 households with pending Finra
cases put more than $125 million into ASTA/MAT.  “The written evidence produced by Citi in these cases
tells a different story” than Islam’s characterization of
plaintiffs’ lawyers, Aidikoff said. “His arrogance in the face
of recorded conversations and broker e-mails is remarkable, but
not unexpected.”  In Dhaka, almost 8,000 miles (12,900 kilometers) from
Citigroup’s New York headquarters, Islam said he’s trying to
move on with his life.  “I still think about, given all the facts at that time, if
we could have done anything differently,” Islam wrote in an e-
mail. “The answer is consistently NO.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net 
Anthony Effinger in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  