-- Coffee Buffs From Amazon to Rio Poise Brazil to Top U.S.
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-03-13T16:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/coffee-buffs-from-amazon-to-rio-poise-brazil-to-top-u-s-.html
Diogo Ribeiro da Luz, visiting a
missionary friend in the heart of the  Amazon  three years ago,
stepped into a banana-leaf tent to be greeted by a tribesman
covered in red body paint asking if he wanted a cup of coffee.  The surprise offer from the remote rainforest tribe, where
the drink was never traditionally consumed, reflects rising
demand across the country, said Luz, who runs Sao Paulo-based
coffee roaster Cafes Bom Retiro Ltda. Brazil may overtake the
U.S. as the world’s largest consumer of the bean in two to three
years, according to Marcos Pinta Gama, Brazil’s permanent
representative to international organizations in  London .  Accelerating economic growth has made espressos and
premium-blend coffee drinks from companies such as  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  more affordable to the country’s expanding middle class.
The number of coffee shops in Sao Paulo, the country’s largest
city, doubled in 15 years to 25,000, Luz said, boosted by a
Brazilian economy that is now the world’s sixth largest.  “Suddenly more Brazilians have access to good coffee,”
Luz, 53, said in a March 5 telephone interview from company
headquarters in the city of 10.4 million people. “Once you
experience a good cup, it’s hard to go back to the old thing.”  Coffee futures have jumped 42 percent in the past two years
as demand grows. Global consumption, which increased 2.5 percent
a year on average in the last decade, will rise 1.5 percent in
2012, Roberio Silva, executive director of the  International
Coffee Organization , said Jan. 18.  Rising Demand  Brazil stepped back from the verge of default in 2002 to
double its four-year average annual growth rates and become the
sixth-largest economy in the world, pulling more than 35 million
people out of poverty.  Brazilian coffee demand has doubled since 1995 and is
expected to increase 3.5 percent to 20.4 million bags in the
year ending Oct. 31, according to roasters association Abic.
Brazilians consumed 18.9 million bags in 2010, compared with
21.8 million bags in the U.S., the London-based  International
Coffee Association (ICOEBRAR)  said in its latest report, released March 1.
A bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds).  U.S. per capita consumption has declined in past decades
since peaking in 1946, falling to 4.1 kilograms (9 pounds) in
2009 from a record 8.9 kilograms then, according to the latest
U.S. Department of Agriculture data. In Brazil, consumption
reached a record 6 kilograms per capita in 2010, up from 4.9
kilograms in 2001, the USDA said in a Nov. 10 report.  Four Generations  Luz, whose family has grown coffee for four generations in
mountains north of  Sao Paulo  and supplies roasters such as
 Italy ’s Illycaffe SpA, created the Bravocafe gourmet brand in
2001 to take advantage of growing consumption in cafes,
bookstores, restaurants and hotels. His blend is served in about
800 venues in Sao Paulo, Rio and other cities, he said.  “I was drinking an Illy espresso in a restaurant one day
and it dawned on me that if I supplied them with the beans, why
not make the espresso myself,” Luz said.  Illycaffe, Italy’s second-biggest espresso blend maker, has
doubled sales in Brazil in the past five years following 45
percent growth last year, Federico Di Franco, general manager
for  South America , said by e-mail. The company buys half of the
coffee it processes from Brazil. A Sao Paulo-based outside firm
representing Lavazza SpA, Italy’s top coffee company, declined
to provide data about their sales.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company, expects sales
of its coffee products in Brazil to jump 40 percent this year,
repeating 2011 growth, Ivan Zurita, chief executive officer of
the company’s unit in the country, said in a March 9 interview
in Sao Paulo.  ‘Increasing Confidence’  Starbucks, which opened its first Brazilian store in 2006,
plans to end this year with 38, up from 28 in 2010.  “We have increasing confidence in the potential for
Starbucks in Brazil,” Chief Financial Officer Troy Alstead said
on a Jan. 26 conference call. “We have bold ambitions.”  A drive to fight fraud at Brazilian roasters, which used to
mix ground corn and coffee-bean skin into blends to boost
profitability, has helped ensure quality and increase domestic
consumption, Nathan Herszkowicz,  executive director  at Abic,
said in a March 5 telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  “Fraud fighting was the engine of growth,” he said.
“Brazilians are serious about their coffee.”  Tests in the 1980s showed that about 30 percent of
Brazilian ground coffee contained impurities such as barley,
corn, soybeans and sugar, Herszkowicz said.  Brazilian coffee output will jump to as much as a record
52.3 million bags this year as trees enter the higher-yielding
half of a two-year cycle, the Ministry of Agriculture said Jan.
10. Last year, Brazil harvested 43.5 million bags. The country
produces about a third of world exports.  New Trend  Before the boom in Brazilian consumption of premium coffee,
all high-grade beans were exported and the remainder destined
for the domestic market, said Sergio Hazan, chief executive
officer of Santos, Brazil-based coffee exporter Comexim Ltda.
The trend has been changing over the past 15 years as the number
of coffee lovers grows in the country, he said.  “If a tribesman whose only other possessions are a hammock
and a cooking pan owns a Thermos bottle for his coffee, I have
no doubt this market will keep growing in  Brazil ,” said Luz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  