-- Columbia Student Klein Granted Probation in New York City Drug-Sale Case
-- B y   I a n   T h o m a s
-- 2012-03-13T16:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/columbia-student-klein-granted-probation-in-new-york-city-drug-sale-case.html
Adam Klein , one of five Columbia
University students arrested in December 2010 and charged with
selling drugs on the New York City campus, was sentenced to five
years’ probation after pleading guilty in January to attempted
criminal possession of a controlled substance.  Justice Michael Sonberg of state  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan 
imposed the sentence today. It was recommended by prosecutors as
part of a plea bargain. Klein, 21, of Closter,  New Jersey , faced
a term as long as 2 1/2 years if convicted of the most serious
charge against him initially.  “I now realize that my behavior was unacceptable and I am
sorry,” Klein said in a statement he read to the judge. He also
apologized to his professors and classmates, saying he brought
“unnecessary grief to the school.”  Klein, who was a neuroscience and behavior major who
competed on the school’s fencing team, has since left Columbia,
according to his lawyer, Alan M. Abramson. Klein now attends a
 City University  of  New York  school, and works part-time and does
tutoring, Abramson said.  “He’s looking forward to getting his life back on track,”
Abramson said. If Klein completes his probation, this violation
will be expunged from his record, Abramson said.  Klein’s case is the last to be resolved in court. Three of
the students pleaded guilty. Another was allowed into a drug-
treatment program.  ‘Operation Ivy League’  The arrests came after a five-month investigation by the
New York City police dubbed “Operation Ivy League.” Undercover
narcotics officers spent $11,000 buying drugs including cocaine,
marijuana, ecstasy and LSD-laced candy, with most sales taking
place in common areas and bedrooms of three fraternities,
according to prosecutors.  Michael Wymbs, 23, of New York, and Jose Stephan Perez, 21,
of Atlanta, pleaded guilty to similar charges last year in
exchange for five years’ probation.  Harrison David, 21, of Wrentham,  Massachusetts , pleaded
guilty in July to selling cocaine to an undercover officer in
exchange for six months in jail and five years of probation. He
started serving his sentence in August and has been released.  Drug Program  Christopher Coles, 21, of Philadelphia, was accepted into a
pretrial drug-treatment program.  The students were all suspended from Columbia after their
arrests. Students who violate Columbia’s drug policy may face
expulsion, according to its website.  The school suspended the three fraternities whose members
were arrested. Alpha Epsilon Pi, Pi Kappa Alpha and Psi Upsilon
also lost control of their brownstone residences,  according  to
the Columbia Spectator, a college newspaper. The school has
since required the fraternities to implement three-year
improvement plans, as well as submit annual reports that are
evaluated on factors including academic success, leadership
development and community service.  The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act  bars
universities  from commenting on the enrollment status and
disciplinary records of their students, said  Robert Hornsby , a
university spokesman. The university declined to comment any
further.  Sonberg rejected requests from Klein, Wymbs and Perez to
enter the diversion program, which was set up in 2009 as part of
a reform of that state’s so-called Rockefeller drug laws. The
program allows judges to divert some nonviolent offenders to
treatment programs instead of incarceration.  Three suppliers, none of whom attended Columbia, pleaded
guilty in the case last year.  The case is People v. David, 00038N/2011, New York state
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Thomas in New York
at   ithomas15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 