-- Confidence at U.S. Small Companies Climbs to One-Year High
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-13T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/confidence-at-u-s-small-companies-climbs-to-one-year-high.html
Confidence among U.S. small
businesses rose in February to the highest level in a year as
profits improved, a private survey found.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
 index  increased to 94.3, the best reading since February 2011
and the sixth consecutive monthly gain, from 93.9 in January,
the Washington-based group said today. Its earnings gauge
climbed to the highest level since before the recession began.  The pickup in confidence was broad-based as more small
companies also said they are boosting wages, anticipating better
sales and planning to grow inventories. The data underscore
figures last week that showed payrolls climbed and the jobless
rate held at a three-year low.  The results are “good news for economy watchers,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief economist, said in a statement.
Small businesses are “mostly headed in the right direction,
just at a glacial pace.”  The gauge averaged 100.6 in the five years before the
recession began in December 2007.  A measure of the trend in profits increased five points to
net minus 19 percent, the best reading since October 2007, the
report showed.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
giving a positive response and adjusting the results for
seasonal variations.  Less Positive  Last month’s improvement came even as small-company leaders
were less optimistic about the economy as a whole. The gauge of
expectations for better business conditions six months from now
fell three points to net minus 6 percent, and an index of
whether firms think this is a good time to expand fell one point
to net 8 percent, today’s report showed.  Measures on hiring and investment were also less promising.
The small-business gauge of plans to add to payrolls dropped one
point to net 4 percent, and those intending to make capital
purchases over the next three to six months fell a point, the
first decline in five months, to net 23 percent.  The NFIB report was based on 819 survey responses through
February 29. Small businesses represent more than 99 percent of
all U.S. employers, according to the U.S. Small Business
Administration. A small business is defined as an independent
enterprise employing as many as 500 people.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 