-- Crops Can’t Expect Special Subsidies in Farm Bill, Stallman Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-03-13T16:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/crops-can-t-expect-special-subsidies-in-farm-bill-stallman-says.html
Growers of corn, cotton and other
major crops are going to have to learn to live without special
subsidies under a new farm bill, said Robert Stallman, the head
of the largest U.S. farmer group.  With Congress in a budget-cutting mood and farm profits
near records highs, producers will have to make the most of
general programs meant to serve all commodities, such as crop
insurance, rather than look for extra incentives, Stallman, the
president of the  American Farm Bureau Federation , told reporters
today in a briefing at the organization’s Washington
headquarters.  “Individual commodity organizations don’t understand that
they aren’t going to get their wishes fulfilled,” Stallman
said. “We think we need to have an overarching program that
covers all commodities,” said Stallman, who added that the
elections in November will make passage of a farm bill this year
difficult.  Net  farm income  that reached a record $98.1 billion in 2011
and may be $91.7 billion this year, the second-biggest ever, has
made agriculture subsidies a top target for lawmakers and
government officials seeking to reduce federal spending. House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Republican, has
recommended reductions of as much as $48 billion over 10 years,
while President  Barack Obama  has asked for $32 billion in cuts.  Stallman is scheduled to testify tomorrow in a Senate
Agriculture Committee hearing on crop insurance and subsidies.
The Senate panel and its House counterpart are working on
legislation to replace the farm bill that expires Sept. 30. The
measure would authorize spending for all U.S. Department of
Agriculture programs, including nutrition initiatives such as
 food stamps , crop payments and insurance plans, for a period of
about five years.  The USDA forecasts that  farm subsidies , which protect
farmers while encouraging production, helping agribusiness
companies such as Archer Daniels Midland Co. and Cargill Inc.,
may reach $11 billion this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  