-- Daniel Och Sued by Ex-Employee Achache Over 2009 Termination
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-03-13T22:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/daniel-och-sued-by-ex-employee-achache-over-2009-termination-1-.html
Daniel Och, founder of  Och-Ziff
Capital Management Group LLC (OCH) , was sued by a former employee,
Arnaud Achache, who accused Och of forcing him out to boost his
own interest in the company.  Achache, a citizen of  France  who lives in  Beverly Hills ,
 California , filed the complaint March 9in  New York  State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan , seeking more than $50 million in actual
damages and more than $100 million in punitive damages.  Achache said he joined Och-Ziff in about July 2003 from
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and became a non-managing member of the
firm’s operating groups in January 2005, when he received a
1 percent ownership interest. Achache said he was terminated as
a limited partner in March 2009.  “The defendants, acting by and through Och for his direct
benefit, and to the detriment of plaintiffs, terminated Achache
as a limited partner of the Operating Group Entities in
violation of the Agreements of Limited Partnership, for the sole
purpose of gaining for himself a larger equity interest in
breach of his fiduciary duties,” according to the complaint.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for New York-based Och-
Ziff, declined to comment on the lawsuit today in a phone
interview.  Och, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  trader, left the
firm in 1994 to start a hedge fund for Ziff Brothers Investments
LLC, which managed the Ziff family’s publishing fortune.  Switched in 1999  He oversaw money solely for the Ziffs for five years and
then opened his fund to outside investors in 1999.  Achache said he specializes in capital structure arbitrage
investments, which aim to profit from mispricing of different
securities sold by the same company.  Och began to “systematically eliminate” limited partners
at a rate of two a year after the company’s initial public
offering in November 2007, and has forced Achache and at least
five other limited partners to withdraw, taking back about
53 percent of their ownership interests, he said in the suit.  Achache said his membership interest was cut to 0.962
percent “without explanation” in January 2007 and he
approached Joel Frank, chief financial officer of the firm’s
operating group entities, to discuss it.  Frank said the decision was Och’s alone and that he should
ask him for an explanation, according to the complaint.  Feared for Career  “By the tenor of his response, Mr. Frank made it apparent
to Achache that it would not be in his best interests to contest
this matter with Och,” the complaint says. “Achache did not
contest this unilateral diminution of plaintiffs’ ownership
interest because he feared for his career and ability to earn a
living.”  Achache said he signed a separation agreement in May 2009
“obtained by fraud and by economic duress and coercion” that
took back 75 percent of his unvested limited partnership
interests, which the suit says have a fair market value of about
$25 million.  “In connection with Achache’s visa status and his ability
to retain the legal right to remain in the  United States  as a
foreign national no longer employed by a U.S. company, Och
expressly stated to Achache that defendants would assist him
with the visa process,” according to the complaint. “However,
defendants’ conduct thereafter made it clear to Achache that
their ongoing assistance with the visa process was conditioned
upon his agreement to the terms” of the separation agreement.  The case is Achache v. Och, 650737/2012, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  