-- Debussy’s Erotic Fauns, Damsels Romp in Paris Shows: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-03-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/debussy-s-erotic-fauns-damsels-romp-in-paris-exhibits-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Paris is celebrating the 150th
anniversary of French composer Debussy in style.  The most original event is “Debussy, Music and the Arts,”
an exhibition at the  Orangerie  that traces his relationships
with contemporary writers and painters.  When Debussy (1862-1918) was still young and struggling,
one of his patrons was the painter and collector Henry Lerolle.
In Lerolle’s salon, Degas and Renoir rubbed elbows with
Mallarme, Gide, Claudel and other luminaries.  In the show, you’ll find Lerolle’s daughters at the piano,
painted by Renoir. One of the two, Yvonne, whom Debussy liked to
call “la petite soeur de Melisande,” also appears in three
different poses on a canvas by Maurice Denis.  Debussy was a well-read man whose compositions often were
inspired by literature.  “The Blessed Damozel,” a poem and a painting by Dante
Gabriel Rossetti, the British Pre-Raphaelite, is a case in
point. She morphed into “La Damoiselle Elue,” a cantata for
female voices and chorus, one of Debussy’s early works.  “Le Prelude a l’Apres-midi d’un Faune,” his first
masterpiece, was inspired by Mallarme’s eponymous poem. Danced
by Vaslav Nijinsky, the faun’s Elvis-like gyrations created a
scandal. Looking at Adolphe de Meyer’s photographs, it’s hard to
understand what all the fuss was about.  A Greek vase portraying a maenad chased by a satyr in the
full bloom of his manliness is decidedly more risque.  Sapphic Fantasies  Mallarme had called his poem an “eclogue” (Latin for:
song of a cowherd), bowing to the craze for classical poetry at
the time.  Debussy’s friend Pierre Louys made fun of the fad by
passing off his erotic fantasies, “Les Chansons de Bilitis,”
as translations from a Greek poetess contemporary with Sappho.  The hoax was a hit. Debussy set three of Louys’s prose
poems to music.  “Pelleas et Melisande” appears in the guise of maquettes
for the set, sketches for costumes, paintings and prints such as
“Attraction,” “Jealousy” and “Vampire” by  Edvard Munch .  The show is silent about the row between the composer and
Maurice Maeterlinck on whose play the opera is based. When
Maeterlinck’s mistress Georgette Leblanc failed to get the title
role he tried to disrupt the dress rehearsal and expressed in a
letter to “Le Figaro” newspaper the hope the opera would fail.  Master Painters  Around “La Mer,” Debussy’s best known symphonic poem, the
organizers have grouped some 20 canvases by Manet, Monet,
Gauguin, Degas, Turner and Winslow Homer that are more or less
related to the subject.  Among other highlights, the Bastille Opera has dusted off
 Robert Wilson ’s 1997 production of “Pelleas and Melisande”
with Stephane Degout and Elena Tsallagova in the title roles.
 Philippe Jordan  conducts. The opera is in repertory through
March 16. Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr .  The house at Saint-Germain-en-Laye near Paris, where
Debussy was born in 1862 and where his father kept a china shop,
is mounting an exhibition with memorabilia from his life. The
show runs through Sept. 16. Information:
 http://www.saintgermainenlaye.fr .  “Debussy, Music and the Arts,” runs through June 11 at
the Orangerie in Paris and then travels to the Bridgestone
Museum in  Tokyo  where it will be on view from July 13 to Oct.
14. Information:  http://www.musee-orangerie.fr ,
 http://www.bridgestone-museum.gr.jp .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 