-- Dell to Acquire SonicWall to Expand Network-Security Tools
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-03-13T20:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/dell-to-acquire-sonicwall-from-investor-group-to-gain-security-equipment.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , the world’s third-
largest maker of personal computers, agreed to buy SonicWall
Inc. to gain network-security and data-protection tools, paying
a price that analysts peg at between $1 billion and $1.5
billion.  SonicWall, based in  San Jose , California, had revenue of
about $260 million in the past 12 months and about 950
employees, executives from both companies  said  today on a
conference call to announce the deal. SonicWall’s technology
detects and protects networks from intrusions and malware
attacks, and helps protect data.  Dell is buying services and software businesses as the PC
market faces competition from smartphones and tablets. Last
month, the company hired CA Inc. Chief Executive Officer John Swainson to oversee the software push, and today he said
security is an important part of that strategy.  “My goal is to make software a meaningful part of Dell’s
overall portfolio, so that means that this is not the last thing
you’re going to see from us,” Swainson said on a media call.
“We are going to build and buy software assets that complement
the overall Dell portfolio.”  Clients need to feel secure moving data to the so-called
cloud, which allows them store data on the Internet, Swainson
said. Dell will invest both “organically and inorganically” to
expand in that sector, he said.  Dell, which currently derives 54 percent of its sales from
desktops and laptops, advanced 1.6 percent to $17.23 at the
close in New York. The shares have  risen  18 percent this year.  Cloud Offering        While the financial terms weren’t made public in a
statement,  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell probably paid between $1
billion and $1.5 billion,  Peter Misek , a Jefferies & Co.
analyst, wrote in a note.  “We think this adds more tools to Dell’s cloud stack,”
wrote Misek, who recommends  holding  the company’s shares. Still,
a unified product isn’t likely before 2013.  David Frink , a Dell spokesman, didn’t immediately return an
e-mail seeking comment on the price.  SonicWall was acquired in 2010, for about $717 million, by
a private-equity group led by Thoma Bravo LLC and the  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan .  Most of the company’s sales are to small and medium-sized
businesses, with about 25 percent of revenue coming from larger
“enterprise” customers, such as universities and regional
financial institutions, SonicWall CEO Matt Medeiros said on
today’s call.  SonicWall is expanding its next-generation firewall
business with its SuperMassive offering, Medeiros said. Its main
competitors are  Cisco Systems Inc., (CSCO)   Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  and
 Fortinet Inc. (FTNT) , he said.  Firewall Market  “The deal allows Dell to play in the next-generation
firewall market,” Shebly Seyrafi, an analyst at FBN Securities,
said today in a client note. “We believe that it will compete
against leaders such as  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP) 
and Palo Alto Networks Inc. primarily, and against Fortinet,
Cisco, Juniper and Intel Corp.’s McAfee Inc., secondarily,”
wrote Seyrafi, who rates Dell “sector perform.”  The SonicWall deal is expected to close in Dell’s fiscal
second quarter, which ends July 31, according to the statement.  Dell’s latest security purchase follows its acquisition of
SecureWorks Inc. last year,  and  KACE Networks Inc. in 2010.  SonicWall was advised by Centerview Partners LLC, according
to a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  