-- Delta Joins Southwest in Forecasting Cuts as Fuel Surges
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-03-13T20:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/delta-joins-southwest-in-forecast-cuts-as-fuel-costs-surge.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV)  curbed their first-quarter forecasts today as
surging fuel costs erode profit at U.S. carriers.  The discount carrier now projects a loss in the three
months through March, compared with earnings of 3.5 cents a
share that  analysts  estimated previously, while Atlanta-based
Delta predicted lower profitability  “We not only expect fuel prices to stay high, but we
expect they’re going to continue to rise over the long term,”
Delta President Ed Bastian said at the JPMorgan Aviation,
Transportation & Defense Conference in  New York . The airline cut
its operating margin forecast to 1 percent to 3 percent, from as
much as 4 percent, amid a $250 million increase in fuel.  Jet fuel  has risen every year since 2008, surpassing labor
as the biggest expense for most U.S. airlines. Carriers have
responded by cutting seating capacity to maintain the ability to
raise fares.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the largest
carrier, said it will trim seating as much as 1.5 percent this
year because of fuel rather than keeping capacity flat.  “Fuel is the story of the quarter,” Southwest Chief
Financial Officer Laura Wright said at the conference. “Based
on current revenue and fuel estimates, we currently do not
anticipate a profit in the first quarter.”  March Bookings  The Dallas-based carrier expects fuel to average $3.50 a
gallon this quarter, 15 cents higher than earlier forecasts,
Wright said.  Southwest’s outlook for the full year remains favorable,
while “highly dependent” on stabilized fuel prices and an
economic environment that will support travel demand and fare
increases, she said.  Bookings remain “good,” Wright said. March passenger unit
revenue may be up in the “low-to mid-single digits” from a
year earlier, she said.  Bookings and yields at Chicago-based United are “doing
well” so far in March even with “areas of weakness” such as
 Europe , Chief Executive Officer Jeff Smisek said today on a
webcast.  “The domestic system is doing better than you would expect
from reading the headlines in the newspaper,  Latin America  is
doing well,” he said. “We’re comfortable with our bookings for
March, comfortable with where we are. Going forward, it’s going
to be a function of how the  U.S. economy  responds and the
recovery in Europe.”  The  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index (BUSAIRL)  increased 1.6 percent at
4:05 p.m. as broader markets rose, with all 11 carriers in the
index posting gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  