-- Detroit Finds Small Is Beautiful as Compact Buyers Return
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/detroit-finds-small-is-beautiful-as-compact-buyers-return.html
When the engine blew on his eight-
year-old Toyota Matrix last year, Shane Wilson needed a new car
fast and wanted something good on gas. He shopped the usual
suspects: small Honda and Toyota models he’d owned in the past.
Then he surprised himself by buying a Chevrolet Cruze.  “I thought American cars were pretty horrid and that they
tended to fall apart,” said Wilson, 36, an accounts manager for
the  Internal Revenue Service  in  Seattle . “But the  Cruze  was fun
to drive and the interior was light-years better than American
cars used to be.”  Small cars, once the Achilles’ heel of U.S. automakers, are
becoming a strength. Sales of  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevy Cruze
compact are up 10 percent this year, while  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
Focus compact sales have soared 90 percent. Last year, GM, Ford
and Chrysler Group LLC’s share of the compact and subcompact
market in the U.S. rose to a four-year high of 26 percent, from
20 percent in 2010, according to researcher LMC Automotive.  After losing a generation of car buyers to Japanese
automakers such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , U.S.-based companies are
building their comebacks on cars they once dismissed and
discounted in favor of high-profit sport-utility vehicles. Small
cars from Detroit are no longer utilitarian econoboxes. They
have high style and high-tech features, such as voice-activated
stereos, previously found only on bigger, more expensive models.  “Remember when smaller cars used to be cheap and
cheerful?” Ford Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally asked
reporters March 6 at the Geneva motor show. “Now the consumers
want the finest quality, the finest  fuel efficiency , safety and
design.”  Small-Car Foundation  While SUVs and pickups still have higher profit margins,
Detroit has discovered that small cars are the foundation of a
successful automaker. Since compacts are often a buyer’s first
car, they represent the initial step in building brand loyalty.
Toyota,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and other Japanese companies used small
cars as their wedge into the U.S. market in the 1970s, while GM,
Ford and Chrysler spent more development dollars on bigger
models that burned more fuel.  The weakness of that strategy was exposed in 2008 when the
average U.S. price of unleaded gasoline peaked at $4.11 a
gallon. The lack of competitive compacts accelerated the
collapse of U.S. automakers. Ford posted a record loss of $14.8
billion for 2008, and GM and Chrysler entered bankruptcy the
following year.  “That was a defining moment for Detroit,” said Jessica Caldwell, director of industry analysis at auto researcher
Edmunds.com in  Santa Monica ,  California . “That really pointed
out the weaknesses in their small-car lineups and it hit home
that they needed strong models throughout their portfolio.”  Fuel Prices  As U.S. fuel prices return to those levels, small-car sales
are rising, too. Compacts and subcompacts will account for 19
percent of U.S. auto sales this year, up from 13 percent in
2005, LMC forecasts. Regular unleaded gasoline averaged  $3.80 a
gallon  on March 11, up 8.3 percent from a month ago, according
to AAA.  Without the Cruze and Sonic subcompact that have debuted
over last two years, GM wouldn’t weather the rising gas prices
as well, said  Don Johnson , the automaker’s U.S. sales chief.  “We wouldn’t be in as good a shape as we are today,”
Johnson told analysts and reporters on a March 6 conference
call. “Cruze continues to be a more and more important part of
our portfolio.”  U.S. automakers see rising fuel prices as an opportunity to
poach car buyers from Toyota and Honda, which have just fully
restocked showrooms after natural disasters in  Asia  cut
inventory in 2011.  ‘More Competitive Models’  “With more competitive models from the  Detroit  brands,
they’re positioned to benefit from the rise in gas prices,”
said  Jeff Schuster , senior vice president of forecasting at LMC 
in Troy, Michigan. “Who would have thought that?”  Some of Detroit’s competitors acknowledge the change.  “The steady increase in gas prices over the last few years
has forced many competitors to finally get serious about cars
again and, for the first time ever, some of them are bringing
credible small cars to market,”  John Mendel , executive vice
president of U.S. sales for Honda, said in an e-mail.  As car buyers return to showrooms, they’re finding
significantly better fuel economy in the new models from U.S.
automakers. The Cruze, Ford Focus and Fiesta are each rated to
get 40 miles (64 kilometers) per gallon or better in highway
driving.  “As fuel prices went higher in February, so too did small
car sales,” said  Erich Merkle , sales analyst for Ford, where
Focus sales more than doubled last month.  Small-Car Supply  Car dealer Gordon Stewart can’t keep a small car in stock
at his four Chevrolet outlets and it reminds him of how models
sell at his Toyota outlet.  “If I could get the inventory, I’d double my small-car
sales tomorrow,” said Stewart, whose Gordon Stewart Chevrolet
Inc. is based in Tampa,  Florida , and who has Chevy stores in
Georgia, Florida and  Michigan  and a Toyota showroom in  Alabama .
“People used to come in looking for the big SUV, but now I sell
almost two cars for every truck. It’s much more like my Toyota
store.”  The primary attribute of Chevy’s old Cavalier compact was
its rock-bottom price, Stewart said. Now the Cruze and Sonic
sell on style and performance.  “We sold the Cavalier in volume because of price,”
Stewart said. “We’re selling the Cruze because the styling is
so hot.”  Looking to Japanese  U.S. small cars still haven’t caught up to Japanese models
in quality rankings. Japanese automakers held the top five spots
last month in Consumer Reports automaker report cards, a measure
of reliability, performance, comfort and utility. the
publication selected Toyota models as the top pick in five of
10 categories, including family sedan (Camry hybrid) and green
car (Prius).  “People still look to Japanese automakers when they shop
for small cars,” said Edmunds’ Caldwell. “A Toyota Corolla is
something they know.” The Corolla trails only Honda’s Civic as
the top-selling compact in the U.S. so far this year.  Among U.S. automakers, Chrysler has the longest way to go
to become competitive in small cars, Caldwell said. Next month,
Chrysler begins producing the Dodge Dart compact, based on a
design from Turin-based  Fiat SpA (F) , which controls the U.S.
automaker.  Sergio Marchionne , CEO of both companies, has called
Chrysler’s current small car, the Dodge Caliber, an
“abomination.”  Chrysler acknowledged it remains dependent on SUVs and
light trucks in a March 6 regulatory filing.  Changing Equation  Even with its recent small-car gains, Chrysler’s sales are
dominated by sport-utility vehicles, pickups and larger
minivans, the company said in the filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The company delivered
552,000 SUVs in the U.S. last year compared with 354,000 cars.
It sold 244,000 pickups, compared with 52,000 small cars.  GM, Ford and Chrysler are steadily changing that equation,
said LMC’s Schuster. They also are finding ways to make money on
small cars, which were loss leaders before they cut costs and
added features to justify increased prices.  “They’re getting the recipe right,” Schuster said. “It’s
a night-and-day difference between where Detroit is today and
where they were back in 2008 when rising gas prices caught them
off-guard.”  New Cruze owner Wilson says he has been surprised by the 34
mpg he’s averaging and that for $15,096, he got a base-model
small car with satellite radio, a six-speed manual transmission
and a black-and-cream interior that looks “rich.”  No one was more surprised, though, than Wilson’s friends
when he pulled up for the first time in an American small car.  “They were like, ‘Really, a Chevy?’” Wilson said. “Then
some of them had a chance to drive it and they were like, ‘OK,
this is pretty decent. This is not what we’re used to.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  