-- Detroit Faces Advisory Board Control Under Snyder’s Plan
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-03-13T22:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/detroit-faces-advisory-board-control-under-snyder-s-plan-2-.html
Detroit ’s finances would be placed
under a nine-member advisory board in a proposal by Michigan
Governor  Rick Snyder  to avoid a state takeover and erase a
deficit approaching $270 million.  Mayor Dave Bing rejected the plan, issuing a statement
today saying it trampled on “the electoral rights of the
citizens of Detroit guaranteed by the democratic process.”
Bing’s opposition may torpedo Snyder’s plans to resolve the
city’s financial crisis without the appointment of an emergency
manager with even broader powers to rein in costs.  The so-called consent plan for the state’s biggest city
would give Bing some of the authority of an emergency manager,
according to a draft proposal released today by the state
treasurer’s office. The mayor would still lack sole ability to
undo union contracts.  The deal would include $137 million in cash for the city to
avert payless paydays in May, said state Treasurer Andy Dillon.
He said the money would come from restructuring some of the
city’s debt and borrowing from private sources, with the state’s
backing.  Snyder, a Republican who has said he wants to avoid a state
takeover of the largely Democratic city, privately pitched the
plan to the City Council today. The proposal was also presented
to a 10-member state review board that is to recommend action to
Snyder by March 27 to fix the city’s finances.  Assuming Control  Under the consent agreement, the review team would hold off
declaring a financial emergency and the advisory board would
assume control of Detroit’s finances, including the power to
appoint the city’s chief operating and chief financial officers.  All collective-bargaining agreements would need to be
approved by the advisory board. The City Council and mayor would
appoint six of the board’s nine members.  The review team met and adjourned today to give its members
more time to consider the proposal. The team must approve any
financial recovery plan for the city of 714,000, the home of
 General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s largest carmaker.  Snyder’s proposal calls for reducing the number of city
employees and vendors, outsourcing some functions and
departments, modifying corporate taxes and improving Detroit’s
ability to collect local taxes, including possible amnesties.  If the plan isn’t followed, or is challenged in court by
city employees or unions, Snyder could appoint an emergency
manager with sweeping authority to cut costs, including
nullifying existing union contracts.  Responding to Bing’s rejection today, Ken Silfven, a
spokesman for Snyder, said the governor didn’t want to be
sidetracked by criticism of his plan.  “The city’s future is too important,” Silfven said in an
e-mail. “We can do this if we pull together, but time is not a
luxury that we have. There’s too much at stake for this great
city and our state. Failure is not an option.”  Council Criticism  The proposal was also criticized by some council members as
an illegal power grab by Snyder. The council referred it for
review to its research and analysis staff.  “This does nothing for the city except take away its
rights,” said Councilwoman JoAnn Watson.  Detroit will run up a $270.2 million deficit by the end of
June unless steps are taken to cut spending, the council said in
a Feb. 8 report. State Treasurer Dillon has said it could run
out of cash by May.  In his statement, Bing, a 68-year-old Democrat, called
Snyder’s plan “disingenuous,” saying it dismisses his
“unprecedented effort and concessions made by the city’s labor
unions to avoid an economic catastrophe.”  Bing in February negotiated wage and benefit concessions
with unions that represent most of Detroit’s 11,000 municipal
workers. He also began firing 1,000 of them as part of a plan to
save $360 million through the end of the next fiscal year in
June 2013.  The agreements cut pay 10 percent for all employees except
police and firefighters. None have been ratified by union
members.  The council report expressed doubts that the union
concessions are enough to avoid continuing deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  