-- Diamond Foods Hires Adviser to Repair Balance Sheet
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-03-13T20:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/diamond-foods-hires-adviser-to-strengthen-balance-sheet-capital-structure.html
Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND)  retained Dean
Bradley Osborne Partners LLC as financial adviser to strengthen
its balance sheet as a planned earnings restatement threatens to
violate some of its debt agreements.  The company said it is making “substantial progress” in
strengthening its financial reporting and restating earnings for
its past two fiscal years. The restatement’s timing hasn’t been
set, the San Francisco-based company said today in a statement.  Hiring Dean Bradley suggests that Diamond, the seller of
Emerald snack nuts and Pop Secret popcorn, may soon work to
restructure its debt. The earnings restatement probably will put
the company in violation of its debt covenants, and Diamond will
need to negotiate new terms with its banks, said  Edward Aaron ,
an analyst with RBC Capital Markets Corp. in Denver.  “The banks are concerned about Diamond’s leverage
situation,” Aaron said in a telephone interview. “They need to
find ways to placate the lenders. The banks will want to be
protected.”  Diamond rose 4.8 percent to $25.70 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  had declined 24 percent this year before today.  Diamond is working to repair its business after an internal
investigation revealed that payments made to walnut growers were
accounted for in the wrong periods, leading to the ouster of its
chief executive officer and chief financial officer last month.
Diamond’s bid to acquire the Pringles brand from  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG)  also collapsed, with  Kellogg Co. (K)  buying the unit a
week after the probe’s results were announced.  ‘Momentum’ Payments  In February, Diamond’s board said its three-month
investigation, later taken up by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, concluded that about $20 million in
“continuity” payments made to walnut growers in August 2010
and about $60 million in “momentum” payments in September 2011
weren’t accounted for in the correct periods. The board also
identified material weaknesses in the company’s financial
reporting controls.  Director Rick Wolford is serving as CEO, and Alix Partners
LP’s Michael Murphy is CFO while the company searches for
permanent replacements. They replaced former CEO Michael Mendes
and ex-CFO Steven M. Neil.  While the company is working to get its balance sheet and
financial reporting in order, the company said sales for its
snack lines are on the rise. Diamond said that for the 12 weeks
ended Feb. 18, sales of Emerald snack nuts grew 29 percent
compared with 3 percent for the entire snack nut market. In the
same period, sales growth of the Pop-Secret Popcorn and Kettle
chips also outpaced the overall market.  The results show the core businesses are fundamentally
strong,  Tim Ramey , senior analyst with D.A. Davidson & Co. wrote
in a research report today.  “This has always been an exciting growth story, and it
remains that,” the  Lake Oswego , Oregon-based analyst wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  