-- Dim Sum Sales to Slow on Lack of Investor Protection, Fitch Says
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-03-13T05:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/dim-sum-sales-to-slow-on-lack-of-investor-protection-fitch-says.html
Growth in offshore yuan notes will
 slow  this year as investor concern over a “paucity” of
protection measures outweighs potential gains from Chinese
growth, according to Fitch Ratings Ltd.  So-called Dim Sum bonds, or yuan-denominated securities
sold in  Hong Kong , “lack many of the covenants investors expect
to see in offshore high-yield bonds from the same issuers,”
according to an e-mailed media release from the credit rating
company today.  The covenants that are missing include cross-default
clauses tying the issuing borrower back to the entity that
generates the cash, negative pledges preventing the company from
using any of its assets for other debt obligations, and
restrictions on future borrowings, according to the release.  “Compared to  U.S. dollar  high-yield bond documents,
offshore yuan bond documents have limited operational disclosure
beyond the audited financial statements of the issuing
entities,” Seoul-based Matt Jamieson, head of Asia-Pacific
research at Fitch, said in the release. “Out of the 39 Chinese
corporates which issued Dim Sum bonds in 2011, only seven had an
international rating. Baosteel is the only Chinese corporate
with an international rating to issue Dim Sum bonds this year.”  Another factor dissuading many international investors from
buying Dim Sum bonds is the absence of maturities longer than
three-years, Fitch said.  “More frequent issues of long-term debt by the Chinese
government and its quasi-sovereign agencies would help establish
a deeper yield curve that can be used as a benchmark to price
other issues,” according to the release.  Dim Sum bond sales more than quadrupled to 151.4 billion
yuan ($24 billion) last year from 35.7 billion yuan in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales this year total
38.2 billion yuan, a 167 percent increase on the same period of
2011, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  