-- Disney Holders Elect Board, Vote CEO Iger as New Chairman
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-13T20:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/disney-holders-brush-aside-proxy-advisers-to-elect-board-iger-as-chairman.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  shareholders, after
weighing protests by two proxy advisers and a state treasurer,
elected all 10 nominees to the board, including Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger .  Shareholders representing at least 73 percent of the votes
present backed the nominees, the Burbank, California-based theme
park, film and television company said at today’s annual meeting
in Kansas City, Missouri, citing preliminary data.  “The stock’s at $43, we’re happy,” Roy Patrick Disney
said in an interview at the meeting.  The voting signaled management at Disney, the world’s
largest entertainment company, continues to enjoy the support of
investors, with a few exceptions. Disney said on March 1 that
the stock has at least doubled what comparable companies have
returned since October 2005, when Iger took over as CEO.  Stockholders approved the company’s executive pay plan in
an advisory vote, with 57 percent of the shares present backing
the proposal. Last year’s vote drew 77 percent approval, proxy
adviser  Glass Lewis  & Co. said in a report.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. and Connecticut
Treasurer Denise L. Nappier opposed four members of the
governance and nominating committee. Glass Lewis opposed
compensation panel members, citing deficient link between
performance and executive pay, and a fifth nominee, Orin Smith,
who served on the audit committee of a seized lender.  Board Moves  A third adviser, Egan Jones, backed the board slate in a
March 6 report, saying the audit, compensation and governance
panels were composed of independent, outside directors.  After the shareholder meeting, Disney’s board formally
elected Iger as chairman and designated Smith, a former chief
executive officer of Starbucks Corp., to serve as independent
lead director, according to a company statement.  Investors should have been consulted when the company acted
to recombine the top jobs, ISS said, while Nappier called the
move “regressive.” Disney split the jobs in 2004 under
pressure from investors who said it would improve governance.  Executive pay is “entirely in line with”  peers  including
 CBS Corp. (CBS) , Comcast Corp.,  News Corp ., Time Warner Inc. and
Viacom Inc., Disney said in a March 1 filing. Combining the two
top jobs is part of a  succession plan  that will “enable a
healthy mentoring process,” the company said.  Disney announced in October that Chairman John E. Pepper
Jr., a former chairman and CEO of  Procter & Gamble Co ., would
retire at the meeting today and that the company would name a
new CEO to succeed Iger in March 2015. His contract as chairman
runs until June 2016.  Walt Lived Here  Disney, operator of theme parks in the U.S.,  Asia  and
 Europe , holds its annual meetings in different cities, typically
ones where the company has operations. Founder  Walt Disney  grew
up in Kansas City.  Disney, owner of the ESPN cable network and ABC television,
rose 3.9 percent to $44.01 at the close of New York  trading . The
stock has gained 17 percent this year.  Iger announced plans at the meeting to create jobs for
1,000 returning veterans over the next three years, part of a
program to help military personnel and their families adjust to
civilian life. Disney also will invest in nonprofit groups that
provide training and other support for veterans, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  