-- Dollar Rallies After Fed Statement; Yen Slumps on BOJ
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-13T21:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/dollar-gains-as-federal-reserve-sees-improving-data-damping-stimulus-bets.html
The dollar gained against the euro
and yen as the Federal Reserve policy makers raised their
assessment of the economy as the labor market gathered strength
and refrained from additional steps to lower borrowing costs.  The 17-nation euro fell against most of its 16 major
counterparts as a European Central Bank council member said
policy makers are discussing ways to withdraw some of the
emergency cash they injected into the banking system. The yen
declined to its weakest in almost 11 months versus the dollar
after the  Bank of Japan  indicated the central bank will keep
using monetary policy to tackle deflation. The pound rallied as
U.K. housing prices climbed to a 19-month high.  “There were no changes to the statement other than
acknowledging a slightly improved labor force, noting that crude
oil is higher and would temporarily push inflation higher and
that strains in the financial markets have eased,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia in
Toronto. “It leaves the door open to almost anything in the
future, which for today is neutral for the  U.S. dollar .”  The dollar strengthened 0.5 percent to $1.3084 against the
euro at 5 p.m. in New York. It traded 0.9 percent stronger at
82.94 yen after touching 83.09.  Japan ’s currency declined 0.3
percent to 108.53 versus the euro.  Fed View  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which met today in
 Washington , kept the central bank’s benchmark  interest rate 
target unchanged at zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since
December 2008. “The  unemployment rate  has declined notably in
recent months, but remains elevated,” the central bank said in
a statement.  “Most of what you’ve read in the statement was what it
felt like the market was expecting, with acknowledgment of
better data, but no change in policy,” said John Shin, senior
G-10 foreign exchange strategist at Bank of America Corp. in New
York. “The FOMC didn’t do anything to tilt policy expectations
in either direction.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.3 percent to 80.122 after the
statement. The gauge was earlier buoyed as retail sales in the
U.S. rose 1.1 percent in February, according Commerce Department
figures.  Shirakawa Weakens Yen  The yen weakened earlier after Bank of Japan Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  indicated the central bank will keep using
monetary policy as a tool to tackle deflation.  Shirakawa and his board members kept the benchmark interest
rate between zero and 0.1 percent, the central bank said in a
statement today. Policy makers left the bank’s asset-purchase
fund at 30 trillion yen ($360 billion) after unexpectedly
boosting bond buying by 10 trillion yen at the Feb. 14 meeting.
The measures contributed to weakening the yen and helped boost
stocks, Shirakawa told reporters in  Tokyo .  The dollar may strengthen to 85 yen by the middle of this
year as the greenback’s 100-day moving average rose above its
200-day moving average, forming a so-called golden cross, said
 Koji Fukaya , Credit Suisse Group AG’s chief currency strategist
in Tokyo.  Implied volatility of three-month options on the dollar-yen
currency pair declined to 10.85 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It advanced to 11.21 percent yesterday,
the most since Sept. 30. The implied volatility of three-month
euro-dollar options declined to 10.73 percent from 11.36 percent
a week ago.  Euro Losses  The 17-nation euro touched its weakest level in a month
versus the dollar.  “All council members are aware that non-standard measures
create risks and have to be unwound,” Jens Weidmann, who heads
 Germany ’s Bundesbank, said at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
today. “We need this discussion and it is taking place. The
time frame depends on several things, including how the
environment develops.”  Weidmann wrote a letter to ECB President  Mario Draghi  about
the risks the central bank is taking, fueling speculation of a
rift.  Sterling gained 1 percent to 83.31 pence per euro after the
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors home-price gauge
increased 3 points from January to minus 13, the strongest
reading since July 2010. The pound rose 0.4 percent to $1.5705.
It fell to as little as $1.5603 yesterday, the weakest level
since Jan. 25.  Norway’s krone was 0.4 percent weaker against the dollar at
5.6985 before the central bank meets tomorrow in Oslo. Verbal
intervention has increased in an attempt to contain the krone’s
ascent after the currency climbed to a nine-year high of 7.3884
per euro this month.  Japan’s currency slid 5.4 percent during the past month in
the worst performance among the 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
appreciated 0.6 percent, and the euro advanced 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  