-- Draghi Says Crisis Lull Must Spur Governments, Banks to Act
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-03-13T13:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/draghi-says-euro-crisis-lull-must-spur-governments-banks-to-act.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  called on banks and governments to make the most of
a lull in the sovereign debt crisis as he seeks to get the ECB
back to its main job of ensuring  price stability .  Policy makers “see continued signs of stabilization” in
the economy and banks “should use this currently more benign
environment to strengthen their resilience further, including by
retaining earnings, cutting dividends and bonuses,” Draghi said
in a speech in Paris today. “The financial system should serve
the economy, not the other way round.”  The ECB has shouldered the main burden of fighting the
three-year-old crisis by keeping banks afloat, cutting  interest
rates  to a record low and buying distressed governments’ bonds.
The unprecedented measures have swelled its balance sheet to
more than 3 trillion euros ($3.9 trillion), prompting Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann to write a letter to Draghi warning that
the central bank may be taking on too much risk.  Draghi appealed to the governments, saying that the ECB’s
contribution  “needs to be complemented by the work of national
policy makers” and that “countries should use this phase of
financial stabilization to make further progress on their
program of economic reform.”  The ECB’s two three-year loans, which totaled a record 1
trillion euros, have been “central in banks returning to play
their vital role in the real economy,” he said. The diversity
of the 800 institutions bidding for the second tranche of funds
at the end of February bring the money “closer to households
and the small and medium-sized enterprises” than before.  Inflation Outlook  While “inflation risks are not materializing at the
present time” from a 40 percent jump in  oil prices  since
October, the ECB is “continuously alert to the risks of
inflation” and “all the necessary tools to address potential
upside risks to medium-term price stability are fully
available,” Draghi said.  Inflation in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, already
accelerated in February, quickening to 2.5 percent from 2.3
percent, well above the ECB’s 2 percent limit.  Draghi forecast on March 8 that that euro-region inflation
will average 2.4 percent this year and 1.6 percent in 2013, up
from previous estimates of 2 percent and 1.5 percent.  “We at the ECB have a steadfast commitment to price
stability,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  