-- Palin’s Specter Haunts Romney Campaign: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-03-13T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/the-specter-of-sarah-palin-haunts-romney-s-campaign.html
For a while there, it looked as if
Republicans might be getting somewhere with women.  John McCain  lost the  female vote  -- big time, as  Dick Cheney   would say  -- in 2008. But in 2010 almost as many women
voted for Republicans as did for Democrats, giving the party
control of the House. And compared with his two Republican
rivals -- the much-married  Newt Gingrich  and  Rick Santorum , a
character out of the 1950s with antediluvian anti-birth-control
views --  Mitt Romney  is pretty easy on the female voter’s eyes.  Against President  Barack Obama , Romney’s appeal fades away.
According to the latest Washington Post-ABC News poll, Obama
still has a  six-point lead  over Romney among women. A Pew survey
has the gender gap worse than it was in 2008, when Obama won 56
percent of women: He’s now drawing  59 percent . Even with the
polls tightening and higher gas prices rankling both sexes,
Obama maintains his lead with the fairer one.  Obama could sit back and let Republicans drive away women
all by themselves. He doesn’t need much more than the macho
anti-woman cultural efforts at the federal (see the Blunt
amendment) and state level (see Virginia’s vaginal probe bill).
Thanks to the never-ending primaries, Romney, with proud “You
might be a redneck if” comedian Jeff Foxworthy at his side, has
to keep wooing the grits-loving varmint hunters in his base.  His Feminist Side  So Romney dare not show his feminist side, if he has one.
Instead he’s quietly using Ann Romney more frequently to suggest
he’s more than a head of hair and a pair of dad jeans who
doesn’t mind firing people.  Obama’s not resting. At some point the gender gap can grow
so wide that the president can lose every Joe the Plumber out
there and still win. To that end, March is the  month of the
woman  for the Obama campaign -- with mailings to a million of
them in battleground states, along with hundreds of special
events, house parties and phone banks, all culminating in a yet-
to-be-revealed extravaganza at the end of the month.  What’s Romney to do? Before deciding, he should be forced
to watch the movie “Game Change,” on  HBO  this month, just as  Al Gore  was supposedly assigned to watch that  “Saturday Night Live” 
skit in 2000 to show him what not to do in his debate with
 George W. Bush . “Game Change” is not a documentary, of course,
although Wolf Blitzer plays himself, and not everything in it
actually happened. Then again, none of its basic facts have been
challenged by anyone except Sarah Palin, whose camp handed out
fliers (to me, they failed to make the case) at the movie’s
Washington premiere.  At any rate, it’s not the facts that are so disturbing --
it’s the movie’s premise. It’s hard to believe that McCain and
the country’s leading political strategists would be so cavalier
as to select a running mate so manifestly unqualified as Palin.  Romney would never do such a thing, you say? But the ease
with which the calculation was made to choose Palin -- and stick
with her -- shows how our politics have become purely
competitive. You do what you have to do.  The film shows politics, and politicians, at their most
craven. McCain is suffering from a crippling deficit with women,
and the cry goes out to find one. Across the screen flash images
of female officials with solid records, such as Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of  Texas . They are dismissed as too dull. With
little thought and only five days to vet her, McCain’s wise men
choose the more exciting, pro-life, pro-gun (she hunts moose!),
pro-Iraq (she has a son serving), and pro-God governor of
 Alaska .  Troubling Ignorance  In short, Palin is to be Ginger to McCain’s  Fred Astaire .
But it quickly becomes obvious, in the movie at least, that she
doesn’t do anything better than he does -- though, granted, she
does do it in high heels.  McCain and Co. are shaken by Palin’s ignorance. She doesn’t
know the difference between North and South Korea, or between
the queen of  England  and the prime minister. She doesn’t seem to
understand what the Fed does, or the most basic facts about
 Russia . She is an emotional roller coaster.  None of it matters. As long she keeps attracting adoring
crowds, McCain’s advisers are determined to cover up her
incompetence and slog on. If it hadn’t been for the economic
collapse, she could have been the proverbial “heartbeat away”
from the presidency -- in this case, the heart of a 72-year-old
man who has lived a war hero’s life.  So much for the horror movie. Back in the real world, only
one woman is in the top five choices for the vice presidential
nomination,  according to Intrade : Susana Martinez, who was
elected governor of  New Mexico  -- thanks in part to a Palin
endorsement -- in 2010. She could have been bred in a lab
alongside Palin: female, young, charismatic, skeptical on global
warming and collective bargaining, knows how to shoot a gun.  What’s more, she’s Hispanic and carried 40 percent of that
vote while Republicans nationally are lagging with that group by
 5-to-1 . That doesn’t mean she’s pro-Hispanic. She’s against
illegal immigrants having driver’s licenses and cool to the
Dream Act, which would grant a path to citizenship for the
children of illegal immigrants who join the military or graduate
from college.  All of this may make her sound great to Romney, who has
moved markedly right on immigration. But if he finds himself
contemplating another female first-term governor as a running
mate, I suggest he make some time to sit down and watch “Game
Change.” I’ll spring for the popcorn.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 