-- Heating Oil Rises as U.S. Retail Sales Climb Most in Five Months
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J .   P o w e l l
-- 2012-03-13T13:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/heating-oil-rises-as-u-s-retail-sales-climb-most-in-five-months.html
Heating oil and gasoline rose as
U.S.  retail sales  climbed the most in five months in February,
increasing optimism about the economic recovery and fuel demand.  Futures rose as retail sales gained 1.1 percent, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington . Federal Reserve
officials are expected later today to reaffirm a commitment to
keep  interest rates  low. In Europe, German investor confidence
jumped to a 21-month high in March.  “Some of the negative sentiments that have weighted on the
market have eased,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker
at Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut. “German investor
confidence is up, retail sales have firmed the market and the
Fed is expected to keep interest rates the same.”  April-delivery heating oil rose 0.66 cent to $3.2495 a
gallon at 9:43 a.m. on the exchange. Prices touched $3.2697
before paring gains after the dollar rose against the euro,
reducing the investment appeal of commodities.  Demand improved in 11 of 13 industry categories, including
auto dealers and clothing stores, according to Commerce
Department data.  Sixty-one percent of respondents in a March 9-12 poll by
Bloomberg News said Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will refrain from
any action to expand the Fed’s $2.89 trillion balance sheet this
year. The  Federal Open Market Committee  plans to release a
statement at about 2:15 p.m. today after its meeting in
Washington.  German Expectations  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said today its index of investor and analyst expectations, which
aims to predict economic developments six months in advance,
advanced to 22.3 from 5.4 in February.  Gasoline for April delivery rose 0.61 cent to $3.3291 a
gallon, after touching $3.345.  “The dollar rally capped the retail sales boost,”
McGillian said. “Without a real geopolitical crisis on our
hands and no supply problem, the market is looking for its next
catalyst.”  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.4
cent to $3.805 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. Prices
have gained 16 percent this year and are 7 percent higher than a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  