-- EBF Plans to Start Dollar Benchmark Rate to Rival Libor in April
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-03-13T16:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/ebf-plans-to-start-dollar-benchmark-rate-to-rival-libor-in-april.html
The European Banking Federation,
which represents lenders in the region, will start calculating a
dollar interest rate for the first time next month as the
accuracy of the  London  interbank offered rate is questioned.  The rate will initially be set through a daily survey of 20
banks, increasing to 30 firms by the end of the year, said
Cedric Quemener, a manager at Euribor-EBF, the division that
will be responsible for the new lending rate. The Brussels-based
group already oversees the Euro interbank offered rate, or
Euribor, the level at which European banks say a “prime bank”
could borrow for different periods in euros.  Dollar Euribor will compete with Libor, the benchmark for
$360 trillion of securities worldwide that is managed by the
 British Bankers’ Association  in London. The EBF isn’t the first
to try to challenge Libor’s hegemony.  ICAP Plc (IAP) , the biggest
broker of transactions between lenders, started the New York
Funding Rate, a measure of U.S. bank rates, in 2008.  “We thought about having the European banks being more
represented in a dollar fixing, along with international big
players in the European market, like Chinese banks,” Quemener
said in an e-mail today.  Regulators from  Canada  to the U.S. and  Japan  are probing
whether banks lied to hide their true cost of borrowing and
traders colluded to rig Libor, the basis for  interest rates  on
securities from mortgages to derivatives. European Union
regulators are also probing whether banks colluded while setting
Euribor.  Alternative Rate  The  EBF  first started discussions about starting an
alternative dollar rate to Libor in 2010 in response to demands
from market participants. The EBF spent the last six months
testing the rate. Euribor contributors are asked each day in a
survey how much a “prime bank” other than themselves would pay
to borrow in euros for different maturities. The dollar rate
will be set on a similar basis.  “We understand that the launch of this product is a
response to consultation between Euribor-EBF and its
stakeholders,” BBA spokesman  Brian Mairs  said in an e-mailed
statement. “We support any move that offers more choice to
market participants.”  Libor was inaugurated in the mid-1980s as banks and
investors sought a dollar rate that was set outside the U.S. in
the wake of the previous decade’s oil crises, which saw Arab and
Soviet producers park proceeds from dollar-denominated sales of
crude with London banks to shelter revenue from confiscation by
U.S. authorities.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  