-- Hedge Funds’ Lawsuit Risk Rises After Galleon Probe
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-03-14T11:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/hedge-fund-lawsuit-risk-rises-on-galleon-mf-global-insurance-rates-show.html
Hedge funds ’ risk of lawsuits is
rising after regulatory probes of insider trading at Galleon
Group LLC and the collapse of MF Global Holdings Ltd., insurance
rates show.  Insurers are quoting rates that are 5 percent to 10 percent
higher for coverage that protects hedge funds against government
investigations and investor lawsuits, after more than two years
of rate declines, according to an e-mailed statement today from
SKCG Group, a  White Plains , New York-based insurance broker.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) ,  Chubb Corp. (CB)  and  XL
Group Plc (XL)  are among insurers that write the policies, according
to Richard Canter, SKCG’s president and chief operating officer.
A hedge fund with $200 million in assets under management
seeking $5 million of coverage could expect to pay about $75,000
annually, up from less than $70,000 six months ago, he said.
That compares with about $125,000 in late 2009.  “Insurance companies want to get back to that level,”
Canter, whose firm serves about 160 hedge funds worldwide, said
in a phone interview today. “The aggressiveness of the
regulators” is driving prices higher, he said.  Property and casualty insurers are raising rates after
natural disaster losses last year hurt underwriting results and
near record-low bond yields pressured investment income.
Regulators have stepped up enforcement actions against asset
managers, leading some carriers to project higher claims costs
from professional-liability lawsuits. After the 2008 credit
crisis, more insurers entered the market, increasing supply and
driving down prices, Canter said.  ‘Much Worse’  “The  insurance industry  thinks this is going to get much
worse, not better,” Richard Maloy Jr., chief executive officer
of insurance broker Maloy Risk Services Inc., said in a phone
interview last week. “You’re going to see way more
investigations” and insurers expect they’ll incur the cost.  Professional liability coverage in general pays a hedge
fund’s legal expenses if employees are the subject of a
regulatory probe or legal action by the government or investors.
The policies are triggered once allegations are made, and before
fault has been determined. Insurers can deny or try to claw back
claims payments if policy terms are violated. Most hedge funds
allocate the cost of coverage to investors, said SKCG’s Canter.  Chubb raised renewal rates for professional liability
coverage in the U.S. in the fourth quarter, the first increase
since 2009, the Warren, New Jersey-based insurer said on a
conference call in January. Policies that indemnify crime
allegations hurt underwriting results in 2011.  Insider Trading  The Galleon probe, which leveraged the widespread use of
FBI wiretaps for the first time in an  insider-trading 
investigation, led to convictions of more than two dozen people,
including the firm’s co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. director  Rajat Gupta  was charged in October
with passing nonpublic information to the hedge fund manager.
Rajaratnam has appealed his May 11 conviction, and Gupta has
denied wrongdoing.  MF Global, the broker-dealer run by former Goldman Sachs
Co-chairman John Corzine, filed for bankruptcy Oct. 31 after a
$6.3 billion bet on the bonds of some of  Europe ’s most indebted
nations prompted regulator concerns and a credit downgrade.
Government investigators have been analyzing events prior to
firm’s collapse, when as much as $1.6 billion in client funds
went missing, according to a person with knowledge of the
probes, who isn’t authorized to speak publicly on the matter.  MF Global  Corzine and other executives face at least two potential
class actions over the collapse. Futures customers of MF Global
Inc. have been competing to lead a lawsuit over the alleged
theft of $1.2 billion of their assets. An investor suit led by
the Virginia Retirement System alleges that Corzine made
misleading statements that inflated the prices of MF Global
securities.  MF Global’s insurance unit issued $190 million of liability
policies for Corzine, other professionals and the company
through May to cover costs of defending against allegations of
wrongdoing,  Louis Freeh , the trustee for the parent company,
said in a Feb. 3 court filing in  Manhattan . The policies don’t
belong to the bankrupt estate and the coverage should be
continued, said Freeh, a former director of the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  