-- Employers in U.S. Plan to Add Jobs Next Quarter, Manpower Says
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/employers-in-u-s-plan-to-add-jobs-next-quarter-manpower-says.html
Employers in the U.S. plan to boost
hiring during the next three months as the pace of economic
growth picks up, a survey showed.  Manpower Inc. (MAN) , the world’s second-largest provider of
temporary workers, said today its second-quarter employment
index climbed to 10 percent, the highest level since late 2008,
from 9 percent in the previous three months on a seasonally
adjusted basis. That marked a second consecutive gain.  An improving job market puts Americans in a better position
to increase spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy. At the same time, rising gas prices are weighing on
household budgets and may lead to fewer purchases of non-
essential items in coming months.  “Positive hiring intentions tell us that employers are
seeing increased demand for their products and services, and
that is good news for the labor market,” Jonas Prising,
president of the Americas for Milwaukee-based Manpower, said in
a statement. “Although we are not out of the woods yet, our
data shows that this hiring progression is increasingly solid.”  The share of survey respondents who expect to add workers
from April through June rose to 18 percent, the most since the
third quarter of 2011. The percentage of employers planning to
cut back on hiring fell to 6 percent, the lowest in a year, from
9 percent the previous period.  The second-quarter employment index was up from 8 percent
in the same period of 2011 on a seasonally adjusted basis. The
measure subtracts the share of employers planning to cut jobs
from those looking to hire, and adjusts the results for seasonal
variations.  Little Change  Seventy-two percent of employers said they anticipate staff
levels will not change in the next three months of this year,
compared with 70 percent in the previous quarter.  Other reports have signaled the job market is healing.
Payrolls grew by 227,000 in February and the  unemployment rate 
held at a three-year low of 8.3 percent, according to Labor
Department figures released last week.  Today’s Manpower report showed employers in all 13
industries surveyed had a positive hiring outlook, up from 12 in
the prior quarter. Construction, transportation and utilities,
and leisure and hospitality companies showed the greatest
improvement.  Employers in all four major U.S. regions in the Manpower
survey expected hiring to increase in the second quarter of 2012
on a seasonally adjusted basis. The West and the Northeast had
the weakest outlooks.  Manpower interviewed more than 18,000 employers in the U.S.
The survey is conducted quarterly, and the margin of error for
U.S. data is plus or minus 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  