-- English Regions Rich and Poor Defy Cameron Caps on Local Taxes
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-03-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/english-regions-rich-and-poor-defy-cameron-government-caps-on-local-taxes.html
Two of the richest and poorest
parts of England are defying the government over a freeze on
local taxes as they try to maintain funding for services.  Middlesbrough, a town in northeast England with  Britain’s
highest unemployment rate , and Surrey, a county in the southeast
with a third of Middlesbrough’s proportion of benefit claimants
and 55 percent higher wages, said they will increase council tax
in April. They turned down offers of compensation from Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s administration to leave the levy
unchanged, saying such a move now would leave them worse off in
the future.  While the two municipalities represent a minority balking
at the freeze, they show how the biggest austerity measures in a
generation are affecting areas at different ends of the economic
spectrum. The U.K. accounts for about a third of the budget cuts
taking place in the 10 largest European Union countries between
2010 and 2015, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “I accept that these difficult issues must be dealt with
robustly, and I am on record as agreeing with many of the
measures implemented by this government,” Middlesbrough Mayor
Ray Mallon, an independent, said in a speech before the local
council approved the increase on March 5. “But I do not accept
the rationale put forward by the government in relation to the
proposed council-tax freeze. It is, to say the least,
financially illogical.”  Middlesbrough will lift council tax, which helps fund the
bulk of local services including garbage collection, libraries
and community care, by 3.5 percent. Surrey is putting up bills
by 2.99 percent, it said in a statement last month.  Signing Up  As of Feb. 24, 306 of 421 municipalities in  England  decided
to freeze or reduce local taxation, according to the latest
tally from the  Department for Communities and Local Government .  “A minority of out-of-touch authorities that seem
unwilling to accept our offer should face up to the fact that it
is unnecessary and it will hit hard-working households in the
pocket,” Eric Pickles, the secretary of state for communities,
said in a Feb. 27 statement. “Residents will spot that many
neighboring councils are able to offer to freeze.”  Middlesbrough and Surrey encapsulate the disparity between
England’s former mining, steel and shipbuilding heartlands in
the north and the more prosperous regions around London.  A town of 140,000, Middlesbrough has a jobless rate of  15.1
percent , and 23.6 percent of its population receive state
financial support, according to data from the  Office for
National Statistics  from the second quarter of 2011. In Surrey,
 3 percent of people  are out of work and 7.4 percent get aid.  Ten-Year Costs  Middlesbrough council was offered 1.25 million pounds by
the government in compensation for the freeze on bills for the
next financial year, Mallon said. Officials calculated that
would cost the town 20 million pounds over 10 years because of
the rebasing of the tax take for future increases.  Surrey, the commuter region south of London with a
population of about 1.1 million, also  opposes the freeze  after
being offered 14 million pounds for a year.  “Not every council is in the same position and one size
doesn’t fit all,” Surrey Council leader David Hodge, a member
of Cameron’s  Conservative Party , told BBC radio on March 1. “By
taking the government grant we would have created a  black hole
of 70 million pounds  in five years, wiping out our road-
maintenance budget for two years.”  Budget cuts at local level will average 28 percent over
four years, the Local Government Association said. It’s the
second consecutive year of the tax freeze, which all councils
implemented in the financial year that ends in March, Pickles’s
office said.  “Because the scale of the cuts is so big and so little has
taken effect, the question is, when people see the whites of the
eyes of the cuts, will the government stick to its guns?”
Stuart Adam, an economist at the  Institute for Fiscal Studies ,
said by telephone from  London  last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  