-- Merkel Says Europe Is ‘Good Way’ Up Mountain, Not Over It
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-03-13T23:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/merkel-says-europe-is-good-way-up-mountain-not-over-yet-1-.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said that European efforts to resolve the debt crisis are making
progress, even as “imbalances” in euro-area economies show
that the task is far from complete.  “We’ve come a good way along the mountain path, but we’re
not completely over the mountain,” Merkel told reporters in
Rome late yesterday after talks with Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti . “I suspect that in the next few years there will
continue to be new mountains -- there won’t be a celebratory
event in which we say we’re over the mountain and now we can sit
among the trees and say that we’ve done it.”  Merkel praised Monti’s “bold” efforts since taking office
on Nov. 16 to overhaul Italy’s economy, which include 20 billion
euros in austerity measures and steps to deregulate services
amid surging Italian  bond yields  that threatened to rip apart
the currency region. Aided by European Central Bank liquidity
measures, Italian 10-year borrowing costs have fallen to 4.89
percent from a euro-era record of 7.26 percent on Nov. 25.  Monti, a former European Union competition commissioner,
said  Italy  has “arrested” the crisis though not yet overcome
it. “Italy still has homework to do,” he said. Italy prefers
to rely on its “own strengths” rather than seek any external
aid during the worst moments of the crisis.  ‘Adequate’ Firewalls  Monti reiterated Italy’s support for “adequate” financial
firewalls for the region. Euro-area finance ministers meeting in
Brussels two days ago asked the European Commission, which has
backed the largest possible rescue pool for distressed member
states, to propose options on the region’s firewall before a
decision at a March 30-31 meeting in Copenhagen.  Merkel, asked about boosting the region’s crisis-fighting
war chest, declined to comment. Her Cabinet is due to take up a
bill in Berlin today that authorizes her government to help set
up the permanent rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism,
known as the ESM. Even so,  Germany  is the biggest holdout on
plans to lift a 500 billion-euro ($655 billion) ceiling on
bailout lending.  Euro states must avoid “creating wrong incentives that
would prompt some to believe that they can get by without
determination to solve their problems,” Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in Brussels yesterday.  Led by the U.S., major world powers have held back on
increasing the International Monetary Fund’s crisis-fighting
resources until the 17-nation euro area provides more self-help
in the form of a bolstered firewall. Schaeuble said there’s a
“certain link” between the decision on the ESM to be taken by
euro finance ministers at the end of March and a bigger role for
the IMF.  ESM Capacity  Europe  plans to equip the ESM with 80 billion euros in cash
and give it the right to call another 620 billion euros in an
emergency. The total would enable it to lend 500 billion euros
and maintain a buffer to garner an AAA credit rating when it is
set up in July. Germany has been the main holdout against
proposals to let the ESM tap the remaining 250 billion euros in
the temporary fund, the European Financial Stability Facility.  “We would like to see some combining of the resources,”
French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said in Brussels. “We
are confident we will see some advances in the next fortnight.”  In  Rome , Merkel said that “huge risks” lie ahead. “We
have these imbalances -- what we’re referring to as the Target2
balances -- they are one of many indicators that we’re not back
in full balance,” she said.  She and Monti said they shared the same position on a
possible financial-transaction tax, saying it should be applied
to all EU countries. They also said they agreed that Europe must
start to focus more on economic expansion, with Merkel saying
that an EU summit in June will focus on growth.  Monti, asked about the possibility that he could take over
from Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  as head of
the group of euro finance ministers, suggested he was too busy.
“Do you think an Italian prime minister has time for other
jobs?” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  