-- Tesoro’s Goff Says Talk of Union Strikes Are ‘Just Rumors’
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-03-13T17:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/tesoro-s-goff-says-talk-of-union-strikes-are-just-rumors-1-.html
Talk of potential worker strikes at
five  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  refineries involved in contract negotiations
is “just rumors,” said Greg Goff, the company’s chief
executive officer.  The San Antonio-based company has been in talks with union
locals at the oil plants since January and is working toward
agreements, Goff said during the American Fuel & Petrochemical
Manufacturers’ annual meeting in  San Diego .  “We’re in discussions all the time with the union,” Goff
said in an interview. “They seem to be going OK.”  Workers at all five refineries, which total 508,000 barrels
a day of capacity, rejected the company’s final offers on a three-
year contract last month. Union crews at the 170,000-barrel-a-
day  Golden Eagle (TEMTCRUD)  refinery in Northern California, the largest
plant in Tesoro’s system, became the first to authorize a strike
March 5.  Tesoro plans to run some refinery operations with other
employees if there’s a strike, Tina Barbee, a company
spokeswoman in  San Antonio , said in an e-mail March 6.  “We currently have no intention to permanently replace
represented employees with non-represented employees,” Barbee
said.  Union Opposition  United Steelworkers, which represents more than 1,300
employees at six Tesoro refineries, said the company wants
authority to “unilaterally change or eliminate the health care,
pension and 401(k) plans and vacation policies.”  “Our members are engaged in good-faith bargaining, but
Tesoro seems unwilling to reach a reasonable agreement on this
important issue and appears determined to provoke a fight with
our members and our union,” Gary Beevers, the union’s
international vice president, said in an e-mailed statement
March 6.  The other four refineries in negotiation are in  Anacortes (TEANCRUD) ,
 Washington ;  Kapolei (TEKACRUD) ,  Hawaii ;  Mandan (TEMACRUD) ,  North Dakota ; and  Salt Lake
City (TESLCRUD) . Workers there may follow Martinez with strike
authorizations if they don’t reach settlements with the company.
Unions at all five plants have been working on 24-hour rolling
extensions of a contract that expired Jan. 31.  The union contract at Tesoro’s 97,000-barrel-a-day
 Wilmington (SHWCCRUD)  refinery in Southern California expires April 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  