-- Mets Owners Say Jury Must Hear of SEC ‘Inaction’ on Madoff
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-03-13T22:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/mets-owners-say-jury-must-hear-of-sec-inaction-on-madoff-1-.html
Hall of Fame pitcher  Sandy Koufax 
and former  Manhattan   District Attorney  Robert Morgenthau will be
called as witnesses in a trial of whether the owners of the  New
York Mets  can keep $303 million they withdrew from  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.  The trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm claims the owners,
Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, blinded themselves to evidence of
Madoff’s fraud and shouldn’t be allowed to keep the principal
they withdrew before the fraud became public in 2008. Wilpon and
Katz intend to use Koufax and Morgenthau to show the jury they
were unaware Madoff was a con man, they said in court papers
filed yesterday.  “Mr. Koufax will testify about how he came to open his
account and the positive things Mr. Wilpon told him about
investing with Madoff Securities,” according to the filing.
“It strains credulity to think that Mr. Wilpon would expose his
oldest and closest friend to potential financial ruin -- for no
benefit to Mr. Wilpon himself -- if he subjectively believed
that Madoff Securities might be operating a Ponzi scheme.”  Koufax and Morgenthau were named on a list of 12 witnesses,
including Wilpon and Katz themselves, who the owners plan to
call at the trial. The disclosures came in a flurry of court
papers filed yesterday and today, giving a preview of the
evidence both sides expect to present in the trial scheduled to
begin March 19 in Manhattan federal court.  Profits and Principal  The trustee, New York lawyer  Irving Picard , sued Wilpon and
Katz in 2010, along with dozens of family members, trusts and
related businesses, trying to get $1 billion in profits and
principal they withdrew from their Madoff accounts. In a series
of rulings, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff has limited the
amount Picard may claim.  Today, Rakoff dismissed 32 of the defendants saying they
weren’t affected by the trustee’s remaining claims against the
Mets owners. The dismissed entities include Brooklyn Baseball
Company LLC, Charles 15 Associates and Sterling American
Property III LP, according to Rakoff’s court order.  Rakoff ruled on March 5 that the Mets defendants must give
up as much as $83 million in fictitious profits from Madoff’s
 Ponzi scheme  and face a trial over whether they acted in bad
faith, a decision that could cost them the $303 million in
principal withdrawn from their Madoff accounts. In the ruling,
Rakoff said he is “skeptical” that Picard can prove Wilpon and
Katz acted in bad faith.  Nine Jurors  Rakoff last week said nine jurors will hear the case and
set other rules for the trial. The parties said they expect the
trial to take 10 days, which may result in a verdict before the
team opens the season against the  Atlanta Braves  on April 5.  Wilpon and Katz said in court filings they should be able
to tell jurors about the failure of the Securities and Exchange
Commission to take action against Madoff before his arrest in
December 2008.  The Mets owners said they invested with Madoff believing
his firm was regulated, they said. The fact that the SEC never
imposed sanctions on the con man can help them establish they
trusted their  money manager  and weren’t turning “a blind eye”
to the available information about his operations, they said.  “The absence of any regulatory action against Madoff
Securities is relevant to defendants’ good faith,” Wilpon and
Katz said.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment on the Mets
owners’ filing.  High School Ball  Koufax, who was elected to Baseball’s Hall of Fame in 1972,
played high school baseball with  Fred Wilpon  in Brooklyn,
according to a court filing. He held a Madoff account maintained
by the Mets’ owners.  Morgenthau will testify that in 2006 Wilpon donated
$500,000 to the Police Athletic League, of which Morgenthau was
chairman. Wilpon suggested to Morgenthau that the money be
invested with Madoff’s firm, according to the filing.  Wilpon wouldn’t have encouraged Koufax, one of his oldest
friends, and Morgenthau, who was then Manhattan District
Attorney, to invest in Madoff’s firm if he had thought it was a
fraud, the Mets owners argued.  Picard asked Rakoff to bar the testimony of Koufax and
Morgenthau, claiming their testimony is intended to improperly
influence the jury in favor of the defendants.  Koufax, 76, was born in  Brooklyn  and played his entire
career for the Dodgers in Brooklyn and  Los Angeles , retiring in
1966 at the age of 30 with three Cy Young Awards, one Most
Valuable Player Award, four no-hitters, one perfect game and the
nickname “The Left Arm of God,” according to Baseb all-
Reference.com . He was youngest man ever elected to the Hall of
Fame, at the age of 36 in 1972.  Morgenthau  Morgenthau, 92, began his prosecutorial career when
President  John F. Kennedy  appointed him U.S. Attorney in 1961.
As district attorney he prosecuted cases ranging from street
crime to  securities fraud , including one against former Tyco
International Ltd.’s former chief L. Dennis Kozlowski, convicted
in 2005 of looting the company. Morgenthau retired as D.A. in
2009 and is now in private practice.  The Police Athletic League was founded in 1914 by  New York 
Police Commissioner Arthur Woods as a not-for-profit to help New
York City children. The league offers after school and summer
activities, including day camps and Head Start programs. On its
website, it describes itself as the city’s “largest independent
youth development non-for-profit organization.”  Fees  Separately, Picard sought to bar evidence about his fees
from the trial. He and his  law firm ,  Baker & Hostetler LLP (1155L) , have
charged about $273 million in fees for liquidating the Madoff
firm since it collapsed in December 2008.  He and the Mets owners also sparred in court filings about
how each should portray the issues to the jury, using particular
phrases. According to Picard, the $303 million is really “other
people money.” Picard said they are trying to portray him as
stealing from the rich to give to the poor. The Mets owners say
the money is rightfully theirs.  Picard is also fighting to present evidence that a Merrill
Lynch executive articulated his doubts about Madoff to Sterling
Stamos, a hedge fund run by Peter Stamos, chairman of  Major
League Baseball ’s investment advisory board, with the Mets
owners as partners.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history, and is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in  North
Carolina .  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net 
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  