-- Mets Owners Should Be Barred From Questioning Fees, Madoff Trustee Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/mets-owners-should-be-barred-from-questioning-fees-madoff-trustee-says.html
Irving Picard , the trustee
liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s former firm, asked a judge to
prohibit evidence about his fees at a trial over claims against
the owners of the  New York  Mets baseball team.  Lawyers for the defendants in the Mets trial have sought to
depose Picard and question him about his retention of the  Baker
& Hostetler LLP (1155L)  law firm and whether “the trustee has any
pecuniary incentive tied specifically to this litigation,”
according to e-mails between Picard and Mets lawyers filed
yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan .  “To the extent that he does, that fact is relevant,” said
Dana Seshens, an attorney for Mets owners  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz and a group of related defendants, in an Nov. 29 e-mail.
Picard is a fiduciary for all Madoff customers, including the
defendants, Seshens said.  Picard’s attorneys objected to the deposition, saying
references to pecuniary motivation sounded like “harassment.”
Picard and the  law firm  have charged about $273 million in fees
for liquidating the Madoff firm since it collapsed in December
2008.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff ruled this month that the
Mets owners and related defendants must give up as much as
$83 million in fictitious profits from Madoff’s Ponzi scheme and
face a trial over whether they acted in bad faith, a decision
that could cost them $303 million more, he said.  $386 million  The Mets owners had opposed a jury trial and tried
unsuccessfully to get Madoff trustee Irving Picard’s remaining
lawsuit dismissed after Rakoff cut it to $386 million from
$1 billion. Picard’s lawyers had said they were confident a jury
would find the Mets owners knowingly ignored the fraud because
it benefited their businesses, which included real estate as
well as the team.  Seshens didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages
after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment on the
trustee’s filing.  Picard must prove to a jury that the Mets owners and other
defendants were willfully blind to Madoff’s scheme to recover
the $303 million, representing principal they took from their
Madoff accounts in the two years before the con man’s 2008
arrest, Rakoff said. The  Ponzi scheme  cost investors an
estimated $20 billion in principal, according to Picard.  The trial is set to begin March 19.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history, and is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in  North
Carolina .  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  