-- Letting Banks Shed Capital Won’t Build Confidence: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-13T22:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/letting-banks-shed-capital-won-t-build-confidence-view.html
The  Federal Reserve  has a number of
powerful tools it can use to restore confidence in the U.S.
banking system. Allowing banks to weaken their financial
positions shouldn’t be one of them.  On Tuesday, the Fed released the results of the toughest
bank stress tests it has yet performed. Designed to ensure that
the largest U.S. banks can survive a severe recession and
renewed housing crisis, the tests included a 52 percent drop in
the stock market, a 21 percent decline in  house prices  and a 5
percent contraction in economic activity -- similar to what
actually happened from 2007 to 2009.  The tests had the desired effect: Bank shares rose sharply
Tuesday afternoon as news emerged that major institutions such
as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. had passed.
The results, which the central bank laudably published in
detail, show that 15 of the 19 largest U.S. banks would survive
the worst-case scenario without falling below minimum capital
levels set by regulators.  Good as the stress tests were, they don’t mean the U.S.
banking system is out of the woods. Three major banks -- Ally
Financial Inc., Citigroup Inc. and SunTrust Banks Inc. -- didn’t
pass, and investors still don’t have much faith in the reported
capital levels of many of the rest. If the Fed wants the
positive results of the stress tests to last, it should err on
the side of caution in approving banks’ plans to pay dividends
and buy back shares -- moves that benefit shareholders but also
deplete capital.  Big Payouts  Early reports suggest that payouts at some banks could
exceed already high expectations. JPMorgan, for example,
announced a dividend and buyback plan that could cost more than
$16 billion this year, compared with the $13 billion analysts
had expected. In all, analysts had estimated that the five
largest U.S. banks would pay out more than $30 billion this
year, up from about $26 billion last year, according to
Bloomberg News.  Supporters of such payouts argue that they are good for
confidence because they promote the perception that the banking
system is on the mend. Financial institutions, they say, have
ample capital by the measures regulators follow most closely.
The five largest U.S. banks have an average Tier 1 capital ratio
of 12.5 percent, more than enough to meet the more stringent
international standards that take effect in 2019.  Investors, though, have good reason to doubt those numbers.
In the simplest terms, a bank’s capital equals its assets minus
its liabilities. In their financial statements, the banks
themselves admit that the values they place on assets, such as
mortgages and consumer loans, don’t reflect what those assets
would fetch in the market. Bank of America, for example,
reported that as of Dec. 31, the fair value of its loans was
about $27 billion less than the value the bank gave them on its
balance sheet. That’s more than 12 percent of common equity, a
basic measure of capital.  Investors’ doubts are reflected in the disparity between
the market value of some banks’ shares and their book value --
that is, the amount of common equity the banks say they have.
Even after the stress-test rally, Citigroup’s shares were
trading at a discount of about 40 percent to book value, and
Bank of America’s at 58 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. JPMorgan’s shares traded at a 7 percent discount. In
all, the market value of the country’s five largest banks falls
about $160 billion short of their combined common equity.  Given the size of the banks’ credibility gap, allowing them
to pay out more than $30 billion in cash is unduly generous. It
might temporarily cheer shareholders and enrich some executives,
but it’s hard to imagine how it will bolster confidence or make
the banking system healthier.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 