-- EU Challenges China’s Rare-Earth Export Restrictions at WTO
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-03-13T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/eu-challenges-china-s-rare-earth-export-restrictions-at-wto.html
The European Union joined the U.S.
and  Japan  in challenging  China ’s export restrictions on raw
materials including 17 rare earths used in high-tech products,
tungsten and molybdenum.  “China’s restrictions on rare earths and other products
violate international trade rules and must be removed,” EU
Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said today in an e-mailed
statement. “These measures hurt our producers and consumers in
the EU and across the world, including manufacturers of
pioneering hi-tech and ‘green’ business applications.”  De Gucht said that despite the World Trade Organization’s
“clear ruling” in a previous dispute over raw materials,
“China has made no attempt to remove the other export
restrictions. This leaves us no choice but to challenge China’s
export regime again to ensure fair access for our businesses to
these materials.”  The U.S. will file a complaint at the WTO today, deepening
a trade dispute between the world’s two largest economies.
President  Barack Obama  will personally announce the action, an
administration official said yesterday in  Washington , speaking
on condition of anonymity ahead of the White House statement.  The move adds to pressure the U.S. is piling on China in an
election year, with Obama calling for efforts to help balance
the trade deficit it has with the Asian nation and allow the
Chinese currency to appreciate. China produces at least 90
percent of the world’s rare earths, used in  Boeing Co. (BA) 
helicopter blades and Toyota Motor Corp. hybrid cars, and has
curbed output and exports since 2009 to conserve mining
resources and protect the environment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Brussels at  jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net  