-- EU Governments Suspend Some of Hungary’s Cohesion Fund Grants as of 2013
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-03-13T17:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/eu-governments-suspend-some-of-hungary-s-cohesion-fund-grants-as-of-2013.html
European Union governments
partially froze  Hungary ’s infrastructure-development aid as of
2013, giving the country until June 22 to take “effective”
action to cut its budget  deficit  and have the sanction lifted.  EU finance ministers suspended 495 million euros ($649
million) in development funds at a meeting in Brussels today.
They will revisit the issue “with a view to lifting the
suspension if the conditions are met,” the EU said. Hungary
must take the “necessary corrective action” to rein in the
deficit to unfreeze the grants, it said.  The EU is pushing Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  to narrow
Hungary’s shortfall after raising last week its estimates for
the country’s deficits through 2013. The gap may widen to 3.6
percent of gross domestic product next year from 3 percent in
2012, the commission forecasts. EU rules specify that
governments keep the annual deficit below 3 percent.  “This provides a strong incentive for Hungary to conduct a
sound and sustainable fiscal policy,” EU Economic and Monetary
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters today. “It’s essential”
that government steps are “of a permanent nature and not only
one-off measures,” Rehn said, adding that the European
Commission took the “worsened macroeconomic outlook” into
account when defining Hungary’s fiscal targets.  The forint strengthened 0.8 percent to 291.41 per euro as
of 5 p.m. in Budapest. The yield on the country’s benchmark
five-year bond fell 5 basis points to 8.53 percent. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The EU invoked a clause that enables them to suspend
commitments for the first time since the cohesion fund was set
up in 1994, it said in a statement.  ‘Sustainable and Credible’  The June 22 deadline gives Hungary less time than the
commission’s initial recommendation on March 6 to allow six
months to “take steps to correct its excessive deficit in a
sustainable and credible manner.” The commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, will assess “without delay” whether Hungary
has taken corrective action, according to the EU.  Orban, who took office in 2010, levied extraordinary
industry taxes and effectively nationalized private pension
savings to rein in the deficit and boost revenue after cutting
the personal income tax. The country had a budget surplus of as
much as 3.5 percent of GDP last year as a result of the one-time
revenue, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on Jan. 23.  The government is “100 percent” confident of meeting the
June 22 deadline, Matolcsy said in Brussels today, calling the
decision a “reasonable solution.”  ‘Convince the Commission’  “I’m not sure Hungary can convince the European Commission
that it has taken enough steps by June,” Peter Attard Montalto,
economist at Nomura Plc, said in an e-mail today. “I think
Hungary will underestimate what the European Commission is after
and just use headline, one-off measures.”  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said she was
“confident” that Hungary will make an effort to set the
necessary steps to avoid the suspension of aid.  “The Hungarian minister has assured us that the majority
of necessary decisions already is in parliament and will be
passed by mid-May,” Fekter told reporters in Brussels today,
following a meeting of EU finance ministers.  Orban’s government, which is seeking to revive bailout
talks with the EU and the  International Monetary Fund , remains
embroiled in a separate legal dispute with the 27-nation bloc
that has blocked the start of aid negotiations.  The EU last week took a formal step toward seeking a court
order to make Hungary redraft laws on the judiciary and the
data-protection agency and asked for more information on planned
changes to a new central-bank law.  “We are ready for starting the negotiations with the IMF
and the European Commission,” Matolcsy said.  Hungary taking further one-off or “distortionary” budget
measures may cause “difficulties” in financial-aid talks as
such action may conflict with the international lenders’
conditions, Montalto said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  