-- Obama Says China Rare-Earths Case Is Warning for WTO Violators
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-03-13T17:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/eu-joins-u-s-japan-in-challenging-china-s-rare-earth-export-restrictions.html
President  Barack Obama  said his
decision to challenge China’s export limits on rare-earth
minerals at the  World Trade Organization  is part of his quest to
make the U.S. more competitive in the global economy.  “Being able to manufacture advanced batteries and hybrid
cars in America is too important for us to stand by and do
nothing,” Obama said in the White House  Rose Garden  this
morning. “Our competitors should be on notice: You will not get
away with skirting the rules.”  The U.S., EU and Japan requested consultations with China,
a step that will lead the governments to ask WTO judges to rule
should negotiations fail to resolve the issue. China produces at
least 90 percent of the world’s rare earths, 17 chemically
similar metallic elements used in  Boeing Co. (BA)  helicopter blades,
 Nokia Oyj (NOKIA)  cell phones, Toyota Motor Corp. hybrid cars and wind
turbines. China says it curbed output and exports to conserve
resources and protect the environment.  In a similar case, the WTO found in July that Chinese
limits on raw-materials exports broke global rules and gave
domestic companies an unfair advantage. WTO appellate judges in
January upheld the ruling, which supported a complaint by the
U.S., the EU and  Mexico . U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk 
called that report a “tremendous victory.”  Economic Pressure  Facing pressure to lower the nation’s 8.3 percent
unemployment rate heading into November’s election, Obama is
leaning harder on China. He signed an executive order two weeks
ago creating a panel to probe unfair trade practices by nations
including  China , and the U.S. has urged the Asian nation to
allow its undervalued currency to appreciate.  The U.S.-China trade deficit widened to $295 billion last
year and the imbalance is a main source of friction between the
two countries.  China’s policy goal is to protect resources and the
environment, not to distort markets, the Ministry of Commerce
said in statement on website.  Under WTO rules, the four governments must hold talks for
at least two months in a bid to resolve the dispute. If the
talks fail, the complaining governments can ask a WTO panel to
intervene.  Rare earths became a political and legislative issue in
July 2010 when China moved to limit domestic output and slash
export quotas by 40 percent, souring ties with major users
including the U.S. and  Japan , where buyers cut usage after
prices soared in the first half of 2011. China said on Dec. 28
it was leaving the 2012 overseas sales caps virtually unchanged.  International Trade Rules  “China’s restrictions on rare earths and other products
violate international trade rules and must be removed,” EU
Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said today in an e-mailed
statement. “These measures hurt our producers and consumers in
the EU and across the world, including manufacturers of
pioneering hi-tech and ‘green’ business applications.”  The U.S. Energy Department said in January that limited
supplies of five rare-earth minerals -- dysprosium, terbium,
europium, neodymium and yttrium -- pose a threat to increasing
use of clean-energy technologies such as  wind turbines  and solar
panels. While prices of rare earths fell in the second half of
2011, they remain volatile, leading some companies to search for
ways to consider reducing reliance on the minerals, the Energy
Department said.  Supply-Chain Disruption  Kirk said today that China’s policies on rare earths result
in “massive distortions and harmful disruptions in supply
chains for these materials throughout the global marketplace.”
Today’s complaint also involves export restraints on tungsten
and molybdenum, he said in a statement.  The U.S. decision to bring the case is “rash,” and the
complaint is based on “unfair accusations,” China’s official
Xinhua News Agency wrote today in an unsigned commentary.  China’s rare-earth policies are needed to protect the
nation’s environment, which is devastated by mining, the
commentary said.  Prior to today, the U.S. has filed 12 WTO complaints against
China while the EU has lodged five. China has  complained  twice
against the 27-nation bloc and five times against the U.S.  Demand for rare earths may rebound following a 25 percent
slump in prices this year, Morgan Stanley said on March 5. That
would benefit producers of the metals such as  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) ,
which owns the largest rare-earth deposit outside of China,
located near Mountain Pass,  California .  Molycorp Reaction  The WTO case may boost rare-earth producers outside China,
Luisa Moreno, an analyst at Jacob Securities Inc. in Toronto,
said today in a telephone interview.  “We all thought that China was being unfair,” Moreno
said. “It’s different when the president of the  United States 
comes out and says, ‘I need to talk to China about these
particular elements.’ It should be fairly important.”  Export restrictions “are issues for the respective
governments to work through,”  Jim Sims , a spokesman for
Molycorp, said today in a telephone interview. “For Molycorp,
we have to prepare for and compete in the market as it exists
today.”  Not all groups were pleased with the WTO complaint. Alan Tonelson, a research fellow at the U.S. Business and Industry
Council, a trade group for U.S.-based manufacturers, said the
WTO dispute-settlement process is too slow, and Obama should be
concentrating on China’s undervalued yuan and export subsidies.  Stealing Jobs  “Unless President Obama starts fighting back effectively
against these transgressions, China’s market-rigging will keep
stealing hundreds of thousands of valuable jobs and untold
billions of dollars’ worth of growth that the struggling  U.S.
economy  needs right now,” Tonelson said in an e-mail.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, said Obama’s
ability to bring WTO complaints to protect against unfair
foreign trade practices undermines the rationale for the new
trade enforcement unit that Obama said is necessary to protect
the U.S. economy and workers.  “It’s not clear whether a new office would lead to more
cases or just create redundancy,” Grassley said in an e-mailed
statement.  The raw materials covered by the complaint filed today are
various forms of rare-earth elements, molybdenum and tungsten.
The 17 chemical elements include lanthanum, cerium,
praseodymium, neodymium, promethium, samarium, europium,
gadolinium, terbium, dysprosium, holmium, erbium, thulium,
ytterbium and lutetium as well as scandium and  yttrium .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  