-- EU Ministers Set to Suspend Hungary Development Funds on Deficit Overrun
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-03-13T08:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/eu-ministers-set-to-suspend-hungary-development-funds-on-deficit-overrun.html
Hungary faces a freeze by European
Union finance ministers on 495 million euros ($651 million) in
EU development aid after the government failed to narrow its
 budget deficit  in a “sustainable” manner.  The EU finance chiefs are set to vote at a meeting today in
Brussels on a European Commission proposal to suspend the
infrastructure aid starting in 2013. The move would affect 29
percent of Hungary’s share of so-called EU cohesion funds,
according to the commission, the EU executive.  The commission last week raised its estimate for Hungary’s
deficits for 2012 and 2013 and urged Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government to implement further budget cuts. The deficit
may widen to 3.6 percent of gross domestic product next year
from 3 percent this year, the commission forecasts. EU rules
specify that governments keep the annual deficit below 3 percent
of GDP.  “The preparatory forums unambiguously supported the
commission’s recommendation” to suspend the infrastructure
subsidies, Tamas Szucs, the EU executive’s representative in
Hungary, told reporters yesterday in Budapest. “Therefore it
can be assumed that the ministers will also back it.”  Hungary has six months to “take steps to correct its
excessive  deficit  in a sustainable and credible manner,” the
commission said on March 6. Today’s meeting in Brussels will in
“all certainty” approve the aid freeze,  Peter Szijjarto ,
Orban’s spokesman, said on March 5, adding that Hungary would
take the necessary measures to avoid losing the grants.  “As things stand, it seems that indeed these funds will be
lifted and the onus will then fall on Hungary to change the
commission’s mind before the end of year,” Societe Generale SA
said in an e-mailed report today.  Bailout Talks  Orban’s government, which is seeking to revive bailout
talks with the EU and the  International Monetary Fund , remains
embroiled in a separate legal dispute with the 27-nation bloc
that has blocked the start of aid negotiations. The EU last week
took a formal step toward seeking a court order to make  Hungary 
redraft laws on the judiciary and the data-protection agency and
asked for more information on planned changes to a new central-
bank law.  The forint strengthened 0.2 percent to 293.13 per euro by
8:56 a.m. in Budapest, pushing this year’s gain to 7.4 percent,
the third-best performance in the world after the Polish zloty
and the Colombian peso.  Orban pledged on March 2 to ensure that the threatened
suspension of Hungary’s development subsidies “won’t make a
difference.”  “Hungary won’t lose one penny,” the premier said, adding
that the EU’s proposal was based “on technical issues” that
will be resolved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  