-- EU Will Back Down on Airline Carbon on ICAO Plan: SocGen
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-03-13T17:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/eu-will-back-down-on-airline-carbon-after-icao-plan-socgen-says.html
The European Union will probably
back down on including aviation in its carbon market once the
 United Nations ’  International Civil Aviation Organization 
proposes a global program, said  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   “The EU is close to the point of backing down,”  Emmanuel Fages , an analyst with the bank in Paris, said today by phone.
“It’s becoming one of the big risks in this market” and may
already be driving carbon prices lower, he said.  Airbus SAS and  Europe ’s biggest airlines yesterday called
on the bloc to find a compromise on aviation carbon curbs,
warning that the limits on foreign carriers may lead to
increased retaliation. The regulator known as ICAO said in
November it was canvassing the world’s 50 biggest nations on a
global emissions program to be proposed this year.  Nations outside Europe “are irritated by the principle
because they see it as an infringement of their sovereignty,”
Fages said. “It’s not a big deal financially and they know
it.” Removing airlines from the EU program might curb demand in
the EU market by about 700 million metric tons through 2020 and
cut prices by about 2 euros ($2.62) a ton from current levels,
he said.  This year’s cap for power stations, factories and airlines
in the market is about 2.4 billion tons, according to estimates
from Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London . EU allowances for
December rose 1 cent to 7.86 euros a ton today on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London at 5:34 p.m., taking their
loss this month to 8.2 percent.  ‘Won’t Abandon’  The EU can replace its carbon curbs on aviation with a
global measure to cut pollution from the industry as long as the
broader program is as ambitious as the EU plan, the bloc’s
climate chief said Feb. 17.  The 27-nation EU won’t abandon the expansion of its
emissions trading system into international aviation in the face
of opposition from nations outside the region, Climate
Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said at the time. The first
expansion of the EU emissions cap-and-trade program abroad has
drawn fire from countries including the U.S., Russia and  Japan ,
which said the measure was inconsistent with international law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  