-- Euro Fate Depends Whether Wyplosz or Kirkegaard Is Right
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-03-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/euro-fate-depends-whether-wyplosz-or-kirkegaard-is-right.html
Charles Wyplosz  is betting Greece
isn’t “unique.”  After the Greek government successfully inflicted losses on
its private creditors, the director of the International Center
for Money and Banking Studies in Geneva predicts it’s the first
domino to fall in a series that might culminate with Italy, the
euro-area’s third-largest economy, reneging on its debts.  “The day Greece’s private sector involvement happened,
people were saying ‘one down and next is Portugal,’” Wyplosz,
who as long ago as May 2010 was saying Greece needed to
restructure its debt, said in a telephone interview. “When
Portugal is done, markets will look elsewhere. We’ve seen the
contagion process over and over again.”  That stance, at odds with a vow by European leaders that
such restructurings will stop at Greece, underscores the mixed
feelings investors are signaling on the next phase of the debt
crisis. While yields on 10-year bonds for  Italy  and Spain have
dropped below 5 percent, Portugal faces a 13 percent interest
rate and the cost of credit-default swaps on Italian debt imply
a 27 percent chance of default within five years.  “In neither Ireland nor Portugal do I think that PSI will
be implemented,” said  Jacob Kirkegaard , research fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
“Spain and Italy will muddle through.”  Fresh Doubts  Who is right will determine whether European leaders are
right to declare a turning point in the sovereign debt turmoil
now in its third year, or if they will be forced to take
additional crisis-fighting steps after already putting up 386
billion euros ($506 billion) of aid. A wave of defaults would
also raise fresh doubts over the longevity of the euro area 13
years after it came into being.  “It is doubtful whether the euro-zone monetary system can
withstand an Italian default,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing
director of currency research at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New
York .  Greece wrapped up eight months of talks on March 9 by
pushing through the biggest sovereign restructuring in history,
cajoling investors to forgive more than 100 billion euros of
debt. Bondholders with 95.7 percent of Greece’s privately held
bonds will participate after so-called collective action clauses
were triggered, opening the way for the country to tap a second
international bailout.  While the debt swap was the first such operation since the
single currency began in 1999,  Europe ’s finance chiefs say it’s
a one-off. Greece is a “completely unique” case, German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday.  Debt to GDP  Wyplosz, 64, is unconvinced, arguing other cash-strapped
nations will have to follow as their economies prove unable to
stomach the austerity required to deliver sustainable debts.
Portugal’s debt will equal 111 percent of gross domestic product
in 2012, compared with Ireland’s 117.5 percent and Italy’s 120.5
percent, according to European Commission estimates in November.  “We don’t have a solution for Greece, so there will be a
harder default to come,” said Wyplosz, who has advised the
 International Monetary Fund  and French government. “Then we’ll
look to the next country in trouble.”  The rot may extend to Italy, whose economy hasn’t grown
more than 3 percent in a year since 2000 and where debt has
topped 100 percent of GDP since 1991, he said.  “They’ve never been able to bring their debt down and even
if they do now, they won’t be able to grow,” Wyplosz said.  Portugal Travails  Portugal, which followed Greece and Ireland in requiring a
bailout of 78 billion euros last May, is next in the firing line
as speculators question whether it can resume bond sales in 2013.
With unemployment at 14 percent and the economy shrinking for a
fifth quarter, its benchmark yield reached a euro-era high of
18.29 percent on Jan. 31. It was still paying more than 13
percent yesterday.  Ireland, the recipient of 67.5 billion euros of aid, has
said it won’t force losses on debt holders and is seeking a
return to the credit markets next year as its economy already
returns to growth.  “It’s very clear that Ireland won’t seek any writedown,”
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said in a Feb. 8 interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with  Margaret Brennan .”  A Greek default nevertheless means a more than 60 percent
chance of Portugal following, according to an analysis of credit
default swaps by Fathom Financial Consulting. The risk then
grows that Ireland,  Spain  and Italy declare bankruptcy, said
Erik Britton, a London-based director of Fathom.  Italian Warning  The reason is budget retrenchment is harder to impose in a
fixed exchange-rate bloc where nations are unable to compensate
with lower  interest rates  or a cheaper currency, said Britton.
In the case of Italy, the budget reductions required to pare the
debt would only work if the nation’s economy and fiscal position
were healthier, he said.  Italy’s jobless rate has risen to the highest in more than
a decade at 9.2 percent in January and business confidence has
dropped to a two-year low as Prime Minister  Mario Monti  seeks to
balance the budget in 2013 via 81 billion euros of austerity
measures imposed since last year. Monti has urged German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to help him deliver more signs of
progress to keep Italian voters on his side.  “Italy looks an awfully like it is on an unsustainable
path,” said Britton, a former Bank of England economist.
“Austerity doesn’t provide a way out in a currency union and
default is the only way.”  Spanish Steps  Spain is finding it hard to couple cuts with growth. Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said this month that its 2012 deficit
will be higher than agreed at budget talks with the European
Union. A deepening economic slump is hampering efforts to pare
the euro-area’s fourth-largest budget gap and Rajoy now aims for
a deficit of 5.8 percent of GDP, compared with the previously
agreed 4.4 percent.  Kirkegaard, 38, is more sanguine, predicting Europe’s
authorities will hand Portugal more money later this year to
save them from re-entering markets in 2013 and noting Italy is
already winning back the faith of investors. The  European
Central Bank ’s infusion of three-year bank loans has helped
stabilize the crisis, while governments will boost the capacity
of their bailout funds to limit infection from  Greece , he said.  “The austerity will still hurt, but at this point I can’t
see another country” defaulting on its privately held debt,
said Kirkegaard, who has worked for the Danish government and
the United Nations.  Portuguese Measures  The IMF and European officials last month credited
Portugal with delivering on its goal to trim its  budget deficit 
to 4.5 percent of GDP this year, down from 9.8 percent in 2010.
Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho’s majority government also
means more political certainty than Greece.  Schaeuble was caught on camera last month telling his
Portuguese counterpart that Germany, Europe’s biggest economy,
is ready to adjust terms of Portugal’s rescue if needed.  Meantime, Italy’s budget deficit narrowed more than
economists forecast last year to 3.9 percent of GDP and it is
running a primary budget surplus which means it’s only borrowing
to pay interest costs. Monti is also switching from austerity to
rallying growth by targeting red-tape and making it easier to do
business.  “Italy has shown if you have a sensibly managed fiscal
situation that’s not in itself going to lead to default,” said
Kirkegaard.  The risk is European leaders go back on their word and
force a Greek-style restructuring elsewhere, then contagion
spreads, Barclays Capital economists, including Antonio Garcia Pascual, wrote in a March 7 report to clients.  Italian Lessons  “Reneging on that commitment and launching a PSI in
Portugal could raise questions first about Ireland, but
potentially also about Spain and Italy,” they said. “Yet, PSI
cannot be ruled out at a later stage. As time goes by, reform
fatigue may become a problem and support for more radical
political parties may emerge.”  At Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages the
world’s largest bond fund, Co-Chief Investment Officer Bill Gross sees division among bondholders as to whether Wyplosz or
Kirkegaard are correct.  “I’m not forecasting a second default, but the markets
certainly are,” Gross said in a March 9 “Bloomberg
Surveillance” radio interview with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.
“The rules have been changed here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 