-- European Stocks Advance as U.S. Retail Sales Increase
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-03-13T16:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/european-stock-index-futures-advance-before-u-s-data-fed-policy-decision.html
European (SXXP)  stocks advanced, with the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbing to the highest since July 26, as
reports showed German investor confidence in March increased
more than forecast and American retail sales rose in February.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  led
lenders higher. Eramet SA, the operator of the world’s biggest
ferro-nickel plant, gained with metal prices.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) 
fell after full-year profit missed analysts’ estimates.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  added 1.8 percent to 269.56 at the close,
after euro-area finance ministers signed off on a second bailout
for Greece. The benchmark index has rallied 10 percent so far
this year.  “The sky is brightening,” said Jerome Forneris, who helps
manage $11 billion at Banque Martin Maurel in Marseille. “There
have been some very good economic indicators in northern Europe.
We hope that Germany will lead other countries higher. The  U.S.
economy  is improving and that is helping the market. The stress
from the sovereign-debt crisis that weighed on stocks is
disappearing. The appetite for stocks has returned.”  In  Germany , the ZEW Center for  European (SXXP)  Economic Research
in Mannheim said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations,
which seeks to predict economic developments six months in
advance, rose to 22.3 from 5.4 in February. That’s the fourth
straight increase. Economists forecast a gain to 10, according
to the median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  American Retail Sales  Retail sales  in the U.S. rose in February by the most in
five months, reflecting broad-based gains that indicate the
world’s largest economy is picking up.  The 1.1 percent advance matched the median forecast of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a 0.6 percent
increase in January that was larger than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . Demand
improved in 11 of 13 industry categories, including auto dealers
and clothing stores.  The  Federal Reserve  will announce its rate decision at 2:15
p.m. in Washington. Policy makers will probably refrain from
further action to boost economic growth as they assess recent
data, estimates show. In a testimony before Congress on Feb. 29,
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said maintaining monetary stimulus
is warranted even as the unemployment rate falls.  The Wall Street Journal last week reported the Fed is
considering a strategy that would allow it to undertake another
round of bond buying, while lowering the risk of inflation.  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 climbed 1.7 percent and
Germany’s DAX added 1.4 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 1.1
percent.  Greek Bailout  Euro-area finance ministers cleared a second rescue of
 Greece , paving the way for the first payment from the 130
billion-euro package ($170 billion) to be made this month.
Officials will give a formal approval on March 14, a day before
the International Monetary Fund board votes on its contribution.  The agreement caps months of grueling negotiations between
Greece, the IMF and euro-area authorities. To win the latest aid
package, Greece had to agree to deep budget cuts and complete
the world’s largest-ever sovereign debt restructuring.  At the Brussels meeting yesterday, euro-area finance
ministers asked  Spain (EHBBESY)  to prune an additional 0.5 percent of
gross domestic product out of the 2012 budget. The call came ten
days after new Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  unilaterally raised
the Spanish deficit target for this year.  A gauge of European bank shares rose 3.3 percent for the
 best performance  among the 19 industry group on the Stoxx 600.  Raiffeisen, UniCredit  Raiffeisen, eastern  Europe ’s third-biggest lender, advanced
1.4 percent to 25.20 euros. Western-European lenders such as
UniCredit and Erste Group Bank AG are maintaining support for
units in the region’s east even as they steer them toward local
funding because of new capital rules, Fitch Ratings said.  UniCredit advanced 3.9 percent to 4.05 euros. Italy’s
largest lender was raised to  outperform  from neutral at Exane
BNP Paribas, which said it is “less concerned” about the risk
of any more worsening of the bank’s Italian loan book.  Banca Popolare dell’Emilia Romagna Scrl (BPE)  added 4.5 percent
to 6.53 euros.  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl (PMI)  rose 2.4 percent
to 50.8 euro cents.  3i Group Plc (III) , the U.K.’s largest publicly traded buyout
firm, soared 6.9 percent to 210 pence after a report in the
Guardian cited speculation of a management buyout.  Tod’s, Marine Harvest  Tod’s SpA (TOD) , the Italian owner of the Hogan brand, jumped 7.2
percent to 84.45 euros. The company reported a 20 percent
increase in 2011 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization to 232.4 million euros, compared with the
average analyst estimate for 230.7 million euros. The company
raised its dividend 25 percent to 2.5 euros per share.  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) , the world’s biggest salmon farmer,
climbed 3 percent to 3.12 kroner. Nordea Bank AB upgraded the
stock to hold from sell.  Eramet jumped 6 percent to 113.70 euros. Vedanta Resources
Plc climbed 4.5 percent to 1,430 pence. Copper, lead, nickel and
tin were among metals prices rising in  London .  A British house-price index rose to a 19-month high in
February as first-time buyers moved to beat the expiration of a
property-tax exemption, according to the  Royal Institution  of
Chartered Surveyors.  Barratt, Taylor Wimpey  Barratt Developments Plc advanced 5.3 percent to 149.3
pence.  Taylor Wimpey Plc  rallied 4.3 percent to 52.1 pence.
Bovis Homes Group Plc added 2.7 percent to 516 pence.  Inchcape Plc (INCH) , a U.K. auto dealer and distributor operating
in 26 countries, surged 11 percent to 418.2 pence, the biggest
increase since July 2009, after reporting full-year pretax
profit that beat estimates.  Antofagasta Plc dropped 2.3 percent to 1,241 pence. The
copper company, whose chief executive officer resigned last
week, said profit increased 18 percent last year as output and
prices climbed.  Net income rose to $1.24 billion from $1.05 billion a year
earlier, the company said. That missed the $1.26 billion average
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The dividend
fell to 44 cents a share, including a 24-cent special payment,
from $1.16 with a $1 special payment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 