-- Ex-GE Manager Was Insane as He Killed, Defense Lawyer Argues
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 2012-03-13T21:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/ex-ge-manager-not-guilty-of-murder-his-lawyer-tells-jury-1-.html
Hemy Neuman, a former  GE Energy 
executive in Atlanta, isn’t guilty of murder because he was
legally insane when he shot to death the husband of a co-worker,
a defense lawyer told jurors at the end of his trial.  “Hemy Neuman on Nov. 18, 2010, did not have the mental
capacity to distinguish right from wrong,” defense attorney Bob
Rubin said today in his closing arguments in Decatur, Georgia.
“In fact he thought he was doing the right thing.”  Prosecutors countered by arguing that Neuman, 49, was
legally sane when he shot and killed Russell “Rusty”
Sneiderman, 36, outside a day care center.  The defense doesn’t deny that Neuman intercepted and killed
Sneiderman in front of the center, Dunwoody Prep, where he had
dropped off his 2-year-old son.  Neuman’s lawyers maintain he was fixated on Sneiderman’s
wife, Andrea, 35, who worked with him at GE Energy, and that he
believed he was the father of her two children.  Andrea Sneiderman worked for Neuman in software systems
support at the company, where he was an engineer overseeing
5,000 people, according to evidence in court.  Neuman and Andrea Sneiderman had an emotional personal
relationship that included some type of sexual contact, Doug
Peters, another Neuman lawyer, told the jury.  Both sides said Neuman was obsessed with Andrea Sneiderman,
who wasn’t in the courtroom. Earlier she testified they didn’t
have an affair.  Not Accused  She isn’t charged with any crime, and nothing introduced at
the trial implicated her in Neuman’s plan to kill her husband.  “Hemy Neuman killed Rusty Sneiderman because he wanted his
wife, because he wanted his money, because he wanted his life,”
District Attorney Robert James of DeKalb County said. “In
Georgia, we call that cold-blooded murder.”  Andrea Sneiderman, who was at work when the shooting
occurred, played a role in events leading up to her husband’s
death, Peters said.  “The gun was in the hand of Hemy Neuman,” the lawyer
said. “The trigger, I would suggest, was pulled by Andrea
Sneiderman.”  She collected $2 million in  life insurance , Peters said.  Andrea Sneiderman and Neuman exchanged messages and talked
on the phone after the crime on the day of the shooting, James
told the jury. The messages’ content wasn’t disclosed.  Seth Kirschenbaum, Andrea Sneiderman’s attorney, declined
to accept a phone call seeking comment on the closing arguments.  Adriana Flores, a forensic psychologist, testified for the
defense last week that Neuman was sexually and romantically
obsessed with Andrea Sneiderman.  Heard Voices  When Neuman killed Sneiderman, he believed he was acting on
orders from an angel with a woman’s voice and a demon with a
man’s, Flores said.  A psychiatrist for the defense, Tracey Marks, said Neuman
was delusional, bipolar and unable to tell right from wrong when
he shot Sneiderman.  Neuman isn’t bipolar, depressed or legally insane, said two
witnesses for the prosecution, Pamela Crawford, a forensic
psychologist, and William Brickhouse, a psychiatrist who is
mental health director at the DeKalb County jail. Someone who is
psychotic can’t plan and perform a killing as Neuman did,
Crawford said.  Neuman faces life in prison without parole if convicted of
murder, or life without parole or parole after 30 years if
convicted of murder while mentally ill.  He will be held in a mental institution if found not guilty
by reason of temporary insanity. To reach that finding, the jury
must decide only by a preponderance of the evidence, not the
higher standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt necessary for
a conviction.  The case is State v. Neuman, 11CR1364-5,  Georgia  Superior
Court, DeKalb County (Decatur).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta
at   lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 