-- Ex-Lehman Executive Jack’s $35 Million Estate Faces Tax Auction
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-03-13T17:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/ex-lehman-executive-jack-s-35-million-estate-faces-tax-auction.html
The $35 million estate of Bradley H. Jack, the former  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  managing
director who was arrested twice for allegedly forging drug
prescriptions, may be sold at a municipal auction after he
failed to pay property taxes since July.  Jack owes $271,923 on his 20-acre (8-hectare), waterfront
compound in Fairfield,  Connecticut , according to town tax
collector Stanley Gorzelany. It’s the town’s biggest overdue tax
bill on a residence.  “He is the most delinquent taxpayer,” Gorzelany said in a
telephone interview.  Jack, 53, turned himself in and was charged March 9 with
second-degree forgery for a November incident at a CVS pharmacy
in which he faked the date on a doctor’s prescription for a
controlled substance, according to Capt. Sam Arciola of the
Westport Police Department. Jack was released on $5,000 bond and
has a March 21 court appearance.  In June, Jack was arrested after he allegedly tried to pass
forged prescriptions for 12 pills of the painkiller Oxycontin
and nine of Ritalin, a drug used to treat attention deficit
disorder, Fairfield police said.  Jack had received treatment for cancer, had had a valid
prescription in the past and had no prior criminal record, his
attorney, Robert G. Golger, said in court in August. Golger
didn’t immediately return a call today seeking comment on the
tax sale.  On the same day last week that Jack turned himself in,
Fairfield placed his property at 1143 Sasco Hill Road on a list
of delinquent homes to be included in a tax sale within the next
four months, Gorzelany said. The sale date hasn’t been set.  “We had been discussing a tax sale for weeks before that
happened,” Gorzelany said of Jack’s most recent arrest. “It
was just pure coincidence.”  Pool, Tennis Court  Jack’s property, which includes five buildings, a pool and
a tennis court, is the most expensive in Fairfield, according to
the tax collector’s office, which places its  market value  at
$34.6 million as of October 2010. His total annual tax bill is
$543,847.48.  He bought the estate in 2001 for $24.45 million, according
to the Fairfield Assessor’s office.  Individuals who owe more than $50,000 in back taxes,
regardless of how long they’ve been delinquent, will have their
property subject to a tax lien sale, Gorzelany said, citing
criteria set by the town of Fairfield.  If Jack doesn’t pay the back taxes before the auction date,
buyers will have the opportunity to acquire his property at a
starting bid of $426,240 and unspecified legal fees associated
with the sale, Gorzelany said. The starting bid includes
quarterly taxes that will be due in April.  Six-Month Window  After a tax sale, delinquent taxpayers have six months to
redeem their property by paying the back taxes to the town and
paying the winning bidder up to 9 percent of their final bid,
Gorzelany said.  Jack joined New York-based Lehman in 1984 and ran
 investment banking  from 1996 to 2002, when he became co-chief
operating officer with Joseph Gregory. In 2004, he was named to
the office of the chairman with the responsibility of overseeing
all of the firm’s investment banking relationships.  He decided to retire from New York-based Lehman to pursue
work in the nonprofit sector and spend time with his family,
Richard Fuld, Lehman’s chief executive officer at the time, said
in June 2005. The company went bankrupt in September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  