-- Ex-Thornburg Executives Sued by SEC for Hiding Cash Crisis
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-03-13T20:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/ex-thornburg-executives-sued-by-sec-for-hiding-liquidity-crisis.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued three former executives at defunct  Thornburg
Mortgage Inc. (THMRQ) , claiming they schemed to overstate the company’s
2007 income and hide its inability to pay lenders.  Larry Goldstone, Thornburg’s chief executive officer,
finance chief Clarence Simmons and Jane Starrett, who was in
charge of accounting, overstated income by more than $400
million and failed to tell investors and auditors that the firm
couldn’t make payments to its lenders, the SEC said in a lawsuit
filed today at U.S. District Court in  New Mexico . Goldstone and
Simmons, in an e-mailed statement, said they will “vigorously
defend themselves in court.”  The SEC said the executives’ plan to hide the delayed
payments fell through when they were unable to raise cash to
meet more margin calls after filing the firm’s annual report in
February 2008. When Thornburg began to default on the new round
of margin calls, it was forced to disclose the problems. The
company’s stock fell by more than 90 percent, the agency said.  “The truest test of corporate executives’ commitment to
full and accurate shareholder disclosure comes not during times
of soaring profits and double-digit growth, but when companies
are under financial stress and shareholders have the greatest
need for accurate information,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a statement. “These Thornburg executives
flunked that test.”  ‘Unfounded Claims’  The SEC’s lawsuit “is based on unfounded claims, e-mails
taken out of context and inaccurate interpretations of
management’s actions surrounding the company’s financial filings
at the height of the financial crisis,” Goldstone and Simmons
said in their statement.  “In its zealousness to find people to blame for the
financial crisis, the SEC has brought a case based on hindsight
that is not supported by the facts,” the executives said.  A phone call to Jerry Marks, an attorney for Starrett
wasn’t immediately returned.  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg, which specialized in
“jumbo” home loans, filed for bankruptcy May 1, 2009, amid
delinquencies and defaults stemming from the collapse of U.S.
mortgage markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  