-- Mexico Peso Rises as Industrial Output Fuels Economic Confidence
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-03-13T23:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/mexico-peso-fluctuates-as-traders-weigh-fed-u-s-retail-sales.html
Mexico ’s peso gained as the outlook
for its exports improved after industrial production rose more
than forecast in the Latin American country and retail sales in
the U.S. climbed by the most in five months.  The peso strengthened 0.8 percent to 12.5592 per  U.S.
dollar  at 3 p.m. in Mexico City, from 12.6602 yesterday,
extending its advance this year to 11 percent, the most among
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Mexican industrial production rose 4.2 percent in January
from a year earlier, higher than all 16 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey, the national statistics agency said today on
its website. Retail sales in the U.S., the destination of 80
percent of Mexican exports, increased in February by the most in
five months, Commerce Department figures showed today.  “Very strong industrial production numbers gave a boost to
the  Mexican peso ,”  Eduardo Suarez , a senior currency strategist
at Scotia Capital Inc. in Toronto, said by e-mail. “Activity
not only surpassed expectations on the headline number, but also
looked solid across the individual components.”  Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said last week in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York that exports
will probably climb from last year’s record high as demand from
the U.S. strengthens.  Mexican exports, which account for about 30 percent of the
country’s gross domestic product, soared 17 percent last year to
$350 billion. In 2011, Mexican output and exports of cars and
light trucks hit a record, according to the nation’s Automobile
Industry Association.  Mexican domestic sales of cars and light trucks rose 11.5
percent in February from the same month a year earlier, the auto
organization known as AMIA, said today.  Fed Reserve  The peso extended gains after the  Federal Reserve  said the
outlook for the world’s biggest economy has improved as the
labor market gathers strength, according to Eduardo Rodriguez,
currency trader at Casa de Bolsa Finamex SAB.  “This moved riskier currencies, those with higher yields
like the peso,” Rodriguez said by phone from Guadalajara,
Mexico. “There was fear that the economy wouldn’t be so strong,
that the data in any moment could come out lower.”  Mexico sold all 7 billion pesos of 28-day Cetes and 8
billion pesos of the 91-day securities it offered today, the
central bank said on its website. Mexico also sold all 8.5
billion pesos in 175-day bills it auctioned, the bank said.  The yield on Mexico’s peso-denominated debt due in 2024
rose three basis point, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.41
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell
0.30 centavo to 131.22 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  