-- Facebook Risks Annoying Users With Push Into Mobile Ads
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/facebook-risks-annoying-users-with-push-into-mobile-ads.html
Aline Drucker Fornaris, a lawyer in
Miami, is on the front lines of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s new effort to
put advertising on mobile devices.  When she logs on to the social-networking site from her
BlackBerry or iPad, she sees ads for Caribbean travel deals and
a local clothing boutique.  Facebook (FB)  used to only have ads in the
personal-computer version -- not the mobile apps -- and Drucker
Fornaris isn’t happy about the change.  The ads are “incredibly annoying,” she said.  As Facebook looks to mobile advertising for its next wave
of growth, that reaction is something it wants to avoid. The
social-networking service has about 425 million mobile users --
more than half its total membership -- and advertisers are eager
to target them. The challenge is to do it without overwhelming
people, who can be more sensitive to ads appearing on their
mobile devices.  “The interest is very high -- the advertisers are more
than willing,” said Marco Veremis, president of  Upstream
Systems , which provides mobile-advertising technology to  clients 
such as  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and Nestle SA. “The issue is, mobile is a
lot more personal and intimate. The danger of someone being
angry over invasion of privacy is at the top of the mind.”  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment on the strategy.  Big Payoff  In pushing into the market, Facebook is challenging  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , which is the leading seller of ad space on mobile devices.
The total mobile-ad industry may bring in almost $11 billion in
revenue by 2016 in the U.S. alone, up from $2.61 billion this
year, according to research firm EMarketer Inc. So far, Google
accounts for more than 50 percent of those ads, making $750
million in sales for the  Mountain View , California-based company
last year, EMarketer estimates.  Starting March 1,  Facebook (FB)  began allowing brands that
people “like” to send messages and ads to those users’ mobile
news feeds. If the user then makes a comment on one of the items
or “likes” it, the person’s friends get those promotions on
their own phones and tablets as well -- whether they asked for
them or not. The world’s largest social network, which  filed  for
an initial public offering last month, is counting on mobile ads
to bring in a new source of revenue and reassure investors that
it can maintain growth.  If Facebook and its advertisers can work through the
challenges, the payoff may be bigger than what the company gets
from its traditional PC ads, according to  Colby Atwood ,
president of consulting firm Borrell Associates Inc. Facebook
could generate more than $1.2 billion from mobile ads in the
program’s first year,  estimates  another firm, Mobile Squared.  ‘Creepy Factor’  While Google has drawn criticism over how it collects
personal data, it relies on more straightforward advertising
than Facebook -- running Internet-search ads or graphical
commercials within applications, for instance. Facebook’s
approach counts in part on its members promoting companies among
their friends. Facebook members who “like” brands may not
realize their preferences are used as the basis for advertising
sent to other people.  “It certainly does set off some creepy factor,” said
Parker Higgins, an  activist  at the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, a nonprofit group in  San Francisco . “It does feel
intrusive, and people may be upset.”  At the time of its  IPO filing  last month, Facebook made no
ad revenue from its mobile service. The new expansion could
bolster the company’s case with shareholders as it seeks a
valuation that people familiar with the matter peg at as much as
$100 billion.  Users’ Discomfort  While advertisers have shown interest in the mobile
approach, users are more resistant. About 67 percent of
Americans would find it unacceptable to receive unsolicited ads
on their phone, according to a  survey  of 2,105 U.S. consumers
that was commissioned by Upstream.  When it was unveiled earlier this year, the mobile-ad push
was presented as a way to provide promotions and offers that
users would want. The ads, called Sponsored Stories, began
appearing in the U.S. on the iPhone, Android devices and
Facebook’s mobile website at the beginning of this month.  “Our vision is that interaction on Facebook with a brand
is as exciting as it is with family,” Chris Cox, vice president
of product at Facebook, said last month at the company’s FMC
conference for marketers in  New York .  Many users aren’t bothered by the Sponsored Stories.  “It makes me feel like I am in touch with the brands that
I like,” said Christopher Brown IV, a 40-year-old Chicagoan who
handles internal communications for a financial company. He has
“liked” such brands as the Four Seasons, BMW and Gucci. “It
doesn’t come across as an advertisement,” Brown said.  No ‘Like’  Even so, the Facebook friends who view the ads aren’t the
ones who clicked “like” in the first place. That makes the
promotions irritating, Drucker Fornaris said, “though it hasn’t
gotten to the point where I’d want to quit  Facebook (FB) .”  Marketers are more interested in  Facebook ’s mobile platform
than those of other social-media companies, said Elio Narciso,
chief executive officer of mobile-ad agency  MobAVE . Among his
100 clients, those inquiring about mobile ads on Facebook
outnumber those interested in Twitter Inc. by 4-to-1, Narciso
said.  It’s appealing to clients because they already use Facebook
themselves and understand the service, said Sacha Xavier Reich,
a partner at  Neo@Ogilvy , which helps customers buy ads.  “Facebook is safe grounds for clients,” she said.  The hurdle will be getting users acclimated to the idea --
something that could take time.  “The biggest potential problem is: Will users be
overwhelmed with ads?” Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst at New
York-based  EMarketer . “People aren’t used to seeing ads on
their mobiles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  