-- Fairmont San Francisco Hotel to Be Sold for $200 Million
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-03-13T22:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/fairmont-san-francisco-hotel-to-be-sold-for-200-million.html
Maritz, Wolff & Co.  and Saudi
billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal agreed to sell the
Fairmont  San Francisco  hotel after failing to win permission to
convert part of the property into residences.  Woodridge Capital Partners LLC, a Los Angeles-based real
estate developer and investor, will pay about $200 million for
the hotel, said Heather Turner, vice president of acquisitions
at Maritz Wolff. Woodridge will work with  Howard Marks ’s Oaktree
Capital Management LP, also based in Los Angeles, on the
purchase, she said in an interview. Fairmont Hotels & Resorts
will remain the property’s manager.  The 591-room luxury hotel in San Francisco’s Nob Hill
neighborhood was put up for sale in June as part of a Maritz
Wolff plan to cut the size of its portfolio. An Oaktree fund and
Michael Rosenfeld, Woodridge’s founder, announced in November
that they purchased the Fairmont Orchid luxury hotel in  Hawaii .  Maritz Wolff, founded in 1994 by Lew Wolff and Philip
“Flip” Maritz, has been unable to get city permission to
convert a portion of the Fairmont San Francisco into a
residential tower. The Los Angeles-based firm acquired its stake
in the hotel in 1998.  ‘Implement the Improvements’  “Our desire to improve this Nob Hill property did not
materialize as we had hoped, and we are confident that perhaps a
different ownership will be able to implement the improvements
at the hotel, which we think will be beneficial to the city of
San Francisco,” Wolff, also co-owner of the Oakland Athletics
baseball team, said in an interview last June.  Maritz Wolff’s acquisition of the Fairmont San Francisco
was part of a purchase that included several other  Fairmont
hotels (FHR) , including properties in  Dallas  and  New Orleans . The firm
sold the Dallas hotel in 2006 and the one in New Orleans the
following year, according to the company’s website.  Oaktree in September made an investment in the Beverly
Hilton hotel in Los Angeles, averting a sale of the landmark
property, a person with knowledge of the situation said at the
time. The company manages assets of about $75 billion for public
and private pensions, corporations, sovereign-wealth funds and
other investors.  Marks and Rosenfeld didn’t immediately return e-mail and
telephone messages seeking comment. Lori Holland, a spokeswoman
for Fairmont Hotels & Resorts, declined to comment.  The agreement was reported earlier today by newsletter Real
Estate Alert.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  