-- Falcone’s LightSquared Hires Legal Team to Fight Regulators
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-03-13T22:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/falcone-s-lightsquared-hires-legal-team-to-fight-regulators-1-.html
Billionaire Philip Falcone’s
LightSquared Inc. hired litigators  Theodore Olson  and Eugene Scalia of  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP (1128L)  as it gears up for a
possible legal battle with U.S. regulators.  The wireless venture, facing a regulatory rejection for its
business plan, is seeking to make sure it doesn’t lose its
multibillion-dollar investment due to the government’s decision,
Olson, a former U.S. solicitor general, said today in an e-
mailed statement.  LightSquared is struggling to survive in the wake of the
Federal Communications Commission’s decision to block the
service because of potential signal interference with global-
positioning systems. Falcone, through his hedge fund Harbinger
Capital Partners, has invested about $3 billion in the venture,
and now may have bought one of the best legal teams available,
said  Lawrence Kaplan , a lawyer with  Paul Hastings  in Washington.  “Olson’s one of the sharpest minds in the legal world,”
Kaplan said. “You can’t go much higher.”  Olson, 71, served as President  George W. Bush ’s solicitor
general, arguing on the White House’s behalf at the  Supreme
Court  from 2001 to 2004. He also represented couples challenging
 California ’s 2008 Proposition 8 same-sex marriage ban.  A-Team  “Even though I disagree with him on many things, he’s a
deity,” Kaplan said of Olson.  Scalia, the other lawyer hired by LightSquared, is the son
of Supreme Court Justice  Antonin Scalia  and he brings some of
his own skills at fighting government decisions. Scalia, 48, has
had four straight victories toppling federal policies on behalf
of corporate clients at the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit in Washington.  The FCC in January 2011 granted LightSquared partial
approval of Falcone’s plan to convert satellite-only airwaves
for use in a terrestrial wireless service. The FCC said the
company couldn’t begin commercial service until it resolved
concern that the network would disrupt GPS devices.  Just over a year later, Feb. 14, the FCC grounded
Lightsquared’s venture after tests found that the proposed
ground-based network would interfere with navigation equipment
including gear used by aircraft, according to the  National
Telecommunications and Information Administration , a Commerce
Department division that helps oversee use of airwaves and
advises the FCC.  ‘Bogus Results’  While LightSquared vowed to seek a solution, it also said
in January the tests were rigged to produce “bogus results.”  Tammy Sun, an FCC spokeswoman, didn’t reply to an e-mail
and telephone call seeking comment.  The hiring of lawyers “doesn’t preclude other options,”
 Jeff Carlisle , LightSquared’s executive vice president of
regulatory affairs and public policy, said today in a telephone
interview. “But their decision to not allow us to go forward
isn’t supported by the law or technical policy. We are confident
about that and we are eager to prove our case.”  LightSquared was opposed by the Coalition to Save Our GPS,
a group that includes package shippers FedEx Corp. and United
Parcel Service Inc., GPS-unit maker Garmin Ltd., Delta Air Lines
Inc. and Southwest Airlines Co., and farm-gear maker Deere & Co.  “We will do all we can to ensure that LightSquared does
not lose billions of dollars in investments due to a
precipitous, arbitrary reversal by the government,” Olson said
in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  