-- Fatima Fertilizer Plans $1 Billion Africa Plant to Grow Overseas
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-03-13T19:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/fatima-fertilizer-plans-1-billion-africa-plant-to-grow-overseas.html
Fatima Fertilizer Co. (FATIMA) , Pakistan’s
third-biggest maker of the farming ingredient, plans to build a
new factory in Africa at an investment of about $1 billion to
tap international markets.  The company expects to finalize plans this year to set up
the factory, Fawad Ahmed Mukhtar, chief executive officer, said
in a telephone interview from his Lahore head office. The
fertilizer maker may consider forging a partnership by investing
$200 million, he said, without elaboration.  Fatima registered its American Depositary Receipts in New
York in March 2011 to raise its profile and expand overseas,
aiming to overcome a chronic gas shortage at home. Pakistani
fertilizer makers including Engro Fertilizer Ltd. and Fauji
Fertilizer Co. get as much as 50 percent less gas than they need
to run their factories, curbing production, according to
Foundation Securities Pvt. in Karachi.  Fatima’s planned  Africa  factory may have a capacity to
produce more than 1 million tons of fertilizer because the
company expects to get “the best gas rates,” Mukhtar said.  “Besides local sales, we are also looking to export from
there to Pakistan,  Brazil  and the markets in Africa,” Mukhtar
said yesterday. To set up the plant Fatima is considering
countries including  Nigeria ,  Algeria ,  Tanzania  and  Mozambique ,
where there is “enough gas, which means that they will offer us
good rates and good terms,” he said.  Fatima rose 1.6 percent to 24.90 rupees at the close in
Karachi yesterday. The stock has almost doubled in the past 12
months, compared with a 10 percent gain for the Karachi Stock
Exchange 100 Index.  Diversifying Risks  Companies in  Pakistan  including Lucky Cement Ltd., the
nation’s biggest producer of the building material, are
expanding overseas to cut dependence on their home market. Lucky
will begin construction of a cement factory in Congo by June
through a joint venture.  Expanding overseas will help companies including Fatima to
diversify risks, according to Taha Khan Javed, manager research
at Foundation Securities.  “Pakistan is facing a severe shortage of gas, so that
takes away the feasibility to establish a plant here,” said
Javed. “From Africa they can export anywhere in the world.”  The company will  rely on  a mix of its own cash, bank loans
and investment from partners to fund the new plant, Mukhtar said.
Fatima posted a net income of 4.12 billion rupees ($45 million)
in the year ended Dec. 31, the first annual profit in four years
after it started commercial operations in July.  The  Danish Industrialisation Fund for Developing Countries 
and Haldor Topsoe AS, a Denmark-based maker of catalysts, have
agreed to partner Fatima and will also help arrange funds,
Mukhtar said, without specifying if they will collaborate on the
African factory.  ADR Trading  “We are looking at projects internationally for setting up
new plants and starting production in two to three years,” said
Mukhtar. Depending on the “opportunity at hand,” Fatima may
set up more than one plant overseas, he said.  Fatima Fertilizer’s ADR, each representing 50 local shares,
may begin trading in the over-the-counter market in  New York  by
June, Mukhtar said. Bank of America Corp. is the market maker,
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. is the depositary, and Standard
Chartered Plc is the custodian bank, he said.  The listing will build the company’s profile among overseas
investors and help it raise funds for expansion, Mukhtar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  