-- Fed Says Labor Market Improves; Policy Unchanged
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-03-13T20:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/fed-says-labor-market-improves-leaves-policy-unchanged.html
Federal Reserve policy makers
raised their assessment of the economy as the labor market
gathers strength and refrained from new actions to lower
borrowing costs.  “The unemployment rate has declined notably in recent
months but remains elevated,” the  Federal Open Market Committee 
said in a statement at the conclusion of a meeting today in
Washington. It also said “strains in global financial markets
have eased, though they continue to pose significant downside
risks to the economic outlook.”  Stocks advanced, sending the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
toward its highest closing level since 2007, after the Fed
statement and as JPMorgan Chase & Co. increased its dividend.
The best six-month streak of job growth since 2006 prompted Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to acknowledge an improved path for the
economy, even as policy makers repeated that unemployment is
likely to stay high enough to warrant keeping borrowing costs
“exceptionally low” at least through late 2014.  “The Fed still doesn’t know which way the economy will
go,” Roberto Perli, a former senior staff economist at the Fed,
said in an interview on “The Hays Advantage” on Bloomberg
Radio. “Therefore I think they’re more inclined to ease than
they are to tighten.”  U.S. stocks advanced, sending the Dow Jones Industrial
Average to the highest level since 2007, as retail sales
increased by the most in five months and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
increased its dividend.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 1.8 percent to
1,396.06 at 4 p.m. New York time. The Dow rose 219.10 points, or
1.7 percent, to 13,178.81. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note rose to 2.12 percent from 2.03 percent late yesterday.  The Fed said it expects “moderate economic growth” and
predicted the unemployment rate “will decline gradually.” In
its last statement in January, it said growth would be
“modest” and unemployment “will decline only gradually.”  Operation Twist  Policy makers also said they will continue to swap $400
billion in short-term securities with long-term debt to lengthen
the average maturity of the central bank’s holdings, a move
dubbed Operation Twist. The Fed didn’t alter its policy of
reinvesting its portfolio of maturing housing debt into agency
mortgage-backed securities.  Inflation “has been subdued in recent months although
prices of crude oil and gasoline have increased lately,” the
Fed said today. The increase in oil will “push up inflation
temporarily, but the committee anticipates that subsequently
inflation will run at or below the rate that it judges most
consistent with its dual mandate.”  Rate Target  The central bank in December 2008 lowered its target
overnight  interest rate  to a range of zero to 0.25 percent, and
it later purchased $2.3 trillion of assets in two rounds of so
called quantitative easing.  “If the recent economic strength continues, then of course
all the plans for QE3 or other potential easing moves will be
set aside,” said Perli, managing director at International
Strategy and Investment Group Inc. in Washington.  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  dissented for the
second meeting in a row, saying he doesn’t anticipate that
economic conditions are likely to warrant exceptionally low
levels of the fed funds rate through late 2014. In the
explanation of his dissent after the January meeting, the 2014
time horizon was omitted.  The  U.S. economy  has gained strength as payroll growth
boosts consumer demand. Household confidence climbed earlier
this month to the highest level in four years, according to the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  “All of the data we’re seeing suggests the overall economy
and customer sentiment are improving,”  David Dillon , chairman
and chief executive of Kroger Co., the largest U.S. grocery
store chain, said in a March 1 earnings call.  Retail Sales  A government report today showed a 1.1 percent advance in
retail sales in February for the most in five months. The gain
followed a 0.6 percent increase in January that was larger than
previously estimated. Demand improved in 11 of 13 industry
categories, including auto dealers and clothing stores.  Consumers are getting a boost as job prospects brighten.
Employers added 227,000 workers in February, completing the best
six months for payroll growth since 2006.  “There’s real improvement here, and we’re definitely on
the recovery path” for employment, said  Scott Brown , chief
economist at  St. Petersburg , Florida-based Raymond James
Financial Inc., which oversees $300 billion.  Stock-market gains are contributing to consumer optimism
and spending power. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 9
percent this year through yesterday after completing its best
February since 1998. Before today, the benchmark for U.S.
equities rose 25 percent since concern about  Europe ’s debt
crisis pushed the gauge to a one-year low on Oct. 3.  Fed Forecasts  Still, most Fed policy makers in January forecast the
economy would grow 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent in 2012 and the
 unemployment rate  would end the year at 8.2 percent to 8.5
percent. By the end of 2014, the FOMC expects a jobless rate of
6.7 percent to 7.6 percent, still above their goal for maximum
employment of 5.2 percent to 6 percent.  Policy makers will update their economic forecasts at the
April 24-25 FOMC meeting, which will be followed by a press
conference with Bernanke.  “The economy from our vantage point is moving sideways,”
Dave Denton, chief financial officer of CVS Caremark Corp., the
largest U.S. provider of  prescription drugs , told analysts today
at a Barclays Capital conference in Miami. “I don’t see it
moving down at this point in time. But at the same token, I
don’t see it moving up in any significant fashion either.”  Fuel prices are a risk to  consumer spending . Rising oil has
pushed the national average cost of gasoline up to $3.81 a
gallon, from $3.28 at the start of the year, according to the
American Automobile Association.  Date Extended  At its January meeting, the FOMC said that economic
conditions would likely warrant keeping rates “exceptionally
low” at least through late 2014, extending a previous date of
mid-2013.  In November, the Fed joined with five other central banks
to cut the interest rate on swap lines providing dollar
liquidity to banks strained by Europe’s financial crisis.  These actions propelled the central bank’s balance sheet to
a record $2.94 trillion on Feb. 15, more than triple its size
before the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The  European Central Bank  is pausing its own easing
campaign after returning its benchmark rate to a record low of 1
percent in December, freeing up collateral rules and lending
banks an unprecedented 1.02 trillion euros ($1.34 trillion) for
three years.  Italian Bonds  Steps in Europe have paid off, with investors crediting ECB
President  Mario Draghi  for helping stabilize Europe’s two-year-
old debt crisis. Italy’s 10-year bond yields have fallen below 5
percent from more than 7 percent in January, and the Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index gained about 14
percent from Dec. 30 through yesterday.  “It’s certainly a much better time now than it was even at
the last meeting, and in multiple ways both in the U.S. economy
and in foreign markets,” George Mokrzan, director of economics
at Huntington Bancshares Inc. in Columbus,  Ohio , said before the
Fed’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  