-- Federal Reserve Stress Test Press Release (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-03-13T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/federal-reserve-stress-test-press-release-text-.html
Following is the press release text
of the  Federal Reserve ’s summary results of the latest round of
bank stress tests (click here for the full report):  The Federal Reserve on Tuesday announced summary results of the
latest round of bank stress tests, which show that the majority
of the largest U.S. banks would continue to meet supervisory
expectations for capital adequacy despite large projected losses
in an extremely adverse hypothetical economic scenario.  The Federal Reserve in the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and
Review (CCAR) evaluates the capital planning processes and
capital adequacy of the largest bank holding companies. This
exercise includes a supervisory stress test to evaluate whether
firms would have sufficient capital in times of severe economic
and financial stress to continue to lend to households and
businesses.  Reflecting the severity of the stress scenario--which includes a
peak unemployment rate of 13 percent, a 50 percent drop in equity
prices, and a 21 percent decline in housing prices--losses at the
19 bank holding companies are estimated to total $534 billion
during the nine quarters of the hypothetical stress scenario. The
aggregate tier 1 common capital ratio, which compares high-
quality capital to risk-weighted assets, falls from 10.1 percent
in the third quarter of 2011 to 6.3 percent in the fourth quarter
of 2013 in the hypothetical stress scenario. That number
incorporates the firms’ proposals for planned capital actions
such as dividends, share buybacks, and share issuance.  Despite the large hypothetical declines, the post-stress capital
level in the test exceeds the actual aggregate tier 1 common
ratio for the 19 firms prior to the government stress tests
conducted in the midst of the financial crisis in early 2009, and
reflects a significant increase in capital during the past three
years. In fact, despite the significant projected capital
declines, 15 of the 19 bank holding companies were estimated to
maintain  capital ratios  above all four of the regulatory minimum
levels under the hypothetical stress scenario, even after
considering the proposed capital actions, such as dividend
increases or share buybacks.1  It’s important to note that the Federal Reserve’s stress scenario
estimates are the outcome of deliberately stringent and
conservative assessments under hypothetical, adverse economic
conditions and the results are not forecasts or expected
outcomes.  Strong capital levels are critical to ensuring that banking
organizations have the ability to lend and to continue to meet
their financial obligations, even in times of economic
difficulty. U.S. firms have built up their capital levels under
the Federal Reserve’s leadership since the government stress
tests in 2009. The 19 bank holding companies that participated in
those tests and in the 2011 and 2012 CCAR have increased their
tier 1 common capital levels to $759 billion in the fourth
quarter of 2011 from $420 billion in the first quarter of 2009.
The tier 1 common ratio for these firms, which compares high-
quality capital to risk-weighted assets, has increased to a
weighted average of 10.4 percent from 5.4 percent.  The stronger capital position reflects in part substantially
lower capital distributions by bank holding companies, a result
of the Federal Reserve’s move to ensure the firms reduced or
eliminated dividends to maintain safety and soundness. Following
the first CCAR in 2011, the Federal Reserve allowed those
financial institutions with well-developed capital plans and
capital positions that would remain strong even under adverse
conditions to increase distributions, but at a prudent pace that
would ensure continued increases in capital. The 19 institutions
paid out 15 percent of net income in common dividends in 2011
compared with a payout of 38 percent of net income in 2006. They
also raised more in common equity than they repurchased in 2011.  The  stress test  is just one component of the Federal Reserve’s
evaluation of a bank holding company’s proposal to make capital
distributions. Other considerations include the strength of the
firm’s capital planning processes and plans to meet international
capital agreements as new requirements are phased in beginning in
2013.  1 The capital plans rule stipulates that the firms must
demonstrate their ability to maintain tier 1 common ratios above
5 percent. Further, the minimum levels for firms to be considered
adequately capitalized are 4 percent for the tier 1 ratio, 8
percent for the total capital ratio, and 3 or 4 percent for the
tier 1  leverage ratio , depending on whether the institution is
subject to the market risk capital charge. Ratios can be found on
table 3 of the attached paper.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  