-- EU Ministers Seek More Study of Financial-Transaction Tax
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-03-13T11:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/financial-transaction-tax-plan-divides-eu-ministers-in-brussels.html
European Union finance ministers
remain divided on a financial-transaction tax, with  France , one
of the main backers of the levy, saying it will allow more time
to reach an accord.  The ministers did not reach any decisions during debate in
Brussels today. They called for more study how much tax banks
pay and pledged to reconsider the issue later this year, along
with possible alternatives to the EU’s existing proposal.  “We hope for an accord that’s as broad as possible, and we
will take the time necessary to find as large an accord as
necessary, which is what’s wanted by the citizens of  Europe ,”
French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said as he arrived at
the meeting. France in the past has pressed for speedier passage
by a smaller group of nations if no broader coalition emerges.  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, has
proposed a wide-ranging tax on trading of stocks, bonds,
derivatives and other financial contracts. The commission says
the tax could raise 57 billion euros ($75 billion) annually if
implemented throughout the region, while also discouraging
transactions like high-frequency trading that it considers more
risky for the financial system.  Agreement Hopes  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the EU
should continue to strive for agreement among all 27 member
countries. At the same time, he said ministers should not back
away from the topic in the absence of global or EU-wide
consensus.  “I hope we will get it,” he said during a public debate.
“‘If not, I think we are obliged to concentrate on looking for
alternatives. The outcome of nothing would be disastrous.’’  The U.K.,  Sweden , Luxembourg and Malta are among the tax’s
skeptics, and these nations today reiterated their longstanding
positions.  The U.K.’s position is ‘‘unchanged,” although it concurs
that banks should pay their “fair share” of regulatory costs,
said U.K. Treasury Minister Mark Hoban, standing in for
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne . Hoban said it’s not
clear that banks would pay more overall tax if a broad levy were
included, since banks might find offsetting gains from other
parts of the  tax code .  ‘Increase Costs’  The Brussels-based commission and  Denmark , current holder
of the EU’s rotating presidency, have urged more technical work
to find a widely accepted compromise. Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta said today the EU is working on further analysis that it
aims to bring out before a working-group meeting in April.  Sweden’s Finance Minister Anders Borg said a tax was a bad
idea while European countries are seeking to boost growth and
cut debt. “A financial-transaction tax would be difficult to
accept,” he said. “It would increase household lending costs,
it would increase the cost for companies and it would increase
the cost for government, so it is a proposal that is not good
for European growth.”  The U.K., which already has a so-called stamp tax, has said
it will oppose any new transaction tax that doesn’t come with
backing from the Group of 20 major nations. Luxembourg’s Finance
Minister Luc Frieden said a tax is impossible without Britain,
home to Europe’s largest financial sector.  “Without the U.K. there will be no transaction tax,”
Frieden said on his way into the meeting. “I think the
principle of the tax is OK, but that all 27 states have to
participate.” During the public debate, he said the EU should
reconsider its geographic approach for applying a transaction
tax and should also consider the tax’s impact on jobs and the
overall economy.  Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said an EU-wide
financial-transaction tax would cause a “very big shift” in
trading location.  Nine officials, including Schaeuble, Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  and Baroin, have sent a joint letter to the Danish
EU presidency calling for faster talks to introduce the tax.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net 
Gregory Viscusi in Brussels at  gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  