-- Finland Should Cut Corporate, Dividend Taxes, Stadigh Group Says
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-03-13T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/finland-should-cut-corporate-dividend-taxes-stadigh-group-says.html
Finland  must eliminate taxes on
dividends paid to individuals and give tax breaks to companies
seeking to expand and add jobs, according to a group led by Kari Stadigh, chief executive officer of  Sampo Oyj. (SAMAS)   “The message must be that risk-taking is rewarded,”
Stadigh said yesterday at a briefing in Helsinki before
releasing the report today. “Everything that increases owners’
willingness to take risks and boosts employment in Finland is a
top priority.”  Finland has  Europe ’s fastest-aging population and needs
200,000 new jobs to fuel growth as the workforce shrinks and
benefit spending depletes state coffers. By 2020, about 2 1/2
working-age people will support one pensioner, down from about
four in 2000, the European Union’s statistics office projects.  The shrinking workforce means Finland’s potential economic
growth will be about 1.5 percent a year, slower than the average
3.3 percent growth in the northernmost euro member in the decade
to 2008, the  Finance Ministry  has said.  “Our problem is that we encourage giving out loans instead
of buying shares,” Stadigh said. “We simply must identify
where the loose capital is and reallocate it correctly.”  Shareholders of companies listed on Nasdaq OMX’s First
North market place, the less-regulated exchange aimed at smaller
companies, should pay the same tax on dividends as owners of
closely held companies, the group said. That would encourage
growth and bring about more listings at the stock exchange.  No Listings  There were no initial public offerings on Nasdaq OMX
Helsinki last year, compared with 29 IPOs last year in  Stockholm 
and a total of 53 entrants in the Finnish capital during the
information technology boom of 1999 and 2000.  Finland’s “more lenient” tax treatment of closely held
companies versus listed companies “hampers” the inflow of
capital from abroad and the growth of successful firms, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said on
Feb. 7.  Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s Cabinet will discuss the
group’s proposals tomorrow. It sent a proposal to let pension
funds make more effective use of their investment capital to
parliament on March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  