-- U.S. Retirees Face a Private-Savings Crisis: Clive Crook
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-03-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/for-workers-sake-reinvent-the-ownership-society-clive-crook.html
Here’s some good news about
America’s public-pension system. Contrary to many reports, the
country can afford it.  Social Security faces much less fiscal pressure over the
coming decades than pension systems in other advanced economies.
It will need patching, but the repairs aren’t that difficult.  But there’s bad news as well. When it comes to incomes in
retirement, fixing Social Security is the smaller part of what
needs to be done. The real challenge is to increase  saving .  The narrow fiscal problem is manageable because the U.S.
will have  plenty  of taxpayers. Americans retire  later  than most
Europeans, and they have more children, too, so the aging of the
 U.S. population  is less pronounced. Between now and 2050, the
U.S. working age population will expand, whereas  Europe ’s will
shrink. The fundamental variable is the ratio of U.S. pensioners
to workers: This will rise as the  baby boomers  retire, but more
slowly than elsewhere.  America’s public-pension problem is easier in another way.
Again by advanced-economy standards, the U.S. commitment to
 government spending  on pensions is middling rather than high.
True, if you fold government spending on health care for senior
citizens into the mix, things look a lot worse, thanks to rising
health costs. There, the U.S. is a global outlier. But if you
look just at incomes in retirement, the projected cost of Social
Security is moderate.  Old and Broke  America’s real pension problem is not that Social Security
is going bust, but that the retirement incomes it will provide
are too  small . Too many people will rely exclusively on Social
Security. Private pension saving -- increasingly through 401(k)s
and other defined-contribution vehicles rather than traditional
defined-benefit plans -- is inadequate, and fees eat up too much
of the return for small savers. For many families, saving
through  home equity  has turned out to be a catastrophic mistake.
When they retire, many baby boomers will see a far bigger drop
in their standard of living than they had expected. Many will
have to work longer, whether they want to or not.  To mend the system, the U.S. must do two things. First, the
easy part, get Social Security back in fiscal balance. Second,
supplement it with a new retirement saving plan.  In cold fiscal terms, Social Security is a pay-as-you-go
transfer system (current taxes pay for current benefits)
masquerading as a funded savings plan (in which benefits are
paid out of the return on investments). Benefits already  exceed 
payroll tax receipts, and this gap will grow. Forget the “ trust
fund ” and its holdings of government debt. That’s money the
government owes to itself: It nets out to zero. What counts is
that the system is now adding to the  budget deficit , and will
add more with time. Some combination of spending cuts and tax
increases -- either within the Social Security budget or outside
it -- will be needed to balance the books.  This calls for nothing too drastic. A gradual increase in
the  retirement age  to reflect rising life expectancy is most of
what’s required to pay for benefits at roughly the existing
rate. But managing Social Security’s burden on the budget
doesn’t raise incomes in retirement. For that, people need to
save more -- and those without the means to do so will need
help.  Why not simply acknowledge that Social Security is not a
savings plan but a transfer system, make it more generous,
means-test it to limit the cost and then raise other taxes to
pay the bill? That approach has the advantage of fiscal
simplicity, but the politics doesn’t work.  Making Privatization Work  The fact is, the masquerade serves a purpose. Support for
Social Security is strong precisely because people see it as a
savings plan. They have paid into the system -- or so the
letters from the  Social Security Administration  tell them every
year -- and they feel entitled to what the system owes them.
Recasting Social Security as just another welfare program would
be the first step toward dismantling it altogether.  The opposite approach is partial privatization, as tried by
 George W. Bush . The idea was to let people divert some of their
payroll taxes to a private pension. All being well, they could
expect a higher return on that money, so adding their private
pension and their diminished entitlement to Social Security
together, they would come out ahead. One problem is that savers
would have to bear more financial risk -- not something you
should ask people of limited means to do. Another is that the
shortfall in payroll tax receipts would drive Social Security
deeper into deficit, which subtracts from national saving when
one of the goals in all this is to increase it.  Even so, it’s a pity that Bush’s plan was trashed so
viciously. Greater private saving should be part of the solution
-- as an addition to Social Security, rather than a replacement
in whole or in part. Building the “ownership society” Bush
talked about is surely a worthy goal. Democrats shouldn’t
renounce that idea because of its provenance. The idea that
retirees “own” their Social Security benefits -- as illusory in
fiscal terms as that notion might be -- accounts for the
country’s devotion to the system, and this devotion is telling.
People want and should be granted ownership of the assets they
will need to support them in retirement.  How, specifically, might this be done? I’d recommend, as a
start, that an additional 5 percent be deducted from wages and
invested in a choice of pooled accounts holding a mixture of
domestic and foreign assets. Pooling and central administration
would keep fees very low. Balances would accumulate tax-free
until retirement; distributions would then be taxed. I’d also
advocate that taxpayers provide a subsidy to those on low
incomes, sufficient to cover the whole deduction for those
earning the minimum wage, so that everybody could afford to save
through their retirement account. To help meet the cost of this
taxpayer subsidy, narrow the existing tax preferences for
saving, which flow to those on higher incomes who least need the
help.  The aim would be to make the subsidy and the plan as a
whole both revenue-neutral and progressive. Revenue neutrality
means that public saving would not decline. Moving the subsidy
from rich to poor improves equity, and will probably increase
private saving overall. That’s because the existing subsidy for
saving by high-income households diverts saving to tax-preferred
vehicles more than it increases saving overall. Directing the
subsidy to people who can afford to save little or nothing now
would therefore raise saving in the aggregate.  Social Security can be easily mended -- but the U.S. needs
to be more ambitious than that. The “ownership society” is part
of the answer. Rather than scorning that idea, Democrats should
make it their own.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 