-- Foreclosed Homeowners Inspire Museum’s Architects Show
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/foreclosed-homeowners-inspire-museum-s-architects-show-james-s-russell.html
Amid a housing market profoundly
altered by stagnant incomes, declining wealth and Wall Street
folly, the Museum of  Modern Art  displays a waterfall cascading
down an atrium in a high-rise apartment.  It’s a moment of refreshing whimsy from an exhibition that
envisions what’s possible when politicians offer only pitiful
nostrums.  The MoMA show “Foreclosed: Rehousing the American Dream”
doesn’t suggest that architecture can float underwater
mortgages. Barry Bergdoll, chief curator of architecture and
design, working with MoMA satellite museum P.S. 1, matched five
architect teams with hard-hit areas across the country. They
envisioned the kinds of communities today’s market could
support.  You’ll find the waterfall in towers proposed by Amale
Andraos and Dan Wood of the New York firm  WORKac  for the Keizer
suburb of Salem,  Oregon . They make the storage of water a
feature by spilling it from rooftop tanks on its way to faucets.
They also designed a park-covered domed structure over a
community composting plant.  Yes, it’s partly tongue in cheek, but the clustering of
pleasant blocks of townhouses and towers along a grid of streets
leaves more space for woods, ponds and fields. They scribe their
new streets through the natural landscape to remind you what was
saved.  ‘Recombinant’ House  Chicago architect Jeanne Gang of  Studio Gang Architects 
addressed big immigrant families who have cut up stolid brick
rowhouses to form crowded apartments in Cicero,  Illinois .  She proposed a “recombinant” house that could wrap itself
around a big living room shared by the extended family. Or the
home could sit atop a startup business.  The real-estate industry doesn’t know how to finance such
sensible arrangements, which have a long history. It’s still
easier to borrow for a McMansion, even though the U.S. has about
five million too many of them, according to Arthur C. Nelson, a
housing analyst who directs the Metropolitan Research Center at
the University of Utah.  Los Angeles architect  Andrew Zago  confronted a largely
unbuilt subdivision near foreclosure-decimated San Bernardino,
 California . Desert dust swirls around the 10 percent of planned
houses that have been built.  He suggests a land-banking program that would give the
community the power to devise a future for itself, rather than
waiting years for distant speculators to decide what to do.  Skinny Houses  Hilary Sample and Michael Meredith, two  New York  City
architects with the firm  MOS , show skinny houses wriggling down
underused streets in Orange,  New Jersey .  The pair advocate selling them with “portable” mortgages:
attached to the owner rather than to the house. Buyers would
gain the wealth-building advantage of owning with the mobility
of renting.  Strict credit criteria and 20 percent down payments are
turning America into a nation of renters, so Michael Bell of New
York’s  Visible Weather  suggests a tight mix of commercial,
government and residential functions on a 225-acre site near
Tampa to reduce costs.  A museum isn’t an ideal venue to start a discussion of
lending tactics, but architectural form significantly derives
from finance, so it is wise to try out new models that could
make housing more responsive to what people can spend and the
way they live.  Weak Case  Unfortunately the architects in this show only
intermittently make a persuasive case for their visions. Bell
inventively harnesses  Florida ’s subtropical climate and
lifestyle in his design, “Simultaneous City,” but the models
and drawings are about as alluring as a sanatorium.  Zago fell in love with too-clever pixelated imagery as he
pursued the valuable idea of rethinking public and private
property rights to create more amenities at lower cost.  I did not expect to be disappointed by this show, since it
is the third exhibition by Bergdoll that links the talents of
architects to a formidable social issue.  Bergdoll laid a solid base of research for successful
exhibitions on prefabrication and climate-change effects on New
York Bay. This time the teams relied on a philosophical treatise
developed by Reinhold Martin at  Columbia University ’s
architecture school called  “The Buell Hypothesis.”  It claims to
use a screenplay form to develop a Socratic dialog that unfolds
like a road movie. Block that metaphor.  Bergdoll has defined his curatorship as restoring
architecture to its proper place at the center of national
concerns. He recognizes that its best practitioners never
separate aesthetics from problem solving; they seamlessly
interweave both.  I say keep trying.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 