-- Former Rangers Forward Sean Avery Retires on Reality TV Show
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-13T21:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/former-n-y-rangers-forward-sean-avery-retires-on-reality-television-show.html
Former  New York Rangers  forward
Sean Avery announced his retirement from the  National Hockey
League  on a reality television show.  The 31-year-old Avery, speaking on Bravo’s “ Watch What
Happens Live ,” said his 10-year career has come to an end. He
was assigned to the Rangers’ minor-league affiliate  Connecticut
Whale  on Dec. 31, two months after fans at Madison Square Garden
chanted for his return to the NHL.  “I am officially retired,” he said last night during the
show’s online segment. “I threw my skates in the Hudson.”  Avery has not yet filed retirement papers with the NHL,
league spokesman John Dellapina said today in an e-mail. Pat
Morris, Avery’s agent, didn’t return a message left at his
office.  Avery, who was an intern with the fashion magazine Vogue in
2008, told the  New York Post  today that he intends to retire at
the end of the season to pursue a career with an advertising
agency. He is in the final year of a four-year, $15.5 million
contract that he signed with the  Dallas Stars  in 2008, according
to the Post.  “I guess that was my retirement press conference,” he
told the newspaper. “I couldn’t be happier about the
situation.”  Avery played 15 games for the Rangers this season after
being recalled from the Whale in November, a move prompted by
chants and banners in  New York ’s home arena. Avery scored three
goals and had 21 minutes in penalties for the Rangers before
being sent back to the AHL.  Avery last played for the Whale on Jan. 27. He was told
this month that he would be left off the team’s postseason
roster and that he was no longer needed at practice or games,
ESPN  reported .  Waived by Dallas  Avery played with the Rangers from 2006 to 2008 before
joining the Stars as a free agent. He was waived after 23 games
in  Dallas  when he angered management with negative comments
about actress Elisha Cuthbert, his former girlfriend, dating
another NHL player. The league also suspended him for six games,
calling his remarks detrimental to the sport.  Avery returned to the Rangers that season and drew a
response from the league in the 2008 playoffs, when he spent a
5-on-3 power play waving his stick and arms in the face of New
Jersey Devils goaltender Martin Brodeur. The following day, the
NHL changed its rules to make such action a two-minute
unsportsmanlike-conduct penalty.  Avery and  Colorado Avalanche  forward Steve Downie were the
only NHL players with more than 20 points and 150 penalty
minutes in the 2009-10 and 2010-11 seasons. Avery led the NHL in
penalty minutes during the 2003-04 and 2005-06 seasons.  He had 247 points and 1,533 penalty minutes in his NHL
career with the  Detroit Red Wings ,  Los Angeles Kings , Rangers
and Stars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  