-- Ex-New Zealand Rugby Union Chairman Jock Hobbs Dies at 52
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-13T05:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/former-all-blacks-captain-and-nzru-chairman-jock-hobbs-dies-at-age-52.html
Former  New Zealand  Rugby Union
Chairman and All Blacks captain Jock Hobbs died today, six years
after being diagnosed with leukemia. He was 52.  Hobbs, who played 21 Tests for the All Blacks as a flanker
before a career as an administrator, died at Wellington
Hospital, his family said in a statement released by the NZRU.  “New Zealand has lost an inspirational leader with an
incredible passion for the game of rugby and the part it plays
in our lives,” NZRU Chairman Mike Eagle said in a statement.  Hobbs played for the All Blacks 39 times, making his debut
in 1983 and captaining the team on 16 occasions, according to
the NZRU. Recurring concussion ended his career in 1986, the
year before the inaugural Rugby  World Cup .  He turned to coaching and administration, and was elected
to the NZRU council in 1995, although he wasn’t included when a
smaller board was established in 1996. While a member of the
council, Hobbs helped ensure New Zealand’s top players stayed
loyal to the governing body amid rival offers as the sport went
professional.  Hobbs was re-elected to the board in 2002 as chairman,
where he remained until his health forced him to step down in
2010. He led New Zealand’s presentation team to Dublin in 2005
during the successful bid to host the 2011 Rugby World Cup and
became chairman of the tournament’s organizing body. He stepped
down from both roles in 2010, during which he underwent six
months of chemotherapy.  ‘Finest Hour’  “Jock was the man who convinced Dublin that New Zealand
should host last year’s  Rugby World Cup ,” New Zealand Prime
Minister John Key said in an e-mailed statement. “This was
possibly his finest hour. Winning the trophy was certainly one
of New Zealand’s finest hours.”  Michael James Bowie Hobbs was born in Christchurch on Feb.
15, 1960.  He was also was a former chief executive and director of
Strategic Finance Ltd., a non-bank lender to property developers
and other small businesses, which was placed in receivership in
March 2010 after the value of its loan book slumped and it was
unable to meet payments to debenture holders and depositors.  Hobbs is survived by his wife, Nicky, a sister of former
All Blacks full-back and Australia coach  Robbie Deans , and
children Emily, Michael, Penny and Isabelle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  