-- Frankfurt 17 Night Flight Rule May Be Lifted, Top Court Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-03-13T17:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/frankfurt-17-night-flight-rule-may-be-lifted-top-court-says-1-.html
The state of Hesse’s plan to allow
17 nights flights on a new Frankfurt airport runway may face
additional reviews after a German court said local residents and
communities weren’t adequately heard on the issue.  Residents who challenged  Fraport AG (FRA) ’s expansion and night
flights may win that part of the case on procedural grounds,
Presiding Judge Ruediger Rubel said at the Federal
Administrative Court in Leipzig today. The state would have to
grant the plaintiffs a new hearing and issue a new decision. The
court’s assessment is preliminary and may change after hearing
arguments, he said.  “The court’s task isn’t to make its own planning
decisions, it’s rather to review whether the authorities’
planning violated rights,” Rubel said when opening the hearing.
“The law grants the authorities a wide leeway and it’s not our
task to come up with better ideas to substitute those of the
competent planning body.”  The runway and night flights were challenged by local
residents, neighboring cities and businesses. The state of
Hesse, where Frankfurt is located, in 2007 approved Fraport’s
plan to build an additional runway and a third terminal,
enabling  Europe ’s No. 3 airport to handle more flights. The
state allowed an average of 150 night flights and capped the
number between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. at 17.  Noise Concerns  A lower court approved the extension in 2009 while asking
the state of Hesse to review its decision on night flights
because of noise concerns. While allowing the runway to be
completed and used while the case is pending, in October the
lower court temporarily halted flights between 11 p.m. and 5
a.m. because it said the residents were likely to prevail on
that part of their case.  The state of Hesse, the target of the lawsuit, defends the
project, including the 17 night flights, and is supported by
Fraport, which is participating in the case.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  had lost a separate bid in the lower
court to expand the number on flights between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m.
It has asked the top court for permission to appeal and Leipzig
judges still have to decide on that request. Lufthansa,  TUI AG (TUI1) 
and Thomas Cook AG’s Condor are affected by the current
preliminary ban on night flights, according to Fraport.  The hearing will continue tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Leipzig via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  