-- U.K. Stocks Rise for a Fifth Day as Prudential Advances
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-03-13T17:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/ftse-stocks-post-longest-winning-streak-since-july-standard-life-climbs.html
U.K. stocks  rose for a fifth day to
an eight-month high as investors turned their attention toward
tonight’s  Federal Reserve  meeting after the euro area’s finance
ministers approved a second bailout for Greece.  Prudential Plc climbed after the insurer reported profit
that beat analysts’ estimates.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  advanced after the
company dropped its bid for Ludowici Ltd. Housebuilders rallied
after the British government announced it will underwrite part
of the loans to buyers of new properties.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 63.16, or 1.1 percent, to
5,955.91 at the close in London, for its highest level since
July. The gauge has  rallied 6.9 percent this year  as the
 European Central Bank  disbursed 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion)
of loans to the region’s banks. The FTSE All-Share Index jumped
1.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index rallied 1.6
percent.  “The market is very quiet with everyone waiting for the
Fed announcement tonight,” said Chris Beauchamp, market analyst
at IG Index in  London . “There is still a lot of desire to push
the market higher, but no one really knows what will be the next
real catalyst. Generally with the U.S. economy improving, that
remains the main motor.”  The Fed will announce its interest-rate decision after the
close of European trading. Economists expect policy makers to
refrain from further action to boost growth as the Fed assesses
recent data. The Wall Street Journal reported last week that the
U.S. central bank is considering a strategy that will allow it
to undertake another round of bond buying, while lowering the
risk of inflation.  Volume of Shares  The FTSE 100 added 0.1 percent yesterday as a report
showing  China ’s exports trailed economists forecasts limited
gains on the benchmark measure. The volume of shares changing
hands was 12 percent less than the average over the past 30 days
today, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Euro-area finance ministers cleared Greece’s second bailout
yesterday, enabling the first payment from the 130 billion-euro
package to be made this month and concluding months of
negotiations between Greece, the  International Monetary Fund  and
the euro area’s authorities.  Prudential (PRU)  jumped 4.8 percent to 763 pence after the U.K.’s
biggest insurer by market value posted a 7 percent increase in
full-year operating profit to 2.07 billion pounds ($3.3 billion)
as its Asian business became the largest contributor to earnings
for the first time. That topped the 2.02 billion-pound median
analyst estimate.  Weir Group, Homebuilders  Weir Group advanced 2.6 percent to 1,992 pence after the
world’s biggest maker of pumps for the  mining industry  dropped
its bid for Ludowici after competing with FLSmidth & Co. to buy
the Australian company. Weir’s Chief Executive Officer, Keith Cochrane, said a “materially higher offer would not have met
the rigorous financial criteria.”  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/)  led housebuilders higher, rallying 4.3
percent to 52.1 pence after the government said it will help
buyers with small cash deposits to buy new homes. Prime Minister
David Cameron’s office estimated that the plan will help as many
as 100,000 buyers. Credit Suisse Group AG recommended that
investors buy shares of housebuilders and increased its
earnings-per-share forecast for the industry by 6 percent for
2012 and 14 percent for 2013.  “Only a small fraction” of the 100,000 sales estimated by
Cameron’s office are necessary to boost homebuilder earnings,
analysts Harry Goad and Arnaud Lehmann wrote in the report.  Persimmon, Bellway Rise  Persimmon Plc (PSN)  gained 1.5 percent to 680 pence and  Bellway
Plc (BWY)  climbed 2.5 percent to 846.5 pence.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, owner of
British Airways and Iberia, climbed 4.4 percent to 170.4 pence
as Iberia confirmed that unions have called off strikes due to
start on March 16. The airline said an independent mediator will
discuss the wage dispute with pilots.  Intertek Group Plc (ITRK)  rose 1.6 percent to 2,495 pence after
Citigroup Inc. reiterated its buy rating for the company and
raised its price estimate for the shares by 27 percent to 2,800
pence.  “We believe this high sector premium is warranted as
Intertek offers some of the highest organic growth and return on
capital employed in the sector,” analysts wrote in a report
dated today.  3I Group, Inchcape  3I Group Plc (III)  jumped 6.9 percent to 210 pence, the biggest
advance since May 2010. The  Guardian newspaper  reported that the
private-equity firm’s management may buyout the company.  Analysts at Killik & Co. said speculation will continue
while the shares trade so far below asset value. The brokerage
reiterated its buy rating on the stock.  Inchcape Plc (INCH)  surged 11 percent to 418.2 pence after the
company reported  full-year pretax profit  and revenue that beat
 analysts’ estimates .  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  fell 2.3 percent to 1,241 pence. The copper
producer reported an 18 percent increase in 2011 net income to
$1.24 billion, missing the average analyst estimate of $1.26
billion. The dividend fell to 44 cents a share, including a 24-
cent special payment, from $1.16 a year earlier.  G4S Plc lost 2.1 percent to 283.5 pence after the company
reported full-year profit and sales that missed analysts’
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  