-- George W. Bush Says Keystone XL Pipeline a ‘No-Brainer’
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-03-13T22:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/george-w-bush-says-keystone-pipeline-is-a-no-brainer-.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL
pipeline, which would carry oil from landlocked Alberta to the
U.S. Gulf Coast, is a “no-brainer” that would create jobs and
bolster the economy, former President  George W. Bush  said.  The $7.6 billion Keystone XL line would generate private-
sector employment and government revenue, he said at an American
Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers conference in San Diego. The
U.S. government’s  budget deficit  is unsustainable and must be
reduced by supporting industry, Bush said.  “The clear goal ought to be how to get the private sector
to grow,” said Bush, who spoke during a luncheon at the
conference. “If you say that, then an issue like the Keystone
pipeline becomes an easy issue.”  President  Barack Obama  denied a U.S. State Department
permit for the 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) pipeline in January
because of concern that it posed risks to environmentally
sensitive areas in Nebraska. Republican senators, including John Hoeven of North Dakota, vowed last week to try again to speed
approval of the line after failing to round up enough Democratic
support for an amendment that would have expedited the project.  The Senate failed today to adopt a separate amendment
proposed by Republican Senator  Pat Roberts  of Kansas that would
have allowed TransCanada to build the pipeline.  The Keystone line would create a new way to carry Canadian
imports outside the Midwest and reduce an oil surplus that’s
depressing prices in the central U.S. TransCanada, based in
Calgary, would move 830,000 barrels of oil a day across the line
from Hardisty, Alberta, to Nederland, Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  