-- German Investor Confidence Surges as Debt Crisis Eases
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-03-13T11:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/german-investor-confidence-rises-on-signs-of-sovereign-debt-crisis-easing.html
German investor confidence jumped
to a 21-month high in March after the  European Central Bank 
flooded financial markets with cash and the sovereign debt
crisis showed signs of abating.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said today its index of investor and analyst expectations, which
aims to predict economic developments six months in advance,
advanced to 22.3 from 5.4 in February. That’s the fourth
straight increase and the highest reading since June 2010.
Economists forecast a gain to 10, according to the median of 36
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Germany’s benchmark  DAX share index  is up 18 percent this
year, outperforming its main European counterparts as investors
bet the region’s largest economy will return to growth after
shrinking in the fourth quarter of 2011. The ECB’s injection of
more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of three-year loans
into the banking system in an attempt to unlock credit for
companies and households is also helping to fuel a rally on
European bond markets.  “Investors have obviously buried any German recession
concerns,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels. “The ECB loans, progress on solving the crisis and
the latest rally on stock markets have more than offset the
negative impact from higher oil prices and the fact that the
cold winter may have damped growth in February.”  Current Situation  ZEW’s gauge of the current economic situation eased to 37.6
from 40.3 in February. The euro declined after the release to
$1.3117 at 12:07 p.m. in Frankfurt from $1.3145 beforehand.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said March 9 that the outlook
for the 17-nation euro area, Germany’s largest export market,
“has improved enormously” and there are “many signs of
returning confidence in the euro.”  In Asia, Japan’s central bank rejected lawmakers’ calls to
expand asset purchases today for a second straight month,
spurring stocks to surrender gains.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and all but one of his
colleagues on the  Bank of Japan (8301)  board declined to boost asset
buying after adding 10 trillion yen ($120 billion) in stimulus
last month. The bank instead unveiled a 2 trillion-yen increase
in a program aimed at lifting Japan’s long-term growth rate,
with 1 trillion yen of the credit to be in U.S. dollars.  In the U.S., the best six months of job gains since 2006
have helped reduce the odds of a third round of asset purchases
by the  Federal Reserve , according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. The Federal Open Market Committee meets today and
plans to release a statement at about 2:15 p.m. after its
gathering in  Washington .  Greek Crisis  Greece  pushed through the biggest sovereign restructuring
in history last week, cajoling investors to forgive more than
100 billion euros of debt. Euro-region finance ministers
subsequently agreed Greece has met conditions for a second
rescue package worth 130 billion euros designed to prevent a
collapse of the  Greek economy  and contain the debt crisis.  The Bundesbank said on Feb. 20 the outlook for  Germany ’s
economy has “improved perceptibly,” even though “risks
relating to the sovereign debt crisis remain.” It forecast in
December that growth will slow to 0.6 percent this year from 3
percent in 2011 before accelerating to 1.8 percent in 2013.  Inflation Risks  Audi AG (NSU) , the world’s second-largest maker of luxury
vehicles, said on March 1 it is targeting 2012 profit “on par”
with last year’s record results as higher sales offset increased
spending on new models and factories.  Still, austerity measures across  Europe  are curbing foreign
sales and clouding growth prospects. The euro-area economy will
shrink 0.3 percent this year, driven by contractions of 1.3
percent in Italy and 1 percent in Spain, the European Commission
said Feb. 23.  Adding to the euro region’s headwinds is a 40 percent jump
in  oil prices  over the last five months that is pushing up
inflation and eating into household spending, said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London .  While slower economic growth outweighed the impact of
higher energy prices, pushing down inflation in France and Spain
for February according to data published today, price growth
accelerated in Germany. In Italy, the inflation rate stayed at
3.4 percent, well above the ECB’s inflation limit, a report
showed today.  “Investors see the need for rate increases given the
increased inflation expectations, but politically they don’t see
it taking place,” said ZEW economist Michael Schroeder.  Still, concerns about inflation were offset by “recent
positive data,” said  Ralph Solveen , an economist at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt .  Fears about slowing growth “are vanishing,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  