-- German Bunds Fall After Investor Confidence Improves; Greek Bonds Decline
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-13T16:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/german-government-bonds-fall-before-confidence-report-as-spain-reprimanded.html
German bunds fell, pushing 10-year
yields up by the most in a month, as a report showing investor
confidence in  Europe ’s largest economy improved sapped demand
for the region’s safest securities.  Bunds dropped for the first time in three days as stocks
rose around the world after a U.S. government report showed
retail sales accelerated in February. Greek bonds issued to
investors as part of the nation’s debt swap declined on their
first full day of trading. Spanish securities slipped after
European finance chiefs meeting yesterday called on the nation
to make deeper budget cuts.  “Risk sentiment has improved,” said  David Schnautz , a
fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “Bund
yields are close to recent lows, so there’s some resistance to
go lower. The ZEW survey was comfortably above expectations,”
he said, referring to the German investor-confidence data.  The yield on the 10-year bund climbed six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 1.82 percent at 4:35 p.m.  London  time
after rising as much as seven basis points, the most since Feb.
13. The 2 percent bond due January 2022 fell 0.52, or 5.20 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,311) face amount, to 101.645.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research said its
 index (SXXP)  of German investor and analyst expectations, which aims to
predict economic developments six months in advance, improved to
22.3 this month from 5.4 in February. U.S. retail sales gained
1.1 percent last month after rising 0.6 percent in January, the
Commerce Department said in  Washington .  The Stoxx Europe 600  Index (SXXP)  of shares gained 1.8 percent,
and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent.  Greek ‘Problems’  Greek 10- and 30-year bonds declined as investors remained
concerned about the nation’s ability to reduce its debts even
after euro-area finance ministers signed off on a 130 billion-
euro bailout program yesterday.  Yields on shorter-maturity bonds climbed more than those on
longer-term debt, inverting the so-called yield curve.  The yield on the 2 percent bonds due in February 2023 rose
57 basis points, to 19.02 percent. The price slid 1.085 to 26.75
cents on the euro. The rate on the 2042 debt climbed 41 basis
points to 14.2 percent, meaning investors get 482 basis points
less yield for holding the longer-dated securities.  “ Greece  still has problems, in spite of the debt swap and
restructuring,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist
at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “Debt
sustainability remains a key concern, and that’s reflected in
the prices and the shape of the yield curve.”  Highest Volatility  Volatility in Greek debt was the second highest in euro-
area markets today behind Finnish securities, according to
measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and
credit-default swaps.  Spanish 10-year bonds fell for a second day after European
finance chiefs called on the nation to prune an additional 0.5
percent of gross domestic product out of the 2012 budget. Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  on March 2 unilaterally raised the
country’s deficit target for this year.  Rajoy’s goal of a deficit of 5.8 percent of GDP in 2012
“is dead,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
yesterday after chairing a meeting of euro-area finance
ministers in Brussels.  The Spanish  10-year (GSPG10YR)  bond yield climbed nine basis points to
5.14 percent.  Italian Notes  Italian notes declined before the nation sells as much as 6
billion euros of three- and seven-year debt tomorrow. The two-
year yield rose five basis points to 2.02 percent.  Investors should sell 30-year French bonds and buy their
U.K. equivalents, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts
wrote in a note to clients.  “The timing for initiating or adding to this trade is
appropriate given the upcoming U.K. budget, which we believe
will provide further reassurance on the fiscal front and the
looming French elections,” according to the note written by
Biagio Lapolla, Claire Tucker and  Andrew Roberts .  Should Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande  defeat
incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy , his commitment to lowering the
 retirement age  and objection to the euro-region’s fiscal compact
may lead to “a non-negligible probability of  France  being
downgraded,” they wrote.  The extra yield offered by French 30-year bonds over U.K.
securities may widen to 80 basis points, the analysts said. The
spread is currently 40 basis points.  The extra yield offered by U.S. Treasuries over German
bunds widened to as much as 28.6 basis points, the most since
Aug. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 10-year Treasury yield climbed four basis points to
2.08 percent. The spread between the nations’ two-year notes was
15 basis points after expanding to 16.7 basis points yesterday,
the most since June 2010. The  Federal Reserve  meets to review
monetary policy today.  German bunds have returned 0.4 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds gained 2.7 percent,
and French bonds rose 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 