-- Goldman Sachs to Pay $7 Million Over CFTC Trading-Account Claims
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-13T19:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/goldman-sachs-to-pay-7-million-over-cftc-trading-account-claims.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to
pay $7 million to resolve regulatory claims it failed to
properly supervise commodities trading accounts, the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission said.  The regulator accused the New York-based firm’s Goldman
Sachs Execution & Clearing LP unit of failing to supervise
subaccounts managed from 2007 to 2009 by a broker-dealer that
had engaged in “questionable conduct,” the CFTC said in a
statement today. Goldman Sachs agreed to disgorge $1.5 million
in fees and commissions it had collected from the broker and pay
a $5.5 million civil penalty, the agency said.  “When registrants become aware of questionable activity,
they must not simply rely on assurances from interested parties
and their representatives, but instead must diligently
investigate,” said David Meister, the CFTC’s enforcement chief,
in a statement. “As this case indicates, the Commission will
hold registrants accountable if they fail in this regard.”  In its first-quarter financial disclosures last year,
Goldman Sachs disclosed its cooperation with an ongoing CFTC
investigation into supervision of a client broker-dealer. The
CFTC said Goldman Sachs “knew or should have known that the
client’s subaccounts maintained at GSEC were actually accounts
belonging to customers of the broker-dealer client and not the
client’s proprietary accounts,” the company said.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman at Goldman Sachs in  New York ,
declined to comment on the settlement. The company resolved the
claims without admitting or denying wrongdoing, the CFTC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 