-- Greece Has Ratings Upgraded by Fitch on Distressed Debt Exchange
-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r
-- 2012-03-13T18:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/greece-upgraded-from-selective-default-by-fitch-after-debt-swap.html
Greece’s credit rating was lifted
out of the default category by  Fitch Ratings  on optimism that a
debt swap will reduce the risk that the country eventually
reneges on its obligations.  Greece was raised four levels to B- from restricted default
and given a stable outlook by Fitch, according to an e-mailed
statement today in London. New  government bonds  have a B-rating,
while debt that is not governed by Greek law has a C rating
pending settlement on April 11, Fitch said.  “Completion of the exchange has cured the rating default
event,” Fitch said in a statement. “The distressed debt
exchange and the losses imposed on bondholders have
significantly improved Greece’s debt service profile and reduced
the risk of a recurrence of near-term repayment difficulties on
the new Greek government securities.”  Greece last week used so-called collective action clauses
to push through a debt swap that may eventually cut the
country’s debt burden to 120 percent of gross domestic product
by 2020 from as high as 170 percent. The transaction was part of
a bailout package agreed with the European Union to stave off a
collapse of the country’s economy.  “It’s purely a mechanical operation, although I think the
stable outlook is questionable,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed
income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in London.  ‘Material’ Risk  At the same time, Fitch said that Greece remains at risk.  “The agency considers that significant and material
default risk remains in light of the still very high level of
indebtedness” and “profound economic challenges,” Fitch said.
Still, “there is a limited margin of safety for debt service on
the new securities over a 12-to-24 month horizon, reflected in
the stable outlook.”  The debt swap seeks to wipe more than 100 billion euros
($131 billion) off Greece’s books and contain economic turmoil
as European officials work to hold Greek leaders to their
commitments. The deal allowed euro-area finance ministers to
sign off on the second bailout late yesterday, clearing the way
for the first payment from the 130 billion-euro package.  Greece  is now in line to receive more than 100 billion
euros in the next three years from the European Financial
Stability Facility, the euro region’s temporary rescue fund.
That will start with payments of 5.9 billion euros in March, 3.3
billion euros in April and 5.3 billion euros in May, according
to EFSF Chief Executive Officer Klaus Regling.  Greece’s Challenge  The government faces the challenge of continuing to meet
targets laid down by international creditors to receive funding
at three-monthly intervals at a time when the economy is in its
fifth year of recession and youth unemployment exceeds 50
percent. The outcome of elections in April or May could test
efforts to maintain austerity.  “The prospect of a general election and uncertainty over
the composition and commitment of a new government” to the
rescue program “also poses a significant risk,” Fitch said.
“Nonetheless, the sustainability of the public finances and
ultimately Greece’s membership of the  euro zone  depends upon the
implementation and effectiveness of structural and fiscal
reforms.”  The swap leaves Greece on track to shrink its debt to 117
percent of gross domestic product by 2020, creating a buffer as
the country strives to meet its commitments,  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the euro region’s group of finance
ministers, said yesterday. Greece’s future in the euro area is
assured “whatever will happen,” he said.  While a debt-to-GDP ratio of about 120 percent by 2020 is
achievable, “this outcome is very sensitive to assumptions
regarding the implementation of fiscal austerity and economic
growth,” Fitch said. “The current government has completed a
long list of ‘prior actions’. However, their implementation is
likely to prove very challenging for any administration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Fraher in  London  at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  