-- Greece Pays Coupons on Italian-Law International Bonds
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-03-13T16:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/greece-says-it-paid-interest-due-on-1999-italian-law-international-bonds.html
Greece , which last week carried out
the biggest sovereign debt restructuring, said it paid the
interest due on one of its international bonds yesterday.  The nation has 183 million euros ($240 million) of 5
percent bonds due March 2019 outstanding, that were issued in
1999 and pay interest on March 11. The payment date for the 9.1
million euros of interest fell on a Sunday, so the coupons were
paid “the next good business day,”  Petros Christodoulou ,
director general of the Athens-based Greek Debt Management
Office, said in an e-mailed statement.  Greece last week used collective action clauses to ensure
holders of 197 billion euros, or 95.7 percent, of bonds in the
exchange agreed to swap their securities for new notes. About 9
billion euros of bonds issued under laws other than Greek are
still outstanding, the  finance ministry  in Athens  said  March 9.  “The point of all this was to avoid a disorderly
default,” said Andreas Koutras, an analyst at ITC Markets in
London. “The Greek law bonds were dealt with last week but the
foreign bonds haven’t been exchanged yet, so the coupons still
have to be paid.”  The notes were marketed to Italian savers and the banks
that managed the sale included  Banca Profilo SpA (PRO)  in Milan and
Banca di Roma SpA, now part of  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  The final terms of
the issue, available on Bloomberg, are in Italian and show that
the notes are governed by Italian law.  Meetings for holders of foreign-law bonds will be held at
the end of this month and the transactions are due to settle on
April 11.  “Continuing servicing the Greek debt should be expected,”
said Athanasios Vamvakidis, a strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in London.  The new Greek  government bonds  maturing in 2023 declined
today, pushing the yield up 70 basis points, or 0.7 percentage
point, to 19.15 percent. The bid price on the securities dropped
1.335 to 26.5 percent of face value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  