-- Gucci Infringement Trial Against Guess? Set for March 26
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-03-13T23:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/gucci-infringement-trial-against-guess-set-for-march-26-1-.html
Gucci America Inc. (GES) , the maker of
luxury clothing and accessories, will try to convince a federal
judge this month that  Guess? Inc. (GES) ’s products infringe Gucci
trademarked designs.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin said at a hearing in
 Manhattan  today that she will conduct a trial without a jury
beginning March 26. Lawyers involved in the case said the trial
will last at least two weeks.  Gucci, a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , sued Guess in 2009,
accusing it of selling apparel and accessories in stores and
online with logos that are “studied imitations of the Gucci
trademarks.” The trademarks include a green- and red-stripe
design and a diamond pattern with repeating interlocking G’s.  “In many instances, defendants have replicated entire
Gucci product designs,” the company said in its complaint. It
sought an injunction preventing Guess from selling any products
with those designs.  Guess said in court papers that Gucci has no right to claim
infringement because the trademarks in question are merely
functional features of product logos. Guess also argued in court
filings that Gucci “sat on its rights” for at least seven
years before filing the lawsuit and that Gucci’s surveys failed
to prove consumers would be confused by the designs.  ‘Post-Sale Confusion’  “Gucci has no evidence showing the Guess designs at issue
are likely to cause post-sale confusion,” Guess said in a
filing in December.  Guess, based in  Los Angeles , had asked the judge to dismiss
Gucci’s claims without a trial. Scheindlin denied Guess’s
request in February.  Gucci is seeking monetary damages and other assessments
totaling more than $124 million, according to court papers.  The defendants also include Marc Fisher Footwear, the Max
Leather Group and Swank Inc.  The case is Gucci America v. Guess Inc., 09-4373, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  