-- Iceland Tightens Capital Controls for Failed Banks’ Creditors
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-03-13T09:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/iceland-tightens-capital-controls-for-failed-banks-creditors.html
Iceland’s parliament tightened
 capital controls  for creditors of  Kaupthing Bank hf ,  Glitnir
Bank hf  and  Landsbanki Islands hf  in an effort to maintain krona
stability as it emerges from its economic collapse.  The government introduced the bill last night and asked
lawmakers to pass before markets opened today. The legislation
is designed to better phase in the government’s multiyear plan
to remove controls propping up the krona.  The law prevents the liquidators of the three failed banks
from paying the lenders’ creditors in foreign currencies and
blocks the owners of Icelandic bonds from transferring annuity
and interest payments into other currencies and then transfer
payments out of the country.  The bill will allow the central bank “to impose rules that
would allow payments to creditors that conform with stability,”
 according to the bill  posted on the Reykjavik-based parliament’s
website. “In addition to preventing the possible instability in
the foreign-exchange market, the changes to the foreign-exchange
act proposed in the bill will level the position of parties in
regards to the capital controls and prevent unnatural profits”
gained by circumventing the law.  Iceland was forced to introduce capital controls and seek a
$4.6 billion bailout from the  International Monetary Fund  in
2008 after its biggest banks defaulted on $85 billion in debt,
sending the krona plunging as much as 80 percent against the
euro and driving the economy into a recession. The country ended
a 33-month program with the IMF in August.  Iceland’s $13 billion economy, which shrank 6.7 percent in
2009, grew 2.9 percent last year and will expand 2.4 percent
this year and next, the Paris-based  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  