-- Tiger Woods Says Achilles Strain Mild, Targets Masters Tune-Up
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/tiger-woods-says-his-achilles-strain-is-mild-targets-masters-golf-tune-up.html
Tiger Woods said he may recover
from a mild left Achilles tendon strain in time to play in next
week’s  Arnold Palmer Invitational , his last scheduled event
before the  Masters Tournament .  Woods’s status for the first major championship of the golf
season is in question after he withdrew from the Cadillac
Championship in Miami two days ago because of tightness in his
left Achilles.  Woods said last night on his  Twitter account  that he got
“good news” from his doctor, who diagnosed a mild strain.  “Can resume hitting balls late in week and hopeful for
next week,” Woods wrote on Twitter.  The Arnold Palmer Invitational at Bay Hill Club & Lodge in
 Orlando ,  Florida , begins  March 22 , two weeks before the April 5
start of the  Masters  in Augusta,  Georgia .  Woods, 36, strained his left knee and Achilles during last
year’s Masters, an injury that forced him to miss the U.S. Open
and  British Open . When tightness in his Achilles got
progressively worse during the final round of the World Golf
Championships event on March 11, Woods withdrew after hitting
his tee shot on the 12th hole.  “In the past, I may have tried to continue to play,”
Woods, who was playing in his third straight U.S. PGA Tour
event, said in a statement afterwards. “This time I decided to
do what I thought was necessary.”  Masters Odds  Woods was listed last week as a 5-1 favorite by the Las
Vegas Hotel & Casino’s sportsbook to claim his fifth Masters
title. His odds lengthened to 8-1 after the injury and were
changed to 7-1 yesterday, making him the second-favorite after
 Rory McIlroy , who’s No. 1 in the  Official World Golf Ranking .  Woods, whose 14 major titles trail only Jack Nicklaus’s 18,
won the most recent of his 71 PGA Tour events in September 2009.
That victory came two months before a one-vehicle accident near
his former Florida home led to revelations of extramarital
affairs and the end of his marriage.  He took a break of almost three months last season
following the Masters, where he tied for fourth place. After
sitting out the next two major championships, Woods missed the
cut for weekend play at the  PGA Championship .  Woods won a limited-field tournament he hosts in  California 
in December, his lone stroke-play victory over the past two
years. Before pulling out of the WGC event in Miami, Woods had
tied for second place at the Honda Classic in  Palm Beach
Gardens , Florida, after shooting a final-round 62.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  