-- India SUV Boom Threatened as Government Mulls Diesel Tax
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-03-13T23:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/india-suv-boom-threatened-as-government-mulls-diesel-tax.html
Diesel cars have become so popular
in  India  that people are willing to do almost anything to get 
one.  A woman sent  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  Vice Chairman  Anand Mahindra  an e-mail last month, begging to let her dying father
cut the front of the line for the sold-out XUV500, Mahindra’s
latest luxury SUV. Mayank Pareek, head of sales at top Indian
carmaker  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , says hardly a day goes by
without him getting asked to pull similar strings for the diesel
variants of the Swift hatchback or Dzire sedan.  Diesel-powered cars have led  Indian auto sales  to record
highs for two straight months as gasoline has become as much as
60 percent more expensive in  Asia ’s third-largest auto market.
That dynamic may soon change if the government imposes taxes on
diesel when it announces its fiscal budget on March 16.  If the taxes are high enough, “it will hit demand very
hard,” said  Deepesh Rathore , the  New Delhi  based managing
director at research firm IHS Automotive in India.  Fueling speculation of a diesel tax has been a steady
stream of comments from Indian leaders pointing in that
direction. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said late last year
that India should phase out fuel subsidies and Finance Minister
 Pranab Mukherjee  told Parliament in August the government was
looking at ways of reducing the subsidy on diesel.  There is a “high” probability the government will
disclose duties on diesel vehicles when the budget is announced,
Ambrish Mishra and Navin Matta, analysts at  Daiwa Securities
Group Inc. (8601) , wrote in a Feb. 28 report.  ‘No Clue’  While demand for diesel vehicles would probably withstand
extra taxes of 6 percent, going beyond that would drive away
consumers and a 16 percent tax would “entirely wipe out”
diesel’s advantage, the Daiwa analysts wrote.  Not everyone worries that diesel cars may lose their edge.  “No one has a clue on what the government is thinking,”
said Joseph George, an analyst at IIFL.  India’s fuel pricing policy has made gasoline 60 percent
more expensive than diesel, compared with 28 percent in June
2010, when the government lifted price controls on gasoline. The
government continues to subsidize diesel, which is used by
freight companies and accounts for a higher weight in India’s
inflation index.  The imbalance has led April-to-February sales of diesel
cars in India to rise more than 20 percent from a year earlier,
while deliveries of gasoline vehicles declined about 15 percent,
according to Umesh Karne, an analyst with Brics Securities Ltd.
in Mumbai.  Waiting Lists  The waiting list for Maruti Suzuki’s diesel models are as
long as seven months, Pareek at Maruti Suzuki said.  Among the biggest beneficiaries are sport-utility and
cross-over utility vehicles, which in India are predominantly
equipped with  diesel engines . Sales in the category climbed 15
percent to 326,824 units in the first 11 months of the fiscal
year ending March, led by Mahindra, the nation’s top maker of
sport-utility vehicles, according to the  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers .  By comparison, deliveries of passenger cars excluding SUVs
gained 0.3 percent, mainly because of dwindling demand for
automobiles that run on gasoline, according to SIAM.  Gasoline-powered cars may not recoup the sales they ceded
even if the government makes diesel less appealing.  “When a buyer moves to a utility vehicle from a sedan, he
normally doesn’t go back,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst
with Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd. “Buyers of utility
vehicles will have no choice but to pay if the government
decides to impose a higher tax on diesel.”  Safety Perception  SUVs are particularly popular in India because they are
perceived as being safer and more versatile on the nation’s
unkept roads, IHS Automotive’s Rathore said.  “Until now, there wasn’t really any choice apart from the
Tata Safari,” he said. “Now there’s more choice and that is
driving demand. It also helps that they are diesel, but the
primary reason remains the fact that there’s so much choice in
the market.”  For now, companies such as Mahindra are in the driver’s
seat. The company’s vice chairman said he recently realized to
what lengths people will go to get a Mahindra SUV when he
received the e-mail on behalf of a customer’s dying parent.  “My father is suffering from cancer,” according to a copy
of the e-mail provided by the company. “As a special case I
would request you to consider his application out of turn for
assured delivery.”  The company said it granted the man priority over more than
25,000 applicants to buy the latest XUV500 after the verifying
medical records attached in the e-mail and visiting the family.
The sender of the e-mail didn’t respond to Bloomberg queries
seeking comment.  “I was shocked when I saw the e-mail,” Mahindra said.
“We were overwhelmed by the bookings for the XUV500. People
asked us if we purposely planned to keep the production low to
create a buzz about it. We seriously had no idea it would be
this popular.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  