-- Indonesia Palm-Oil Duties Hurt Malaysia Refiners, Oil World Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-13T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/indonesia-palm-oil-duties-hurt-malaysia-refiners-oil-world-says.html
Indonesia’s policy to boost
shipments of processed palm oil by charging lower export duties
than on crude palm oil is hurting margins for refiners in
 Malaysia , Oil World said.  The differential export-tax rate has given Indonesian
processors a competitive advantage against Malaysian palm-oil
refiners, the oilseed researcher said today in a report.  Indonesia has cut maximum export duties on processed  palm
oil  to 13 percent from 25 percent, while the top rate for crude
palm oil was set at 22.5 percent, Hamburg-based Oil World said.
Indonesian exports of processed palm oil surged 29 percent in
2011’s fourth quarter to 2.9 million metric tons as crude-oil
shipments slid 23 percent to 2.28 million tons, it said.  “The Malaysian palm-oil processing industry is in jeopardy
unless the government changes the framework of the differential
export taxes on crude and processed palm oils similar to those
in  Indonesia ,” Oil World said.  Indonesia’s export-tax policy raised processing margins in
the country and prompted a “rapid” increase in refining
capacity, while Malaysian capacity utilization has declined,
according to Oil World.  Malaysia in February announced a quota for duty-free
exports of 3.6 million tons of crude palm oil, aiding plantation
owners, and may be under pressure to allow further untaxed
shipments, the oilseed researcher said.  Margin Pressure  “This is not a solution in the long term,” Oil World
said. “The major problem lies in the squeeze on processing
margins of the refining industry.”  Duty-free exports of crude palm oil make Malaysia’s
domestic refiners even worse off, and refining margins in the
country turned negative in recent weeks, the report showed.  “Particularly the standalone refiners are in a very
critical situation, while those refineries integrated into a
plantation can survive owing to the profits made from the
production of crude palm oil,” the researcher said.  Processed oil accounted for a record 56 percent of
Indonesia’s total palm-oil exports from October through
December, compared with 43 percent a year earlier and 41 percent
in the fourth quarter of 2010, Oil World said.  “It is obviously the ultimate goal of the Indonesian
government to process domestically a much larger portion of the
country’s crude palm oil production by setting this differential
export-duty regime,” it said.  Refiners in  India  and  China  also face slipping margins as a
result of Indonesia’s policy on taxing exports of processed palm
oil, according to the researcher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  