-- Intel Seeking Media Rights to Start Online Pay-TV System
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/intel-said-to-seek-programming-rights-to-start-online-television-service.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest
chipmaker, is considering creating an online pay-television
service that works on TV sets, computers and mobile devices,
according to three people with knowledge of the plans.  Intel reached out to media companies and cable channels
about getting the rights to broadcast shows, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the discussions aren’t public.
Intel would sell a Web-connected set-top box capable of
streaming TV and video-on-demand programming, the Wall Street
Journal  reported  yesterday.  As proposed, the plan would let consumers get their shows
on any Internet-connected device without subscribing to
traditional cable and satellite TV services. The offering would
mark the first new full-service pay-TV system since  AT&T Inc. (T) 
and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  expanded into the market.  Intel’s inquiries are at an early stage, and it’s uncertain
whether the company will gain the rights needed for the proposed
service, the people familiar with the matter said.  Kathy Gill, a spokeswoman for  Santa Clara , California-based
Intel, declined to comment.  By seeking TV rights, Intel would be embarking on a
difficult path for Silicon Valley companies.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  hasn’t
attracted a wide following for its Apple TV set-top box and
considers the product a “hobby.”  Google Inc. (GOOG) , meanwhile, has
struggled to get broadcast networks to provide content for its
TV service.  BBC Executive  Intel hired former British Broadcasting Corp. executive
Erik Huggers in January 2011 to lead its attempts to break into
the home-entertainment field. The company’s interest in
television is part of a strategy to expand beyond the personal-
computer market -- Intel’s main source of revenue. Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  is trying to encourage the use
of Intel processors in a variety of devices, including
automobiles and mobile phones.  While Google TV relies on Intel processors, the platform
hasn’t met sales projections, limiting the chipmaker’s inroads
into the market. Intel also supplies set-top processors to
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable company, in a deal
announced last June. In January 2011, Comcast acquired control
of  NBC Universal , whose properties include the NBC broadcast
network, the USA cable channel and  Universal Studios .  Intel shares fell less than 1 percent to $26.99 yesterday.
The  stock  has climbed 11 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  