-- Iran Oil Power Declining as Explorers Increase Spending: Energy
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a ,   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-03-13T17:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/iran-power-declining-in-oil-market-as-explorers-spend-90-billion-energy.html
The Iran-driven run in  oil prices 
to the highest since 2008 masks the Middle East producer’s
diminishing importance to global oil supplies as record spending
on drilling unearths reserves from  Argentina  to Angola.  New fields will ease pressure on prices, according to the
Centre for Global Energy Studies. Futures show investors expect
benchmark Brent crude to drop to less than $100 a barrel in 2015
from $125 today. Global exploration spending, led by  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , will jump 20 percent this year
to at least $90 billion, Barclays Plc research shows.  Offshore drilling may unlock about 25 billion barrels of
oil this year, more than four times Norway’s remaining reserves,
according to Morgan Stanley. In addition, there are so-called
unconventional fields in the U.S., where oil production from
North Dakota’s shale rose 75 percent last year, and Argentina,
home to a field found by  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  that may hold about 23
billion barrels.  “The price of oil has to come down because supply
prospects are so positive,” said Manouchehr Takin, an analyst
at the Centre for Global Energy Studies in  London . “The rate 
of demand isn’t going to grow as in the past as we use 
resources more efficiently.”  The  International Energy Forum , consisting of a group of
nations that account for more than 90 percent of global oil and
gas supply and demand, gathers today in Kuwait as pressure
builds on Iran from U.S., the European Union and Israel to end
its nuclear research program. The forum was founded in 1991 to
discuss international  energy security .  Largest Consumer  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi and U.S. Deputy
Energy Secretary Daniel Poneman, representing the world’s
biggest crude exporter and the largest consumer, are joining
ministers from more than 70 countries to discuss how to meet
future energy demand and mitigate price volatility. Executives
will attend from companies including Exxon, Shell and  Total SA. (FP)   “Even now the market is well-supplied,” Aldo Flores- Quiroga, the IEF’s secretary-general, said in an interview in
Kuwait yesterday. “New fields are being discovered. There are
new areas where sources are being developed. The sources of
supply are spreading and this will change the politics of oil.”  Concern that a strike against Iran will start a Middle East
war has driven oil prices higher and exploration can’t do much
to mitigate that in the short term, said Colin Lothian,
corporate strategy analyst at  Wood Mackenzie  Consultants Ltd.
The European Union will stop buying any Iranian oil from July 1.  OPEC Pumping  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
supplies 40 percent of the world’s oil, is pumping the most in
three years and crude surpassed $120 a barrel on Feb. 20 for the
first time since May. The average price of OPEC’s  main  crude
grades has surpassed $120 a barrel since Feb. 22, the longest
stretch since 2008.  “It takes four to eight years from exploration to bringing
supply on the market, so new discoveries won’t have a material
impact on supply for a few years,” Lothian said in an
interview. “Concerns in the market are different, about
potential disruption in supply.”  Still, the underlying supply and demand picture may be more
balanced. OPEC cut its global oil demand forecast for 2012 on
March 9 by 130,000 barrels a day to 88.63 million on moderating
prospects for global growth.  The forward curve for  Brent crude , the benchmark for two-
thirds of the world, shows prices dropping to $112 by the end of
next year and to about $95 in December 2016.  Brent crude for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was up 97 cents, or 0.8 percent, at
$126.31 as of 5:20 p.m. local time.  Less Important  Iran is becoming a less important global supplier. The
second-largest OPEC producer will see its share of oil
production slip from 4.9 percent in 2010 to 4.5 percent in 2015,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  Spending on oil and gas exploration rose to a record $72
billion last year, according to Wood Mackenzie, as drillers look
to replace aging fields with finds in countries with little or
no history of oil production.  “We are seeing a wave of new exploration activity,” said
Robin Batchelor, the manager of Blackrock Inc.’s $4.5 billion
World Energy Fund. “The majors are beginning to increase their
exploration budgets and have become more interested in some of
these frontier plays.”  Shell, based in The Hague, is increasing spending on
exploration 35 percent to about $5 billion this year. London-
based  BP Plc (BP/)  is doubling exploration drilling this year and is
stepping up spending on projects in Angola, the North Sea and
the  Gulf of Mexico .  Exxon Expects  Exxon expects to start up nine major projects this year and
next and anticipates adding the equivalent of more than 1
million net barrels a day by 2016. The company’s 2012
exploration portfolio includes projects in Tanzania, Guyana and
Ireland, according to a March 8 investor presentation.  Smaller explorers are making important discoveries also.
 Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  last year discovered oil in  French Guiana  that
may double its $4.4 billion economy. Cobalt International Energy
Inc., backed by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., last month confirmed a
1,180-foot column of oil in waters off Angola.  The U.S. may surpass Russia as the world’s largest energy
producer in the next 10 years as output of natural gas and crude
from shale rock formations climbs, Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s  Mark Kiesel  said last month.  China , the world’s biggest energy consumer, is estimated to
have more gas trapped in shale than the U.S. and plans a second
auction of shale exploration areas as it seeks to triple its use
of gas to 10 percent by 2020.  “The world has become a very exciting place for energy and
there are possibilities everywhere,” B.C. Tripathi, chairman of
 GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , the country’s biggest natural-gas distributor,
said in a telephone interview on March 7. “Our options to get
oil and gas now range from America to  Australia .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  