-- ISE Options Exchange May Open New Venue With Trading Floor
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-03-13T17:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/ise-options-exchange-may-open-second-venue-with-trading-floor.html
The  International Securities
Exchange  may introduce a second platform for U.S. equity
options, opening what may be the nation’s 10th venue for the
contracts, according to Chief Executive Officer Gary Katz.  Should the New York-based market start a second venue, it
may have a trading floor, Katz said during an interview in  Boca
Raton ,  Florida , at the Futures Industry Association conference.
ISE was the first all-electronic U.S. options exchange when it
began in May 2000. The company, owned by Frankfurt-based
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s Eurex subsidiary, shelved plans for a
second venue when the German exchange announced its takeover of
New York-based NYSE Euronext.  “We put it on the back burner as a result of the merger,”
Katz said, referring to plans for a second market.  Deutsche
Boerse ’s takeover of  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , owner of the  New York  Stock
Exchange, was blocked by European antitrust regulators last
month. “Now that the merger is behind us, we’re putting it back
on the front burner. We’re fully focused on what that market
model should look like and what innovation we can bring to that
model. All the original goals are back as strong as ever.”  There are currently nine U.S. options exchanges, which
compete by offering different rules and pricing to attract
specific traders. Miami International Holdings Inc. plans to
start an equity derivatives market this year, Shelly Brown, the
Princeton, New Jersey-based company’s senior vice president for
strategic planning and operations, said in September.  Attracting Order Flow  “We don’t want to simply look at another maker-taker or
another pro-rata model,” Katz said, referring to different
types of rules for matching orders on options exchanges. “We
want to look at ways to attract order flow by combining market
structures and pricing structures.”  ISE is the only major U.S. options market operator with a
single venue.  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  in  Chicago  and Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. and NYSE Euronext in New York each run two exchanges that
trade options. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange , which has a
trading floor, is the largest, with 27.7 percent of volume,
according to Chicago-based OCC. The organization clears and
settles equity derivatives contracts.  Nasdaq OMX PHLX, which also runs a so-called open-outcry
floor, is the second-largest, with 20.5 percent of U.S. options
volume, data compiled by OCC show. The ISE has 15.3 percent.  Opportunity to Compete  “There are certain types of trades done on floors today
that ISE doesn’t compete in,” Katz said. “If there’s
opportunity to compete for that volume I’d be very interested in
doing that.” He added that any floor the ISE may create
wouldn’t look like existing open-outcry trading pits. “It has
to be a floor for the 21st century,” he said. “What that would
look like and how it would compete is something I’d open to.”  There’s no time frame for the introduction of a second
market, Katz said. The exchange owns 31.5 percent of Direct Edge
Holdings LLC, a U.S. stock exchange operator in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey , and has no plans to open an equities market of its own,
he said. A futures exchange remains a possibility, he said.  “If the right model were presented, we would consider
it,” Katz said. “History has shown it’s a very challenging
business to get into. I’d have to look at a business model very,
very carefully before choosing to go into that segment of the
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 