-- Israel Reaches Gaza Truce to Halt Four Days of Violence
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 2012-03-13T18:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/israel-reachs-truce-with-palestinians-to-halt-four-days-of-gaza-violence.html
Israel  and the Palestinians have
reached an understanding to end the latest round of fighting in
Gaza after Israeli air strikes killed at least 24 people and
militants fired about 200 rockets from the coastal enclave,
wounding four.  “There are understandings, not written agreements,”
Israeli Minister of Home Front Defense Matan Vilnai told Israel
Radio today. “There are basically understandings between
different bodies on what is OK to do, and is not OK to do.”  A spokesman for the Islamic Jihad militant group, Dawood
Shihab, said in a press statement that the two sides reached a
truce after Egyptian mediation that took effect before dawn
today. Three rockets fired from Gaza struck Israel following the
truce deadline. There were no Israeli strikes overnight, the
army said.  This month’s bloodshed began with a March 9 Israeli air
strike on what the army said were two militants planning an
attack from the Egyptian-controlled Sinai, including Zuhir al-
Qaisi, head of the Popular Resistance Committees. The rocket
attacks and air strikes that followed have been the worst since
August, when eight Israelis were killed in an attack near the
resort of Eilat and at least 24 Palestinians died in subsequent
air raids.  Egyptian Mediation  “The understanding in Gaza is that the Egyptians have
brokered a mutual cease-fire,” said Mukhemer Abu Sada, a
political scientist at Al-Azhar University in Gaza City. “We
will see in the next few days whether this is true or not.”  Israeli officials would not explicitly acknowledge any
formal agreement with the Gaza groups, following an official
policy that it doesn’t negotiate with those it defines as
terrorist organizations.  “Our message is clear: quiet will bring quiet,” Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said today at a government
convention in Jerusalem. “Whoever violates it or even tries to
violate it - we will find him.”  Gaza Militias  Pressure on militia groups in Gaza from Hamas, the Islamic
movement that rules the Palestinian coastal territory, was a key
factor in reaching a truce, according to Abu Sada. “Hamas does
not want to be provoked into a war with Israel that could
endanger its rule of Gaza, and its very existence,” he said.  Israel said it holds Hamas responsible for all attacks
emanating from the territory. Hamas, which has ruled Gaza since
2007, is considered a terrorist group by the U.S., Israel and
the European Union. It seized full control of the territory in
2007, ousting forces loyal to Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  after winning parliamentary elections a year
earlier.  Peace negotiations between Israel and Abbas’s Palestinian
Authority fell apart in September 2010 when Netanyahu refused to
extend a 10-month building freeze in West Bank settlements and
Abbas said he wouldn’t negotiate unless all construction
stopped.  In 2008, Israel sent troops into Gaza during a three-week
operation aimed at stopping rocket fire, in which at least 1,100
Palestinians and 12 Israelis were killed.  Iron Dome  Israel’s Iron Dome anti-missile system successfully
intercepted 56 rockets from Gaza, most of them aimed at Israel’s
two largest southern cities, Ashdod and Beersheba, the army
said.  “It was largely thanks to Iron Dome there were no Israeli
fatalities,” said  Gerald Steinberg , political scientist at Bar-
Ilan University outside  Tel Aviv . “If there had been, the
public pressure for an Israeli ground operation would have been
much greater.”  Many of those killed in Gaza were members of Islamic Jihad,
a small militant group supported by  Iran , and considered a
terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and European Union.
The violence erupted last week just days after Netanyahu
returned from a trip to the U.S., where he discussed the Iranian
nuclear program with President  Barack Obama  and said Israel must
be free to protect itself from any threat “by itself.”  The  TA-25 benchmark stock index  closed up 0.7 percent in
Tel Aviv after yesterday dropping 1.1 percent, the most in
almost one week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net 
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  