-- Gerrard’s Hat Trick Lifts Liverpool to 3-0 Win Against Everton
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-14T00:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/liverpool-defeats-everton-3-0-to-end-premier-league-losing-run.html
Steven Gerrard  scored the first
Merseyside derby hat trick in 30 years as Liverpool beat Everton
3-0 to end a three-game losing run in soccer’s Premier League.  Gerrard, making his 400th league appearance, scored once in
the first half and added two goals after the break at Anfield
last night to get the first hat trick in the fixture since Ian Rush in 1982. It was Liverpool’s biggest home win against its
local rival since Nov. 6, 1983, when it also won 3-0.  “To beat Everton is always special, so to get three goals
is a little bit extra,” Liverpool captain Gerrard told  Sky
Sports . “It was a great term performance, a clean sheet.
Everything we wanted from the game we got it.”  Liverpool stays seventh in the standings with 42 points, 10
behind fourth-place Arsenal in the race for the final Champions
League spot with 10 matches remaining. A win for Everton last
night would have taken it above Liverpool, which had lost to
 Manchester United , Arsenal and Sunderland in its three previous
league games.  Gerrard opened the scoring in the 34th minute when he
lifted a left-foot shot from the edge of the penalty area over
Everton goalkeeper  Tim Howard  and a crowd of defenders.  Liverpool went 2-0 up six minutes after halftime when  Luis Suarez  weaved his way into the Everton penalty area before
leaving the ball for Gerrard to thump a shot high into the net.  Suarez and Gerrard combined on the counterattack to
complete the scoring in stoppage time. Gerrard released the
Uruguayan striker into space before receiving the ball back and
firing a first-time shot into the net.  Passes Fowler  Gerrard’s haul lifted his goal tally in Premier League
matches between the Merseyside rivals to seven, taking him one
past Robbie Fowler’s record of six.  Both teams play F.A. Cup quarterfinals in their next game.
Everton hosts Sunderland on March 17, a day before Liverpool
takes on  Stoke City  at Anfield.  “We’ve got a really difficult game coming up on Sunday so
we can enjoy this for a couple of days before looking forward,”
Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  said in comments on his team’s
website. “The season has not finished because we have won a
game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  