-- Jeremy Lin Said to Be in Talks to Endorse Volvo in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-13T03:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/jeremy-lin-said-to-be-in-talks-to-endorse-volvo-cars-in-china.html
Jeremy Lin, the New York Knicks
basketball player who surged in popularity this year, is in
talks on an endorsement deal with  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group
Co (GEELZ) .’s Volvo Cars, three people familiar with the matter said.  An agreement may be announced soon and would result in the
23-year-old former Harvard University player endorsing Volvo
cars in  China , two of the people said, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are private. The two sides
are in advanced negotiations after having reached a preliminary
agreement, they said.  Resale prices of Knicks games and television ratings have
surged after Lin came off the bench to lead his team to a seven-
game winning streak last month. The point guard, who was cut
twice by other teams, is the first Chinese- or Taiwanese
American to play in the  National Basketball Association  and was
on the cover of Sports Illustrated for two straight weeks.  Roger Montgomery , Lin’s agent, declined to answer
questions. Yang Xueliang, the spokesman at Zhejiang Geely, which
bought Volvo from Ford Motor Co. in 2010, didn’t answer calls to
his mobile phone.  For Lin, the talks may lead to one of his first endorsement
contracts since his rise to fame last month. The only
significant such deal he has is with  Nike Inc. (NKE) , signed when he
entered the NBA in 2010 with the  Golden State Warriors ,
Montgomery said in February.  Linsanity Following Yao  The 6-foot-3 guard, who ignited a fan frenzy dubbed
“Linsanity,” follows former  Houston Rockets ’ All-Star center
Yao Ming in drawing Chinese interest in the NBA. The 7-foot-6-
inch Yao, a Shanghai resident, signed sponsorship deals with
companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  McDonald’s Corp (MCD)  before he
retired last July. Sports Illustrated in June ranked him the
fifth-highest paid non-U.S. athlete in the world, with an
estimated annual income of $36 million.  Lin, who blogs in both mandarin and English on his Chinese
Twitter-style weibo, has 2.47 million followers on his
microblog.  Before signing with the Knicks in December, Lin appeared in
29 games -- none as a starter -- with Golden State, which
released him. He signed and was cut by the Houston Rockets and
played for the  Dallas Mavericks  on their 2010 summer league
team.  Volvo is betting Lin’s popularity may help the company make
further inroads in China, the carmaker’s fastest-growing market,
as it seeks to double sales to 800,000 vehicles in the 10 years
to 2020.  A group led by Zhejiang Geely bought Volvo from  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  for $1.8 billion in August 2010, completing the biggest
overseas acquisition by a Chinese carmaker. Volvo, which makes
the S40 sedan and XC90 sport-utility vehicle, sold 449,255 cars
last year. The company is looking to form an auto manufacturing
joint venture with Zhejiang Geely as part of initial plans to
open two carmaking factories and an engine plant in China.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  