-- Job-Creation Bill Seen Eviscerating U.S. Shareholder Protections
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/job-creation-legislation-seen-eviscerating-shareholder-protections-in-u-s-.html
U.S. legislation that would roll
back securities disclosure and governance rules in the name of
 job creation  is being attacked by consumer advocates and former
regulators as an evisceration of investor protections in place
since the 1930s.  The package of bills awaiting Senate action after receiving
broad bipartisan support in a House vote last week would destroy
safeguards dating as far back as the laws that created the
Securities and Exchange Commission, according to Lynn E. Turner,
a former SEC chief accountant.  “It won’t create jobs, but it will simplify fraud,”
Turner said in an interview last week. “This would be better
known as the bucket-shop and penny-stock fraud reauthorization
act of 2012,” he said, referring to practices banned under
 securities law .  The Republican-led House, in a show of election-year
comity, voted 390-23 to approve measures that would among other
things undo a ban on closely held firms soliciting investments,
increase the number of investors such firms can have and exempt
newly public companies with less than $1 billion in revenue from
some reporting requirements of the Dodd-Frank and Sarbanes-Oxley
laws. President  Barack Obama  has backed the legislation as a way
to help spur job creation, and Senate Democrats have said they
will move quickly on their own version.  “What we’re trying to do is to regain the confidence of
the people that sent us here,” House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, said after the March 8 vote.  Impeded Growth  Supporters including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and New
York-based exchange operators  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and NYSE
Euronext say the bill targets rules that have impeded economic
growth by making it harder for companies to raise capital or
conduct initial public offerings. That view has won support from
Democrats including Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York .  “I do think Congress has an ongoing obligation to ask
whether the policy framework for public offering is striking the
right balance between facilitating capital formation on the one
hand, and attempting to protect the investors on the other,”
Schumer said at a March 7 Senate hearing, citing a “drastic
decline” in the number of U.S. IPOs since the 1990s. “That’s
always a needle we have to thread.”  Opponents, including former SEC Chairman  Arthur Levitt  and
 Barbara Roper , director of investor protection for the Consumer
Federation of America, say the approach is wrong-headed because
it will hurt investors without achieving the stated goal.  “You don’t increase jobs growth by rolling back regulatory
protections, and it’s frankly bewildering that the Democrats
have been so willing to buy into the traditional Republican
argument,” Roper said in an interview.  ‘Sufficient Safeguards’  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  “believes that portions of the
legislation either unnecessarily eliminate important investor
protections or are not balanced with sufficient safeguards,”
 John Nester , an agency spokesman, said in a statement.  The SEC, which reviewed ideas similar to the legislative
proposals after Obama directed federal agencies to remove
impediments to business growth, will work with Congress try to
correct problems, including a provision that de-regulates
analyst research in a way that “could take us back to the
conflicted practices of the dot-com bubble,” Nester said in a
statement yesterday  The House bill includes a provision that would permit so-
called crowdfunding, allowing companies to raise capital by
soliciting and pooling investments online. An SEC small-business
advisory committee that reviewed some of the legislative ideas
rejected crowdfunding last month, saying it could foster fraud.  ‘Fundamental Reduction’  Another proposal -- giving companies with less than $1
billion in revenue an easier “on ramp” to SEC registration --
would represent a “fundamental reduction in the level of
transparency and regulation for companies going public,” said
Turner, who is managing director of Litinomics Inc., an economic
and legal consulting firm based in  Mountain View ,  California .  The so-called emerging growth companies taking advantage of
the on ramp would avoid audits of their financial condition for
up to five years and would file no more than two years of
audited financial statements in order to register.  “A billion dollars in gross revenue is nearly everybody,”
Roper said. “You’re talking about allowing most companies that
go public to go public without meeting these basic standards.”  ‘Nothing Magical’  Levitt, who ran the SEC from 1993 to 2001, said there is
“nothing magical” about the small and emerging companies that
have been the focus of bipartisan support for the legislation.  “Ninety percent of restatements are with these small
companies,” Levitt said March 8 in an interview with Ken
Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance.” “They’re the ones that need the protections of
internal audits.” said Levitt, who is a member of the board of
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  Representative John P. Sarbanes of  Maryland , one of 23
Democratic opponents in the House, warned colleagues in a letter
that the bill could lead to an “Enron-Type fraud,” invoking
the accounting scandal that led Congress to enact the law named
for his father, former SenatorPaul Sarbanes.  Senate Democrats, who have been meeting to craft their
version of the bill, have said they will address some of the
concerns raised by Levitt, Roper and others -- many of them
echoed by senior lawmakers such as Senators Jack Reed of Rhode
Island and  Carl Levin  of  Michigan .  Schumer, who has pushed a Senate version of the IPO on-ramp
measure, said his chamber’s version “will have more consumer
and investor protections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 