-- Fed Bond-Buying Seen Less Likely After Best Six-Month Job Gains Since 2006
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-03-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/job-gains-make-new-fed-bond-buying-unlikely-in-12-survey-shows.html
The best six months of job gains
since 2006 have helped reduce the odds of a third round of asset
purchases by the  Federal Reserve , according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  Sixty-one percent of respondents in a March 9-12 poll said
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will refrain from any action to expand
the Fed’s $2.89 trillion balance sheet this year. In January, 50
percent of those surveyed predicted more bond buying.  Bernanke, in Senate testimony before a March 9 jobs report,
gave no sign he’s considering a new program of so-called
quantitative easing. Still, he repeated that the main  interest
rate  is likely to stay near zero through at least late 2014 to
boost a job market that remains “far from normal.” The  Federal
Open Market Committee  plans to release a statement at about 2:15
p.m. today after its meeting in  Washington .  “They’ve seen a good bit of job growth and they weren’t
seeing that when they did QE1 and QE2,” said  Stuart Hoffman ,
chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh.
“Job gains will probably stay fast enough that the Fed will
feel the drop in the  unemployment rate  wasn’t a fluke,” he said.  None of the 49 economists in Bloomberg’s survey anticipate
that the Fed will announce new asset purchases today. In January,
14 percent predicted an announcement today.  Economists Split  If the Fed eventually eases further, economists are split
on whether it would purchase bonds while taking steps to ensure
such a move doesn’t increase inflation pressures. Thirty percent
of economists say the Fed would “sterilize” the impact of its
purchases by using repurchase agreements and term deposits to
prevent new money from entering the economy.  Vincent Reinhart , the chief U.S. economist at Morgan
Stanley and a former monetary economist at the Fed until 2007,
said the odds are even that the Fed will launch a new program of
asset purchases. The central bank would help gain public
acceptance of new bond-buying by blunting the probability such a
measure will speed up inflation, he said.  “They can say they’re trying to foster both parts of the
dual mandate by buying long-term and mortgage-backed securities
in support of the full-employment objective, but sterilizing the
effect on the balance sheet to preserve  price stability ,” he
said in a March 7 interview. “I find it pretty unlikely we’d
get this in March,” he said.  One-in-Four Odds  Reinhart sees a one-in-four chance the Fed will extend its
current “Operation Twist” program in which it buys longer-term
securities and sells a corresponding amount of short-term
securities, according to a March 5 research note. The Fed is
scheduled to complete the program in June.  The central bank is in no rush to tighten policy, even if
inflation breaches its 2 percent goal for price increases,
economists said in the survey.  Asked how much inflation the Fed would tolerate to bring
unemployment down from a level of 8 percent or more, 39 percent
of economists said the Fed would allow a 3 percent to 3.5
percent increase in the personal consumption expenditures index.
The jobless rate was 8.3 percent in February.  Another 31 percent of respondents looked for a 3.5 percent
to 4 percent rise, and 12 percent said prices would have to rise
more than 4 percent to prompt Fed action.  Prices increased 2.4 percent from a year earlier in January,
above policy makers’ 2 percent target announced at their Jan.
24-25 meeting. Excluding food and energy, prices rose 1.9
percent.  Higher Oil Prices  Rising  oil prices  will probably push up the index
temporarily, Bernanke said to lawmakers this month in his
semiannual monetary policy report to Congress. The national
average price for a gallon of  gasoline  was $3.80 on March 11,
according to the American Automobile Association.  Bernanke has previously advocated holding policy steady as
price shocks drove inflation higher. In September 2007, capacity
utilization rose to 81.3 percent, the highest since a recession
that ended in November 2001. Unemployment averaged 4.5 percent
in the first six months of the year. Inflation exceeded policy
makers’ implicit target, with the PCE  price index ’s annual rates
averaging 2.5 percent during the first six months.  Still, the FOMC left the benchmark lending rate at 5.25
percent until Sept. 18, 2007, when it cut the rate by half a
point as the financial crisis began to unfold.  “The higher gas prices go, the less the Fed is likely to
worry about inflation because it’s a damping effect on economic
activity,” said Donald Ellenberger, a portfolio manager at
Pittsburgh-based Federated Investors Inc. whose $791.2 million
U.S. Government Securities Fund for two- to five-year bonds has
outperformed 96 percent of rivals over the past five years.  Next Decade  Investors expect prices to rise 2.29 percent over the next
10 years, as measured by the spread between Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities and nominal bonds. That’s up from a 2011
low of 1.67 percent.  The expectation inflation will exceed 2 percent “doesn’t
suggest that the market is losing confidence in the Fed being
able to contain inflation,” Ellenberger said.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note has risen to 2.03
percent from 1.88 percent at the start of 2012. Low Treasury
yields have helped keep  mortgage-rates  near record lows. The
average 30-year mortgage in the U.S. was 3.88 percent on March 8,
according to a Freddie Mac index, compared to a record low of
3.87 reached last month.  Low mortgage rates are helping to boost expectations for
higher sales at home builders. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has risen 25 percent so far
this year, almost triple the 9 percent increase in the  S&P 500 .
Sentiment among builders in March rose to the highest level
since May 2007, according to a National Association of Home
Builders index.  “From a macroeconomic perspective, things definitely feel
better right now,”  Ara Hovnanian , chairman and president of
 Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the largest home builder in  New
Jersey , said in a March 7 earnings call. “There are more
positive trends than negative trends grabbing the headlines.
Mortgage rates remain low. The energy sector is booming. There
are fewer discussions about fears of a double-dip recession.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  