-- Johannesburg Listings on Hold as Companies See ANC Risks
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-14T15:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/johannesburg-listings-on-hold-as-companies-see-anc-policy-risk.html
New listings on the  Johannesburg
Stock Exchange  are drying up as companies weigh the possibility
of government takeovers and transaction tax changes deterring
investment, according to bourse operator  JSE Ltd. (JSE)   No new companies have listed shares this year after the
exchange recorded 16 in 2011, Chief Executive Officer Nicky Newton-King said in an interview yesterday. A total of 10
exchange-traded products have joined the bourse in 2012, in
addition to last year’s 14, she said.  Concern is growing that the ruling  African National
Congress  may move to nationalize companies this year, while new
transaction taxes will add to trading costs, Newton-King said.
The exchange reported a 12 percent jump in trading volumes
yesterday for the year through December, while earnings per
share minus one-time items rose 29 percent to 5.62 rand, below
the 5.64 rand  median estimate  of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “The reality is that while we are in a year of the ANC’s
policy conference and leadership elections, that does create an
environment which has heightened uncertainty,” Newton-King said
by phone in Johannesburg. “From a policy perspective, certainly
when we talk to potential issuers, they consider us relative to
other jurisdictions.”  ANC party members vote for a new leadership in December and
will discuss mine ownership at a party policy conference in
June, according to Enoch Godongwana, the head of the party’s
economic policy committee.  Broker Exemption  The push for a policy shift has been led by the ANC’s Youth
League, which wants the government to seize mines, banks and
land. Several senior government ministers have rejected
nationalization, and on Feb. 29 the ANC expelled the Youth
League’s leader,  Julius Malema , from its ranks. Malema said he
plans to appeal the expulsion while the league has vowed to push
nationalization without Malema.  The proposal to eliminate a rule that makes brokers exempt
from securities transaction taxes announced in  South Africa ’s
annual budget on Feb. 22 is under discussion with the National
Treasury, Newton-King said.  “Our conversations with Treasury are going well,” she
said. “We need to understand what their concerns are about how
people are currently accounting for their transactions.”  The JSE will sign cooperation agreements with other
exchange operators similar to those it has with  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
the Chicago-based derivatives exchange, and the London Stock
Exchange, rather than merging with or acquiring other bourses,
Newton-King said. Mauritius’ Financial Services Commission
blocked plans for the JSE to buy a 49 percent stake in the Stock
Exchange of Mauritius in 2009.  Move From London  Moving the JSE’s trading platform back to Johannesburg from
 London  in July will be positive for revenue as clients trade
faster and the bourse offers them information technology-related
services, Newton-King said.  The business was moved to the London Stock Exchange in 2002
as volumes exceeded the capacity of the Johannesburg exchange’s
system at the time.  The JSE plans to boost the contribution to earnings of
post-trade services from the current 10.5 percent, she said.  Shares of JSE Ltd. declined as much as 1.5 percent and
closed 1 percent lower at 78.70 rand in Johannesburg. The
benchmark  FTSE/JSE All Share Index (JALSH)  rose 0.7 percent to
34,426.74, a new closing record.  The 162-member South African index has gained 11 percent
over the past 12 months, outperforming a 4.3 percent decline in
the value of the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  South Africa’s
shares index trades for 12 times estimated earnings, compared
with 11 times for the emerging-markets index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  