-- JPMorgan Defies Banks as Fund Losers by Entering Top 10
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/jpmorgan-defies-banks-as-mutual-fund-losers-by-breaking-into-u-s-top-10.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is proving
that banks aren’t destined to be also-rans in the $12 trillion
mutual fund business.  The company in 2011 became the first bank to crack the list
of 10 largest U.S. stock and bond fund managers, according to
research firm Strategic Insight. Under global funds chief George Gatch, JPMorgan’s lineup posted higher net sales growth as a
percentage of assets than any other firm with at least $50
billion, even as the bank spurned the charge by investors into
 index funds  and posted middle-of-the-pack fund returns.  “Their performance as an asset gatherer has been
phenomenal,”  Geoff Bobroff , a mutual fund consultant in  East
Greenwich , Rhode Island, said in a telephone interview. “Their
fund performance isn’t one to gather a lot of attention, but
they’re solid from a business standpoint.”  While rival banks sought to sell asset management units
following the financial crisis, JPMorgan escaped relatively
unscathed, allowing it to spend on the unit and lift long-term
fund assets by 160 percent since 2008. The largest U.S. bank by
assets succeeded in part by courting financial advisers to
complement its in-house sales force and by offering hedge-fund-
like products that have become more popular as investors flee
traditional stock funds.  Funds owned by banks, brokerages and insurers have lost
ground over the past decade to pure money managers such as
Vanguard Group Inc. and  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)   The  asset management  unit, which also includes money funds
and separate accounts for institutions and wealthy investors,
produced 11 percent of JPMorgan’s $21.5 billion in fourth-
quarter revenue and 8.1 percent of its profit.  ‘Avenue of Growth’  “It’s still a relatively small piece in terms of its total
contribution to earnings, but it’s an avenue of growth at a time
when growth in traditional banking has been constricted,” said
Shannon Stemm, an analyst at Edward D. Jones & Co. in  St. Louis .  Net deposits of $17.9 billion in 2011 were the third-
highest dollar amount in the industry, trailing only those of
Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based Vanguard and Pacific Investment
Management Co. in Newport Beach, California, according to data
compiled by Morningstar Inc. As JPMorgan’s long-term fund assets
grew to $139 billion, the firm climbed four spots on the
research company’s list, leapfrogging rivals including 10th-
ranked OppenheimerFunds Inc.  “We want to remain in the top five in net flows every year
for the foreseeable future,” Gatch said in an interview at his
 New York  office. “If we do that, we’re well-positioned as the
markets normalize.”  Vanguard, with $1.31 trillion in stock and bond mutual
funds as of Dec. 31, is the biggest manager, followed by Los
Angeles-based Capital Group Cos.’ American Funds, Boston’s
Fidelity Investments and Pimco. The data exclude  money market
funds .  Ignoring Indexing  JPMorgan’s success has come through a mix of old and new
strategies.  Gatch, 49, who joined the firm in 1986 and took over the
mutual funds business in 2001, has driven growth in part through
an internal sales force of financial advisers who can sell the
firm’s funds as well as those of rivals, a fading approach that
some observers say creates a conflict of interest. He’s also
pouring resources into capturing business from independent
registered investment advisers, or RIAs, the fastest-growing
competitor to traditional brokers.  Gatch has done it almost exclusively with actively run
funds, another anachronism. U.S. investors pumped 2 1/2 times as
much money into index-tracking funds, including exchange-traded
products, in the past five years as they did into those whose
managers pick securities. That leaves JPMorgan winning more
business in a shrinking portion of the funds industry.  ‘Imaginative’ and ‘Aggressive’  At the same time, the bank has been innovative in designing
funds that bring institutional-style investing options to
individual customers.  In 2005, it opened  JPMorgan U.S. Large Cap Core Plus (JLPSX) , a so-
called 130/30 fund designed to bet on stocks rising and
declining, and JPMorgan Tax Aware Real Return, which combines
inflation and tax protection. The firm’s go-anywhere absolute-
return bond fund,  JPMorgan Strategic Income Opportunities Fund (JSOAX) ,
was started in October 2008 and has $13 billion in assets. The
$2.45 billion Highbridge Dynamic Commodities Strategy, a fund
that can wager on or against commodity-linked securities, began
in January 2010.  “On the whole, they’ve had good performance, they’ve been
imaginative in the funds they’ve opened and been very aggressive
in marketing them,” Burton Greenwald, a mutual fund consultant
in Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview.  In the wake of the global financial crisis, rivals
including  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  cut jobs and
sold off units to raise capital, leaving JPMorgan the biggest
bank by assets by the end of last year’s third quarter.  Marketing Push  Its relative good health has allowed the firm to commit
more resources to asset management. Spending on sales and
marketing will rise 10 percent this year compared with 2011,
according to Gatch and his institutional counterpart, Michael
O’Brien. They declined to disclose dollar figures.  In addition to its stock and bond mutual funds, JPMorgan
managed $293 billion for institutions as of Dec. 31, up 15
percent in two years. The company also runs money market funds
and institutional cash products holding about $456 billion.  Gatch casts the rise of JPMorgan funds as a turnaround that
began soon after the bank’s 2006 purchase of Bank One Corp. The
deal led to the largest merger of mutual fund companies to that
point, he said.  “The two bank fund families were muddling along,” Gatch
said. “We changed our expectations and objectives.”  Emphasis on Research  The combined lineup was trimmed almost immediately by 14
percent, to 122 funds. Sales teams were rebuilt and refocused on
backing up products with market analysis and investing guidance.  “We were trying to train people in things that weren’t our
expertise, like practice management and estate planning,” Gatch
said.  JPMorgan is appealing to RIAs by establishing a reputation
for putting research first and the hard-sell second.  In 2008, the bank hired David Kelly as chief market
strategist and started his “Dr. Kelly” series of online audio
and video reports. Kelly, who has a Ph.D. in economics from
Michigan State University, held an Aug. 8 conference call for
advisers on  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of U.S. debt that
attracted 7,900 participants. The firm also stages invitation-
only seminars for financial advisers in which strategists,
portfolio managers and analysts make presentations and answer
questions.  “They realized that top RIAs want to be treated like
institutional clients,” said Donald Phillips, managing director
of Chicago-based Morningstar. “They want information and
commentary. They don’t want sales pitches.”  Independent Advisory Channel  Deposits through RIAs grew by 30 percent last year, said
Kristen Chambers, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, who declined to
disclose the dollar volume.  The rise of the RIA has accompanied a decline among
brokerages. The amount of money fee-only RIAs in the U.S.
oversee increased by 25 percent to $1.3 trillion in the three
years through 2010, the latest year for which data were
available, according to Cerulli Associates in Boston.  During the same period, client assets at the four largest
broker-dealers, known as wirehouses, fell by 12 percent to $4.78
trillion even as the firms gradually shifted to fee-based client
accounts. The money overseen by bank-owned broker-dealers such
as JPMorgan’s decreased by 12 percent to $464.2 billion.  ‘Supermarket’ Era Ends  The grip of big advisory networks on mutual fund sales has
also loosened. As recently as the 1990s, brokers, banks and
insurance companies dominated the top 20 spots among U.S. mutual
fund families, when money funds are included in total assets.
That changed as competition, regulatory scrutiny and the decline
of the “financial supermarket” model at companies such as
Citigroup Inc. led many distributors to sell their in-house fund
brands, Loren Fox, a senior research analyst at Strategic
Insight in New York, said in an e-mail.  The split between the advisory and investment management
businesses gathered momentum in the past five years as
brokerages moved toward a fee-based business, which meant more
of their representatives had a legal duty to act in the best
interest of clients, Bobroff said.  Potential Conflicts  “As a fiduciary, the conflict is substantial, and thus all
the divorces,” Bobroff said.  Citigroup, then part-owner of brokerage  Morgan Stanley (MA) 
Smith Barney, sold its money management business to  Legg Mason
Inc. (LM)  in 2005. Merrill Lynch unloaded its mutual funds to
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  in 2006, and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  sold its retail funds
business to  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  in 2010.  JPMorgan not only hasn’t abandoned proprietary fund sales,
it has beefed up its sales force. The number of financial
advisers at the Chase retail banking network; JPMorgan Private
Bank, which caters to ultra-high-net-worth clients; and JPMorgan
Securities, a brokerage unit, has grown by 48 percent in the
past three years to 5,220.  The internal sales channels account for about 20 percent of
net deposits to JPMorgan’s mutual funds, Gatch said.  Among other top 10 families, only Columbia, owned by
Minneapolis-based Ameriprise Financial Inc., has a related unit
of financial advisers offering its funds alongside those run by
others. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Co. is the only
wirehouse with a funds unit on Morningstar’s list of the 50
largest families.  ‘Opposite Direction’  “The whole industry has been moving in just the opposite
direction,” Greenwald said. “As long as their funds perform
well, they’re OK, but there’s a real or implied conflict of
interest when you sell your own brand of funds. If performance
falls, it could be an issue.”  JPMorgan doesn’t enjoy any advantage over competitors
offered at Chase and the private bank, as sales agents have no
extra incentives to sell in-house funds, according to Gatch.  “We operate on a level playing field with other investment
management firms,” he said. Gatch chalked up the internal sales
to his staff’s insight into the needs of Chase clients and
JPMorgan’s ability to deliver a product “as good, if not
dramatically better, than what our competitors offer.”  JPMorgan funds have been solid, albeit unspectacular,
Greenwald said.  Bond Fund Strength  The stock and bond funds, on average, beat 47 percent of
competitors in 2011, 53 percent over the past three years, 56
percent over five years and 57 percent over 10 years, according
to Morningstar. The data, which isn’t weighted by assets,
exclude funds of funds.  JPMorgan funds aim to produce consistent risk-adjusted
returns, Gatch said.  “They’re not going to blow you up, but they’re not going
to place you in the top rankings,” Rob Wherry, a Morningstar
analyst, said in a telephone interview.  The returns of the firm’s four biggest funds, all of which
focus on bonds, have generally been stronger. They beat 57
percent of competitors in 2011, 38 percent over three years, 81
percent over five years and 80 percent over 10 years.  “Their fixed income is certainly what stands out,” Wherry
said.  JPMorgan’s largest fund is the $24.9 billion  JPMorgan Core
Bond Fund (WOBDX) , managed by Douglas Swanson. The fund outperformed 84
percent of rivals in the five years ended Dec. 31, with an
average annual return of 7 percent, according to Morningstar.  ‘Multiple Boutiques’  The biggest stock fund is the $7.31 billion  Mid-Cap Value
Fund (FLMVX) , which bested 85 percent of rivals over five years with an
average annual return of 2 percent. The fund is managed by a
team led by Jonathan Simon.  JPMorgan funds are run by autonomous investment operations
including fixed-income teams in Cincinnati; Columbus, Ohio;
Boston; and  London , as well as equity groups in New York, London
and Hong Kong. All manage strategies for both individual and
institutional clients.  “The business is built on multiple boutiques sitting on
one industrial-strength platform,” O’Brien said.  O’Brien, like Gatch, has worked to beef up sales efforts,
while focusing more on customers outside the U.S.  When O’Brien, 48, took his post in 2010, 65 percent to 70
percent of institutional assets came from U.S. clients. He said
he is seeking to increase international assets to 50 percent by
2015, with sales targets including defined-benefit pension funds
in Europe, global insurance companies and sovereign wealth
funds.  No Passive Plans  The company has no interest in building its own passive
investing unit, regardless of the popularity of index funds,
O’Brien said. He didn’t rule out entering the business via
acquisition.  Gatch was less enthusiastic.  “Does beta have a place? Sure,” Gatch said, referring to
investments designed to match market returns. “In some cases
we’ll use ETFs in diverse portfolios that we manage. But we
think we’re going to do a better job for investors if we
maintain our focus exclusively on active management.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  