-- BofA Among Banks in $25 Million Deal Over N.Y. Mortgage Case
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-03-14T17:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/jpmorgan-among-banks-agreeing-to-25-million-mers-deal-with-n-y-.html
Bank of America Corp .,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and three other banks that reached a $25 billion
national settlement over foreclosure practices have agreed to
pay $25 million to New York to resolve some monetary claims over
the use of a mortgage database.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  sued  Bank of
America , JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in February over their
use of the mortgage registry known as MERS, accusing the lenders
of deceiving homeowners and conducting improper foreclosures.  The state’s agreement with the three banks, as well as
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , was filed yesterday in
federal court in Washington. The five lenders agreed in February
to a $25 billion settlement with 49 states and the federal
government to resolve claims of abusive foreclosure practices.
That settlement requires a federal judge’s approval.  Bank of America, JPMorgan, Wells Fargo and Citigroup each
agreed to pay $5.9 million to  New York , according to the court
filing. Ally agreed to pay $1.25 million. Ally and Citigroup
aren’t named in New York’s MERS lawsuit. The nationwide
foreclosure settlement preserves claims raised against the banks
in the New York case and any similar claims that may be asserted
against Citigroup and Ally, according to the court filing.  Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden , the first attorney
general to sue MERS, reached a similar settlement with the five
banks, according to court papers. Biden said in his complaint
that the MERS registry, which tracks servicing and ownership
rights in mortgages, is deceptive and harms consumers.  Banks Not Defendants  The banks, which weren’t named as defendants in the
 Delaware  case, have agreed to pay a total of $2.5 million to the
state to resolve claims for statutory penalties related to the
MERS litigation, Ian McConnel, a deputy attorney general for the
office, said in an interview.  Delaware’s agreement with the banks doesn’t prevent the
state from pursuing claims against the lenders for damages
suffered by homeowners as a result of their use of MERS,
McConnel said.  Danny Kanner, a spokesman for Schneiderman, said in a phone
interview that the New York agreement resolves some monetary
claims against the banks. The core claims of the lawsuit will
proceed, he said.  “We intend to aggressively litigate this case to finally
prohibit the widespread illegal and deceptive practices of the
banks set forth in our complaint,” Kanner said in an e-mailed
statement.  JPMorgan, Ally, Citigroup  Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan, and
Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, declined to
comment on the settlement.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New
York-based Citigroup, also declined to comment.  Representatives of the other two lenders didn’t respond to
e-mails seeking comment.  The New York agreement precludes the state from seeking
penalties of $5,000 for each violation in exchange for the $25
million, according to Kanner. The state will continue to pursue
damages incurred by New York homeowners as a result of the
banks’ use of MERS, he said. The state will also seek court-
ordered changes to it.  The national foreclosure settlement case is U.S. v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 12-00361, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington). The New York case is People of the State
of New York v. JPMorgan Chase & Co. 2768-2012, New York State
Supreme Court (Brooklyn). The Delaware case is State of Delaware
v. MERSCORP Inc., CA6987, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  