-- JPMorgan Boosts Dividend as Banks React to Stress Tests
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-03-13T20:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/jpmorgan-boosts-quarterly-dividend-plans-15-billion-buyback-shares-rise.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank, raised its dividend and authorized a share-repurchase
plan as banks respond to the  Federal Reserve ’s tests of how
lenders would fare in an economic decline.  JPMorgan’s quarterly dividend will rise 20 percent to 30
cents a share, payable on April 30, the New York-based company
said today in a statement. It authorized a $15 billion stock-
repurchase program, with $12 billion approved for 2012. U.S.
Bancorp, Minnesota’s largest bank, also boosted its payout and
announced a buyback.  “We expect to generate significant capital and deploy that
capital to the benefit of our shareholders,” JPMorgan Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said in the statement.  The Fed is requiring the nation’s largest lenders to show
they have credible plans for maintaining capital and continuing
lending in an economic downturn. JPMorgan said the Fed told the
company it completed its review and “did not object” to the
bank’s capital plans.  JPMorgan rose 7 percent, the most since November, to $43.39
at 4:10 p.m. in  New York .  The bank didn’t disclose how it performed on the  stress
test .  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment beyond the statement.  The $15 billion would be enough for JPMorgan to buy back
370 million shares at yesterday’s closing price of $40.54. That
represents about 9.7 percent of shares outstanding.  The new dividend level is in line with the $1.15 to $1.25 a
share annual dividend estimated by Charles Peabody, a Portales
Partners analyst, in a March 1 report. He expected a share
buyback program of $7 billion to $9 billion.  U.S. Bancorp  U.S. Bancorp said today it was increasing the quarterly
dividend 56 percent to 19.5 cents a share. The bank, based in
 Minneapolis , will buy back as much as 100 million shares, it
said in a statement distributed by  Business Wire .  Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s biggest brokerage,
said today it received no objection from the Fed to its dividend
payments. The firm said the Fed also didn’t object to its
capital plan, including the potential purchase of an additional
piece of the Smith Barney retail brokerage joint venture with
Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  