-- JPMorgan Joins Wells Fargo in Boosting Dividend
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-03-13T23:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/jpmorgan-joins-wells-fargo-in-boosting-dividend.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Wells
Fargo & Co. joined U.S. banks raising dividends and authorizing
share repurchases after passing the  Federal Reserve ’s test of
how lenders would fare in an economic decline.  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank, will increase its
quarterly dividend 20 percent to 30 cents a share, the New York-
based company said today in a statement. The bank also
authorized a $15 billion stock-repurchase program, with $12
billion approved for 2012. Wells Fargo & Co., the most valuable
U.S. lender, increased its quarterly dividend by 83 percent to
22 cents a share, according to a statement.  The Fed is requiring the nation’s largest banks to show
they have credible plans for maintaining capital and continuing
lending in an economic downturn. The central bank said 15 of the
19 largest U.S. banks could maintain adequate capital levels
even in a recession scenario in which they continue to pay
dividends and buy back stock.  “The fact that 15 passed a robust test shows the relative
financial health of the system,” said  Michael Holland , chairman
and founder of New York-based Holland & Co., which oversees more
than $4 billion including JPMorgan shares. “There has been so
much cash built up it almost screams to have some of it shared
with investors.”  The four firms that fell short by at least one measure
under the Fed’s stressed scenario were  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  MetLife
Inc. (MET) , Ally Financial Inc., and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  Citigroup and
Ally plan to resubmit their capital plans this year, according
to statements from the lenders.  Share Repurchases  JPMorgan’s $15 billion in share repurchases would be
enough to buy back about 346 million shares at today’s closing
price. That represents about 9 percent of shares outstanding.
JPMorgan rose 7 percent, the most since November, to $43.39 in
 New York . The bank was the biggest gainer on the 24-company  KBW
Bank Index (BKX) , which rose 4.6 percent.  “We expect to generate significant capital and deploy that
capital to the benefit of our shareholders,” JPMorgan Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said in the statement.  Wells Fargo (WFC) , based in  San Francisco , won approval to
increase its share repurchases this year and to redeem certain
trust-preferred securities, according to its statement. The bank
didn’t say how many shares it would repurchase.  Wells Fargo rose 5.8 percent today, while Citigroup gained
6.3 percent.  After almost three years of economic expansion, U.S. banks
have raised profits, rebuilt capital, and increased liquidity
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008
threatened the financial system.  Stress Scenario  The Fed said an unemployment rate of 13 percent, a 50
percent drop in stock prices and a 21 percent decline in  house
prices  under the stress scenario would produce aggregate losses
of $534 billion over nine quarters.  Even with that blow, the 19 banks would see their Tier 1
common capital ratio -- a measure of bank strength against loss
-- fall to 6.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013 in the
hypothetical scenario, above the 5 percent minimum the Fed
required. The ratio was 10.1 percent in the third quarter of
last year.  “It is night and day,”  Jason Goldberg , senior analyst at
Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, said before the announcement.
“In 2009, about half the banks failed the  stress test . The
industry’s capital position is higher today, and better quality.
There is a lot less leverage.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, said regulators didn’t object to its plan to repurchase
common stock and potentially raise the dividend. The bank’s
statement didn’t give further details.  Smith Barney  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said regulators didn’t object to its capital
plan, including the potential purchase of an additional piece of
the Smith Barney retail brokerage joint venture with Citigroup.
Morgan Stanley has the option to buy a 14 percent stake in May,
increasing its ownership to 65 percent, and can buy the business
outright over the next two years.  Regional banks announced plans to boost payouts. U.S.
Bancorp, Minnesota’s largest bank, increased its quarterly
dividend 56 percent to 19.5 cents a share and may buy back as
much as 100 million shares, it said in a statement.  BB&T Corp. (BBT) ,
based in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, raised its quarterly
dividend 25 percent to 20 cents a share, according to a
statement today.  KeyCorp (KEY) , the Cleveland-based lender, announced a $344
million share buyback and said it may raise its quarterly
dividend to 5 cents from 3 cents.  PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. (PNC) , based in Pittsburgh, said regulators had no objection to a
plan to raise its dividend. The board may consider an increase
at a meeting next month, PNC said.  American Express  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
customer spending, plans to boost its quarterly dividend 11
percent to 20 cents a share, and may repurchase as much as $5
billion of its stock within the next year, according to a
filing. The lender said it may buy back $4 billion of shares
this year and $1 billion in the first quarter of 2013.  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , the Birmingham, Alabama-based
lender, plans to sell $900 million of its common stock to help
repay $3.5 billion of federal bailout funds. Regions said the
action was included in its capital plan submitted as part of the
stress tests, according to a statement.  The Fed also subjected the six largest banks to a potential
global financial market shock. JPMorgan led the banks with an
estimated $27.7 billion in projected losses from mark-to-market
changes, credit valuation adjustments and counterparty default
losses, according to the Fed’ scenario. The six banks had a
projected $116 billion in trading and counterparty losses,
larger than the 19 banks subjected to Fed’s stress tests had in
any lending area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  