-- Kansas Wheat Faces Weather Risk as Warm Spell Aids Crop Progress
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-03-13T16:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/kansas-wheat-faces-weather-risk-as-warm-spell-aids-crop-progress.html
Winter wheat in  Kansas , the biggest
U.S. grower, has developed faster than normal because of
unusually warm weather, leaving plants vulnerable to a cold
spell or persistent dry conditions, an agronomist said.  Some winter wheat, planted in September and harvested in
May, already has entered the jointing stage, when stems begin to
emerge from the plant, Jim Shroyer of  Kansas State University 
said. That leaves the grain more at risk from a freeze. In April
2007,  temperatures  plunged as low as 15 degrees Fahrenheit in
central Kansas, leading to a drop in the state’s harvest to a
five-year low, government data show.  Temperatures may climb above 80 degrees Fahrenheit (27
degrees Celsius) this week in parts of Kansas, Oklahoma and
Texas, or as much as 20 degrees above normal, said Andy Karst, a
meteorologist at World Weather Inc. in  Overland Park , Kansas.
Western areas of the Great Plains, where storms over the weekend
brought less than a 0.5 inch (1.3 centimeters) of rain, may be
mostly dry next week, he said in an interview.  The crop “looks actually too good for this time of the
year,” Shroyer of the state university said last week in a
telephone interview from Manhattan, Kansas. “With the warm
weather conditions that we’ve had, the wheat has really taken
off. It’s not paying any attention to the calendar whatsoever.”  “Extreme” Drought  Cold temperatures that may damage crops aren’t in the
forecast through at least the next week, Karst said yesterday in
a telephone interview. Areas of southwest Kansas, the  Oklahoma 
Panhandle and west Texas are still facing “extreme” or
“exceptional” drought after below-average precipitation last
year, according to the University of  Nebraska  at Lincoln’s U.S.
Drought Monitor.  Wheat futures have declined 0.8 percent this year to
$6.4725 a bushel at 11:20 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The price slumped 18 percent in 2011 as global output climbed.
U.S. production may total 2.165 billion bushels in the year
beginning May 31, up from 1.999 billion a year earlier, the
Department of Agriculture said on Feb. 24.  Farmers in Kansas may have planted about 9.5 million acres
for harvesting this year, 8 percent more than a year earlier,
after dry weather in the autumn led to earlier seeding, said
Aaron Harries, the marketing director of the  Manhattan , Kansas-
based grower group  Kansas Wheat .  Storms in November and December recharged soil moisture,
particularly in central parts of the state, Harries said.
Conditions turned drier again this year with western Kansas
receiving about 75 percent of the normal amount of rain since
Jan. 1,  National Weather Service  data show.  ‘Bigger Problem’  “Middle and late March, that’s when we like to see
rainfall pick up” because crops have emerged from winter
dormancy, Harries said. “If it doesn’t start raining in March
and April, that’s going to be a bigger problem.”  Drought cut production in Kansas to 276.5 million bushels
last year, the lowest since 2002, USDA data show. In 2007,
during the last springtime cold snap, production was 283.3
million bushels, the lowest in five years.  As of March 11, 4 percent of the crop in  Kansas  entered the
jointing stage, compared with 1 percent a year earlier, the USDA
said. In  Oklahoma , the figure was 39 percent, up from 22
percent.  This year,  Topeka , Kansas, had its second-warmest winter on
record. Temperatures from December to February averaged 38
degrees Fahrenheit, according to the  National Weather Service .
Storms beginning March 19 may bring eastern areas of the Plains
as much as 2.5 inches (6.4 centimeters) of rain, while drier
regions from west  Texas  to southwest Kansas may only get 0.2
inch to 0.65 inch, World Weather Inc. said today in a report.  “Temperatures are probably a little warmer than we’d like
it, and we’re dry,” said Richard Randall, a farmer from Scott
City, Kansas, who started irrigating his fields yesterday after
storms brought only 0.1 inch during the weekend. “I would like
to wait a little later, but it needs a drink now,” he said in a
telephone interview. “We need a good rain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  