-- Kenyan Shilling Retreats From Yearlong High on Dollar Demand
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-03-13T13:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/kenyan-shilling-retreats-from-yearlong-high-on-dollar-demand.html
Kenya’s shilling snapped two days
of gains as businesses sought to accumulate dollars after the
currency of East Africa’s biggest economy strengthened to its
highest level in more than a year yesterday.  The shilling depreciated as much as 0.5 percent and traded
less than 0.1 percent lower at 82.20 per dollar as of 3:02 p.m.
in Nairobi, the capital.  “The shilling has weakened on account of increased dollar
demand by businesses as they seek to accumulate dollars
following the strengthening to new levels,” Jeremiah Kendagor,
acting head of trading at Nairobi-based  Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd. (KNCB) , said in a phone interview.  Kenya’s currency closed yesterday at 82.18 per dollar, its
highest in 13 months, on what the central bank attributed to
“tight” money market.  Tanzania’s shilling strengthened 0.4 percent to 1,587.55,
the biggest gain since Jan. 20.  “The shilling has been supported by the central bank sale
of dollars to service demand coming from  oil companies  and the
manufacturing sector,” Fred Siwale, a dealer with  CRDB Bank Plc (CRDB) 
said by phone today from  Dar es Salaam , the commercial capital.  Ugandan shilling depreciated for a second day, depreciating
as much as 0.9 percent before paring its loss to 0.3 percent at
2,464.  “The shilling weakened because the central bank offered a
one week reverse repo which eased the tight liquidity in the
market,” Taib Lubega, a currency trader at  Stanbic Bank Uganda
Ltd. (SBU) , said by phone from Kampala without specifying the amount
offered. Stephen Kaboyo, director of financial markets at the
central bank, did not answer his phone when Bloomberg sought a
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  