-- Kony Evades Capture in Central Africa Amid Internet Campaign
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-03-14T13:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/kony-evades-capture-in-central-africa-as-internet-campaign-rages.html
Joseph Kony , the Ugandan warlord
who’s become the subject of a global social-network campaign, is
evading capture amid tensions between Central African nations
where his Lord’s Resistance Army operates.  Kony and his fighters fanned out across the  Central African
Republic , South Sudan and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo after
fleeing northern Uganda six years ago. The armies of the four
nations disagree about the threat posed by the LRA, slowing the
progress to apprehend Kony, said Ned Dalby, a regional analyst
at the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group , an independent
advocacy group.  “A major problem facing the operation is the mutual
mistrust between Congo and Uganda at both the political and
military levels,” Dalby said from Accra, the Ghanaian capital.
“What’s really needed is sustained institutional and
multilateral pressure from western countries, the  United Nations 
and the  African Union  on the governments of Uganda and Congo
primarily, but also on the South Sudanese” and the Central
African Republic.  Kony, whose official age isn’t known, has been on the run
since being indicted by the  International Criminal Court  in 2005
on charges including murder, mutilation, rape and the abduction
of 30,000 children for use as soldiers and sex slaves. In the
two-decade rebellion in northern Uganda, the LRA rebels hacked
villagers with machetes and burnt people to death in their huts
at the instigation of Kony, who claims he is a prophet.  Invisible Children  The LRA and Kony were thrust into the public eye last week
after a  30-minute video  by San Diego-based Invisible Children
went viral on the Internet through campaigns on social-media
networks like Facebook and Twitter. The Kony2012 video, in which
filmmaker Jason Russell attempts to explain Kony’s actions to
his four-year-old son, was viewed 76 million times on YouTube
since it was posted on March 5.  Invisible Children , which was created after the filmmakers
visited  Uganda  in 2003, calls on supporters to lobby U.S.
lawmakers and buy posters and bracelets to publicize Kony’s name
so he can be captured by the end of the year. In October, the
U.S. sent 100 combat-equipped forces, including special
operations personnel, to Central  Africa  to assist Uganda’s army
in capturing Kony.  Wizard of the Nile  The LRA rebellion began after Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni came to power in 1986 by overthrowing Tito Okello, an
ethnic Acholi. The LRA blames Museveni’s forces for purging the
army of Acholi people, the majority of whom make up the LRA.  According to abductees, Kony is inspired by the Ten
Commandments and exhorts child soldiers to kill and maim in the
name of the Bible,  Matthew Green  said in his 2008 book, The
Wizard of the Nile, which chronicles the hunt for Kony. The
rebel leader made abductees undergo “purification” rituals by
his priests that would protect them against bullets from
Museveni’s forces, according to Green.  Uganda’s government forced the rebels to flee into
neighboring countries in 2006, ending the insurgency in the
north. Museveni, who won re-election last year, has since
focused on rebuilding the economy of Africa’s largest coffee
exporter. Uganda is set to become Africa’s newest oil producer
this year when  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  begins pumping crude and gas from
Lake Albert Basin.  Museveni sent forces into Central African Republic, South
Sudan and Congo to help combat an estimated 300 LRA fighters. In
December, Ugandan forces left Congo, where a small group of
about 30 rebels remain, according to that country’s army.  Threat to Civilians  “The LRA is not a spent force,” Matthew Brubacher, a UN
official working on dismantling the LRA, said by phone on March
12 from Goma in eastern Congo. “They may have diminished in
size, but they retain the capacity to regenerate themselves and
they retain the capacity to be threat to the civilian
population. Historically they’ve taken advantage of any lull in
military operations to expand their force.”  The four Central African nations have failed to collaborate
effectively to capture Kony. At a Sept. 30 meeting between the
countries’ military generals, a Ugandan official said the LRA’s
survival in Congo was partly due to “a lack of trust” between
the two countries’ forces, according to a copy of the minutes of
the meeting. The Congo government asked Ugandan forces to leave
the country because the LRA no longer represented a military
threat there, according to the minutes.  Root of Mistrust  “We’ve done our job,” Jean-Claude Kifwa, a Congolese army
general, said in an interview in Congo’s capital, Kinshasa,
yesterday. “We’ve addressed the problem. Kony is not here in
Congo. He’s not Congolese, and I can’t go hunt him in another
country.”  The root of the mistrust between the two countries stems
from years of war in the 1990s and early 2000s when Ugandan
forces invaded Congo and supported a rebellion against the
Congolese government, Dalby said. That’s “still fresh in the
Congolese mind,” he said.  LRA attacks in Congo have increased since Ugandan troops
left the country three months ago, forcing more than 3,000
people to flee their homes in northeastern Dungu since February,
according to the UN Refugee Agency.  “This month they’ve been stopping people along the roads,
stopping small merchants and stealing from them,” Father Benoit
Kinalegu, head of Dungu’s Diocesan Commission for Justice and
Peace, said in a phone interview.  Kony2012 Video  Uganda still has military forces in Central African
Republic and  South Sudan  hunting for Kony, Uganda’s government
spokesman Fred Opolot said in an e-mailed statement on March 12.  The Kony2012 campaign, which has won support from
celebrities like  Oprah Winfrey  and  Angelina Jolie , may put
pressure on the U.S. and regional governments to ramp up efforts
to combat the LRA. Criticism from Uganda’s government that the
video contained factual inaccuracies and questions raised by
viewers about Invisible Children’s motives, haven’t detracted
from the campaign’s popularity.  “Having pressure from the U.S. helps, so countries don’t
withdraw their commitment,” Ida Sawyer, a researcher with  Human
Rights Watch  in Congo, said in an interview yesterday in
Kinshasa. “The hope is that U.S. military advisers will improve
intelligence gathering and analysis, and help regional
governments act quickly and effectively to arrest Kony.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  