-- NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament Tips Off With Doubleheader in Dayton
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-13T05:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/ncaa-men-s-basketball-tournament-tips-off-with-doubleheader-in-dayton.html
The National Collegiate Athletic
Association men’s basketball tournament tips off today with two
games, including one featuring the nation’s highest-scoring team
in  Iona College of New York .  Iona meets  Brigham Young University  in Dayton,  Ohio , for a
chance at a No. 14 seed in the West Regional and a second-round
matchup against  Marquette University .  Western Kentucky  plays
 Mississippi Valley State  in tonight’s first game in Dayton for a
No. 16 seed in the South Regional.  The Gaels, who scored 83.3 points a game this season, were
among the last teams named to the tournament’s field of 68
schools. A year after Virginia Commonwealth won an opening game
in Dayton and then pulled off four more upsets to reach the
Final Four, senior guard Scott Machado said New Rochelle, New
York-based Iona relishes the chance to prove it, too, belongs.  “Now we get to show the whole country what Iona basketball
is about,” said Machado, who averaged 13.6 points and 9.9
assists for the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference regular-
season champions. “We just want to prove everybody right that
chose us in the committee. We want to show everybody that we can
play and that we can compete with the best.”  Iona (25-7) has a 1-8 record in the NCAA tournament, while
 Brigham Young  (25-8) is 14-29.  The tournament, which last year expanded to 68 teams from
65, features two more games in Dayton tomorrow.  Lamar University  faces the  University of Vermont  for a spot
against Midwest Regional No. 1 seed North Carolina, while the
 University of California-Berkeley  plays  South Florida  for the
12th seed in the Midwest and a second-round matchup against
 Temple University .  Final Four  Full NCAA tournament play begins March 15. The Final Four
is scheduled for March 31 at the Louisiana Superdome in  New
Orleans , with the title game two days later.  The  University of Kentucky  is among the No. 1 seeds in the
four regionals and the Wildcats are favored by Las Vegas
oddsmakers to win the championship.  North Carolina , Michigan
State and  Syracuse University  are the other top seeds.  Kentucky , the No. 1 seed in the South Regional, will open
tournament play March 15 in Louisville, Kentucky, against the
winner of tonight’s game between Mississippi Valley State and
Western Kentucky. Mississippi Valley State, which is winless in
four previous NCAA tournament appearances, went 21-12 this
season while Western Kentucky is the lone team in the field with
a losing record, at 15-18.  “I think more about we’re 6-0 in our last six games,”
Western Kentucky coach Ray Harper said at a news conference
yesterday in Dayton. “We know how to close out games now. We’re
not going to live in the rear view mirror. We know who we are
now, and that’s what I’m most excited about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  