-- NCAA Tournament Grad Rate Little Changed With Harvard, Duke 100%
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-03-13T16:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/ncaa-tournament-graduation-rate-little-changed-with-harvard-duke-at-100-.html
A  study  of graduation rates for
teams in the men’s college basketball championship tournament
shows levels little changed, with  Harvard University  and  Duke
University  among eight schools at 100 percent.  The analysis also found a high disparity between the
graduation rates for white and black players.  The study by the University of Central Florida’s Institute
for Diversity and Ethics in Sports showed the average increased
to 67 percent this year from 66 percent for the 2011 tournament
field in the  Graduate Success Rate , or GSR, which measures how
many athletes graduate within six years of entering school.
White players graduated at an 88 percent rate compared with 60
percent for blacks, according to the report.  “The most troubling statistic in our study is the
continuing large disparity between the GSR of white basketball
student-athletes and African-American basketball student-
athletes,” said Richard Lapchick, author of the study and
chairman of  Central Florida ’s DeVos Sports Business Management
Graduate Program.  He called the gap “embarrassing” even though it was down
from the previous study. The primary reason for the smaller gap
is that the graduation rates of white student-athletes declined
this year to 88 percent from 91 percent last year, according to
the study.  Harvard, in the tournament field for the first time since
1946, and Duke, seeking its fifth National Collegiate Athletic
Association championship, were joined at the 100 percent level
by  Notre Dame ,  Brigham Young , Belmont, Western Kentucky,
Creighton and Davidson.  Perfect Rates  Vanderbilt, which plays Harvard in their opening game on
March 15, and Xavier were both at 93 percent.  Connecticut , the
defending NCAA champion has the lowest rate at 25 percent. The
NCAA said in October that the Huskies would have been barred
from last year’s tournament if the association’s grade standards
known as the Academic Progress Rate had been in effect. The new
rules are being phased in over four years.  Lapchick said that black male basketball players graduate
at a much higher rate than black males who aren’t athletes.  The graduation rate for black male students as a whole is
38 percent, 22 percentage points lower than for those on the
basketball teams, according to the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  