-- Aussie, Kiwi Rise on Risk Appetite as Asian Stocks Gain
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-03-13T17:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/new-zealand-s-dollar-advances-on-food-house-price-data-aussie-rallies.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars rose for the first time in three days as global stocks
rallied after U.S. retail sales gained the most in five months.  The New Zealand dollar advanced against most of its 16
major counterparts after reports showed the nation’s house and
food prices increased in February. The appeal of  Australia ’s
currency was limited after home loans in the country fell more
than economists estimated and business confidence slumped to a
five-month low.  “Stocks are on firm footing, so the Aussie and kiwi are
steadily recouping the declines from yesterday,” said Kumiko Gervaise, an analyst in  Tokyo  at Gaitame.com Research Institute
Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s largest online currency margin-trading
company.  Australia’s dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.0537 at 12:55
p.m. New York time. Yesterday it touched $1.0474, the lowest
since Jan. 25. The so-called Aussie traded 0.7 percent stronger
at 87.10 yen.  New Zealand’s currency advanced 0.5 percent to 82.18 U.S.
cents. The so-called kiwi climbed 1 percent to 67.95 yen, after
dropping 0.7 percent yesterday.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  rose 0.9 percent and the
MSCI World Index of stocks gained 1 percent as retail sales in
the U.S. rose 1.1 percent in February, according Commerce
Department figures.  New Zealand Economy  The Real Estate Institute of New Zealand Inc.’s index of
 house prices  increased 0.8 percent to 3,280.5 last month,
according to an e-mailed statement released today. The number of
transactions rose 37 percent from a year earlier, the institute
said.  New Zealand’s February food prices climbed 0.6 percent from
the previous month, the statistics bureau said today. The
country’s  two-year swap rate , a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, increased four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 3.05 percent.  “We had some housing data and food price data that was a
little bit stronger than you would have expected,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
Australia’s second-largest lender. “The Aussie has gone up, so
the kiwi has gone up as well.”  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments in Australia dropped 1.2 percent in January from the
previous month, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. That
compared with a revised 2.1 percent increase in December and the
0.6 percent decline that was the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  