-- NFL Takes Salary Cap Space From Cowboys, Redskins Over 2 Years, ESPN Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-13T00:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/nfl-takes-salary-cap-space-from-cowboys-redskins-over-2-years-espn-says.html
The  National Football League  is
taking a combined $46 million in salary cap space from the
 Washington  Redskins and Dallas Cowboys over the next two years
for front-loading contracts during the 2010 season,  ESPN said ,
citing unidentified league officials.  The Redskins will lose $36 million in salary cap space and
the Cowboys will give up $10 million, ESPN said. Dallas and
Washington will be able to decide how they’ll split the losses
over the 2012 and 2013 seasons, while 28 other NFL teams will
get an added $1.6 million in salary space to use over the next
two years, the cable sports network reported.  The NFL said yesterday that the player payroll limit for
each team would be $120.6 million for the 2012 season. ESPN said
the New Orleans Saints and Oakland Raiders are the only two
teams that won’t get a share of the combined $46 million in cap
space taken from the Redskins and Cowboys.  The Cowboys and Redskins released statements today saying
they were in compliance with contract rules in 2010. Neither
team directly disputed the ESPN report.  “The  Dallas Cowboys  were in compliance with all league
salary cap rules during the uncapped year,” team spokesman Rich Dalrymple said. “We look forward to the start of the free
agency period, where our commitment to improving our team
remains unchanged.”  Redskins General Manager Bruce Allen said Washington has
received “no written documentation from the NFL concerning
adjustments to the team salary cap in 2012 as reported in
various media outlets.”  “Every contract entered into by the club during the
applicable periods complied with the 2010 and 2011 collective
bargaining agreements and, in fact, were approved by the NFL
commissioner’s office,” Allen said. “We look forward to free
agency, the draft and the coming football season.”  ‘An Unacceptable Risk’  The NFL issued an e-mailed statement today that said the
contract practices of a “small number of clubs during the 2010
league year created an unacceptable risk to future competitive
balance, particularly in light of the relatively modest salary
cap growth projected for the new agreement’s early years.”  The adjustments to team salary caps for the 2012 and 2013
seasons will help “remedy these effects and preserve
competitive balance” throughout the league, the NFL said. It
didn’t identify the teams involved and didn’t disclose the
amount of the payroll adjustments.  “These agreed-upon adjustments were structured in a manner
that will not affect the salary cap or player spending on a
league-wide basis,” the NFL said.  The NFL didn’t have a salary cap during the 2010 season
after the league’s collective bargaining agreement expired.  Without a salary cap, the Redskins and Cowboys paid money
to some players in 2010 that normally would have been spread out
over the length of their contracts, ESPN reported. It was an
advantage some other NFL owners said was unfair, ESPN said. The
Cowboys in September 2010 gave wide receiver  Miles Austin  a six-
year, $54 million contract extension that paid him a $17 million
base salary in 2010, according to ESPN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  