-- NicOx Rises Most Since 2006 on Glaucoma Drug Study: Paris Mover
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-03-13T17:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/nicox-shares-gain-on-glaucoma-drug-study-results-paris-mover.html
NicOx SA (COX) , a French drugmaker,
posted its biggest one-day gain in six years after saying an
experimental glaucoma treatment it licensed to  Bausch & Lomb
Inc. (BOL)  helped patients in a mid-stage study.  The shares surged 82 cents, or 45 percent, to 2.64 euros in
Paris, giving NicOx a market value of 191.9 million euros ($252
million). It was the steepest increase since March 2, 2006.  The drug helped reduce the fluid pressure inside the eye in
patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension, the
companies said today in a  joint statement  outlining the trial
results. Bausch & Lomb will pay Sophia Antipolis, France-based
NicOx $10 million for meeting the target and begin advanced
tests on the compound, known as BOL-303259-X, they said.  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  had previously dropped the drug’s development.  “Today’s announcement is a very good surprise,” Pierre Corby, an analyst at Aurel BGC in Paris, wrote in a note to
clients today. He raised his recommendation on the stock to
“buy” from “hold.”  Two of the four doses tested reduced eye-fluid pressure
more than Pfizer’s Xalatan, according to the statement.  NicOx sold rights to the drug to Rochester, New York-based
Bausch & Lomb in March 2010. It had repurchased them from Pfizer
in 2009 after the U.S. company decided not to pursue the
compound’s development. NicOx is the  best-performing stock  today
in a 353-member CAC All-Tradable Index.  “I can’t hide we’re happy about it,” Mailys Ferrere, who
heads investments at the Fonds Strategique d’Investissement,
 France ’s sovereign investment fund, said during a press
conference in Paris. The fund was NicOx’s  biggest shareholder 
with a 5.4 percent stake at the end of 2010, according to
Bloomberg data.  “We’re still there and we continue supporting the
company,” Ferrere said. The fund, best known in France as FSI,
acquired a stake in NicOx in 2009, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  