-- Nomura Said to Be Cutting 30 Managers From Fixed-Income Division
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-03-14T02:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/nomura-is-said-to-be-cutting-30-managers-in-fixed-income-unit-under-ashley.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s
biggest securities firm, will cut about 30 managers in its  fixed
income  unit, three months after naming Steve Ashley global head
of the division, a person briefed on the matter said.  The departures will include Kieran Higgins, co-head of
fixed income for  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa , and Peter Hornick, head of fixed income sales for the Americas, Ashley
wrote in a memo to employees yesterday. Georges Assi will become
sole head of fixed income in Europe.  “These changes will help drive the next phase of our
growth in global fixed income,” Ashley said in the e-mail. “We
have a lot to achieve and I look forward to working closely with
the new management team as we shape the future strategic agenda
of our global business.”  Nomura has pledged to cut $1.2 billion of costs worldwide
after expenses surged following its 2008 purchase of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s businesses in Europe and  Asia . The
shakeup follows the January resignations of  Jesse Bhattal ,
former deputy president and chief of wholesale banking, and
Tarun Jotwani, who was head of Nomura’s global markets unit,
which was subsequently split.  Hornick declined to comment, while Higgins didn’t
immediately return a call to his office. Officials at Nomura in
London declined to comment.  Shares of Tokyo-based Nomura rose 3.4 percent to 399 yen at
11:30 a.m. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Nomura has gained 71
percent this year, the second-best performer on the  Nikkei 225
Stock Average. (NKY)   Revenue from fixed income was 71.2 billion yen ($860
million) in the three months ended Dec. 31, 1 percent less than
in the year-earlier period, according to company filings. Net
income from the wholesale business increased more than threefold
to 37.8 billion yen.  Following is a table of Nomura’s global fixed-income
management committee:  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Liam Vaughan in  London  at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  