-- Northeast Utilities Settles With Connecticut on Nstar Buy
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-03-13T20:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/northeast-utilities-settles-with-connecticut-on-nstar-purchase.html
Northeast Utilities (NU)  agreed to
freeze rates and spend $300 million on reliability improvements
to win support from  Connecticut  officials for its $5.05 billion
purchase of Nstar.  “The agreement we’re announcing today does many things,
but most importantly it will ensure that distribution rates for
our consumers will stay flat for two-and-a-half years, providing
some much-needed relief for residents,” Connecticut Governor
Dannel Malloy said in a press release today.  The settlement is between the companies, the governor, the
state attorney general and consumer counsel. It needs approval
from the state’s Public Utilities Regulatory Authority. The
Connecticut regulator decided in January it would review the
takeover after an October snowstorm cut power to Northeast
Utilities’ customers in the state, some for more than a week.  Northeast Utilities, based in Springfield,  Massachusetts ,
and run from Hartford, Connecticut, agreed to buy Boston-based
 Nstar (NST)  in October 2010 to create  New England ’s largest utility
owner. Final regulatory approval for the transaction is pending
in both Massachusetts and Connecticut, the last needed to close
the deal.  Northeast rose 1.2 percent to $37.55 at the close in  New
York . Nstar rose 1.2 percent to $49.18.  Rate Freeze  The agreement freezes distribution rates until Dec. 1,
2014, according to the release. The companies also agreed to
keep Northeast Utilities’ headquarters in Hartford for seven
years and to maintain the aggregate number of line workers in
Connecticut and Massachusetts.  The companies committed to investing $100 million annually
for three years to improve the electric distribution system and
$120 million in rate relief for Connecticut customers, including
$25 million in rate credits for homes and businesses.  Last month, Northeast Utilities agreed to freeze power
rates for four years, issue customer refunds and buy electricity
from an offshore wind project as part of a settlement that is
awaiting approval from Massachusetts regulators.  Connecticut regulators have scheduled an April 2 final
decision on the takeover. Northeast Utilities has asked
Massachusetts officials to approve the merger April 4, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Charles W. Shivery told investors on
a Feb. 24 conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 