-- Norway House Prices May Fall ‘Markedly,’ Bank Watchdog Warns
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2012-03-13T10:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/norway-house-prices-may-fall-markedly-as-debts-rise-bank-watchdog-warns.html
Norwegian  house prices  may fall
“markedly,” threatening to expose the economy to
“substantial” knock-on effects, the financial regulator said.  The overheated housing market is the biggest domestic
threat to the economy, the Oslo-based regulator said today in a
statement. Households have swelled their debt loads and grown
more reliant on interest-only loans as they assume rates will
remain low, the regulator said.  “This has contributed to pushing debt and house prices to
a very high level in historical terms,” the regulator said.
“The international downturn has encouraged expectations that
 interest rates  will remain low for a long period in  Norway  as
elsewhere. Expectations of continued low interest rates and high
income growth are sustaining the demand for loans.”  Policy makers in the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter
are struggling with a potential property bubble, which  Robert
Shiller , the co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price
index, has called “dangerous.” Private debt levels have risen to
their highest since at least 1988, the central bank estimates,
and house prices rose an annual 7 percent last month, according
to the Real Estate Brokers Association.  While households are backed by “high” savings ratios,
these assets are tied up in real estate and pensions, the FSA
said. The regulator said it’s closely monitoring how banks
comply with a guideline introduced in December of limiting
mortgages to 85 percent of the value of the home.  The Norwegian economy, home to oil producer Statoil ASA,
has withstood  Europe ’s debt crisis as a jump in crude prices is
spurring record investments this year in offshore oil and gas
fields. Norwegian manufacturing accelerated at the fastest pace
in nine months in February and  consumer confidence  improved in
the first quarter as unemployment hovers below 3 percent.  Building Capital  The regulator also said that the country’s banks will need
to build up their equity further to prepare for “increased
losses and reduced profitability.”  “It is encouraging that Norwegian banks are devoting the
bulk of last year’s buoyant profits to bolster their equity
capital position,” Morten Baltzersen, director general of the
authority, said in a statement. “At the same time we need to
allow for the possibility that the Norwegian economy will be
harder hit by the international turbulence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net 
Kristin Myers in Oslo at   kmyers16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  