-- Boost the Economy, Elect a New Congress: Peter Orszag
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-03-13T23:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/to-boost-u-s-productivity-elect-a-new-congress-peter-orszag.html
Last week, Harvard Business School
hosted a conference in  New York  to talk about how the U.S. could
continue to support “high and rising  living standards  for
Americans” in the face of global competition. It was a lively
discussion, leading to many good, if familiar, economic-policy
ideas for increasing productivity in the U.S.  Unfortunately, this conversation largely ignored the key
constraint to many of the policy recommendations: the rise of
 hyperpolarization  in Congress. If business leaders want better
economic policy, they need to first help elect more moderates to
Congress.  The conference was centered on a  survey  of 10,000 Harvard
Business School graduates, conducted in October 2011 by  Michael
Porter  and  Jan Rivkin , professors at the school. A quarter of
the respondents had achieved the rank of chief executive,
president or chairman of a corporation, or the equivalent.  Some of the survey’s most interesting questions had to do
with decisions about location. More than 40 percent of people
who participated said their firms had faced decisions about
siting new businesses or relocating existing ones within the
past year, and almost 20 percent of them had been personally
involved in making the decision.  Return to U.S.  The good news: Three-quarters of the 93 decisions about
whether to relocate existing business to the U.S. were positive.
Hence some of the recent press about a wave of “on-shoring.”
Similarly, more than half the decisions made about siting new
businesses resulted in a decision to put them in the U.S. The
bad news: The majority of location decisions (607 out of the
1,007 total) involved whether to move existing business out of
the U.S., and almost all of those resulted in such a move. All
told, almost 70 percent of the decisions resulted in business
being located abroad rather than in the U.S.  The  Harvard Business School  alumni provided a set of
recommendations for policy makers. They are familiar ones to
those who follow policy debates -- including simplifying the  tax
code , reforming immigration policies, investing in
infrastructure, and strengthening the use of cost-benefit
analysis in the regulatory system.  Depending on how they were carried out, such changes could
help attenuate (even if they wouldn’t eliminate) the effects on
wages for many Americans from an increasingly globalized
workforce, which under some estimates has quadrupled over the
past three decades.  The main challenge, however, is not to come up with such a
list of productivity-enhancing policy suggestions. It is,
instead, to figure out how they could be enacted.  Corporate leaders who are interested in this agenda should
therefore walk across the  Charles River  from the business school
to the Kennedy School of Government and ask how they can help to
elect more moderates to Congress who could carry out the laundry
list of policy recommendations they support.  In particular, the decline in moderates in Congress --
exemplified most recently by the announcement from Senator
 Olympia Snowe  that she will retire -- and the associated rise of
hyperpolarization impedes policy making.  Nolan McCarty, a political scientist at  Princeton
University , has recently examined the issue and concluded that
polarization substantially impairs legislative productivity.
McCarty writes that, under one way of analyzing the question,
“the least polarized congressional term produces a whopping 166
percent more legislation than the most polarized.”  Perhaps even more disturbingly, McCarty argues that in a
polarized Congress any legislation that is passed is of poorer
quality, thanks in part to the power of extreme factions.  Increasing Political Polarization  So while it is commendable that business leaders take the
time and effort to recommend specific policies, their work will
be ineffective as long as they ignore the problem of increasing
political polarization.  What specifically could business leaders do to reduce the
problem? The evidence suggests that although the public has
become more polarized in recent decades, it remains more
centrist than the Congress itself. That difference creates an
opportunity for efforts to reduce the polarization in Congress
to the level we see in the population.  The most realistic approach is to work to elect moderate
representatives in House districts that do not swing hard one
way or the other and moderate senators in states that are
relatively evenly divided politically.  This strategy is more auspicious than betting on a third-
party candidate to win the presidential election. (If someone
from a third party did reach the White House, what would he or
she do with a bimodal Congress anyway?)  Business leaders interested in American productivity
already have plenty of good ideas for increasing it. But the
first thing they should do is get involved in good old-fashioned
electoral politics to boost the number of moderates in Congress.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  