-- Obama’s Rare-Earths Case With WTO Won’t Ensure Security: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-13T18:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/obama-s-rare-earths-complaint-before-wto-won-t-ensure-u-s-security-view.html
The  Cold War  had Americans worried
about a “missile gap.” Should the rise of China have us
nervous about a neodymium gap?  It’s a question President  Barack Obama  is taking seriously,
as he showed Tuesday in asking the  World Trade Organization  to
look into China’s manipulation of the global market in so-called
rare-earth elements. We wish the U.S. Defense Department would
show an equal amount of concern.  Neodymium is one of 17 rare-earth metals that have become
vital to industrial production and national security in our
high-tech age. Its unique magnetic properties are integral to
computer hard drives, hybrid-car motors, aircraft turbines and
those Beats by Dr. Dre headphones your teenager apparently can’t
live without.  One thing neodymium isn’t is rare -- it is as commonplace
in the earth’s crust as prosaic metals like copper, and
scattered around the globe. Much the same can be said of
praseodymium (used in Hollywood’s arc lights), samarium (guided
missiles) and lanthanum (night-vision goggles). Yet, despite
this abundance,  China  produces more than 90 percent of the
global supply of rare earths.  Mining Isn’t Easy  There are many reasons for this: The ore is usually found
in small quantities that aren’t cost-effective to mine and
refine. Because it is often in seams of thorium and other
radioactive or harmful substances, extraction can create an
environmental disaster. Opening a new mine in the U.S. can cost
upward of $1 billion, and can take as long as 15 years before it
becomes operational. These difficulties give an advantage to
China, with its vast rare-earth deposits in  Inner Mongolia  and
elsewhere, state-financed mining operations, and lax
environmental and worker protections.  It’s never good to have a single supplier develop a market
stranglehold, and the problem is compounded in this case because
China is a commercial and military rival with no qualms about
pressing every advantage. It places quotas on exports and sets
prices for rare earths far lower for the domestic market -- a
ploy to get Western manufacturers to move factories inside
China. According to a study by Bloomberg Government, the average
Chinese export price of neodymium oxide was $321 per kilogram in
the summer of 2011, 66 percent higher than the domestic price
and a 563 percent increase compared with the same period in
2010.  The stakes go beyond commerce: In 2010, after  Japan 
detained a Chinese fishing captain near some disputed offshore
islands, Beijing played some power diplomacy by placing an
embargo on rare-earth exports to its island neighbor.  In response, Japan has been shaping a national strategy on
rare earths, centered on increasing stockpiles, recycling from
discarded electronics and finding new sources (its scientists
believe they may have found large deposits under the ocean). Yet
the jury is out on Japan’s approach, and such steps may not lend
themselves to the U.S.’s military-industrial structure. Congress
is rightly leery of intervening in the market through creation
of a large-scale defense stockpile, and most electronic devices
contain too little rare-earth metal to make recycling
financially worthwhile.  On new sources, however, things are looking up.  Molycorp (MCP)  of
 Greenwood Village , Colorado, has recently reopened its Mountain
Pass mine in  California ’s  Mojave Desert , which is particularly
rich in so-called light rare earths such as lanthanum, cerium,
praseodymium and neodymium. Mountain Pass was shut down more
than a decade ago because of radioactive discharge. This time
around, however, Molycorp seems to be saying and doing all the
right things environmentally, and plans to be at full production
later this year.  A Market Success  Congress had considered providing loan guarantees for
Molycorp’s efforts to reopen Mountain Pass. In the end, the
market worked just fine. The company raised nearly $400 million
in an initial public offering last July and this month reached a
$1.3 billion deal to purchase  Canada ’s  Neo Material Technologies
Inc. (NEM) , a major refiner of rare earths. (Although this is mostly
good news, Neo Material has two plants in China, raising the
troubling possibility that ore from Mountain Pass could be
exported there.) Meanwhile, the other major Western company in
the field, Lynas Corp. of  Australia , is running into local
opposition in efforts to build a refinery in  Malaysia .  Still, given the importance of rare earths to the  U.S.
economy  and national defense, the government has a role to play
in the success of Molycorp and its smaller domestic rivals.  The complaint to the WTO is justified, but is hardly
certain to succeed. This is a tougher issue than a 2009 case on
broader raw materials that China lost, as Beijing will probably
cite concerns over the environmental impact of rare-earth mining
as reason for restricting exports.  Better to concentrate on increasing non-Chinese supplies.
Representative Mike Coffman, a Republican who represents the
 Colorado  district where Molycorp is based, has been pressing the
Pentagon for years for a report on its rare-earths strategy.
Defense officials, who have  blithely dismissed  the idea of a
rare-earth security threat in the past, are expected to give
Congress a classified briefing on the issue this month.  At the very minimum, the Pentagon needs to have its  Defense
Logistics Agency  conduct an inventory of rare earths on hand and
its potential  needs  over the next five years, and develop a plan
should Beijing officials jack up prices or turn off the supply.
It could also look at long-term purchasing contracts with
Molycorp, smaller U.S. companies and even foreign, non-Chinese
firms like Lynas to assure diversity of supply. These minerals
could eventually be sold off to military contractors and other
manufacturers.  Thirty years ago,  Deng Xiaoping  presciently said: “There
is oil in the  Middle East , there is rare earth in China.” The
U.S. has seen the ill-effects of dependence on Middle Eastern
petroleum. We have a chance to avoid a similar fate with
neodymium.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 