-- Obama’s China Trade Complaint Echoes in U.S. Campaign
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-13T23:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/obama-s-trade-complaint-on-china-echoes-in-election-campaign.html
President  Barack Obama  countered
Republican attacks on his trade record with China by filing a
complaint seeking to stop Beijing’s export limits on rare earth
materials, a policy the president said hurt American
manufacturing jobs.  “You will not get away with skirting the rules,” Obama
said yesterday in front of television cameras at the White
House. While the U.S. prefers “dialogue” on trade issues, “I
will take action if our workers and our businesses are being
subjected to unfair practices,” he said.  The complaint to the  World Trade Organization , in
coordination with the European Union and  Japan , was made the
same day Alabama and Mississippi were holding primary elections
and  Hawaii  was holding caucuses. Republican presidential
candidates, such as former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney,
have accused Obama of failing to stand up to  China ’s rising
economic and military power.  The economy has been a central issue as Obama seeks re-
election. The U.S.  unemployment  rate has been stuck above 8
percent for three years. Polls show voters are concerned about
the loss of  manufacturing jobs  to foreign competition.  The U.S.-China trade deficit widened to $295 billion last
year, spurring calls from some Democrats in Congress as well as
Republicans for stronger action to rebalance the relationship.  Douglas Paal, director of the Asia program at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in Washington, said the
political purpose in Obama’s announcement was “transparent.”  Political Competition  Obama is “trying to look tough on China in the election
because Romney has set himself out to try and out-toughen
Obama,” Paal said.  Romney wrote in the Feb. 16 Wall Street Journal that, if
elected, he would designate China as a currency manipulator on
his first day in office.  Obama is “moving in precisely the wrong direction” on
China and has been “a near supplicant to Beijing,” Romney
wrote.  Obama sought to bolster the case that he has regularly
stood up to China. He said yesterday that his administration has
“brought trade cases against China at nearly twice the rate”
as his predecessor,  George W. Bush .  The Obama administration has filed five WTO complaints
against China since taking office three years ago, compared with
seven Bush filed from 2001, when China joined the Geneva-based
trade arbiter, through the end of his term in January 2009.  Spokesman Denies Politics  Obama’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , denied politics played a
role in the decision. The action on rare earth materials is
consistent with the president’s approach on trade since he took
office, he said.  “We’ve been at this for three years because it’s the right
thing to do,” Carney told reporters at the White House.  Yesterday’s event marked the third time since last month
that Obama has scheduled events that highlighted his concerns
for middle-income Americans on the same day that the Republicans
were holding primaries and caucuses.  On Feb. 28, the same day as primaries in Arizona and
 Michigan , Obama delivered a campaign-style speech to a United
Auto Workers conference to promote the government bailouts of
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  When Republicans were going to polls for the March 6
“Super Tuesday” round of contests, the administration
announced that the Federal Housing Administration would lower
mortgage insurance premiums as part of Obama’s plan to boost the
housing market.  Labor Support  Obama’s re-election was endorsed today by the AFL-CIO, the
largest U.S. labor federation. The group’s president,  Richard Trumka , cited the WTO complaint when asked what Obama needed to
do to win a second term.  “Keep talking about enforcing the trade laws and how he
represents workers and stands for middle class and he’ll get
reelected,” Trumka told reporters at the AFL-CIO’s executive
council meeting in  Orlando ,  Florida .  At issue in the WTO complaint is China’s decision to curb
output and exports of rare earth materials, 17 chemically
similar metallic elements used in products in such as  Boeing Co. (BA) 
helicopter blades,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  cell phones and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
hybrid cars. China produces at least 90 percent of the world’s
rare earth materials.  ‘Election-Year Pressures’  “Few if any trade issues have been as heated in the last
several years as rare earths,” China’s official Xinhua News
Agency wrote yesterday in an unsigned commentary. “It’s
predictable that the  United States  would bring the matter out
under fierce election-year pressures at home.”  The WTO complaint, in which the U.S. is joined with Japan
and the European Union, adds to pressure the U.S. is piling on
China. Obama is calling for efforts to help balance the trade
deficit with the Asian nation and for China to allow the yuan to
appreciate.  The People’s Bank of China yesterday set the currency’s
daily fixing 0.04 percent stronger at 6.3259 per dollar after
weakening it by 0.33 percent the day before, the most since
August 2010.  The resolution of the WTO case may take two to three years,
said Jeremie Waterman, senior policy adviser for  Asia  at the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business lobbying
group.  Waterman said he supports the complaint and rejects the
idea that the move is political. Still, he added, “We should
have no illusions that this is a panacea.”  ‘Restrict Production’  “China could continue to have the ability to restrict
future supply, assuming it moves forward with ongoing efforts to
consolidate and restrict production, in a way that can impact
foreign companies,” he said.  In response to yesterday’s announcement, China may
“retaliate in a way that’s proportional, without throwing down
the gauntlet,” said  Charles Kupchan , professor of international
affairs at  Georgetown University  in Washington and a senior
fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.  The Chinese will understand the political pressure Obama
faces and “neither side wants a big row right now,” he said.  “It is perhaps a desirable place for picking a fight
precisely because it’s not an issue with huge economic
implications, and in that sense the case slaps China on the
wrist but minimizes the risk of tit-for-tat protectionism,”
Kupchan said.  The WTO complaint “is very nice rhetoric” that Obama
“can refer to a thousand times on the campaign trail and at
fundraisers that plays with blue collar workers who are very
disgruntled with Obama,” Paal said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  