-- Obama’s Wine List Corked After $100-Plus Bottle Served
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-13T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/obama-transparency-scaled-back-when-it-comes-to-wine-list-at-state-dinner.html
When British Prime Minister  David Cameron  visits President  Barack Obama  this week, one detail may
stay bottled up: the labels on the wines the White House pours
at the state dinner tomorrow night.  For Obama’s first three state dinners, honoring the leaders
of  India , Mexico and China, the White House released the name,
year and appellation of wines -- all-American -- paired with
each course.  Part of a tradition observed by previous presidents,
including  George W. Bush , that disclosure stopped after Obama’s
dinner last year for Chinese President  Hu Jintao . One of the
wines served on Jan. 19, 2011, was a top-rated 2005 Cabernet
Sauvignon from Washington state that originally sold for $115 a
bottle and went for as much as $399 by the time of the dinner.
The price the White House paid per bottle was not made public.  At the next state dinner, on June 7, 2011, for German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , the menu made public by the White
House didn’t include details on the wines.  “An American wine will be paired with each course,”
stated a note at the bottom of the menu released by the White
House. So went as well the menu released for the Korean State
Dinner honoring President Lee Myung-Bak on Oct. 13, 2011.  Tyler Colman, who writes the Dr. Vino wine blog and teaches
at  New York University , said in an interview that the shift in
menu protocol may reflect political considerations given the
sluggish  U.S. economy .  “They’re probably sensitive to displays of wealth at a
time when the economy is not firing on all cylinders,” said
Colman, whose blog had noted the absence of wines on the German
state dinner menu the White House released.  No ‘Picnic’  Still, keeping the wine list under wraps undercuts
promotion of U.S. winemakers at a time when markets in
developing nations such as  China  have potential to be “really
hot” for U.S. labels because of the rising middle- and upper-
income classes, he said.  A state dinner “isn’t a picnic or casual get-together,”
and it’s justifiable from diplomatic and trade standpoints for
the White House to spend money to showcase fine American wines,
Colman said.  Dorothy Gaiter, wine and food editor for the quarterly
France Magazine and a former wine columnist for the Wall Street
Journal, said Obama was private about his wine preferences
before his election.  ‘Good for America’  If the Obama White House has decided to stop publicizing
which American wines are served at official events, she said,
“I don’t understand this. It’s good for America.”  Rick Small is co-owner of the Woodward Canyon winery in
Lowden,  Washington , whose 2009 Chardonnay was among the wines
poured for the German dinner.  He and his wife noticed the shift because they had gotten
billing on the menu when their wine was served at a Clinton
administration dinner. He said he didn’t know why the practice
was changed and that it probably does help the industry overall
to have U.S. wines publicized by name.  At the same time, Small said, it’s an honor to be chosen at
all. “You’re not going to get pushy about it since they picked
your wine,” he said.  The White House declined to comment for this article or to
make available Daniel Shanks, the usher who has managed wine
selection since the Clinton administration, or social secretary
Jeremy Bernard. First Lady  Michelle Obama ’s office referred
questions to the White House press office.  No Disclosure  White House deputy press secretary  Josh Earnest  declined to
disclose which wines were served at the German or Korean state
dinners, identify wines from non-state dinners, make menus of
past meals available for inspection or answer questions about
the shift in practice.  Earnest also declined to say whether the White House would
release the names of wines at the Cameron dinner.  The White House has promoted its release of other documents
and data. On March 8, it announced a website,  www.ethics.gov , to
expand access to government databases tracking White House
visitor records, lobbying disclosures and Federal Election
Commission reports.  “From the day he took office, the president committed his
administration to work towards unprecedented openness in
government,” said the official statement announcing the site.  At the state dinner for Hu, the 2005 Quilceda Creek
 Cabernet Sauvignon  Columbia Valley from Washington state, one of
the wines poured that night, was $115 a bottle at release, the
winery’s general manager, John Ware said in an interview.  Turning Point  The wine earned a rare 100-point rating from wine critic
Robert Parker. By the time of the White House dinner, Ware said,
it sold for $300-$350. It was listed for as much as $399 per
bottle, according to wine websites.  Ware said the winery was approached by the White House and
asked to choose which of its wines to serve. The price the
winery charged the White House was “closer to the $115” than
to $399, Ware said, while declining to name the price.  Afterward, he said, the winery’s profile in  Asia  got a
“pretty significant” boost.  The White House selection drew derision.  The day after the Hu dinner, the anti-Obama website Gateway
Pundit carried a posting entitled, “Sacrifice Is For the Little
People... Obama White House Serves $399 Bottles of Wine at State
Dinner.”  Comedian Stephen Colbert said that, given the  U.S. debt 
held by China, the Hu dinner “should have been a sweatpants-
potluck with box wine and a sleeve of Oreos.”  Social Secretaries  Other changes were taking place at the White House at the
time. Between the Chinese and German state dinners, the White
House changed social secretaries, hiring Bernard that February.  Since the start of his presidency, aides also have avoided
endorsing specific brands such as which golf clubs Obama favors.  Not all wines served by the administration are shielded. At
Vice President Joe Biden’s dinner last month for Chinese Vice
President  Xi Jinping , the list included a 2010 Sauvignon Blanc
and 2009 Cabernet Sauvignon from the Hall winery in  California ’s
Napa Valley. The wines sell for $22.99 and $48.99 per bottle,
respectively, on the wine.com website. Vintner Kathryn Hall was
U.S. ambassador to  Austria  during the Clinton administration.
She didn’t return calls for comment.  Wine has been regularly served at the Executive Residence
since 1800, except from 1877-1881 under President Rutherford B.
Hayes, Shanks wrote in 2007 for an article for the Journal of
the White House Historical Association.  Kennedy and Nixon  In the 20th century, John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon were
known for their familiarity with French wine. The policy of
serving American wine took hold in Lyndon Johnson’s
administration, according to an article in last month’s Wine
Spectator.  Ronald Reagan , a former actor and California
governor, raised the profile of his home state’s wines.  Ulises Valdez, 42, of the Valdez Family Winery and Tasting
Room in Cloverdale, California, said he is “still celebrating”
having his 2008 Silver Eagle Vineyard Chardonnay served at the
White House for the  Mexico  state dinner on May 19, 2010.  Valdez snuck into the U.S., from Mexico, as a teenager and
found work picking grapes. He got amnesty during the Reagan
administration. Today he owns a vineyard management company and
the winery. “This is the beauty of the U.S. --if you’re a hard
worker and good and honest you can do it,” he said.  White House menus can be a point of pride and business
builder for individual vintners whose wines are chosen.  China Sales ‘Quadrupled’  Kerry Murphy, proprietor of DuMOL Wines in Orinda,
California, whose wines have been served at the White House
since 2002, said he’s become a collector. “God knows how many
menus I have -- I love ’em,”  he said.  “I’ve been blessed by the association,” Murphy said. “It
sets the wine to high standards,” he said, because the White
House “can buy whatever they want.”  His Chardonnays sell for $50-$60 per bottle.  After his 2008 Russian River Chardonnay was served at the
Hu dinner, he said, “our sales in China quadrupled.”  “I think that has a lot to do just with exposure from that
one dinner,” he said. ’’It makes me feel good because we’ve got
some dollars coming back’’ to the U.S. from China. “That’s a
patriotic thing in itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  