-- Obama Vows to ‘Spare No Effort’ on Afghan Shooting Case
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-14T04:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/obama-vows-full-inquiry-into-killings-of-afghan-civilians-by-u-s-soldier.html
President  Barack Obama  promised to
“spare no effort” to fully investigate the killings of at
least 16 Afghan civilians, allegedly at the hands of a U.S. Army
staff sergeant.  Obama said he promised Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  that
he takes the matter “as seriously as if it were our own
citizens and our own children who were murdered.''  “It’s not who we are as a country, and it does not
represent our military,” Obama said yesterday at the White
House. Anyone involved must be held “fully accountable with the
full force of the law.”  The killings may complicate U.S.-Afghan talks on terms by
which some U.S. forces might remain there after 2014. Tensions
rose, and riots erupted, after the burning of Korans in a trash
dump at a U.S. base last month. The killings also may drain
remaining U.S. and European support for the war and add pressure
to speed troop withdrawals.  The Army Criminal Investigative Command is investigating
the killings and seeking a motive.  The U.S. military was holding the suspect, whose name
wasn’t released, on a base at Kandahar,  Afghanistan ’s second-
largest city, as Afghan lawmakers and street protesters demanded
that he be tried in their nation’s courts.  A preliminary hearing determined there was probable cause
to keep the suspect confined beyond 48 hours, U.S. Army
Lieutenant Colonel Jimmie Cummings Jr., a NATO spokesman in
Kabul, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Trained as Sniper  The emerging picture of the Army sergeant was of a man worn
by the chaos of service in two wars that lack clear front lines
and alliances. The sergeant was on his first tour of duty in
Afghanistan after three tours in Iraq, Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said March 12.  The suspect is 38 years old and is married with two
children, according to a U.S. defense official familiar with the
case. The serviceman joined the Army shortly after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, before he had children, the official said.  He trained as an infantryman and was a qualified sniper,
according to the official. The alleged gunman’s job in
Afghanistan was providing “force protection” for a Special
Forces compound, said a second defense official. The officials
spoke on condition of anonymity because charges haven’t been
filed in the case.  Family Moved  The most recent of the soldier’s three tours in  Iraq  ended
in 2010, and he was re-deployed to Afghanistan on Dec. 3, an
official said.  The soldier suffered a head injury in Iraq due to a non-
combat vehicle rollover accident, recovered and was deemed fit
for deployment, one of the officials said.  The soldier’s wife and two children have been moved from
off-base housing to inside Joint Base Lewis-McChord in
Washington state, the soldier’s home base, for their safety, the
official said.  The attack happened in Panjwai, a plain stretching
southwest from Kandahar city that is densely dotted with
villages whose mullahs helped found the  Taliban movement  in
1994. The district has remained a Taliban stronghold since
NATO’s  International Security Assistance Force , or ISAF, took
control in heavy fighting in 2006.  Location of Attacks  The soldier hiked to one village 800 meters (0.5 miles)
south of his base and then to another village 500 meters north
of the base to commit the killings, the Army said March 12 in a
memo to Congress.  Kandahar provincial Governor Touryalai Wesa and two
brothers of Karzai visited the villages attacked by the soldier
yesterday. Taliban guerrillas fired on a mosque as they met
relatives of victims, Ahmad Jawid Faisal, a provincial
government spokesman, said by phone. An Afghan soldier guarding
the delegation was injured, he said.  Sayeed Mohammed Akhund, a lawmaker from Kandahar, said in a
phone interview that legislators want the American soldier tried
in an Afghan court, and hundreds of university students echoed
the demand in a street protest yesterday in the eastern Afghan
city of Jalalabad.  “The demonstrators want the shooter to be prosecuted as
soon as possible in an Afghan court and even want him to receive
the death penalty,” General Abdullah Stanekzai, a police
commander in the city, said by phone.  Military Justice  The U.S. retains legal jurisdiction for prosecutions of
U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan under a U.S.-Afghan accord,
according to a Jan. 5, 2011 report by the  Congressional Research
Service .  The sergeant suspected in the killings could face the death
penalty, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told reporters traveling
with him to Kyrgyzstan. “My understanding is, in these
instances, that could be a consideration,” he said.  The U.S Manual for Courts-Martial, the guidebook for
military justice, says mental impairment may be used as an
“affirmative defense” if “the accused, as a result of a
severe mental disease or defect, was unable to appreciate the
nature and quality or the wrongfulness of his or her acts.”  Obama said he and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , with
whom he will be meeting today, will “consult about the way
forward” in Afghanistan as they prepare for a summit of North
Atlantic Treaty Organization leaders in  Chicago  in May.  Troop Drawdowns  “The White House is not currently reviewing options for
further troop withdrawals and no decisions have been made,”
Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for Obama’s National Security Council,
said in an e-mail. “The president will make decisions on
further drawdowns at the appropriate time based on our interests
and in consultation with our Allies and Afghan partners.”  Cameron told reporters on board a flight to  Washington 
yesterday there is a public desire to wrap up the Afghanistan
mission.  “I think people want an endgame,” he said. “They want to
know that our troops are going to come home, they have been
there a very long time. So that the British public, our troops
and the Afghan government, frankly, know there’s an end to
this.”  Obama’s troop-withdrawal timetable won support yesterday
from U.S. Senate leaders.  “I support the policy the administration has laid out to
move toward a transition over the next couple of years,” Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, told
reporters. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
agreed that “we should stick by the timeline that we have.”  Republican Reaction  Republican presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich  said on
CBS’s “Face the Nation” on March 11 that it’s time for the
U.S. to withdraw from Afghanistan.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a
South Carolina Republican, yesterday criticized such statements
as “the drumbeat of withdrawal.”  “I want to be part of a  Republican Party  that understands
the consequences of winning and losing in Afghanistan,” Graham
said.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , the California Democrat who heads
the Senate Intelligence Committee, called for a swift
investigation and said the outcome may affect calls for U.S.
withdrawal.  “You have to ask what is going on,” she said. “Until you
get an answer to that, you really can’t answer whether we should
just get out now or stick to it and wait.”  Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the top Republican on the
Senate Armed Services Committee who opposes an early withdrawal,
said Obama hasn’t done a good enough job defending the
military’s mission.  “He could be talking about the success that we’ve
enjoyed,” McCain said. “Instead it’s all about how we’re going
to withdraw.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  