-- Obama Needs to Go Whole Mile on Iran Diplomacy: Vali Nasr
-- B y   V a l i   N a s r
-- 2012-03-13T23:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/obama-need-to-go-whole-mile-on-iran-diplomacy-vali-nasr.html
Last week, President  Barack Obama 
skillfully shifted the debate on Iran, pushing back against
“idle talk of war” and making the case for diplomacy.  To make it work, the U.S. now needs a clear road map to
show allies and the American people how serious and sustained
talks with Iran can bear fruit.  Since November, the administration’s policy of applying
pressure to compel Iran to negotiate has rushed instead toward
conflict. A worrying International Atomic Energy Agency  report 
on Iran’s nuclear activity in that month prompted a new round of
crippling sanctions against Iran’s central bank and oil
industry. Iran responded by threatening to close the  Strait of
Hormuz  and cut off oil sales to parts of  Europe .  Israel  and the
U.S. administration’s Republican critics concluded that the one-
two punch of sanctions and talks wasn’t working, and it was time
to go to war.  The president stood his ground to get the pressure-and-talk
strategy back on track, and there are some hopeful signs that he
did the right thing. Iranian Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  endorsed Obama’s defense of diplomacy, describing the
U.S. president’s talk of a window of opportunity as “good
words.” He also repeated his 1995 fatwa that building nuclear
weapons is a “great sin.”  Clear Signal  This was meant as a clear signal to the international
community that Iran would not cross Obama’s red line. Equally
important, Khamenei’s intervention put an end to talk inside
Iran that the country should now build nuclear weapons to
protect itself against further Western pressure and any
potential military attack. The fatwa and a straightforward
letter from Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili ,
declaring Iran’s readiness to resume talks has given the U.S.
administration hope that this time, diplomacy may succeed. After
all, the environment for the talks today is better than at any
other time since Obama took office in 2009. Economic pressure on
Iran is cutting to the bone, and a grave crisis looms if things
don’t change.  At the same time, Iran’s parliamentary elections on March 2
to some extent repaired the political damage that Khamenei
suffered in the 2009 election fiasco, when Iranian authorities
jailed opposition leaders and violently suppressed large-scale
protests against ballot-box fraud. The appearance of normality
on voting day this month and the mandate Khamenei received when
his supporters trounced those of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
have left the supreme leader stronger. Ahmadinejad’s drubbing
means there is now only one decision maker in Tehran --- and to
everyone’s relief, it is not Ahmadinejad.  But the window for negotiations is narrow. Whatever Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  may have agreed to in his
recent meeting with the U.S. president, in public he offered no
endorsement of diplomacy. Obama’s critics on the right will look
for the slightest opening to dismiss diplomacy as having failed
and again push for war. Doing so would have the added benefit
for them of potentially driving up  oil prices  at the cost of the
fragile U.S. economic recovery, on which the outcome of the
election hinges. Obama can protect diplomacy from politics, but
only if he sees tangible gains early on.  Iranian leaders look eager to give Obama enough to keep the
hawks at bay. They also fear, however, that if they concede too
much too early, officials in Washington may conclude that what
works isn’t diplomacy but pressure, and so they would be
inclined to pile more of it on.  Follow the Map  Dennis Ross , who oversaw Obama’s  Iran  policy until late
last year acknowledges a U.S. endgame in which “Iran can have
civilian nuclear power, but it must not have nuclear weapons.”
If the supreme leader’s fatwa is any guide, Iran would be fine
with such an outcome, but only if the U.S. and its allies are
willing to accept Iran’s right to enrich nuclear fuel. To get
from where we are to that point, talks would have to follow a
road map that makes clear the sequence of issues to be discussed
and agreements to be reached in building toward a mutually
acceptable result. Without such a road map, the U.S. will end up
relying on pressure, triggering Iranian obduracy -- and we will
be back where we started.  Iran has already agreed to the Russian proposal, according
to which Iran would address concerns of the international
community one by one, each time in exchange for the lifting of a
sanction. Iran’s leadership is interested in the idea, because
it protects them from a scenario in which Iran is expected to
make all the concessions upfront and is promised the benefits at
the end. Iran would see this as a trap.  The U.S. has rejected the “step-by-step” approach because
small concessions are reversible. As sanctions are lifted, Iran
might feel less compelled to provide further concessions. In
effect, such a piecemeal process would go only so far and then
collapse under the weight of its own success.  Even so, there has to be credible reciprocity to build
trust and create momentum in the talks. Trading a temporary
freeze on  uranium enrichment  for a temporary freeze on oil
sanctions serves as a useful first step. But with the full
weight of sanctions yet to bear on Iran, the U.S. has the
greatest leverage right now. It should use it to get Iran to
talk about big concessions in exchange for meaningful reductions
in sanctions.  Officials in  Washington  would like Iran to suspend the
enrichment of uranium to the 20 percent level and to hand over
its stockpiles of 20 percent enriched uranium. Instead, Iran
would buy the fuel rods it needs for medical isotopes from
abroad. In exchange, Iran’s right to enrich uranium up to 3
percent to 5 percent should be formally recognized -- that would
be sufficient for a civilian nuclear-power program, but not for
bomb making. Iran should also agree to intrusive international
inspections and implement the IAEA’s Additional Protocol, giving
the U.S. and its allies a measure of confidence that Iran isn’t
working its centrifuges overtime to create weapons-grade fuel.  Lift Sanctions  The U.S. and its European allies, for their part, would
need to be ready to lift significant sanctions. The U.S.,
separately, must be open to starting bilateral talks with Iran
about regional security and the future of U.S.-Iran relations.
Iran’s perception of opportunity and threat in its neighborhood
is the principal reason it has invested its national security in
the pursuit of nuclear capability.  How Iran has acted in the region is also a big reason why
U.S. sees  Iran’s nuclear program  as a threat to peace and
security in the  Middle East . But Iran will not drop its nuclear
ambitions unless it feels secure in the region. That is
something the U.S. can address, and it is why talking to Iran
about its nuclear program cannot be divorced from a broader
conversation about regional security.  (Vali Nasr is a Bloomberg View columnist, a professor of
international politics at the Fletcher School of Law and
Diplomacy at  Tufts University  and a senior fellow in foreign
policy at the  Brookings Institution . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Vali Nasr at  vali.nasr@tufts.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 