-- Obama in Poll Wins More Americans Than Not Saying They’re Better
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-03-13T08:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/obama-in-poll-winning-more-americans-than-not-asserting-they-re-better-off.html
The U.S. public’s economic outlook
is turning from fear to hope with the presidential election
campaign under way.  More than twice as many Americans view the economy’s
prospects as brightening as see them darkening, a reversal from
nine months ago, when more people expected deterioration ahead,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted March 8-11.  “It’s starting to get better,” says survey respondent
Kelsey Simeon, 21, a mechanical-engineering student at
 California State University , Sacramento, in a follow-up
interview. “Strip malls that were empty are starting to fill
up. Everyone’s going out to eat more. People are spending more
money on non-necessities: clothes and iPods.”  More Americans now say they are personally better off since
President  Barack Obama  took office than worse off, the first
favorable reading for the president on that question since
Bloomberg began asking in December 2010.  Thirty-eight percent say they are better off while 36
percent say they’re worse off. In September, the last time that
question was asked, only 27 percent said they were better off
and 44 percent said worse off.  While Republicans attack Obama over rising gasoline prices,
Americans don’t primarily blame the White House. Sixty-six
percent place more responsibility on  oil companies  and Middle
East nations taking advantage of tensions with  Iran . Only 23
percent say the White House is more at fault. Even Republicans
put more blame on oil companies and Mideast governments, 49
percent compared to 45 percent who point at the administration.  Still Wrong Track  The sour public mood of recent years about the country’s
general path also has eased somewhat: 31 percent say the U.S. is
headed in the right direction, the most in a year and a half and
an 11-point uptick since last September.  Americans are still far from content, with 61 percent
saying the U.S. is moving in the wrong direction. That reading
is about the same as in October 2010, the month before
Republicans rode a wave of discontent to take control of the
U.S. House from the Democrats in congressional elections.  Wariness dominates feelings about the economy. Asked their
view, 45 percent say they are cautious, 37 percent hopeful and
17 percent fearful. Last June, 51 percent responded cautious, 23
percent hopeful and 25 percent fearful.  Optimism in Suburbs  Economic hope is more pronounced among suburban residents,
41 percent, and non-whites, 46 percent. An optimistic outlook is
less common among married women with children, with 31 percent
saying they’re hopeful; men without college degrees, 32 percent;
and households with children under 18, 32 percent.  The elderly have the most positive economic outlook and the
young the least, with 44 percent of Americans age 65 and older
seeing signs of improvement versus 31 percent of those under 35.
Attitudes toward the economy also closely track political views,
with 68 percent of Democrats hopeful, along with 29 percent of
independents and 19 percent of Republicans.  The economy strengthened late last year as growth
accelerated from a 1.3 percent annual pace in the second quarter
to 3 percent in the final three months of the year. Unemployment
has dropped in five of the past six months, to 8.3 percent in
February from 9.1 percent last August. The benchmark  Standard &
Poor’s 500 (SPX)  stock index is up more than 9 percent this year.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort  Index (COMFCOMF)  for the week ended
March 4, its most recent reading, hit a four-year high. For a
fifth straight week, half of those surveyed also rated their
personal finances as positive.  Racial Divide  In the Bloomberg poll, readings on the economy and country
are divided along racial, as well as partisan, lines.  The racial gulf over economic progress during the Obama
presidency is deep. More whites say their personal situation has
deteriorated than improved, by 42 percent to 30 percent. Among
non-whites, 55 percent say they are better off and only 23
percent say their situation is worse.  Even so, employment opportunities have rebounded more for
whites than other groups. Unemployment  for whites  was 7.3
percent in February, down from a peak of 9.3 percent in October
2009 and 7.1 percent when Obama took office. Unemployment for
blacks was 14.1 percent in February. The nation’s 8.3 percent
 unemployment rate  in February compares with 10 percent in
October 2009 and 7.8 percent at Obama’s inauguration.  White House Advantage  The White House has an advantage over Republicans in its
core economic message. Asked the better way to promote growth,
51 percent favor  government investment  in infrastructure,
education and alternative energy, a theme often sounded by
Obama. Forty-one percent prefer reductions in taxes and
 government spending , a rallying cry of Republicans.  The edge was less-pronounced among political independents,
with 50 percent favoring investment compared with 43 percent who
choose spending cuts. Whites divide on the question, with
government investments favored by 46 percent to 45 percent.  The administration’s economic message resonates with
support across a range of demographic groups considered swing
political constituencies, including suburban independents and
men without college degrees.  Elderly Americans prefer spending cuts with 50 percent
support over 37 percent favoring government investment.  Unemployment and jobs remains the dominant concern of
Americans, cited by 42 percent, followed by the federal deficit,
chosen by 21 percent and  gasoline  prices, 11 percent.  Public Favors Drilling  While Americans don’t accept the argument that Obama is to
blame for rising gasoline prices, the Republican message of
expanded domestic oil drilling and exploration has more
credibility as a way to reduce U.S. dependency on foreign oil.
Forty-nine percent of poll respondents back that approach
compared with 46 percent who prefer expanded development of
alternative fuels and conservation.  There is a deep generational divide on energy. Fifty-nine
percent of Americans under 35 say alternative fuels and
conservation offer the best course for energy independence while
the same 59 percent majority of people 65 and older favor more
oil drilling.  Americans are growing less pessimistic about real estate:
46 percent say they expect home values in their area to return
to pre-recession levels within five years, up from 41 percent
who thought so last September.  Public opinion of Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
has dropped to the lowest level since Bloomberg began measuring
it in September 2009. Twenty-seven percent of Americans view him
favorably against 31 percent with an unfavorable opinion. Still,
the largest number, 42 percent, say they aren’t sure of their
opinion of the central banker.  The poll of 1,002 adults was conducted by Selzer & Co., a
 Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 