-- Obama Gives U.K.’s Cameron a Taste of NCAA Bracketology
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-03-14T01:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/obama-gives-u-k-s-cameron-a-taste-of-ncaa-bracketology.html
It’s an official visit between two
longtime allies, so naturally U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
is brushing up on his brackets.  Cameron arrived in Washington today for meetings and a
state dinner at the White House tomorrow. First things first,
President  Barack Obama  flew him to Dayton,  Ohio , for a uniquely
American experience: the first game of the men’s college
basketball tournament.  Cameron, whose sporting tastes run more toward hunting and
horse racing, told reporters traveling with him that he’s been
brushing up on the rules of basketball. It was his first time at
a game.  He’s also being introduced to the peculiarities of the
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament, in which 68
teams compete in rounds of games, known as brackets, that winnow
the field down to two teams that will compete for the
championship April 2 in  New Orleans . The brackets are fodder for
office pools and online contests across the U.S.  “I’m being briefed about bracketology,” Cameron said.  Obama’s invitation to the U.K. leader to join him on Air
Force One for a flight to Ohio, then watch the game and conduct
a television interview, is a respite from a lengthy list of
issues, such as the war in  Afghanistan  and efforts to halt
 Iran ’s nuclear program. Cameron is the first foreign leader to
travel with Obama aboard Air Force One, the modified  Boeing Co. (BA) 
747 jet used by the president.  ‘Male Bonding’  “Male bonding? Exactly,” said  Heather Conley , senior
fellow and director of the Europe program at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington . “The
personal relationship -- you can’t quantify it but it’s really,
really important.”  The trip conveys a message, Conley said, that “Obama has
strong relations and he uses them to ensure strong support” for
U.S. foreign policy.  It may not hurt that the game is in Ohio, a swing state
Obama won with 51.4 percent of the vote in the 2008 election.  Obama, 50, and Cameron, 45, attended the first-round game
in Dayton between Mississippi Valley State University and
Western  Kentucky  University. The president stood for a courtside
interview with Cameron by CBS Sports’ college basketball analyst
Clark Kellogg.  Game Analysis  Obama gave a bit of first half analysis -- “Both teams are
shooting terribly” -- and said he was glad to bring Cameron to
the middle of the country during his U.S. visit.  “Sometimes when we have foreign visitors they only see the
coasts,” Obama said.  Cameron said the game is “pretty fast and furious,”
making it sometimes difficult to follow the referees’ calls. He
said Britain is set to welcome basketball players and other
athletes for the Summer Olympics.  “We’re going to be rolling out the red carpet,” he said.
“Everything’s on time, on budget.”  Western Kentucky tonight defeated Mississippi Valley State,
59 to 58, kicking off three weeks of basketball games known as
March Madness. The University of Kentucky is favored by Las
Vegas odds makers to win the NCAA Division I men’s national
championship.  Obama often spends free time shooting hoops on weekends at
the Interior Department or Fort McNair, or watches his daughter
Sasha play basketball. And every year he’s been in office, the
president has selected his brackets for the NCAA tournament on
ESPN, the sports cable channel owned by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   Obama’s Picks  Obama picked the University of Kentucky,  Ohio State
University , the University of Missouri and the University of
 North Carolina  to reach semi-final round known as the final
four, ESPN reported. Obama will release his brackets at 9 a.m.
Washington time tomorrow.  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor who is a
leading contender for the Republican presidential nomination,
said he won’t be filling out brackets.  “I’m not plugged in well enough this year to do that,” he
told reporters traveling with him today.  The five hours or so that Obama and Cameron will spend away
from Washington represent an investment of time that can help
cement relations between two leaders who already share the bonds
of history, defense and the economy. Obama’s also reciprocating
after his own trip to  London  in May 2011.  “It’s publicizing the visit of a foreign leader to a very
different demographic to a different part of the country that
may or may not be watching what’s going on in Washington,”
Conley said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  