-- Lock In U.S. Bill Rates at Eight-Month High, LPL Financial Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-13T17:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/lock-in-bill-rates-at-8-month-high-lpl-financial-says.html
Investors should lock in Treasury
bill rates that have soared to an eight-month high by purchasing
the debt and holding it until maturity, according to  LPL
Financial .   Three-month (USGG3M)  Treasury bill rates touched 0.1170 percent on
Feb. 14, the highest level since June, as the government
increased issuance of short-term debt before the April tax
deadline and overnight money-market rates rose. The three-month
bill rate was at 0.0763 percent today, up from this year’s low
of zero, first touched Jan. 10. The  six-month  Treasury bill rate
was at 0.1420 percent, almost at the 2012 high of 0.1475 percent
set on Feb. 14 and up from this year’s low of 0.0254 percent,
set Jan. 11.  “It makes sense for investors to try to lock in for a
longer period of time the recent rise in rates,” said Anthony Valeri, a San Diego-based market strategist specializing in
fixed income at LPL Financial, which oversees $330 billion, in a
telephone interview. “The rise in bill yields is likely to
prove temporary as the  Federal Reserve  isn’t preparing to raise
its target rate and the supply-demand trends that supported the
rise will end.”  Valeri began recommending that clients purchase bills with
a focus on three- and six-month maturities in a note to clients
published March 8.  “The Treasury’s use of special cash-management bills this
quarter increased supply and helped push yields higher,” said
Valeri in the interview.  Cash-Management Bills  The U.S. Treasury Department on Feb. 28 auctioned $20
billion in cash-management bills, which are used to help bridge
short-term borrowing. Treasury debt issuance peaks from February
through May as the government pays tax refunds.  Treasury bill rates have also been supported by rising
repurchase agreements and overnight federal fund rates. Rates on
overnight  repurchase agreements , or repos, increased because of
an influx of collateral as the Fed replaced $400 billion of
shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt
under the program known as Operation Twist, due to end in June.
The Fed’s 21 primary dealers  held  $52.60 billion of coupon debt
with maturities of as much as three years as of Feb. 29,
central-bank data show, compared with $1.8 billion Oct. 5.  The average  rate for borrowing  and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.2 percent yesterday, according
to index data provided by Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., the
parent of Fixed Income Clearing Corp. That was up from minus
0.001 percent on Dec. 30.  Repo Transactions  The DTCC index is a weighted average of all general
collateral repo transactions during a day. About $3.6 trillion
in repo transactions is processed daily by the DTCC.  The surge in repo rates has lifted the federal funds rate
further above the base of the central bank’s zero to 0.25
percent target range this year. The overnight federal funds
 effective  rate was 0.12 percent yesterday, up from 0.04 percent
at the end of last year. The effective rate is a volume-weighted
average on trades by major brokers published daily by the New
York Fed.  “These money-market rates are all tied together, but you
will likely have Treasury bill rates come down in the months
ahead while repo rates may remain elevated,” Valeri said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  