-- Modiin Jumps Most in Five Months on Gabriella Find
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-03-13T14:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/modiin-jumps-most-in-5-months-on-gabrielle-find-tel-aviv-mover.html
(Corrects name of field in headline.)  Modiin-LP (MDINL)  gained the most in almost
five months after a report said the oil and gas explorer’s
Gabriella site has a “reasonable chance of being commercial.”  The  shares  jumped 10 percent, the biggest intraday gain
since Oct. 25, to 0.346 shekel at 2:50 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  Shemen
Oil and Gas Resources Ltd. , which has a license south of
Gabriella,  advanced  5.8 percent to 0.163 shekel.  Modiin said a Netherland, Sewell report on the Block
378/Gabriella site in the Mediterranean, 24 kilometers (14.9
miles) North-West of Tel Aviv, has best estimate gas contingent
resources of 110.1 billion cubic feet and best estimate oil
contingent resources of 110.1 million barrels. Modiin said it
expects drilling to start by the end of 2012 and that it will
subsequently “quickly proceed” to produce and market the oil
to the local market.  “What is significant here is that appears it will be
commercially viable to produce the oil,” Eran Yunger, an
analyst for Migdal Capital Markets in  Tel Aviv  said today by
phone. “The quantities found could satisfy local consumption of
oil for the next year to two years.”  Modiin holds a 70 percent stake in the license, while Adira
Energy Israel Ltd. owns 15 percent, according to a statement
issued by Modiin today.  “Investors believe that if there is oil potential at the
Gabriella site it raises the chances of finding oil at the
Shemen site,” Yaron Zer, an analyst at Clal Finance Brokerage
Ltd. said by phone today. “What remains to be seen is how much
of the Gabriella oil will be able to be produced and what will
be the daily production rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  