-- Oil Advances From One-Week Low on U.S. Economy
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-13T12:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/oil-gains-from-one-week-low-on-speculation-economy-to-boost-fuel-demand.html
Oil rebounded from the lowest price
in almost a week as investors bet that fuel demand may increase
amid signs the U.S. and Chinese economies are strengthening.  Futures gained as much as 0.7 percent in  New York  after
losing 1 percent yesterday. U.S. retail sales rose in February
by the most in five months, a Commerce Department report today
showed.  China ’s industrial output growth will pick up in March
and April, a former industry minister said. Oil has climbed this
year on concern that tension with  Iran  may lead to military
conflict in the  Middle East , where more than half the world’s
oil reserves are located.  “Oil prices have been bolstered by better-than-expected
leading indicators and ample liquidity,” said  Hannes Loacker ,
an analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  in Vienna who
predicts U.S. futures will average $104 a barrel this year.
“Chinese economic growth should be strong enough to prevent the
oil price from falling too sharply.”  Oil for April delivery rose as much as 79 cents to $107.13
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $106.88 at 12:36 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday fell $1.06 to $106.34, the lowest settlement
since March 7. Prices are 8.1 percent higher this year.  Brent crude  for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was up 57 cents, or 0.5 percent, at
$125.91. The European benchmark contract was at a  premium  of
$19.03 to New York crude. The spread close at $19 yesterday, the
most since Feb. 6.  U.S., China Economy  U.S. retail sales advanced 1.1 percent in February after a
0.4 percent gain in January, the Commerce Department said today.
That was in line with the  median estimate  of 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. China’s slowdown in industrial
production in the first two months of the year was due to
seasonality and government controls,  Li Yizhong  said while
attending legislative meetings in Beijing.  The U.S. and China are the world’s biggest oil consumers,
accounting for about 32 percent of global demand in 2010,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  “The market will be comforted by an ongoing story of
reasonable growth in the U.S.,” said Ric Spooner, a chief
market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The retail sales
figures will be keenly watched. The geopolitical risk is
certainly a major factor that is clearly preventing prices from
falling too far at this stage.”  U.S. gasoline inventories probably fell  1 million barrels 
last week, according to the median estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News before an Energy Department report
tomorrow. Distillate supplies, including diesel and heating oil,
probably dropped 1.4 million barrels and crude stockpiles rose
1.9 million, the survey showed.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release its own stockpile data in  Washington  today.  ‘High Side’  Crude prices are “on the high side,” Mohamed Al-Hamli,
the United Arab Emirates’ energy minister, said in Kuwait
yesterday at the International Energy Forum. The IEF is a
gathering of energy officials and companies from producing and
consuming countries that takes place every two years.  Prices are “a bit high” and should be at $100 a barrel,
Oman’s Oil Minister Mohammed Al-Rumhy said yesterday in an
interview in Kuwait. Angolan Oil Minister Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos told reporters that international politics are
pushing up the price of oil, and that the African nation would
prefer to see Brent at $110 to $115 a barrel.  U.S. exports of gasoline, diesel and other fuels will more
than double in the next three years as refiners take advantage
of a growing supply of domestic crudes and ship more fuel to
 emerging markets , according to research firm Wood Mackenzie Ltd.  Exports will rise by 450,000 barrels a day by 2015 as
domestic demand shrinks and more products are sent to Latin
America,  Africa  and other regions where fuel use is increasing,
Alan Gelder, head of downstream consulting at Edinburgh-based
Wood Mackenzie, said during a presentation at an American Fuel
and Petrochemical Manufacturers conference in San Diego.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  