-- Oil Rises as Retail Sales Increase, Equities Advance
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-03-13T21:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/oil-falls-on-speculation-fed-won-t-provide-more-easing-after-retail-sales.html
Oil rose after U.S. retail sales
increased by the most in five months and equities gained,
signaling economic growth and higher demand.  Prices advanced 0.4 percent as retail sales rose 1.1
percent in February, the Commerce Department said. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  reached the highest level in four years. Oil
pared gains as the dollar strengthened against the euro after
the  Federal Reserve  raised its assessment of the economy and
refrained from new actions to lower borrowing costs.  “Prices were higher as we had some positive economic
data,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “The Fed is
saying that there will be no additional stimulus.”  Oil for April delivery rose 37 cents to settle at $106.71 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The price ranged
from $105.67 to $107.35. The futures are up 8 percent this year.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  said oil supplies rose 2.78 million barrels to 349.3
million last week. Oil rose 34 cents to $106.68 a barrel at 4:37
p.m. in electronic trading.  Brent crude  for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange gained 88 cents, or 0.7 percent, to
$126.22 a barrel, the highest settlement price in 11 months.  Retail Sales  The  retail sales  increase matched the median forecast of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a January
gain of 0.6 percent that was larger than previously estimated.
Sales rose 1.6 percent at automobile dealers, reversing a 1.6
percent decrease the prior month. Demand improved in 11 of 13
industry categories.  “Retail sales definitely are having a bullish impact on
the market,” said Phil Streible, a Chicago-based commodities
broker at RJO Futures.  Cars last month sold at the fastest pace in four years, led
by Chrysler Group LLC and a surprise gain from General Motors
Co. Light-vehicle sales accelerated to a 15 million annual rate,
the strongest since February 2008, according to Ward’s
Automotive Group.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced for the fifth
straight day, climbing 1.8 percent to 1,395.95 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time. The index is up 11 percent in 2012. The Dow climbed
1.7 percent to 13,177.68.  German Confidence  Prices also gained after German investor confidence jumped
to a 21-month high. The ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said its index of investor and analyst
expectations advanced to 22.3 from 5.4 in February.  The index, which is designed to predict economic
developments six months in advance, increased for the fourth
straight month. It reached the highest reading since June 2010.
Economists forecast a gain to 10, according to the median of 36
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  “The market pushed high on German confidence and retail
sales, rekindling the rally to $110,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“The economic data is boosting expectations for higher
demand.”  Crude fell back as the dollar strengthened after the Fed
released its statement at around 2:15 p.m.  Inflation “has been subdued in recent months although
prices of crude oil and gasoline have increased lately,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement at the
conclusion of a meeting today in  Washington . The increase in oil
will “push up inflation temporarily, but the committee
anticipates that subsequently inflation will run at or below the
rate that it judges most consistent with its dual mandate.”  Dollar Gains  The dollar increased its gain against the euro to 0.7
percent after the Fed’s statement from 0.4 percent before. The
dollar strengthened as much as 0.8 percent in early trading,
helping push oil down. A stronger dollar and weaker euro reduce
oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  “We are moving with the dollar and equities again,” said
Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of
Iitrader.com in  Chicago .  Crude prices are too high, three oil ministers said at the
International Energy Forum yesterday in  Kuwait . Mohamed Al-Hamli
of the  United Arab Emirates , Mohammed Al-Rumhy of Oman and Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos of Angola all said prices should be
lower. The Angolan minister said he’d prefer to see Brent at
$110 to $115 a barrel.  U.S. gasoline inventories probably fell  1 million barrels 
last week, according to the median estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News before an Energy Department report
tomorrow. Distillate supplies, including diesel and heating oil,
probably dropped 1.5 million barrels and crude stockpiles rose
1.6 million, the survey showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 601,176
contracts as of 4:38 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 525,361
contracts yesterday, 16 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.58 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  