-- Oil Prices ‘A Bit on the High Side,’ Ecuador Minister Says
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-03-13T08:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/oil-prices-a-bit-on-the-high-side-ecuador-minister-says-1-.html
Crude prices are “a bit on the
high side,” said Wilson Pastor,  Ecuador ’s oil minister, echoing
comments other OPEC officials made as the producers prepare to
meet consumers for talks on the global market.  Ecuador would be “comfortable” with prices for U.S.
benchmark West Texas Intermediate at $80 to $100 a barrel,
Pastor said today in an interview in  Kuwait , where he’s
attending a meeting of the  International Energy Forum . WTI has
averaged $102.29 a barrel this year and hasn’t closed below $100
since Feb. 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pastor’s counterparts from the United Arab Emirates,  Angola 
and Oman yesterday said current prices for European benchmark
Brent crude at more than $125 a barrel are “high” as a result
of international political tensions. The IEF meets every two
years to discuss issues that will determine future supply and
demand in the global market.  Brent has gained 17 percent this year, mainly on concern
that a conflict involving  Iran  may choke off exports from the
Persian Gulf and limit market supplies. Prices surged last year
after a revolution in Libya stopped exports from the North
African country.  Ample Supply  WTI has traded lower as ample supply and limited export
capacity from the U.S. pricing hub curbed price gains. Some
European refiners also struggled to replace oil of similar
quality to the Libyan crude that wasn’t supplied last year.  Oil prices are “high at the moment,” Ryo Minami, director
of the international affairs division at  Japan ’s Agency for
Natural Resources and Energy, said today. Angolan Oil Minister
Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos yesterday said his country
would prefer to see Brent oil at $110 to $115 a barrel. Mohamed Al-Hamli, the U.A.E.’s oil minister, and Mohammed Al-Rumhy of
Oman both said prices were “high.”  Oil-consuming nations are trying to sustain growth in the
face of rising crude prices, while producers are seeking to
balance their national budgets without hurting demand.  Ecuador plans to raise oil output to 520,000 barrels a day
by the end of the year from 504,000 barrels a day, Pastor said.
The Latin American country is seeking to expand output by
improving oil recovery rates at older deposits, he said.  The country will hold a bidding round in May for rights to
develop crude at those mature fields, Pastor said. He said he
expects U.S. oilfield services providers  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  to bid in the round.  Ecuador is one of 12 members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries along with Algeria, Angola, Iran,
Iraq, Kuwait, Libya,  Nigeria , Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the U.A.E.
and Venezuela. Oman is the largest Arab oil producer that’s not
an OPEC member.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Kuwait at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  