-- Lone Star Said to Buy $1 Billion in Loans From CIT Group
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-03-13T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/lone-star-is-said-to-buy-1-billion-in-commercial-loans-from-cit.html
Lone Star  Funds has agreed to buy
$1 billion in commercial loans from  CIT Group Inc. (C) , the small
business lender run by  John Thain  after emerging from bankruptcy
in December 2009, according to a person with knowledge of the
sale.  Lone Star, a Dallas-based private equity firm, is
purchasing mostly senior secured loans, as well as some junior
secured debt, in about 72 companies, according to the person,
who asked not to be named because the transactions haven’t been
announced.  Investment bank Houlihan Lokey is acting as intermediary.
Jed Repko, a spokesman for Lone Star at Joele Frank, Wilkinson
Brimmer Katcher, and  Curt Ritter , a spokesman for CIT, both
declined to comment.  Private equity investors are looking to purchase troubled
loans as banks work to tidy up their balance sheets.  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO) , the New York-based private equity firm
run by  Leon Black , has been marketing a fund to acquire
nonperforming debt in  Europe .  CIT sold more than $3.5 billion of lower-yielding assets
last year, according to a presentation from JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s Global High Yield & Leveraged Finance conference in
February.  “The economic profitability of the company has improved
quite nicely over the course of the year,” said Glenn Votek,
CIT’s treasurer, according to a transcript of the event. “We
were able to get rid of noncore and nonperforming assets.”  CIT’s Changes  Since taking the helm of CIT in February 2010, Thain, the
former Merrill Lynch & Co. chief executive officer, has sought
to cut funding costs and win over regulators. Last April, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Utah Department of
Financial Institutions lifted cease-and-desist orders on CIT,
allowing it to increase brokered deposits.  In the past, CIT relied on high-interest-rate bonds and
commercial paper to raise funds. The 2008 financial crisis made
such funding more expensive. Unable to restructure its debt, CIT
filed for  bankruptcy protection  in November 2009.  The majority of the commercial loans have been sold and the
others are being completed, according to the person.  Lone Star Funds acquires distressed debt and equity assets
including corporate, commercial real estate, single family
residential and consumer debt, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  