-- Vinik Hedge Fund Recruits Top-Ranked David Iben From Nuveen
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2012-03-14T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/top-ranked-nuveen-manager-iben-to-join-vinik-s-hedge-fund.html
Jeffrey Vinik, the former Fidelity
Investments stock picker turned hedge  fund manager , hired David Iben, a top-performing stock picker who heads Nuveen Investment
Inc.’s Tradewinds affiliate.  Iben will leave in June to join Vinik Asset Management LP,
and will be succeeded by Emily Alejos and Andrew Thelen as co-
chief investment officers, Kathleen Cardoza, a spokeswoman for
Chicago-based Nuveen, said yesterday in an interview. Iben
wasn’t immediately available to comment, she said.  Like Vinik, who started his Boston-based hedge fund in 1996
after leaving Fidelity, Iben made his name in the investment
business managing mutual funds. His $2 billion  Nuveen Tradewinds
Global All Cap Fund (NWGAX) , which invests in stocks all over the world,
advanced 8.1 percent over the past five years, beating 99
percent of rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Paul Hechmer, another top-ranked fund manager at Nuveen,
resigned in 2009 in a disagreement with the firm’s decision to
open a half-dozen investment products. Hechmer has since started
his own company, called Del Rey Global Investors LLC.  Cardoza said Tradewinds has a “deep team” and an
investment process that is driven by analyst research. Alejos
and Thelen have each been at the Tradewinds unit for more than
five years, Cardoza said.  Nuveen was taken private for $5.6 billion by buyout firm
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC in 2007.  Washington Native  Nuveen, whose investment affiliates include NWQ Investment
Management and Santa Barbara Asset Management, oversees about
$230 billion in mutual funds, closed-end funds and institutional
accounts. The Tradewinds unit, which was started in 2006 to
invest in global stocks of all sizes, manages about $34 billion.  Iben also manages the $3.2 billion  Nuveen Tradewinds Value
Opportunities Fund (NVOAX) , which invests primarily in U.S. stocks and
returned an average 6.9 percent annually to beat 98 percent of
peers over the past five years.  Iben’s investment style at Tradewinds involves buying
shares of companies he deems as undervalued, based on metrics
such as earnings and  cash flow . He is known for eschewing market
benchmarks when building portfolios. His Global All-Cap fund had
17 percent of its assets in metals and mining companies such as
 Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  and  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  as of Feb. 29,
according to the firm’s website.  A native of  Washington , D.C., Iben’s family moved to
 California  when he was 7. He started his investment career after
earning a Master of Business Administration from the University
of  Southern California , and got his start managing money at the
investing unit of Los Angeles-based insurance company Farmers
Group Inc. before joining Nuveen in 2000.  Vinik ran Fidelity’s Magellan fund for four years between
1992 and mid-1996 and is known for making big moves and against-
the-grain bets, including an ill-timed decision in 1996 to buy
U.S. Treasuries.  Mark Hostetter, chief executive officer of Vinik Asset
Management, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  