-- Ore-Shipping Rates Seen 13% Lower as China Cuts Target: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-03-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/ore-shipping-rates-seen-13-lower-as-china-cuts-target-freight.html
Rates to ship  iron ore , the second-
biggest cargo after oil, are poised to drop to the lowest level
in a decade after  China  cut its growth target, signaling weaker
demand from the world’s biggest buyer of the commodity.  Capesizes, each hauling about 170,000 metric tons of ore,
will earn an average of $13,000 a day this year, the least since
2002, according to the median of 10 analyst forecasts compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s 13 percent less than the median in January.
Shares of New York-based  Genco Shipping & Trading Ltd. (GNK) , which
operates nine of the vessels, will drop 19 percent in the next
12 months, the average of 11 estimates showed.  China, which buys 64 percent of all seaborne iron ore, will
target growth of 7.5 percent, the lowest since 2004, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said March 5. Steel output will advance 4 percent this
year, from 8.9 percent in 2011, the China Iron and Steel
Association predicted the following day. Iron-ore imports may
decline 14 percent this year, equal to about 550 Capesize
cargoes, the China Mining Association estimates.  “Any optimism in the market earlier on has disappeared,”
said Andreas Loftesnes, a Singapore-based freight and iron-ore
derivatives broker at Freight Investor Services Ltd., which
claims to be the biggest broker of the swaps contracts. “We may
see China clamping down and going a bit slower. We need much
more cargo.”  Capesize rates fell for a first week in four after Wen’s
comments at a state-of-the-nation speech in Beijing, declining
3.2 percent to $5,786 as of March 9, according to the London-
based  Baltic Exchange . The analysts’ estimated average implies a
fifth consecutive annual decline, according to data from the
bourse, which publishes freight costs for more than 50 routes.  Losing Money  While the annual prediction implies rates will rally from
current levels, that won’t be enough to return most vessels to
profit. A five-year-old Capesize needs about $19,000 a day to
break even, Oslo-based Arctic Securities ASA estimates.  A measure of combined earnings across the 14-member
Bloomberg  Pure Play (BPG4DBS)  Dry Bulk Shipping Index will drop 91 percent
this year, analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. The
gauge, led by Seoul-based STX Pan Ocean Co. and Hellerup,
Denmark-based  D/S Norden A/S (DNORD) , is down 5.5 percent from this
year’s closing peak on Feb. 20. That compares with a 1.5 percent
decline by the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities.  The slump in shipping contrasts with historically high
earnings for mining companies.  Vale SA (VALE5) , Rio Tinto Group and BHP
Billiton Ltd., the three biggest iron-ore exporters, will report
their largest or second-highest profits ever this year, the mean
of 43 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Carrying Capacity  Fewer cargoes would come as the number of Capesizes keeps
rising. The fleet expanded 77 percent in the past five years,
after owners ordered new ships in response to rates that were as
much as 40 times higher in 2008, according to data from Redhill,
England-based IHS Fairplay. Combined carrying capacity will rise
another 13 percent this year as the number of cargoes across so-
called dry-bulk commodities increases 3.5 percent, London-based
Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker, estimates.  Declining earnings and unprofitable Capesize returns may
spur owners to scrap older ships, cutting the fleet’s capacity
and potentially supporting rates. A record 12.3 million tons of
capacity will be demolished this year, 17 percent more than in
2011,  Clarkson (CKN)  predicts. The resale value of a 15-year-old
Capesize is within 3.1 percent of the lowest level since at
least 2005, increasing the likelihood vessels will be sent to
scrap yards, according to data from Simpson, Spence & Young
Ltd., the second-largest global shipbroker.  Monthly Decline  Rates may also exceed the prediction in the Bloomberg
survey as owners slow ships to save on fuel, effectively
reducing the capacity of the fleet. Speeds averaged 9.1 knots in
February, a fourth consecutive monthly decline, vessel-tracking
data compiled by Bloomberg show. An average of 326 carriers were
anchored, the most in at least three years.  Clarkson raised its estimates for Chinese iron-ore imports
three times last year. A 36 percent plunge in prices for the
commodity in the nine months through October spurred demand from
steelmakers. Monthly imports into China rose from 48.8 million
tons in February to as much as 64.2 million tons in November,
customs data show. Capesize rates jumped as high as $32,889 in
December from as low as $4,567 in February.  The surge in imports means stockpiles at ports in China of
97.9 million tons are now within 2.9 percent of a record,
according to Beijing Antaike Information Development Co., a
state-backed research company. The price of benchmark hot-rolled
coil steel in China fell 12 percent to 4,255 yuan ($672) a ton
since July, Steel Business Briefing data show. Steelmakers may
also curb imports because of rising prices.  Mining Companies  Seaborne iron-ore supply will rise 3.8 percent to 1.09
billion tons this year, the smallest gain since 2001, Clarkson
estimates. While that means a slower expansion in cargoes for
ships, it will bolster prices for  mining companies . Ore at
China’s Tianjin port will gain 10 percent to an average of
$157.50 a ton in the fourth quarter, according to the median of
11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg in February.  Vale, based in  Rio de Janeiro , will report net income of
$21.4 billion this year, the second-highest ever, the mean of
four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows. London-based
Rio will make $14.5 billion, the most ever, according to the
mean of 19 predictions. Melbourne-based  BHP (BLT)  will earn $19.6
billion in the 12 months through June, an amount exceeded only
by the prior period’s record, based on 20 estimates.  Genco will have a record net loss of $100.5 million this
year, against profit of $25.4 million in 2011, according to the
mean of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The shares, down
9.6 percent this year to $6.11, will drop to $4.95 in 12 months,
the forecasts show. Just one of the 18 analysts covering the
company and tracked by Bloomberg recommends buying the stock.
Chief Financial Officer John Wobensmith declined to comment.  Shipping Costs  The glut of Capesizes extends to other types of carriers.
The fleet of Panamaxes, which carry about 50 percent less cargo,
will expand 14 percent this year, Clarkson estimates. Daily
rates plunged 43 percent from the start of the year to $7,309.
The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of raw-materials shipping costs,
tumbled 48 percent and its February average was the lowest for
any month since at least 1992, Baltic Exchange data show.  The fleet of very large crude carriers, each hauling about
2 million barrels of oil, will swell 6.3 percent this year as
demand for cargoes grows 3.2 percent, according to Clarkson.
Earnings on the benchmark Saudi-Arabia-to-Japan route fell 27
percent in the past year, the exchange’s figures show.  Capesizes represent 41 percent of Genco’s combined fleet
capacity, according to the company’s website. Iron ore accounted
for 68 percent of all Capesize spot, or single-voyage, cargoes
in the 12 months through February, Morgan Stanley estimates.  “Capesizes are massively reliant on iron ore,” said Steve
Rodley, U.K. managing director at Global Maritime Investments
Ltd., a Cyprus-based company that operates as many as 80 dry-
bulk ships and trades freight derivatives. “Analysts were
factoring in a certain amount of steel production, and the
number of ships coming won’t change. So if you’re talking about
a decrease in steel demand, that’s definitely negative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  