-- Morgan Stanley Says Fed Didn’t Object to Brokerage Purchase
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-03-13T21:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/morgan-stanley-says-no-objection-received-from-fed-to-2012-capital-plans.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  said the  Federal
Reserve  didn’t object to the firm’s capital plan, including its
potential purchase from Citigroup Inc. of an additional piece of
the banks’ retail brokerage joint venture.  The Fed also didn’t object to the payment of current common
and preferred dividends, New York-based Morgan Stanley said in a
statement today. The firm didn’t say whether it was raising
 dividends  or buying back stock.  The Fed is requiring the nation’s largest lenders to show
they have credible plans for maintaining capital and continuing
lending in an economic downturn. Morgan Stanley’s Tier 1 common
ratio would drop to a minimum of 5.4 percent in the Fed’s stress
scenario, above the required 5 percent threshold.  Morgan Stanley has the option to buy a 14 percent stake in
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney in May, increasing its ownership to
65 percent, and can buy the business outright over the next two
years. In 2009, the firm bought a controlling stake in the joint
venture, which has more than 17,000 advisers and $1.65 trillion
in client assets.  Morgan Stanley would post a net loss of $22.5 through the
end of 2013 under the Fed’s stress scenario, according to the
results released today. That’s the fourth-highest loss among the
19 banks subjected to the review.  The additional brokerage stake will probably cost about
$2.7 billion,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analysts said in a note
to investors in January. Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman 
said on a January conference call that while immediately
purchasing the next stake will depend on price, buying the rest
of the brokerage is a “core plank” in his strategy.  Morgan Stanley cut its dividend in 2009 to 5 cents from 27
cents and has maintained the 5-cent payout since then. The firm
hasn’t bought back any stock in the past three years under its
share repurchase program, which was approved in 2006 and has
$1.56 billion remaining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  