-- Moscow Police Summon Opposition Leader Navalny for Questioning
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-03-13T14:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/moscow-police-summon-opposition-leader-navalny-for-questioning.html
Moscow police summoned Russian
opposition leader and anti-corruption blogger Alexei Navalny for
questioning, his lawyer said.  Navalny and employees of his website  Rospil , dedicated to
uncovering government fraud, have been ordered to appear
tomorrow, the attorney, Dmitry Volov said by phone. “Navalny
has no intention of going there as they didn’t provide any
justification for the summons,” he said.  The authorities may try to bring charges of extremism
against Navalny, another lawyer for the activist, Vadim Kobzyov,
told Ekho Moskvy radio. The summons came from a police
department for combating extremism, Navalny said on his blog.
The Moscow police press service declined to comment.  Navalny, who was jailed for 15 days in December after
taking part in an unsanctioned rally, is one of the most
prominent opposition figures who organized anti-government
demonstrations to protest election results. Authorities may seek
to curb protest rallies in the capital because of the disruption
they bring to city life, Deputy Mayor Alexander Gorbenko said
yesterday.  Mass protests against alleged electoral fraud brought tens
of thousands of people onto the streets in Moscow and other
cities starting in December, sparking the largest unrest in
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s decade in power. While the
demonstrations showed signs of cooling, with 10,000 to 25,000
people taking part in a March 10 rally in Moscow, opposition
leaders are vowing to keep up protests after Putin’s disputed
election to a new Kremlin term on March 4.  A Moscow district court will hear a case on March 15
involving Navalny’s detention on March 5 for refusing to leave
the city’s Pushkin Square after taking part in an authorized
demonstration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  