-- Harry Redknapp ‘Not Sure’ of Taking England Job: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-13T10:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/tottenham-s-redknapp-not-sure-of-taking-top-england-job-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Redknapp in Doubt  Tottenham Hotspur manager  Harry Redknapp  isn’t sure he
wants to succeed England boss  Fabio Capello , the  Sun  reported.  Stuart Pearce took over as caretaker of the national team
after Capello quit in February. Redknapp is one of the favorites
to succeed the Italian.  “I’m not sure,” the paper quoted Redknapp as saying in
French newspaper L’Equipe. “I have a very good job at Tottenham
today and I like it. But I do not know. We will wait and see.”  Sterling Spurs-Bound?  Tottenham Hotspur may make a move for Liverpool player
Raheem Sterling this summer, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The England Under-18 player has yet to make his debut for
the first team after he was purchased from Queens Park Rangers
in 2012 for 500,000 pounds ($783,000).  Villa Chasing Pogrebnyak  Aston Villa manager  Alex McLeish  wants to sign Fulham
striker Pavel Pogrebnyak, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  McLeish has already made contact with the representatives
of the 28-year-old Russian, who will be a free agent once his
short-term loan from Stuttgart finishes in May.  Kenny’s Defense  Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  has defended his record at
the club, saying sponsorship agreements are as important as
wins, the  Guardian  reported.  “There are many ways you can judge a season and the best
way is progress at the football club as a whole,” the paper
quoted Dalglish as saying. “You go off the pitch and see how
much money we are getting through sponsorship and kit deals.”  Liverpool has won two of their previous 11 league games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  