-- House Group Focuses Budget Fight on Spending Cut Before Election
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-03-13T15:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/house-group-focuses-budget-fight-on-spending-cut-before-election.html
This year, Medicare may be pretty
far down the list of U.S.  House Republicans ’ worries.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  and other
Republicans last year were widely criticized for their proposal
to overhaul Medicare as part of their budget. House Speaker  John Boehner  and his caucus are now struggling to write a fiscal plan
addressing spending cuts.  Lawmakers say they want their annual tax-and-spending
blueprint to explain how they’ll address about $1 trillion in
automatic cuts set to begin in 2013. So far, there’s no
agreement.  “That’s the big question,” said Representative James Lankford, an Oklahoma Republican on the House Budget Committee.
“Part of where we’re struggling right now is to say ‘How do you
do this?’”  A group of self-described House conservatives, known as the
Republican Study Committee, is pushing for a  budget  fight by
proposing that most of the automatic cuts come from spending
bills that fund agencies for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1.
That would raise the possibility of a government shutdown
shortly before the November election because Democrats say it
would upend a budget deal struck last year with the Obama
administration.  “The whole idea of the budget is to tell the voters what
the Republicans will be about if we run the House, the Senate
and the presidency,” said Representative Tim Huelskamp, a
Kansas Republican.  Compromise Elusive  Republican leaders in the chamber, including Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia , who met last week with budget
writers, so far have been unable to broker a compromise. Failing
to adopt a budget resolution would be a major embarrassment for
Boehner and Cantor, especially after Republicans lambasted
 Senate Democrats  for announcing that they will skip the budget
exercise this year.  House Republicans insist they will come to an agreement.  “We’ve made too big of point out of the Democratic failure
to write a budget,” said Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma
Republican. “So I think at the end of the day, we’ll get there.
That’s a powerful incentive.”  The more conservative House members are pitted against
older, more moderate Republicans on the Appropriations Committee
who would have to write the spending bills. They say the cuts
would be so large as to be untenable, and they’re pushing to
find the savings elsewhere in the government’s budget.  Medicare Overhaul  At issue is the party’s budget plan laying out its fiscal
agenda for the year. Republicans were accused last year by
Democrats of plotting to end Medicare when their budget proposed
overhauling the health care program for the elderly. They
probably will revive their Medicare plan this year, though with
changes to reflect a compromise that Ryan has since written with
Democratic Senator  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon .  The core issue this year for Republicans is what to do
about the automatic cuts that were designed last year to push a
 deficit -reduction supercommittee to agree on a deficit plan. The
panel failed, so $55 billion will be automatically subtracted
from the Pentagon’s budget next year, for a 10 percent cut.  Another $55 billion will mostly come from the non-defense
discretionary portion of the budget that funds programs such as
the  National Institutes of Health ,  NASA , the national parks and
hundreds of other programs.  Republicans probably can’t count on their Medicare overhaul
to contribute much in savings because they are committed to
phasing in changes slowly, to give the public time to adjust.
That means the plan won’t contribute much to reducing the  budget
deficit  any time soon.  Vote This Month  Republicans, who will probably have to pass their plan on a
party-line vote, aim to release their budget proposal next week
and put it to a vote by the end of March.  A minority of Republicans including California
Representative  John Campbell  say the automatic cuts should be
allowed to take effect without any changes, including the
defense cuts many of his colleagues and the Pentagon say would
be devastating.  “There’s a lot of waste in defense and I think we should
be cutting it out,” Campbell said.  Most members of the conservative Republican Study
Committee, such as its chairman,  Jim Jordan  of  Ohio , want most -
- if not all -- of the cuts to come out of the non-defense
discretionary portion of the budget.  “We’re $15 trillion in debt and you can’t do $100 billion
in savings?” Jordan said.  $900 Billion  Appropriators are balking. That’s partly because Congress
already agreed, as part of a budget agreement last year, to cut
$900 billion from discretionary spending over the next decade.  They say that portion of the budget is relatively small
compared with the size of the scheduled cuts. If Republicans
decide to shield defense spending from additional cuts, it would
require reducing everything else by 18 percent.  “Discretionary has taken all the hits it can take,” said
House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky
Republican. He and his colleagues want the cuts to come out of
entitlement programs, most of which are exempt from the
automatic spending reductions.  “All the cuts that have been significant to this moment in
time have been borne by the non-defense discretionary side,”
said Representative Steve LaTourette, an Ohio Republican also on
the appropriations panel. “Everybody says the entitlements are
where the money is, and they’re right, but nobody ever does
anything about the entitlements.”  That’s precisely the issue for Huelskamp, who said he has
become skeptical of promises to tackle entitlement spending.  “Discretionary is the only thing we usually handle around
here,” he said. “To suggest we should undo discretionary cuts
that are guaranteed in law in exchange for savings that may or
may not occur” isn’t a solution to the spending issues facing
Congress, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  