-- TowerCo LLC Sets Lower Interest Rate on $397 Million Term Loan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-03-13T20:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/towerco-llc-sets-lower-interest-rate-on-397-million-term-loan.html
TowerCo LLC, the telecommunications
company backed by Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Paul Allen ’s
investment firm, set a lower  interest rate  on its $397 million
 term loan , according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction.  The debt due 2017 will pay 3.5 percentage points more than
the London interbank offered rate, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the terms are private. Libor, a rate
banks say they can borrow in dollars from each other, will have
a 1 percent floor.  Morgan Stanley is arranging the loan for the Cary, North
Carolina-based company and lenders must submit commitments by
March 20, the person said.  The loan was originally priced February 2011 at 3.75
percentage points more than Libor, with a 1.5 percent floor,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt was sold to
investors at 99.5 cents on the dollar.  Lenders on the repricing will be offered one-year call
protection of 101 cents, the person said, meaning the company
would have to pay 1 cent more than face value to refinance the
debt during its first year.  TowerCo was founded in 2004 by its Chief Executive Officer
Richard Byrne and Chief Operating Officer Scot Lloyd, with
backing from New York-based private-equity firm Tailwind Capital
Group LLC, according to the tower operator’s website.  Soros Strategic Partners LP, controlled by billionaire
investor  George Soros , became an investor in the company in
December 2005. In September 2008, TowerCo received equity
investments from Vulcan Capital, the Seattle firm formed by
Allen, and New York private-equity firm Altpoint Capital
Partners, according to the website.  Dan Hunt, chief financial officer of TowerCo, declined to
comment.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 Mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  