-- Pakistan Ends Drone Strikes in Blow to U.S. War on Terror
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-03-13T02:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/pakistan-tells-white-house-to-stop-drone-missions-after-disputes-fray-ties.html
Pakistan  has told the White House
it no longer will permit U.S. drones to use its airspace to
attack militants and collect intelligence on al-Qaeda and other
groups, according to officials involved in the talks.  U.S. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity because
the drone program is classified, called the use of unmanned
aerial vehicles such as San Diego-based General Atomics’ MQ-1
Predator and its MQ-9 Reaper a critical element in the Obama
administration’s anti-terrorism strategy.  Eliminating drone missions would “contribute to a
resurgence of extremist groups operating in the tribal areas”
along Pakistan’s border with Afghanistan, Peter Singer, author
of “Wired for War: The Robotics Revolution and Conflict in the
21st Century,” said in an interview.  Pakistan’s ambassador to  Washington , Sherry Rehman, met
Vice President  Joe Biden ’s national security adviser Antony Blinken on March 9 and told him that Pakistan’s political
parties have agreed that the drone flights over Pakistan must
end, officials involved said, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the talks were private.  Pakistan’s sovereignty over its airspace and the civilian
casualties that have resulted from drone strikes are emotional
issues in Pakistan, where public opinion heavily favors
terminating drone missions, Pakistani officials say.  The U.S. will try to reach an accommodation with Pakistani
leaders, two American officials said. The U.S. gave Pakistan
$4.4 billion in economic assistance, counterinsurgency funding
and military reimbursements in 2010, according to the
 Congressional Research Service .  Essential Strategy  The only chance for a compromise, Pakistani officials said,
may be if the U.S. agrees to share intelligence and coordinate
strikes first, a strategy Pakistan has long advocated. The U.S.
has resisted giving information to Pakistan in advance because
of fears that some in Pakistan’s security forces might warn the
targets of impending strikes.  The drone program, which President  Barack Obama 
acknowledged publicly for the first time in January, has been
part of U.S. counter-terrorism strategy in Pakistan since 2004,
officials and counter-terrorism experts say. The administration
authorized 53 drone attacks in 2009 and 117 in 2010, compared
with 35 in 2008 under former President  George W. Bush , according
to Bill Roggio, a U.S. military analyst whose website, the Long
War Journal, maintains a database of the campaign.  ‘Key Leadership’  The drone program is “critical,” because it provides
better real-time surveillance and reconnaissance than satellite
imagery does,  Seth Jones , a senior political scientist in
Washington for the  Santa Monica , California-based RAND
Corporation research institute, said in an interview.  “If it is used selectively,” it can help both the U.S.
and Pakistan by taking out “key leadership” of al-Qaeda and
other groups such as Tehrik-i-Taliban of Pakistan, which poses a
greater threat to Pakistan than it does to the U.S., said Jones,
a former representative of the U.S. Special Operations Command
at the Pentagon.  Singer said that “for several years, Pakistan has openly
said, ‘How dare you violate our sovereignty,’ but it turned out
the CIA was flying from Pakistani bases with Pakistan’s
permission.”  This time, it’s possible “they really mean it,” after a
series of high-profile disputes have damaged relations, said
Singer, director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at The
 Brookings Institution  in Washington.  Frayed by Controversies  U.S. officials are being dispatched to meet with Rehman
today to discuss the dispute over drone missions and other
sticking points in an alliance frayed by numerous controversies.
Those have included the U.S. raid to kill  Osama bin Laden 
without first informing the Pakistani government and the killing
of two Pakistanis by a CIA contractor.  The security relationship has been virtually frozen since
Nov. 26, when U.S. helicopters from  Afghanistan  fired on border
posts, killing 24 Pakistani soldiers. In protest, Pakistan
closed its border to the resupply of U.S. forces in Afghanistan
and suspended much military and intelligence cooperation.  While drone attacks have continued this year, their
frequency has waned. As of March 10, the U.S. had conducted
eight attacks, an average of one every nine days, compared with
one strike ever six days in 2011, according to Roggio.  The border attack spurred Pakistan’s political parties to
form a parliamentary committee to review the U.S. relationship.
A decision on whether to permit drone missions is one of the
most anticipated elements of the review, which has not been made
public.  Panel’s Recommendations  Pakistani officials said the committee will present its
recommendations to a closed session of parliament as early as
March 19, and lawmakers will have an opportunity to debate and
amend the recommendations. Pakistan’s leaders are expected to
share the review with the U.S. by the end of this month,
officials on both sides said.  If the U.S. were to continue flying drone missions without
Pakistani permission, some Pakistani military officials
suggested last year that Pakistan would be within its rights to
shoot them down.  “A Predator flies little faster than 100 miles per hour; a
World War I pilot could shoot them down,” said Singer. For that
reason, and to keep the operation secret, the U.S. used jet-
powered semi-stealth technology in the bin Laden raid, flying a
 Lockheed Martin (LMT)  RQ-170 Sentinel, the same type of aircraft that
 Iran  said it had brought down over its airspace last December,
Singer said.  Possible Compromise  The best solution may be a compromise that involves the
Pakistanis more closely in drone operations, Singer said.
“That’s certainly something the Pakistanis have asked for, but
it may not be politically feasible in the U.S.”  “The better Pakistan can argue publicly that it’s involved
in these strikes,” the better the chances of keeping the
program alive, Singer said. Given how much trust on both sides
has deteriorated, he said, any such cooperation would likely
have to start slowly, choosing a few targets to test the
strategy.  Singer said he predicts the U.S. will either reach a secret
accommodation with the Pakistanis for continued drone missions,
or “try a number of workarounds,” that might include flying
stealth aircraft instead. Piloted stealth planes can’t linger
over a target as long as drones can, he said.  Either solution has drawbacks, he said, from a “fear that
the more information we share with them, the less effective our
strikes are going to be,” to a concern that using stealth
rather than drone technology means “you’re not going to be able
to carry out as many of these operations.”  Ripple Effects  What happens in Pakistan may have ripple effects for U.S.
drone programs around the world, in places including Somalia,
Yemen and the  Philippines , he said.  Testifying before Congress last week, Marine Corps General
James Mattis, the head of U.S. Central Command, expressed
confidence that the U.S. and Pakistan will overcome tensions.  “We do have a problematic at times relationship with
Pakistan. That does not prevent us from working it. And there’s
a lot of common ground that we use -- that we operate off of
together against this enemy. We don’t have 100 percent common
ground about it, but it is not a show stopper,” Mattis told the
House Armed Services Committee on March 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  