-- Panetta Hears Kyrgyzstan Open to Talks on Extending Base Deal
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-03-13T19:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/panetta-in-kyrgyzstan-seeking-talks-on-renewing-base-agreement.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
found officials in Kyrgyzstan open to extending use of an air
base the U.S. needs to complete operations in Afghanistan, a
U.S. defense official said, in a prelude to negotiations on what
may be a costly accord.  Kyrgyz Defense Minister Taalaybek Omuraliev and Secretary
of the Defense Council Busurmankul Tabaldiev indicated to
Panetta that they are open to cooperation on issues including
the future use of Manas air base outside the capital Bishkek,
official said today on condition of anonymity to discuss private
talks.  The current base-use agreement expires in July 2014.
American personnel go through Manas to and from Afghanistan,
where the U.S. plans to have troops in place at least through
the end of 2014. The base is also used for refueling aircraft.  “I want to thank them for their cooperation and ensure
that that relationship can continue into the future as well,”
Panetta told reporters traveling with him before his meeting.  The last time the two nations negotiated an agreement, the
rental fee the U.S. pays to Kyrgyzstan rose to $60 million a
year from $17.4 million after the Kyrgyz president at the time
ordered the Americans out in early 2009.  President Almazbek Atambayev told a U.S. State Department
delegation last month that there should be no foreign military
presence at Manas after the summer of 2014, Kabar news agency
 reported . The base hosted about 580,000 passengers and almost
4,800 refueling sorties last year.  Echoing that stance, Tabaldiev told Panetta at the start of
their meeting today, before media were ushered out of the room,
that “there should be no military mission” at the base after
2014. He said it was a civilian, commercial enterprise.  Pakistan Shuts Crossings  No negotiations are taking place currently, a second U.S.
defense official traveling with Panetta told reporters before
his meetings.  Pakistan ’s November decision to shut border crossings for
supplies into southern Afghanistan after an aerial attack that
killed 24 of its soldiers has heightened the importance of
Kyrgyzstan, the only nation that hosts both U.S. and Russian
military bases.  The U.S. is using almost all of its alternative routes to
full capacity, the second defense official said.  The second-most frequently used of the three northern
ground supply routes the U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan uses
runs through Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and Tajikistan. The primary
passage from the north goes through Russia, Kazakhstan and
Uzbekistan. A third route runs through the Caucasus.  Panetta is also seeking to reassure Central Asian neighbors
about the stability of  Afghanistan  because several have
expressed concern that the country will remain volatile after
2014, the second defense official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  