-- Paulson’s Lacoursiere Said to Leave to Start Own Hedge Fund
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-03-13T21:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/paulson-s-lacoursiere-said-to-leave-to-start-own-hedge-fund-1-.html
Robert Lacoursiere, the Paulson &
Co. partner who oversaw the $23 billion hedge fund’s team of
banking analysts, quit last week after four years to start his
own fund, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Lacoursiere, 49, plans to start an equity hedge fund within
six months that will focus on global financial companies, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  Paulson, founded by billionaire  John Paulson , suffered
record losses last year as his bet on a U.S. economic recovery
went awry. The hedge fund last quarter sold entire stakes in
Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp., among its largest
financial holdings, after the lenders’ performance helped drag
down returns in 2011.  “There is cash flowing around for some spinouts, depending
on who they are and where they come from,” said Daniel Hunter,
a partner at Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP, a New York-based law firm
whose clients include  hedge funds . “If he is able to
sufficiently explain to investors what happened with the
portfolio, then he may be in good shape to get money.”  Lacoursiere didn’t make portfolio or investment decisions
at Paulson, according to another person familiar with the firm,
who asked not to be named because the information isn’t public.  Lacoursiere is the most senior person to depart  New York- 
based Paulson since Paolo Pellegrini left in December 2008 to
start his own hedge fund. Pellegrini, who had helped Paulson
make more than $3 billion with bets on a U.S. housing crash,
incurred losses in 2010 and returned money to clients.  ‘Biggest Disappointment’  Lacoursiere, whose banking group had 10 analysts, joined
Paulson from Banc of America Securities LLC, a unit of
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America. He had
previously worked at  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos.  Paulson lost 51 percent last year in one of his largest
funds. The firm told clients in a year-end letter last month
that Bank of America was “the biggest disappointment” in the
fund’s bank holdings.  Citigroup has gained 34 percent and Bank of America has
climbed 46 percent this year following Paulson selling his
shares. Paulson had told clients in January 2011 that the fund
made more than $1 billion on its Citigroup investment in the
prior 18 months.  Paulson’s Advantage Plus Fund, which seeks to profit from
corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies and uses
leverage to amplify returns, gained 3.5 percent in the first two
months of 2012, according to a client update, a copy of which
was obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  