-- Paul Clement, Wynn Resorts, Lehman, BofA, UBS in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-13T10:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/paul-clement-wynn-resorts-lehman-bofa-ubs-in-court-news.html
Paul Clement  is poised to make a
deeper imprint on American law this year than anyone without the
title “justice,” Bloomberg News’s Greg Stohr reports.  Clement, the 45-year-old attorney at the forefront of the
U.S.  Supreme Court  challenge to President Barack Obama’s health-
care plan, has become the go-to lawyer for conservatives on the
country’s highest-profile legal fights.  He is making the Republican case against the Obama
administration on illegal immigration, voter-identification
laws, gay marriage and recess appointments, as well as health
care. In January, he won a high court victory for  Texas (BEESTX) 
Republicans on congressional redistricting.  In the court’s current nine-month term, Clement is arguing
seven cases, the most by a private lawyer in a single term since
at least the 1970s. His biggest fight is the challenge to the
2010 health-care overhaul, the first time the high court has
considered a president’s signature legislative victory during
his re-election campaign.  Clement disclaims any ideological agenda. From his downtown
 Washington  office last month, the Wisconsin native described
himself as a lawyer driven by the challenge of arguing difficult
cases, rather than a desire to reshape the law.  “I’m not going to deny being a Republican, but I don’t
think that really dictates what kind of cases I’m interested in
taking,” the blue-eyed Clement said, sipping tea in the
conference room of his law firm, Bancroft PLLC, as his gold-
rimmed glasses slipped down his nose. “I really don’t look at
cases through a political lens.”  For more, click here.  N.Y. Woman Charged With Running Brothel Gets Public Defender  Anna Gristina, a  New York  woman charged with running a
brothel that prosecutors said catered to high-net-worth clients,
will continue to have a court-provided lawyer and asked to have
a second lawyer’s $2.5 million apartment used to secure bail.  Justice Juan Merchan of state Supreme Court in  Manhattan 
ruled yesterday that Gristina can have free legal counsel after
Peter Gleason, a lawyer who has also been advising her, said she
didn’t have “two nickels to rub together.” The judge said if
she is found to have financial resources she will have to repay
taxpayers.  Gleason offered to use his Tribeca apartment to guarantee
her appearance for trial. She and her family would stay with
him, and she has agreed to wear an ankle bracelet, he said.
Gristina, the mother of four, has pleaded not guilty.  Prosecutors objected, and Merchan scheduled a March 15
hearing to determine whether such an arrangement would be
ethical.  “I don’t believe the law is crystal clear on this
matter,” the judge said.  Gleason, who said he is a former police officer, said in an
interview outside the courthouse that his apartment is worth
about $2.5 million.  In court he asked that Gristina’s bail of $1 million in
cash or a $2 million bond be cut, without specifying an amount.  The case is People v. Gristina, 12-00751,  New York State
Supreme Court (338265L) , New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  SNR Denton Hires Former Arizona Attorney General Terry Goddard  Samuel Pearson “Terry” Goddard, a former Arizona attorney
general and the Democratic nominee for governor of Arizona in
2010, joined the international law firm  SNR Denton US LLP (1159L) .  Goddard, 65, served as the state’s attorney general from
2003 to 2011, leading prosecutions for border smuggling,
mortgage fraud and consumer protection, SNR Denton said in a
statement. He lost the 2010 gubernatorial election to Republican
incumbent Jan Brewer. Goddard has been a white-collar criminal
prosecutor and was mayor of Phoenix from 1983 to 1990.  He will join SNR Denton’s Phoenix office as senior counsel
in its state attorneys general practice, which advises clients
on “the challenges of litigation where law, policy and politics
converge,” the firm said in the statement.  Goddard, along with Ira William McCollum and Jeff Modisett,
ex-attorneys general of Florida and Indiana, respectively, is
the third former top state legal official to join SNR Denton in
the past year.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  New Suits  Wynn Sued by Okada Over $800 Million Share Redemption Discount  Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada is challenging the
redemption of his 20 percent stake in  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  at an
$800 million discount, saying Steve Wynn runs the company as his
“personal fiefdom.”  Aruze USA, through which Okada invested in Wynn Resorts,
disputes that any redemption occurred because Wynn is legally
barred from redeeming the securities, lawyers for Okada and the
holding company said yesterday in a counterclaim filed in
federal court in Las Vegas.  Okada’s shares, which Wynn Resorts last month said it had
redeemed at a 30 percent discount because Okada was
“unsuitable,”  were never subject to the redemption provision
in the company’s articles of incorporation, according to the
filing. Okada agreed to purchase Wynn Resorts stock before the
redemption provision became effective, according to the filing.  “Wynn Resorts, for all its accomplishments, is not a
corporation in any ordinary sense,” Okada’s lawyers said.
“Rather, Wynn Resorts’ flamboyant chairman, Mr. Wynn, has run
Wynn Resorts as a personal fiefdom, packing the board with
friends who do his personal bidding, and paying key executives
exorbitant amounts for their unwavering fealty.”  Okada’s filing is the latest in an escalating clash between
founder and Chief Executive Officer Steve Wynn  and Okada, the
man who helped bankroll Wynn Resorts starting 12 years ago. Wynn
Resorts accused Okada of making improper payments to Philippines
gaming officials leading the board to declare Okada and certain
affiliates “unsuitable persons” for the company.  Okada accuses Wynn Resorts of breach of contract and its
chairman of racketeering, among other allegations. He seeks a
court order voiding the redemption of his shares, and
unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.  Paul Kranhold , a spokesman for Wynn, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on Okada’s filing.  Wynn Resorts forcibly redeemed the stake held by Okada and
his Tokyo-based  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425)  at a 30 percent
discount to its then market price, the casino operator said in a
statement last month. Wynn has called for a special meeting of
shareholders to remove Okada as a director of Wynn.  Wynn filed its complaint against Okada Feb. 19, alleging
that Okada is developing two casinos and three hotels in Manila
and that he seeks to lure “high-limit, VIP gamblers” from
 China  in direct competition with Wynn’s casino in Macau.
Construction on the Manila Bay casino resort started Jan. 26,
Wynn said in its complaint.  The case is Wynn Resorts v. Kazuo Okada, 12-00400, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas.)  For more, click here.  Ex-Lehman Executive Faces Second Prescription Forgery Charge  Former  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  managing director
Bradley H. Jack was arrested a second time for drug prescription
forgery, hurting his chance to avoid prosecution on the previous
charge through a pretrial diversion program.  Jack, 53, turned himself in and was charged March 9 with
second-degree forgery for a November incident in which he forged
the date on a prescription for a controlled substance at a CVS
pharmacy that was made out to him by a doctor in Fairfield,
Connecticut, according to Capt. Sam Arciola of the Westport
Police Department. Jack was released on $5,000 bond and has a
March 21 court appearance.  In August, Jack, of Westport, was allowed to enter so-
called accelerated rehabilitation, a program that is available
to people charged with less-serious crimes that might result in
prison time. At the August hearing, Superior Court Judge Earl B.
Richards III in Bridgeport, Connecticut, said if he avoided
arrest for a year, the prosecution would be suspended.  Jack had been arrested in June after he allegedly tried to
pass forged prescriptions for 12 pills of the painkiller
Oxycontin and nine of Ritalin, a drug used to treat attention
deficit disorder, according to Fairfield police. Jack had
received treatment for cancer, had had a valid prescription in
the past and had no prior criminal record, his attorney, Robert
G. Golger, said in court in August.  Golger didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the latest arrest.  Jack joined New York-based Lehman in 1984 and ran
investment banking from 1996 to 2002, when he became co-chief
operating officer with Joseph Gregory. In 2004, he was named to
the office of the chairman with the responsibility of overseeing
all of the firm’s investment banking relationships.  He decided to retire from New York-based Lehman to pursue
work in the nonprofit sector and spend time with his family,
Richard Fuld, Lehman’s chief executive officer at the time, said
in June 2005. The company went bankrupt in September 2008.  The earlier case is Connecticut v. Jack, F02B-CR11-0258280-
S, Connecticut Superior Court, Fairfield County (Bridgeport).  For more, click here.  BNY Sued by Ohio For Fraud Over Foreign-Currency Trades  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the world’s largest custody
bank, was sued by  Ohio ’s attorney general for allegedly
defrauding state pension funds through foreign-currency
transactions.  BNY Mellon, which has been sued by several states and the
U.S. over pricing practices in foreign-exchange transactions,
was accused of “systematically overcharging” two pension
funds, according to a statement yesterday from Attorney General
Mike DeWine.  The bank “exploited the volatility of the foreign currency
market to their advantage at the expense of Ohio pensioners and
their families,” DeWine said.  The Ohio complaint follows similar lawsuits filed by a
federal prosecutor in Manhattan and by attorneys general in
Florida, New York, and Virginia over foreign-currency trades
done on behalf of clients. Preet Bharara, the U.S. attorney in
Manhattan, said the bank defrauded clients of more than $1.5
billion through its so-called standing instruction service,
according to an amended complaint filed last month.  The Ohio suit “recycles baseless allegations from other
lawsuits brought elsewhere,” Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank
of New York spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
right on the facts and the law.”  The Ohio pension funds -- the Ohio Police & Fire Pension
Fund and the School Employees Retirement System of Ohio -- seek
to recover more than $16 million in losses, according to the
attorney general.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BofA, MERS Seek to Dismiss Texas Counties’ Mortgage Suit  Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc. and  Bank of
America Corp.  asked a court to dismiss a lawsuit brought by
Texas counties accusing MERS of filing false claims in property
records.  The counties allege Merscorp Inc.’s MERS was established by
lenders including Bank of America to avoid paying filing fees as
well as to ease mortgage transfers. The Texas Legislature
approved of MERS’s appearance as a mortgagee in filings in
county land records, the defendants said in a filing March 9 in
federal court in  Dallas .  “No false, fraudulent or otherwise wrongful activity
occurred by filing security instruments naming MERS as
beneficiary or mortgagee,” MERS and the bank said in their
motion to dismiss. “There is no duty to record assignments, or
other documents, since Texas’s property recording system is
permissive not mandatory.”  MERS tracks servicing rights and ownership interests in
mortgage loans on its registry, allowing banks to buy and sell
loans without recording transfers with counties. Dallas County
claimed that this system has cost it as much as $100 million in
unpaid fees. The county initially sued in September, alleging
that MERS cheated it out of uncollected filing fees.  Dallas County District Attorney Craig Watkins revised the
lawsuit Oct. 31 as a class action, or group case, seeking to
represent all other Texas counties in which a deed of trust has
been filed identifying MERS as a beneficiary.  “Contrary to the defendants’ contentions, the legislature
has not approved MERS’ appearance as the ‘mortgagee’ in the
filings in the real property records of Texas counties,”
Watkins said in an e-mail yesterday. “Rather, the legislature
simply approved MERS acting on behalf of lenders in conducting
non-judicial foreclosures.”  The case is Dallas County v. Merscorp Inc., 11-cv-02733,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Toyota Can’t Require Arbitration in Acceleration Lawsuit  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  can’t force named plaintiffs seeking
group status for a lawsuit over alleged losses from unintended
sudden acceleration to arbitrate their claims rather than
proceed to trial next year.  “Toyota waived any right it may have had to compel
arbitration of 15 of the 20 class representatives’ claims,”
U.S. District Judge James Selna in Santa Ana,  California , said
yesterday. For the other five, “Toyota, as a non-signatory, may
not enforce the arbitration agreements found in the plaintiffs’
purchase and lease agreements with Toyota dealers.”  Selna on Feb. 24 had tentatively denied the carmaker’s
request to force the plaintiffs to arbitrate their claims. The
judge yesterday reiterated his decision that by failing to
assert its right to compel arbitration until now, the carmaker
encouraged the plaintiffs to pursue their current costly and
time consuming litigation strategy.  “Toyota acted in a manner inconsistent with any right to
compel arbitration,” the judge said. “The resulting prejudice
to the class representatives leads the court to find that Toyota
waived any right to compel arbitration of the claims asserted by
the 15 plaintiffs.”  Selna has been presiding over the consolidated litigation
since 2010. He has scheduled three trials for next year that
will serve as bellwether cases to be used by the court and
lawyers for both sides to test evidence and liability theories
before moving on to other trials and a decision by Selna as to
whether to approve a class-action status for the plaintiffs.  Celeste Migliore, a spokeswoman for Torrance, California-
based Toyota Motor Sales USA, said by e-mail that the company is
reviewing its options after the ruling.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  UBS, Deutsche Bank Fight U.K. Over Taxes on 2003 Bonus Plans  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said they don’t owe taxes over
a 2003 compensation plan U.K. authorities argue was designed to
avoid millions of pounds in taxes and national insurance
contributions on employee bonuses.  The two banks appealed separate rulings that found them
liable for income and payroll taxes for bonuses paid to bankers
in shares through an offshore trust, in a four-year-old dispute
with U.K. revenue officials. UBS owes 49.6 million pounds ($77.5
million) on total bonus payments of 92 million pounds into the
plan, according to documents disclosed yesterday after Bloomberg
petitioned the court for their release.  The case “concerns a disagreement over the interpretation
of highly technical tax legislation and dates back to a one-off
compensation plan for 2003,” UBS spokesman Richard Morton said
in an e-mailed statement.  The U.K. government is taking “decisive and swift action”
to tackle tax avoidance, Chancellor of the Exchequer George
Osborne told Parliament this month after authorities closed two
tax loopholes that had been used by  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  Legislators
are seeking a tougher approach to companies that hire lawyers
and accountants to cut tax bills.  The banks and HMRC declined to provide court documents to
reporters at a trial that ended last month. Both sides released
papers outlining their arguments yesterday after Bloomberg News
petitioned the court.  UBS and Deutsche Bank said in the court documents that they
didn’t have to pay income tax on the shares because they were
“restricted securities” that weren’t eligible for
contributions. Both plans involved setting up offshore vehicles
that issued securities to employees. The vehicles, which are no
longer used, invested in the shares of UBS and Deutsche Bank.  “This was a one-off arrangement from eight years ago and
hasn’t been repeated,” said Adrian Cox, spokesman for
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank. “We believe it met all the
requirements at the times.”  HMRC lawyer Nikky Fadero said the department wouldn’t
comment until the judges released a decision.  A week-long trial at the Upper Tribunal in  London  ended on
Feb. 28. There is no schedule for a ruling.  Industry Attacks Mandate for Fuel Additives Made From Plants  An oil and gas industry trade association asked a federal
appeals court to review a U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency 
regulation governing fuel additives including biological
materials.  The group, the American Petroleum Institute, is seeking to
overturn an EPA standard mandating the purchase of fuels
formulated in part from biological materials including
switchgrass, wood chips and agricultural waste.  The rule “forces refiners to purchase credits for
cellulosic fuels that do not exist,” the association Director
of Downstream and Industry Operations Bob Greco said yesterday
in a statement. The rule “is effectively a tax on manufacturers
of gasoline that could ultimately burden consumers.”  First passed in 2007, the regulation required refiners to
buy 250 million gallons of biofuel annually. Production failed
to reach that level and the agency reduced the target to 6.6
million for 2011, and 8.65 million for this year.  The Biotechnology Industry Organization backed the measure
in a letter to EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  last month,
stating the renewable-fuel standard was first developed in 2005
during the administration of President George W. Bush to drive
the continued development of the nation’s biofuels industry.  The standard “provides industry and investors with the
confidence of knowing that if they can produce advanced and
cellulosic biofuels, the RFS will ensure market access,” James Greenwood, president of the Washington-based group, told
Jackson.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the U.S.  Justice
Department , declined to comment on the legal challenge. The
petition was filed March 9 with the Washington-based U.S. Court
of Appeals.  The case is American Petroleum Institute v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 12-1139, U.S. Circuit Court for
the District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  J&J Said to Face Demand to Raise Risperdal Settlement Offer  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  faces a U.S. government demand to raise
its offer by $800 million from an initial proposal to settle a
federal civil investigation into marketing of the antipsychotic
Risperdal, according to three people familiar with the matter.  The Justice Department is demanding that J&J pay about $1.8
billion to resolve the civil claims by the U.S. and some states,
the people said. The company raised its offer to settle the
civil investigation to $1.3 billion by March 8, and negotiations
on a final amount are continuing, one person said.  The demand came after the Justice Department and states
decided that a $1 billion settlement that had been negotiated by
the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Philadelphia in late December
wasn’t adequate, according to the people, who weren’t authorized
to speak on the matter.  A $158 million settlement between J&J and the Texas
attorney general during a trial over Risperdal marketing in that
state increased the demands by other states and the Justice
Department, one of the people said. Several states wanted more
money because of the Texas agreement, the person said.  The U.S. government has been investigating Risperdal sales
practices since 2004, including allegations the company marketed
the drug for unapproved uses, J&J has said in Securities and
Exchange Commission  filings . The company said it has been in
negotiations with the U.S. to settle the investigation.  A J&J spokeswoman, Carol Goodrich, declined to comment.  The Justice Department expects to announce an accord in
May, said one person. The department typically announces civil
and criminal resolutions at the same time in corporate cases.  The number of states that will join the final agreement
remains in flux, one person said. Each state can decide whether
to join the federal government’s settlement or pursue its own
case.  For more, click here.  Foreclosure Settlement With Banks Filed in Federal Court  The $25 billion agreement with five banks to end federal
and state probes into abusive foreclosure practices was filed in
U.S. court in Washington, capping negotiations over the lenders’
liability for conduct after the housing bust.  The agreement subjects the lenders to monitoring by
officials plus penalties of as much as $1 million for each
violation, the U.S. Justice Department said. The consent
judgments will be in effect for 3 1/2 years, according to the
settlement terms.  The Justice Department yesterday filed in federal court the
proposed settlements along with a civil complaint against  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and three other banks.
The agreement needs approval from a federal judge.  In what the U.S. called the largest federal-state civil
settlement in the nation’s history, the banks have committed $20
billion in relief for borrowers plus payments of $5 billion to
states and the federal government. About $1.5 billion will go
toward payments to those who lost homes in foreclosure between
Jan. 1, 2008, and Dec. 31, 2011, the Justice Department said.  The deal comes more than a year after attorneys general
from all 50 states announced a probe into foreclosure practices
following disclosures that banks were using faulty documents to
seize homes.  The nation’s five largest mortgage servicers -- Bank of
America, JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Ally
Financial Inc. -- negotiated the settlement with federal
agencies, including the Justice Department, and 49 states.
Oklahoma reached a separate agreement and didn’t sign the
federal settlement.  Pension funds and other investors in mortgage-backed
securities condemned the settlement, saying it could cost
retirees and other “innocent parties” billions of dollars by
rewriting the contractual terms of their investments,
potentially lowering their value.  “It is unfair to settle claims against the robosigners
with other people’s funds,” the Association of Mortgage
Investors said in a written statement. “While we request that
it not be done, at a minimum we request that a meaningful cap be
placed on the dollar amount of the settlement satisfied by
innocent parties. Restitution should come from those who are
settling these claims, and lien priority must be respected.”  The case is U.S. V. Bank of America Corp., 12-00361, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  PG&E Reaches $70 Million Accord With San Bruno Over Blast  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  reached a $70 million settlement with the city
of San Bruno, California, over a 2010 pipeline explosion that
killed eight people, the largest natural-gas disaster in U.S.
history.  The settlement will support efforts to recover from the
blast, which destroyed 38 homes and damaged another 70, city
spokesman Sam Singer said yesterday in an e-mail.  The California Public Utility Commission said in January
that San Francisco-based PG&E’s violations of state and federal
safety laws led to the explosion.  PG&E, owner of California’s largest utility, confirmed the
settlement in a  regulatory filing , saying it will contribute $70
million to a not-for-profit entity set up to benefit the city.
The company’s Pacific Gas & Electric Co. unit won’t seek to
recover the money through insurance or customer rates, PG&E
said.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 