-- Petrobras Output Target at Risk as Brazil Favors Local Business
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-03-13T15:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/petrobras-output-goal-risked-as-brazil-boosts-dependence-on-local-supplies.html
Sembcorp Marine Ltd. (SMM) , the
Singapore-based oil services company, is building its first
shipyard in Brazil to protect market share as state-controlled
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  awards more contracts to local suppliers.  Sembcorp is competing with billionaire  Eike Batista ’s  OSX
Brasil SA (OSXB3)  and  Keppel Corp. Ltd (KEP)  for more than $30 billion of
drilling vessels that Petrobras will deploy in the Atlantic
Ocean within the next eight years. Half the 65 deepwater
drillships the company needs by then must be made in Brazil,
according to regulations intended to boost local manufacturers.  Petrobras is battling the twin challenge of extracting
billions of barrels of oil trapped under the seabed while
starting from scratch a shipbuilding industry intended to create
jobs and reduce the company’s dependence on foreign suppliers.
Delays receiving rigs last year caused Petrobras to miss oil
output targets, and the risks are mounting as the world’s
biggest offshore oil development gathers momentum.  “As a country it’s a huge challenge because it isn’t a
simple industry,” Jorge Roberto Goncalves, head of shipbuilder
Estaleiro Ilha SA, said in a March 6 interview. “ Brazil  has
naval experience, but very centered around Rio de Janeiro. We
have to extend it to the whole country.”  Petrobras, which operates the largest fleet of production
platforms at a single company, plans to triple its drilling
vessels by 2020. Those built in Brazil will have as much as 65
percent of so-called local content. The company expects 2020
output of 6.4 million barrels a day, about equal to OPEC members
Angola, Nigeria and  Venezuela  combined. The Rio de Janeiro-based
company currently produces about 2.7 million barrels a day.  Lula Rules  Petrobras needs to purchase as much as 70 percent of its
equipment from domestic suppliers to meet local content rules
set out by former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva . The goal
is to help drag 28 million people out of poverty, or about 15
percent of the country’s 190 million-strong population.  Brazilian manufacturers will struggle to deliver the
equipment as fast and as cheaply as established shipbuilders in
 South Korea  because of a lack of experience, said Kjeld Aabo, a
Rio de Janeiro-based manager for offshore equipment at MAN
Diesel & Turbo, a division of  MAN SE (MAN)  that is competing to
provide the engines and power generators to propel the 33
drillships Petrobras is ordering from domestic yards.  “Nobody can compare with the Korean yards,” Aabo said in
a telephone interview, adding that construction costs in Brazil
are likely to be about 20 percent higher than at foreign yards.
“In Brazil they’re basically starting from scratch,” he said.  Local Content  ABS Consulting, which certifies the amount of local content
in Brazilian oil equipment, expanded its staff fivefold to 25
auditors since opening the department in 2008 and plans to
continue hiring, Thereza Moreira, the company’s head of local
content, said in a March 6 interview in Rio de Janeiro.  “They need to invest here in Brazil,” Moreira said.  Brazil has had mixed success restricting imports to bolster
domestic industries. High tariffs on imported aircraft helped
turn  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  into the world’s fourth-biggest airplane maker.
The country banned imported computers in the 1980s to foster
local technology, only to ditch the policy after slow and
expensive local processors handicapped industry.  The U.S. and  China , the world’s two largest oil consumers,
are counting on Brazil to increase exports and ease dependence
on producers in more volatile areas such as the Middle East and
Venezuela. U.S. President  Barack Obama , in a visit to Brazil in
March 2011, said he wanted his country to become one of Brazil’s
“best customers” as the country ramps up oil production.  Curb Poverty  Brazil expects oil revenue to curb poverty in Latin
America’s most populous nation as growing exports finance
federal and state budgets. The new shipyards and ports get
subsidized government financing to help create new jobs.  Employment at Brazilian shipyards has surged threefold over
the past five years to 59,167 at the end of 2011, according to
Sinaval, Brazil’s shipbuilders association. Employment is up
from 1,900 in 2000 after the government required local
construction and offered subsidized loans. The construction and
expansion of new yards will add at least 15,000 jobs by 2014,
according to a presentation on Sinaval’s website.  Petrobras set up a new company, Sete Brasil, to finance the
construction of the rigs and then lease them back to Petrobras.
Sete plans to earn nearly $80 billion from renting 30 units over
the next two decades.  ‘Disconnect’  “Unfortunately for Petrobras there’s a bit of disconnect
in what their goals are,” Shannon Moran, a  Latin America  oil
analyst at Wood Mackenzie, said in a telephone interview. “The
Brazilian government is very focused on the local content side,
and at some point would be willing to let production targets
slide in favor of meeting their local content requirements.”  Output rose 1.5 percent in 2011 to 2.6 million barrels a
day of oil and natural gas on average, the slowest pace of
growth since 2007 and below its 7.7 percent target. Petrobras
only received half of the 12 rigs it had ordered that are
capable of operating in waters at least 2,000 meters (6,562
feet) deep. Former Chief Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli
blamed the delivery delays on bottlenecks at foreign suppliers.  Petrobras is also already struggling to meet requirements
to buy rigs, platforms and vessels from local suppliers. The Rio
Grande shipyard plans to deliver P-55, a $1.7 billion platform
capable of producing 180,000 barrels a day in deep waters, about
two years behind the original delivery date in early 2013. The
Atlantico Sul shipyard is more than a year behind schedule
building the first Suezmax tanker for Petrobras’ transport unit.  ‘Completely Booked’  “All the shipyards from north to south are completely
booked, they have no availability,” said Adriano Bravo, chief
executive officer of Petra Executive Search, a headhunter for
Brazil’s oil industry. “It’s very difficult for the government
to meet production targets under existing local content rules.”  Companies are setting up in Brazil to fill the capacity
void. STX OSV Holdings Ltd, the biggest maker of oil-rig support
vessels, and Batista’s OSX started building new yards last year.
MAN’s Aabo says the company will also set up an assembly plant
in Brazil to meet the regulations if it wins enough work.  Petrobras Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster
is having her office directly monitor progress at the shipyards
to try and keep projects on track, she told reporters March 5.  Delays “are perhaps the biggest risk in these types of
enterprises,” Sete Brasil President Joao Carlos Ferraz said in
an e-mailed response to questions. The company has set up
partnerships to have more experienced companies operate its
vessels to help improve efficiency, he said.  ‘Have to Build’  Brazil is offering cut-rate loans to accelerate the oil
services industry. Batista’s OSX has obtained subsidized loans
from the Merchant Marine Fund to complete construction of the
yard. Brazil’s BNDES development bank has set up several lending
programs to accelerate growth in oil equipment suppliers.  “Foreign companies would much rather supply from abroad,
but this isn’t what the BNDES is interested in,” Ricardo Cunha
da Costa, the head of the BNDES’s oil and gas supply chain
department, said in an interview last month at the bank’s
headquarters in  Rio de Janeiro . “They have to build
infrastructure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  