-- Polish February Price Growth Exceeds Economist Forecasts
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-03-13T16:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/polish-february-consumer-price-growth-exceeds-economist-forecasts-on-gdp.html
Polish  consumer prices  rose faster
than economists forecast in February as growth in the European
Union’s biggest eastern economy outpaces government projections.  Inflation was 4.3 percent, compared with 4.1 percent in
January, the  Central Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today.
That’s more than the 4.2 percent median estimate of 28
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Prices advanced 0.4 percent
from the previous month.  The Narodowy Bank Polski left its benchmark interest rate
at 4.5 percent for a ninth month on March 7. The inflation rate
is falling “too slowly” to satisfy rate setters, Governor
 Marek Belka  told the Rzeczpospolita newspaper in an interview
published today. Price growth has exceeded the 3.5 percent upper
limit of the bank’s tolerance range since January 2011.  Today’s data reinforce the bank’s increased 2012 inflation
projection, published yesterday, Monika Kurtek, chief economist
at Bank Pocztowy in Warsaw, said by phone. “Taming inflation
won’t be easy,” especially after “base effects disappear.”  The zloty fell to as low as 4.131 per euro after today’s
report from 4.113 before it was released. The data “came as
expected,” the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement.
Inflation will slow to less than 4 percent next month, it added.  Prices will rise 4.1 percent this year, according to the
central bank’s revised inflation outlook, 1 percentage point
more than a projection it made in November.  The prospects for inflation this year have “significantly
worsened,” monetary-policy maker Elzbieta Chojna-Duch said in a
March 10 interview, adding that high prices and concerns over
how much the economy will slow justify maintaining a “wait-and-
see” bias with regard to rates.  February inflation was driven by a 4.5 percent gain in food
prices and a 17.2 percent increase in retail fuel costs.  The figures support the view that “ interest-rate  cuts
aren’t possible in the coming months,” said Jaroslaw Janecki,
chief economist at Societe Generale SA in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net 
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  