-- Private Equity’s Foreclosures for Hot Rentals Net 8%
-- B y   E d w a r d   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-03-13T15:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/private-equity-s-foreclosures-for-hot-rentals-net-8-correct-.html
Ken Major climbs the steps of a
county courthouse in a  San Francisco  suburb with $500,000 in
cashier’s checks in one hand and a list of addresses in the
other. Major is a buyer for Waypoint Real Estate Group LLC, an
Oakland-based investment firm that’s scooping up foreclosed
homes in California.  On this December afternoon, he joins a dozen house flippers
as an auctioneer starts hawking the latest batch of  defaulted 
properties to hit the market. Major bids on a three-bedroom
house in Antioch, and after other buyers counter, he wins at
$147,600.  “We got it,” he mutters into a mobile-phone mic dangling
from his ear. The house was valued at more than $400,000 in
2006, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its April issue.  Waypoint, a private-equity real-estate fund with $150
million in assets, is pioneering a new approach to making money
from the housing crash. Since 2007, investors have been trolling
the cratered suburbs stretching from  California  to  Florida (SPCSMIA)  for
cheap houses to flip. And firms such as PennyMac Mortgage
Investment Trust have sought value in subprime-mortgage-backed
securities.  Waypoint, which owns 1,100 houses and is buying five more a
day, is betting that converting foreclosures into rentals is a
better way to make a profit. Other firms, such as Landsmith LP
in San Francisco, are now cropping up and pursuing the same
strategy in  Arizona , California and  Nevada .  ‘Yields Are Awesome’  With many suburban homes selling for half their  peak values 
and demand for rentals from prospective tenants climbing,
Waypoint was earning an 8 to 9 percent return on its capital as
of Dec. 31, according to a quarterly report it sends to clients.
That beats the 6.3 percent gain in the  BI NA Multifamily REIT (BRFREITC) 
Index, which tracks the performance of 27 apartment building
operators.  Should property values rebound, Waypoint may earn at least
20 percent from appreciation in an eventual sale of the houses,
says Colin Wiel, who co-founded the firm in 2008 after backing
technology startups as an angel investor.  “I never thought I’d be rolling up single-family homes,”
Wiel says. “But the yields are awesome.”  Wiel and Waypoint co-founder Doug Brien make an unlikely
pair of real-estate entrepreneurs. Wiel, 45, is a mechanical
engineer who designed braking systems for jetliners at  Boeing
Co. (BA)  in the 1990s. And Brien, 41, is a former placekicker who won
a  Super Bowl  with the San Francisco 49ers in 1995 before earning
a postgraduate degree in business at Tulane University in  New
Orleans .  $3 Trillion Market  In starting Waypoint, Wiel and Brien set out to show
institutional investors that by using technology they could
amass single-family homes the same way Sam Zell’s  Equity Group
Investments Inc. (EQR)  and other real-estate giants gather apartment
units in cities from  New York  to San Francisco.  The home rental market boasts a total property value of $3
trillion, according to  Morgan Stanley (MS)  housing analyst Oliver Chang. Yet institutions have long shunned it as too scattered
and impractical to be profitable.  Wiel and Brien are using  cloud computing , proprietary
algorithms and  iPads  to create a virtual assembly line for
buying, renovating and renting houses on a large scale. They’re
also betting that many former homeowners who have jobs but
couldn’t afford their mortgages will still want to live in the
same communities as renters.  “The economics never made sense for a big investor to come
into the market, and the technology for managing all that
complexity didn’t previously exist,” says Brien, who still
possesses the steely stare of a field goal kicker. “The
confluence of those two events has provided a window of
opportunity for large investors to enter this space.”  Acquire And Convert  Last year,  Columbia University ’s $8 billion endowment
invested $25 million with Waypoint. In January, GI Partners, a
Menlo Park, California-based private-equity firm that manages
money for the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  and
other pension plans, agreed to invest up to $400 million with
Waypoint and acquire a minority stake in the firm.  The same month, Oaktree Capital Management LP, the  Los
Angeles  investment firm co-founded by billionaire Howard Marks,
announced a $450 million deal with Santa Ana, California-based
Carrington Capital Management LLC to acquire and convert
 foreclosed single-family homes  into rental properties.
Carrington already rents out more than 3,000 houses in
California and other states.  Labor Intensive  Starwood Capital Group LLC (HOT)  is poised to enter the
foreclosure-to-rental market, according to an investor familiar
with its plans. So, too, is Zell and the real-estate arm of
Apollo Investment Management LLC.  Spokespersons for Zell, Apollo and Starwood declined to
comment.  “Until last year, single-family-home rentals was a mom and
pop market,” says Stephen Duffy, an investment banker at Moss-
Adams Capital LLC, an Irvine, California-based firm that
finances real-estate investments. “Now, it’s grabbed the
attention of institutional private equity because foreclosures
haven’t cleared and these properties can generate high yields
for years.”  Waypoint and its rivals may eventually spin off pools of
single-family home rentals into real estate investment trusts.
Still, even the best technology cannot replace the labor-
intensive process of acquiring and leasing thousands of houses
scattered across scores of zip codes.  Nascent Market  Waypoint’s researchers must plumb school desirability
ratings, crime statistics and other hyperlocal data to ascertain
the income value of each house. Its title agents must often
disentangle foreclosures from  second mortgages  and liens. And
leasing representatives have to find qualified renters in
communities struggling with high unemployment rates.  “This is a nascent market, and the model still hasn’t
proved out,” says Rick Magnuson, executive managing director of
GI Partners, which has $6 billion under management. “But we
believe this rental strategy will produce good  economic returns 
for our investors and help arrest the housing market’s slide.”  The Obama administration is poised to tap the foreclosure-
to-rental approach as officials struggle to turn around the
housing market. The president’s push to have mortgage providers
make loans more affordable for homeowners has done little to
stem foreclosures, says Ginna Green, a spokeswoman for the
Center for Responsible Lending, a Durham, North Carolina-based
consumer advocacy organization.  Worst Is Over  There were almost 2 million  U.S. foreclosures  in 2011, down
31 percent from 2010. As many as 10 million borrowers may
default over the next few years if the markets continue to
deteriorate, says  Laurie Goodman , an analyst at Amherst
Securities Group LP in New York. Even though  mortgage rates  are
hovering at a historic low of 3.8 percent, consumers bought only
324,000  new homes  last year, the poorest annual performance
since 1963.  On Feb. 9, the U.S. Department of Justice and 49 states
agreed to end a probe into abusive mortgage practices at Bank of
America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and three other banks after
striking a $25 billion settlement with the companies. The
landmark agreement, which will provide debt relief to
homeowners, should help rescue many  delinquent borrowers  and
buoy the confidence of would-be homebuyers and lenders that the
worst is over, says Ivy Zelman, CEO of Zelman & Associates LLC?,
a Cleveland-based research firm.  Repossessed Homes  Even so, the settlement may not be large enough to reboot a
housing market saddled with $700 billion in underwater
mortgages. She says institutional investors eyeing the rental
market have the capital to absorb thousands of dwellings and
slow the market’s decline.  Investors are already having an effect: The supplies of
homes for sale in  Phoenix (SPCSPHXS) ,  Orlando ,  Florida  and other hard-hit
markets have fallen more than 60 percent from their post-crash
highs as bargain hunters scoop up foreclosures.  “Investors are aggressive about buying these homes in
front of the government program,” Zelman says.  In August, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  asked
investors for input on setting up a foreclosure-to-rental
program to offload some of the 180,000 repossessed homes held by
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the troubled government-sponsored
mortgage giants.  Barclays Capital ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and Waypoint were among the hundreds of
firms that submitted proposals to the FHFA spelling out how
investors could participate in such an initiative, according to
information obtained by Bloomberg News through a Freedom of
Information Act request.  Investors’ Zeal  Wiel says the agency may auction pools of properties to
investors, perhaps coupled with federally guaranteed financing
that lowers their cost of capital significantly. The Resolution
Trust Corp. employed a similar policy in the early 1990s to sell
off mortgages held by failed savings and loan banks.  On Feb. 27, the FHFA unveiled a pilot program to sell
repossessed houses in Los Angeles, Phoenix,  Florida (SPCSMIA)  and other
hard-hit markets to investors who qualify with the agency.
Waypoint submitted an application. “This could be a total game
changer for us,” Wiel says.  It’s striking that  Washington  is looking to  Wall Street  for
answers after investors’ zeal for  subprime mortgages  helped
foment the housing morass, Green says. She says a boom in
rentals may encourage mortgage lenders to foreclose on
delinquent homeowners instead of reworking their loans to be
more affordable.  Still, she says, leasing defaulted houses does reduce the
corrosive impact they have on communities. “Nobody wins when
houses are empty,” Green says.  Shoe-Leather World  Wiel and Brien, both graduates of the  University of
California , Berkeley, met at an angel investing conference Wiel
was hosting in  San Francisco (SPCSSF)  in 2008. They talked about the
housing crash and agreed that plunging property values in the
Bay Area’s bedroom communities presented an irresistible
opportunity. So they set up a company with $1 million of their
own money and acquired 26 houses during the next six months.  From the outset, the duo applied  technology  to a business
rooted in the shoe-leather world of appraisals, home inspections
and foreclosure sales on courthouse steps.  “We asked, ‘How do we systematize and automate everything?
How do we scale?’” says Wiel, an upbeat man who’s fond of
techie lingo. By 2011, they had hired almost 100 employees and
raised more than $90 million from investors in seven funds. It’s
midmorning on Dec. 14, and Waypoint’s office in a downtown
Oakland high-rise is bustling with activity.  Most Desirable  In a warren of cubicles, leasing reps sporting telephone
headsets talk with potential renters. A half dozen members of
the home-acquisitions team are crammed into a bullpen outfitted
with a brass bell that’s rung with gusto every time a new house
is bought. Doug Pankey, a longtime appraiser who helps run the
team, reviews the foreclosures slated for auction this afternoon
on two computer screens.  Waypoint uses a combination of its own proprietary
algorithms and business software from San Francisco-based
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  to turn potential acquisitions into rentals.
Pankey zeroes in on a three-bedroom residence in a middle-class
 subdivision  of Antioch, a San Francisco suburb of 102,000
residents.  The house appears in the center of a red, pulsing orb on a
Waypoint heat map that highlights the town’s most-desirable
blocks. The house needs $20,000 in renovation, has no  liens  and
earns a 92 out of 100 on Waypoint’s Geographic Scoring System.  Home Rescue  This proprietary program ranks potential acquisitions by
factoring in location, proximity to freeways and commuter trains
and the home’s historical property-value performance. Pankey
watches as the program calculates that with a maximum bid of
$150,293, Waypoint can rent the residence for $1,799 a month and
earn a 7.7 percent annual return.  Pankey’s buyer, Ken Major, is looking at the same Antioch
house profile on his iPad outside the Contra Costa County
courthouse, 27 miles (43 kilometers) away, ready to bid.
Waypoint maintains all of its property profiles on an online
cloud  database  so agents in the field and supervisors at
headquarters can access and update them in real time.  A month after buying the house for about $2,700 less than
that maximum bid, Waypoint outfitted it with a new kitchen,
carpeting and landscaping.  Many of the firm’s conversions don’t go as smoothly. On a
warm January morning, James Gordon sets out to visit almost a
dozen Waypoint houses that may still be occupied. Gordon, a
former mortgage broker, is a home rescue specialist who
negotiates with occupants to determine whether they can be
converted into renters, paid $1,000 to move out or be evicted.  Family Pictures  About a third of Waypoint’s homes are occupied by the
former homeowners themselves, with one out of four staying on as
tenants. Waypoint offers to set aside a percentage of any
tenant’s rent so that money can later be used toward a home
purchase.  Most of the time, occupants have to leave within 15 days of
Waypoint’s purchase because they can’t afford the rent or choose
to go. Gordon returns to one residence where a family has
refused to move out for six months as they pursue a legal claim
that they’re the victims of mortgage fraud. No one’s home, but
two brand-new radio-controlled toy cars sit under the Christmas
tree and family pictures line the mantle. Gordon sighs. It’s
going to take more time before Waypoint earns a return on this
property.  At another house, a woman refuses to open the door for
Gordon. It turns out she’s one of six different tenants renting
rooms there. Speaking through the door, Gordon says she may be
able to stay on as a Waypoint renter, but she rebuffs him.  Fiscal Stress  “I’m not trying to be a bad guy, but if you don’t come to
an agreement with us, we’ll have to move forward with the
eviction process,” Gordon says as he slips his business card
under the door.  For all of the cloud computing, the business of converting
foreclosures into rentals is often about dealing with households
under enormous  fiscal stress . Waypoint employs former financial
counselors from nonprofit organizations to help tenants repair
their credit and even set up household budgets so they don’t
fall behind in their rent.  As Waypoint triples the number of houses it buys daily and
expands in California and possibly Nevada, Arizona and  Illinois ,
it will have to hire dozens of appraisers, leasing agents and
other personnel. The firm will have to shoulder these upfront
labor costs before its new funds can earn a profit.  New Industry  “That pulls a lot of inefficiencies into the strategy and
that can be expensive,” says Chris Hentemann, managing partner
of 400 Capital Management LLC, a New York-based hedge fund with
$350 million in assets that invests in  mortgage-backed
securities.   In April, Waypoint launched a fund to reboot  foreclosures 
in Southern California, and in the third quarter, it recorded
$324,327 in operating expenses on $23,920 in rental revenue.  A few days before Christmas, the mood is festive at
Waypoint’s holiday party. Wiel and Brien hand out thank-you
cards with bonuses as employees pile barbecue, chili verde and
brownies onto paper plates. Taking the floor, Wiel says the
housing market has only worked through half its backlog of
foreclosures and the firm will double its head count as it opens
new offices.  “We are at the birth of a new industry,” he says to
applause.  Worth the Trouble  Such enthusiasm can be found at many startups anticipating
explosive growth. While Waypoint’s strategy is now drawing
interest from Wall Street and Washington, Wiel and Brien still
must bring order to the inefficient business of turning around
foreclosures. And they’ll have to show investors that the
endeavor is worth the trouble.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Robinson in San Francisco at   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Colby in New York at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  