-- Brandon Marshall Traded to Bears as Free Agency Gets Under Way
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/pro-bowl-receiver-brandon-marshall-traded-to-bears-from-dolphins.html
The  Miami Dolphins  traded Pro Bowl
wide receiver  Brandon Marshall  to the  Chicago Bears  for two
draft picks and the  New Orleans Saints  signed receiver Marques Colston to a five-year contract.  The  New York Jets  announced yesterday, as the National
Football League’s free-agent signing period began, that they had
agreed in principle with linebacker Bryan Thomas on a new
contract. Thomas, who joined the Jets as a first-round draft
pick in 2002, is the longest-tenured member of the team.  “Bryan has meant a lot to this organization over his 10
seasons and we are excited he will continue his career here,”
General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said in a statement released by
the Jets. “He is a versatile defender who is adept as a pass
rusher and against the run.”  The Dolphins parted ways with Marshall, who has had at
least 80 catches and 1,000 yards receiving in each of the past
five seasons, as they try to sign free-agent quarterback Peyton Manning.  The Bears didn’t say which round the draft picks are in.
FoxSports.com, which first reported the swap, said it involved
two third-round choices.  Marshall, 27, was traded to the Dolphins from the Denver
Broncos in April 2010 and was selected for the  Pro Bowl  last
season for the third time after catching 81 passes for 1,214
yards and six touchdowns.  Marshall’s move to Chicago reunites him with Bears
quarterback  Jay Cutler . Marshall had a career-high 1,325 yards
in 2007 and 1,265 in 2008, when both players were on the Broncos.  Manning’s Options  Manning met with Dolphins coach Joe Philbin and other team
personnel for almost six hours two nights ago, according to
ESPN.com. Having already met with the Broncos and Arizona
Cardinals, he was also planning to visit with the Tennessee
Titans, ESPN said.  Colston, who went to New York’s Hofstra University, had 80
receptions for 1,143 yards last season. He has 449 receptions
for 6,240 yards in six seasons with  New Orleans , including 48
touchdown catches.  “This was important to me, to be back with this team in
this situation,” Colston said in a statement released by the
Saints. “I was not looking to chase free agency; it was more
important for me to be back in our program, a program we have
been building and a program I believe in.”  The Saints did not release contract details. ESPN reported
the deal is worth about $40 million.  “Since we drafted Marques in 2006, he’s been everything
that we are looking for in a New Orleans Saint as a player and a
person,” General Manager Mickey Loomis said in a statement
released by the team. “Credit goes to Marques for wanting to
get this deal done before free agency started.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 