-- Prudential Can’t Compete in U.S. With Euro Rules, CEO Say
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-03-13T17:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/prudential-full-year-profit-rises-7-on-earnings-gains-in-asia-division.html
Prudential Plc (PRU)  won’t be able to
compete in the U.S. under the current draft of  Europe ’s Solvency
II regulations, which may force the U.K.’s biggest insurer to
leave Britain, Chief Executive Officer  Tidjane Thiam  said.  “The U.S. is a reasonable place, with a reasonable
solvency regime and we all want the EU to accept that,” Thiam,
49, said on a conference call with reporters today. “If it
doesn’t, then it will ask us to run our businesses in the U.S.
on a Solvency II basis, and I can tell you fighting U.S.
competitors who don’t have to do that -- we just won’t have a
market. We won’t be able to sell any products at all.”  European Union insurers may have to hold more capital
within their U.S. divisions under Solvency II. Prudential, which
gets 35 percent of its revenue from the U.S., is threatening to
move its headquarters outside the U.K. to avoid the new rules,
which will be adopted next year ahead of full implementation in
2014. Competitors with American business such as  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Axa
SA (CS) , and  Aegon NV (AGN)  are also lobbying the EU to change the rules to
exempt insurers’ operations in the U.S., Thiam said.  The company’s board is reviewing Prudential’s domicile as a
precautionary measure, the insurer said today in a statement.
Due to the uncertainty around Solvency II, the insurer can’t say
when it will reach a decision, Thiam said.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  and London Mayor Boris Johnson
support Prudential staying U.K.-based. Cameron said last week
that the rules are “ill thought-out,” and he would pressure
the EU to change tack.  British Company  “This is not a debate about London at all,” Thiam said.
“It’s a debate about things that are happening in Brussels. We
love the U.K. We’re a British company. We’ve been here for 150
years. Without Solvency II we would not be having this debate.”  Prudential also reported earnings today. The insurer’s
shares  rose 4.8 percent  in  London  trading after 2011 profit beat
analysts’  estimates , with the company’s Asian business becoming
the largest contributor to earnings for the first time.  Operating profit rose 7 percent to 2.07 billion pounds
($3.2 billion) in the 12 months to Dec. 31, surpassing the 2.02
billion-pound median estimate of 13 analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. Net income increased 4 percent to 1.49 billion pounds
for the year, Prudential said.  “The numbers look good due to high growth in  Asia ,” said
 Marcus Barnard , a London-based analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd.
with a “buy” rating on the stock. “The shares continue to
offer good value.”  ‘Optionality’ Stock Boost  Prudential is “on track” to meet its self-imposed cash
and capital generation targets for 2013, Thiam said. Once those
targets are achieved, there will be the “optionality” to break
up the insurer, whose divisions include the U.K., U.S., and
Asian arms and the fund-management unit, he told analysts at a
presentation in  Kuala Lumpur  in November.  “When you have an option, the market recognizes that and
puts it in your price,” Thiam said today. “To jump from that
to say the group will be broken up is a mistake. We cannot
predict what we will do in two or three years. We’ll do whatever
creates the most value.”  Prudential Plc has no relation to Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential Financial Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 