-- Rajan Says Greek Bailout Fails to Resolve European Debt Crisis
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-13T19:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/rajan-says-greek-bailout-fails-to-resolve-european-debt-crisis.html
Raghuram Rajan , professor at the
 University of Chicago  and former chief economist of the
 International Monetary Fund , said the latest bailout of  Greece 
won’t resolve Europe’s debt crisis.  “The  European Central Bank  has bought some time for the
politicians,” Rajan said on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “Unfortunately, every time they
buy time the politicians do not use it well. I think we are
again in that kind of situation where we are sort of struggling
for a longer-term solution.”  The European Central Bank has made three-year loans to the
region’s lenders in a bid to avert a credit crunch after the
market for unsecured bank debt seized up last year. Euro-area
finance ministers signed off on a second Greek bailout, clearing
the way for the first payment from the 130 billion-euro package
($170 billion) to be made this month.  The IMF’s financial role in  Europe  may be smaller than its
region’s policy makers would like, he said. “The IMF is facing
a lot of pressure from its membership, which is basically
saying, you have gotten too involved,” and Europe needs to lead
“in solving its own crisis,” Rajan said.  The International Monetary Fund said March 8 that while the
economic program in Greece is “ambitious,” authorities are
making steady progress and plan to have reforms in place “as
soon as possible.”  Portugal faces many of the same concerns Greece has, while
Ireland is “more competitive today” though still struggling,
said Rajan, author of “Fault Lines,” a look at why the
financial order is prone to creating bubbles.  Portugal Versus Greece  “I think if you look at  Portugal , it has the same problem
that Greece has, which is relatively slow growth, a very high
euro, an uncompetitive economy and clearly very high levels of
debt,” he said. “So Portugal is going to struggle to deal with
its issues.”  Ireland has “a very different set of problems from
Greece,” the economist said. “In Ireland, the problem is not
so much the government has got into trouble but the government,
by supporting the banking sector debt, has in a sense bitten off
more than it can chew.”  While financial upheaval can result in economic disruption,
a growing risk has become political turmoil, Rajan said.  “We usually think of the financial sector as the source of
contagion and it still might be,” Rajan said. “But as
important now is the political atmosphere,” such as “riots in
the streets of Greece.”  Greece is now in line to receive more than 100 billion
euros in the next three years from the European Financial
Stability Facility, the euro region’s temporary rescue fund,
after euro-area finance ministers signed off on the bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  