-- Randy Moss to Make NFL Return on 1-Year San Francisco 49ers Deal
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-03-13T04:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/randy-moss-to-end-nfl-retirement-join-san-francisco-49ers-espn-reports.html
Randy Moss  ended his seven-month
retirement from the  National Football League  by joining the San
Francisco 49ers on a one-year contract.  The six-time Pro Bowl wide receiver, who is tied with
Terrell Owens for second on the NFL career list with 153
touchdown catches, worked out for the 49ers yesterday afternoon
and had signed with the team by the evening.  “It really was a no-brainer for me to come and play for
the 49ers,” Moss said in a conference call last night. “I just
want to get back to what I do, playing football and stretching
the field.”  Moss announced his plan to make a comeback on Feb. 13, his
35th birthday. He retired Aug. 1 after 13 NFL seasons with the
 Minnesota Vikings ,  Oakland Raiders , New England Patriots and
Tennessee Titans. He has 14,858 receiving yards, fifth on the
NFL career list, and is ninth with 954 receptions.  Moss, who worked out for the New Orleans Saints last week,
said the timing of his announcement had nothing to do with
today’s opening of the NFL free-agent signing period.  “I’m not a free agent,” he said. “I’m a guy straight off
the couch, straight off the streets.”  The 49ers reached the National Football Conference
championship game in January, losing in overtime to the  New York
Giants . Their passing game ranked 29th among the 32 NFL teams
during the 2011 regular season.  “We are pleased to add a player with Randy’s wealth of
experience to our receiving corps,” 49ers General Manager Trent
Baalke said in a team release. “Randy’s productivity over the
course of his career speaks for itself. We look forward to
integrating him into our system.”  Moss caught passes during his workout from 49ers coach  Jim Harbaugh , a former NFL quarterback. Harbaugh, 48, was pressed
into duty because current players cannot participate in workouts
until the league year begins today.  “He can still bring it at his old age,” Moss said of
Harbaugh. “He’s probably sitting there with an icepack now, but
he can still bring it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  