-- Rand Weakens as South Africa’s Mining Output Falls; Bonds Gain
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-13T14:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/rand-weakens-as-south-africa-s-mining-output-falls-bonds-gain.html
The rand weakened after a report
showed mining production slumped, increasing speculation of
slowing growth in  Africa ’s biggest economy. The bond due 2021
rose for a second day.  The currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 7.5583 per dollar
as of 4:51 p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the nation’s 77
billion rand ($10 billion) of 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.82 percent.  Mine output dropped 2.5 percent in January from a year
earlier, Statistics South Africa reported, while gold production
slumped 11 percent. Retail sales growth slowed in January to the
lowest rate in six months, a report tomorrow will show,
according to the median estimate of nine economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  “The lackluster performance in mining production bodes ill
for our growth,” Tebogo Mosepele, an analyst at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “The
contraction of mining production is rand-negative from both a
growth differential and a balance of payments perspective.”  Metals and other raw materials account for 65 percent of
 South Africa ’s exports and the  mining industry  is the biggest
private-sector employer, according to government data. South
Africa has the world’s biggest mineral reserves, according to
Citigroup Inc., and is the biggest producer of platinum and
chrome.  Mining plays a “critical role” in South Africa’s economic
development, President  Jacob Zuma  said Feb. 10, when he
announced a 300 billion-rand ($40 billion) program to upgrade
roads and railways. South Africa has a 24 percent unemployment
rate, the highest among more than 60 countries tracked by
Bloomberg.  The U.S. Federal Reserve meets today to review monetary
policy after a report showed American retail sales rose in
February by the most in five months.  “It is usual for markets to go into hibernation before a
Fed meeting so market moves today might be limited,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  