-- Rare-Earth Complaint May Backfire for U.S., Lifton Says
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-03-14T20:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/rare-earth-complaint-may-backfire-for-u-s-lifton-says.html
A complaint filed at the  World
Trade Organization  over Chinese rare-earth export quotas may
backfire on the U.S., according to Jack Lifton, a consultant who
advises rare-earth companies.  If the WTO compels China to raise exports, it will “create
a monster competitor” to  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , the sole U.S. rare-
earth producer, Lifton, co-founder of Technology Metals
Research, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Why do they
want to do that?”  The U.S., the European Union and Japan requested
consultations with China, President  Barack Obama  said yesterday.
Such talks are a precursor to asking the WTO to rule on the
issue. China, which accounts for at least 90 percent of global
rare-earth supplies, has curbed output and exports since 2009,
causing prices to soar. The 17 chemically similar metallic
elements are used in applications ranging from  wind turbines  to
guided missiles and hybrid car batteries.  Molycorp owns the Mountain Pass mine in  California , the
largest rare-earths deposit outside of China. The U.S. company
is restarting the mine and is expanding its capacity. Molycorp
is also building a center at the site to process the minerals.  While the U.S. has Mountain Pass and other rare-earth
deposits, it lacks sufficient manufacturing capacity to take the
commodities and make them into rare-earth products such as
magnets, Lifton said. Any change in Chinese exports may benefit
Europe and  Japan , where there is more manufacturing capacity, he
said.  Neo Acquisition  “We don’t have the rest of the supply chain,” Lifton
said. If China increases exports, “the U.S. gets nothing,
Molycorp gets nothing,” he said.  Molycorp said March 8 it agreed to purchase  Neo Material
Technologies Inc. (NEM) , a Canadian processor of rare earths and
magnetic materials, for about C$1.3 billion ($1.31 billion). The
deal will add to Molycorp’s rare-earth manufacturing capability
and expand its access to customers in China. Neo has two rare-
earth processing plants in China.  Molycorp fell 2.7 percent to $30.01 at the close in  New
York . The stock has dropped 34 percent in the past 12 months.
The  Bloomberg Rare Earth Mineral Resources Index (BNREMRS) , which tracks
21 rare-earth companies, fell 40 percent in that time.  China curbed rare-earth supplies to address environmental
concerns and to extend control over more of production for
domestic consumption. The nation is already planning to
consolidate its rare-earths industry into two to three
companies, Shanghai Securities News reported March 12, citing
Miao Wei, Minister of Industry and Information Technology. Miao
didn’t give a time period for the move, the publication said.  Scarce Deposits  While the rarest of elements are more common in the earth’s
crust than gold and the most abundant are about as well-
represented as copper and zinc, they only occur in
concentrations that are economic to mine in a few places,
according to the U.S. Geological Survey.  The WTO may find that  China  is entitled to protect a
limited rare-earth resource, said  Jonathan Hykawy , an analyst
with Byron Capital Markets Ltd. in Toronto. One source of
China’s rare earths is a type of mineral deposit only found in a
handful of places on earth, he said.  “They have an argument that it’s a limited and dwindling
resource and they have no option but to try to protect it,”
Hykawy said in a telephone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  