-- Treasury Yields Rise to Year High as Fed Says Economy Improves
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-03-13T21:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/treasuries-remain-lower-after-fed-says-u-s-employment-market-is-improving.html
Treasury (YCGT0025)  yields rose to the highest
level this year after Federal Reserve policy makers raised their
assessment of the economy as the labor market gathers strength
and refrained from new actions to lower borrowing costs.  Yields on  10-year notes  rose earlier for a fifth day, the
longest stretch of increases since January, after a report
showed retail sales increased the most in five months. The gain
in yields bolstered demand at a government sale of $21 billion
of the securities. The auction’s bid-to-cover ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of notes
offered, was 3.24, compared with 3.1 for the past 10 sales.  “The Fed begrudgingly acknowledged improvement in the
economy,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York
at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “Acknowledging now that
things are getting better and we may not need to do what we’re
doing will invigorate confidence in the economy. That’s what we
need, confidence, that’s what we’re lacking.”  The benchmark  10-year note  yield increased nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 2.13 percent at 5:09 p.m.
New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It was
the highest level since Dec. 2. Before today, 10-year yields had
traded this year between 1.79 percent and 2.09 percent. The
price of the 2 percent security due in February 2022 dropped
26/32, or $8.13 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 7/8.  Thirty-year bond  yields climbed 10 basis points to 3.27
percent, advancing above 23.6 percent for the first time since
Oct. 31.  ‘Improved Further’  The labor market has “improved further; the  unemployment
rate  has declined notably in recent months but remains
elevated,” the policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee 
said in a statement at the conclusion of a meeting today in
 Washington . While global financial-market strains have eased,
they continue to “pose significant downside risks to the
economic outlook,” it said.  “The Fed will wait and see how the economy performs in the
summer and fall without additional easing,” said Michael Dueker, a former St. Louis Fed economist, now the chief
economist for Russell Investments North America. The firm
manages $141 billion in fixed-income assets. “The Fed was
toying with the idea of bond yield purchases, but there was no
indication of that in today’s statement.”  Sixty-one percent of respondents in a March 9-12 Bloomberg
News survey said Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  would refrain from
any action to expand the central bank’s $2.89 trillion balance
sheet this year. In January, 50 percent of those surveyed
predicted more bond buying.  Two Rounds  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two
rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to
spur the economy.  The best six-month streak of job growth since 2006 may not
be enough to convince Bernanke and fellow policy makers they can
meet their goal of maximum employment without additional easing
measures. The central-bank chairman last month told U.S.
lawmakers that the job market remains “far from normal” even
as it showed signs of improvement.  Mortgage-bond market prices suggest investors now view the
odds of a third round of quantitative easing at about 35
percent, up from less than 20 percent early last week while down
from 40 percent about a month ago, according to Credit Suisse
Group AG analyst Mahesh Swaminathan.  The Fed left unchanged today its statement that economic
conditions would probably warrant “exceptionally low”  interest
rates  at least through late 2014. It has held its  target rate  to
a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  ‘Little Bit Higher’  “The market’s repricing on a little bit higher
expectations, but the Fed is not giving in completely to a total
pro-growth story,” said Gemma Wright-Casparius, who co-manages
the $41 billion Vanguard Inflation-Protected Securities Fund.
“The market is assessing that the range for interest rates
might be a little bit higher than we’ve been in for the last
four months.”  The FOMC said inflation “has been subdued in recent months
although prices of crude oil and gasoline have increased
lately.” An increase in oil will “push up inflation
temporarily, but the committee anticipates that subsequently
inflation will run at or below the rate that it judges most
consistent with its dual mandate,” it said  The difference in yield between 10-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities and nominal U.S. notes, known as the  break-
even rate , touched 2.35 percent today, the highest since August
on an intraday basis. The figure indicates traders’ expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the security. The average
over the past year is 2.19 percent.  Today’s Auction  The government’s  offering of 10-year  notes today drew a
yield of 2.076 percent, which equaled the forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of nine of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers. The
Treasury auctioned $32 billion of three-year notes yesterday and
will sell $13 billion of 30-year bonds tomorrow.  Ten-year notes yielded 2.02 percent at last month’s
auction, up from the Jan. 11 sale of the maturities, which drew
a record low yield of 1.90 percent.  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 38.6 percent of the notes today,
compared with an average of 43.9 percent for the past 10 sales.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , measuring price
swings based on options, dropped yesterday to 69.9 basis points,
the lowest level since July 2007. The gauge rose to 73.8 basis
points today in  New York . It climbed as high as 117.8 on Aug. 8.
The reading means traders expect a yield range of 73.8 basis
points on an annualized basis in the next month.  Retail sales  increased 1.1 percent in February, matching
the forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
figure compared with a revised 0.6 percent gain in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  