-- Treasuries Fall as U.S. Sells $21 Billion Notes Before End of Fed Meeting
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-03-13T17:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/treasuries-fall-as-u-s-sells-21-billion-notes-before-end-of-fed-meeting.html
Treasuries (YCGT0025)  fell for a fifth day as
a report showing U.S. retail sales rose the most in five months
damped speculation Federal Reserve officials will hint at more
stimulus measures at the conclusion of today’s policy meeting.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes at almost a two-month
high bolstered demand at a government sale of $21 billion of the
securities. The auction’s bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of notes offered,
was 3.24, compared with 3.1 for the past 10 sales.  “The yields have backed up in accordance with the stronger
economic news,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading
at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in  New York , one of 21 primary dealers
firms that trade with the central bank. “The Fed may mention
that the economic news has improved, but yet they are very much
alert to any signs of economic weakness and stand ready to act.
Given what they see, they may give a plug to the economy, but we
won’t see any earth shattering information.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes rose three basis points
to 2.07 percent at 1:41 p.m. New York time, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield touched 2.09 percent,
the highest level since Feb. 23.  The notes were auctioned today at a yield of 2.076 percent,
equaling the forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of nine primary
dealers.  JPMorgan Survey  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 38.6 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 43.9 percent for the past 10 sales. Direct
bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place their bids
directly with the Treasury, purchased 19.4 percent of the notes
at the sale, versus an average of 13.2 percent for the past 10
auctions.  Treasuries investors in a weekly survey by JPMorgan Chase &
Co. bet for the first time since January that prices of the
securities will drop. Net shorts, or wagers that prices will
fall, outweighed net longs by 2 percentage points in the week
ended yesterday. Fifty-seven percent of the clients surveyed
were neutral.  Volatility in the Treasuries market declined yesterday to
the lowest level in more than four years. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures price swings based on
options, dropped to 69.9, the least since July 2007. The gauge
was as high as 117.8 on Aug. 8. The reading means traders expect
a yield range of 69.9 basis points on an annualized basis in the
next month.  Fed Meeting  Price swings have narrowed as the Fed’s debt-purchase
programs made it the biggest owner of U.S. government
securities, according to Treasury and central bank data. The Fed
had holdings of $1.66 trillion as of Dec. 31, the data show,
compared with  China ’s $1.15 trillion.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is scheduled to issue its
statement at about 2:15 p.m. New York time after a policy
meeting.  “We may see a slight upgrade in economic conditions,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia, said of today’s Fed statement. The firm
oversees $12 billion in fixed-income assets.  The best six months of job gains since 2006 have helped
reduce the odds of a third round of asset purchases by the Fed,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. U.S.
payrolls expanded by 227,000 jobs in February, capping the
growth streak, Labor Department data showed last week.  Prior Testimony  Sixty-one percent of respondents in a March 9-12 Bloomberg
News survey said Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will refrain from
any action to expand the central bank’s $2.89 trillion balance
sheet this year. In January, 50 percent of those surveyed
predicted more bond buying.  Bernanke, in Senate testimony before a March 9 jobs report,
gave no sign he’s considering a new program of so-called
quantitative easing. Still, he repeated that the main  interest
rate  is likely to stay near zero through at least late 2014 to
boost a job market that remains “far from normal.”  The Fed chief said on Jan. 25 after the central bank’s
previous meeting that policy makers were considering additional
asset purchases to boost growth. The central bank bought $2.3
trillion of securities in two rounds of quantitative easing from
December 2008 to June 2011.  Treasuries fell earlier after Commerce Department data
showed retail sales increased 1.1 percent in February, matching
the forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
figure compared with a revised 0.6 percent increase the previous
month.  Inflation Bets  The difference in yield between  Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities (USGGBE10)  and nominal bonds, known as the break-even
rate, indicated before the auction that investors expect
consumer prices to rise 2.32 percent annually over the next 10
years. The average over the past year is 2.19 percent.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a message on Twitter
that if investors want to bet on Treasuries rising, they should
own them in TIPS form.  At yesterday’s $32 billion sale of three-year notes,
indirect bidders bought 34.6 percent of the securities, compared
with an average of 36.8 percent during the past 10 sales.  U.S. 10-year yields will increase to 2.54 percent by year-
end, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey, with the most recent projections given the heaviest
weighting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  