-- Three of Four American Oppose Israeli Strike on Iran
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-03-13T22:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/three-of-four-american-oppose-israeli-strike-on-iran.html
An Israeli military strike against
 Iran’s nuclear program  is opposed by three out of four
Americans, according to a poll by the University of  Maryland  and
the Program on International Policy Attitudes.  The findings reflect Americans’ preference for a negotiated
resolution and doubts that an Israeli strike would  thwart any
Iranian ambitions for nuclear weapons, according to the survey
released today.  “One of the reasons Americans are so cool toward the idea
of Israel attacking Iran’s nuclear program is that most believe
that it is not likely to produce much benefit,” said Steven Kull, director of Washington-based PIPA.  Seven in 10 Americans favor the U.S. and other major powers
pursuing negotiations with Iran to resolve concerns over its
disputed nuclear program, according to the poll. That position
is taken by 58 percent of Republicans, 67 percent of
independents and 79 percent of Democrats.  Last week, during a visit to  Washington  by Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , U.S. President  Barack Obama  said
there is a “window of opportunity” for diplomacy and sanctions
to compel Iran to give up any effort to develop nuclear weapons.
Netanyahu told U.S. lawmakers that the talks and economic
pressure won’t work.  Fewer than one in five Americans in the poll said a
military strike would delay Iran’s abilities to develop a
nuclear weapon for more than five years, he noted.  Israeli Views  “Interestingly, this result is barely different from the
view of Israelis who were asked the same question in a February
poll I conducted,” said Shibley Telhami, a professor at the
University of Maryland in  College Park , Maryland and senior
fellow at the  Brookings Institution , a policy institute in
Washington.  Telhami’s poll of Israeli public opinion, done in
cooperation with the Dahaf Institute in Israel and released Feb.
29, found just 22 percent of Israelis thought a military strike
would delay Iran’s program by more than five years.  Only 19 percent of Israelis said their nation should strike
Iran’s nuclear program even if military action does not have the
support of the U.S., according to the poll.  Israeli leaders warn that if they wait too long for
diplomacy to work, they may lose the ability to prevent Iran
from achieving nuclear weapons capability. “We’ve waited for
diplomacy to work. We’ve waited for sanctions to work. None of
us can afford to wait much longer,” Netanyahu told the American
 Israel  Political Action Committee in Washington on March 5.  Economic Sanctions  Obama is under pressure in an election year to forestall
military action while blunting attacks from Republicans who
accuse him of providing inadequate support to Israel.  The U.S. and  Europe  have tightened economic sanctions on
Iran in an effort to force it to end any weapons-related nuclear
work. The U.S. and its allies have warned of a possible nuclear
arms race in the Persian Gulf region that holds more than half
the world’s oil reserves. Iran is the No. 2 oil producer, after
 Saudi Arabia , in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s foreign policy
chief, said last week that world powers are ready to resume
talks with Iran.  If Israel strikes and Iran does not retaliate against U.S.
targets, only 25 percent of Americans favor giving U.S. military
support to Israel, according to today’s  University of
Maryland /PIPA poll. Still, 54 percent of Americans said if
Israel attacks Iran, they expect the U.S. would provide at least
diplomatic support to Israel, while 32 percent predicted the
U.S. would get involved militarily.  UN Route Preferred  The new poll showed three-quarters of Americans want the
U.S. to work through the United Nations Security Council rather
than acting alone to address the Iranian nuclear threat.  A large majority said an Israeli strike would lead to
months or even years of armed conflict. Fewer than half of
Americans and Israelis surveyed in the two polls thought a
strike would weaken the Iranian government.  Fifty-eight percent of Americans believe Iran has decided
to produce nuclear weapons and is actively working to do so.
Only 30 percent agree with the U.S. intelligence services’
assessment that  Iran  is seeking a capability to build weapons,
though it has not taken a decision to produce them, according to
today’s poll.  The poll, which has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.5
percentage points, was conducted between March 3-7 by Knowledge
Networks of  Menlo Park ,  California , a unit of  GfK SE (GFK) , a German
market research company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  