-- Regions Plans $900 Million Stock Sale to Repay Taxpayer Bailout
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-03-13T23:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/regions-plans-900-million-stock-sale-to-repay-taxpayer-bailout.html
Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , the 10th-
largest U.S. lender by deposits, said it plans to sell $900
million of its common stock to help repay a $3.5 billion
taxpayer bailout.  The action was part of the bank’s capital plan submitted
for the Federal Reserve’s tests of how financial firms would
fare in an economic decline, Birmingham, Alabama-based Regions
said yesterday in a statement. The Fed didn’t object to the
plan, the company said.  “We appreciate the U.S. Treasury’s investment in Regions
during the financial crisis,” Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall, 54, said in the statement.  Regions is laying plans to repay the rescue it received in
2008 from the Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program. Most of
the biggest U.S. banks already returned bailout funds. The
lender was among the worst performers in the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  in
2008 and 2009 as defaults contributed to four straight years of
losses totaling $7.7 billion for common shareholders.  Regions climbed 4.2 percent to $6.02 at 7:11 p.m. in
extended trading in  New York  yesterday. The shares had surged 34
percent this year through the close of regular trading, the
third-best performance in the 24-company KBW index after Bank of
America Corp. and Citigroup Inc.  ‘Very Defensive’  “A TARP repayment and any associated capital raise will
benefit us and enable us to get investment-grade ratings,”
Chief Financial Officer  David Turner  said during a March 5
conference for investors. “When we were downgraded, we became
very defensive with our liquidity, which is why we have $4.9
billion in cash at the  Federal Reserve .”  Regions, under former CEO Dowd Ritter, almost doubled its
real-estate construction-loan portfolio and mortgage loans
climbed 59 percent from the end of 2005 through 2007.  Soured
loans (DLQTDLQT)  surged as  home prices  began to drop, with Regions writing
off $3.8 billion in 2008 and 2009.  Ritter told investors in July 2009 his goal was to repay
the bailout by the end of that year and that the bank was
“positioned well” to do so. “I can’t envision any situation
with what we know today where we would have a remote need to
raise additional capital,” he said at the time.  Regions’s stock had  fallen  49 percent in the first half of
that year, from a high of $38.87 on Oct. 13, 2006, to a low of
$2.50 on Feb. 4, 2009.  Sustainable Profitability  Hall, since succeeding Ritter in 2010, has reduced the
amount of funds set aside for soured loans every quarter except
one. Hall said he has sought a return to sustainable
profitability and diversifying holdings to include more consumer
loans, rather than rushing to repay TARP.  Regions agreed in January  to sell  the Morgan Keegan & Co.
brokerage unit to Raymond James Financial Inc., the  St.
Petersburg , Florida-based brokerage and investment bank, under
terms that ultimately will generate proceeds of $1.18 billion
for the bank.  Regions expects first-quarter net interest income to
decline from the prior three-month period as mortgage
prepayments rise, the lender said yesterday in a regulatory
filing. Net interest margin, the difference between what banks
pay for deposits and charge for loans, probably will be
“consistent” with the 3.08 percent reported for the fourth
quarter, it said.  Non-interest revenue is expected to climb as mortgage
income increases, and non-interest expense is likely to rise,
according to the filing.  Regions is scheduled to report full first-quarter results
on April 24.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Morgan Keegan are firms working on the
offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  