-- Trenton Restocks Toilet Paper Amid Council-Mayor Spat
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-03-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/trenton-restocks-toilet-paper-amid-council-mayor-spat.html
Trenton (10672MF) ,  New Jersey , the capital of
the third-wealthiest U.S. state, is restocking toilet tissue
without resolving a City Hall feud spurred by spending on paper
cups that left police to fend for themselves when nature called.  As the City Council took up the issue yesterday, Trenton
officials said they made an emergency purchase to restock public
buildings with paper goods. Staff restrooms at police
headquarters ran out of tissue, according to a union chief.  A spat erupted between the council and Mayor Tony Mack in
November when he included $4,000 for paper cups in a $42,000
purchase order. Councilman  George Muschal  said he and other
members grew concerned that the price for the containers was
inflated, possibly because employees were taking goods home. As
the standoff went unresolved, supplies of paper goods dwindled.  “Everything has been solved and the departments will all
have paper,” according to Marchelle Marshall, the acting
purchasing director in  City Hall . “This emergency supply will
be enough to carry us through until we can re-bid.”  About $16,000 was spent on paper towels, toilet paper and
other restroom supplies yesterday, Marshall said in an
interview. She told the council that the resolution authorizing
a purchase had expired.  Depleted Supply  By March 12, the reserve of toilet tissue had fallen to 11
rolls for 15 city facilities, such as five senior centers, four
for recreation, two museums and police and fire headquarters.  “There’s probably a good 60 people or so who work in this
building who, unless they bring their own private stock, are out
of luck,” George Dzurkoc, president of the police union, said
by telephone from the department’s headquarters. “It’s a basic
necessity the employer should provide.”  Beat officers were taking advantage of restrooms in local
businesses, including a downtown hotel, until headquarters
restrooms were restocked, Dzurkoc said. The building has been
without paper towels for at least three weeks, he said.  “We’ve become a city of diminishing standards,” Michael
A. Walker, 44, a Lamberton Street resident, told council members
at the meeting during a public comment period. “Now Trenton
isn’t just known as a dangerous city -- it’s known as a
dangerous city that’s devoid of toilet paper.”  Trenton may seek new bids in the next few weeks and may
evaluate another round of bids as soon as April 18, Marshall
said.  World Spotlight  The tissue shortage has drawn global interest as news
organizations including the British Broadcasting Corp.’s  BBC 
covered the situation. Even People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals offered the city a free six-month supply of toilet
tissue provided it accept rolls with a message imploring people
to give up consuming animal products.  “We’re always on the lookout for ways we can help cities
in need and raise awareness,” Alicia Woempner, a project
director at the group also known as PETA, said in an interview.  Mack accepted the offer for a six-month supply of tissue
and agreed to talk with representatives of the group, according
to a statement sent by Lauren Ira, a Mack spokeswoman. He also
accepted an offer from Dyson Inc. for 15 blow-driers to replace
paper towels in restrooms.  The City Hall dispute echoed a 2010 threat by Newark Mayor
 Cory Booker  to stop buying “everything from printer paper to
toilet paper” in the state’s biggest city by population. Booker
never took those steps, while Marcal Manufacturing LLC offered
to park a trailer near City Hall to provide free toilet paper.  Mack took office in July 2010 and the city has gone through
at least six business administrators and has been sued twice by
whistle-blowers, including a parks department employee who said
he was fired for questioning Mack’s bidding and hiring
practices.  New Jersey’s per capita income of $51,167 in 2010 ranked it
third among states after  Connecticut , at $54,877, and
 Massachusetts , at $51,302, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  