-- Trenton, N.J., Begins Running Out of Toilet Paper in Spat
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-03-13T19:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/trenton-new-jersey-may-restock-toilet-paper-if-city-council-passes-order.html
Police headquarters in  Trenton (10672MF) ,  New
Jersey , the capital of the third-wealthiest U.S. state, has
exhausted toilet-paper supplies as a spat that began over
spending on paper cups entered a fifth month.  City Council members are set to vote today on a $42,000
order for paper goods, with public buildings down to just 11
rolls. The head of the city’s police union said the restrooms
used by headquarters workers have no tissue or paper towels.
Councilman  George Muschal  said he expects approval of the order,
provided Mayor Tony Mack answers some questions.  Trenton, midway between  New York  and Philadelphia, has the
money to buy the items and plans to do so as soon as the council
approves the purchase, said Lauren Ira, a spokeswoman for Mack.
She said supplies are “certainly dwindling and very lean.” The
dispute between the mayor and council may affect at least 15
city buildings, including five senior centers, four for
recreation, two museums and police, fire and water headquarters.  “This is crazy,” Muschal, a retired Trenton policeman who
represents the South Ward, said by telephone. “It’s a blame
game right now. Blame the council; blame the administration. But
it all started with $4,000 for some paper cups.”  Feud Over Cups  The feud began in November when Mack included $4,000 for
the cups in the purchase order. Muschal said he and others grew
concerned that the price for the containers was inflated,
possibly because employees may have been taking goods home.  “There’s probably a good 60 people or so who work in this
building who, unless they bring their own private stock, are out
of luck,” said George Dzurkoc, president of the police union,
said by telephone from headquarters. “It’s a basic necessity
the employer should provide.”  Beat officers are instead taking advantage of restrooms in
local businesses, including a downtown hotel. The police station
has been without paper towels for at least three weeks, while
tissue ran out yesterday, Dzurkoc said.  The spat has drawn global interest as news organizations
including the British Broadcasting Corp.’s  BBC  covered the
looming end of Trenton’s tissue supply. Even People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals offered the city a free six-month
supply of toilet tissue provided it accept rolls with a message
imploring people to give up consuming animal products.  Free Rolls  “Whether or not the city reaches an agreement on this, we
are ready with this offer,” Alicia Woempner, a project director
at the group also known as PETA, said in an interview.  “We’re always on the lookout for ways we can help cities
in need and raise awareness,” she said, citing it as a method
of highlighting unsanitary conditions on some farms and in
slaughterhouses.  “Provided the resolution is approved tonight, then the
supply will be delivered tomorrow,” Ira said by e-mail. “If
the resolution is not approved, and all remains the same, then
supplies may be depleted by this weekend.”  If need be, Muschal said he’s willing to buy a temporary
stock out of his own pocket to tide over workers.  The dispute echoed a 2010 threat by Newark Mayor  Cory Booker  to stop buying “everything from printer paper to toilet
paper” in the state’s biggest city by population. Booker never
took those steps, while Marcal Manufacturing LLC offered to park
a trailer near  City Hall  to give free toilet paper to employees.  Mack took office in July 2010 and the city has gone through
at least six business administrators and has been sued twice by
whistle-blowers, including a parks department employee who said
he was fired for questioning Mack’s bidding and hiring
practices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  