-- Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose in February, Lifted by Autos
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-13T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-rose-in-february-lifted-by-autos.html
Retail sales in the U.S. probably
rose in February by the most in five months, spurred by the
strongest demand for automobiles since 2008, economists said
before a report today.  The 1.1 percent rise would follow a 0.4 percent gain in
January, according to the  median  forecast of 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Excluding autos, purchases may have
climbed 0.7 percent.  Sales at chains like  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  last month
beat analysts’ estimates, a sign an improving job market is
bolstering  consumer spending , the biggest part of the economy. A
pickup in payrolls accompanied by limited wage gains may not be
enough to satisfy Federal Reserve officials, who today will
probably reaffirm a commitment to keep  interest rates  low.  “The labor market is growing and credit is getting better,
and these are two big sources for consumer spending,” said
 Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities in
 New York . “I don’t think the Fed will declare victory yet
because the economy is still not close to where they want it to
be.”  The Commerce Department will release the sales report at
8:30 a.m. in  Washington . Economists’ estimates ranged from gains
of 0.5 percent to 2.1 percent.  At 10 a.m., another report from the Commerce Department may
show business inventories climbed 0.5 percent in January,
following a 0.4 percent gain the prior month, as sales improved,
according to the survey median.  Hiring Pickup  Employers boosted payrolls more than forecast in February,
capping the best six-month streak of job growth since 2006. The
227,000 increase followed a revised 284,000 gain in January that
was bigger than first estimated, the Labor Department reported
on March 9. The jobless rate held at a three-year low of 8.3
percent.  Cars last month sold at the fastest pace in four years, led
by Chrysler Group LLC and a surprise gain from  General Motors
Co. (GM)  Light-vehicle sales accelerated to a  15 (SAARTOTL)  million annual rate,
the strongest since February 2008, according to Ward’s
Automotive Group.  “There are a number of factors that are helping release
this pent-up demand,”  Don Johnson , vice president of GM’s U.S.
sales, said on a March 1 conference call with analysts. “They
include stronger employment, good credit availability, and both
of those are leading to improving consumer sentiment.”  The retail sales data, which aren’t adjusted for prices,
will also reflect increasing gasoline costs.  Regular (3AGSREG)  fuel in
February averaged $3.56 a gallon, or 18 cents more than January,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest auto organization. It’s
climbed further this month, reaching $3.80 on March 11, the
highest since May.  Unseasonably Warm  Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, and Target, the
country’s second-largest discount retailer, were among merchants
whose February sales gains at stores open at least a year
exceeded analysts’ average estimates. Unseasonably warm weather
may have helped to spur demand for spring merchandise.  The average temperature was 38.2 degrees Fahrenheit (3.4
Celsius) last month, 3.6 degrees warmer than the 20th century
average and the 17th warmest February in 118 years.  Investors have driven up retailers’ shares as the job
market heals. The  Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite  Retailing
Index (S15RETL) , which includes Gap and Macy’s Inc., has climbed 15
percent this year through yesterday, compared with a 9 percent
advance for the broader  S&P 500. (SPX)   Fed policy makers may reiterate a plan to keep interest
rates low at least through late 2014 after meeting later today.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in his semiannual monetary policy
report to Congress, said maintaining monetary stimulus is
warranted even with employment gains and a lower  jobless rate .  While there are “some positive developments in the labor
market,” Bernanke told lawmakers on March 1, “the pace of
expansion has been uneven.” The rise in gasoline prices “is
likely to push up inflation temporarily while reducing
consumers’ purchasing power,” he said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  