-- U.S. Retail Sales Rose in Feb. by Most in 5 Mos.
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-13T20:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/retail-sales-in-u-s-climb-the-most-in-five-months-as-recovery-takes-hold.html
Americans heartened by an improving
labor market boosted spending at stores and malls by the most in
five months, adding to signs that the world’s largest economy is
gaining strength.  The 1.1 percent  advance  followed a 0.6 percent increase in
January that was larger than previously estimated, according to
Commerce Department data issued today in  Washington . Sales rose
in 11 of 13 categories, including auto dealers and clothing
stores, showing gains in demand were broad based.  Stocks and bond yields rose as the report indicated that
the best six-month streak of employment growth since 2006 is
bolstering spending even as gasoline costs rise. Job gains have
not been large enough to satisfy Federal Reserve officials, who
today reaffirmed a commitment to keep interest rates low.  Consumers are “unfazed by higher  gas prices ,” said
 Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit Suisse in New York, who
correctly forecast the increase in spending. “This is a
pleasant surprise on the overall picture for the economy. For
the Fed, it’s steady as she goes. They will be encouraged, but
there is still a long way to go.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SXP)  climbed 1.8 percent to
1,395.96 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The yield on the 10-
year Treasury note increased to 2.13 percent from 2.03 percent
late yesterday.  The gain in sales last month matched the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Estimates ranged from
gains of 0.5 percent to 2.1 percent. The Commerce Department
revised the January increase from a previously reported 0.4
percent advance.  Gap, Target  Sales at chains like  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  last month
beat analysts’ estimates. Williams-Sonoma Inc., the biggest U.S.
gourmet-cookware chain, said demand improved at the start of the
year following the  holiday shopping season .  “Post holiday, we saw a progressively stronger retail
environment,” Laura Alber, chief executive officer of the San
Francisco-based company, said on a March 8 conference call. The
company reported record earnings for 2011.  Sales increased 1.6 percent at automobile dealers,
reversing the prior month’s drop, today’s report showed. The
results fell short of industry figures that showed an even
bigger gain.  Cars last month sold at the fastest pace in four years, led
by Chrysler Group LLC and a surprise gain from  General Motors
Co. (GM)  Light-vehicle sales accelerated 6.4 percent from January to
a  15 (SAARTOTL)  million annual rate, the strongest since February 2008,
according to Ward’s Automotive Group.  ‘Pent-Up Demand’  “There are a number of factors that are helping release
this pent-up demand,”  Don Johnson , vice president of GM’s U.S.
sales, said on a March 1 conference call with analysts. “They
include stronger employment, good credit availability, and both
of those are leading to improving consumer sentiment.”  Automobile stockpiles jumped by the most in more than a
year in January, leading a 0.7 percent increase in business
inventories, the Commerce Department said in a separate report
today.  Retail sales excluding autos increased 0.9 percent in
February, exceeding the median forecast of economists surveyed
that called for a 0.7 percent gain.  The sales data, which aren’t adjusted for inflation,
reflected a 3.3 percent jump in receipts at service stations,
the biggest gain in almost a year, as gasoline costs climbed.
 Regular (3AGSREG)  fuel in February averaged $3.56 a gallon, or 18 cents
more than January, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest auto
organization. It advanced further this month, reaching $3.81 on
March 12, the highest since May.  Clothing Stores  Purchases at clothing stores rose 1.8 percent, the most
since November 2010. Furniture and general merchandise stores
were the only categories to show a decrease in demand.  Employment and income gains are giving consumers the
confidence to spend more. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
rose to an almost four-year high in the week ended March 4.  Employers boosted payrolls more than forecast in February.
The 227,000 increase followed a revised 284,000 gain in January
that was bigger than first estimated, the Labor Department
reported on March 9. The jobless rate held at a three-year low
of 8.3 percent.  Job openings were little changed in January, capping the
best back-to-back months since mid 2008, a signal businesses
remain confident about the economic expansion, other figures
from the Labor Department showed today. The number of positions
waiting to be filled totaled 3.46 million, down from a revised
3.54 million in December that was higher than previously
estimated.  Pay Increases  Worker pay jumped in the last six months of 2011 by the
most in almost five years, helping households squirrel away some
extra cash. Americans saved 4.5 percent of their after-tax
income in the fourth quarter, up from a prior estimate of 3.7
percent, according to Commerce Department data.  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in
 New York  and a former Fed researcher who specialized in  consumer
spending , projects Americans will boost purchases at a 3 percent
annual rate in the second half of the year after a 2.5 percent
gain in the first six months.  Investors have driven up retailers’ shares as the job
market heals. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing
Index, which includes Gap and Macy’s Inc., has climbed 15
percent this year through yesterday.  GDP Calculation  Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the figures used to calculate  gross domestic product , retail
sales rose 0.5 percent in February after a 1 percent increase in
the previous month.  Fed policy makers reiterated a plan to keep  interest rates 
low at least through late 2014 after meeting today. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in his semiannual monetary policy report to
Congress, said maintaining monetary stimulus is warranted even
with employment gains and a lower  jobless rate .  While there are “some positive developments in the labor
market,” Bernanke told lawmakers on March 1, “the pace of
expansion has been uneven.” The rise in gasoline prices “is
likely to push up inflation temporarily while reducing
consumers’ purchasing power,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  