-- Rising Costs, Risks Threaten Futures Brokers, DeWaal Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-03-13T22:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/rising-costs-and-risks-threaten-futures-brokers-dewaal-says.html
Changes to how clearinghouses are
used to back derivatives trades are putting brokerages on “a
dangerous path” that threatens the futures business model, said
Gary DeWaal, general counsel of Newedge USA LLC.  The risk to brokerages, known as futures commission
merchants, or FCMs, began with the Dodd-Frank Act requirement to
guarantee swap trades with clearinghouses, DeWaal said in an
interview today at the Futures Industry Association annual
conference in  Boca Raton ,  Florida .  The rule, passed in January by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, removed broker clients from sharing losses
if a fellow customer bankrupted the firm. Revelations of $1.6
billion in unaccounted customer funds at  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MFGLQ) , money that’s supposed to be protected in a broker default,
brought calls for the swaps rule to apply to futures.  “We are making concessions that will undercut the system
and that’s a very dangerous path,” said DeWaal, who is also a
special adviser to the FIA, the industry and lobbying group that
represents banks in the futures and swaps markets. The cost and
risk of making up for a shortfall in a clearinghouse will fall
to the brokers under the new swaps plan while making firms rely
on competitors’ standards and operations that they don’t
control, he said. “To a certain extent, as an FCM, we’re
insuring moral hazard,” he said.  Adapting to Changes  Newedge is the second-largest futures broker by customer
funds, behind  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , according to the CFTC.  Banks,  hedge funds  and asset managers active in the $708
trillion over-the-counter  derivatives market  are adapting to
changes mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act passed by Congress in
2010, including a requirement to process most swaps with a
clearinghouse to cut counterparty risk.  The CFTC rule passed in January didn’t require collateral
to be held by third parties and didn’t address misuse or loss of
funds held by brokers. BlueMountain Capital Management LLC,
Paulson & Co. Inc.,  Fidelity Investments  and Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group have pushed for greater safeguards on the
collateral they must provide to back positions, according to
letters filed with the CFTC. The CFTC rule takes effect Nov. 8.  “The futures industry is going through a soul searching,
trying to come up with the right model that restores unwavering
confidence,” said  Richard Repetto , an analyst with Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in New York. A  CME Group Inc. (CME)  plan to
allow swaps collateral to be held by a custody bank would also
be a blow to the business model the industry has used for
decades, and would cut profitability, Repetto said.  Customer Money  “These FCMs feel very threatened that it would go to the
model that CME is offering for swaps,” he said.  That’s because it would reduce the amount of interest a
broker can earn on the customer money it holds. Record low
 interest rates  have already curbed that earning power in recent
years, said Allan Zavarro, the former global head of futures
trading for ABN Amro Bank NV. When interest rates rise “there
will be a great opportunity to earn money again,” he said.
That’s why brokers “would do anything they can to not have
third-party collateral agreements.”  The MF Global default, the new CFTC swaps clearing rule and
the option for third-party collateral management are putting the
focus on how best to adapt the derivatives model, said David Olsen, global head of OTC clearing for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   ‘Change the Landscape’  “The ability for customers to have their assets protected,
especially with the enormous amount of collateral to be posted,
is something all the panelists are focused on,” he said during
a discussion of changes in the swaps market at the FIA
conference.  Customers should have the chance to choose what level of
protection their collateral is given, said Olsen, who was on the
panel with representatives of CME Group, LCH.Clearnet Ltd.,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Pacific Investment Management Co.  “That’s going to be a big development and really change
the landscape,” he said.  The banks are up against some of the largest investors in
the  derivatives market . Moore Capital Management LP,
BlueMountain, Paulson, Tudor Investment Corp., and Och-Ziff have
all said the swaps customer protection model should be applied
to  futures markets , according to  letters  filed with the CFTC.
The possibility of such a change was explored in the first panel
during a roundtable discussion at the CFTC on Feb. 29.  Unique Process  Och-Ziff “believes that, just like cleared swaps
customers, futures customers should also have the benefit of
full physical segregation,” Jeffrey Blockinger, the fund’s
chief legal officer, wrote in a December letter to the CFTC.  The clearing process for futures “has been in place for
many decades and has resulted in a unique set of processes,
systems and technology,” he wrote. “Although this may caution
against making immediate changes, it should not prevent the
commission from seeking changes with the ultimate goal of
providing all customers” the protection “offered by physical
segregation.”  The existing system of collateral management should be
strengthened rather than creating new “hybrid” models, DeWaal
said. A practice of third-party custodians holding swaps
collateral is the first “carve out” that brings a part of the
private OTC market to the clearinghouse system being created, he
said.  “The problem is, every time you do that, you carve out and
give someone more protection, someone else is going to have to
bear that risk,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  