-- Romania Opens Transelectrica Share Sale at Price Discount
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-03-14T15:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/romania-opens-transelectrica-share-sale-at-13-price-discount.html
Romania  began selling a minority
stake in power utility  Transelectrica SA (TEL) , offering a 13 percent
discount to lure investors in eastern European assets after last
year’s failed stake sale in  OMV Petrom SA. (SNP)   The Balkan nation, which plans to sell minority stakes in
six energy companies this year, opened the subscription period
today for 15 percent of the grid operator at a minimum price of
14.9 lei ($4.50) per share, 13 percent below the closing market
price on March 12, and a maximum price of 19.2 lei, it said
yesterday. Investors have until March 27 to submit bids.  Romania joins other former communist countries, including
 Poland  and  Russia , in selling state holdings to cut debts,
upgrade outmoded plants and boost efficiency. Romania, which
failed to complete the sale of a stake in Petrom, the country’s
largest oil company, is trying to reassure investors with lower
prices amid a credit crisis that continues to roil markets.  “The current higher volatility on the equity markets,
could result in higher discounts claimed by investors in order
to take exposure on different assets,” said Mihai Caruntu, an
analyst at  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ’s Banca Comerciala Romana SA.
“Additional discounts are claimed for the low visibility of the
Romanian equity market and for the reduced transparency in the
country’s energy sector.”  Transelectrica’s shares, which traded at 17.06 lei before
the sale,  declined  5 percent to close at 16.20 lei in Bucharest
trading today. At that price, the company is valued at about
1.19 billion lei. Investors subscribed today about 2.34 percent
of the 11 million shares offered by the government, according to
the Bucharest bourse’s data.  Sale Managers  BCR, Romania’s largest bank by assets, is managing the sale
together with brokerages Swiss Capital SA and Intercapital
Invest SA. The government and sale managers have been holding
meetings with investors across  Europe  and will seek to sell the
stake on the Bucharest Stock Exchange.  “Given the macroeconomic uncertainties, my recommendation
to potential investors is to consider subscription at a price
below 15.97 lei,” Andrei Radulescu, an analyst at the brokerage
 SSIF Broker SA (BRK) , wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Romania pledged to the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union, which it joined in 2007, to reduce its holdings
in state enterprises companies this year to finance
infrastructure investments and cut the  budget deficit  to 1.9
percent of the gross domestic product from 4.35 percent of GDP
last year.  “The progress made by Romania in the recent two years
under the IMF program is largely acknowledged and maintaining
the pace of reforms can create good entry points,” said Ovidiu Fer, an analyst at Wood & Co Financial Services in Prague.  Shoring Up Confidence  The government must reassure investors who are concerned
about state companies’ management, a historical lack of
liquidity and overregulation, especially in the  energy industry ,
said Fer.  It must also compete for investors with less cash to spend
as Poland, the EU’s largest eastern nation, puts stakes in
similar companies on the block.  Poland on Feb. 4 sold a stake in  PGE SA (PGE) , its largest power
utility, for 2.52 billion zloty ($796 million), raising the most
from asset sales in eight months, to help finance the deficit.
The transaction was the biggest state sale since the 5.4
billion-zloty initial public offering of coal producer
 Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA (JSW)  in June.  Spreading the Cash  “We hope the Polish pension funds still have some money
left for Romania, too, after they subscribed to the PGE offer,”
Dan Weiler, BCR’s head of corporate finance and investment
banking in charge with the share sale, told reporters in
Bucharest today. “We are counting a lot on the interest of
investors from London and  Frankfurt  who are more familiar with
Romania’s perspectives.”  Romania also plans to sell 15 percent stakes in gas company
Romgaz SA and gas-grid operator  Transgaz SA (TGN)  and 10 percent
stakes in Hidroelectrica SA and Nuclearelectrica this year. It
will also try to revive the sale of a 9.8 percent stake in
Petrom after it failed to get enough bids in July amid market
turmoil triggered by Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  “These are difficult times for privatizing but you must
keep a door open for investments, we can’t live without them,”
said Deputy Economy Minister Karoly Borbely in an interview in
Bucharest. “The energy sector is in the pole position for
attracting investments and we can’t afford to lose this moment,
because it will be hard to catch up.”  Russian Plans  Russia’s Energy Ministry said on Feb. 11 it may postpone
the planned sale of state stakes in energy companies, such as
 OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , OAO  RusHydro (HYDR) , OAO  Transneft (TRNF)  and OAO  Zarubezhneft (ZRNFT) ,
due to low market prices.  “Romania’s offerings must be very competitive
internationally in terms of structure, management and how they
are marketed,” to attract investors’ interest, said Greg Konieczny, the manager of  Fondul Proprietatea SA (FP) , a minority
shareholder in Transelectrica.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  