-- Romney Bests Santorum in Poll Based on Job Creating Skill
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/romney-leads-in-poll-showing-most-americans-disapproving-of-private-equity.html
Boosted by pocketbook and
electability issues,  Mitt Romney  leads  Rick Santorum  nationally
among Republicans and independents who lean that way in a
campaign driven by the  U.S. economy .  A Bloomberg National Poll shows Romney with the support of
37 percent, compared with 27 percent for Santorum. Former U.S.
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s backing is 13 percent while U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  draws 11 percent.  “He’s a businessman and has a better idea of how to run
something,” said Republican poll participant Beverly Link, 68,
a clerical worker from Maumee,  Ohio . “So many things about our
country should be run more like a business, instead of just
throwing money at everything.”  There are warning signs in the poll for Romney, should the
former Massachusetts governor become his party’s presidential
nominee. The extended primary season has driven his
unfavorability rating up 10 points, to 48 percent, since
September.  His past  private equity  work cuts both ways: it’s a
credential that appeals to Republicans, while a slim majority
-- 52 percent -- of all Americans view the business practice as
harmful to the economy and 68 percent object to the favored  tax
rate  applied to profits generated by the industry.  Romney, 65, has estimated his wealth at as much as $250
million on financial disclosure statements. He earned $21.6
million in 2010, mostly from investments, according to tax
returns he released in January that showed he paid an effective
tax rate of 13.9 percent. That compares with the 35 percent top
marginal tax rate.  Private Equity  Among Republicans, Romney’s work as a private-equity
investor at Bain Capital LLC is viewed favorably, with almost
two-thirds saying it makes him more prepared than the party’s
other candidates to create jobs.  Romney is the favorite among a subset of Republicans who
list unemployment and jobs as their top priority, with 52
percent saying he’s the candidate best prepared to get the
economy going at a time when national unemployment stands at 8.3
percent.  Link said she isn’t bothered by Romney’s work at Bain,
saying such firms “serve a purpose” in making the economy more
efficient. “Hopefully, they help more companies than they close
down,” she said.  Santorum’s Edge  Romney faces a greater challenge with Republicans who are
motivated by moral issues and are opposed to abortion rights and
gay marriage.  Santorum’s one area of strength against Romney is among
evangelical Christians, where he leads 42 percent to 28 percent.
Among supporters of the limited government  Tea Party  movement,
Romney and Santorum, a former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania ,
draw equal support at 31 percent.  Republicans say Santorum, 53, would be more effective if he
focused on the economy. Eight in 10 say he should speak more
about jobs, while just 11 percent say he should focus mostly on
values, morals and faith.  “On a state-by-state basis, Santorum’s focus on faith is
delivering victories and some strong second-place finishes,”
said J. Ann Selzer, president of  Selzer & Co.  in  West Des
Moines ,  Iowa , which conducted the poll for Bloomberg. “But the
heartbeat of the party nationally is the economy.”  The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points on the full sample and was taken March 8-11,
after the so-called Super Tuesday when primary contests began on
March 6 in 11 states. Romney won seven, Santorum took three,
Gingrich one.  Mormon Church Ratings  The Mormon Church, to which Romney belongs, is viewed
unfavorably by 35 percent of Americans in the poll, while 29
percent have a favorable view and 36 percent say they’re unsure.
Republicans have a better view of the church, with 32 percent
viewing it favorably and 36 percent unfavorably.  James Samuel, 50, a federal government program manager who
lives in Gray,  Georgia , said Romney’s faith isn’t a top concern
for him, although it’s something he considers to be a negative.  “It’s in the back of my mind all the time,” said Samuel,
a Baptist. “I’m more in line with Santorum’s beliefs as a
Catholic.”  Republicans are nearly divided on whether others in the
race should drop out and allow a two-person contest between
Romney and Santorum to emerge.  ‘No Mandate’ to Quit  “There is no mandate in this poll for candidates to drop
out,” Selzer said. “Maybe potential voters are still uncertain
of the right person for the job, or maybe they are enjoying the
show.”  Beyond his business background, Romney holds another
advantage that many Republicans see as a top priority: 52
percent of the poll respondents said he has the best chance of
beating President  Barack Obama .  That majority compares to 18
percent for Santorum and 14 percent for Gingrich.  Asked who best understands their problems and struggles, 28
percent of Republicans pick Romney and 29 percent Santorum.  One area where Gingrich scores well: as someone who would
be an interesting person to have dinner with. On that question,
26 percent of Republicans pick Gingrich, followed by 23 percent
for Romney, 20 percent for Paul and 19 percent for Santorum.  Nearly, two-thirds of Republicans said the independent
political action committees known as super-PACs have done more
harm than good to the primary process.  Unhelpful Outside Groups  The negative advertising financed by those groups and 20
televised debates that often featured the Republican candidates
criticizing each other have taken their toll on the candidates,
all of whom have higher unfavorability ratings.  The 10-point increase in Romney’s unfavorability rating is
the biggest increase among the candidates since a September
Bloomberg News poll. Santorum’s unfavorability rating is up 9
percentage points, at 44 percent. Gingrich’s rose just four
points, although it’s the highest at 59 percent. Paul’s
unfavorability is 44 percent, up 3 points from September.  Almost half of Republicans said their party’s nomination
process so far has been too negative in tone, while a third said
it has had the right balance and 16 percent view it as a mostly
positive race so far.  “There is so much mudslinging and it’s so raw,” said
Republican poll participant Joyce Panetta, 62, who works as a
school instructional data analyst and lives in Rockville,
 Maryland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  