-- Rupiah Gains as Central Bank Signals Measures to Cap Inflation
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-03-13T09:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/rupiah-gains-as-central-bank-signals-measures-to-cap-inflation.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah rose after the
central bank signaled it may increase reserve ratios for lenders
to reduce funds in the banking system and mitigate the impact of
a planned cut in fuel subsidies on inflation.  Bank Indonesia  is considering the use of its reserve-
requirement rule, Governor Darmin Nasution said on March 9,
adding that it isn’t the preferred policy tool. The government
has proposed revising its inflation target in the 2012 state
budget to 7 percent from 5.3 percent as ministers meet this
month to discuss raising energy prices.  “It would be supportive for the rupiah if the central bank
undertakes some form of policy tightening because market
concerns have been regarding inflation and the appropriateness
of monetary policy,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-based
regional economist at  Barclays Capital .  The rupiah advanced 0.1 percent to 9,169 per dollar as of
4:32 p.m. in Jakarta after rising as much as 0.4 percent earlier,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. It
dropped 0.6 percent yesterday.  One-month implied volatility in the rupiah, which measures
exchange-rate swings used to price options, held at 9.5 percent
for a third day after falling from 13.2 percent at the end of
last year. Bank Indonesia will monitor and intervene in the
currency and secondary bond markets to stabilize the rupiah,
according to a  note  posted on its website last week.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
gained one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.88
percent, the highest since Jan. 18, according to closing prices
from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  “Statements from the central bank calmed the market
earlier today but there is still lingering concern whether their
plans will be effective in easing inflation,” said David Sumual,
a Jakarta-based economist at PT Bank Central Asia, the nation’s
biggest lender by market value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in  Singapore  at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 