-- Rusal Chairman Quits Citing ‘Crisis’ at Aluminum Producer
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-03-13T20:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/rusal-chairman-quits-citing-crisis-at-aluminum-producer.html
United Co. Rusal (486) , the Russian
aluminum producer whose chairman quit two days ago, may appoint
a replacement as soon as this week as it fends off accusations
that the debt-laden company is in crisis.  Rusal may elect an independent chairman on March 16 when
it’s due to hold a board meeting, Chief Executive Officer  Oleg Deripaska  said yesterday on a conference call. “The chair won’t
get cold,” he said.  Victor Vekselberg quit as board chairman late on March 12,
citing disagreements with Deripaska over the CEO’s refusal to
sell out of  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) , in which Rusal has a 25
percent stake. Vekselberg, Rusal’s third-largest shareholder,
has sided with fellow billionaire holder  Mikhail Prokhorov  to
push for a sale of the Norilsk stock, saying it would help the
aluminum producer reduce debt and aid expansion.  “Due to the actions of its management, Rusal is presently
facing a deep crisis,” Vekselberg said in a statement. “Rusal
deteriorated from an international aluminum leader into a
company overburdened with debt.” Rusal completed an $11.4
billion debt refinancing in October.  Vekselberg’s exit shows a deepening conflict among
shareholders over the investment in Norilsk, Russia’s biggest
miner. Deripaska, who controls 47.4 percent of Rusal, has
snubbed three offers since October 2010 to divest the Norilsk
shares, saying it’s a long-term “strategic” holding.  Shareholders ‘Uncomfortable’  “Relations between Oleg Deripaska and Vekselberg have
worsened materially over the last year,” brokerage Troika
Dialog said yesterday.  Alfa Bank  said minority holders have
grown “uncomfortable” and “could be incentivized to exit
their stakes,” adding that such an option wouldn’t be viable in
the “current market environment.”  Deripaska would consider buying Vekselberg’s stake in Rusal
should he decide to sell, the CEO said on the call. Vekselberg’s
Sual Partners Ltd. holds a 15.8 percent interest, which would be
valued at about $1.9 billion at the current market price,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “We have the right of
first refusal,” Deripaska said.  Sual Partners has no current plans to sell, spokesman
Andrey Shtorkh said by telephone from Moscow.  The departure of Vekselberg, chairman since Rusal took over
his SUAL Group in 2007, “preempted the anticipated
consideration of this matter by the board,” Rusal said in a
statement. The billionaire, ranked Russia’s 10th-richest person
by Forbes magazine last year, hasn’t attended a  board meeting  in
person since February 2011 and “failed to perform his functions
as a public-company board chairman,” the aluminum company said.  Share Resumption  Rusal has slumped 43 percent in  Hong Kong  trading since its
initial public offering in the city in January 2010, and pays no
dividend as it seeks to curb borrowings. The shares were
suspended in Hong Kong and Paris yesterday, and Rusal expects to
resume trading today.  “The resignation of Mr. Vekselberg will not have any
material impact on the business of the company, will not have
any significant influence on the company’s operational and
financial results,” the Moscow-based aluminum producer said in
a separate statement. Rusal’s  depositary receipts  fell 3.5
percent to 230.88 rubles at the close in the city yesterday.  Vekselberg, together with partners including Len Blavatnik,
started buying shares of aluminum companies in the 1990s. The
partners’ aluminum empire grew into SUAL Group, which by 2006
was  Russia ’s largest producer of the metal after Deripaska’s
Rusal. Their combination created the world’s top aluminum maker.  ‘One-Man Show’  Vekselberg has “basically received no returns” since the
2007 takeover, said Valentina Bogomolova, an analyst at UralSib
Capital in Moscow. “Vekselberg’s frustration is understandable
because he can neither cash out nor affect decision-making as
Rusal is a one-man show.”  Deripaska, 44, has hung on to Rusal’s Norilsk stake, even
as Vekselberg urged the sale of the shares for $18 billion last
year, two people with knowledge of the matter said Sept. 20.  Concern that Rusal’s  debt  was too high led Hong Kong
regulators to delay its IPO at least twice, and the company was
barred from marketing the shares to individual investors. Rusal
cut its  borrowings  by selling stock to investors including Hong
Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing .  In December, the company promised to pay a premium to
lenders should its ratio of net debt to earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization exceed 4. It was
3.9 at the end of September, according to Morgan Stanley. Rusal
may cut output by 6 percent in the next 18 months amid declining
aluminum prices, Deripaska said in January.  Rusal produced 4.1 million metric tons of aluminum in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Aluminum for
three-month delivery on the London Metal Exchange has averaged
$2,223.37 a ton this year, compared with $2,421.39 last year.  Deripaska controls his stake in Rusal through EN+ Group
Ltd. and Prokhorov has 17 percent through Onexim Holdings Ltd.  Andrey Belyak, a spokesman for Onexim Group, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  