-- Russian Opposition Activists Urge U.S. to Repeal Jackson-Vanik
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-03-13T18:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/russian-opposition-activists-urge-u-s-to-repeal-jackson-vanik.html
Russian opposition and human rights
activists have urged U.S. lawmakers to repeal a Cold War-era law
aimed at punishing the Communist  Soviet Union , arguing that
keeping it benefits President-elect  Vladimir Putin .  In a letter today addressed to Congressional leaders,
campaigners including Lyudmilla Alexeyeva, head of the Moscow
Helsinki Group, said the failure to abolish the measure would be
a “gift” for conservative forces that want to intensify
pressure on the opposition and confrontation with the U.S.,
according to an e-mail from the U.S. Senate Committee on
Finance.  Yesterday, opposition leaders including anti-corruption
blogger Alexei Navalny, former deputy prime minister Boris Nemtsov and  Vladimir Ryzhkov  in an open letter also urged the
U.S. to repeal the amendment.  The U.S. risks losing out on increased exports to Russia
once the country formally joins the  World Trade Organization  in
May or June, because of the 1974 law, which barred favorable
trade relations with the Soviet Union because it wouldn’t let
Jewish citizens emigrate.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  last month urged
Congress to overturn the law, claiming American farmers and
producers are being hurt by the statute. Annual waivers have
been allowed since 1993, two years after the Communist
government collapsed.  Lawmakers including Representatives Chris Smith, a New
Jersey Republican, and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida Democrat,
have questioned repealing the law and easing trade with Russia,
citing its record on human rights and economic policies.  Opposing Views  Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in
the Senate, said Feb. 28 that  Russia ’s attitude toward Syria
would “definitely” slow debate on overturning Jackson-Vanik.  “At the end of the day, those who defend the argument that
Jackson-Vanik’s provisions should still apply to Russia in order
to punish Putin’s anti-democratic regime only darken Russia’s
political future, hamper its economic development and frustrate
its democratic aspirations,” the opposition activists said in
yesterday’s  open letter .  Tens of thousands of Russians have protested in major
cities since December at alleged fraud that handed the ruling
party a reduced majority and gave Putin a new six-year term in
the Kremlin after 12 years in power, including the last four
years as premier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  