-- RWE, BG Group Officials Disagree on Setting Natural-Gas Prices
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   B e n   F a r e y
-- 2012-03-13T15:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/rwe-bg-group-officials-disagree-on-setting-natural-gas-prices.html
Officials from  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s
second-biggest utility, and BG Group Plc clashed on a conference
panel in  London  over the best way to price natural gas.  The German power generator, which is in a legal dispute
with OAO Gazprom over the Russian company’s policy of linking
its charges to oil costs, said the global nature of gas trading
meant the fuel should be treated as an independent commodity. BG
Group said gas buyers and sellers want to maintain the oil link.  “As soon as you assume gas will evolve as just another
global market on its own, there is no real reason to have gas
indexed to oil,” Peter Kreuzberg, RWE Supply and Trading GmbH’s
chief commercial officer, said on a panel at the Edison Electric
Institute International Utility conference. Traders and
utilities seek “clarity about the terms of conditions.”  About two-thirds of gas in  Europe  is sold at prices linked
to the cost of crude-oil products. Trading hubs, where prices
are lower than the oil-linked gas sold by Russia and Norway, are
growing in Europe. Gas is priced according to supply and demand
in the U.S., where rates plunged as local output rose. Asian
nations such as  Japan  pay the highest gas prices, pegged to oil.  “Oil indexation will sustain both in Europe, but in
particular in Asia,” Andrew Walker, BG Group’s head of
liquified natural gas strategy, said at the conference. “If
both the buyers and the sellers are for it, that kind of tells
you it probably will sustain.” There are “very few” pricing
alternatives in  Asia , Walker said. Costs in the gas business
tend also to track the oil industry, he said.  The company expects to make as much as $2.8 billion this
year from producing and selling LNG, BG said Feb. 9, and it’s
investing $15 billion in Australian output. Demand is outpacing
supply and the market will remain tight through 2014, when the
next wave of LNG plants in  Australia  will start up, it said.  “We see Australia helping to balance the market but It
won’t fully balance the market,” Walker said. “We see
continued tightness even with Australian supply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  