-- Samsung Supplies Apple With Touch Screen for New IPad
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-03-14T06:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/samsung-supplies-apple-with-touch-screen-for-new-ipad.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  will supply
the screen for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPad after  LG Display Co. (034220)  and
 Sharp Corp. (6753)  didn’t meet the U.S. company’s quality requirements,
an analyst with iSuppli said.  Samsung, the world’s top flat-panel maker, currently is the
sole vendor of the display for the 9.7-inch, touch-screen device
that goes on sale March 16, said Vinita Jakhanwal, a senior
manager at iSuppli, a unit of Englewood, Colorado-based IHS Inc.
Samsung’s shares surged to a record.  The supply deal deepens Apple’s  partnership  with Samsung,
which already makes the chips that power the iPhone and iPad,
even as the companies sue each other around the world regarding
patents. Apple unveiled a new version of the iPad last week that
features a sharper display and faster processor to fend off
growing competition from products including Samsung’s Galaxy
Tab.  Steve Park , a Seoul-based spokesman for Apple; Jason Kim, a
Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung; Claire Ohm, a Seoul-based
spokeswoman for LG Display; and Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman
for  Osaka , Japan-based Sharp, declined to comment.  “The display specifications on the new iPad are very
demanding in terms of the very high resolution,” Jakhanwal said
in an e-mail. “Achieving this high resolution without
compromising on the power consumption and brightness and
maintaining Apple’s quality standards are supposedly proving to
be a challenge for LG Display and Sharp.”  Patent Lawsuits  Samsung shares  climbed 2.4 percent to 1,250,000 won at the
close of Seoul trading, their highest since listing in June
1975. LG Display gained 0.4 percent to 28,300 won, compared with
a 1 percent rise in the benchmark Kospi index. Sharp added 4.3
percent to 531 yen in  Tokyo , after falling as much as 5.1
percent earlier in the day.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , and Samsung have
been locked in patent disputes concerning mobile technology and
design since April, when the iPhone maker accused the Suwon,
South Korea-based company of copying its products.  The iPad’s new display has four times as many pixels as the
previous version, making on-screen text, images and video appear
crisper and more realistic. Apple may almost double spending on
screens for tablets and smartphones this year, according to
iSuppli.  LG Display  Market research firm Gartner Inc., based in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , estimates 103.5 million tablet devices will be sold
in 2012, with Apple accounting for two-thirds of them.  LG Display is Apple’s largest vendor of liquid-crystal
displays used in the iPhone and older models of the iPad. The
Seoul-based company gets about 2 percent of its revenue from
Apple, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  LG Display and Sharp may start shipping panels for the new
iPad by April, said Jakhanwal, who’s based in  Santa Clara ,
California.  Apple may want to diversify its sources for the displays
because of the lawsuits with Samsung, said Kang Yoon Hum, a
Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co.  “Since the relationship between Apple and Samsung isn’t
great these days, Apple would want to get shipments elsewhere as
well,” Kang said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  