-- Santorum Wins in South; Gingrich Falters
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-03-14T19:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/santorum-says-romney-can-t-close-deal-with-republicans.html
Rick Santorum  won the  Alabama (BEESAL)  and
 Mississippi (BEESMS)  Republican presidential primaries, strengthening his
status as Mitt Romney’s main challenger and dealing a setback to
 Newt Gingrich .  Romney ran third in yesterday’s races, dashing his hopes
for showings in the Deep South that would have cemented his
front-runner position for the party’s nomination.  “We did it again,” Santorum told supporters last night in
Lafayette,  Louisiana . “He spent a whole lot of money against me
for being inevitable” he said, referring to Romney.  In Alabama, with 100 percent of the precincts reporting,
Santorum had 34.5 percent of the vote, according to the
Associated Press tally. Gingrich had 29.3 percent and Romney 29
percent, with Gingrich running ahead by about 2,000 votes. U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  had 5 percent.  In Mississippi, with all but one precinct out of 1,889
counted, Santorum had 32.8 percent of the vote, Gingrich 31.2
percent and Romney 30.6 percent, according to the AP tally.
Gingrich’s margin over Romney was just under 1,700 votes. Paul
trailed with 4.4 percent.  Romney won the Hawaii caucuses, garnering 45 percent of the
vote to Santorum’s 25 percent, with all precincts reporting, the
AP said. He also won the caucus in  American Samoa , according to
the AP.  Republican Bastions  The victories for Santorum, who has now won 10 contests,
showed he can outdo Romney in Republican bastions. Romney has
won 18 races and Gingrich has two victories, including one in
his home state of  Georgia .  Santorum’s supporters want to drive Gingrich from the race
to consolidate the opposition to Romney, who leads by more than
2-1 in the hunt for convention delegates. Gingrich, the former
U.S. House speaker from Georgia, had staked his campaign on
doing well in the South.  Gingrich gave no sign he planned to end his candidacy.
Speaking to supporters last night in Birmingham, Alabama, he
repeatedly talked of “going to Tampa,” referring to the August
Republican National Convention in that Florida city.  Gingrich focused on disputing Romney’s strength in the
Republican race.  “The elite media’s effort to convince the nation that Mitt
Romney is the inevitable candidate just collapsed,” he said.
“If you’re a front-runner and you keep coming in third, you’re
not much of a front-runner.”  ‘Mano-a-Mano’  Republican strategist Keith Appell in an e-mail last night
was among those calling on Gingrich to quit. “Newt has given it
a great run, but Rick Santorum has earned a mano-a-mano shot at
 Mitt Romney ,” Appell said.  Illinois ,  Puerto Rico  and Louisiana are among states
holding contests later this month. In April, the candidates will
vie for votes in the delegate-rich states of  New York ,
 Pennsylvania  and  Wisconsin , among others.  Santorum, who was campaigning today in Puerto Rico, is
closing the gap with Romney in Illinois, according to a Chicago
Tribune/WGN poll taken March 7-9. Romney had 35 percent,
Santorum 31 percent, Gingrich 12 percent and Paul 7 percent, the
newspaper reported. The poll’s margin of error was plus-or-minus
4 percentage points, and 46 percent of voters said they could
change their minds before the state’s March 20 primary.  Restore Our Future, an independent political committee
supporting Romney, paid for 927 broadcast television ads in
Illinois as of March 12, according to data from New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising. The ads cost an
estimated $455,950.  ‘Washington Politician’  Romney’s campaign began airing an ad today in Illinois that
attacks Santorum’s lack of business and executive experience and
describes him as a “Washington politician” who voted in the
Senate for the local spending projects known as earmarks.  Romney campaigned yesterday in  Missouri (BEESMO) , which will hold
caucuses on March 17. In an interview aired late yesterday
afternoon on CNN, Romney said Santorum was “at the desperate
end of his campaign.” He made the comment when asked about a
pro-Santorum ad that attacks Romney’s record as governor of
 Massachusetts .  He later flew to New York without making any public
comments about the  Alabama  and Mississippi results.  In an e-mailed statement after the outcomes were clear,
Romney congratulated Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator,
while saying he was “pleased that we will be increasing our
delegate count in a very substantial way.”  Delegate Count  His campaign increasingly has been stressing Romney’s
advantages in accumulating delegates.  In yesterday’s primary races, 90 delegates were at stake,
50 in Alabama and 40 in Mississippi, most awarded in proportion
to how each candidate did in the balloting.  Based on partial allocation of those delegates, Romney now
has 495 of the 1,144 delegates needed to win the nomination,
compared with 252 for Santorum and 131 for Gingrich, according
to AP estimates. Paul has 48 delegates.  Romney has struggled to win evangelical Christians and
social conservatives who are skeptical of his positions on such
issues as abortion and gay marriage.  Santorum and Gingrich have argued that the Republican
primary fight has demonstrated Romney would make a poor
challenger to Obama.  Women Voters  In both Alabama and  Mississippi , exit polls showed that
Santorum had the highest percentage of women voters. He also won
the plurality of voters under age 64 and those identifying
themselves as white evangelicals.  As they campaigned across the South, the three leading
candidates -- with the help of super-political action committees
-- exchanged verbal jabs in advertisements on the airways.
Super-PACs can raise and spend unlimited amounts of money on
campaign activity, as long as they don’t coordinate with
candidates.  Romney and his allies dominated the airwaves in Alabama and
Mississippi, according to CMAG.  Of the 7,138 broadcast ads that aired in the two states in
the past 30 days, 64 percent came from Romney or his super-PAC,
21 percent were from Gingrich or his super-PAC and 15 percent
were from Santorum’s super-PAC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  