-- Sarkozy Pulls Ahead of Hollande in First-Round Support
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-03-13T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/sarkozy-pulling-ahead-of-hollande-in-first-round-voting-plans-poll-shows.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
pulled ahead of Socialist Francois Hollande in first-round
voting intentions for the first time in the 2012 presidential
election campaign, a poll showed. Hollande maintained his lead
in second-round support.  Sarkozy leads in first-round intentions by 28.5 percent to
27 percent, according to a bi-weekly  Ifop Fiducial  poll for
Europe 1 radio, Paris Match and Public Senat. The survey was
carried out on March 11 and 12 among a sample of 1,638 people.
The margin of error is about 2.1 percentage points.  The survey, taken after Sarkozy called for a “Buy
European” act and tougher border controls, suggests that the
French leader may be winning over supporters from National Front
candidate Marine Le Pen, whose backing fell by one point to 16
percent. Hollande remains ahead in the second round with 54.5
percent, compared with 45.5 percent for Sarkozy.  “It is a turning point in the campaign,” Ifop pollster
Frederic Dabi said today on Europe 1 radio. “Yet the right has
few reserves for the second round.”  Hollande, a Socialist lawmaker and former party chief, has
been ahead of Sarkozy ever since he declared his candidacy on
March 23 last year. The gap for first-round voting intentions
widened to as much as 10 points in October, according to the
Ifop poll series.  ‘Keep Power’  “We must look at this poll with calm,”  Pierre Moscovici ,
Hollande’s campaign chief, told reporters in Paris today. “We
can see that the incumbent president is doing everything he can
to keep power.”  Faced with an unemployment rate of almost 10 percent,
Sarkozy has found it difficult to show that his first term was a
success, even while arguing that France has fared better than
countries such as the U.K. and  Spain . Sarkozy claims credit for
sheltering France from the euro-region’s crisis and says that
France’s strong role has helped save  Greece .  “For the past five years I’ve put everything into
protecting the French people from crises,” he said at a March
11 meeting in the town of Villepinte where more than 50,000
supporters rallied. Sarkozy also called for a “Buy European
Act” modeled on similar U.S. laws for some public contracts.  The first round of the elections will be held on April 22.
Under  France ’s election system, the top two candidates will then
face off in the decisive second round on May 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Deen at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
David Whitehouse at 
 dwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  