-- Scene Last Night: Blankfein, David Rubenstein, Rattner
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-03-13T14:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/scene-last-night-blankfein-david-rubenstein-rattner-redford.html
“The Roundabout, it’s a good
name,” actor and comedian Martin Short said last night at the
nonprofit theater company’s benefit. “I don’t know why. It’s
better than the Bernard Jacobs.”  The crack was at the expense of a theater named after a man
who helped run the Schubert Organization. The musical “Once”
opens at the Bernard B. Jacobs Theatre on Sunday.  Of course, the Roundabout Theatre Company’s venues are also
named for people: there’s the  Stephen Sondheim  and the Laura
Pels (named for a Roundabout board member).  Perhaps the coolest name in its repertoire is Studio 54,
the former Andy Warhol-dazed nightclub.  And then there’s evidence of corporate giving, the American
Airlines Theatre, created before the airline went bankrupt.  “I feel cozy and taken care of there,”  Matthew Broderick 
said of his time acting in the theater. “They serve brunch
between the two shows on Sundays. It’s not New York brunch, it’s
homemade.”  Pampering was the first order of business at the benefit.  “I just introduced our gala chairs to Dame  Julie Andrews ,” exclaimed Julia Levy, the Roundabout’s executive
director.  Guests included the kinds of names that seem destined for
buildings:  Lloyd Blankfein  and Gary Cohn of  Goldman Sachs (GS) ; Tom Tuft, a Lazard Ltd. executive and chairman of the Roundabout’s
board; and Michael Karsch, principal of the hedge fund Karsch
Capital Management LP.  Lincoln Center  Uptown at Lincoln Center, there was a man standing in a
building named after him: He was  David Rubenstein , co-founder of
 Carlyle Group LP (CG) , found in the David Rubenstein Atrium, which
hosts free concerts and serves as an information center for the
performing-arts complex.  The occasion was a gala honoring Betty Levin, a corporate-
art consultant and Lincoln Center board member.  Later Rubenstein and Levin moved to Alice Tully Hall for
dinner. Thomas H. Lee and Steven L. Rattner were among the
guests who joined them.  The evening was not yet over. At the Bowery Hotel, another
theater-loving crowd gathered to support the Sundance
Institute’s artistic-development programs.  Robert Redford  came in for a photo, Beau Bridges circulated
with a glass of red wine in hand, and  Kenneth Cole  sat for
dinner with George Hornig of Pinebridge Investments LLC.  Love Song  Christine Ebersole performed a song from the musical “Grey
Gardens,” developed at Sundance.  Child star Georgi James performed a song from a work in
progress also developed at Sundance. It was a love song about a
“young gay woman at seven years old,” said composer Jeanine Tesori.  Here are some of the lyrics, which James sang beautifully -
- no, handsomely -- with equal parts maturity and innocence:  “I see your short hair and your dungarees and your lace-up
boots ... Do you feel my heart saying hi?”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 