-- Seat Pagine Sees $1.7 Billion Debt Deal Done in October
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-03-13T07:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/seat-pagine-s-cappellini-sees-1-7-billion-debt-deal-completed-in-october.html
Seat Pagine Gialle SpA (PG) , whose
bondholders agreed this month to a 1.28 billion-euro ($1.7
billion) debt-for-equity swap proposal, may take seven months to
complete the plan, its chief executive officer said.  Junior bondholders are set to receive stock representing 88
percent of  Italy ’s largest directory publisher in October,
Alberto Cappellini said in a telephone interview. The stake held
by the current biggest shareholder, a group including CVC Capital
Partners Ltd., will drop to 6 percent from about 50 percent.  Turin-based Seat Pagine, which began negotiations on its
debt a year ago, said last week that its debt restructuring plan
won the backing of more than 97 percent of senior bondholders,
the last class of creditors required to approve the proposal.
Phonebook publishers in  Europe  have been struggling as users and
advertisers ditched printed directories for online searches.  “My focus is getting back on the business,” the CEO said
yesterday. “In the past six months, I spent 80 percent of my
time on the restructuring and 20 percent on running the
business, from now on it will be the other way round.”  Seat Pagine is set to release results for 2011 in April and
earnings and sales will be in line with the company’s forecasts,
the CEO said. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will be “halfway” in the company’s projected
range of 365 million euros to 385 million euros, he said.  Google Deal  Seat Pagine has beefed up its Internet offerings. Last year
online revenue exceeded print sales for the first time,
Cappellini said. The company plans to generate 80 percent of
revenue from the Web in 2015 and is still evaluating whether to
purchase Glamoo, a company it has a couponing partnership with.  “Entering in a massive way into e-commerce is strategic
for us,” the CEO said. An accord with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to offer its
clients campaigns based on the AdWords advertising system for
Internet searches in addition to its own services in Italy is
also “going very well,” Cappellini said.  Senior bondholders have to formally sign off the plan at a
meeting on March 29 or 30. Seat Pagine investors will also be
asked to approve the proposal at a shareholder meeting in May or
June, the CEO said.  “There will be formal and implementation steps in coming
months that will take time but the bulk of the work has been
done,” Cappellini said. “The company is halving its debt and
the new  capital structure  will be much more balanced and allow
it to seize growth opportunities.”  Acquisitions, Disposals  The company said March 2 it got “full support” for the
debt proposal from its controlling investors CVC, Permira
Advisers and Investitori Associati.  After the deal, Seat Pagine will still have about 1.4
billion euros of debt, which is “completely sustainable,”
Cappellini said. Borrowings will be below 4 times net debt to
Ebitda, he said.  “We may seek to refinance the outstanding debt between now
and 2016 if there are opportunities,” the CEO said.  The publisher is still considering the sale of its stakes
in directory-service provider  Telegate AG (TGT)  and Thomson
Directories Ltd. in the U.K., the CEO said, adding that these
deals wouldn’t happen before October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  