-- Second N.Y. Woman Pleads Not Guilty in Prostitution Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-03-13T21:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/second-n-y-woman-pleads-not-guilty-in-prostitution-case-1-.html
Jaynie Baker, the second woman
charged with running a New York brothel that catered to high-
net-worth clients, pleaded not guilty after returning from
 Mexico  and surrendering to authorities.  Baker, 30, entered the plea to one count of promoting
prostitution in the third degree today in state  Supreme Court  in
 Manhattan . She was released after Justice  Juan Merchan  set her
bail at $100,000, an amount agreed on by prosecutors and Baker’s
lawyer.  During the arraignment hearing, Charles Linehan, a
prosecutor in the office of Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., told Merchan that there had been “a lot of
surveillance in this case,” including audio and video
recordings and information from informants about Baker’s role in
the alleged ring.  Anna Gristina, a British subject who is a U.S. resident,
was arrested and charged Feb. 22 with promoting prostitution.
Linehan said the investigation is continuing.  “She has been in matchmaking -- legitimate matchmaking,”
said Robert Gottlieb, Baker’s lawyer, outside court. Gottlieb
described his client as “a wonderful, smart, educated, caring
woman.”  Baker left the courthouse without speaking to reporters and
was driven away in a black town car.  Return from Mexico  Gottlieb said Baker was in  Cabo San Lucas , Mexico, with her
younger sister last week when she learned from friends that
reporters were trying to contact her. Gottlieb said he called
Vance’s office March 9 to arrange Baker’s return and surrender.  “There was no question about her returning,” Gottlieb
said after the hearing.  Gristina, a legal permanent resident of the U.S., pleaded
not guilty. The Manhattan district attorney’s investigation
included “at least one eyewitness account” of a sexual
encounter arranged by Gristina in which minors were involved,
Linehan told Merchan on Feb. 23, a day after her arrest,
according to a court transcript.  Gristina has business contacts worldwide, made millions of
dollars and counts “many” affluent people as friends and
clients, prosecutors said, according to the transcript.  Merchan ruled earlier this week that Gristina can have
free legal counsel. He will decide later this week whether Peter
Gleason, a second lawyer and friend who has also been advising
her, can use his $2.5 million Tribeca apartment to guarantee her
bail, set at a $2 million bond or $1 million in cash.  Banker’s Office  At the time of her arrest, Gristina was in the office of
“a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  banker who she counts as a close friend,”
Linehan said. The Morgan Stanley employee is David Spencer
Walker, according to a person briefed on the matter.  Gristina was at Walker’s office “for a meeting in which
she was trying to solicit money to fund what we believe is
another illicit business venture on the Internet that involves
matching up male clients with female prostitutes,” Linehan
said.  Prosecutors haven’t accused Walker of wrongdoing or
identified him publicly. He works for Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney, the firm’s retail brokerage, said the person, who didn’t
want to be identified because Walker wasn’t named in the case.  Walker has been placed on administrative leave during the
investigation,  Jim Wiggins , a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, has
said previously.  The case is People v. Gristina, 12-00751,  New York State
Supreme Court (338265L) , New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 