-- Serbia Schedules Parliamentary Elections for May 6
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-03-13T13:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/serbia-to-vote-for-parliament-on-may-6-tanjug-reports.html
Serbian President  Boris Tadic 
called parliamentary elections for May 6 as the Balkan country
works to start European Union membership talks and resume a
funding agreement with the International Monetary Fund.  The forthcoming ballot is a “chance to unite around
central strategic goals,” Tadic said in a statement on his
 website  today. “The new government will have to make tough and
complex decisions to ensure a better future for the citizens,”
the report said.  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic’s government wants to stay
in power after wrapping up four years in office, the first
cabinet in 12 years to have lasted its full term. The largest
ex-Yugoslav republic was declared a candidate to join the EU on
March 1, taking a further step out of the isolation it suffered
after the Yugoslav wars of the 1990s.  Serbia  relied on the EU for trade and investment over the
past decade, while the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  cut
demand for Serbian exports. The government lost support from the
International Monetary Fund, which froze its $1.3 billion
precautionary loan program in January after discovering that the
nation would exceed the 2012 budget gap and debt targets.  Cvetkovic led a coalition government of Tadic’s Democratic
Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia, once led by former Serbian
strongman  Slobodan Milosevic , and the G17+ party of technocrats
and economic liberals. All three political groups will run
independently for the new parliament.  Weak Dinar  The election campaign begins at a time when the dinar is at
its weakest levels since Milosevic’s fall in 2000, unemployment
at 24.4 percent and growth of 0.5 percent at best according to
the central bank and the  International Monetary Fund  forecasts.  Serbia’s future in the 27-nation bloc will be the main
foreign policy issue, Marko Blagojevic, director of operations
at the Belgrade-based Center for Free Elections and Democracy,
said in a phone interview.  “It would be fair to say that eventual membership in the
EU is not seen as a goal in itself but rather as means for
achieving what people are fundamentally interested in, a higher
living standard,” he said.  Tadic’s ruling pro-Western Democrats have the support of
27.5 percent of 1,550 people polled in an opinion survey held by
the  Center for Democracy and Development   in the first week of
March. The opposition Serbian Progressive Party were backed by
29 percent of the voters, according to the survey, which did not
provide an error margin.  “Only when the accession talks begin, the process of
European integration will be irreversible,” Tadic said in a
speech to his party on March 10, adding there will be no post-
election coalitions with the biggest opposition Serbian
Progressive Party, which is more popular than the ruling
 Democratic party .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  