-- Siemens to Tackle Wind-Power Doldrums With Gas Boost Option
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-03-13T14:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/siemens-to-tackle-wind-power-doldrums-with-gas-boost-option.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  plans to introduce
technology in 2015 that will allow wind-turbine electricity to
be converted into gas, giving wind farms an alternative revenue
stream when the grid is fully charged.  The electrolyser, a soccer-field sized plant that converts
power into storable hydrogen, is in the testing phase, said
Michael Weinhold, chief technology officer of Siemens’ energy
businesses. It promises to overcome the challenge of how to
harness fluctuating electricity output from wind farms,
especially at night when demand is at its lowest.  Siemens, based in Munich, allots 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) annually to devising new technology for the  energy
industry . Wind farms have suffered commercially because power
can’t be stored on a large scale. By contrast, the converted
hydrogen can be stored by feeding it into the gas grid.  “The main problem today is the mismatch of renewable power
generation and demand,” Weinhold said in an interview. “If we
can offer solutions to solve that, we have a business case.”  While  Germany  subsidizes renewable energy, there’s no
reimbursement when supply exceeds demand. Prices on the  European
Energy (CNE)  Exchange have on occasion turned negative, implying wind
farms pay to offload output.  Europe ’s largest economy has about
half a gigawatt of offshore wind-power connected to the grid,
and aims for a 20-fold increase to 10 gigawatts by 2020 after
turning away from nuclear power.  Electrolysers may appeal to utilities or financial
investors seeking to profit from fluctuating electricity prices,
Weinhold said. For Siemens, it’s part of a plan to boost revenue
from energy equipment by more than 40 percent. Siemens booked
203 million euros in charges in its most recent quarter at its
power-transmission division amid delays connecting offshore wind
parks to the  power grid .  “We believe storage will make economic sense if more and
more renewable power comes on-line and depresses power prices
during peak supply times, a trend we will already witness this
year,” Weinhold said. “We are currently testing the technology
with customers, and it’s at the brink of being commercially
viable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 