-- SNB Wins Respite as Franc Ceiling Outlives Hildebrand Era
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-03-14T10:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/snb-wins-respite-as-swiss-franc-ceiling-outlives-hildebrand-era.html
Swiss central bank interim chairman
Thomas Jordan will tomorrow bid to prolong the success of his
predecessor’s currency policy as the economy shows signs of
regaining strength.  Jordan, in his first decision as chief, will maintain the
ceiling of 1.20 francs per euro, according to all 14 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. That level hasn’t been breached in
the six months since its creation. The  Swiss National Bank ,
which will announce its decision at 9:30 a.m. in Zurich, will
also keep borrowing costs at zero, a separate survey shows.  Jordan, 49, found himself at the forefront of defending the
franc cap against investors seeking a haven from the euro-
region’s turmoil after Philipp Hildebrand quit in January. As
the Swiss economy shows signs of stabilization and surging
energy costs drive up prices across  Europe , the SNB may have
room to keep the ceiling on hold for some months, economists at
banks including UBS AG and UniCredit Group said.  “With the economy seemingly avoiding a recession and fears
of deflation receding, there’s no need for the SNB to act on its
cap and the benchmark rate anytime soon,” said Caesar Lack, an
economist at UBS AG’s Wealth Management Research in Zurich.
“However, they might give first hints of longer-term inflation
risks which could justify a tightening further down the road”  Franc Surge  The SNB, which won’t hold a briefing, will also publish its
latest economic projections. At the December quarterly meeting,
it forecast consumer prices to fall 0.3 percent this year before
climbing 0.4 percent in 2013. The economy will expand 0.5
percent this year, it said.  The franc traded at 1.2107 versus the euro at 11:07 a.m. in
Zurich, little changed on the day. Versus the dollar, it was at
92.67 centimes.  The franc gained as much as 37 percent against the euro in
the 12 months before the cap was introduced on Sept. 6, hurting
exporters including watchmaker  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , as the region’s
worsening fiscal crisis prompted investors to pile into the
currency. It has since traded between 1.20 and 1.25 per euro,
with Jordan and board member Jean-Pierre Danthine pledging to
defend the measure “with the utmost determination” if needed.  “There will be a time when we return to a normal
situation,” Jordan said at an event in Zurich on Feb. 28.
“Financial markets will calm down and there will be less need
for a safe haven. At the moment, the franc is overvalued.”  ‘Negative Scenarios’  “Franc buyers are still paying a premium for hedging
against the risk of negative scenarios,” said Jan Amrit Poser,
chief economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich. “Evidently, the
nascent economic recovery and subsiding euro-debt crisis have
not yet eased investors’ risk aversion sufficiently.”  Euro-area finance ministers on March 13 signed off on a
second Greek bailout, clearing the way for the first payment
from the 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) package to be made this
month. The agreement caps months of grueling negotiations that
sparked concerns that the nation may be forced to default.  The SNB spent 17.8 billion francs ($19.4 billion) in 2011
to stem what it called the currency’s “massive overvaluation.”
That compares with 144 billion francs it used in the previous
year to buy currencies, a policy that sparked a record loss. The
Swiss government is set to confirm whether it will appoint
Jordan as the new chairman next month.  “Markets believe that the limit will hold,” said  Claude Maurer , an economist at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in Zurich. “The
SNB’s assertions proven so credible that they didn’t need much
money to defend the cap.”  Hildebrand ‘Too Strong’  Swiss President Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf today defended
Hildebrand, saying he did an “excellent job” and reiterated
that it’s important to have an independent central bank.  “Hildebrand was probably a little bit too strong for some
political forces and he couldn’t be influenced enough,” she
told the lower house of parliament in Bern during a debate.
“The SNB was and is able to act. Fortunately for our country,
we have a strong institution.”  The Swiss economy is showing some signs of regaining
strength. The KOF leading indicator improved in February,
manufacturing contracted at a weaker pace and the BAK Basel
Institute said on March 6 it expects gross domestic product to
rise 0.7 percent this year instead of a previously estimated 0.4
percent, with the economy averting a recession.  Swiss investor confidence rose for a third month in March,
the ZEW Center for European Economic Research said today.  Deflation Risk  Still, exports may increase just 0.6 percent this year
before expanding 3.6 percent in 2013, a survey by the Zurich-
based KOF economic research institute showed last week. Swiss
dental-implant maker  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN)  said last month
it’s cautious about 2012 after fourth-quarter profit missed
analysts’ estimates on lower sales from Europe and  Japan .  Even after the introduction of the cap, the euro’s value
versus the Swiss currency is still 7 percent below last year’s
levels, highlighting the risk of deflation as costs for imported
goods drop. The price of foreign goods fell 3.4 percent in
February from a year ago.  With the ceiling stabilizing the  exchange rate  and surging
energy costs likely to feed into consumer prices over the coming
months, this development will reverse, said  Alexander Koch , an
economist at UniCredit in Munich.  “The deflationary effect of imported goods will fade over
the next months,” he said “For next year, I even expect the
SNB to raise its overall inflation forecast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  