-- Soaring Target2 Imbalances Stoke German Risk Angst: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-03-13T07:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/soaring-target2-imbalances-stoke-german-risk-angst-euro-credit.html
German angst is growing as an entry
on the  Bundesbank ’s balance sheet swells to a sum worth about 20
percent of economic output, a sign of the extent to which
 Europe ’s largest economy is funding the region’s laggards.  The  European Central Bank ’s Target2 system, which
calculates debts between the euro region’s central banks, shows
the Bundesbank is owed 489 billion euros ($656 billion), up
almost 65 percent from a year earlier. German central bank
President Jens Weidmann wrote to ECB President  Mario Draghi  last
month to warn about growing systemic risks, Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper reported Feb. 29.  “The Germans are very much justified in their concern,”
said  John Whittaker , an economist at Lancaster University
Management School, who  drew attention  to the growing imbalances
in papers published last year. “The Target2 liabilities are
just as risky and just as real as holding the government bonds
of Greece and other peripherals.”  Investors demand a yield  premium  of about 3.28 percentage
points to hold  Spain ’s 10-year debt rather than Germany’s, and
3.15 percentage points to own  Italian (.10ITALY)  securities rather than
bunds. Both levels are more than double their averages for the
past five years.  Italy  had a Target2 deficit of 191 billion
euros as of Dec. 30, while  Spain’s  was 175 billion euros and
Ireland owed 80 billion euros, according to figures compiled by
their central banks.  ‘Dependent on Germany’  “There would have been a current-account crisis years ago
in a multi currency area,” said Darren Williams, who helps
oversee about $420 billion as chief European economist at
AllianceBernstein in London. “The periphery is dependent on
Germany and the core to fund their consumption.”  The Target2 system, named for the Trans-European Automated
Real-Time Gross Settlement System, is part of the common
currency’s plumbing system to settle transactions.  A Greek importer, for example, might  place an order  with a
German company. Payments to and from the accounts of the buyer
and seller are channeled via central banks, so the German
exporter’s bank gets a credit with the Bundesbank, which in turn
has a claim on the ECB. The Greek importer’s bank owes its local
central bank, leaving the Bank of  Greece  with a debit at the
ECB.  Transactions across the 17-member euro region produce a net
surplus or deficit between countries at the ECB, and the system
depends on each country being able to meet its obligations. The
less willing commercial banks are to deal with each other, the
more lopsided the balances between central banks become. The
Dutch central bank has claims on its peers of 153 billion euros,
while Luxembourg is owed 110 billion euros, according to
Whittaker.  To The Limit  “The Bundesbank effectively ends up with loans to the
other national central banks that are reflected in the Target2
claims on the Eurosystem,” said  Andrew Bosomworth , a managing
director at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Munich. “The
 euro zone  is doing fiscal policy-like stuff through monetary
policy, but it’s not going through the same democratic process.
It’s not a good thing from a voter’s perspective when you push
it to the limit.”  Greece, which had a Target2 deficit of 105 billion euros as
of the end of November, last week carried out the biggest-ever
sovereign debt restructuring, forcing private creditors to
forego more than half of their principal.  Damaged Collateral  The bonds Greece is issuing in exchange for existing debt
are worth less than 30 percent of face value, suggesting
investors expect the nation to need another bailout. Bonds of
 Portugal  have yielded more than 12 percent every day bar one
since Nov. 24, even as the ECB continues to support the market
by  buying the notes . The nation’s 10-year borrowing cost is
currently 13.83 percent, up from 12.77 percent on Feb. 24.  The Target2 system is underpinned by the collateral held by
the central banks, and its stability depends in part on how the
value of those assets compares with how much has been borrowed
against them.  Germany ’s Target2 position is now large enough to account
for half of its net investment abroad, according to Greg Fuzesi,
an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. He questions the
value of some of the assets in use, citing government-guaranteed
bonds that Italian banks issued to themselves and used to back
borrowings through the ECB’s three-year  longer term refinancing
operations .  Collateral represents “a real credit risk,” according to
a research report by Guntram Wolff, deputy director of Bruegel,
a Brussels-based research institute. “If the risk materializes
in the future, the Eurosystem will incur losses.”  Only Connect  Using money borrowed from the ECB to repay bonds held by
foreigners, may increase the imbalances, Fuzesi said. “The risk
of the Eurosystem is very much a function of the collateral
that’s been posted by the periphery and of the risk management
tools applied to it by the central banks,” he said.  Asymmetries in the system will correct as peripheral
economies again attract funds from core countries as bailouts,
bank recapitalization and declining current-account imbalances
restore confidence. A break-up of the euro, however would
crystallize the risks, he said.  Target2 makes countries “very, very interlinked,” Fuzesi
said. “Everyone has an interest in holding the system together.
Certainly the Germans do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  