-- SocGen's Shimamoto Urges Longer Bond Durations in Japan
-- B y   Y u m i   I k e d a   a n d   N o b u y u k i   A k a m a
-- 2012-03-13T23:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/socgen-s-shimamoto-urges-longer-bond-durations-in-japan.html
Japan should issue debt of longer
maturities to minimize the risk of a collapse of  government
bonds  that could send yields soaring, according to  Societe
Generale (GLE)  Securities’ Tokyo branch manager  Koji Shimamoto .
Shimamoto spoke yesterday in Tokyo at a seminar hosted by
Bloomberg.  On a potential collapse in Japanese bonds:  “The main scenario we see is a gradual steepening of the
yield curve. We can’t completely discount the danger of a bond
collapse.”  “If the yen were to weaken further and the Bank of Japan
were to raise rates to protect the currency, there would be the
risk that government finances would go out of control.”  “By issuing more bonds of ultra-long maturity and
lengthening the average duration of bonds, it would be possible
to control risk.”  On the extent to which Japan’s finances are sustainable:  “If the  Bank of Japan (8301)  ever had to abandon its low-interest
rate policies, short-term rates would rise and force people to
pay more interest. Huge amounts of short-term bonds have been
issued to finance currency interventions. The average duration
of bonds is extremely short.”  On Japanese bond buyers:  “If electricity rates and prices were to rise, people may
shift funds from bank deposits into other types of assets. Banks
and life insurers are currently the main purchasers of
government bonds. Controlling how households and overseas
investors behave isn’t possible.”  On the immediate outlook for Japanese bonds:  “From the latter half of the year into next year, yields
may gradually rise, and the yield curve will continue to
steepen.”  To contact the translator on this story:
Taku Kato in  Tokyo  at 
 tkato6@bloomberg.net   To contact the translation editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Annells at 
 jannells@bloomberg.net ;
Naoto Hosoda at 
 nhosoda@bloomberg.net  