-- SodaStream Surges as New Model Spells Sales: Israel Overnight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-03-13T08:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/sodastream-surges-as-new-model-spells-sales-israel-overnight.html
SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the
Israeli maker of soda machines, climbed the most in three months
in  New York  on speculation a new model will help the company
bolster sales and fend off competitors.  SodaStream, which makes products that turn water into more
than 100 flavors of carbonated beverages, gained 9 percent to
$37.68 in U.S. trading yesterday, the biggest advance since Nov.
28. The shares plunged 15 percent last week as Winston-Salem,
North Carolina-based  Primo Water Corp. (PRMW)  said it will sell home
soft-drink machines that may compete with SodaStream’s. The
 Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most-traded Israeli
companies in New York slid 0.7 percent yesterday. The  TA-25 (TA-25) 
benchmark index rose 0.7 percent at 10 a.m. in  Tel Aviv .  SodaStream’s new device, which makes soda more quickly,
demonstrates innovation that may help the company stave off
competition, according to Joseph Altobello, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. The machine, called Revolution, may help
Airport City, Israel-based SodaStream boost unit sales growth
that slowed to 8 percent in the fourth quarter, according to Jim Chartier, an analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co.  “Consumer demand for SodaStream remains very strong,”
Chartier said by phone from  Chicago , where he attended the
International Home and Housewares Show. “The combination of
them officially launching this machine, and people actually
getting to see it in action,” helped to boost shares, he said.  Primo Water introduced a line of carbonated beverage-
makers, including a single-serve machine that retails for $299
and will be available in the fall, Mark Castaneda, the company’s
chief executive officer, said by phone from Winston-Salem.  ‘Building a Category’  “We’re building a category with SodaStream,” Castaneda
said. “We’re not trying to take away share, we’re trying to
build share together. We’re taking share from Coke and Pepsi.”  Primo Water’s  shares  gained 5.6 percent yesterday to $2.82.
The  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  fell 0.2 percent, slipping for the
first time in four days.  SodaStream’s machine, scheduled to begin selling by the
fourth quarter, will cost less than $200 and reduce the time
needed to make a liter of soda compared to the manually operated
devices, according to a company statement. Potential sales from
new products are not reflected in SodaStream’s stock, which
trades for 17.1 times analysts’ earnings estimates,
Oppenheimer’s Altobello said.  Competition ‘Very Manageable’  “This is a meaningful step forward for the company, as it
improves the consumer experience,” Altobello wrote in an e-
mailed report dated March 11. Altobello reiterated a 12- to 18-
month price target of $55, and an outperform rating on the
stock, meaning he expects it to do slightly better than the
market return. “We continue to believe competition remains very
manageable as SodaStream’s innovation pipeline, coupled with its
first-mover advantage and distribution gains, position it very
well for future growth.”  SodaStream displayed the “first commercial version” of
the Revolution machine to the public this past weekend at the
Chicago Home and Housewares show, said Yonah Lloyd, the
company’s executive director of corporate development and
communication. Lloyd said that SodaStream may introduce a
single-serve soda machine in 2013. He declined to comment on
sales projections.  The slowdown in unit sales growth to 8 percent in the
fourth quarter from 60 percent in the third quarter came after
clients including  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY)  made holiday-season
purchases in the third quarter, Lloyd said last week. Revenue
jumped 39 percent in 2011 and is projected to grow 30 percent
this year, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Ceragon Rises  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the  Nasdaq ,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China . The nation
is also home to more startup companies per capita than the U.S.  Ceragon Networks Ltd. (CRNT)  advanced 0.4 percent to $9.05 in New
York yesterday. The shares in Tel Aviv rose 2.4 percent to 34.90
shekels today, or the equivalent of $9.27. The maker of
wireless-networking systems said in a statement that it received
a $6 million contract to provide mobile  network equipment  to
Globacom Nigeria.  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , the largest U.S. maker of generic over-the-
counter drugs, fell 0.5 percent to $104.55 in New York
yesterday. The company’s Tel Aviv shares declined 0.1 percent to
395.40 shekels, or the equivalent of $104.97 today.  Refael Lebel, president of Perrigo’s Israeli unit, died
March 11 in New York, according to company spokesman Arthur
Shannon. An announcement hasn’t been made on who will fill the
position.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  