-- Somalia’s al-Shabaab Denies Responsibility for Kenya Bomb Attack
-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 2012-03-13T11:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/somalia-s-al-shabaab-denies-responsibility-for-kenya-bomb-attack.html
Somalia’s al-Qaeda-linked al-
Shabaab militia denied responsibility for a grenade attack in
neighboring  Kenya ’s capital, Nairobi, three days ago that killed
seven people.  “Contrary to the specious allegations of the Kenyan
government, Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen bears no
responsibility whatsoever for the turbulence that reigns over
the country,” the militia said in an e-mailed statement today.  Four people are still missing and 52 people are in the
hospital after the March 10 blasts in which hand grenades were
thrown from a moving vehicle at passengers waiting at a bus
station on the outskirts of Nairobi’s city center, the Kenya Red
Cross said on its website today. Police suspect “sympathizers of
al-Shabaab” were responsible for the attack, Charles Owino,
deputy spokesman for the Kenyan police, said on March 11.  Al-Shabaab threatened to carry out attacks in Kenya after
the East African nation deployed its army in southern Somalia in
mid-October to fight the militants. The rebel group has waged a
campaign since 2007 to topple Somalia’s United Nations-backed
government and establish an Islamic state.  Two weeks after the Kenyan incursion began, one person died
and at least 20 were injured in two separate bomb blasts in
Nairobi that the government said were inspired by al-Shabaab.  Al-Shabaab previously “cautioned the Kenyan government and
warned of cataclysmic consequences should Kenya continue to
pursue the belligerent path of invasion,” the group said today.
“The rampant insecurity that now prevails in the streets of
Kenya, and the wave of public anxiety therein, conspicuously
foreshadows the perilous turn of events ahead.”  The U.S. Embassy in Kenya today condemned the attack and
urged travellers to be aware of security concerns in the
country.  “We applaud Kenyan efforts to bring to justice those who
perpetrated this cowardly act of violence and will continue to
cooperate closely with Kenyan authorities to combat terrorism in
Kenya and the region,” the embassy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 