-- South Africa Stocks: 1time, Anglo, BHP, Mvelaserve, Trencor
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-13T16:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/south-africa-stocks-anglo-american-bhp-billiton-york-timber.html
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
advanced for the fourth time in five days, gaining 0.8 percent
to 34,175.39 by the close in Johannesburg.  The following were among the most active equities in the
South African market today. Stock symbols follow company names.  1time Holdings Ltd. (1TM)  (1TM SJ), a South African low-cost
airline and technical maintenance company, fell to the lowest in
almost four weeks, dropping 5 percent to 19 cents. Rodney James
quit as chief executive officer of 1time Airline (Pty) Ltd. and
Executive Director Michael Kaminski also resigned, the company
said in a statement today, without giving reasons for the
resignations.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  , the diversified miner that
makes up about 9 percent of the index, added 0.8 percent to
307.35 rand, erasing yesterday’s decline. Copper climbed to the
highest price in more than a week on speculation an accelerating
economic recovery in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest
consumer of the metal, will fuel demand.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BIL)  , the world’s biggest miner,
gained 1.8 percent to 242.36 rand, the highest in more than a
week.  Mvelaserve Ltd. (MVS)  , a securities and facilities
management company, fell the most since its listing on the stock
exchange in November 2010. Earnings per share for the six months
through December will be as much as 85 percent lower than a year
earlier, the company said today.  Trencor Ltd. (TRE)  , an  investment company , increased to
42.3 rand, the highest level since at least August 1990, when
Bloomberg started compiling data. Non-executive director Herman Wessels bought 25,000 shares on March 9, boosting confidence in
the stock, Hennie Fourie, a portfolio manager at PSG Konsult,
said by telephone from  Pretoria .  York Timber Holdings Ltd. (YRK)   climbed to its highest
in more than seven weeks, advancing 0.8 percent to 3.65 rand,
after the sawmill operator said earnings per share excluding
one-time items more than doubled to 13 cents in the six months
through December from a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  