-- South Korea’s Unemployment Rate Rose to 3.7% in February
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-03-14T02:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/south-korea-s-unemployment-rate-rose-to-3-7-in-february.html
South Korea ’s  workforce  swelled in
February as the economy’s resilience to a Europe-induced export
slump helped spur more people to look for jobs, pushing up the
unemployment rate by the most in two years.  The number of employed people increased by 51,000 to 23.8
million last month from January, the first monthly gain since
October, Statistics Korea said in Gwacheon today. The jobless
rate jumped to 3.7 percent from 3.2 percent, the biggest
increase since January 2010 and higher than the median estimate
for 3.2 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 11 economists.  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy, which grew the least last
quarter in two years, is getting some support from the
government accelerating spending and the central bank keeping
 interest rates  on hold for nine months. The unemployment rate
was still lower than the 3.9 percent in February 2011.  “We believe this jump was due to the larger-than-expected
influx of college graduates and other job seekers in the job
market,” Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at  Barclays
Capital (JNK)  in  Singapore . “It masks the underlying strong labor
market conditions.”  The Bank of Korea said last week the economy appears not to
be slowing further and will likely return to its long-term
growth track.  The won fell 0.1 percent to 1,122.95 per dollar in Seoul as
of 10:39 a.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark Kospi stock index gained 1.3 percent.  New Graduates  The seasonally unadjusted  unemployment rate  was 4.2 percent
in February, compared with 3.5 percent in January and 4.5
percent a year earlier, today’s report showed.  The “jobless rate tends to rise in the first few months of
a year as students graduate in February and look for jobs,”
Song Seong Heon, director at Statistics Korea, told reporters in
Gwacheon today. “The jobless rate will decline sooner or later
as they find jobs. Other job data shows the labor market is
still healthy.”  South Korea’s  Finance Ministry  said in a statement today
that the economy will see steady employment increases next month
as some companies face labor shortages, the number of startups
increases and a state job program starts in March.  The central bank projected in December that new jobs will
decline to 280,000 this year from 400,000 last year, with the
jobless rate rising to 3.4 percent. The bank cut its growth
forecast for this year to 3.7 percent from 4.6 percent estimated
in July, compared with a 3.6 percent gain last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  