-- Sovereign Purchases Quadrupling Mimics U.S. Banks’ Holdings: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-03-13T03:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/sovereign-purchases-quadrupling-mimics-u-s-banks-holdings-india-credit.html
India ’s banks have quadrupled
purchases of government bonds to bring their total ownership to
a record, undermining policy makers’ efforts to inject cash into
Asia’s third-biggest economy.  Lenders, which  bought  130 billion rupees ($2.6 billion) in
the final three months of last year, added 522 billion rupees
this quarter, taking holdings to 17.4 trillion rupees. Federal
securities will be a “good investment proposition,” Indian
Overseas Bank Chairman and Managing Director M. Narendra said in
an interview from the southern Indian city of  Chennai  yesterday.  The central bank cut  reserve requirements  for lenders by 75
basis points on March 9 to ease a shortage of cash in the
financial system as companies pay taxes this month. In the U.S.,
banks and treasuries bought more government and related debt in
the first two months of 2012 than they did in all of 2011.  Indian notes have returned an annualized 17.5 percent this
year, compared with Chinese securities that earned 1.1 percent
and  U.S. debt  that lost 3.1 percent, according to Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch data. Yields on rupee-denominated bonds
will drop further as the central bank cuts its benchmark
repurchase rate by 100 basis points in the fiscal year starting
April, according to  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  and IndusInd Bank Ltd.  ‘High Amount’  “ Government securities  are very attractive, and with rate
cuts expected, bank treasuries would be buying bonds,” N.S.
Venkatesh, Mumbai-based head of treasury at state-run IDBI, said
in an interview on March 9. “Sovereign yields are likely to
fall further.”  Commercial lenders in the U.S. purchased $78.2 billion of
Treasuries and securities of agencies in January and February,
compared with $62.6 billion in all of 2011, bringing their
holdings to $1.78 trillion, Federal Reserve data show.  India’s banks boosted holdings of government bonds by 415.3
billion rupees in the two weeks through Feb. 10, the largest
increase since the period ended Oct. 7. Lenders hold a “high
amount” of sovereign debt and need to reduce ownership,  Reserve
Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on March 9, when
the monetary authority cut  reserve requirements  to 4.75 percent.  The yield on India’s benchmark bonds rose one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.31 percent today, before
tomorrow’s government data that economists predict will show
inflation accelerated to 6.7 percent in February from 6.6
percent the month before. The increase in yield  pared  the drop
for this year to 27 basis points. Yields on similar-maturity
securities have climbed 11 basis points in  China (CTCNY10Y)  in 2012 and 16
basis points in the  U.S (USGG10YR) .  Slowing Economy  Credit  growth  at Indian banks is slowing as lenders put
more money into  government bonds . Loans rose 15.6 percent in the
year through Feb. 24, the least since 12 months through January
2010, according to central bank data.  Rupee-denominated debt will rally further as a stalling
economy prompts policy makers to cut the repurchase rate by 50
basis points in 2012, according to state-owned  Bank of India .
Gross domestic product  rose  6.1 percent in three months through
December, the least since the first quarter of 2009, according
to government data.  “It is reasonable to position oneself with expectations
that rate reductions will start soon,” N. Seshadri, a Mumbai-
based executive director at Bank of India, said in an interview
yesterday. “The present level of  interest rates  aren’t helping
achieve sustainable growth.”  Bank Borrowings  The rally in bonds is attracting global funds, which have
boosted their holdings of Indian debt every month since October.
They have raised their ownership by $5.1 billion in 2012,
spurring gains in the rupee. The currency strengthened 0.1
percent to 49.9250 per dollar today. The rupee has rebounded 6.3
percent this year after slumping 16 percent in 2011, the worst
performance in  Asia .  Cash availability at lenders has worsened on speculation
the central bank kept buying rupees to stem the decline in the
currency. Banks borrowed an average 1.33 trillion rupees a day
from the Reserve Bank this month, more than double the 600
billion-rupee limit favored by the monetary authority.  The shortage of funds is likely to persist as Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  will announce a higher borrowing
program for the fiscal year starting April when he unveils the
federal budget on March 16, according to FirstRand Ltd., a unit
of  South Africa ’s second-largest banking group. The government
increased its borrowing plan by 23 percent in the current fiscal
year as revenue dropped because of slowing economic growth.  ‘Likely to Persist’  “The market seems to be pricing in repo-rate reductions
starting as early as April,” Krishnamurthy Harihar, a Mumbai-
based treasurer at FirstRand, said in an interview on March 9.
“However, with the likelihood of a large and front-loaded
government borrowing program next fiscal year, liquidity
tightness is likely to persist and yields are unlikely to fall
much.”  The 10-year yield could stay at about 8.25 percent “for
the coming months,” he predicted.  The cost of protecting the debt of  State Bank of India (SBIN) 
against default has slid this year. Credit-default swaps on the
lender, which some investors consider a proxy for the sovereign,
have fallen to 319 basis points from 395 basis points at the end
of last year, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated
markets. The swaps pay face value should a company fail to
adhere to its agreements.  The  difference  between India’s 10-year bonds and similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries has narrowed to 626 basis points from a
record 697 basis points touched in November.  “Government bonds are going to be a good investment
proposition,” Indian Overseas Bank’s Narendra said in a
telephone interview. “Yields have priced in most of the risks
and they are above where they should be. I expect a slide.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  