-- Sudanese Authorities Seized Edition of Communist Party Newspaper
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-03-13T10:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/sudanese-authorities-seized-edition-of-communist-party-newspaper.html
State security agents seized
today’s edition of the Sudanese Communist Party’s al-Midan
newspaper in the latest move against media criticial of the
government, an assistant to the editor-in-chief said.  “We were given no explanation for the raid, but the
assault is part of an intensive crackdown on media in Sudan,”
Adel Ibrahim said by phone from Khartoum, the capital. Al-Midan
was suspended from June to August 2010 for its election coverage
and reports of alleged corruption in President Umar al-Bashir’s
ruling  National Congress Party , he said.  Al-Obaid Murawih, the secretary-general of Press and
Publications Council and spokesman for the Foreign Ministry,
didn’t answer phone calls seeking comment.  Security agents have closed down the Islamist newspapers
Alwan and al-Rai al-Shaab this year, Nabil Adib, a human-rights
lawyer, said today. The authorities seized the Feb. 20 edition
of al-Tayar newspaper for publishing an article by columnist
Mohamed Zein el-Abbeddin that criticized al-Bashir, the security
forces and companies owned by the ruling party.  El-Abbeddin was arrested on the same day, and the paper was
suspended from Feb. 22 to March 4, when the columnist was
released.  Sudan’s 2009 press law gives security agents the right to
decide “whether a certain topic represents a threat to public
security and order,” Murawih said Oct. 26. The Press and
Publications Council has the power to shut down newspapers for
three days without a court order.  Al-Bashir, in a March 11 interview with the Qatari
newspaper al-Rai, said the Sudanese press is free to criticize
the government.  “Freedoms are guaranteed for the people in  Sudan , our
regime doesn’t suppress freedoms,” he said. “People have the
freedom to speak out, criticize and even slam the government.
There’s no such repression in Sudan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  