-- Surprise Daddies, Grim Diseases Lurke in Human Genome
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/surprise-daddies-diseases-lurk-in-genomes-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
Over the last ten years, the price
of mapping the human genome has gone from $1 billion to less
than $1,000 and will surely drop more.  Yet I have no wish to know what lurks inside the coils of
my DNA, and neither does Robert Klitzman, a medical doctor who
is professor of clinical psychiatry and the director of the
Masters of Bioethics Program at  Columbia University . He has not
pondered his genome either.  Others may have little choice. They are ill already or at
risk. Information will be a burden, or maybe not.  Klitzman talked to several dozen people confronting breast
cancer, Huntington’s and alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (or
“Alpha”), which affects liver and lungs.  Confusion, anger and regret infuse their stories as they
unfold in Klitzman’s involving new book: “Am I My Genes?
Confronting Fate and Family Secrets in an Age of Genetic
Testing.”  We spoke at the New York world headquarters of Bloomberg
News.  Hoelterhoff: Just getting tested so often involves great
courage. What’s the worst you can discover?  Klitzman: That you have a mutation for Huntington’s. You
will lose your mind and control of your body. And you will die.  Also, if parents and their offspring are tested, we will
learn that a lot of people are not the children of the fathers
they thought they were. Probably three to four percent.  Hoelterhoff: That’s a lot of stressful conversations!  Klitzman: Thousands, if you realize that increasing numbers
of people are going to be tested in the coming years.  Hoelterhoff: Why is Huntington’s untreatable?  In the Brain  Klitzman: It’s in the brain, at the level of cells in the
brain. We can’t cut it out.  It is hard to impinge on the brain. There are more synapses
in the brain than there are cell phones in the world. Imagine
you want to alter a billion conversations all over the world.  Hoelterhoff: Not everyone with  breast cancer  has the
mutation. How does that happen?  Klitzman: Only 5 to 10 percent of breast cancer is the
genetic kind, as far as we know.  Hoelterhoff: So not every disease has a genetic marker, a
mutation that changes everything?  Klitzman: Right. For many diseases, like depression or
diabetes, it’s a combination of genes, behavior and the
environment.  And some diseases may be the result of several mutations.
We used to look for one gene -- now we’re beginning to look at
all of our DNA and will be learning a lot more.  Hoelterhoff: What does the human genome look like?  Double Spiral  Klitzman: It consists of double spiral chains that contain
four molecules that line up in different combinations to form
three billion pairs.  So if this wall behind me were filled with 1,000 books,
that would be about three billion letters. In that information
are the instructions that make a human being.  There are about 1,000 typos in everyone’s genomes that
basically don’t matter. For instance, we would still read
“Amrica” as “America.” But “Car and Peace” completely
changes the meaning and creates a functional problem.  Dr. Frankenstein  Hoelterhoff: How close are we genetically to, say, chimps?  Klitzman: We share 98 percent with chimps, 90 percent with
cats, 69 percent with rats and 60 percent with chickens.  Hoelterhoff: How did knowledge of their genetics affect the
people you interviewed?  Klitzman: They had to make very difficult decisions -- whom
to tell, and whether to have children, abort fetuses, screen
embryos or adopt.  We can now screen embryos for hundreds of diseases. Some
people with Huntington’s and breast cancer now decide to test
embryos to make sure that these mutations are not passed to the
next generation.  But that raises concerns, too. In the future, wealthy
people will be able to afford eliminating various mutations from
their descendants, while poor people won’t be able to do so.
Many diseases may thus come to affect the poor, but not the
rich.  Designer Babies  Hoelterhoff: And it’s not just a matter of disease?  Klitzman: No. People are also choosing the gender of their
children, and they will be able to “design babies” in other
ways as well.  As soon as scientists identify markers associated with
intelligence, blond hair, blue eyes or perfect pitch, parents
will no doubt test embryos for these as well.  We are entering a Brave New World.  Hoelterhoff: Genetics inevitably brings to mind Drs.
Mengele and Frankenstein. So could a mad scientist on an island
with endless resources clone himself?  Klitzman: At some point soon, people probably could clone
human beings. It will be feasible, though the U.S. and other
governments have prohibited it.  Still, a mad scientist on an island or in a rogue country
could potentially make multiple copies of himself and rent wombs
in  India  for $3,000 apiece. He could make a little army.  Hoelterhoff: While some of the people in your book think
getting tested will help them confront, say, Alpha at a time
that might ameliorate the disease, others don’t want to know
they just might be doomed.  Percolating through your book is the question -- and
actually the fear -- of wider testing and storing DNA in bio
banks because of the implications for insurance and privacy.  ‘The Fly’  Klitzman: Suppose someone leaves DNA at a crime. Could  law
enforcement  and the courts have access to the banks? Could you
still plead the fifth, for instance?  The government could say:
“Tough, we have your DNA and are subpoenaing it.”  Hoelterhoff: Why didn’t you have your genome mapped?  Klitzman: I guess I like my life the way it is. I don’t
want to complicate it.  And for a healthy person, I don’t think we are at a point
where the medical information is actionable. I know there is
 heart disease  in my family, so I watch my cholesterol.  Hoelterhoff: In one of my favorite films, Jeff Goldblum
gets horribly mixed up with a house fly.  What are the chances of combo creatures? I’ve always
yearned for a pet centaur.  Klitzman: We have made sheep that have partly human hearts.
We’ve made pigs that produce human blood, and glow-in-the-dark
fish that detect toxins in the water.  But to combine major body parts of species genetically --
to add wings to people -- would be very complicated now.  “Am I My Genes” is published by  Oxford University Press ,
and is available in the U.S. and the U.K. To order this book in
 North America , click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net . 