-- Swaps Users Face Serious Collateral Challenge, Executives Say
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-03-13T22:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/swaps-users-face-serious-collateral-challenge-executives-say.html
Derivatives users will face
significant challenges to meet new collateral requirements as
the trades are forced into clearinghouses, according to industry
executives.  Investors have pledged about $200 billion to back futures
trades around the world, Bill de Leon, a managing director at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said today on a panel
discussion at the Futures Industry Association annual conference
in  Boca Raton ,  Florida . That amount could be 10 times as large
for the majority of trades in the $708 trillion over-the-counter
 derivatives market , he said.  “This is going to be one of the biggest challenges going
forward,” said Jeffrey Jennings, the global head of listed
derivatives at Credit Suisse AG. Exchanges such as  CME Group
Inc. (CME)  are expanding the collateral they accept to allow corporate
bonds to be pledged and are offering to reduce margin across
assets like futures and interest-rate swaps. “That’s not going
to be enough,” he said.  Banks,  hedge funds  and asset managers active in the OTC
market are adapting to changes mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act
passed by Congress in 2010, including a requirement to process
most swaps with a clearinghouse to cut counterparty risk.
Clearinghouses require margin to open and maintain a position.
In the private swaps market, customers such as pensions or
insurance companies often didn’t have to give margin to the bank
they did the trade with.  Unacceptable Margin  Other plans by brokerages to offer to transform for their
customers unacceptable margin into cash or U.S. Treasuries that
are accepted by clearinghouses won’t solve the problem, and may
add to risk during volatile times, said David Olsen, global head
of OTC clearing for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “In my opinion, collateral transformation is really just a
marketing term for repo,” he said. The collateral obtained from
selling securities to garner cash or Treasuries in the
repurchase market don’t fit many type of derivative users, such
as pensions, that may have 30-year swaps they need to maintain,
he said.  The important issue is not the value of the collateral, he
said, but the ability to quickly turn it into cash in the event
of a market disruption such as the 2008 failure of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., he said.  De Leon agreed that collateral transformation is risky.
“We would rather post collateral with a haircut that’s
segregated,” he said.  LCH.Clearnet Ltd., owner of the world’s largest interest-
rate swap clearinghouse, has faced challenges in how collateral
value can change over time, said Chief Executive Officer Ian Axe. A year ago the company would take European sovereign debt
with no qualms, he said.  “We’re a lot more picky now,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  