-- Swiss Stocks Advance to Nine-Month High; Banks Lead Gains
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-03-13T17:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/swiss-stocks-rise-for-a-fifth-day-as-greece-gets-bailout.html
Swiss stocks  rose to a nine-month
high after the euro area’s finance ministers approved a second
bailout for Greece and German investor confidence climbed more
than forecast.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest
lenders, jumped more than 2.5 percent as bank shares rallied.
 ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest maker of power-transmission gear,
gained 1.7 percent after it won an order from  Rio Tinto  Group.
 Galenica AG (GALN)  advanced after full-year net income beat estimates.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of Switzerland’s biggest
and most actively traded companies, added 1.1 percent to
6,260.02 at the close in Zurich, the highest since June 9. The
gauge has gained  5.5 percent this year  after the  European
Central Bank  disbursed loans to the region’s banks and U.S.
economic reports beat estimates. The broader Swiss Performance
Index also climbed 1.1 percent today.  “Today the market focuses on the green light for  Greece ’s
aid package,” said John Plassard, director at Louis Capital
Markets SA in Geneva. “For the short term, it means the Greek
problem is behind us and that investors can now focus on the
real economy.”  The euro area’s finance ministers cleared a second rescue
of Greece, enabling the first payment from the 130 billion-euro
package ($170 billion) to be made later this month. Officials
will give their formal approval on March 14, a day before the
board of the  International Monetary Fund  votes on whether to
contribute.  Greek Aid  The agreement concludes months of negotiations between
Greece, the IMF and euro-area authorities over the successor to
the 2010 bailout that failed to halt the debt crisis. Greece had
to agree to deep budget cuts and complete the world’s largest-
ever sovereign-debt restructuring to obtain the aid.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
released a report that showed  German investor confidence  rose
more than forecast in March. Its index of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict economic developments six
months in advance, climbed to 22.3 from 5.4 in February.
 Economists had forecast  a gain to 10 in a Bloomberg survey.  A U.S. Commerce Department report showed that  retail sales
in the world’s largest economy  rose in February by the most in
five months. That matched the  median forecast  of 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘Robust Development’  “The numbers indicate a robust development of private
consumption and deliver a friendly indication for U.S. growth in
the first quarter of 2012,” Ulrich Wortberg, an analyst at
Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in Frankfurt, wrote in e-
mailed comments.  The U.S. Federal Reserve will announce its interest-rate
decision at 2:15 p.m. in  Washington . Policy makers will probably
refrain from further action to boost economic growth as they
assess recent data, according to a March 9-12 poll.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 5 percent less than the average over the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse and UBS advanced 4.3 percent to 25.05 Swiss
francs and 2.8 percent to 12.77 francs, respectively.  Julius
Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  added 2.2 percent to 36.57 francs. Bank shares
posted the largest increase of the 19 industry groups in the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , advancing 3.3 percent.  ABB climbed 1.7 percent to 18.95 francs after the company
said it won an order from Rio Tinto for $100 million to increase
the mining company’s production.  Galenica, a Swiss drug wholesaler, increased 2 percent to
574 francs, a two-month high. The company reported  full-year
profit  of 255.6 million francs ($277 million), beating the
average analyst estimate for net income of 211.6 million francs.
Galenica also said it plans a  dividend  of 9 francs.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement maker,
climbed 3.7 percent to 62.50 francs, following a gauge of
European construction companies higher. That’s the stock’s
highest price since July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  