-- Syria Lays Mines as Thousands Flee Spreading Assad Attack
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-03-13T17:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/syria-mines-borders-with-turkey-lebanon-as-thousands-flee-assad-s-forces.html
Syrian forces are sowing minefields
along the border with  Turkey  and Lebanon even as thousands of
refugees flee a widening crackdown by President Bashar al- Assad’s military.  The landmines are already causing civilian casualties,
 Human Rights Watch  said today in a  statement  on its website. The
New York-based group showed pictures of anti-personnel mines
with Cyrillic lettering which it said were PMN-2 devices of
Russian or Soviet origin. They had been removed by volunteer
deminers, it said.  “The Syrian army should cease its use of antipersonnel
landmines and recognize that planting this internationally
banned weapon will hurt Syrians for years to come,” Human
Rights Watch said in the  report . Steve Goose, director of the
arms division at the New York-based organization said, “Any use
of antipersonnel landmines is unconscionable.”  A total of 159 countries have signed the anti-personnel
landmine convention since 1997, according to the  United Nations .
Syria and Russia are not among them. About 32,000 Syrians have
fled to Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, according to the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees, following 12 months of civil unrest
and fighting.  In one case, a Syrian deminer said that landmines had been
laid near the village of Hasanieih, close to the Turkish
frontier. The devices were planted between fruit trees, three
meters from the border in two parallel lines, each about 500
meters (550 yards) long, the deminer told Human Rights Watch.  Orchards Mined  “Local villagers told him that the army had informed
farmers in the area that they need army permission to enter the
orchards, but had not told them that the area was mined,” the
report said.  U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland today
said that the Syrian authorities were fencing “their own people
in” and described such action as “horrific.”  Assad’s military killed at least 114 people yesterday as
they targeted opposition areas in the north including Idlib,
where security forces killed about 40 people at a mosque, Al
Arabiya television reported, citing activists. The Local
Coordination Committees in  Syria  said a further 22 died today.  After retaking Homs from opposition forces after a
monthlong siege on March 2, Assad’s forces have surrounded
Damascus suburbs and moved north, according to daily reports
from the Local Coordination Committees website. Idlib is under
“intensive” shelling by the regime’s army, according to the
latest report yesterday. A pro-government newspaper today
reported that the town had fallen to Assad’s forces, according
to the  Associated Press .  ‘Crimes Against Humanity’  Violence against Syrian civilians “could be described as
crimes against humanity” and should be the subject of an
international investigation, said Nabil el-Arabi, secretary
general of the Arab League, as reported by  Egypt ’s state-run
news agency.  Assad today set May 7 as the date for parliamentary
elections, according to a statement posted on the Syrian
People’s Assembly website. The State Department’s Nuland
described the development as “ridiculous” and referred to the
country’s parliament as an institutional “rubber stamp.”  Pressure on the UN to act is mounting following a visit by
special envoy  Kofi Annan  to Damascus, where he met with Assad to
negotiate an end to the conflict and sought access for
humanitarian aid. The Syrian president will respond today to the
UN proposals, Annan told reporters in Ankara.  ‘Friends of Syria’  “The Syrian people have certain demands and those demands
deserve to be met,” the state-run Anatolia news agency reported
Annan as saying in Ankara today.  Turkey is convening the second “Friends of Syria” meeting
on April 2, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said today, as
an international alliance seeks alternatives to end the violence
following two Russian and Chinese vetoes of UN measures to halt
attacks. At least 7,500 people have died since last March.  “With our international partners, we’ll continue to
tighten the noose around Bashar al-Assad and his cohorts, and
we’ll work with the opposition and the United Nations- Arab
League  envoy Kofi Annan to plan for the transition that will
follow Assad’s departure from power,” U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Britain’s Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in a joint
article published in the Washington Post today.  UN Impasse  Turkey will support all international measures to stop
Assad’s yearlong crackdown, Erdogan told Annan. The envoy said
the Syrian National Council had agreed with the UN to resolve
the crisis after meeting Burhan Ghalioun, the leader of the
leading opposition alliance.  In  New York , the impasse on Syria among the  Security
Council ’s veto-wielding members continued. U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  called Assad’s military attacks while
meeting Annan “cynical” and the administration continued to
press for the Syrian president’s departure.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  criticized the
“risky recipes of geopolitical engineering” put forward at the
UN.  Russia  today said it would continue arms sales to Syria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  