-- Rebekah Brooks, Husband Said to Be Arrested in U.K. Probe
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n ,   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-03-13T17:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/u-k-police-arrest-six-as-news-corp-phone-hacking-probe-turns-to-cover-up.html
Rebekah Brooks, the former chief
executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. publishing unit, was
arrested a second time by London police as the year old phone-
hacking probe turned to a possible cover up, according to a
person familiar with the situation.  The Metropolitan Police said they arrested five men and a
43-year-old woman in a probe to investigate a potential
conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, without identifying
the suspects. Brooks’s husband Charlie, a former racehorse
trainer, was also arrested, the person said, declining to be
identified because the matter is confidential. Police also
detained Mark Hanna, who headed security for the News
International unit, according to a spokeswoman for the company.  The probe into the phone-hacking scandal at  Rupert Murdoch ’s News of the World tabloid has continued to expand to
add an investigation into bribes to public officials and police.
More than 20 people have been arrested as part Operation
Weeting, the phone-hacking investigation, and at least 10 have
been questioned since the beginning of the year in the bribery
probe. The police service said for the first time that it
consulted with prosecutors before making today’s arrests.  It appears today’s arrests “are about either destroying
evidence or deliberately misleading a court or investigation,”
 Dan Morrison , a lawyer at Grosvenor Law LLP who represents
people in criminal and regulatory investigations, said in a
phone interview today. Consulting with the  Crown Prosecution
Service  “suggests there is a high level of sensitivity attached
to this.”  Confiscated Laptop  Police can hold a suspect without filing charges for as
many as 36 hours. Perverting the course of justice carries a
maximum sentence of  life imprisonment , according to the Crown
Prosecution Service’s website.  “The police have obviously made a big splash over these
arrests,” said Niri Shan, the head of the media practice for
London law firm Taylor Wessing LLP. “Whilst I think that it
does add to the woes of News International, in the big scheme of
things, it’s one of those things that I think they’ll take in
their stride.”  The fact that Rebekah Brooks no longer works for News
International should insulate the parent company from serious
damage, he said.  Brooks’s Assistant  The CPS didn’t return a call and the MPS declined to
comment beyond the statement.  David Wilson , a spokesman for the
43-year-old Brooks, declined to immediately comment and her
attorney, Stephen Parkinson, didn’t immediately return a call.  Brooks’s former assistant at News International, Cheryl
Carter, was arrested in January for attempting to pervert the
course of justice, the  BBC  said. A woman at Carter’s address
declined to comment at the time.  In July, police confiscated a laptop and papers belonging
to Charlie Brooks, found in the trash near the couple’s home,
the  Guardian newspaper  said.  The phone-hacking scandal prompted News Corp. to close the
News of the World in July and drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.2
billion) bid for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc. (BSY)   Also arrested today in the early morning raids between 5
a.m. and 7 a.m. London time were a 46-year-old man in West
London, a 38-year-old man in Hertfordshire and a 48-year-old man
at an office address in East London. All were arrested as part
of Operation Weeting and a number of addresses are being
searched, the police said.  Riding With Cameron  The hacking scandal has led to an investigation into media
ethics in the U.K. and the press’s relationship with public
officials. Police were criticized last month after revealing
that Brooks was loaned a police horse in 2008 as part of a
program for retired mounts. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
has admitted to riding the horse while on an outing with
Brooks’s husband.  The Brooks’s arrests are “an operational matter for the
police,” Vickie Sheriff, a spokeswoman for Cameron told
reporters today.  Andy Coulson , Cameron’s former press chief, was
arrested last year by police investigating phone hacking over
his tenure as editor of the News of the World.  The inquiry, commissioned by Cameron after the tabloid was
closed in July, has also questioned police officers about
expensive dinners and nights out in pubs with reporters.  ‘Destroyers of Evidence’  News International employees have been admonished for
obstructing investigations. Judge Geoffrey Vos said the company
should be treated as “deliberate destroyers of evidence” at a
January hearing where News Corp. settled three dozen cases
involving phone-hacking victims.  In January 2011, eight days after police asked a News
International tabloid to turn over any new evidence related to
voice-mail hacking, the company deleted a potentially
incriminating e-mail from News International Chairman  James Murdoch ’s mailbox. James Murdoch, currently deputy chief
operating officer of News Corp., gave up his title as executive
chairman of News International last month.  According to Linklaters LLP, the London law firm
coordinating the company’s inquiry into alleged criminal
behavior at News International, the deletion of James Murdoch’s
e-mail files was part of a stabilization and modernization
program started by the company’s information technology
department in January of last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  