-- U.K.-Banks Tax Dispute, Brazil Stock Tax, CBOE: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-13T12:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/u-k-banks-tax-dispute-brazil-stock-tax-cboe-exit-compliance.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said
they don’t owe taxes over a 2003 compensation plan U.K.
authorities argue was designed to avoid millions of pounds in
taxes and national insurance contributions on employee bonuses.  The two banks appealed separate rulings that found them
liable for income and payroll taxes for bonuses paid to bankers
in shares through an offshore trust, in a four-year-old dispute
with U.K. revenue officials. UBS owes 49.6 million pounds ($77.5
million) on total bonus payments of 92 million pounds into the
plan, according to documents disclosed yesterday after Bloomberg
petitioned the court for their release.  The case “concerns a disagreement over the interpretation
of highly technical tax legislation and dates back to a one-off
compensation plan for 2003,” UBS spokesman  Richard Morton  said
in an e-mailed statement.  The U.K. government is taking “decisive and swift action”
to tackle  tax avoidance , Chancellor of the Exchequer George
Osborne told Parliament this month after authorities closed two
tax loopholes that had been used by  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  Legislators
are seeking a tougher approach to companies that hire lawyers
and accountants to cut tax bills.  UBS and Deutsche Bank said in the court documents that they
didn’t have to pay income tax on the shares because they were
“restricted securities” that weren’t eligible for
contributions. Both plans involved setting up offshore vehicles
that issued securities to employees. The vehicles, which are no
longer used, invested in the shares of UBS and Deutsche Bank.  “This was a one-off arrangement from eight years ago and
hasn’t been repeated,” said Adrian Cox, spokesman for
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank. “We believe it met all the
requirements at the times.”  HMRC lawyer Nikky Fadero said the department wouldn’t
comment until the judges released a decision. “The predominant
reason for the ESIP scheme was tax avoidance,” HMRC said in its
court filing.  A week-long trial at the Upper Tribunal in  London  ended on
Feb. 28. There is no schedule for a ruling.  Compliance Policy  Brazil Unlikely to Tax Stock Investment, BM&FBovespa CEO Says  Brazil is unlikely to reinstate the financial transactions
tax on foreigners’ stock purchases as part of its effort to curb
the real’s rally, said  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  Chief Executive Officer
Edemir Pinto.  BM&FBovespa SA is the operator of Latin America’s biggest
securities exchange.  The government extended a 6 percent tax, known as IOF, on
foreign loans and bonds issued abroad by local companies to
include lending with a duration as long as five years, according
to a decree published yesterday in the official gazette. It was
the third measure taken this month to weaken the real. The 6
percent tax, which was originally applied to foreign borrowing
of as long as two years, had already been extended on March 1 to
loans and bonds with a duration of three years. The central bank
the same day extended the tax to some loans granted to
exporters.  In December, the government cut to zero the IOF tax on
foreigners’ stock purchases as part of steps to boost economic
growth, two years after imposing the 2 percent levy on equity
and debt purchases in October 2009 to keep inflows from pushing
up the currency.  Brazil ’s real is the worst performer among the 16 main
currencies tracked by Bloomberg since March 1, when the
government started escalating efforts to contain capital inflows
which President Dilma Rousseff dubbed a “monetary tsunami.”
The real has fallen 5.5 percent this month, trimming its gain
this year to 2.6 percent.  The government is unlikely to change taxation on
derivatives, Pinto said.  Schaeuble Says EU Should Strive for 27-Nation Transactions Tax  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the
European Union should continue to strive for agreement on a
financial-transactions tax among all 27 EU countries.  European finance ministers will debate the issue at a
meeting today without a need for immediate conclusions,
Schaeuble told reporters in Brussels yesterday before an evening
gathering of euro-area ministers.  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, has
proposed a wide-ranging tax on trading of stocks, bonds,
derivatives and other financial contracts. The commission says
the tax could raise 57 billion euros ($75 billion) annually if
implemented throughout the region, while also discouraging
transactions like high-frequency trading that it considers more
risky to the financial system.  The Brussels-based commission and  Denmark , current holder
of the EU’s rotating presidency, have urged more technical work
in search of a widely accepted compromise.  Danish Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  said yesterday
in a  statement  that she does not expect final conclusions to be
drawn at this meeting. The group will return to the matter at a
ministerial session toward the end of Denmark’s presidency,
which concludes on June 30, she said.  France has been pressing for speedier work with a smaller
group of nations if no broader coalition emerges.  Energy Loan-Guarantee Data Needs to Be Consolidated, Report Says  The U.S. Energy Department’s scattered data on loan-
guarantee applications makes oversight of the program difficult,
the Government Accountability Office said.  “Without consolidated data on applicants,” the program’s
managers “do not have readily accessible information that would
facilitate more efficient program management,” the government
watchdog  said  yesterday in a  report .  Mortgages, Exchange-Traded Products, Among FSA Retail Priorities  The U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority  said unfair
mortgage contracts and funds traded on exchanges are among the
products posing the biggest risk for retail financial consumers.  The FSA said it found “some evidence of poor practice in
U.K.-authorized firms” that sell exchange-traded products, the
regulator said in a report on the retail finance industry
published today. The supervisor also said that some lenders sold
mortgages that “resulted in detriment for consumers.”  The FSA will be disbanded next year as part of the
government’s plans to hand responsibility for banking
supervision to the Bank of England. Oversight of trading and
consumer rules will be taken over by the Financial Conduct
Authority.  Consumer confidence in retail financial products “remains
low,” because of declining real income and low  interest rates ,
the FSA said.  The regulator also said that “early signals suggest that
greater repayment difficulties in the mortgage markets could
materialize again in 2012.”  Compliance Action  Obama Monitors for Gasoline, Diesel Fraud in 360 U.S. Cities  The Obama administration is monitoring gasoline and diesel
fuel prices in 360 U.S. cities to guard against fraud or price
manipulation, according to a White House report released
yesterday.  The report, which also says the administration has made
progress weaning the U.S. from foreign oil  imports , outlined the
extent of price monitoring that President Barack Obama
previously announced. At a March 6 news conference, Obama said
he asked Attorney General Eric Holder to reconstitute a special
task force to ensure the government is watching for “potential
speculation in the oil markets.”  Obama was expected to speak about the report in interviews
at the White House yesterday with television stations from  Los
Angeles , Denver, Austin, Des Moines, Orlando, Cincinnati, Las
Vegas and Pittsburgh, according to a White House schedule.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates
 futures markets , has also cracked down on financial trades that
evaded scrutiny in unregulated or overseas markets.  Rising gasoline prices have become a campaign issue as
higher energy costs have overshadowed positive economic news
indicating the recovery is gaining traction. Republican
presidential candidates criticized Obama March 11 for
environmental and permitting decisions affecting oil drilling
that they say have exacerbated the spike in oil prices, and they
vowed to reverse those decisions if elected.  For more, click here.  AIJ’s Asakawa Declines Request to Speak to Diet Over Losses  AIJ Investment Advisors Co. (0202964D)  President Kazuhiko Asakawa
declined a request to appear before a parliamentary committee
seeking answers over how the suspended fund manager lost as much
as $2 billion of pension money.  “Unfortunately I am unable to take up the offer,” Asakawa
said, according to a faxed statement read by  Banri Kaieda ,
chairman of the lower house financial committee, to reporters in
Tokyo yesterday. Asakawa wrote that he is busy compiling
information requested by the government’s financial watchdog,
Kaieda said.  Asakawa’s reply is his first statement to be made public
since the Financial Services Agency suspended AIJ on Feb. 24 for
a month to find out what happened to the 185.3 billion yen ($2.3
billion) of pension assets managed by his firm.  The FSA’s investigative arm, the Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission, “is still continuing its inspection,”
Asakawa wrote, according to Kaieda. “I am busy as we are
preparing documents to detail the assets under management by the
March 23 deadline,” Kaieda quoted Asakawa as saying.  SEC Said to Plan Action Over Felix, SharesPost  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is preparing
sanctions against Felix Investments LLC over trading of private-
company shares, the first action to emerge from a broad
investigation of transactions involving non-public startups, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Cris Valerio reported on Bloomberg Television’s “Street
Smart.”  Trish Regan  also spoke.  For the video, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Dixon Doll Expects U.S. Startup Bill to Help IPO Market  Dixon Doll , co-founder of venture-capital firm DCM Inc.,
talked about congressional legislation to help startups raise
capital and the South by Southwest Interactive event in Austin,
Texas.  The U.S. House last week voted to approve a package of
measures to roll back U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
rules for newly public companies and closely held firms looking
for investments. Doll spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the  Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Cole-Frieman Sees Non-Public Investments as ‘Wild West’  Karl Cole-Frieman, an attorney at Cole-Frieman & Mallon
LLP, talked about the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
investigations of pools through which investors can purchase
shares of non-public companies.  He talked with  Cory Johnson  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bloomberg West.” Emily Chang also spoke.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  CBOE Compliance Executive Patrick Fay Resigns Amid SEC Probe  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , the options exchange being investigated
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, said senior
compliance executive Patrick Fay has resigned, spokeswoman Gail
Osten said in an e-mailed statement.  Fay had been placed on leave after the SEC began
investigating the options-market operator’s oversight of
traders, the Wall Street Journal reported last week, citing
people familiar with the matter. He will “pursue other
interests,” Osten said yesterday.  CBOE Holdings said in its annual report filed Feb. 28 that
the SEC began investigating whether the company was complying
with its obligations as a self-regulatory organization.  “The SEC is looking at all exchanges very carefully,”
CBOE Chief Executive Officer  William Brodsky  said yesterday in
an interview in Bonita Springs, Florida. He declined to comment
on Fay’s resignation and the details of the investigation. “We
have a very good relationship with the SEC and we work with
them,” he said.  Fay, a senior vice president for member and regulatory
services since 2006, was among 10 “executive officers” listed
on CBOE’s website. He had rejoined the company in 2004 after 19
months at NQLX LLC. Before that, he spent 18 years with CBOE,
according to the website.  CBOE was founded in 1973 as the first U.S. market for
equity derivatives. As self-regulatory organizations, American
exchanges are required to write rules for their markets, monitor
trading and ensure that they and their customers aren’t breaking
securities laws.  “The SEC is investigating CBOE’s compliance with its
obligations as a self-regulatory organization under the federal
securities laws,” CBOE said in the Feb. 28 filing. “The
company is cooperating with the investigation, which is ongoing,
and is conducting its own review of its compliance.”  The SEC’s Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
conducts “routine and special inspections” of self-regulatory
organizations, the Government Accountability Office said in a
November 2007 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 