-- U.K. Posts Smaller-Than-Forecast Trade Gap on Car, Oil Sales
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-13T09:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/u-k-posts-smaller-than-forecast-trade-gap-on-car-oil-sales-1-.html
(Corrects to say exports to non-EU countries, not deficit,
reached record in January in sixth paragraph.)  The U.K. trade deficit widened less
than economists forecast in January as exports to countries
outside the European Union reached record levels, boosted by
shipments of cars and oil.  The goods-trade gap widened to 7.53 billion pounds ($11.8
billion) from a revised 7.18 billion pounds in December, which
was the smallest deficit since December 2009, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in  London . The median of 18
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was for a deficit of 7.9
billion pounds. Imports rose 2.6 percent and exports climbed 2
percent.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  is counting on overseas demand
to rebalance the economy as his budget cuts restrain consumer
spending. While net trade contributed strongly to growth last
year, manufacturers’ prospects are worsening as the global
slowdown deepens and the euro-area debt crisis undermines demand
in the largest market for British goods.  “The picture is not a strong one,”  Philip Shaw , an
economist at Investec Securities in London, said before the data
was released. “Unless we get the key areas of the  euro zone 
moving again, then certainly in the short to medium term that’s
likely put a cap on the U.K.’s export capabilities. That’s
probably what we’re looking at over the course of 2012.”  The pound fell as much as 0.1 percent against the dollar
after the data and was trading at $1.5652 as of 9:39 a.m. in
London, up 0.1 percent on the day.  Oil Shipments  Britain’s trade deficit with non-EU countries widened to
3.68 billion pounds in January. Exports to those nations rose
4.4 percent to 12.9 billion pounds, the highest since records
began in January 1998. Exports were driven by sales of cars to
the U.S., Russia and  China , the statistics office said. The gap
with EU nations widened to 3.85 billion pounds. Oil shipments to
the Netherlands and Germany rose as crude-oil prices climbed.  Overall oil and car exports stood at record levels in
January. A 500 million-pound increase in car shipments was the
biggest monthly gain ever. This was offset by lower exports of
chemicals and consumer goods other than cars, the statistics
office said.  Factory output, which accounts for about 10 percent of U.K.
gross domestic product, is benefiting from the pound’s drop of
about 23 percent on a trade-weighted basis since the start of
2007. Net trade contributed 0.6 percentage point to gross
domestic product in the fourth quarter.  The Bank of England held its bond-purchase target at 325
billion pounds this month after increasing it by 50 billion
pounds in February. Still, policy makers including  Martin Weale 
have signaled that they are concerned about the pace of
consumer-price inflation.  Return to Growth  Surveys this month indicated that the U.K. economy returned
to growth in the first quarter after a 0.2 percent contraction
in the last three months of 2011. Reports from  Markit Economics 
showed manufacturing and services continued to expand in
February and construction growth accelerated.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , the world’s biggest maker of pumps for the
mining industry, said on Feb. 29 that it had a “strong order
book” for 2012 as oil and gas investment projects boosts demand
in some markets in  North America  and the  Middle East .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  