-- U.K. May Revive Long Gilt First Used in South Sea Bubble
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-14T12:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/u-k-may-revive-long-gilt-first-used-in-south-sea-bubble.html
Britain is proposing to revive
“perpetual gilts,” first used in the wake of the 1720 South
Sea Bubble crisis, to allow the government to borrow for as long
as possible at record-low rates, according to two people
familiar with budget discussions.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will use his
March 21 budget to announce a consultation on introducing
government bonds of up to 100 years and reviving debt with no
fixed maturity, a sort of bond first issued in the 19th century
to put off repaying debt resulting from the South Sea Bubble.  The cost of 10-year borrowing for the U.K. fell to a record
low earlier this year as investors sought a haven from the euro-
region debt crisis and the  Bank of England  bought gilts to help
stimulate the economy. Yields on  benchmark gilts  reached 1.92
percent on Jan. 18, the lowest since Bloomberg started tracking
the data in 1989. The securities currently yield 2.27 percent,
compared with an average of 4.22 percent over the past decade.  “A 100-year bond is effectively a perpetual,”  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in London, said in a telephone interview today. “From a
borrower’s standpoint, it’s a very attractive product. There’s
good reason to lock in low funding costs with yields at these
levels.”  The Treasury has already had informal discussions with
bond-market participants about the idea, according to the
people, who declined to be identified because the plans are not
yet public.  Index-Linked Demand  Investors that need to match their liabilities and assets
such as life-insurance companies may be buyers, though the
 National Association of Pension Funds  expressed skepticism about
the plan, saying funds would rather buy more index-linked debt
of between 30 years and 50 years and that it’s unclear if 100-
year gilts would provide a big enough return.  “A 100-year bond would be too long for most pension funds,
and we don’t think that many would buy them,” the chief
executive officer of the London-based NAPF, Joanne Segars, said
in an e-mailed statement. “Most final-salary pension schemes
are now closed to new joiners and are becoming more mature.
Their liabilities are long-term, but not that long-term.”  “Pension funds might demand a yield closer to 5 percent to
6 percent which would give them a worthwhile return,” Wraith
said. The funds “may look at the amount of debt the government
needs to refinance and assume that yields are going to rise
materially.”  ‘Major Restructuring’  Societe Generale SA said late last year that the U.K.
should issue at least 200 billion pounds ($314 billion) of 100-
year gilts.  A 100 year-gilt “paves the way potentially for a major
restructuring of U.K. public-sector debt,”  Marc Ostwald , a
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London, said in an e-
mail. That “would more or less tacitly admit that lowering
budget deficits and indeed overall debt burdens in the western
world will not be achieved by austerity alone, and may indeed
see many countries following  Greece ” in seeking an
international bailout.  The U.K. has 162 billion pounds of securities due 2042 and
beyond, according to Bloomberg data. The last maturity is in
2062. Britain has never sold a 100-year bond and has about 2.7
billion pounds of so-called perpetual gilts, which never mature,
outstanding, according to the  DMO website . The 3.5 percent War
Loan, first issued in 1917, makes up 1.9 billion pounds of this
total.  Early Disaster  The 1720 South Sea Bubble was an early disaster of English
stock speculation, which saw its victims, including
mathematician  Isaac Newton , first become rich before being
ruined. The following year, Chancellor of the Exchequer John
Aislabie was imprisoned in the Tower of London for his part in
the scandal.  Among other sovereigns,  Mexico  sold $1 billion of 100-year
bonds overseas in August, taking advantage of a plunge in
benchmark U.S. borrowing costs.  U.S. railroad operator Norfolk Southern Corp. sold $250
million of 100-year bonds in August 2010 in the first corporate
securities of that maturity since 2005. Demand for longer-
maturity debt enabled the University of  Southern California  to
sell $300 million of 100-year bonds a year later, Bloomberg data
show.  In May last year,  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ,
which counts Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and former
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  as alumni, sold $750
million of taxable 100-year bonds to help finance expansion.  Syndication  A U.K. issue may be sold through a syndicate of banks,
rather than by auction, Wraith said.  “The case for doing a 100-year gilt by syndication is very
clear,” he said. “You need the price discovery process, and
you need the deal managers to find out where the demand is.”  Rachel Reeves, an opposition  Labour Party  lawmaker who
speaks on budget matters, said in an e-mailed statement that
“we will look hard to see if this proposal actually delivers
value for money for the taxpayer.”  Next week’s budget will focus on the benefits to taxpayers
of Britain’s low borrowing costs, according to the people
familiar with the budget preparations. The  Office for Budget
Responsibility  will say next week that a 1 percentage-point
increase in gilt yields would cost the taxpayer a cumulative 20
billion pounds in interest payments by 2017.  Budget Talks  On March 20, the Treasury will publish final details of
how its credit-easing program will work. Officials are
finalizing contracts with a broad range of institutions. The
program aims to provide finance for small- and medium-sized
companies struggling to obtain bank loans.  The budget is close to being signed off by the “quad” of
senior ministers who conduct negotiations on behalf of the two
parties in the coalition government. They’re Osborne and Prime
Minister  David Cameron  for the Conservatives and Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg  and Chief Secretary to the Treasury  Danny Alexander  for the Liberal Democrats, the junior partner.  The quad met March 12 and may meet again on March 16, when
Cameron and Osborne have returned from the U.S. It will meet for
the final discussion of the budget next week.  All items with significant costs attached must be submitted
to the OBR by the end of March 16. The OBR is a nonpartisan body
of economists set up after the 2010 general election to oversee
forecasting for the Treasury and monitor the public finances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Washington at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  