-- U.K. Homebuilders Rise on Government Buyer Aid: London Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-03-13T16:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/u-k-homebuilders-rise-on-government-buyer-aid-london-mover.html
Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV)  and  Taylor
Wimpey (TW/)  Plc led gains by U.K. homebuilders after the government
said it will help buyers with small cash deposits buy new homes.  Barratt, the country’s largest homebuilder by volume, rose
5.3 percent, while Taylor Wimpey, the U.K. No. 2, gained 4.3
percent. Persimmon Plc, the largest U.K. homebuilder by market
value, advanced 1.5 percent.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday that the
government will underwrite part of the loans to buyers of new
properties in order to spur housing construction. Customers with
small cash deposits will be able to get financing for as much as
95 percent of a home’s value, as long as the price is 500,000
pounds ($780,000) or less.  Cameron’s office estimated the program will help as many as
100,000 buyers and support an estimated 50,000 jobs. “It’s no
good hoping people will climb the property ladder if the bottom
rung is missing,” the prime minister said. “Affordable
properties and available mortgages are vital.”  Credit Suisse raised earnings forecasts for U.K.
homebuilders by 6 percent for 2012 and 14 percent for 2013, and
maintained “outperform” recommendations on York, England-based
 Persimmon (PSN) , Taylor Wimpey and  Bellway Plc. (BWY)  That means analysts
expect the stock’s return to exceed the average among peers.  “Only a small fraction” of the 100,000 sales estimated by
Cameron’s office are necessary to boost homebuilder earnings,
Harry Goad and Arnaud Lehmann, analysts at Credit Suisse, said
in a note today.  Rosy Forecast  The prime minister’s forecast is unrealistic because banks
and the housing industry won’t have the “willingness and
logistical ability to participate on such a material scale,”
the analysts said.  Credit Suisse raised share-price predictions for publicly
traded U.K. homebuilders, saying Persimmon may rise 17 percent
from yesterday’s close of 670 pence. Deutsche Bank also raised
most price targets for the companies.  “Strong news flow at both corporate and industry levels
will kick-start a further bout of earnings upgrades, once again
driving share price momentum,” Deutsche Bank’s Glynis Johnson
said.  Lenders including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Nationwide Building Society 
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s NatWest Home Loans Ltd.
will offer mortgages under the government proposals, the  Council
of Mortgage Lenders  said in a statement.  Barratt Registrations  About 20,000 people in  England  have registered with Barratt
to buy their homes using state-backed mortgages, the company
said in a statement.  A house-price index rose to a 19-month high in February as
first-time buyers moved to beat the expiration of a property-tax
exemption, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said
today.  The figures partly reflect buyers rushing to take advantage
of a stamp-duty exemption for first-time buyers purchasing a
home for less than 250,000 pounds, before the provision ends
March 24. While that’s boosting sales, an improving economic
outlook is bolstering longer-term price expectations, RICS said.  “A renewed sense of optimism may be slowly returning to
the  property market ,” the surveyors group said.  London 
“continues to stand out as being particularly buoyant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  