-- U.S. to File WTO Complaint Over China Rare-Earth Export Caps
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-03-13T08:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/u-s-will-ask-for-wto-s-help-to-fight-chinese-curbs-on-rare-earth-exports.html
The U.S. will file a complaint at
the World Trade Organization today over Chinese limits on
exports of rare earths used in high-tech products, deepening a
trade dispute between the world’s two largest economies.  President  Barack Obama  will personally announce the action
to join Japan and the European Union in requesting consultations
with  China  at the Geneva-based trade arbiter over rare-earths
shipments, an administration official said yesterday in
Washington, speaking on condition of anonymity ahead of the
White House announcement.  The move adds to pressure the U.S. is piling on China in an
election year, with Obama calling for efforts to help balance
the trade deficit it has with the Asian nation and allow the
Chinese currency to appreciate. China produces at least 90
percent of the world’s rare earths, used in  Boeing Co. (BA) 
helicopter blades and Toyota Motor Corp. hybrid cars, and has
curbed output and exports since 2009 to conserve mining
resources and protect the environment.  “As China is a WTO member, it’s natural to find a
resolution for any trade issue within the WTO,” said Tetsuo
Yuhara, research director for natural resources, energy and
environment at The Canon Institute for Global Studies in  Tokyo .
Still, “we need to think of China’s effort to protect the
environment that has been deteriorated as well as to control
illegal mining and smuggling.”  ‘Unfair Advantage’  The U.S. will argue that China’s curtailment of the exports
has given Chinese companies an unfair advantage by increasing
production costs for American firms that use the materials, the
administration official said.  China’s policy regarding rare earths comply with WTO rules,
and allegations that it monopolizes the trade are
“groundless,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin
said at a briefing today. The fact that China has about a third
of the world’s rare-earth resources and produces about 90
percent of supply isn’t sustainable given the environmental
damage that results from mining the metals, Liu said.  “Despite such huge environmental pressure China has been
taking measures to maintain rare earth exports,” Liu said.
“China will continue to supply rare earths to the international
market.”  Japan Decides  Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said the
government is considering bringing China to the WTO. Fujimura,
speaking to reporters today in Tokyo, said no decision has yet
been made. An EU official confirmed the bloc will be part of the
joint complaint.  While the rarest of the 17 chemically similar metallic
elements are more common in the earth’s crust than gold and the
most abundant are about as well-represented as copper and zinc,
they only occur in concentrations that are economic to mine in a
few places, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  The U.S.-China trade deficit was $295 billion last year,
$23 billion wider than a year earlier, and the imbalance is a
main source of friction between the two countries.  Obama signed an executive order two weeks ago creating a
panel to investigate unfair trade practices by nations including
China. The administration’s 2013 budget proposal submitted to
Congress last month asked for at least 50 people and $26 million
in funding, and U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  called it the
most significant allocation of resources since his office was
created almost 50 years ago.  Appeal Rejected  The administration has filed five WTO complaints against
China since taking office three years ago, compared with seven
 George W. Bush  filed from 2001, when China joined the Geneva-
based trade arbiter, through the end of his term in early 2009.  WTO judges on Jan. 30 rejected China’s appeal of a ruling
that found restrictions on exports of nine raw materials
including coke, zinc and bauxite break global rules and give the
country’s manufacturers an unfair edge over competitors.  The rare earth complaint comes amid leadership transitions
in both countries. Obama faces a tough battle for re-election in
November, after a New York Times/CBS News poll published March
12 found 40 percent of respondents approved his handling of
foreign affairs, down from 50 percent a month ago.  Vice President  Xi Jinping , expected to become China’s top
leader in a handover of power within the Communist Party that
begins later this year, visited the U.S. in February and called
on the Obama administration to respect China’s interests and
accommodate China’s economic priorities.  ‘Rash’  China’s official Xinhua News Agency ran a commentary today
saying the “rash and unfair” U.S. move risks triggering a
backlash from China and is likely to hurt trade ties. The
commentary, signed by a writer identified as Yu Zhixiao, said
China’s “excessive exploitation” of rare earths in the past
resulted in environmental damage and its decision to implement
quotas was reasonable.  Mitt Romney , leading the race to become the Republican
nominee to challenge Obama in the November election, has faulted
the president for not being tough enough on China.  “The time has come for a president that will stand up to
China,” Romney said at a campaign appearance in Detroit Feb.
24. “I will declare them a currency manipulator and, if
necessary, apply tariffs where I think that their practices --
unfair trade practices -- are killing American jobs.”  The administration’s plans to seek a WTO proceeding against
China were reported earlier by the  Associated Press .  Prices Drop  Before taking other actions, WTO members must speak to each
other to see if they can settle their differences. The
organization’s rules require China to hold talks with the U.S.,
the EU and  Japan  within two months. The U.S. and its partners
may ask for the appointment of a formal WTO panel should the
consultations fail to resolve the issue.  Rare-earth prices soared in 2010 after China imposed a
quota on exports. Prices began to tumble last year after
customers sought lower-cost alternatives. China shipped only 60
percent of its export quota last year, Commerce Minister  Chen
Deming  said March 7.  Demand for rare earths may rebound following a 25 percent
slump in prices this year, benefiting producers of the metals
such as Molycorp Inc., Morgan Stanley said March 5. Molycorp, of
 Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , is the owner of the largest rare-
earth deposit outside of China, located near Mountain Pass,
 California .  China may keep 2012 overseas sales quotas virtually
unchanged at 31,130 tons, according to Bloomberg News
calculations. The Chinese government allocated 10,546 tons of
first-round export quotas to nine companies, including China
Minmetals Corp. and Sinosteel Corp., that met the government’s
environmental protection standards, the Ministry of Commerce
said Dec. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  