-- U.S. Insider Stock Sales Turn Less Favorable: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-03-13T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/u-s-insider-stock-sales-turn-less-favorable-technical-analysis.html
U.S. companies and their executives
are selling stocks at 2.2 times the pace of buying, the most
since December 2009, as an equity rally pushed the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  to an almost four-year high.  About $15.3 billion of shares have been sold by companies
and insiders this month, compared with $7.1 billion of
purchases, according to TrimTabs Investment Research. Stock
offerings reached $2.7 billion a day last week, the highest
level since May, the data show.  Simon Property  Group Inc., the
largest U.S. mall owner, announced its first stock offering in
almost three years while Internet company Yelp Inc. went public.  “Our supply indicators have turned markedly less favorable
in March,”  Charles Biderman , chief executive officer at the
Sausalito, California-based firm, wrote in a report dated
yesterday. “We are not greatly concerned that corporate buying
has been unspectacular,” he said. “What worries us more is
that new offerings and insiders’ selling have soared.”  Companies and their senior officers are taking advantage of
a rally that lifted the  S&P 500  by 25 percent from an October
low to unload equity holdings. Stocks have rallied as corporate
earnings beat analysts’ estimates for a 12th straight quarter
and reports on housing and the labor market boosted optimism
about the world’s largest economy.  U.S. companies and insiders are selling more stock than
they’re buying for the first time since March 2011, according to
TrimTabs data. Simon Property raised $1.75 billion last week
after boosting its stock offering to 8.5 million shares from 7
million. Yelp, which runs a site that lets users review
businesses ranging from diners to dentists, raked in $107.3
million after pricing the shares above a range it sought.  The number of insider sellers averaged about 43 a day in
the 30 days through March 5, the highest level since at least
2004, according to Bloomberg data for S&P 500 companies. The
last two peaks of insider selling, in March 2010 and March 2011,
both came before market tops the next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  