-- Undefeated Baylor Is Top Seed in Women’s College Basketball Tournament
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-13T04:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/undefeated-baylor-is-top-seed-in-women-s-college-basketball-tournament.html
Baylor University is the top-seeded
team in the National Collegiate Athletic Association women’s
basketball tournament after a 34-0 regular season.  The Bears, who are led by national player of the year
candidate Brittney Griner, are the 12th team to take a perfect
record into the  64-school  women’s tournament, where the
University of Connecticut,  Stanford University  and the
 University of Notre Dame  also received No. 1 regional seeds.  “This is what we’ve talked about all year -- these six
basketball games,” Baylor coach Kim Mulkey said in a video on
the school’s website. “Everybody’s healthy today and we’re
heading in with a focus like none other that I’ve seen in a
while. It’s reflected in how we’re playing just now.”  The tournament begins March 17 at on-campus sites, with the
women’s Final Four set for April 1 at the Pepsi Center in Denver.
The national championship game is two days later.  Baylor, Connecticut and Stanford are No. 1 seeds for the
second straight year, while  Notre Dame  reached last year’s title
game as a No. 2 seed before losing to Texas A&M.  Baylor, the Big 12 conference champion, opens tournament
play March 18 against the University of California-Santa Barbara
(17-15) in Bowling Green, Ohio.  The Lady Bears are the top seed in the Des Moines,  Iowa ,
regional, where the  University of Tennessee  is seeded second,
followed by the University of Delaware and Georgia Tech.  If Baylor reaches the Final Four, it could face Stanford
(31-1) in the national semifinals. The Cardinal, the top seed in
the Fresno,  California , regional, have a 28-game winning streak
and made the Final Four the past four years.  Stanford plays 16th-seeded Hampton University (26-4) in its
first-round game on March 17 in Norfolk, Virginia. Duke
University is the No. 2 seed in the regional, followed by No. 3
St. John’s University and No. 4  Purdue University (28155MF) .  Connecticut  (29-4) has also made four straight Final Four
appearances and is the No. 1 seed in the Kingston, Rhode Island,
regional. The Huskies face Prairie View (17-15) in their
tournament opener on March 17 in Bridgeport, Connecticut.  The University of Kentucky, University of Miami and Penn
State are the other top teams in the Kingston regional.  Notre Dame (30-3) heads the Raleigh,  North Carolina ,
regional, the school’s first No. 1 seed since 2001, when the
Irish won their lone national title. Notre Dame opens its
tournament run on March 18 at home against Liberty University
(24-8).  The University of  Maryland  is the No. 2 team behind Notre
Dame in the regional, while defending champion  Texas A&M  is the
third seed and the University of Georgia is fourth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  