-- Hungary’s Inflation Accelerates to EU’s Fastest, Pressuring Central Bank
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-03-13T11:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/hungary-s-inflation-accelerates-to-eu-s-fastest-pressuring-central-bank.html
Hungary ’s  inflation  accelerated to
the fastest pace in the European Union last month, which
Citigroup Inc. said may force the central bank to delay cutting
the 27-nation bloc’s highest interest rates.  Consumer prices rose 5.9 percent from a year earlier, the
most since March 2010, after a 5.5 percent increase in January,
the statistics office in Budapest said today. The median
 estimate  of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News was 5.6
percent. Prices jumped 0.8 percent from January.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank, which targets 3 percent inflation,
on Feb. 28 kept the  benchmark interest rate  unchanged at 7
percent for a second month after policy makers rejected a motion
to cut borrowing costs, citing delays in the government’s talks
for financial assistance from the  International Monetary Fund .  “Given the upside surprise in inflation and the
uncertainties related to IMF loan talks, we do not see any scope
for rate cuts in the first half of the year,” Citigroup’s
Budapest-based economist  Eszter Gargyan  said in an e-mail.  The forint weakened 0.1 percent against the euro to 294.13
at 12:35 p.m. in Budapest. The currency has gained 7.1 percent
against  Europe ’s common currency this year, the fifth-best
performance among about 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Far-Reaching Conclusions’  Policy makers shouldn’t draw “far-reaching conclusions”
from a single piece of data, central bank President Andras Simor
said of the January inflation data after last month’s rate
decision. A “sustained higher inflation path” would justify a
rate increase, central bank Vice President Ferenc Karvalits said
Feb. 17.  The central bank is “unlikely to move to tighten policy on
the back of this, or indeed, even a couple of months of weak CPI
prints,” Tim Ash, head of emerging market research at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc in  London , said in an e-mail today, citing
a jobless rate above 10 percent and “weak European growth
drivers.”  The main driver for monetary policy will be the IMF loan
Hungary requested in November, according to Ash. “Significant
progress” in IMF loan talks may trigger rate cuts, while a
failure to move closer to an aid package may weaken the forint
and lead to a rate increase, Ash said.  IMF Aid Request  The government asked for aid as the forint fell to a record
and the country’s sovereign credit grade was cut to junk last
year. The forint fell to another record in the first week of
this year as investors speculated Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
may fail to obtain a deal after an IMF delegation left Budapest
in December ahead of schedule.  Orban’s pledge on Jan. 5 to come to a “quick” agreement
with the IMF and the European Union led to the forint rallying
8.5 percent against the euro, the second-best performance in the
world after the Polish zloty.  The rally helped convince the majority of the rate-setting
Monetary Council in January to keep the  interest rate  unchanged
after consecutive half-point increases. Talks with the IMF and
the EU have yet to start as Hungary has failed to settle legal
disputes with the European Commission.  “We still think that the Monetary Council may be forced to
implement two more emergency hikes of 50 basis points each as
negotiations with the EU and the IMF over a new financing
agreement stall,” Magdalena Polan, a London-based economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc, said in an e-mail today. “But the
renewed dovishness of some of the MPC members has increased
downside risks to our rate call.”  Fuel, Food  Fuel prices rose 8.7 percent in February from a year ago,
compared to an 8.1 percent increase in household energy prices
and a 6 percent rise in food prices. From January, household
energy prices rose 2.7 percent while food prices increased 1.7
percent, the statistics office said.  The core inflation rate, which strips out volatile energy
and food prices, rose 5.4 percent in February from a year
earlier.  “We expect headline CPI to decline marginally but stay in
the range of 5.5-6.0 percent in the coming months and only
decrease closer to 5 percent” in the fourth quarter, Gargyan
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  