-- U.S. Muni Underwriters Face Rules to Bar Hidden Bond Prices
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-03-13T16:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/muni-bond-underwriters-in-u-s-face-rules-that-would-outlaw-hidden-prices.html
Banks that underwrite U.S. state
and local-government debt would be barred from keeping yields on
some bonds undisclosed immediately after they are issued under
rules proposed by the market’s regulator.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which writes
regulations for the $3.7 trillion municipal- bond market , today
proposed cracking down on the lack of disclosure on the prices
of “not reoffered” bonds, or securities that aren’t designated
for resale to potential investors.  The rule would prevent banks from designating bonds as not
reoffered in written communications unless they also include
prices or yields. That information currently may not be
available until the end of the first trading day, which could
make it difficult to gauge how well the bonds were priced.  “We see this proposal as an important protection for state
and local governments,” the board’s executive director,
Lynnette Kelly, said in a statement. “We want to ensure that
they are able to access complete pricing information about new
bonds when in the market.”  The Alexandria, Virginia-based board has been moving to
expand the safeguards for state and local governments since the
passage of the 2010 Dodd-Frank law, which moved to address the
regulatory failures highlighted by the financial crisis. That
law also charged the MSRB with protecting public agencies, which
lost taxpayer funds when derivative-laden financings pitched by
Wall Street banks unraveled when credit markets seized up.  Price Disclosure  The proposed rules released today are aimed at injecting
greater price disclosure into the market for newly issued
municipal bonds, which are used by states, cities and school
districts for public works. Underwriters are typically hired to
set the interest-rates on the bonds and line up buyers for the
securities.  When an underwriter sells one or more maturities of a new
 bond issue  to a single investor, those securities are sometimes
designated as not-reoffered. That can allow the yields to go
undisclosed during the first day of trading.  Frank Hoadley,  Wisconsin ’s capital-finance director, said
NROs can prove an obstacle to public borrowers trying to discern
whether they got the lowest possible price on their financing.  “It’s a practice that’s gone on for decades that obscures
price information from the public, from investors and from
issuers,” Hoadley said in a telephone interview.  More Frequent  The use of the NRO designation has “become more obvious
and more frequent” in recent years following the global
financial crisis, said Bart Hildreth, who has been the editor-
in-chief of the Municipal Finance Journal since 1989. He said
the proposed rules would improve transparency in a market that’s
“still opaque.”  “It’s another step in the movement towards a more
efficient market,” said Hildreth, who is also a professor of
public management and policy at  Georgia State University  in
Atlanta. “And the municipal bond market needs all the
efficiency it can get.”  The board is soliciting comments on the proposed rule. Once
drafted, the board’s rules are submitted to the Securities and
Exchange Commission for approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  