-- United Continental Sued by U.S. for Underpaying Guardsman
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-03-13T22:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/united-continental-sued-by-u-s-for-underpaying-guardsman-1-.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
was sued by the U.S.  Justice Department  over claims the company
denied a pilot employment benefits during his military service.  The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Denver, was brought
on behalf of TenEyck LaTourrette, a major serving in the
Colorado Air National Guard, according to an e-mailed statement
from the Justice Department.  United, based in  Chicago , undercompensated LaTourrette’s
pension by basing contributions on a minimum monthly schedule
rather than using his actual schedule for the 12 months
preceding his military obligations, according to the statement.
The underfunding is a violation of the 1994 Uniformed Services
Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, according to the Justice
Department.  “We ask the men and women of our armed forces to fight for
our country’s freedom and to be willing to risk their lives for
that cause,”  John Walsh , U.S. Attorney in Denver, said in the
statement. “When they return home they should not have to fight
to be properly compensated. I would like to recognize the
outstanding efforts of the Civil Rights Division for their work
to protect the benefits of this service member.”  United Airlines parent  UAL Corp. (UALAQ)  merged with Continental
Airlines Inc. in October 2010 in an all-stock deal, surpassing
Delta as the world’s biggest carrier.  Mike Trevino, a spokesman for United Continental Holdings
Inc., declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is LaTourrette v. United Airlines Inc. 12-
CV-00635, U.S. District Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 