-- Uralkali Cutting Potash Output 40% on India, China Delays
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-03-13T15:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/uralkali-cuts-first-quarter-potash-output-40-on-india-china.html
OAO Uralkali (URKA) , the world’s biggest
potash producer by output, is cutting first-quarter production
by about 40 percent from a year earlier after  China  and India
postponed purchases and may further reduce a 2012 target.  India resumed potash purchases this month while asking to
extend the first-quarter schedule until August, Oleg Petrov,
 Uralkali (URKA) ’s director of sales and marketing, told reporters today
in Moscow. This means a delay in sales of 600,000 metric tons to
700,000 tons that Uralkali’s Belarusian Potash Co. trader had
planned for the first three months.  Uralkali’s stock dropped 3.6 percent to 225.74 rubles a
share at the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, the lowest in a month
and the biggest drop today on the 30-stock Micex Index.  The Russian company expects to sign a supply accord with
China in April or May, according to Petrov, later than the
estimate he gave in December. “We’ve started negotiations and
indicated that we are seeking a certain price increase,” he
said, declining to elaborate.  BPC, as the trader is known, decreased spot prices for
certain customers in  Brazil  to $520 a ton from $550, following a
move by  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  and  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  this quarter,
Petrov said.  ‘Wonderful’ Prices  Uralkali doesn’t rule out a further cut in its 2012
production target, Petrov said. The forecast for this year was
lowered to 10.5 million from as much as 11.8 million tons to
buoy prices, Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner said
in December.  The 40 percent decline in the first quarter is pro-forma,
according to Uralkali, which completed its acquisition of OAO
Silvinit in June. Output is at 60 percent of capacity now, the
press service said.  Uralkali retains a positive outlook for sales this year
after prices for soft commodities “recovered” from last year,
which may boost farmers’ profits and ability to purchase
fertilizers, Petrov said. The prices for some crops, such as
corn and soybeans, are “just wonderful,” he said.  Corn rose about 15 percent to $6.7150 a bushel in the three
months to March 12. Soybeans closed at $13.3050 a bushel in
 Chicago  yesterday, an almost 20 percent rise in three months.  Brazil showed strong demand in March after cutting
inventories this year and will increase purchases even more when
the season starts in May, Petrov said. Malaysia, Indonesia and
 Vietnam  are also buying, he said.  Uralkali, whose trader BPC accounts for as much as 40
percent of world potash exports, expects sales of Russian and
Belarusian potash in China to stay at last year’s level of more
than 3 million tons. Sales in Brazil and  Asia , about 2.8 million
tons in each region last year, may fall because of local
stockpiles, Petrov said. BPC will maintain its share of
shipments to  India , even with an expected decline to about 2.5
million tons from 3 million tons, according to Petrov.  World  potash consumption  will probably stay little changed
this year at about 58 million tons, while physical supplies will
fall to about 56 million tons because of stockpiles from last
year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow
   msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Claudia
Carpenter at   ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  