-- Urban Outfitters Tumbles After Profit Trails Estimates
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2012-03-13T20:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/urban-outfitters-tumbles-after-profit-trails-estimates-1-.html
Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN) , the operator
of its namesake, Anthropologie and Free People brands, declined
the most in two months after reporting fourth-quarter earnings
that trailed analysts’ estimates.  Urban  fell  5.3 percent to $27.95 at the close in  New York 
for the biggest decline since Jan. 11. The Philadelphia-based
company’s  shares  have gained 1.4 percent this year.  Net income in the three months ended Jan. 31 fell 48
percent to $39.3 million, or 27 cents a share, from $75.2
million, or 45 cents, a year earlier, Urban said yesterday in a
statement. The average estimate of 33 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 29 cents.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Hayne, who co-founded the
company, is working to reverse the retailer’s profit decline
after taking the post from Glen Senk in January. Net income has
now dropped for five straight quarters as the chain has boosted
discounts to clear inventory.  The company plans to open 55 to 60 stores in its fiscal
2013, with 13 planned for the first quarter, Eric Artz, Urban’s
CFO, said yesterday on a conference call.  “We are disappointed, but not really surprised, that new
management continues to think the only real answer to problems
is to increase store count through thick and thin, even when the
product is not providing the answers,”  Eric Beder , an analyst
at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in New York, said today in a note
to investors. “Store expansion in the face of continued weak
operating results strikes us as a desperate play to grow and
maintain face with investors,” said Beder, who recommends
investors sell the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  