-- PDVSA Oil Spill Exposes Fissures in Chavez’s Socialist Party
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-03-13T16:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/venezuelan-oil-spill-exposes-fissures-in-chavez-s-ruling-socialist-party.html
An  oil spill  at a facility operated
by Venezuela’s state oil company has sparked the first public
spat in the ruling party since President  Hugo Chavez  was
diagnosed with cancer in June.  Jose Gregorio Briceno, a government loyalist and governor
of Monagas state, an oil producing region in the east of the
country, said the government is trying to restart a water
treatment plant that has been off line for more than a month
when there are still traces of oil in the river that supplies
the state capital Maturin.  “I opposed turning the water back on until we were sure
after conducting laboratory tests, because it’s a problem of
public health and after 33 days my decision was justified,”
Briceno said yesterday in an interview with  Globovision , a
private news network critical of the government. “They shot me
down, they said all sorts of things about me and I held on.”  Chavez, who is convalescing in Cuba following an operation
to remove a second cancerous tumor from his pelvic region, has
repeatedly called for unity within his United Socialist Party of
 Venezuela  as doubts linger about whether he’ll be fit enough to
contest an Oct. 7 election where he’s seeking to extend his 13-
year rule until 2019.  “There’s an interesting process occurring here over time
that’s an indicator of what could happen in the future depending
on what happens with the president’s health,” said Vladimir
Villegas, a columnist at Caracas-based El daily Nacional and a
former Chavez ally.  Chavez will have to react to Briceno’s rebellion when he
returns. Still, expelling the Monagas state governor would
“open a big hole in Chavismo,” and lead to the possible loss
of the state in December’s regional elections as Briceno
commands his own support in the state, Villegas said.  Public Safety  A pipeline at  Petroleos de Venezuela SA ’s Jusepin complex
in Monagas ruptured Feb. 4, sending a 30-meter (295 feet) column
of oil in the air, El Nacional reported.  While PDVSA President  Rafael Ramirez  told reporters Feb. 29
that 5,000 to 6,000 barrels of oil had been spilled and that the
water supply was fit for drinking, opposition lawmaker Juan
Pablo Garcia said that as many as 300,000 barrels may have been
spilled into the river that services 500,000 residents of the
state capital.  PDVSA Vice President Eulogio Del Pino was shown on state
television drinking a glass of the brown water to prove that the
river no longer posed any threat to public health.  ‘Restore Order’  The oil company’s arguments haven’t convinced Briceno, who
has been governor since 2004. He also said that PSUV party
officials, including the party’s vice president,  Diosdado Cabello , are taking advantage of Chavez’s absence while he
recovers from an operation in Cuba, to attack him.  Ahead of elections in December, Cabello has unleashed “a
pack of hounds” on him in an attempt to wrest control of the
governorship, Briceno said.  Cabello, who participated in a failed coup with Chavez in
1992 and was briefly sworn in as president during a two-day
toppling of Chavez in 2002, was promoted to party vice president
in January after winning a seat as a lawmaker in the National
Assembly in 2010 representing Briceno’s state.  He’s since been promoted to National Assembly president.
Speaking on state television yesterday during a party meeting,
Cabello declined to comment on Briceno’s accusations.  “I ask God that Chavez recovers from his illness, but he
needs to come here and restore order and clean up the house. He
needs to protect me from an ambush,” Briceno said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at o
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  