-- Vietnam Yet to Fix ‘Dire Situation’ of Weak Banks, IMF Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-13T05:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/vietnam-yet-to-fix-dire-situation-of-weak-banks-imf-says-1-.html
Vietnam has yet to resolve the
“dire situation” facing its weakest banks and deposit-rate
cuts will make it more difficult for such lenders to attract
funds, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The government should separate bad assets of weaker lenders
as part of its restructuring plan, and consider selling the
holdings to a private or public asset management company, Masato Miyazaki, the IMF’s chief for the country said in a telephone
interview in Hanoi yesterday. A failure to resolve bad debts may
erode confidence in the banking industry, he said.  Questions about the health of Vietnam’s lenders are
underpinning concerns over the economy’s stability, with the
nation stepping up efforts to fix the banking system. Prime
Minister Nguyen Tan Dung approved a bank restructuring plan this
month and measures may include government purchases of
collateralized bad-debt from commercial banks and greater
foreign ownership in weak lenders.  “Overall I don’t think the situation of  Vietnam ’s banking
industry has improved yet,” Washington-based Miyazaki said
during a trip to Hanoi. “The understanding of the problem on
the part of the authorities has improved, but the dire situation
facing the weak banks hasn’t improved.”  Rapid credit growth in recent years has fueled a trade
 deficit  and  Asia ’s fastest inflation, prompting depositors to
favor short-term savings and crimping funding for long-term
loans.  Difficult Position  The  State Bank  of Vietnam said it’s lowering the dong
deposit cap for terms of one month and above to 13 percent from
14 percent from today. The cut in the deposit rate cap may put
the smaller and weaker banks in a more difficult position,
Miyazaki said.  “They can’t mobilize funds from depositors even at the 14
percent rate, given their well-known weaknesses,” he said. “At
a 13 percent deposit rate, they will find it even more difficult.
That would drive them even more toward liquidity support” from
the central bank, he said.  The shares of all five banks listed on the  Ho Chi Minh City
Stock Exchange (VNINDEX)  rose today, with the Joint-Stock Commercial Bank
for  Foreign Trade  of Vietnam, known as Vietcombank, climbing 1.1
percent to 27,100 dong, and Vietnam Joint-Stock Commercial Bank
for Industry & Trade gaining 1.7 percent to 24,700 dong.  Non-Performing Loans  The bad-debt ratio at Vietnam’s commercial banks was
predicted by central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh in November
to reach as high as 3.8 percent in December from 3.3 percent the
previous month. The level may exceed official figures by as much
as four times,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report last week, as it
warned bank asset quality may deteriorate further and the
government’s capacity to absorb bad debts is unclear.  Policy makers must act “to prevent liquidity problems from
turning into solvency problems, if a deposit-rate cut forces
weak banks even more into the arms of the State Bank of
Vietnam,” Miyazaki said.  The lack of liquidity at small banks is unlikely to cause a
system-wide panic in Vietnam, he said.  “But if they don’t take steps to resolve the bad debts, we
may see some erosion of confidence in the banking industry down
the road,” Miyazaki said.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Shamim Adam,
K.Oanh Ha  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  