-- VimpelCom Chief Lunder Searches for Partnerships to Reduce Burden of Debt
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-03-13T12:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/vimpelcom-forecasts-mid-single-digit-revenue-growth.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) ,  Russia ’s third-
largest wireless company by subscribers, is seeking partnerships
in its markets to rein in capital expenditure and improve the
ratio of debt to profit.  The  company  reported a fourth-quarter net loss of $386
million, compared with profit of $461 million a year earlier,
and targeted “mid-single digit” revenue growth through 2014.
Operations in Vietnam and  Cambodia  had impairment charges of
$527 million, Amsterdam-based VimpelCom said in a  statement 
today. The company added debt to buy Wind Telecom SpA last year.  The margin for earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in Russia, the largest unit,
narrowed to 39.4 percent of sales from 46.4 percent as the
company invested in networks to draw new customers. Moves such
as tower sharing, outsourcing and consolidation within markets
will help the company to cut  capital spending  and improve
profitability, Chief Executive Officer Jo Lunder said.  “You will see this happening with VimpelCom in the next
two to three years as part of the initiative to reduce capex,”
Lunder said in an interview today. “We have opportunities in
Russia, Asia and Italy. There are ongoing discussions.”  The company is also considering tower sharing in  Pakistan ,
Lunder said. He targets capital expenditure of less than 15
percent of sales by 2014, compared with 21 percent in 2011.  Vimpelcom is the world’s sixth-largest wireless operator by
subscribers, and more than 70 percent of its subscribers are
outside of Russia.  Vietnam and Cambodia  Fourth-quarter pro-forma sales rose 4 percent to $5.88
billion.  VimpelCom aims to reduce its ratio of net debt to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to less
than 2 by the end of 2014 through a combination of cost cutting
and higher-margin services, Lunder said.  The company isn’t considering the refinancing of debt at
the moment, though it may refinance some “ring-fenced debt” in
 Italy  later, he said.  VimpelCom expects Russia to award spectrum for LTE fourth-
generation wireless technology in the first half, Lunder said.  “We have a good chance to win one of the four blocks,” he
said. “We don’t expect a large supply of LTE phones until 2013
and for that reason a launch in 2012 is largely PR and image-
driven.”  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization are forecast for “mid-single-digit” growth
through 2014. Vietnam and Cambodia have proved to be less
profitable than originally thought because of the number of
operators and the lateness of VimpelCom’s entry, Lunder said.  “Those are two markets where we don’t have a strong
position and for that reason we’ve done a thorough analysis of
how realistic the future of those markets is for VimpelCom,”
Lunder said.  VimpelCom still wants to be a long-term investor in
 Algeria , Lunder said, without giving a timetable for discussions
on the future of its Djezzy unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  