-- Viterra Soaring on Bid Talk Still Offers 42% Discount
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-03-13T15:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/viterra-soaring-on-takeover-talk-still-bargain-with-42-discount-real-m-a.html
Viterra Inc. (VT)  is offering potential
acquirers the chance to capitalize on the end of a wheat and
barley monopoly in western Canada at a discount of at least 42
percent to the grain handler’s sales.  Shares of Viterra, which said on March 9 it had received
interest from third parties, surged 32 percent to C$14.45
($14.56) through yesterday, valuing the Regina, Saskatchewan-
based company at  0.46 times sales , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. With takeover estimates ranging from PI Financial
Corp.’s C$14.40 a share to C$18.50 a share from Raymond James
Financial Inc., buyers still wouldn’t be paying more than 0.58
times  revenue , the data show.  Viterra, Canada’s biggest grain handler with 45 percent of
the market, expects as much as a $50 million boost to pretax
earnings in 2014 after the passage of a  new law  that will allow
farmers in the west of the country to start selling wheat and
barley to buyers other than the Canadian Wheat Board on Aug. 1.
Even without the profit increase, an acquisition within the
range of analysts’ estimates would value Viterra at less
relative to projected 2013  net income  than the median multiple
in agriculture takeovers greater than $1 billion, the data show.  The deregulation “adds a lot of earnings power to the
company,” Steven Hansen, a Vancouver-based analyst for  Raymond
James , said in a telephone interview. “A bid today could be
very opportunistic in buying in advance of that earnings power.
There is certainly a lot of strategic value in Viterra’s
assets.”  Today’s Trading  Holly Gibney, a spokeswoman for Viterra, declined to
comment beyond the company’s March 9 statement, which said it
received “expressions of interest” from third parties and that
there “can be no assurance that any agreement or transaction
will result.”  “A further announcement will be made if appropriate,” the
press release said.  Viterra shares climbed 1 percent to C$14.60 at 10:58 a.m.
in Toronto today, the highest level since June 2008.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the largest publicly traded
commodities supplier, has expressed an interest in acquiring
Viterra, a person familiar with the situation said this week.
Other companies may also be studying Viterra, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the details haven’t been
made public. Closely held grain distributor Cargill Inc. has
also expressed interest, the Wall Street Journal reported March
11, citing people it didn’t identify.  A spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore, and  Lisa Clemens  at Cargill, wouldn’t comment yesterday.  ‘It’s a Rush’  “It clearly looks as though there is interest in Viterra
probably from multiple parties,” Jason Zandberg, an analyst for
PI Financial in  Vancouver , said in a phone interview. “There’s
some nice assets in play and it’s a rush to buy them.”  Before Viterra’s announcement, the shares had fallen 5.5
percent in the  prior year . After the disclosure, the stock
posted its steepest two-day climb in nine years and the biggest
gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of 1,611 stocks, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. At yesterday’s close, the company had a market
value of C$5.4 billion, up from C$4.1 billion on March 8.  Even after the stock increase, Viterra’s price-to-sales
ratio of 0.46 yesterday was cheaper than 74 percent of North
American agricultural product wholesalers and food manufacturers
with market values over $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The group traded at an average of 1.02 times revenue.  Viterra, which changed its name from Saskatchewan Wheat
Pool in 2007 after acquiring larger rival Agricore United,
delivers grain to food manufacturers, sells fertilizer and seeds
to farmers, and processes canola and oat for foods such as
cereal and breakfast bars.  Demand for Food  Acquirers are taking interest in Viterra as growing
populations in  emerging markets  and increasingly rich consumers
drive food demand. The United Nations Food and Agriculture
Organization has said that  food output  must rise  70 percent  by
2050 to feed a world population expected to grow to more than 9
billion from about 7 billion now.  Raymond James’ Hansen says an acquisition of Viterra may
command as much as C$18.50 a share, or 28 percent more than
yesterday’s close. At that price, a buyer would be paying 0.58
times the company’s C$11.8 billion in  sales  last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. An acquirer would also assume more
than C$900 million in  net debt .  Kenneth Zaslow, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in  New
York , said in a report yesterday that Viterra could fetch
C$14.50 to C$17.50 a share, while Zandberg of PI Financial pegs
it at a minimum of C$14.40 a share. Zandberg’s estimated price
would value Viterra at less than yesterday’s close.  Canadian Regulatory Review  Viterra  shareholder  Aston Hill Financial Inc., which
oversees C$5.5 billion in client assets, would want a buyer to
pay at least C$16 a share, said Andrew L.B. Hamlin, a Toronto-
based  money manager  for the firm.  Foreign suitors trying to acquire Viterra may have
difficulty obtaining approval from Canadian regulators, said
 Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based special situations
and merger arbitrage strategist at  Tullett Prebon  Plc.  The Canadian government rejected Melbourne-based  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion hostile bid for Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan in November 2010
after the province said the sale would cut jobs and  tax revenue .  Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall said yesterday that while
Viterra isn’t a “strategic resource” for the Canadian province
like Potash Corp., his government will review any takeover bid
to make sure a sale benefits the province.  ‘Net Benefit’  Saskatchewan will give input into any federal government
review of a takeover to ensure the transaction is of “net
benefit,” Wall told reporters yesterday, according to a
recording provided by his office. The federal industry
department reviews foreign acquisitions of companies with assets
valued at more than C$330 million under the Investment  Canada 
Act to determine if they are a “net benefit” to the country.  “Ultimately I see the valuation as very compelling and
there is an opportunity for a lot of parties to get involved as
long as the Canadian government and politicians give the green
light,” Tullett Prebon’s Shah said in a phone interview.  A takeover would give a buyer the largest share of the
Canadian grain-handling market as the Canadian Wheat Board’s
monopoly over wheat and barley grown in the west of the country
ends. A law passed in December allows farmers in the nation’s
main growing region to sell to any buyer of wheat and barley for
delivery after Aug. 1, ending a system in place since 1943 under
which farmers were required to sell through the board.  ‘Gain Market Share’  “The dissolution of the Canadian Wheat Board all of a
sudden now opens up this opportunity for international players
as well as Viterra to now compete without the government
controlling grain handling,” Hamlin said. “With the Canadian
Wheat Board going away, other companies have the ability to gain
market share.”  The deregulation may boost Viterra’s share of the market in
western Canada from 45 percent to close to 50 percent in the
next few years, Chief Executive Officer Mayo Schmidt said last
week. The company said in a March 8 statement it expects the
change to boost earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization by C$40 million to C$50 million a year starting
in fiscal 2014.  Raymond James’ Hansen is estimating Viterra will make as
much as C$30 million more Ebitda in 2014 than 2013 when he
projects earnings of C$730 million. The 2014 estimate doesn’t
account for potential growth in other business units, he said.  Relative Value  Even at the highest estimate of C$18.50 a share, a takeover
would value Viterra at 22.7 times net income of C$303 million in
2013, based on analysts’ earnings  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Such a valuation would be less than the median of
27.4 times for agriculture takeovers of more than $1 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s also before taking into
account Viterra’s higher expected earnings from the monopoly
dismantling, which would make a forward-looking net income
multiple even lower.  The end of the Canadian Wheat Board’s monopoly “makes the
whole market more attractive,” said PI Financial’s Zandberg.
“And Viterra being the largest player in the grain origination
business in Canada, it makes them a target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 