-- Vodacom Must Pay $21 Million After Losing Congo Appeal
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-03-13T12:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/vodacom-ordered-to-pay-mabanga-21-million-after-losing-appeal-in-congo.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the largest
provider of mobile-phone services to  South Africans , was ordered
to pay former consultant Moto Mabanga $21 million after losing
an appeal in a Democratic Republic of Congo court.  “The judgment is now final,” Mabanga said today by mobile
phone from the capital, Kinshasa. Vodacom hasn’t received
official confirmation of the judgment, spokesman Richard Boorman
said from Johannesburg.  The appeal court in the city yesterday dismissed Vodacom’s
stay of execution against a Jan. 25 judgment in which the
Johannesburg-based mobile-phone operator was ordered to pay fees
owed to Mabanga plus 8 percent a year in interest and the costs
of the litigation, he said.  Mabanga sued Vodacom last year, seeking a $40.8 million
“success fee” for work done during 2007 and 2008 on top of a
$2.8 million service fee that he was paid for consultancy work.
The mobile operator owns 51 percent of Vodacom Congo SPRL and is
considering its options with the holding, which may include a
sale, amid a dispute over funding with 49 percent shareholder
Congolese Wireless Network.  A high court judge in Kinshasa in April 2011 provisionally
ordered Vodacom to place shares amounting to the value of the
claim in an escrow account pending a final order. In January the
court awarded a reduced claim of $21 million to Mabanga. Vodacom
appealed the judgment.  Mabanga said the appeal court handed the judgment orally
yesterday. “I have a judgment and will now follow the legal
process to recover the funds from Vodacom,” said Mabanga,
adding that a written judgment will be made available today.  “We are now trying to identify Vodacom’s assets to attach
them, if it comes to that,” said Mabanga.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong 
at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  