-- Volume of Volcker Rule Comments Was No Surprise, Regulators Say
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-03-13T20:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/volume-of-volcker-rule-comments-was-no-surprise-regulators-say.html
U.S. regulators said they weren’t
surprised by the volume of the critical comments filed by
financial companies and foreign governments over the Volcker
rule, which bars U.S. banks from trading for their own account.  Acting Comptroller of the Currency  John Walsh  and Acting
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg
said in interviews today that concerns raised over the rule were
due to its complexity and to its essential purpose -- the
elimination of proprietary trading by U.S. banks.  The rule “goes to what’s been a significant activity for
the major financial companies,” Gruenberg said in an interview
in Nashville,  Tennessee , where he addressed the  national
convention  for the  Independent Community Bankers of America .  The FDIC and OCC are among five regulatory agencies
required to draft and implement the rule, which was named for
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , by July 21. After
receiving more than 17,000 comments about the initial proposal,
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said regulators may miss the
deadline.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  are among the institutions that filed comments about the
scope of the rule’s impact on activities such as market-making
and hedging. Many of the commenting institutions complained that
those activities weren’t included in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act,
the legislation that requires U.S. regulators to write hundreds
of rules governing the financial industry.  A New Framework  “I understand the concerns, but it’s a new framework and
we have to put it into place,” Walsh said in an interview.
“There are a lot of people who just don’t like the basic idea
of the rule and I think a certain amount of the criticism is
from that quarter.”  The FDIC has had an open dialog with institutions about its
other Dodd-Frank duties, including on a joint rule with the Fed
that requires the largest banks to draft and file plans to
protect the broader economy in the event of their collapse,
Gruenberg said. Regulators may ask firms to make changes or shed
businesses if the plans are deemed inadequate.  The plans for banks with more than $250 billion in non-bank
assets are due to the agency and the Fed by July, and regulators
will probably ask for more information after the initial filing,
he said, adding that there would be a “considerable process of
engagement” after the plans are submitted.  Gruenberg, the agency’s former vice chairman and President
Barack Obama’s nominee as chairman of the agency, said it is
“too early” to make a judgment on whether banks will be
required to make changes in their business models.  “At some point we will reach an end to the process and the
plan will either satisfy the requirements of the law or the
company may be asked to make changes,” Gruenberg said. “We’re
not near that point yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  