-- Wal-Mart Tries Hollywood Cloud-Seeding Plan to Sell Films
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-03-13T20:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/wal-mart-tests-hollywood-s-cloud-seeding-plan-to-sell-more-films.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, backed a Hollywood-led plan that seeks to
increase home-video sales by letting consumers buy, store and
stream movies on the Internet.  Wal-Mart will offer a service called disc-to-digital that
lets customers bring DVDs and Blu-ray discs they already own
into stores to convert into online copies, the Bentonville,
Arkansas-company said today at a press event in Los Angeles.  Support from Wal-Mart, the biggest DVD seller, is a major
step in Hollywood’s strategy, called UltraViolet, to reignite
home-video purchases and counter a rise in online rental and
subscription services that generate less profit for studios. The
exclusive deal gives Wal-Mart’s Vudu.com movie-sales and rental
website a jump on rivals like  Best Buy Co. (BBY) ’s CinemaNow.  “This is a monumental step for UltraViolet,” said David Bishop, head of home entertainment at Sony Pictures
Entertainment. “This is what the promise of UltraViolet was
when we started it.”  Wal-Mart’s service starts on April 16 in 3,500 stores and
will be exclusive for a period still under discussion, John
Aden, executive vice president for general merchandise, said in
an interview. The company will charge $2 for each disc
converted, or $5 to upgrade from a normal DVD to a high-
definition cloud-based copy.  UltraViolet allows users to buy and store movies online and
access them through multiple devices. It was developed by five
of the six biggest studios, along with retailers and device
makers, to counter a consumer shift toward  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , cable
pay-per-view and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes, which generally generate
less profit for Hollywood than DVD or Blu-ray sales.  Disney, Apple  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century
Fox,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner
Bros. are members of the UltraViolet group along with  Sony Corp. (6758) 
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  has its own cloud-based system, as does Apple
with the iCloud adjunct to the iTunes store.  Disc-to-digital is a key component of UltraViolet, giving
customers a chance to seed a cloud-based movie collection
without repurchasing titles they already own. Wal-Mart is
betting that once customers upload their existing libraries to
Vudu they’ll return to the site for new purchases.  “If this actually is the trigger and consumers start
seeking the UltraViolet rights, this is a huge win for Wal-
Mart” depending on how long exclusivity lasts, said Scott
Smyers, an analyst with Sunrise Digital Technologies and a
former Sony executive.  Wal-Mart rose 0.5 percent to $61 at the close  New York  and
has added 2.1 percent this year.  Online Competition  Studios expect to have 4,500 titles, including many
popular ones, within weeks of disc-to-digital’s initial push.  UltraViolet faces an uphill battle competing with the ease
and lower expense of online movie rentals or subscription plans
by Netflix, Hulu LLC and Amazon.com, Rich Greenfield, an analyst
with BTIG in New York, said in an interview. It won’t spur movie
ownership because it doesn’t address the high price of new
releases, he said.  “Seeding a collection is a great idea if you could seed it
for free,” Greenfield said. “There are multiple flaws right
now in the strategy that hinder adoption.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  