-- Water Pollution Rises From Farms, Costing Billions
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-03-13T15:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/water-pollution-tied-to-agriculture-increasing-costing-billions.html
Water pollution from agriculture is
costing billions of dollars a year in developed countries and is
expected to increase in China and India as farmers race to
increase  food production , the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said.  “Pollution from farm pesticides and fertilizers is often
diffuse, making it hard to pin down exactly where it’s coming
from,” Kevin Parris, author of a report from the Paris-based
organization, said in an interview in Marseille. “In some big
agricultural countries in  Europe , like parts of France,  Spain 
and the U.K., the situation is deteriorating.”  In some regions of China, pollution of waterways from
agriculture may already have reached the point where it may
trigger health problems in people, he said.  The OECD report is part of a series of studies published
this week to coincide with the  World Water Forum  in Marseille.
Ministers, industry representatives and non-government
organizations are discussing resource management, waste, health
risks and  climate change  at the meeting. Pollution from farming
is gaining prominence as the global population increases,
raising demand for food and putting strain on water resources.  Fertilizers such as nitrates and phosphates as well as
pesticides that run off farms can contaminate drinking water,
harm aquatic life and result in eutrophication, or a
proliferation of plants that reduces oxygen content in water and
eliminates other sea life, according to the study.  Lakes at Risk  “The number of lakes at risk of harmful algal blooms will
increase by 20 percent in the first half of this century,” the
OECD said. By 2050 the nitrogen surpluses per hectare from
agriculture are forecast to drop in OECD member countries and
rise in  China  and India  Costs from agricultural pollution include money spent
treating water to remove nitrates, phosphates and pesticide
chemicals as well as paying farmers to store manure safely and
block contamination from reaching waterways, according to the
study. Environmental contamination such as algal blooms also
adds to the bill.  France disputes European Commission findings that the
country is surpassing nitrate levels and will “provide proof”
that measures have been put in place to contain effluents from
farm manure, said Agriculture Minister Bruno Lemaire.  ‘No One Wants This’  “We have made considerable efforts to lower nitrate levels
in water,” Lemaire said at a press conference in Marseille.
“We can’t ask the impossible of farmers or else we would have
to shut down all livestock farms in Brittany and no one wants
this. People want clean beaches and coastal areas. Our actions
will allow us to tackle the problem of algal blooms.”  Beaches covered in green algae are becoming an annual
occurrence in Brittany,  France ’s westernmost region. The issue
pits the region’s 3.6 billion-euro ($4.7 billion)  tourism
industry  against its 8.2 billion-euro farming sector, whose
large quantities of animal waste and use of fertilizers are
blamed by scientists for feeding the so-called green tides that
form in Brittany’s shallow bays.  “This is big and it’s not going away,” Parris said,
referring to massive blooms in regions around the world
including the  Gulf of Mexico . “Regulations exist but they are
often not enforced.”  Australia’s Algae  In  Australia , the cost of algal blooms may be as high as
$155 million while the price of eutrophication of surface and
coast waters in France could reach as much as $1.4 billion,
according to the study. Freshwater eutrophication costs are
estimated at $2.2 billion in the U.S. and $2 billion for
pesticide contamination of groundwater.  “In China there is already a chronic problem as well as in
parts of  India ,” Parris said. Worldwide researchers aren’t
getting the full picture of pollution from farming because
access to data is incomplete.  The OECD study also highlights possible health risks from
so-called “emerging water contaminants” from agriculture  such
as veterinary medicines used to treat livestock and substances
created from pesticides when they are transformed in the
environment.  “The impact of these mixtures is likely to be greater than
the impact of the single substance on its own,” the report
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  