-- Weidmann Says He’s Not ‘Discouraged or Isolated’ on ECB Council
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-03-13T12:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/weidmann-says-he-s-not-discouraged-or-isolated-on-ecb-council.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
comments on the German economy and European Central Bank
 monetary policy .  He made the remarks at a press conference in Frankfurt
today after presenting the Bundebank’s 2011 annual report.  On the German economy:  “Despite this challenging environment the German economy
is in remarkably good shape.”  “Growth is increasingly driven by domestic forces; it
increasingly stands on two feet.”  “2011 was not a bad year for the German economy. More
important than the past is the future. We started the year with
a dent, we are confident that activity will increase in the
course of the first half of the year. We have no reason to
change our forecast from December. We still project the economy
to grow 0.6 percent this year.”  On German inflation:  “We assume that consumer prices will rise more strongly
than previously expected. The increase of consumer prices should
slow in the course of the year but we expect inflation to rise
slightly more than 2 percent. We are thus revising our December
forecast from 1.8 percent. Inflation would thus remain above 2
percent for a second year. But it is important that inflation
expectations remain solidly anchored within our definition of
 price stability . We have to monitor inflation developments
carefully.”  “I don’t see inflation risks out of economic
developments.”  On monetary policy in times of crises:  “Monetary policy isn’t responsible for solving underlying
problems. That’s the task for fiscal policy in the member
states. The fiscal crisis is a confidence crisis, which we can
only solve by regaining confidence in financial markets and
among the population. That will only be successful if structural
problems are tackled.”  “The risks have increased. The definition of
appropriateness of risks, the role of monetary policy in crisis
times, is a balancing act.”  On ECB non-standard measures:  While “many of these measures were important” they “blur
the dividing line between monetary and fiscal policy.”  “With these measures, the central banks have taken on
risks, which are reflected in our balance sheet -- a higher risk
provision and lower profit.”  On Target2 imbalances:  “Target2 doesn’t create liquidity. The ECB acts as a sort
of clearing house.”  “The claims of the Bundesbank at the end of 2011 amounted
to 463 billion euros. At the end of February, this amount
increased to 547 billion euros.”  “An independent risk from Target2 only arises if a country
leaves the euro area. For our balance sheet, that doesn’t play a
role because we are of course assuming that the euro area will
continue to exist. Target2 balances are a symptom of the crisis
and will normalize as the crisis abates.”  “Target2 balances will dwindle when money markets relax.”  “I don’t want to speculate about the potential exit of a
country. It’s obvious that we assume a continuation of the
system.”  On an ECB exit strategy:  “In principle, one should know how to get out when you get
in. Non-standard measures aren’t only analyzed according to
their effects but also according to their risks.”  “It is important that we develop a concept. There’s unity
on the council in as much as all council members are aware that
non-standard measures create risks and have to be unwound. We
need this discussion and it is taking place. The timeframe
depends on several things, including how the environment
develops.”  “I don’t feel discouraged or isolated” on the ECB
council.  “It’s important to reduce the dependency of banks on
central-bank funding. With a three-year tender it is a bit more
complicated, but we have instruments to absorb liquidity. We
have to have this discussion, which instruments we can use in
this situation.”  On euro-area inflation:  “Monetary policy looks at the average inflation rate in
the euro area and not in individual countries. Inflation rates
are primarily driven by energy prices, which have acted
differently than expected, and indirect taxes. These effects
must be assessed differently than second-round effects. But we
must monitor inflation developments carefully.”  “ECB President  Mario Draghi  has made clear in the last
press conference that inflation forecasts were revised up and
short-term upside risks exist. I share the prognosis of Mr.
Draghi.”  On the ECB’s three-year loans:  “The three-year tender had a positive impact on financial
markets. Then we have to talk about the risks and side effects.
The situation in  Europe  is very heterogeneous, and there were
signs of a credit crunch in several economies. In  Germany , that
was not the case.”  “Risks and side effects are known to colleagues in the ECB
council. That’s why I don’t feel like the lonely caller.”  “The decision in itself was reasonable to stabilize the
situation at the time.”  “With these measures, we’re only buying time. This time
has to be used to get to the roots of the sovereign debt
crisis.”  On  Greece :  “The programs in Greece contain implementation risks. The
Greek government is responsible for the implementation of the
program and aid was pledged under the assumption that their
promises are kept.”  On Weidmann’s letter to Draghi:  “The fact that this letter became public was certainly not
helpful for the discussion in the council and not helpful for me
or Mario Draghi. But we continue to exchange views on this. I
don’t feel isolated on the ECB council because I see that the
arguments are taken on in discussions.  “Many who write about my role see more problems than I do.
I’ve known Mario Draghi from his time as FSB chair. Our exchange
has intensified since I joined the council. I would describe our
relationship as good. We respect each other.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Frankfurt at  smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  