-- Weidmann Says ECB Looking at Ways to Exit From Crisis Tools
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-03-13T14:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/weidmann-says-ecb-looking-at-ways-to-exit-from-emergency-tools.html
European Central Bank council
member Jens Weidmann said policy makers are already discussing
ways to withdraw some of the emergency cash they injected into
the banking system to fight the sovereign debt crisis.  “All council members are aware that non-standard measures
create risks and have to be unwound,” Weidmann, who heads
 Germany ’s Bundesbank, said at a press conference in Frankfurt
today. “We need this discussion and it is taking place. The
timeframe depends on several things, including how the
environment develops.”  The ECB has loaned banks more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) for three years at its  benchmark rate , which is
currently at a record low of 1 percent, swelling its balance
sheet to more than 3 trillion euros in the process. The
Bundesbank has set aside an additional 4.1 billion euros to
cover risks stemming from the ECB’s crisis-fighting measures,
which include 218 billion euros of government bond purchases.  Weidmann wrote a letter to ECB President  Mario Draghi  about
the risks the central bank is taking, fueling speculation of a
rift. He said today he has a “good relationship” with Draghi
and doesn’t feel “discouraged or isolated” on the ECB’s 23-
member council. The “risks and side effects” of the ECB’s
three-year loans “are known to colleagues,” he said.  Exit Instruments  “It’s important to reduce the dependency of banks on
central-bank funding,” Weidmann said. “With a three-year
tender it is a bit more complicated, but we have instruments to
absorb liquidity. We have to have this discussion, which
instruments we can use in this situation.”  The ECB currently takes seven-day term deposits from banks
each week to withdraw the liquidity created by its  bond purchase 
program. It could use similar tools, such as issuing short-term
bills or certificates, to drain additional cash from the system.  While Weidmann said it’s “important that we develop a
concept” for an eventual exit from liquidity measures, he
refused to be drawn on the tools the ECB might use in an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  “That’s a discussion we should have within the Governing
Council, not in front of TV cameras,” he said. “We do have
instruments to take out some of the liquidity, but I don’t want
to discuss single instruments.”  Inflation Risks  Weidmann suggested the ECB could raise  interest rates  if
 inflation  pressures increased. Rising oil prices are stoking
inflation, prompting Draghi to say last week that short-term
risks to  price stability  have moved to the upside.  Draghi said in Paris today that while inflation risks “are
not materializing at the present time,” the ECB is “continuously
alert” and “all the necessary tools to address potential upside
risks to medium-term price stability are fully available.”  “We have a clear mandate and a clear hierarchy of our
goals, and the first is to maintain price stability,” Weidmann
said in the interview. “We’re determined to do so. You can be
assured we will react if inflation pressures arise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Frankfurt at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  