-- Twin Creeks Equipment Can Help Solar Makers Cut Costs, CEO Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/twin-creeks-equipment-can-help-solar-makers-cut-costs-ceo-says.html
Twin Creeks Technologies Inc. , a
closely held maker of solar manufacturing equipment, has
developed machinery that can cut by 90 percent the amount of
silicon needed to make panels, increasing the margins of
producers, according to its chief executive officer.  The company’s equipment produces silicon wafers that are
one-tenth the thickness of conventional ones, which lowers costs
because more products are made with less material, CEO Siva Sivaram said in an interview in San Francisco.  The company’s machines, and its processes for handling
extra-thin wafers, could offer manufacturers a way to boost
margins after a global glut caused solar panel  prices  to fall by
50 percent last year, Sivaram said. The price decline has forced
Solyndra LLC into bankruptcy, prompted SunPower Corp. to seek a
buyout and reduced margins of manufacturers led by Suntech Power
Holdings Co. and  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)   Twin Creeks expects to improve manufacturing in solar
similar to the way efficiency gains in memory chip production
have preserved margins in that industry, according to Sivaram.
“In the memory industry year after year after year the price
drops 50 percent, but everybody still makes money, and the
people who make the most are the equipment guys,” he said.  “What we have done is located the weakness, it’s
materials-focused, and introduced a completely disruptive
technology,” Sivaram said.  The company’s proprietary machine, called the Hyperion,
eliminates the need for 52 pieces of equipment typically
required to make wafers, he said. “Kill the whole thing and
replace it with Hyperions,” Sivaram said. “That’s really what
we want to do.”  Hydrogen Ions  Hyperions use a technology Twin Creeks calls “proton
induced exfoliation” to inject hydrogen ions at high voltage
into wafers. The protons create “microcracks” that cause thin
layers to peel off at about 20 microns (0.02 millimeters) in
thickness when the wafers are heated later in a furnace, Sivaram
said. Typical wafers are about ten times as thick, he said.  Hyperions could halve the cost of a typical 1-gigawatt cell
 production line , even though they’re “expensive,” he said,
without giving the exact selling price.  Each Hyperion can produce about 6 megawatts of wafers, so
about 16 machines would be needed for a 100-megawatt production
line, he said.  Panels made from Twin Creeks’ wafers have similar power-
conversion efficiencies of conventional ones though they’re thin
enough to be flexible like thin-film products made by companies
such as MiaSole Inc. and SoloPower Inc., which use materials
other than silicon, according to Sivaram.  “What you have is the world’s first flexible single-
crystal silicon,” he said. The flexibility of the wafers lowers
costs further because bendable packaging can be used for cells
and panels, instead of glass or aluminum, Twin Creeks said today
in a statement.  Venture Capital  Twin Creeks, based in  San Jose ,  California , is backed by
about $93 million in  venture capital  from Crosslink Capital
Inc., Benchmark Capital, DAG Ventures LLC, Artis Capital
Management LP and Taiwan-based Global Strategic Investment Fund,
Sivaram said.  The company completed a plant in  Mississippi  in May 2011
that “is intended as a working laboratory for all of our
customers,” Sivaram said.  The site has two Hyperion machines and a production line
capable of making 25 megawatts of solar cells a year. There is
space to expand to 100 megawatts a year if a partner chose to do
so, Sivaram said.  Since the company’s founding in 2008, it has refocused on
providing capital equipment instead of making panels.  “I sell capital equipment,” Sivaram said. “I want to be
able to sell it to every cell and panel maker in the world, so
I’m not the one laying out the last penny on the margin and
fighting for panel and cell price,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  