-- Wisconsin Officials Get More Time to Study Recall Petitions
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 2012-03-14T18:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/wisconsin-officials-get-more-time-to-study-recall-petitions-1-.html
Wisconsin  election officials were
given 11 more days to review petitions seeking the recall of
Governor  Scott Walker , according to a copy of an agreement
provided by the state attorney general’s office.  Walker, a first-term Republican, Lieutenant Governor
Rebecca Kleefisch and four state senators, including Republican
Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald, are the targets of the recall
drive started after Fitzgerald secured the passage of a bill
limiting public employee collective bargaining rights, signed by
the governor a year ago.  Wisconsin’s Government Accountability Board sought an
extension of the March 19 deadline so that it could complete its
review of petition signatures. State Circuit Court Judge Richard
Niess in Madison ratified the extension today, the agency said
in a press statement.  “The board will meet March 30 to certify the results,”
Reid Magney, a GAB spokesman, said in a phone interview.  If the board, which administers state elections, finds a
sufficient number of valid signatures have been collected, there
would be a primary election on May 8. Walker and the other
officials would then face a recall election on June 5, he said.
If there is no primary in any of the races, the May date will be
for the final election.  Additional Time  Lawyers for the officeholders agreed to the additional time
yesterday, submitting to Niess their signed stipulation for his
approval.  Valid signatures from 540,208 people, one quarter of the
voters who cast ballots in the November 2010 election that
propelled Walker into office, are required to trigger a run-off,
according to the Government Accountability Board website.  As of March 12, 931,042 Walker recall signatures had been
submitted, of which 905,547 were deemed valid, the board said in
a statement, adding that it sought additional time to review the
petitions for duplicate signatures.  Cullen Werwie, a spokesman for Walker, referred requests
for comment to Republican Party spokesman Ben Sparks.  “A statewide recall election comes as a significant burden
to state and local taxpayers with a cost of $9 million for a
single statewide election,” Sparks said in a phone interview.
“We urge the GAB to see that all of these elections are held on
a single given day.”  Sufficient Signatures  While the board said petitioners have collected sufficient
signatures to cause recall elections for Fitzgerald and three
other state senators, it hasn’t yet certified those results.
Doing so would have mandated setting an election date for those
seats on the Tuesday of the sixth week after certification.  “This scenario allows all the recall elections to be
consolidated on two dates, saving taxpayers additional costs had
the elections been held on different schedules,”  Kevin Kennedy ,
the board’s director and general counsel, said today in the
statement.  Dan Romportl,  executive director  for the Committee to Elect
a Republican Senate, said the party and the office holders had
anticipated such a contest and that they were confident they
would prevail.  “We’re absolutely feeling good going into this,” he said.  Brad Wojciechowski, spokesman for the Wisconsin Senate
Democrats, said there’s no more than one Democratic candidate in
each senate district. He added that candidates don’t declare
until the Government Accountability Board certifies the results.  Former Dane County Executive Kathleen Falk and Senator
Kathleen Vinehout, both Democrats, have said they plan to seek
Walker’s job.  The case is In Re Petitions to Recall Governor Scott
Walker, 2012-cv-0295,  Dane County , Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 