-- Treasury Two-Year Note Yields Touch Seven-Month High Before Fed’s Decision
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-03-13T11:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/two-year-treasury-yields-match-highest-in-seven-months-before-retail-sales.html
Treasury (YCGT0025)  two-year note yields rose
to a seven-month high before the Federal Reserve decision and a
U.S. report forecast by economists to show retail sales
increased in February.  Ten-year yields advanced for a fifth day before the
Treasury sells $21 billion of the securities today, and 30-year
yields increased before tomorrow’s $13 billion auction of the
debt. A Bloomberg News survey showed the best six months of job
gains since 2006 have helped reduce the odds of a third round of
asset purchases by the Fed this year.  “The economic data are somewhat better, so there is no
reason to think that the Fed will take additional steps now,”
said Piet Lammens, head of research at KBC Bank NV in Brussels.
“We would expect some downward pressure on Treasuries because
yields are very low, but because the outlook for monetary policy
is very accommodative, there’s a limit on how much yields can
rise.”  Yields on two-year notes were up less than one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.33 percent at 7:23 a.m. in  New
York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 0.25
percent securities maturing in February 2014 dropped less than
1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 27/32.  The two-year note yields were at the highest level since
Aug. 4. Yields on benchmark 10-year notes gained two basis
points to 2.05 percent after increasing nine basis points over
the previous four trading days. Thirty-year bond yields advanced
two basis points to 3.19 percent.  Treasury Volatility  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , measuring price
swings based on options, dropped yesterday to 69.9, the lowest
level since July 2007. The gauge was as high as 117.8 on Aug. 8.  Retail sales advanced 1.1 percent last month in the biggest
increase since September, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before today’s Commerce Department report. Sales gained 0.4
percent in January.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Jan. 25 after the
central bank’s previous meeting that policy makers were
considering additional asset purchases to boost growth. The
central bank also extended a pledge to keep the benchmark
 interest rate  at almost zero through at least late 2014. The Fed
bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of quantitative
easing from December 2008 to June 2011.  “A large-scale expansion of quantitative easing is much
less likely,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, a senior strategist in Tokyo
at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest
listed bank by market value. The increase in yields “results
from strong U.S. economic data.”  Outlook for Fed  Sixty-one percent of respondents in a March 9-12 Bloomberg
News survey said Bernanke will refrain from any action to expand
the Fed’s $2.89 trillion balance sheet this year. In January, 50
percent of those surveyed predicted more bond buying. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  will release its statement at
about 2:15 p.m. after meeting in  Washington .  The difference in yield between  Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities (USGGBE10)  and nominal bonds indicates investors
expect consumer prices to rise 2.31 percent annually over the
next 10 years. That’s up from a 2011 low of 1.67 percent reached
on Sept. 23.  Euro-area finance ministers said after a meeting yesterday
that  Spain  should consider additional austerity measures to cut
its deficit and meet budget targets. They also signed off on a
second Greek bailout fund after the nation led its creditors
into the biggest restructuring of sovereign debt in history.  Europe ‘Improving’  “The situation in  Europe  has been improving lately, but
their fiscal problems have yet to be resolved,” said Shinichiro Kadota, who covers non-yen bonds as a strategist at Barclays Plc
in  Tokyo . “Demand for Treasuries will remain resilient in a
flight to quality from Europe’s problems.”  The 10-year U.S. notes being sold today yielded 2.05
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.02 percent at
the previous auction of the securities on Feb. 8.  At yesterday’s $32 billion sale of three-year notes.
indirect bidders purchased 34.6 percent of the securities,
compared with an average of 36.8 percent during the past 10
sales. The class of investor includes foreign central banks.  Treasury 10-year yields will increase to 2.54 percent by
year-end, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey, with the most recent projections given the heaviest
weighting. The yields have been in a range of 1.79 percent to
2.09 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  