-- Yen Weakens to 11-Month Low on BOJ Easing; Dollar Gains on Economic Data
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-13T16:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/yen-weakens-versus-dollar-and-euro-on-greek-bailout-u-s-economy-optimism.html
The yen dropped to the weakest
level against the dollar in almost 11 months after Bank of  Japan 
Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  indicated the central bank will keep
using monetary policy as a tool to tackle deflation.  The dollar strengthened and Treasury yields rose as retail
sales gained the most in five months, further tempering
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will signal additional stimulus
after a meeting today. The pound rallied as U.K. housing prices
climbed to a 19-month high. The euro fell against most of its 16
major counterparts as a European Central Bank council member
said policy makers are discussing ways to withdraw some of the
emergency cash they injected into the banking system.  “There has been a move up in U.S. Treasury yields and
that’s helping drive dollar-yen, and the dollar against the
majors in general,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the
corporate currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in  New
York . “The  U.S. economy  is starting to distance itself.”  The yen fell 0.5 percent to 82.67 per dollar at 12:42 p.m.
New York time, after declining to 82.86, the weakest since April
20. Japan’s currency was 0.2 percent lower at 108.37 per euro.
The shared European currency declined 0.4 percent to $1.3108.  Yields on benchmark Treasury 10-year notes rose four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.07 percent.
Two-year note  yields  were up less than one basis point to 0.33
percent, the highest level since Aug. 4.  European Policy  The 17-nation euro touched its weakest level in a month
versus the dollar before paring losses as  Greece  announced it
paid the interest due on one of its international bonds
yesterday.  “All council members are aware that non-standard measures
create risks and have to be unwound,” Jens Weidmann, who heads
Germany’s Bundesbank, said at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
today. “We need this discussion and it is taking place. The
time frame depends on several things, including how the
environment develops.”  Weidmann wrote a letter to ECB President Mario Draghi about
the risks the central bank is taking, fueling speculation of a
rift.  Sterling gained 0.9 percent to 83.33 pence per euro after
the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors home-price gauge
increased 3 points from January to minus 13, the strongest
reading since July 2010. The pound rose 0.6 percent to $1.5732.
It fell to as little as $1.5603 yesterday, the weakest level
since Jan. 25.  U.S. Data  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners rose 0.1 percent to 79.990 as retail sales in
the U.S. rose 1.1 percent in February, according Commerce
Department figures.  “The dollar has been responding positively to U.S. data
surprises and that suggests that the market isn’t translating
positive data surprises from the U.S. into a broader support for
risk appetite but is in fact looking at it as a dollar positive
event,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European currency strategy
at Morgan Stanley in  London . “That’s a very significant change
which has been taking place.”  Canada’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to 98.99 cents per  U.S.
dollar . Mexico’s peso advanced 0.2 percent to 12.6363 versus the
dollar as accelerating growth in the U.S. will boost exports.  New Zealand’s dollar was the best performer against the
dollar, advancing 0.5 percent to 82.18 U.S. cents.  Japan Banks  BOJ Governor Shirakawa and his board members kept the
benchmark  interest rate  between zero and 0.1 percent, the
central bank said in a statement today. Policy makers left its
asset-purchase fund at 30 trillion yen ($360 billion) after
unexpectedly boosting bond buying by 10 trillion yen at the Feb.
14 meeting. The measures contributed to weakening the yen and
helped boost stocks, Shirakawa told reporters in  Tokyo .  “Monetary-policy expectations are now driving currencies
again, so dollar-yen has performed so well because the
combination of the possibility of less-dovish comments from the
Fed and more-dovish comments from the  Bank of Japan (8301) ,” said
 Kathy Lien , director of currency research with online currency
trader GFT Forex in New York.  The dollar may strengthen to 85 yen by the middle of this
year as the greenback’s 100-day moving average rose above its
200-day moving average, forming a so-called golden cross, said
 Koji Fukaya , Credit Suisse’s chief currency strategist in Tokyo.  Implied volatility of three-month options on the dollar-yen
currency pair declined to 10.86 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It advanced to 11.21 percent yesterday,
the most since Sept. 29. The implied volatility of three-month
euro-dollar options declined to 10.67 percent from 11.34 percent
a week ago.  Japan’s currency slid 6 percent in the past month, the
worst performer among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
appreciated 0.9 percent, and the euro advanced 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  