-- Hypo Alpe Won’t Pay Austria Even after First Net in Years
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-03-13T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/hypo-alpe-won-t-pay-austria-dividend-after-returning-to-profit.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, a nationalized Austrian lender, won’t pay a dividend to the
state even after posting its first annual profit in four years.  Net income was 69.3 million euros ($91.3 million) in 2011
under international financial reporting standards after a 1.1
billion-euro loss the year before, the Klagenfurt, Austria-based
bank said today in a statement on its website. Hypo won’t pay a
dividend because it still posted a full-year loss of 164.7
million euros, according to Austrian accounting standards.  Austria  took over Hypo Alpe in 2009 after bad debts, mostly
linked to real estate in the former Yugoslavia, soared and
former owners, including  Bayerische Landesbank (BLGZ) , withdrew their
support. Chief Executive Officer Gottwald Kranebitter has split 
off the bank’s “sound” units in preparation for a sale in the
first half of this year.  “Clear proof of Hypo Alpe Adria’s viability, minimizing
Austrian-state support and preparation for a re-privatization
are in the best interest of our owners and the focus of our
work,” Kranebitter, 47 said in a statement. Preparations to
sell Austrian and Italian bank units are “well under way,” he
said.  That leaves a “wind-down unit” comprising about 10
billion euros of assets that are non-performing or can’t be sold
at a profit.  Bank Restructuring  Hypo Alpe received 1.35 billion euros in state capital in
2009 and 2010, as well as a 200 million-euro guarantee. The
government, which this year also had to partially nationalize
 Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , already wrote 700 million euros
off the aid for Hypo Alpe.  Kranebitter’s restructuring plan still requires approval by
the European Commission, which is reviewing whether Austria’s
takeover and capital injections complied with European Union
state aid rules.  Hypo Alpe’s biggest unit consists of banks in  Croatia ,
 Serbia , Montenegro, Slovenia and  Bosnia and Herzegovina . In this
region, Hypo Alpe has said it is the third-biggest lender by
assets after  Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Slovenia’s Nova
Ljubljanska Banka DD.  The bank’s bad debt charge fell to 229.8 million euros from
1.2 billion euros a year earlier, when Hypo Alpe reviewed its
loan book. The lender had 9.3 billion euros in non-performing
loans in December compared with 9 billion euros the year before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  