-- Zurich Says Board Will Propose Ackermann as Chairman
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-03-13T18:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/zurich-financial-board-to-propose-josef-ackermann-as-chairman.html
Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) ,
Switzerland’s biggest insurer, said its board of directors will
propose  Josef Ackermann  as chairman when he steps down as chief
executive officer of  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   The board is proposing Ackermann, currently vice chairman,
for the job after the company’s March 29 annual shareholder
meeting, Zurich Financial said today in a statement on its
website. Tom de Swaan will be proposed as vice chairman of the
board, according to the statement.  Ackermann, 64, is stepping down as CEO of Deutsche Bank at
the end of May after a decade in which he transformed the firm
into an international investment bank. Taking on the role at
Zurich Financial comes after he dropped plans to head the
supervisory board of  Germany ’s biggest bank in November after
his efforts to help policy makers solve  Europe ’s debt crisis
didn’t give him the time needed to win shareholder support.  “Ackermann is Swiss and well connected in the financial
world, so it’s a good solution,” said  Roland Pfaender , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , who recommends
investors hold Zurich Financial stock. “It’s been speculated
for some time that he’ll take over, so it’s not a big
surprise.”  Zurich Financial’s vice chairman will manage the transition
period following the retirement of chairman Manfred Gentz,
according to the statement.  Swiss newspaper Finanz und Wirtschaft, citing unidentified
people in the Swiss insurance industry, reported Nov. 19 that
Ackermann might become chairman of Zurich Financial.  Contract Extension  The Swiss company said last month it would suggest
Ackermann’s contract be extended beyond 2012 and that the board
would communicate its planned structure as well as the name of
the proposed chairman before the shareholder meeting.  Ackermann has said that he could accept a future role at a
company other than Deutsche Bank while remaining in his current
post through May.  Deutsche Bank said in November that it will instead
nominate  Paul Achleitner , the finance chief of Munich-based
insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , as supervisory board chairman. Ackermann
will be succeeded as CEO by management board member Juergen Fitschen and investment bank chief Anshu Jain, who will share
the role.  Zurich Financial said last month that it will keep the
dividend unchanged after increasing the 2010 payout to an 11-
year high of 17 Swiss francs ($18.45) per share. The company
said Feb. 15 that it will suggest changing its name to Zurich
Insurance Group Ltd. at the shareholder meeting this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  