-- Zynga Is Said to Plan New Offering to Avoid Lockup Selloff
-- B y   J o n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-03-14T14:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-13/zynga-said-to-plan-secondary-offering-to-avoid-lock-up-selloff.html
(Corrects spelling of Menlow’s name in fourth paragraph of
story published March 13.)  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the social-gaming
company that held its initial public offering in December, is
planning an additional offering of shares, three people familiar
with the matter said.  The move is designed to let investors sell some stock while
getting large shareholders to agree to a longer “lockup”
period that keeps them from unloading shares, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the plan is private.  Zynga (ZNGA) 
isn’t issuing new stock in the offering, two of the people said.  The San Francisco-based company is trying to avoid the fate
of  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , which saw its stock drop following the
expiration of its lockup period in November, said two of the
people. Company insiders are typically forbidden from unloading
shares for six months after an IPO, in part to keep sell orders
from flooding the market. Zynga’s new offering will be held
before its lockup ends in June, said two of the people.  “They may be fearful of what’s going to happen in June,”
said  David Menlow , president of Green Brook, New Jersey-based
IPOfinancial.com, a research firm focused on stock offerings.  In a secondary offering, venture-capital backers and other
shorter-term investors typically sell stock to long-term
shareholders such as investment banks -- on the condition they
agree to a longer lockup, said Carter Mack, president of San
Francisco-based investment bank  JMP Group Inc.   Getting Paid  “Zynga probably does not need to raise any additional
capital,” Mack, whose firm doesn’t have a relationship with
Zynga, said in a televised interview on “Bloomberg West.”
“This is a way to offer their existing shareholders a chance to
get liquidity on the stock.”  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for Zynga, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation.  When it went public, Zynga sold about 14 percent of shares.
While that’s a lower amount than in the typical IPO, other
Internet companies offered an even smaller portion in their
stock debuts last year. The amount of shares floated in the IPOs
of LinkedIn, Groupon Inc. and Pandora Media Inc. were all below
10 percent, a strategy that helps protect the value of existing
investors’ stakes.  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN) , which began trading in July,
also held an additional offering for some of its shareholders.
Michael Kors Holdings Ltd., the luxury-goods maker which held a
December IPO, filed for a secondary offering last week.  “It’s the right thing to do to allow some of the insiders
to have a liquidity event, hopefully without disrupting the
market,” said  Arvind Bhatia , an analyst at Sterne, Agee & Leach
Inc. in  Dallas . He has an underperform rating on shares of
Zynga, which he doesn’t own.  Zynga gets most of its revenue from users of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
which is planning its own IPO. That company, the world’s largest
social-networking service, filed last month to raise $5 billion
in its offering.  Zynga fell 2.8 percent to $13.38 at the close in  New York .
The shares have climbed 42 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jon Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  