-- Adidas Sees Imminent Soccer Boost as World Cup Build-Up Begins
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-11-07T12:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/adidas-quarterly-profit-drops-on-western-europe-north-america.html
Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-biggest
sporting-goods maker, said the build-up to next year’s soccer
World Cup in  Brazil  will boost revenue from the current quarter
as it starts selling team jerseys and the official match ball.  Sales related to the event will help “a lot” in the
fourth quarter, Chief Executive Officer Herbert Hainer said
today on a conference call after Adidas reported estimate-beating third-quarter profitability.  Federation jerseys including  Germany , world champion Spain
and Argentina will be released next week and the match ball in
December, Hainer said. A Samba range of brightly colored
footwear to be worn this weekend by players including
Barcelona’s Lionel Messi and Real Madrid’s Gareth Bale went on
sale yesterday. The CEO has forecast that soccer sales will rise
to a record 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) next year.  Adidas gained as much as 3 percent in  Frankfurt  today after
the company’s third-quarter report eased concern over earnings
following September’s reduced profit forecast. The gross margin,
the percentage of sales left after production costs, widened to
49.3 percent from 47.4 percent a year earlier, Herzogenaurach,
Germany-based Adidas said. Analysts had forecast 48.1 percent.  The gross profit margin was “surprisingly good,” said
Herbert Sturm, an analyst at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt. “Third-quarter numbers showed no more negative surprises. We expect a
series of positive newsflow in the next months.”  Adidas  shares  were up 3.4 percent at 86.23 euros at 12:58
p.m. They have risen 28 percent this year compared with a 49
percent increase for larger competitor Nike Inc.  Golf, Russia  In addition to the initial boost to soccer sales from World
Cup merchandise, Hainer said he expects a “solid” fourth
quarter for the company’s TaylorMade-Adidas golf business.  A weak golf market was one of the reasons given by Adidas
for reducing its 2013 profit forecast in September, with the
euro’s strength and disruptions related to a switchover to a new
Russian distribution site also being cited at the time.  Adidas is “making good progress on returning shipping
quantities back to normal levels” in  Russia , the CEO said.  The company has been pushing running and fitness products
this year because of the lack of a major soccer event that
usually provides a boost to annual profit. It’s shaking up
management at Reebok to revamp the fitness brand, which has
weighed on growth since the German company acquired it in 2006.
Reebok will grow for the year as a whole, Hainer said today.  Third-quarter net income fell about 8 percent to 316
million euros ($427 million), in line with the 316.9 million-euro  average  of 11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Very Confident’  Golf revenue declined 16 percent in the quarter on a
currency-neutral basis, while  Reebok  sales advanced 5 percent,
Adidas said. Total revenue dropped 6 percent in western Europe
because of “macroeconomic challenges” and 5 percent in North
America because of declining demand for golf products.  The sporting-goods maker is “very confident” for western
Europe next year, Hainer said on the call.  Adidas reiterated today that it expects net income of 820
million euros to 850 million euros this year, with the operating
margin widening to 8.5 percent from 8 percent.  The company said last month it is on track to reach a
target of 17 billion euros in annual revenue in 2015. Nike,
based in Beaverton,  Oregon , said in October it will have $30
billion in annual revenue by the end of its fiscal year 2015.  Third-quarter sales declined 7 percent to 3.88 billion
euros, just below the 3.91 billion-euro average estimate of 18
analysts. On a currency-adjusted basis, revenue was stable,
Adidas said.  The weakness of currencies including the Japanese yen,
Brazilian real and Russian ruble against the euro wiped 500
million euros off revenue in the first nine months of 2013,
Adidas said. The company’s euro hedging rate for 2013 is 1.32
compared with 1.35 to 1.36 in 2012, Chief Financial Officer
Robin Stalker told journalists today. Adidas is hedging its
purchasing and is not hedging revenue, Stalker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  