-- Madoff Yelled About Aide Who Knew Everything: Secretary
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-11-07T21:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/madoff-yelled-about-aide-who-knew-everything-secretary.html
Bernard Madoff’s former secretary
told a jury she heard the con man shout at his brother  Peter Madoff  in an argument about a top aide now accused of assisting
his fraud, saying the man “knows how everything works.”  The conversation about Daniel Bonventre, one of five former
employees on trial for allegedly aiding Madoff’s $17 billion
 Ponzi scheme , ended with Madoff telling his brother to mind his
own business, using an expletive, Eleanor Squillari testified
today in federal court in  Manhattan . Squillari was Madoff’s
receptionist and personal assistant from 1984 until his 2008
arrest.  The five former employees are accused of helping Madoff
hide his fraud from customers and regulators for years, and
getting rich in the process. It’s the first criminal trial
stemming from the scheme in Madoff’s investment-advisory
business, which prosecutors say started in the early 1970s and
imploded at the peak of the financial crisis.  Bonventre, who oversaw the broker-dealer and proprietary
trading operations of Madoff’s company, where real trading took
place, has denied involvement in the fraud and says he was duped
like thousands of others.  Bonventre’s lawyer, Andrew Frisch, asked Squillari during
cross examination if she knew exactly what  Bernard Madoff  and
his brother were discussing when they argued about Bonventre.
She said no. She agreed the fight could have been about trading
operations or something else related to the job.  Other Defendants  The other defendants in the case, all accused of helping
make fake documents for decades, are Annette Bongiorno, who
worked for Madoff for 40 years and ran the investment advisory
business; Joann Crupi, who managed large accounts; and computer
programmers George Perez and Jerome O’Hara. All five have
pleaded not guilty.  In a ruling outside the presence of the jury, U.S. District
Judge Laura Taylor Swain this week granted the defense’s request
that Squillari be barred from testifying that O’Hara and Perez
looked “smug” when they left a private meeting with Madoff
around 2006. Defense lawyers said it was unfair speculation,
while prosecutors said it was “central” to their case alleging
the men extorted Madoff to assist his fraud.  O’Hara and Perez, who joined Madoff’s firm in the 1990s,
acknowledged that a “dramatic meeting” with Madoff took place
in 2006, according to their lawyers’ Oct. 17 opening statements
to the jury. The men claim that they arranged the encounter to
challenge Madoff’s request for computer code they believed might
be abused, and that they were “extremely nervous” about
confronting him and being fired.  JPMorgan Account  Mark Doctoroff, a former  executive director  at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  who acted as the relationship manager for Madoff’s
securities firm from about February 2008 until it closed,
testified today he was unaware at the time that Madoff had a
formal investment advisory unit or that Madoff’s JPMorgan bank
account was used for that business.  Doctoroff, who left New York-based JPMorgan last year, said
Bonventre asked the bank in November 2008, less than a month
before Madoff’s arrest, if Madoff’s firm could borrow $200
million secured by  U.S. Treasuries , even though Madoff’s credit
limit for such loans was $100 million.  “They are doing well financially,” Doctoroff said in a
Nov. 17, 2008, internal e-mail to the bank’s credit department
about the request, which he said should be granted. The e-mail
was displayed on flat-screen monitors for the jury.  “They are looking at the current market as an opportunity
to make investments, true to their value investing style,”
Doctoroff said in the e-mail. “Told Dan you would call him back
if a problem, or let me know and I will -- but think we should
process.”  The loan was never processed.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  