-- Lady Gaga Gets Serious at Disco With Crazed ‘Artpop’ CD
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-11-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/lady-gaga-gets-serious-at-disco-with-crazed-artpop-cd.html
Lady Gaga’s “Artpop” has serious
artistic pretentions, right from the album’s title and cover: a
Jeff Koons statue of the star with a Botticelli montage.  Gaga has described the album as “a celebration and a
poetic musical journey.” Yeah, right.  Well, at least “Artpop” -- out on Nov. 11 and already
leaked online -- is more ambitious than its predecessors.  Rihanna, watch out: She’s trying hip-hop. Beyonce, beware:
Gaga’s ripping off R&B. She’s even got soul in a duet with R. Kelly, “Do What U Want.”  For all that, the hour-long collection stays mainly in the
electronic-dance overdrive mode of the crazed opener “Aura.”  The only respite from disco is a piano ballad, “Dope.”
This Rick Rubin-produced track shows, at the very least, that
Gaga can out-sing Madonna. While that may not be saying much,
she’s grabbed Madonna’s glitter ball, too -- a necessary cover-up for that naked Koons statue.  Lady Gaga is still fascinated by celebrity, the fame
monster she’s created, and above all, herself. She asks at the
start, “Do you want to see the girl behind the aura?”  Assuming you do, some slick melodies follow, though few are
as memorable and catchy as previous hits such as “Just Dance.”  Rating: ***.  “Artpop” is released on Nov. 11 on Interscope priced
$11.99. An international deluxe edition is also available on
Nov. 19. Information:  http://www.ladygaga.com/news   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Catherine Hickley  on German art,
 Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology,  Amanda
Gordon ’s Scene Last Night and  Katya Kazakina  on art auctions.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 