-- Affymetrix, Mondelez, Tyler, Uinta: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-11-07T03:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/affymetrix-mondelez-tyler-uinta-intellectual-property.html
Affymetrix Inc. and  Life Technologies
Corp. (LIFE) ’s Navigenics unit didn’t infringe a patent owned by
 Massachusetts  Institute of Technology and E8 Pharmaceuticals LLC
over a system to analyze genes, the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit said yesterday.  The court, in a one-paragraph  decision , said it based its
finding on its agreement with the trial judge’s interpretation
of a key phrasing of the patent.  The case was filed in federal court in  Boston  in July 2008
by the school and its licensee, E8 Pharmaceuticals LLC of
Cambridge. E8 was founded by two MIT professors, one of which is
a named inventor of the disputed patent.  MIT and E8 accused the two companies of infringing patent
6,703,228, which was issued in March 2004.  The patent covered methods and products related to
genotyping and DNA. According to court papers, Santa Clara,
California-based Affymetrix and MIT had disputed which entity
was first to invent the technology covered by the patent. In
2007 the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office said the MIT
scientists had invented the technology before Affymetrix.  The lower-court case is E8 Pharmaceuticals LLC v.
 Affymetrix Inc. (AFFX) , 1:08-cv-11132, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  The appeal is E8 Pharmaceuticals v. Affymetrix Inc,
13-1046, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Mondelez Unit Wins Temporary Order Protecting ‘Choclairs’ Mark  Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) , the Deerfield, Illinois-based
food and beverage company, was granted its request that an
Indian court bar Lotte Group’s Lotte Confectionery unit’s use of
“Choclairs,” Confectionery News  reported .  The Illinois company’s Cadbury  India  unit had claimed
Seoul-based Lotte’s use of the term infringed its trademark,
according to Confectionery News.  Delhi’s High Court has issued a temporary order barring
Lotte from selling products similar to Cadbury’s Choclairs for
the duration of the case.  Cadbury rebranded its Eclairs as Cadbury Choclairs in June,
and told Confectionery News the company expects to prevail over
Lotte.  Tyler Technologies Sued by TexasFile Over Internet Domain Name  Tyler Technologies Inc., a Dallas-based provider of
information management services for local governments, was sued
for trademark infringement by a company that provides online
access to  Texas  county records.  According to the  suit filed Oct. 30 in federal court in
Sherman, Texas, TexasFile LLC objects to the “TexFile.com”
Internet domain name used by Tyler. TexasFile has used its
TexasFile.com domain name since 2004, and its TexasFile logo
since 2006.  Franco, Texas-based TexasFile says the public is confused
by the similarity in the domain names. The confusion will get
worse after January 2014, according to the complaint, when
electronic court filing goes live in the state of Texas. A
number of county websites already link directly to Tyler’s
TexFile.com, TexasFile said in its pleadings.  TexasFile asked the court to order Tyler to quit using
TexFile.com, and for awards of money damages, including Typer’s
profits attributable to the alleged infringement, attorney fees
and litigation costs.  Tyler didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is TexasFile LLC V.  Tyler Technologies Inc. (TYL) , 4:13-cv-00635, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Sherman).  Vagabond Skor Wins Indian Trademark Dispute With Italian Company  Vagabond Skor Varberg AB , a Swedish manufacturer of shoes
and sportswear, has prevailed in a trademark dispute in India
against an Italian company with a similar name, India’s Business
Standard  reported .  The Swedish company’s Indian trademark registration was
opposed by Italy’s Vagabond SpA, which claimed it already
registered the “Vagabond” mark for clothing in India,
according to the Business Standard.  Vagabond Skor argued that the Italian company never used
the mark in India, Business Standard reported.  India’s Intellectual Property Appellate Board ruled in the
Swedish company’s favor after the Italian company failed to
appear for the hearing of file any papers countering Vagabond
Skor, according to the newspaper.  Uinta Brewing Changes Beer Name After Notch’s Trademark Claim  Uinta Brewing Co. , a specialty brewer based in Salt Lake
City,  Utah , has agreed to change the name of one of its beers
after receiving a request from a Massachusetts brewer, the
Brewbound brewery news website  reported .  Notch Brewing Co.  of Ipswich, Massachusetts, had claimed
that Uinta’s “ Top Notch ” beer was infringing its “Notch”
trademark, according to Brewbound.  Uinta said that while it will change the name to “Hop
Nosh,” it will retain the label imagery of farmers loading a
wagon with hops, Brewbound reported.  The Utah company has also abandoned its pending application
for the “Hop Notch” trademark, according to the website.  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Ropes & Gray Hires Patent Litigation Andrew N. Thomases  Ropes & Gray LLP hired  Andrew N. Thomases  for its IP
practice group, the Boston-based firm said in a  statement .  Thomases was previously a partner at New York’s  Skadden
Arps Slate Meagher and Flom LLP . He has represented clients in
federal trial and appellate courts and before the U.S.
International Trade commission.  His clients have included companies with interests in
semiconductors, computers, analog circuits, wireless products
and medical devices.  Thomases served as a judicial clerk for Judge Raymond
Clevenger III of The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit, the Washington-based court that hears appeals of patent
cases.  He has an undergraduate degree in physics from Amherst
College and a law degree from the University of Chicago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  