-- Taiwanese Bonds Advance as Slowing Economy Deters Risk-Taking
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-11-07T08:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/taiwanese-bonds-advance-as-slowing-economy-deters-risk-taking.html
Taiwan ’s bonds rose, pushing the
five-year yield to a one-week low, as more evidence the island’s
economy is slowing bolstered demand for the relative safety of
government debt.  Exports, which account for about three-quarters of Taiwan’s
economy, fell 1.5 percent in October from a year earlier, data
showed today, more than the 1 percent decline forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Taiwan Power, the island’s
biggest electricity provider, sold three-year debt at 1.24
percent yesterday, less than 1.35 percent in August, in a
NT$11.8 billion ($401 million) offering of various tenors.  “There are more signs now that Taiwan’s economy hasn’t
bottomed out,” said Daniel Wu, a Taipei-based bond trader at
EnTie Commercial Bank. “Taiwan Power’s bond sale results
yesterday also showed demand from investors, which supported
 government bonds .”  The yield on the 1.25 percent notes due October 2018 fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.11 percent,
according to Gretai Securities Market. That’s the biggest drop
since Oct. 30 and the lowest level since Oct. 31.  The drop in exports in October follows a 7 percent decline
in September. Taiwan’s economy grew at the slowest pace in a
year in the third quarter, data showed last week.  Taiwan Dollar  Taiwan signed a free-trade agreement with  Singapore  today,
its biggest trade deal with a country that has diplomatic ties
with Beijing. The agreement covers trade in goods and services,
investment and government procurement, according to the Ministry
of Economic Affairs.  Taiwan’s dollar was little changed at NT$29.485 against the
greenback, prices from Taipei Forex Inc. show. The currency lost
0.2 percent in the final 16 minutes of trading amid suspected
central bank intervention. The monetary authority has sold the
local dollar in the run-up to the close on most days since March
2012, according to traders who asked not to be identified.  One-month non-deliverable forwards were little changed at
NT$29.395 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, decreased six basis points
to 3.1 percent.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was steady at 0.385
percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  