-- Malaysia Holds Key Rate as Growth Support Trumps Price Pressures
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-11-07T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/malaysia-holds-key-rate-as-growth-support-trumps-price-pressures.html
Malaysia held its benchmark  interest
rate  for a 15th straight meeting to support economic growth even
as inflationary pressures rise after cuts to state fuel and
sugar subsidies.  Bank Negara Malaysia  maintained the  overnight policy rate 
at 3 percent, the central bank said in a statement in Kuala
Lumpur today. The outcome was predicted by all 20 economists
 surveyed  by  Bloomberg News . It is the last scheduled rate
decision for 2013.  Prime Minister Najib Razak scrapped sugar subsidies last
month after raising gasoline prices in September as he focuses
on improving government finances to avert a credit rating
downgrade. Inflation accelerated to a 20-month high in September,
adding pressure on the central bank to curb price gains while
supporting economic growth.  “With fiscal policy becoming less expansionary, and macro-prudential measures sapping credit growth, we doubt  Bank Negara 
will rush to increase the overnight rate,” Santitarn Sathirathai,
an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Singapore , said before
the decision.  The ringgit is the best performer against the  U.S. dollar 
this quarter among  Asia ’s 11 most-active currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, paring its losses for 2013 to 3.8 percent. It was
little changed at 3.1813 as of 6:15 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur.  The economy may expand 5 percent to 5.5 percent in 2014
from an estimated 4.5 percent to 5 percent this year, the
government said last month.  Consumer prices  rose 2.6 percent in
September from a year earlier, compared with a 1.9 percent gain
in August. Inflation is projected by the government to average 2
percent to 3 percent in 2014.  Edging Up  “Looking ahead, inflation is expected to edge up driven by
domestic cost factors,” the central bank said today. “However,
the inflation outlook is expected to be tempered by a stable
external price environment, moderate domestic demand pressures,
expansion in domestic capacity and improvements in food
production and distribution.”  Central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said in October that
over the next six months to a year, she would focus “mostly on
growth” rather than inflation, because global expansion will
remain “subdued.” Inflation is stable as “demand is on a steady
growth path and we have significant expansion of capacity,” she
said in an Oct. 12 interview.  “In the Monetary Policy Committee’s assessment, there
continue to be uncertainties in the balance of risks surrounding
the outlook for domestic growth and inflation,” the central bank
said in its statement. “The MPC will continue to carefully
assess the global and domestic economic and financial
developments and their implications on the overall outlook for
inflation and growth of the Malaysian economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  