-- Alcoa CEO Calls Aluminum Unavailability Claims a ‘Myth’
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-11-07T22:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/alcoa-ceo-calls-aluminum-unavailability-claims-a-myth-.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum
maker, said claims by some consumers that the metal is
unavailable are incorrect.  The claims are “a total myth,” Chief Executive Officer
Klaus Kleinfeld said today in a presentation to investors in
 Cleveland ,  Ohio . None of its customers have stated to Alcoa that
they have a shortage of metal supply, he said.  The London Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest industrial-metals marketplace, said today it changed its rules to speed up
withdrawals from warehoused stockpiles amid scrutiny from U.S
regulators. Beverage maker MillerCoors LLC, a SABMiller Plc and
Molson Coors Brewing Co. venture, said at a U.S. Senate
subcommittee hearing in July that banks and other warehouse
owners are manipulating aluminum supplies and slowing deliveries
to boost prices.  “Alcoa encourages the LME to focus on increasing
confidence among market participants through greater
transparency and premium contracts, and cautions against direct
market intervention,” the New York-based company said in a
statement today. The LME should provide a clear timeline for the
implementation of changes, it said.  Alcoa has cut output in  Canada , the U.S. and  Brazil  as the
company seeks to reduce costs amid a 12 percent decline this
year in aluminum prices. Kleinfeld is closing high-cost smelters
and focusing investment on so-called downstream divisions.  The shares  dropped  7.4 percent at the close in New York to
$8.95, the biggest decline since Aug. 8, 2011. The shares have
risen 3.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  