-- Aldar Third-Quarter Profit Surges After Writedown Isn’t Repeated
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-11-07T09:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/aldar-says-third-quarter-profit-doubles-on-land-sale-revenue.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , Abu Dhabi’s
biggest  developer  said third-quarter profit almost after year
earlier provisions and writedowns weren’t repeated.  Net income rose to 407.5 million dirhams ($111 million), or
5 fils a share, from 205.7 million, or 5 fils, a year earlier,
the company said in a statement today. Revenue dropped 27
percent to 1.17 billion dirhams, while general and
administrative costs more than doubled to 73.1 million dirhams.  Aldar, which bought competitor Sorouh Real Estate Co. in
June, has 11.3 billion dirhams of debt maturing in the next 12
months, Chief Financial Officer Greg Fewer said on a conference
call today. The company has 6.3 billion dirhams of cash and
available liquidity and its evaluating options for the
refinancing of some debt, the CFO said.  The company said today it secured two loans totaling 4
billion dirhams at an average margin of 1.3 percent above base-rate and average maturity of 3 1/2 years. The facilities  will
be used for refinancing, it said.  Aldar fell as much as 2.2 percent in  Abu Dhabi  trading and
was down 1.5 percent at 2.67 dirhams as of 12:43 p.m. The stock
has more than doubled this year.  Recurring revenue, generated by hotels, shops and home and
office leases, climbed 54 percent to 471 million dirhams in the
third quarter as Aldar benefited from the inclusion of Sorouh’s
assets, the company said.  Improved Ratings  Aldar, which is central to Abu Dhabi’s efforts to transform
itself into a business and tourism hub, suffered losses that led
to more than $9.8 billion in government bailouts when the credit
crisis caused the emirate’s property market to crash. The
developer was recently upgraded by Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s , both citing recurring income and steady
payments from the government.  The developer is targeting a loan-to-value ratio of 35
percent to 40 percent measured against its investment properties
by 2015, the CFO said. Aldar will receive 8.1 billion dirhams of
contracted payments from the government which it will use to
reduce its debt, Fewer said.  “We are now seeing greater stability as market
fundamentals continue to improve,” Aldar Chairman Abubakr Seddiq Al Khouri said in the statement. “Aldar will benefit
from this trend and the solid growth fundamentals of the Abu
Dhabi economy as it hands over more than 7,000 units to
customers during the next 12 months,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 