-- Hall of Famers Dorsett, DeLamielleure Show CTE Signs, ESPN Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-11-07T17:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/hall-of-famers-dorsett-delamielleure-show-cte-signs-espn-says.html
Pro Football Hall of Fame players
Tony Dorsett and Joe DeLamielleure have been diagnosed with
evidence of a progressive brain disease caused by head trauma
and linked to dementia, according to ESPN.  The brains of Dorsett, DeLamielleure and former  New York 
Giants defensive end Leonard Marshall all show signs of chronic
traumatic encephalopathy, or CTE, which can cause mood swings,
depression, loss of memory and increased irritability, ESPN
reported today. The trio had brain scans and evaluations this
year at the  University of California, Los Angeles , according to
the report, which cited unidentified doctors familiar with the
results.  Dorsett rushed for 12,739 yards and 77 touchdowns in a 12-year National Football League career spent mostly with the
Dallas Cowboys. The 1976 Heisman Trophy winner as college
football’s top player told ESPN that he sometimes forgets where
he’s driving and is prone to outbursts at his wife and
daughters.  “It’s painful, man, for my daughters to say they’re scared
of me,” Dorsett, 59, said. “It’s painful.  CTE causes abnormal, small tangles of a protein in the
brain, and may include extensive cell death and shrinkage of the
brain. It was first described in studies of boxers who developed
dementia and symptoms resembling Parkinson’s disease.  The NFL reached a $765 million settlement this year with
more than 5,000 former players seeking damages for head
injuries. The money will help cover medical monitoring and fund
research on concussions, according to the agreement.  DeLamielleure, 62, played 13 seasons as an offensive tackle
with the Buffalo Bills and the Cleveland Browns. Marshall, 52,
won Super Bowl titles with the Giants after the 1986 and 1990
seasons.  Autopsies of more than 50 former NFL players have found
evidence of CTE, including those of Hall of Fame center Mike Webster and 12-time Pro Bowl linebacker Junior Seau, who
committed suicide last year at age 43. UCLA tested five other
former NFL players in 2012 and found evidence of CTE in all
five, the first time the disease was detected in living players,
the report said.  -- Editors: Larry Siddons, Michael Sillup  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  