-- Aluminum Industry Hurt by EU Climate Rules, Study Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-11-07T10:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/aluminum-industry-hurt-by-eu-climate-rules-study-shows.html
European Union regulation, including
carbon and renewable-energy policies, reduced the profitability
of the bloc’s aluminum smelters, according to a study by the
Centre for European Policy Studies.  The expenses associated with meeting European laws
accounted for an average of 8 percent of total production costs
for the industry over the 2002-2012 period, CEPS said in the
 analysis , published today in Brussels. The price of power,
boosted by costs linked to  carbon emissions  passed on by
utilities, and surcharges to support renewable energy imposed a
significant burden on the industry, according to the study.  “The analysis of cost differentials with the least cost
producers -- primary aluminum smelters in the  Middle East  --
shows that EU regulatory costs represented about one-third of
this competitive gap in 2012,” according to the study, prepared
for the EU as a part of its fitness check on the aluminum
industry.  European requirements affected the profitability of the
industry not only in time of crisis but also in boom years,
according to CEPS. EU aluminum smelters are a part of the bloc’s
Emissions Trading System, in which polluters’ discharges are
subject to a decreasing cap. The industry gets a bigger share of
free carbon permits to meet its quota as a part of protection
against relocating production to regions without emission curbs.  Carbon Policies  The assessment highlights the difference between EU-based
smelters that are still shielded from the cost of carbon
policies thanks to long-term contracts negotiated before the
ETS, and those that are fully exposed to the bloc’s electricity
market and the carbon cap-and-trade program, according to the
European Aluminium Association, or EAA.  “The latter have become the least competitive smelters in
the world and face extra costs of up to 228 euros ($308) per ton
of aluminum produced, i.e. 11 percent of total production costs,
including raw materials,” EAA Director General Gerd Goetz said
in a statement today in Brussels.  The EAA called on the European Commission, the EU
executive, to ensure competitive energy prices through sound
energy, climate and industrial policies. The 28-nation bloc
started earlier this year a debate about its 2030 framework for
energy and climate and is considering strengthening the ETS
after carbon prices fell to a record low of 2.46 euros in April.  The CEPS analysis draws on a sample of 11 primary aluminum
plants, representing 60 percent of the total EU primary aluminum
production in 2012. As it focuses only on the cost side of EU
rules, the benefits of operating in the bloc, including
proximity to high-added-value customers, should be borne in mind
when analysing it, CEPS said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  