-- Apollo to KKR Seek Australian IPOs as Memory of Myer Fades
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-11-08T07:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/apollo-to-kkr-seek-australian-ipos-as-memory-of-myer-flop-fades.html
For the last four years, private-equity firms have taken few of their Australian companies
public. The main culprit: a lackluster initial public offering
by the country’s largest department-store chain that soured
investors.  Now there are signs the freeze is over. In October,  OzForex
Group Ltd. (OFX) , an online currency broker whose owners include U.S.
buyout firms  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and  Accel Partners , jumped 28
percent on its debut. It was the biggest first-day gain for any
Australian IPO of at least $100 million in more than six years,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  And in the next six months, IPOs of buyout-backed companies
may raise as much as A$2.5 billion ($2.4 billion), more than the
total amount of first-time sales in  Australia  over the past two
years. The deals are part of a worldwide revival in initial
offerings, more than five years after the peak of a buyout boom
that ended with the financial crisis. The trend reflects stock-market gains and the need for firms to return money to partners.  “Investors are now chasing performance again and they are
much more open to IPOs,” said Roger Feletto, co-chief executive
officer of advisory firm Greenhill & Co.’s Australian unit in
Sydney. “This includes assets owned by financial sponsors,
which is a contrast” to previous years.  The biggest test will come next month, when Oaktree Capital
Management LP and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  seek to complete
Australia’s largest IPO in almost three years, a A$697.3 million
offering by broadcaster Nine Entertainment Co. By year-end,  KKR
& Co. (KKR)  plans to take mining logistics company BIS Industries Ltd.
public in an offering that may raise as much as A$500 million,
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Aussie Drought  The Australian drought started after the November 2009
share sale of retailer  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  by private-equity
firms TPG Capital and Blum Capital. While the investment in the
chain generated a $1.3 billion profit for  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG, according to a person with knowledge of the matter,
IPO buyers were less fortunate:  Myer’s stock  has never traded
above its A$4.10 offer price.  In 2010, there was only one Australian share sale by a
buyout firm -- mining services firm  Mastermyne Group Ltd. (MYE) , part-owned by Champ Private Equity, which raised A$40 million, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Two companies backed by private-equity firms went public in the following two years, according
to data from the Australian Private Equity and Venture Capital
Association.  One of them was  Collins Foods Ltd. (CKF) , which went public in
August 2011 as Pacific Equity Partners sold its entire stake in
a A$202 million IPO. Three months after that share sale, the
company cut its profit forecast by a fifth. The stock is down 35
percent from its IPO price.  Banked-Up Reservoir  Still, the skeptical sentiment is changing as Australia’s
benchmark stock index nears a  five-year high .  Private-equity firms are also under pressure to return
money to their investors. They’ve been holding assets for almost
six years on average, up from four years prior to the 2008
financial crash, London-based research firm Preqin Ltd.
estimates.  “There is a banked-up reservoir of private-equity exits
that ideally should have happened before now, but until now the
markets haven’t been conducive,” said John O’Sullivan, vice
chairman of  investment banking  at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Sydney.  Sales by private-equity firms account for 40 percent of the
$1.8 billion raised in Australian IPOs this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hilton Offering  In the U.S., the number of IPOs through Oct. 31 has
increased to 170, raising $44 billion, compared with 118 and $38
billion from the same period in 2012, the data show. Hilton
Worldwide Holdings Inc., the hotels operator owned by Blackstone
Group LP, filed in September to raise $1.25 billion in an IPO.  In the U.K., where offering proceeds have almost tripled
this year, Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. and Permira
Advisers LLP are seeking to exit investments through first-time
sales.  Some skittishness remains about buyout-firm IPOs, so in
certain offerings owners are keeping shares in companies to
reassure investors, said Simon Cox, head of  equity capital
markets  for Australia at UBS AG.  Holding Shares  Apollo and Oaktree will keep stakes in Nine Entertainment
after it goes public, according to a share-sale prospectus.
Pacific Equity Partners plans to keep all its shares in Veda
Group, a provider of consumer and corporate credit data, after a
sale of about A$340 million scheduled for this year, people
familiar with the offering said. KKR will retain a stake in BIS
Industries, people familiar with the matter said Nov. 4.  “Among some investors, there’s a degree of nervousness
about buying companies out of private-equity ownership,
sometimes due to the history of earnings or putting too much
leverage into the businesses,” Cox said.  Even so, IPOs by OzForex and  Virtus Health Ltd. (VRT) , an
operator of fertility clinics, drew enough demand to allow
owners Carlyle, Accel Partners and Quadrant Private Equity Pty
to exit their investments completely, said people with knowledge
of the matter. The OzForex offering was seven times
oversubscribed, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter. The stock remains  28 percent above  its offering price.  Virtus sold shares at the top end of a marketed range as
doctors who run the business kept a large stake. The stock is up
52 percent since its June IPO.  “People do remember the cases like Myer, but the best
thing that can happen is having more successful sponsor-backed
IPOs come to market,” said Shannon Finch, a partner
specializing in equity capital markets at King & Wood Mallesons
in Sydney, whose firm worked on the Virtus IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  