-- Apollo Third-Quarter Profit Rises 39% as Holdings Advance
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-11-07T21:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/apollo-third-quarter-profit-rises-39-as-holdings-advance.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , said third-quarter profit
rose 39 percent as it sold assets and fund holdings climbed. The
shares fell the most in more than two months as executives
addressed analysts’ questions regarding deal activity.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of earnings
excluding some compensation costs tied to Apollo’s 2011 initial
public offering, increased to $528.6 million, or $1.34 a share,
from $379 million, or 98 cents, a year earlier, New York-based
Apollo said today in a statement. Analysts had expected profit
of 93 cents a share, according to the average of 15  estimates  in
a Bloomberg survey.  Apollo, among the most active buyout firms in exiting
investments as markets have risen, sold at least eight blocks of
shares in companies during the quarter, reaping more than $4
billion in proceeds, regulatory filings show. Its buyout
portfolio appreciated 18 percent in the quarter, fueling paper
profits. Earnings from the firm’s credit business declined 60
percent, and its real estate unit had a loss as expenses rose.  “It’s clearly a less good deployment environment,” Marc Spilker, Apollo’s president, said on a conference call today
with analysts and investors in response to questions about
whether the firm is doing deals as often as it’s exiting stakes.
“Having said that, things are going to change in the world. The
deployment cycle has always been very lumpy quarter to quarter,
year to year.”  Shares Decline  Apollo fell 4.5 percent, the most since Aug. 22, to close
at $32 in  New York . The stock has gained 84 percent this year,
outpacing the 23 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of large U.S. companies.  The 18 percent appreciation in Apollo’s buyout portfolio
compares with 10 percent at  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , 5.9
percent at KKR & Co., 5 percent at Carlyle Group LP and 4.2
percent at  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)  Carlyle is based in  Washington ,
while the others are headquartered in New York.  Apollo’s economic net income differs from U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. Net income under those
standards, known as GAAP, increased to $192.5 million, or $1.13
a share, from $82.8 million, or 55 cents, a year earlier.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms, which use
debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically charge
an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of
committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments
as a carried interest.  Beyond Buyouts  Apollo, like competitors Blackstone and Carlyle, has sought
investment opportunities outside of traditional leveraged
buyouts to attract more capital and reduce reliance on volatile
private-equity earnings. Carlyle yesterday said third-quarter
profit fell 21 percent as it sold fewer assets than a year
earlier. Blackstone said last month that its profit for the
quarter rose 3 percent as real estate gains offset a decline in
its buyouts business. Both firms, like their peers, report non-GAAP profit that excludes some costs.  Apollo, which is raising its eighth buyout fund, is seeking
permission from investors to increase the limit on the pool to
$17.5 billion in order to meet client demand, three people
familiar with the matter said this week. Apollo initially
planned to limit Apollo Investment Fund VIII, which follows a
$14.7 billion pool raised in 2008, at $15 billion.  The firm raised $3.3 billion for the fund in the third
quarter and has $12 billion in commitments, it said in the
statement.  Lyondell Offerings  Among the firm’s dispositions in the third quarter were two
secondary offerings of  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , the
chemical maker whose debt Apollo started accumulating in 2008.
Apollo swapped the debt for equity following the company’s 2009
bankruptcy and, through sales and dividends, has reaped more
than $7 billion on a $2 billion investment.  When fully exited, the deal is expected to have handed
Apollo more than five times its money and will be its most
profitable investment to date, Spilker said on today’s call.  Apollo’s Athene Holding Ltd. unit last month completed its
acquisition of Aviva Plc’s U.S. insurance business after a 10-month approval process, adding to expected  cash flow  next year,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG. The deal became the subject
of a hearing overseen by Iowa’s insurance commissioner, and New
York’s insurance regulator called for extra scrutiny of the
risks created when investment firms buy insurers.  The Aviva acquisition was completed Oct. 2, after the end
of the third quarter. Apollo’s assets under management would be
$157 billion if the transaction were recorded in third-quarter
results, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  