-- ARM Cement of Kenya Mulls Eurobond Sale to Fund Expansion
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-11-07T06:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/arm-cement-of-kenya-mulls-eurobond-sale-to-fund-expansion-1-.html
ARM Cement Ltd.,  Kenya ’s second-largest maker of the building material, is considering selling
Eurobonds to help fund a planned $300 million expansion program,
Managing Director Pradeep Paunrana said.  The sale of debt will follow the Kenyan government’s
planned offering of as much as $2 billion of the securities by
January, Paunrana said in a Nov. 5 interview in the capital,
Nairobi. The company intends to double cement production within
four years from 2.5 million metric tons in 2012, Deputy Managing
Director Surendra Bhatia said in the interview.  Kenya’s sale of Eurobonds “will set the stage for other
corporates to tap into the Eurobond markets,” Paunrana said.
“That is one of the events we are looking at anxiously as we
plan our own capital raising.”  Production in Kenya’s cement industry, the largest in East
Africa, climbed 3.5 percent to 4.64 million metric tons last
year, according to Kenya National Bureau of Statistics data.
Growth is being driven by government spending on infrastructure
projects like upgrading ports and constructing new roads, as
well as home builders trying to meet an annual deficit of
440,000 units, according to Kestrel Capital East Africa Ltd.  Cement consumption per capita surged 60 percent to 85.7
kilograms (189 pounds) over the past five years, the Nairobi-based brokerage said in a August research note. Demand is
expected to grow at 2.7 times gross domestic product growth over
the next three years, compared with a 2.4-times-GDP increase in
production, Kestrel analyst Linet Muriungi said in the report.
Kestrel has an accumulate rating on the industry.  50-Year Outlook  Consumption per capita in Kenya compares with 300 kilograms
in South Africa and 500 kilograms in  Egypt , Paunrana said.
Kenya’s total consumption is expected to more than double to as
much as 10 million tons within seven years, he said.  “We see the market growing for the next 50 years in this
country,” Paunrana said.  ARM Cement will next year begin construction of a clinker
factory in Kenya at a cost of $250 million to boost its capacity
to 5 million metric tons of cement, Bhatia said. Another $50
million will be spent on other projects, he said.  Clinker is the main ingredient used to make cement and as
much as 45 percent of domestic consumption is met by imports,
Paunrana said. The company expects to complete construction of a
1.2 million-ton plant in Tanga, Tanzania, within five months
that will boost supplies of the material, he said.  The total cost of that project, as well as a grinding plant
that has been in operation since last year in Dar es salaam, the
commercial capital, is $150 million, Paunrana said.  Minerals, Chemicals  ARM also produces industrial minerals, chemicals,
fertilizers and other types of building products, Bhatia said.  Cement sales grew at an annual average rate of 28 percent
over the past 10 years in Kenya, Paunrana said. In the nine
months through September, ARM’s revenue grew 32 percent to 10.2
billion shillings ($120 million), boosting net income in the
period to 1.06 billion shillings from 826.5 million shillings a
year earlier, the company said on Nov. 5.  “We are looking at closing the year higher than that
number,” he said. “We are in a good market, a growing market
where cement consumption is increasing throughout the region.”  Africa Finance Corp. , a Nigeria-based development-finance
institution that gave ARM a $50 million convertible loan in
September 2012, will mostly probably convert the remaining five
years of its funding into 13 percent equity, said Paunrana, who
owns about half of the company’s stock.  In August, ARM’s price estimate at Kestrel Capital was
increased to 77.50 shillings from the 43.4 shillings set in July
2011, while the recommendation was upgraded to accumulate from
buy. Accumulate means investors are advised to buy more shares
during price dips.  ARM’s stock surged 85 percent this year to 82.50 shillings,
outperforming the FTSE NSE 25-Share Index, which has gained 38
percent. The company ranks as Kenya’s biggest cement producer by
market value, after Bamburi Cement Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  