-- AT&T to Pay $3.5 Million to Resolve Claims in FCC Program
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-11-07T17:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/at-t-to-pay-3-5-million-to-resolve-claims-in-fcc-program.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  agreed to pay $3.5 million
in addition to $18.25 million it already paid to resolve
allegations it overbilled the U.S. for a system for the deaf the
company knew was used for fraudulent calls from other countries.  The settlement announced today by the U.S. Justice
Department involves a Federal Communications Commission program
that reimburses telecommunications companies that provide phone
service for people who are hearing or speech impaired.  AT&T paid an initial $18.25 million in a May 7 agreement
with the FCC, the government said. Today, the Justice Department
said in a statement that Dallas-based AT&T agreed to pay another
$3.5 million to resolve civil allegations under the federal
False Claims Act.  Marty Richter , a spokesman for AT&T, said in an e-mailed
message that although the company denies the allegations, it
decided the “most productive course” was to settle the suit.
Richter said the case involved “an exceptionally small line of
business that we no longer offer.”  The government joined a private citizen’s whistle-blower
lawsuit against the company in federal court in Pittsburgh in
March 2012. The Justice Department alleged that from December
2009 through December 2011, as many as 80 percent of the IP
Relay service calls for which AT&T claimed reimbursement were
ineligible because they weren’t placed in the U.S. or weren’t
made by hearing- or speech-impaired people.  The government said a large share of the calls came from
Nigeria or other countries and that the callers used the program
for credit card fraud or other fraudulent actions.  Whistle-Blower Suit  The whistle-blower suit was filed by Constance Lyttle, who
will receive $525,000 of the settlement, the Justice Department
said.  The case stems from services mandated under the Americans
with Disabilities Act that require carriers to provide voice
telephone services for hearing- or speech-impaired callers.
Carriers use intermediaries to relay real-time conversations.  The service is free to hearing-impaired callers and
carriers can seek reimbursement for calls originating in the
U.S. at $1.30 a minute through a fund administered by the FCC.  Since its inception in 2002, the anonymity provided by the
IP Relay program was abused by criminals outside the U.S.,
according to the lawsuit. AT&T in 2004, after getting complaints
from merchants, determined the Internet Protocol addresses of 10
of the top 12 users of the service were abroad, primarily in
Lagos, Nigeria, the government said.  Certified Callers  In late 2008, the FCC required that providers certify that
callers were eligible for the program by verifying the user’s
name and mailing address.  After AT&T managers became concerned that use of the
program would decrease, the company began using an Internet
database to confirm users’ addresses, according to the lawsuit.
By the end of October 2009, AT&T managers were allegedly aware
that credit card scams were being conducted by new users.  The case is Lyttle v. AT&T Communications of  Pennsylvania ,
10-cv-01376, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  