-- Latest Salvo in Feud Targets Humane Society’s Accounting
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-11-07T05:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/latest-salvo-in-feud-targets-humane-society-s-accounting.html
A group that has been feuding for
years with the Humane Society of the United States has filed a
complaint with the Internal Revenue Service over the animal
welfare group’s tax accounting.  The Center for Consumer Freedom, which opposes the efforts
by the Humane Society to tighten rules for egg farms and
livestock operations, ran  advertisements  in the  Washington 
transit system this summer criticizing the group for not giving
more of its money to local animal shelters.  Now it’s taking the fight to the IRS. It submitted a
complaint saying the Humane Society violated IRS rules by
listing as contributions the $17.7 million value of air time for
its public service announcements to promote pet adoption. The
net effect is to raise the ratio of program expenses to total
expenses, which the independent assessor  Charity Navigator  uses
to rank the effectiveness of charities.  The complaint is the latest salvo in the dispute between
the Humane Society, which has targeted chicken and pork
producers for their care of animals, and the Center for Consumer
Freedom, which opposes animal rights groups that target the meat
industry. The latter group runs the website  Humanewatch.org ,
which targets the organization and personally criticizes HSUS
President Wayne Pacelle. It also started a competing group with
the similar name of Humane Society for Shelter Pets.  The Humane Society’s accounting “unjustly boosted a
charity rating that many donors may rely on,” according to the
Oct. 3 complaint filed by Will Coggin, senior research analyst
for the Center for Consumer Freedom in Washington.  Public Integrity  The Washington-based Humane Society filed its own
complaints with the IRS and New York Commission on Public
Integrity on the Center for Consumer Freedom, alleging it’s
unlawfully using corporate donations to enrich the for-profit
firm of its executive director, Richard Berman. Taking on health
groups earned Berman the moniker  “Dr. Evil”  from the CBS News
broadcast “60 Minutes” in 2007.  “We follow the advice of our legal and accounting
experts” in filling out tax returns, Alan Heymann, a spokesman
for the Humane Society, said. “The only thing I would ask is
that you consider the source of these allegations.”  Eve Borenstein, a lawyer in  Minneapolis  specializing in
preparing the 990 tax form of non-profits, said the Humane
Society shouldn’t count the public service air time as
contributions.  “This is a relatively elementary rule, and the IRS has
been trying to scream it” to tax preparers, Borenstein said in
an interview.  Minimal Impact  In this case, the practical impact of the accounting change
is minimal.  The Humane Society earned the highest, four-star rating
from Charity Navigator, and that wouldn’t change if the in-kind
contributions were subtracted. Excluding those in-kind
contributions would lower the ratio by 3.4 percentage points, to
75.2 percent.  “It’s not a significant enough error, if it is an error,
that it would change the overall rating,” Ken Berger, president
of the Glen Rock, New Jersey-based Charity Navigator, said in an
interview. “The charity would still get our highest score.”  CharityWatch , a competing rating agency based in  Chicago ,
rates the Humane Society as a “barely satisfactory” C-, saying
when it comes to the group, the truth “lies somewhere between
the fuzzy image presented by the charity and the voracious
criticisms of its naysayers.”  CharityWatch first raised the issue of the accounting of
the public service announcements in its newsletter this year.  Federal law bars the IRS from commenting on any particular
taxpayer, Eric Smith, an agency spokesman, said in an e-mailed
response to questions about the complaint.  Mayor Bloomberg  The Center for Consumer Freedom had an advertising  campaign 
opposing  New York  Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s effort to ban sale
of soft drinks larger than 16 ounces. The mayor is the founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg LP. The group provided its IRS
complaint to Bloomberg.  Last year the Humane Society filed a 251-page complaint
against the Center for Consumer Freedom and four other tax-exempt groups that are all headquartered at the Washington
offices of a Washington public relations firm run by Richard
Berman. The complaint showed that those five groups paid the
for-profit firm $15 million in management expenses from 2008 to
2010, an arrangement that may violate IRS rules prohibiting
executives from  profiting  off the tax-exempt entities they run.  The Center for Consumer Freedom hasn’t heard from the IRS
about that complaint, Coggin said in an interview.  Gaming Rankings  In addition, while the Center for Consumer Freedom said the
Humane Society is gaming the Charity Navigator rankings,
Consumer Freedom and its affiliates have been the subject of a
 “donor advisory”  by Charity Navigator because of the expenses
for the for-profit firm. “That’s a whole other order of
magnitude” compared to the complaint against the Humane
Society, Berger said. “It’s something very atypical.”  Of the 7,000 charities it reviews, 123 have donor
advisories, he said.  The Center for Consumer Freedom specifically mentioned
Charity Navigator in its complaint to the IRS. Still, it calls
the donor advisory issued against its groups as “retaliatory.”  “We have been critical of Charity Navigator in the past
for applying such lax standards to HSUS, so the organization
felt obliged to take a swing at us,” Coggin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  