-- Brazil Ending Some Tax Breaks to Aid Budget, Augustin Says
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-11-08T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/augustin-says-brazil-to-end-tax-breaks-for-consumers-exporters.html
Brazil will eliminate tax breaks on
 consumer goods  and end a program to stimulate exports to shore
up public finances, Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin said.  The budget will be easier to manage next year as tax
collection increases, the  minimum wage  grows at a slower pace
and the government reduces capital injections to public banks,
Augustin said in an interview yesterday. He said the federal
government will meet its goal of saving 73 billion reais ($32
billion) before interest payments this year.  The real declined more than any other major currency since
Brazil last month posted its widest budget  deficit  in almost
four years, renewing investors’ concern the nation’s credit
rating may be downgraded.  Standard & Poor’s  placed  Brazil ’s BBB
rating on negative outlook in June, citing surging debt and
sluggish growth.  “We are used to dealing with the markets’ complexity and
moods,” Augustin said at his office in Brasilia. The government
must “react with calm, seek to inform and undo possible
misunderstanding and continue with the policies it believes will
deal with the negative circumstances.”  The real weakened 0.8 percent to 2.3061 yesterday. The
currency has declined 5 percent since the central bank reported
on Oct. 31 that the  budget deficit  widened to 3.3 of gross
domestic product in the 12 months ended September, the largest
since November 2009.  ‘More Critical’  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015, the most
traded in  Sao Paulo  yesterday, rose 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 10.91 percent. Five-year credit-default
swaps, contracts protecting holders of the nation’s debt against
non-payment, rose three basis points to 191 basis points.  “It’s normal for the market to be more critical at
times,” Augustin said.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  pledged on Nov. 1 to reduce
the national state development bank’s loans by about 20 percent
next year and rein in other areas of spending to improve fiscal
performance. He also said the government will roll back tax
breaks on consumer goods created to revive economic growth.  Government-controlled banks have boosted lending at five
times the pace of privately run counterparts this year to revive
economic growth. The government also will unwind tax breaks on
consumer goods.  The primary surplus, which excludes interest payments,
shrank to 1.6 percent, short of the government’s 2.3 percent
target for this year.  Negative Outlook  S&P in June placed Brazil’s rating on negative outlook, and
Moody’s Investors Service last month reduced its outlook to
stable from positive. Moody’s emphasized that Brazil’s 59
percent government debt-to-gross domestic product ratio was
above the 45 percent median for other nations whose sovereign
bonds have the same rating.  Fitch Ratings  is more interested in Brazil’s long-term
fiscal trends,  Shelly Shetty , head of the company’s Latin
America sovereigns, said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday.  “We have to see to what degree the government is able to
meet its primary surplus target for 2013 and its commitment to
maintain a primary surplus which is compatible with stability in
the general government debt burden,” she wrote.  The country’s $3.25 billion of bonds due 2025 tumbled 3.01
cents since they were issued Oct. 23, increasing yields by 0.35
percentage point to 4.66 percent. Yields on government debt in
 emerging markets  rose an average 0.28 percentage point in the
same span.  ‘Very Positive’  Demand for the bonds was $10 billion, Augustin said.  “It was a very positive result,” he said about the debt
sale. “The economist says that the fundamentals are poor, but
the trader at the same bank thinks that the country is doing
very well and that he must invest.”  Government spending  has helped fuel inflation that has run
above the central bank’s 4.5 percent target during President
Dilma Rousseff’s entire tenure. Inflation continues to show
resistance and on an annual basis will remain elevated, central
bank director for economic policy, Carlos Hamilton, told
reporters Nov. 6.  Consumer price increases prompted the central bank to boost
the benchmark Selic by 50 basis points at each of the past four
monetary policy meetings following a quarter-point boost in
April. That is 75 basis points more than  Indonesia , the only
other country among major central banks tracked by Bloomberg
that has boosted borrowing costs from last year’s levels.  Even so, annual inflation will accelerate to 5.92 percent
by the end of next year from 5.84 percent  in October , according
to a Nov. 1 central bank survey of about 100 economists. Those
analysts also expect growth in  Latin America ’s largest economy
to slow to 2.13 percent next year from 2.50 percent in 2013.  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded by 0.9 percent in
2012 and 2.7 percent the year prior.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  