-- Australia Full-Time Job Slump Bolsters Bets RBA to Hold: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-11-07T05:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/australian-employers-cut-full-time-jobs-in-october-aussie-drops.html
Australian employers cut full-time
workers in October by the most in more than a year, sending the
local dollar lower as traders increased bets the central bank
will keep  interest rates  at a record low.  The number of full-time jobs declined by 27,900, the
statistics bureau said in Sydney today, the most since June
2012. The total number of people  employed  rose by 1,100 -- less
than the 10,000 increase expected in a Bloomberg News survey --
as part-time employment increased by 28,900. The jobless rate
held at a revised 5.7 percent.  Traders unwound bets that the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s
next interest rate move will be an increase, which had been
spurred by a rebound in business and  consumer confidence  since
 Tony Abbott ’s coalition restored majority government on Sept. 7.
The RBA reduced rates by 2.25 percentage points since late 2011
to a record-low 2.5 percent to help offset the squeeze from an
elevated local dollar and spur industries outside mining.  The jobs report “keeps that easing bias in place,” said
Michael Blythe, chief economist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia . The RBA has “made it pretty clear I think they want
that easing to come through a lower currency, which would in
fact be probably the best help that those sectors that are
shedding jobs can get at the moment,” he said.  Unemployment climbed to 5.9 percent in New South  Wales  and
Victoria, the nation’s two most populous states, the report
showed. It jumped to 6.6 percent in the manufacturing state of
South Australia, where General Motors Co.’s local unit is
struggling with high costs and the strong currency.  Dollar Fall  The Australian dollar fell to 94.78 U.S. cents at 4:10 p.m.
in Sydney from 95.20 cents before the data were released. Swaps
traders lowered bets on rate increases in Australia, with 16
basis points priced in over a year compared with 22 basis points
yesterday, a Credit Suisse Group AG index shows.  The participation rate, a measure of the  labor force  in
proportion to the population, held at 64.8 percent in October,
the report showed.  Telstra Corp., Australia’s biggest phone company, said in
September it would cut about 1,100 jobs within the next nine
months to boost productivity.  Elders Ltd. (ELD) , an Australian
agricultural company, said Sept. 10 it will reduce about 10
percent of its workforce as it reorganizes its business and
reduces debt.  The local dollar was the best performing group of 10
currency last month, hurting export-related industries. The RBA
left its benchmark rate unchanged this week, as Governor  Glenn
Stevens  intensified his language on the  exchange rate , warning
the currency was “uncomfortably high” and a lower level would
be needed to achieve balanced growth.  ‘Materially Lower’  Stevens, in a speech last week, said the local currency’s
level isn’t supported by costs and productivity in the economy
and the nation’s terms of trade are more likely to fall than
rise. “It seems quite likely that at some point in the future
the Australian dollar will be materially lower than it is
today,” he said in the Oct. 29 address.  Elsewhere, New Zealand house prices rose in October by the
most since January 2008, according to Quotable Value New
Zealand, a government-owned property research company. Malaysia
will hold its overnight policy rate at 3 percent, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  In Europe, economists forecast the  Bank of England  will
keep its benchmark rate unchanged at 0.5 percent, while Germany
is scheduled to report industrial production data for September.
The  U.S. economy  probably slowed in the third quarter,
indicating the expansion was losing momentum even before the
partial government shutdown, while the number or Americans
filing applications for  unemployment benefits  likely remained
high, economists project reports will show.  Poor Conditions  In Australia, a private survey released Oct. 8 showed
employment conditions remained poor in September even as
business confidence surged to the highest level in 3 1/2 years.  Today’s jobs data may indicate “the Reserve Bank’s not
finished after all,”  Stephen Walters , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
chief economist in Australia who predicts a rate cut next
quarter, said in an interview with Bloomberg television. “If
you did get the Aussie dollar climbing back up towards parity
that would certainly bring the Reserve Bank back into play.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  