-- MLB Trying to Destroy Rodriguez’s Career, Lawyer Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-11-07T18:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/mlb-trying-to-destroy-rodriguez-s-career-lawyer-says.html
Major League Baseball and
Commissioner Bud Selig tried to ruin the reputation and career
of New York Yankees’ third baseman Alex Rodriguez in their
investigation of the use of performance-enhancing drugs, the
ballplayer’s lawyer told a federal judge.  MLB investigators paid off and threatened witnesses, bought
stolen documents and leaked confidential information to the
press to “poison the well against Mr. Rodriguez,” the
attorney, Jordan Siev, told U.S. District Judge Lorna Schofield
today in  Manhattan . One investigator had an “inappropriate
sexual relationship” with a witness, Siev said.  Selig and MLB violated New York law in an attempt to “get
Mr. Rodriguez at all costs and salvage Mr. Selig’s reputation”
for policing the use of banned drugs in the game, Siev said.  “We think this conduct is tortious, at the least, and
potentially criminal,” he said.  Rodriguez, 38, is appealing a 211-game suspension, the
longest in major-league history, for using testosterone and
human growth hormone.  He recently finished the sixth season of a 10-year, $275
million contract, the biggest in baseball. Rodriguez didn’t
appear in court.  The athlete sued Selig and MLB in state court in Manhattan
Oct. 3, seeking compensatory and punitive damages. The
defendants then moved the suit to federal court.  Selig and Major League Baseball deny Rodriguez’s claims,
their lawyer, Joseph Baumgarten, told Schofield.  Seeking Dismissal  Baumgarten said he will ask the judge to dismiss the suit
on the ground that baseball’s labor agreement requires the
player to take the claims to arbitration. Rodriguez is trying to
return the case to state court.  “It’s ironic,” Schofield told the lawyers. “Neither side
really wants to be here, but you both are here.”  The case is Rodriguez v. Major League Baseball, 13-cv-07097, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  