-- BCE Misses Profit, Sales Estimates as Subscriber Gains Slow
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-11-07T21:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/bce-misses-profit-revenue-estimates-after-subscriber-gains-slow.html
BCE Inc. (BCE) , Canada’s second-largest
wireless carrier, reported third-quarter profit and sales that
missed analysts’ estimates as the company added fewer smartphone
subscribers than predicted.  Excluding one-time charges and gains, earnings were 75
Canadian cents (72 cents) a share, the Montreal-based company
said today, missing the consensus of 78 cents in a Bloomberg
survey of analysts. Sales were C$5.1 billion, compared with the
average analyst estimate of C$5.15 billion.  Chief Executive Officer George Cope is busy consolidating
assets acquired in the C$3 billion purchase of Astral Media Inc.
in July. Cope’s strategy has been to use programming from that
and other recent acquisitions to offer a wider array of content
with which he can lure digital TV and wireless customers away
from rivals  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and  Telus Corp. (T)   That was reflected in the growth of BCE’s average revenue
per wireless user. The typical bill climbed 1.7 percent to
C$58.30, the 15th straight quarter of gains, showing that
customers are paying more for data.  Still, BCE added fewer wireless customers on long-term
contracts than predicted last quarter. It gained 102,714,
compared with a 124,500 estimate. That was in part because BCE
offered fewer promotional packages and smaller smartphone
subsidies, the company said. A government-mandated shift to two-year contracts from the traditional three-year plans also had an
impact.  Rival Subscribers  Rogers, based in Toronto, added 64,000 subscribers last
quarter on that basis, also less than analysts predicted, and
cited the two-year plan shift as a factor. Vancouver-based
Telus, which reports its results tomorrow, is expected to add
104,000 contract subscribers.  BCE shares  rose 1 percent to C$45.93 at the close in
Toronto. The  stock  has climbed 7.7 percent this year.  Net income attributable to shareholders fell to C$343
million, or 44 cents a share, from C$527 million, or 68 cents, a
year earlier. The decline was primarily due to the $230 million
cost of “tangible benefits” obligations that  Canada ’s media
regulatory agency demanded BCE pay before approving the Astral
deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  