-- BHP Billiton’s Former Oil Chief Yeager Expects More U.S. M&A
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-11-07T06:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/bhp-billiton-s-former-oil-ceo-yeager-expects-more-m-a-in-u-s-.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s former oil and
gas head J. Michael Yeager expects more industry mergers and
acquisitions in the U.S. as onshore developers seek to sell
assets they can’t develop and boost their technical skills.  “There’s a lot of churn that’s going to go on and you will
continue to see a lot of transactional work,” Yeager, now chief
executive officer of  Maverick Drilling & Exploration Ltd. (MAD) , said
today in a phone interview from Houston. “Over time we hope to
prepare ourselves to be part of that.”  Investor unrest over lackluster returns has prompted
Occidental Petroleum Corp., Hess Corp., Apache Corp. and other
energy companies to pursue breakup plans and global asset sales.
Yeager, who led BHP’s $20 billion move into the U.S. shale gas
industry before leaving the Melbourne-based company earlier this
year, is focusing on oil in his new role at Maverick, an
explorer developing fields south of Houston.  “When you take these large amounts of acreage, you have to
drill it up, or you have to give it up,” Yeager said. “In some
cases you may have three years to drill as much as you can and
you lose the rest of it, so there’s acreage that people cannot
handle on the market. There’s a lot of opportunity.”  Maverick shares  have risen 12 percent in Sydney trading
since the company announced Oct. 14 that it had hired Yeager.
The company dropped 1 percent today to 47.5 cents, while
 Australia ’s benchmark index fell 0.2 percent.  ‘Deeper Horizons’  Maverick plans to double the number of wells drilled each
month by this time next year and to start trading on the  Nasdaq 
in the first week of December, according to Yeager, a U.S. Naval
Academy graduate who worked at Exxon Mobil Corp. earlier in his
career. The company expects to have lower costs than competitors
because it owns all of its rigs, he said.  Yeager, 60, said a need for more technical expertise will
also drive companies to combine. Yeager said he has been
approached by a couple of groups seeking those skills.  Maverick, which trades in Sydney and has offices in
Newcastle in Australia’s New South Wales state, as well as
Houston, will consider expanding into new fields and joining
with a “sister company that wants to work with us,” he said.  “A year from now we hope to be in a position where we can
say, ‘we’re on top of our current portfolio, now is there
something else we’d like to do,’” he said.  Last Quarter  Maverick’s production last quarter rose 6 percent to 1,361
barrels of oil per day, compared with the previous three months,
it said Oct. 30. The company said it received an average oil
price of $108.24 per barrel during the quarter.  Even if oil prices decline, Yeager said he expects they
would rebound.  The benchmark U.S. crude, West Texas Intermediate, dropped
to a five-month low of $93.37 a barrel on Nov. 5 on speculation
that inventories increased for a seventh week in the U.S. Brent
crude, the benchmark for two-thirds of the world’s oil which has
averaged $108.53 this year, probably will fall to the $70-to-$80
range,  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York ,
said last month without providing a timeline.  “If it drops low for a while, that could happen, but I
don’t think it’s sustainable,” Yeager said. “Liquids are
scarce. The giant  oil fields  are few and far between and they
are expensive and slow to develop. Adding more liquid barrels to
a world that is thirsty, I’m bullish on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  