-- Billionaire Lures Funds With Record HCL Margin: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-11-08T12:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/billionaire-lures-funds-with-record-hcl-margin-corporate-india.html
HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT) , a software
exporter founded by Indian billionaire Shiv Nadar, is attracting
funds including UTI Asset Management Co. after profit margin
widened to a record.  The Indian software maker has climbed 80  percent  in this
year’s best performance among the 50 stocks that make up the CNX
Nifty Index. The stock’s consensus rating, or the average of
analysts’ recommendations, is at 4.39, the highest among  India ’s
four largest information technology companies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , Asia’s
biggest software exporter by market value, has a rating of 3.94.  “HCL Tech is our top pick among the Indian software
exporters,” said Taina Erajuuri, who helps manage more than 2
billion euros ($2.7 billion) of assets at FIM Asset Management
Ltd. in Helsinki, said in an interview. “HCL’s revenue and
profit margin have been very good. A weaker rupee has come as a
windfall for the company and that has worked in our favor.”  New Delhi-based HCL is among Indian companies riding a
recovery in the U.S. and  Europe  as technology spending rebounds
from a trough reached following the 2008 credit crisis. HCL is
winning more contracts by offering to maintain clients’ computer
networks and helping them cut costs, a service that has aided in
countering any drop in revenue from traditional code writing and
boosting its profit margin to the widest since at least 2006 in
the quarter ended Sept. 30.  Profit Growth  HCL Technologies  shares  rose 1 percent to 1,114.30 rupees
at the close in  Mumbai . The gain this year compares with a 6.4
percent advance for the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX) , 66.5 percent
for TCS and 45 percent for  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Anil Chanana, HCL’s chief financial officer, didn’t respond
to requests for comments on the company’s performance.  Net income has increased for 15 consecutive quarters on an
annual basis, while sales have risen every quarter since 2005.
Profit as a share of sales before interest costs, taxes and
depreciation jumped 304 basis points to 26.3 percent in the
three months through Sept. 30, the highest after TCS among
Indian software makers.  Rupee Weakness  A weaker rupee, a reduction in operating costs and the
expansion of network-maintenance services helped boost the
gauge, according to Hardik Shah, an analyst at K.R. Choksey
Integrated Financial Solutions in Mumbai. The rupee declined 5.2
percent against the dollar in the quarter, the second-worst
performance among  Asia ’s most traded currencies.  “There is ample opportunity in infrastructure management
service and HCL Tech, being a leading player, will continue to
benefit from traction,” Shah wrote in a note dated Oct. 28, a
week after raising his recommendation to a ‘buy’ from
‘accumulate.’  Infrastructure service  contracts  accounted for 27 percent
of sales, compared with 7.2 percent at Infosys and 12 percent at
TCS, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HCL Technologies runs the risk of becoming a niche service
provider as dependence on this segment grows, said Harit Shah,
an analyst at Mumbai-based Nirmal Bang Institutional Equities,
who favors buying the stock with a one-year price target of
1,380 rupees.  Too Dependent  “The concern is that they are growing dependent on that
single vertical for income,” he said. “They don’t want such a
reputation in such a competitive market.”  Once the rupee starts to appreciate as economic growth
rebounds from a decade-low, margins may be squeezed, said Sandip Sabharwal, chief executive officer of  portfolio management  at
Mumbai-based Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt.  “We are advising clients to move technology stocks,
including HCL, to underweight now,” he said.  DSP BlackRock Investment Managers Pvt. was among the funds
that added HCL Technologies to their holdings besides UTI. Arun
Rajendran, a spokesman for DSP BlackRock, declined to comment.
Khurshid Mistry, a spokeswoman for UTI Asset Management, could
not be reached for comment.  The gains in HCL Technologies have increased the net worth
of Nadar, the sixth-richest Indian, by $2.8 billion this year to
$8.7 billion, giving a boost to his philanthropic initiatives in
the field of education. The  Shiv Nadar Foundation , which was
established in 1994, plans to spend 30 billion rupees ($479
million) over the next five years in expanding projects aimed at
eradicating illiteracy and providing education to rural
children.  IT Spending  Nadar, who had a rural upbringing in southern India, set up
Hindustan Computers with partners in 1976 with an investment of
$20,000 and now owns 62 percent of HCL Technologies. He has
committed more than 10 percent to philanthropy.  His company’s success is also being fueled by an economic
recovery in  North America  and Europe where information
technology services and software spending touched $1.9 trillion
in 2012, according to researcher Gartner Inc. Total IT spending
may grow to $2.1 trillion in 2013, according to Gartner.  The  U.S. economy  expanded an annualized 2.8 percent in the
third quarter at a pace faster than forecast, a Commerce
Department report showed.  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH) , which pays more than
a quarter of its costs in Indian rupees, on Nov. 5 forecast
annual revenue would jump 20 percent, signaling improved
environment for software service providers. Infosys raised its
sales forecast last month for the year ending March 31.  “HCL’s results have shown a good performance and growth,”
said K.K. Mital, head of portfolio management services at Globe
Capital Market Ltd. in  New Delhi . “We are recommending
investors to hold on to HCL shares.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  