-- BlackBerry Bonds Attract Investment From Qatar, Brookfield
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-11-07T22:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/blackberry-bond-sale-attracts-investment-from-qatar-brookfield.html
BlackBerry Ltd. (BB) ’s $1 billion
convertible bond sale, part of an effort to shore up its
finances, attracted investors ranging from Qatar Holding LLC to
 Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)   Mackenzie Financial Corp.,  Markel Corp. (MKL)  and Canso
Investment Counsel Ltd. also bought the debentures -- a deal
that was orchestrated by  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) ,
BlackBerry’s largest investor. Canso is investing $300 million,
Fairfax is putting in $250 million, and Mackenzie is
contributing $200 million, according to a filing today. Markel
and Qatar Holding are each adding $100 million, while Brookfield
contributed $50 million.  Fairfax, an insurance and investment firm, set up the bond
sale after failing to secure the funds for a tentative $4.7
billion offer to buy the smartphone maker and take it private.
Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry has been losing market share
to Apple Inc. and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , leading to a plunge
in sales and mounting losses.  Despite BlackBerry’s challenges, the bonds are a safe
investment, said Sameet Kanade, an analyst at Jacob Securities
Inc. in Toronto. The debtholders will get first crack at
BlackBerry’s assets in a bankruptcy. If, on the other hand, the
shares rise, the debentures can be converted into stock at $10 a
share, he said.  Safe Bet?  “On the downside, you’re protected,” Kanade said. “And
on the upside, you could make a killing.”  The move to borrow the funds underscores BlackBerry’s
deteriorating cash situation. Its  cash  and short-term
investments fell by almost $500 million last quarter to $2.3
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At that rate,
the money will be gone by the end of next year.  BlackBerry is also seeking a tax refund of as much as $1
billion before the end of this year, according to two people
familiar with the situation. The company is negotiating for a
larger refund than the $500 million previously disclosed and is
asking the Canadian government to speed up the process, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
are private.  The debenture transaction is expected to be completed
within two weeks, according to the filing. If it hasn’t closed
by Nov. 27, any of the parties can terminate the agreement.
Fairfax has an option to arrange for $250 million more of the
debentures within 30 days of the transaction closing.  Break Fee  BlackBerry must pay a termination fee to the bond investors
if it enters into an agreement to sell the company. The fee
ranges from $135 million to $250 million depending on the
circumstances.  Cerberus Capital Management LP, the New York-based firm
that specializes in investing in distressed assets, had been
discussing a joint offer with BlackBerry’s co-founders and
chipmaker  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  before BlackBerry negotiated the bond
deal, two people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  BlackBerry’s new creditors are a mix of U.S., Canadian and
Qatari investors. Canso is a closely held  money manager  based in
Richmond Hill, Ontario, that was founded by John Carswell.
Brookfield,  Canada ’s biggest manager of alternative assets,
oversees office buildings, ports and railways on behalf of third
parties.  Mackenzie, a Toronto-based investment manager, is the
eighth-largest investor in Fairfax. It held about 294,000 shares
as of July 31, along with some BlackBerry shares, according to
Bloomberg data. Qatar Holding, meanwhile, is a unit of the
emirate’s sovereign wealth fund. Markel is a holding company
based in  Glen Allen ,  Virginia , that offers insurance.  Fairfax and its partners are restricted from selling their
debentures for at least a year after purchasing them, according
to the filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  