-- Black Ball Helps Alicia Keys Bring AIDS Drugs to Kids
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-11-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/black-ball-helps-alicia-keys-bring-aids-drugs-to-kids.html
Alicia Keys saw the impact of AIDS
during her first trip to  Africa  in 2003 and co-founded Keep a
Child Alive.  Tonight the nonprofit will celebrate its 10th anniversary
at the annual Black Ball. The charity’s $5 million budget helps
local clinics in  Kenya ,  Uganda ,  Rwanda ,  South Africa  and  India 
with treatment programs, food assistance and orphan care.  The performers tonight at Manhattan’s Hammerstein Ballroom
will include Keys, singer-producer Pharrell Williams (“Blurred
Lines”), Carole King, Kathleen Battle, British soul singer
Laura Mvula and R&B-jazz fusion master Roy Ayers.  Last year, KCA tapped Peter Twyman, a graduate of the
Harvard School of  Public Health , to be the organization’s chief
executive officer. Twyman previously served as a regional
program director at Columbia University’s International Center
for AIDS Care and Treatment Programs.  He spoke to me about the nonprofit’s work at Bloomberg News
world headquarters in  New York .  Cole: How did you link up with the organization?  Twyman: It was a radical departure to go from Columbia to a
celebrity-fronted charity. But the more I learned and talked to
Alicia, I realized it’s an amazing organization first of all.
It’s done amazing work on the ground, and what’s different about
it from my previous job is that it’s working with community-based groups.  Grass-Roots Partners  Cole: How does Keep a Child Alive work?  Twyman: We fund grass-roots partners in South Africa,
Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya and India. We identify the groups that are
doing innovative work, and we help them expand.  Cole: What problems do these countries face in fighting
HIV/AIDS?  Twyman: With U.S. funding for HIV work, the trend is to
give aid to governments. The funding  Columbia University  used to
get now goes to the Rwandan government, which is great. But
what’s being left out is support for these local responses to
the epidemic.  Cole: How badly have children been affected by the HIV
epidemic in Africa?  Twyman: It’s particularly challenging with kids. Only 3 out
of 10 who need treatment in middle-income countries are actually
getting it.  It’s a horrible situation for kids who are infected para-natally. About 50 percent will die by age 2 if they don’t get
treatment and 80 percent by the age of 5. It’s an astounding
figure. A lot of people think that HIV has been taken care of,
but for kids it’s a desperate situation.  Getting Lost  Cole: What are some of the obstacles you face?  Twyman: The young kids sort of get lost in this process.
They’re not taking their drugs. This is a daily regimen for
life. If you stop taking drugs, you can develop a resistance to
drugs, and your options become fewer and fewer. We’re seeing
kids get sick, we’re seeing kids die. We’re seeing kids kill
themselves because they can’t see a future living with HIV.  Cole: How do you combat this?  Twyman: We’re training young people to be advocates and
pure educators. Who better to counsel a teenager who has HIV
than another teenager with HIV? We’re creating adolescent-friendly services.  Cole: What’s  Alicia Keys ’s role in all this?  Twyman: She’s our co-founder and global ambassador and she
helps us in every way. She helps us with fundraising, she hosts
the Black Ball, she engages her celebrity friends and she talks
whenever she can about the issue. She’s written letters to the
president about HIV funding.  Clive Davis  Cole: Who can we expect to see at this year’s Black Ball?  Twyman: Clive Davis usually buys a table. We’ll have the
chairman of our board (David Wirtschafter), who is president of
William Morris Endeavor Entertainment. We’ll have Sony and RCA
and other industries. Hearst usually comes, and we have Delta
this year. So it’s a pretty high-powered and celebrity-filled
room, and it’s fun.  Cole: Your budget is about $5 million. What could you do
with more money?  Twyman: We have a commitment to these amazing clinics. We’d
like to help them expand their work and help them meet their
needs even more. We’d like to go to some of the countries where
the response to the epidemic has been less effective so that we
can help to provide leadership.  (The  Keep A Child Alive Black Ball  gala is tonight at the
Hammerstein Ballroom in  Manhattan . For tickets and information:
+1-718-965-1111 ext. 16 or  danielle@keepachildalive.org .)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology,
 Lance Esplund  on art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  