-- Blight-Fighting Bonds Revived in Philadelphia Plan: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-11-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/blight-fighting-bonds-revived-in-philadelphia-plan-muni-credit.html
Philadelphia wants to create its
first blight-fighting district in eight years, financed by a
type of municipal debt for which sales have dwindled to a fifth
of the pre-recession pace.  The securities, called tax-increment financing bonds, fell
out of favor as the financial crisis derailed projects and
eroded public support for subsidizing developers. Localities
have sold $958 million worth this year, compared with $4.7
billion in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
obligations are backed by increased revenue, usually from
property taxes, in districts marked for redevelopment.  Munis tied to real estate have lost some appeal after
property prices tumbled during the credit crisis. While home
values have rebounded to a five-year high, the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property prices in 20 U.S. cities is still 22 percent
 below  the 2006 peak. Meanwhile, the  Federal Reserve  said last
week that the housing recovery has slowed.  Some investors have lost confidence that real-estate
holdings will maintain their gains, said  Richard Ciccarone ,
chief research officer in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois , for McDonnell
Investment Management, which handles about $8 billion in munis.  “There’s been a general reluctance to look at them as safe
vehicles,” he said of the tax-increment bonds.  Appetite Dims  Investors’ limited appetite crimps officials’ ability to
revitalize neighborhoods amid a reluctance to borrow for capital
projects. Even with  yields  more than a percentage point below
their 50-year average, cities and states have sold about $255
billion of fixed-rate, long-term debt this year, 15.5 percent
less than a year earlier, Bloomberg data show.  “Governments and political leaders are not wanting to load
up borrowing,” said Joseph Rosenblum, director of municipal
credit research in  New York  at AllianceBernstein LP, which
manages about $30 billion in munis. “It’s hard to justify in
hard economic times.”  In some cases, opponents have mobilized against the
financing. Several hotel owners in Philadelphia created a
coalition to fight a new tax-increment district in the nation’s
fifth-most populous city. A city council committee today may
consider a bill establishing the subsidy.  Perception Pause  “People are much more leery about essentially the
perceived giving away of what could be tax dollars to what they
perceive to be rich developers,” said Maureen McAvey, senior
fellow in  Washington  at the Urban Land Institute, a nonprofit
research organization.  Under the financing method, municipal officials freeze the
assessed value of a designated area. Any increase in tax
receipts goes toward repaying debt that funded the development.
Some communities may guarantee payments, which are usually
exempt from taxation for investors, if the revenue falls short.
In Philadelphia’s case, developers must make up the difference.  Cities use the approach “as a catalyst to spur the first
few projects in a development area to get it going and then
hoping the private sector would be able to carry the rest,”
McAvey said.  During and after the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009, municipalities hesitated to engage in such financing,
Rosenblum said.  Tougher Sell  “You need to see excess revenue, that increased revenue
being there to pay off the debt,” he said. “It’s hard to
project that when values are declining. It would be tougher to
sell that kind of debt.”  Issuers from  Colorado  were the most active in tax-increment
financing bonds this year, driven by development of a former
Denver airport into residences, offices and shops, a process
that began in the 1990s, Bloomberg data show.  To help with the costs, the Denver Urban Renewal Authority
in March issued $171.3 million in debt graded A-, seventh-highest, by  Fitch Ratings . Securities maturing in December 2021
were priced to yield 2.51 percent, or about 0.8 percentage point
above benchmark debt, Bloomberg data show. They last traded Nov.
4 at an average spread of 1.02 percentage points.  Some investors have avoided this type of debt after
California Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, and legislators
eliminated redevelopment agencies effective Feb. 1, 2012, to
divert about $1 billion to schools. The authorities had almost
$30 billion in debt as of June 30, 2010, the state controller
said.  ‘Destabilizing’ Move  The move was “destabilizing to a bond holder,” Ciccarone
said.  After the state enacted the legislation, Moody’s Investors
Service cut California tax-allocation bonds that were investment
grade to junk.  Issuance has also tapered off as some cities aren’t seeing
real-estate projects return to levels from before the credit
crisis.  “We’ve seen very little large-scale financing in our
market,” said John Grady, president of the  Philadelphia
Industrial Development Corporation , which assists economic
development.  In Philadelphia, tax-increment districts help with
construction costs of projects that have already secured private
funds, Grady said. The city created 13 such districts that have
issued $119 million in debt since 1995, with about $79 million
outstanding as of Dec. 31, according to the agency.  Philly Hotel  Philadelphia wants to create the first district since 2005
to help develop a 700-room facility for  Starwood Hotels &
Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , which is based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Increased collections from taxes the city levies on real
estate, sales and business receipts would comprise $33 million
of the financing over 20 years in the district encompassing the
venture.  Once the city pledges the revenue, the developer would use
it to secure financing for the $280 million project, Grady said.
There’s no municipal guarantee of the incremental funds, he
said.  The site, a block from  City Hall , borders another hotel,
the Ritz-Carlton, and meets the test for blight as it’s been a
parking lot since 1991, Grady said.  “It’s in the middle of our downtown,” he said. “It’s a
highly underutilized property.”  Job Vision  The project would create about 1,800 construction jobs and
450 permanents posts, Grady said. After diverting receipts for
the financing, Philadelphia would garner $25.8 million from the
project and the school district $12.3 million, compared with
doing nothing, according to legislation before city council.  Yet a group called Concerned Hotel Owners of Philadelphia
wrote to Mayor Michael Nutter and city council urging them to
reject the subsidy.  The facility, which would receive an additional $42 million
in state and federal grants and a federal loan, would take
business from other hotels and may not generate the taxes
projected, the group said.  The 10 hotels, including the Ritz-Carlton and the Four
Seasons, say the area isn’t blighted, a determination needed for
the financing.  “It’s a lively, active, vibrant area,” Maureen Garrity, a
spokeswoman for the coalition, said by telephone.  The developer, Brook Lenfest, didn’t respond to a message
left at his office in Lansdale,  Pennsylvania .  Market Week  In the municipal market this week, localities nationwide
are selling about $6.2 billion in long-term debt, up from $4.9
billion last week. They’re borrowing with benchmark yields close
to the lowest lowest since June.  Top-rated 10-year munis yield  2.69 percent , compared with
 2.64 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the  interest rates , a gauge of relative value,
is about 102 percent, close to the lowest since June 21. It
compares with an average of 94 percent since 2001. The smaller
the number, the more expensive munis are compared with federal
securities  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  