-- BNP Joins UniCredit, Santander in Race for Rabobank Unit
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-11-07T13:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/bnp-joins-unicredit-santander-in-race-for-rabobank-unit.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s largest
bank, placed a non-binding bid to buy a Polish agricultural
lender from Rabobank Groep as it seeks to expand in the European
Union’s largest eastern economy.  BNP offered to buy 99% of Warsaw-based Bank Gospodarki
Zywnosciowej SA, its Polish unit said in a regulatory statement
today. Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  earlier made a non-binding bid for
Rabobank’s unit and Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  is considering
buying the Polish lender, the two banks said last month. BGZ, as
the Polish bank is known, has a market value of 3.66 billion
zloty ($1.2 billion).  “Poland is one of the most promising countries in Europe
as it has better economic and loan growth prospects than other
states,” Michal Konarski, a Warsaw-based analyst at BRE Bank
SA, said by phone today. “BGZ, which has a stronger corporate
business than BNP in  Poland , would complement the French bank’s
operations.”  The country has been among Europe’s most active markets for
takeover deals involving banks and insurers since 2010. PKO Bank
Polski SA, Poland’s biggest lender, agreed in June to buy Nordea
Bank AB’s Polish assets, while Santander acquired Bank Zachodni
WBK SA last year and merged it with Kredyt Bank SA in January to
create the country’s third-largest bank by assets.  Book Value  UniCredit owns a majority stake in Bank Pekao SA, which is
Poland’s second-biggest lender. BNP’s Warsaw-based unit is the
12th-largest bank with 21.1 billion zloty of assets. BGZ assets
were 35.8 billion zloty at the end of September, while its nine-month net income jumped 73 percent to 134.3 million zloty from a
year earlier, it said in a regulatory filing on Nov. 5.  BGZ shares gained 0.6 percent to 71.2 zloty at 2:21 p.m. in
Warsaw, extending this year’s gain to 30 percent this year. The
bank trades at its book value, compared with the industry’s
average of 1.8 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rabobank, the Utrecht, Netherlands-based lender, is
considering various options for its Polish unit, including
selling it, BGZ said on Oct. 30. Rabobank bought a 40 percent
stake in BGZ in a public bid for 1.25 billion zloty last year.  The Polish regulator hasn’t been notified of any intent to
sell or buy BGZ, Chairman Andrzej Jakubiak told reporters in
Warsaw today. The watchdog will be “very careful” when it
comes to further banking mergers in Poland as “concentration”
on the Polish market is “close to optimal,” he told Bloomberg
Businessweek Polska on Nov. 4. The financial regulator will
“closely” monitor the biggest 10 banks, Jakubiak said today.  BNP offered 1 billion euros ($1.34 billion) for Rabobank’s
Polish unit, Puls Biznesu reported on Oct. 25, without saying
where it got the information. Its offer was “significantly”
higher than UniCredit’s bid, according to the newspaper.  Poland, the only EU country to avoid a recession amid the
recent global crisis, expects its economic growth to quicken to
2.5 percent next year from 1.5 percent in 2013, according to
government forecasts. Total lending has jumped 31 percent since
the end of 2009 to 841 billion zloty, according to data on the
Polish financial regulator’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  