-- BP Rolls Out Process to Offset Europe Chemical Blues
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-11-14T15:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/bp-rolls-out-new-technology-to-stave-off-european-chemical-blues.html
(Corrects to clarify that research phase spans eight years
in fifth paragraph of story published Nov. 7.)  BP Plc (BP/)  is poised to roll out a new
process for making acetic acid, a solvent used to produce
plastic bottles, coatings and textiles, as the petrochemical
maker turns to technology to counter weakened European markets.  The U.K. company is in the final throes of testing its
SaaBre technology using different feedstocks than the
established industrial process at a demonstration plant in Hull,
 England , and is poised to commercialize production, BP Global
Petrochemicals Chief Executive Officer Nick Elmslie said at a
briefing with media in London today.  The process can be used to produce the acid from
alternative feedstocks, including natural gas, coal and
eventually biomass. BP also announced a second an ethanol-based
technology, Hummingbird, to produce ethylene, which would allow
standalone plants in areas with access to ethanol like  Brazil ,
to supply local petchems-based plastics industries with smaller
volumes than the typical crackers required today.  “This is going to be very interesting for the market,”
Elmslie said. “If you want a million tons of ethylene, you have
to go and build a cracker in the U.S. or the Middle East. If you
just want 100,000 tons, then it can be very difficult.”  Commercialization of SaaBre would culminate eight years of
research, and the piloting of the technology at the site in
Hull, acquired from Distillers in the late 1960s. With the
advent of a more competitive U.S. chemical industry, BP is
reversing an earlier reduction in research spending on
petrochemicals as a means to develop niche products, Elmslie
said.  Biomaterials  The company is looking to benefit from a trend among
manufacturers of bottles to textiles for more environmentally
friendly materials.  Ineos Group Holdings forced through an overhaul of its U.K.
petrochemical facility to ensure its survival after it failed to
generate a profit.  Refinery profits across Europe have declined amid
increasing competition from larger, sophisticated new plants in
Asia and the Middle East. The slump is also a consequence of the
U.S. switching from being the biggest buyer of European gasoline
to a competitor in export markets, as North American refiners
benefit from a glut of cheap shale oil and natural gas.  BP may shut “the odd” smaller facility in northern Europe
on the periphery of its petrochemical division, he said. A hot
summer in Europe and warm weather in parts of Asia led to a
pick-up in demand for materials used in water bottles,
benefiting BP in the third quarter, Elmslie said.  Naptha crackers in Europe remain extremely stressed, he
said. BP also produces paraxylene and purified terephthalic acid
used in textiles and plastic containers for drinks and foods.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in  London  at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  