-- Brazil’s Consumer Prices Rose Less Than Forecast in October
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-11-07T13:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/brazil-s-consumer-prices-rise-less-than-forecast-in-october.html
Brazil ’s  consumer prices  rose less
than forecast in October as the central bank implements the
world’s biggest interest rate increase.  Inflation as measured by the benchmark IPCA index
accelerated to 0.57 percent from 0.35 percent in September, the
national statistics agency said. The gain was less than the
median  forecast  of 0.6 percent from 45 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Annual inflation slowed to 5.84 percent, surprising
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg who predicted it would
accelerate.  “It’s good news insofar as the annual rate is slowing, but
let’s not get too carried away,”  Neil Shearing , chief economist
for  emerging markets  at Capital Economics Ltd., said by phone
from  London . “What’s driving that slowdown is slowing annual
food inflation. Core inflation pressures remain strong and
that’s going to concern the central bank.”  The bank has increased interest rates this year faster than
any of the 49 economies tracked by Bloomberg to rein in
inflation that has remained above target throughout President
 Dilma Rousseff ’s term. Even as economic growth remains weak,
prices are being pressured by near record-low unemployment and a
weaker currency, which makes imports costlier. The government
has also extended tax breaks to consumers that, while boosting
demand, have diminished revenue and hampered fiscal accounts.  Standard & Poor’s  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2017 fell 4 basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 11.86 percent at 9:50 a.m.
local time. The real was little changed at 2.2885 per  U.S.
dollar .  Ratings agency  Standard & Poor’s  in June placed Brazil’s
rating on negative outlook, and Moody’s Investors Service last
month lowered its outlook to stable from positive, with fiscal
concerns partly provoking both actions. While deterioration in
fiscal policy or inflation may lead to a ratings downgrade, such
a move is unlikely in the next 18 months, Goldman Sachs’
chairman in Brazil, Paulo Leme, said at an event in  Sao Paulo  on
Nov. 1.  Brazil’s nominal budget gap in September widened to 22.9
billion reais as the public sector posted the biggest deficit
before interest payments in almost five years. A swift decline
in the primary surplus alongside the increase in real  interest
rates  will put pressure on debt dynamics ahead of presidential
elections next year, according to a report from JPMorgan
published Nov. 5.  Rate Increases  The central bank last month raised its benchmark Selic rate
to 9.5 percent, marking the fourth straight 50 basis point
increase following a quarter-point boost in April. The bank
targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage
points.  “High inflation rates reduce economic growth potential as
well as the generation of jobs and income,” central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said at an event in the city of
Fortaleza on Nov. 4. “ Monetary policy  must remain especially
vigilant.”  Inflation has also received assistance from government-controlled prices, which rose 0.14 percent in October, according
to  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco Mizuho do
Brasil SA. Transportation prices in October climbed 0.17
percent, down from 0.44 percent the prior month.  “The government continues with this strategy of trying to
control inflation by regulated prices,” Rostagno said by phone
from Sao Paulo. “We know this strategy is not sustainable, so
the central bank has no choice but to continue raising rates.”  Food Costs  Prices rose less than expected in October due to food and
services inflation, according to Carlos Kawall, chief economist
at Banco J. Safra. Food prices rose 1.03 percent in the month,
accounting for one-quarter of the overall increases. Service
costs gained 0.52 percent, he said.  The real weakened 10.33 percent this year, the third worst
performer amid the 16 most traded currencies after the Japanese
yen and the South African rand.  Economists polled by the central bank on Nov. 1 forecast
inflation will accelerate to 5.92 percent in 2014 as policy
makers raise the Selic to 10.25 percent. They forecast the real
will reach 2.4 per dollar next year.  Analysts in a weekly central bank survey have cut their
economic growth forecast for 2013 to 2.5 percent from 3.26
percent at the start of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  