-- Brent Falls to Four-Month Low as Euro Falls on ECB Cut
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-11-07T20:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/brent-falls-to-four-month-low-as-euro-falls-on-ecb-cut.html
Brent crude dropped to the lowest
level in more than four months as the euro tumbled against the
dollar after the European Central Bank unexpectedly cut its
benchmark rate to a record low.  The North Sea oil slipped 1.7 percent while West Texas
Intermediate crude declined 0.6 percent. ECB President Mario Draghi pledged to keep borrowing costs low for an “extended
period” in comments in  Frankfurt . The euro fell the most
against the U.S. currency in two years, reducing the appeal of
dollar-denominated raw materials as an investment. The slide
accelerated after the American economy grew more than forecast,
bolstering bets the Federal Reserve may curb stimulus.  “The stronger-than-expected U.S. GDP number and the
unexpected ECB rate cut are strengthening the dollar,” said Tim Evans, an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “A stronger dollar is generally associated with weaker
commodity prices across the board and we’re seeing oil take a
hit today.”  Brent crude for December settlement fell $1.78 to end the
session at $103.46 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. It was the lowest closing price since July 1.
The volume of all futures traded was 52 percent above the 100-day average at 3:57 p.m.  WTI dropped 60 cents to settle at $94.20 a barrel on the
New York Mercantile Exchange. Volume was 11 percent lower than
the 100-day average. The U.S. benchmark grade traded at a $9.26
discount to Brent, the narrowest at settlement since Oct. 25.  Market Contango  Both Brent and WTI are in contango, a situation in which
front-month futures are cheaper than the second month, amid
diverging views as to whether this pattern will be sustained
into 2014.  “The surprising ECB rate cut has sent Brent plunging, and
WTI should follow,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market
research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The
dollar is screaming higher and that’s going to hit commodity
markets.”  The euro slid as much as 1.6 percent to $1.3296, the lowest
level since Sept. 16. The S&P’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
slid by as much as 0.8 percent to 604.63, the least since June.  The ECB decided to cut its main refinancing rate today by a
quarter point to 0.25 percent. Just three of 70 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg anticipated the action.  Economic Growth  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2.8 percent
annualized rate in the third quarter after a 2.5 percent gain
the prior three months, a Commerce Department report showed
today in  Washington . The median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg called for a 2 percent advance.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 1 percent and the
Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 0.7 percent.  “Equities are also lower, which shows this is a broad-based move away from risk assets,” Evans said.  Price drops in the past week reflect “growing pains” as
the market adjusts to higher U.S. shale production, according to
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  U.S. crude  output  surged to 7.9 million
barrels a day as of Oct. 18, the most since 1989, the country’s
Energy Information Administration said. The combination of
horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has
unlocked supply trapped in shale formations in the central U.S.  “This sharp decline in global oil prices is not the start
of a significant shift in the global oil balance,”  Jeffrey Currie , the bank’s head of commodities research in New York,
said in an e-mailed report. “This adjustment process is likely
masking a very gentle tightening in the global balance.”  OPEC Barrels  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said it
underestimated the significance of the North American energy
boom as it tripled forecasts for shale oil produced there and
predicted a decline in demand for its own crude through to 2018.  The need for OPEC barrels will fall by 1.1 million barrels
a day to 29.2 million between 2013 and 2018, the Vienna-based
group said today in its annual World Oil Outlook. Oil output
from shale formations in the U.S. and  Canada  is seen climbing to
4.9 million barrels a day in 2018, compared with an estimate of
1.7 million barrels a day in last year’s report.  Elsewhere, the alleged fixing of oil prices is unlikely to
sway traders from using Brent crude as a benchmark for
transactions in the $5.7 trillion commodity market, according to
analysts and brokers from  London  to  Tokyo .  Manipulation Lawsuit  Four longtime traders claimed in a lawsuit that some of the
world’s biggest oil companies conspired with energy traders to
manipulate spot prices for Brent for more than a decade. The
case is one of at least seven U.S. lawsuits alleging price-fixing in the London-based Brent market and comes as global
regulators scrutinize financial measures after fining banks
about $2.5 billion for distorting other benchmarks.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
December was 19.6 percent, down from 20.8 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 488,758
contracts as of 3:57 p.m. It totaled 594,883 contracts
yesterday, 2.6 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.73 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  