-- Brent Falls to Lowest Since July on High Stocks, ECB Cut
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-11-07T13:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/brent-falls-to-lowest-since-july-on-warm-weather-across-europe.html
Brent crude dropped to its lowest
level in more than four months amid rising stockpiles in the
U.S. and after the European Central Bank unexpectedly cut its
benchmark rate to a record low.  The North Sea grade was down as much as 1.2 percent and
heading for a third day of declines. U.S. crude  inventories 
increased for a seventh week, expanding by 1.58 million barrels
to 385.4 million, according to the Energy Information
Administration. The dollar strengthened against the euro after
the ECB cut its main refinancing rate.  “Its a bit of a perfect storm for crude given very weak
Brent technical support, plentiful supplies and seasonally slow
refining demands,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB
Capital in  London , said. “A stronger dollar isn’t helping.”  Brent for December delivery fell as low as $104.01 a barrel
in electronic trading on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, and was at $104.24 at 1:40 p.m. The contract closed at
$105.24 yesterday, its lowest since July 2. The volume of all
futures traded was more than double the 100-day average.  West Texas Intermediate crude was down 26 cents at $94.54 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Brent, the European benchmark crude, was at a premium
of $9.70 to WTI compared with $10.44 yesterday, the narrowest
since Oct. 25.  Contango Views  Both Brent and WTI are in contango, a situation where
front-month futures are cheaper than the second month, amid
diverging views as to whether this pattern will be sustained
into 2014.  Temperatures through Nov. 10 will be as much as 3 degrees
Celsius (5.4 degrees Fahrenheit) higher than normal in western
Europe and the U.K. and 5 degrees warmer than usual in central
and eastern Europe, Byron Drew, lead forecaster MetraWeather in
Reading,  England , said Nov. 4. Four weather forecasters surveyed
by Bloomberg News since Oct. 30 predicted above-average European
temperatures for November.  October, the first month of the winter heating season in
temperate countries, was warmer than expected from the Iberian
peninsula to the U.K., MDA Information Systems LLC in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said in an e-mailed report.  “Downward pressure is coming from high stock levels in the
U.S., U.S. exports of products to Europe and a mild onset to
winter in the northern hemisphere,” said  Christopher Bellew , a
senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London.  Fuel Inventories   U.S. gasoline  stockpiles  shrank for a fourth week to 210
million barrels in the seven days ended Nov. 1, the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical unit, said yesterday in a
report. That’s the lowest level since November last year.  The U.S., the world’s largest oil consumer, will account
for about 21 percent of global oil demand this year, compared
with 11 percent for  China , forecasts from the International
Energy Agency show.  Distillate  inventories , including diesel and heating oil,
fell by 4.9 million barrels to 117.8 million, according to the
EIA. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey estimated a median drop of
1.5 million.  Price decreases in the past week reflect “growing pains”
as the market adjusts globally to higher U.S. shale production,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “This sharp decline in global oil prices is not the start
of a significant shift in the global oil balance,”  Jeffrey Currie , the bank’s head of commodities research in New York,
said in an e-mailed report. “This adjustment process is likely
masking a very gentle tightening in the global balance that we
still believe will become apparent as refineries come out of
maintenance, particularly should the return of Libyan oil
production continue to prove elusive.”  OPEC Outlook  The need for crude from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, which produces about 40 percent of the
world’s oil, will fall by 1.1 million barrels a day to 29.2
million barrels a day between 2013-18, the Vienna-based group
said today in its annual World Oil Outlook.  Oil production from shale formations in the U.S. and  Canada 
is seen climbing to 4.9 million barrels a day in 2018, compared
with an estimate of 1.7 million barrels a day in last year’s
report.  Elsewhere, the alleged fixing of oil prices is unlikely to
sway traders from using Brent crude as a benchmark for
transactions in the $5.7 trillion commodity market, according to
analysts and brokers from London to  Tokyo .  Four long-time traders claimed in a lawsuit that some of
the world’s biggest oil companies conspired with energy traders
to manipulate spot prices for Brent for more than a decade. The
case is one of at least seven U.S. lawsuits alleging price-fixing in the London-based Brent market and comes as global
regulators scrutinize financial measures after fining banks
about $2.5 billion for distorting other benchmarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  