-- Bristol-Myers Drops Research Areas in Shift to Cancer
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-11-08T21:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/bristol-myers-drops-research-areas-in-shift-to-cancer.html
Bristol-Myers (BMY)  Squibb Co., the
drugmaker whose stock has outgained its peers in the past 12
months, will overhaul its research programs and end new work in
diabetes, hepatitis C and neuroscience.  The move will let Bristol-Myers pour more resources into
immune system-based cancer therapies, which the company sees as
a promising field that could revolutionize treatment. It will
end “broad based discovery work” in the other areas, the
company said in a  statement  on its website.  “We are focusing our R&D organization on delivering the
opportunities where the value is greatest to patients,” Francis Cuss, the New York-based company’s head of research and
development, said yesterday in announcing the changes.  Bristol-Myers has been the  top performer  among its
pharmaceutical peers in the last 12 months, gaining 63 percent,
largely on promising data for its experimental cancer
treatments. The shares rose 2.1 percent to $52.35 at 4 p.m. New
York time.  Outside of cancer, the company has faced drug development
setbacks and slowing sales. A hepatitis C compound acquired
through the purchase of Inhibitex Inc. in 2012 failed in
testing, resulting in a $1.9 billion charge. Demand has been
slow for its diabetes drugs, marketed with London-based
AstraZeneca Plc, and U.S. regulators rejected an experimental
diabetes treatment, Forxiga, for approval.  “The company will focus investment on priority areas such
as immuno-oncology, delivering its late-stage pipeline across
all its therapeutic areas and focusing discovery to explore
disease areas of highest unmet medical need where the company
can bring the greatest value,” Bristol-Myers said in the
statement.  Early Testing  Of the 16 compounds Bristol-Myers lists on its website as
in the first stage of clinical development, six are for cancer.
One is for diabetes, and two for neuroscience.  The two neuroscience compounds in the first phase of trials
probably will be cut, Laura Hortas, a company spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail. “They are still being evaluated but we will
likely be winding down those programs,” she said.  While the company isn’t closing any facilities, about 70 to
75 jobs will be eliminated, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  