-- Canada Uses Protest Lesson to Develop C$50B Ring of Fire
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-11-07T20:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/canada-uses-protest-lesson-to-develop-c-50b-ring-of-fire.html
The Canadian federal minister
overseeing projects to develop C$50 billion ($48 billion) of
mineral deposits said he’ll use lessons learned from aboriginal
protests to temper resistance that has slowed other projects.  Increased job training, infrastructure and participation in
environmental reviews are helping build trust with aboriginal
communities adjacent to the so-called Ring of Fire deposits in
northern Ontario, Greg Rickford said in an interview. The Idle
No More protest movement that emerged last year showed anger
with “politics at every level” and demonstrated that
aboriginals want to share the benefits of resource development,
he said.  The protests “give us important guidance on how to
proceed, and we have been following that playbook,” Rickford,
minister responsible for Ring of Fire and economic development
in northern Ontario, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Ottawa
newsroom.  While Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has said he wants
 Canada  to become an energy superpower, those efforts have been
slowed by protests against projects such as Enbridge Inc.’s
Northern Gateway pipeline to bring Alberta oil to the west coast
for export. Development of the Ring of Fire by companies like
Cleveland-based  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF)  and  Noront
Resources Ltd. (NOT)  of Toronto have also been slowed by disputes over
 road construction .  Rickford said it is up to Ontario to resolve those issues.
“I have had very frequent, very serious and very frank
discussions with both Cliffs and Noront,” he said. Disputes
about roads “are squarely within the provincial jurisdiction,”
he said.  May Reconsider  Cliffs may reconsider its project unless the province
grants road access to the site,  Canadian Press  reported Oct. 21,
citing an interview with vice president William Boor. Cliffs
didn’t immediately respond to e-mail messages today.  “The federal government’s roles and responsibilities at
this point in time in the Ring of Fire ought to be focused on
things like job readiness, aboriginal skills training,”
Rickford said in the interview.  The federal government is also in charge of an
environmental review and there are “very positive” signs of
aboriginal support, Rickford said. “We want to do this right,
it has to be inclusive,” he said.  The Ring of Fire is an area about 1,200 kilometers (740
miles) north of  Chicago , and holds deposits of nickel and copper
that may be worth between C$30 billion and C$50 billion, the
government said in March. Mining could create 5,500 jobs from
 North America ’s biggest deposit of chromite, which is used to
make stainless steel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  