-- Canadian Currency Weakens as U.S. Growth Fuels Fed Speculation
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-07T22:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/canadian-currency-weakens-as-u-s-economy-expands-ecb-cuts-rate.html
Canada ’s dollar fell after data
showed the economy of the U.S., the nation’s biggest trade
partner, grew more than forecast, bolstering bets the Federal
Reserve will slow monetary stimulus sooner than predicted.  The currency erased earlier gains after the  European
Central Bank  unexpectedly cut  interest rates  to a record low to
head off the threat of deflation. Losses were tempered before a
 report  tomorrow forecast to show Canada added jobs in October
for a third straight month. The  U.S. dollar  gained versus most
major peers after America’s gross domestic product expanded at
the fastest pace in a year. Commodities and stocks fell.  “Every time there’s good news, the market thinks, ’Oh no,
there’s not going to be as much cheap money,’” Jane Foley,
senior currency strategist at Rabobank International, said by
phone from  London . “The market associates the loonie with
commodity prices, and cheap money underpins speculative demand,
risk appetite. Better demand for commodities is associated with
that, and the Canadian dollar can be associated with that.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.4 percent
to C$1.0462 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It advanced
0.1 percent earlier. One Canadian dollar buys 95.58 U.S. cents.  The benchmark 10-year government  bond  rose, pushing yields
down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.52
percent. The price of the 1.5 percent security maturing in June
2023 added 15 cents to C$91.43.  The  Bank of Canada  said it will auction C$1.4 billion ($1.3
billion) of bonds on Nov. 13. The 3.5 percent government
securities mature in December 2045.  Options Trading  Trading surged today in over-the-counter foreign-exchange
options on the U.S.-Canada-dollar  exchange rate . It totaled $4
billion, or 8 percent of trades, according to data reported by
U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing Corp. and tracked by
Bloomberg. That was 375 percent more than the average for the
past five Thursdays at a similar time in the day.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. peer rose to a three-week high. The three-month
so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate reached 1.32 percent, the
highest level since Oct. 17. Risk reversals measure the premium
on options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S.
contracts that do the opposite.  Futures of crude oil, Canada’s largest export, dropped as
much as 1.1 percent to $93.80 a barrel in  New York , almost a
four-month intraday low, and Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw
materials fell 0.8 percent. The S&P 500 Index of U.S. stocks
slid 1.3 percent.  ‘Coming Off’  “You have commodities coming off today, stocks coming off
today -- all else being equal, you’re going to have dollar-Canada higher,” said Adam Button, a currency analyst at
forexlive.com, by phone from  Montreal .  U.S. GDP rose at a 2.8 percent annualized rate in the third
quarter after a 2.5 percent gain the prior three months, a
Commerce Department report showed in  Washington . Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg projected a 2 percent advance.  “What you’ve seen is upward pressure on any U.S. dollar
cross as the market has decided that betting against the buck
might not be the wisest move,” Brad Schruder, director of
foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal, said by telephone from
Toronto. “That outperformance of the American economy has
forced a reassessment of how the  Federal Reserve  will move ahead
with their plans and their timing around tapering.”  The Fed buys $85 billion of bonds each month to push down
long-term yields and spur growth, an effort that tends to fuel
risk appetite while debasing the greenback. The central bank
said Oct. 30 it would maintain the purchases as it awaited
further evidence of economic progress. A Bloomberg survey last
month forecast the Fed will begin showing purchases in March.  ECB Cut  The loonie reversed an early advance after ECB policy
makers meeting in  Frankfurt  reduced the main  refinancing rate  by
a quarter-percentage point to 0.25 percent. The decision was
predicted by three of 70 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .
Central-bank President  Mario Draghi  warned the euro area risks a
“prolonged period” of low inflation after it faded to 0.7
percent in October, the slowest in four years.  Canada’s currency fell 0.4 percent over the past week
against nine developed-market currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar was little
changed.  The Canadian economy added 11,000 jobs in October after a
gain of 11,900 the  month before , according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 22 economists before a report
tomorrow. Separate data will show work  started  on 190,800 new
homes in Canada in October, from 193,600 new homes the months
before, a Bloomberg survey forecast.  Employment growth in the U.S. slowed last month, a
government report tomorrow is projected to show. American
employers added 120,000 jobs, versus 148,000 in September,
economists polled by Bloomberg estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  