-- Carbon Rises as Bulgaria Signals Support for Market Fix Tomorrow
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-11-07T17:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/carbon-rises-as-bulgaria-signals-support-for-market-fix-tomorrow.html
European Union carbon permits for
December rose after Bulgaria, Luxembourg and the  Czech Republic 
indicated they will back a mandate to start talks with the
European Parliament on a plan to help boost emission prices.  The benchmark contract gained as much as 2.1 percent to
4.88 euros ($6.55) a metric ton on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. EU member states are almost certain tomorrow to adopt
as their negotiating position the market fix as amended by the
Parliament, according to  Lithuania , which holds the bloc’s
rotating presidency.  “I think most of the buying today has been from compliance
companies looking to acquire allowances before they become any
more expensive,” Krzysztof Piatek, a trader at Vertis
Environmental Finance in Budapest, said by phone. “Speculators
have probably already purchased ahead of tomorrow’s vote and are
probably waiting for a further increase before adding to their
positions.”  Prices fell to a record 2.46 euros a ton in April as a
surplus of permits swelled to 1.8 billion tons, according to the
European Commission, the bloc’s regulator. The measure as
approved by the Parliament in July temporarily reduces supply
sold at future auctions by 900 million tons and limits the
planned intervention in the emissions market to a one-time move.  EU carbon permits for delivery in December closed 0.4
percent higher at 4.80 euros, extending their advance to 3.9
percent this week.  Single Act  Ambassadors from EU member states will probably decide
about the mandate, which is needed to advance work on the
emissions-market rescue plan, at around 10:30 a.m. Brussels time
tomorrow, according to the presidency.  Bulgaria  said today it won’t object to the proposal by
Lithuania if there are no further changes to the text. The
version of the market fix adopted by the Parliament doesn’t
contradict Bulgaria’s position, under which a temporary delay in
permit supply should remain a single act with a limited impact
in the 2013-2020 period, said a government official, who asked
not to be identified, citing policy.  Luxembourg will also back the mandate, a government
official said. Other supporters of the market fix, known as
backloading, include  Germany ,  France , the U.K.,  Denmark ,  Finland 
and the Netherlands.  To block the proposal, opponents would need to muster 93
out of 352 government votes in the EU weighted-ballot system.
Countries that were against backloading during previous meetings
of diplomats in Brussels include Poland, Cyprus and  Greece .
Those three have a total 43 votes.  Spain , where the government hasn’t decided on backloading
yet, has 27 votes. Abstentions count as votes against a measure
in the EU system.  Should member states agree on the mandate, the next step
will be to reconcile the final version of the measure with a
representation of the European Parliament in negotiations that
also involve the European Commission, known as trialogue. The
outcome of those talks will require approval by the assembly and
ministers from national governments before the backloading
measure becomes law.  At the next stage, governments will decide on separate
regulations setting out the details of the auction delays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in  London  at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  