-- Cardenas Says Financial Risks Curb Scope for Colombia Stimulus
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-11-07T20:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/cardenas-says-financial-risks-curb-scope-for-colombia-stimulus.html
Colombian policy makers are
constrained in their ability to offset weak global demand with
monetary stimulus due to the risks excess borrowing might pose
to the country’s financial system, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said.  At the same time, the Andean nation’s laws limiting the
size of budget deficits reduce the scope for fiscal policy,
Cardenas told a meeting of National Association of Financial
Institutions in Bogota. The government is instead betting that
private investment in transport and communications will take up
the slack over the next few years, Cardenas said.  “There isn’t much room for counter-cyclical fiscal policy,
nor is there much room for counter-cyclical monetary policy,”
Cardenas said. “From the inflation point of view, you could do
it, but you also have to take care that there aren’t excessive
levels of debt, and that you don’t generate a lot of risk.”  Colombia  cut its  policy rate  by 2 percentage points between
July 2012 and March, the most in  Latin America . Cardenas said
recent data show the economy gaining speed in the second half of
the year, supporting his forecast that the economy will grow 4.5
percent this year, its fastest pace since 2011.  Tail Winds  The favorable “tail winds” from the world economy that
have supported Colombian growth in recent years will probably
slow, Cardenas said. In an earlier speech at the same event,
central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said that weaker growth
in  China  could mean lower prices for oil, the Colombia’s biggest
export.  Outstanding loans  rose 15.9 percent in August from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in 12 months, while  home prices  rose
12 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, to a
record high, according to the central bank. Adjusted for
 inflation , homes are now 14 percent more expensive than they
were at their previous record in 1989.  The annual  inflation  rate last month unexpectedly fell
below the lower bound of its target range for the first time in
7 months. Consumer prices rose 1.84 percent in October, slower
than predicted by all 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, and the
second-lowest rate since the government of dictator General
Gustavo Rojas Pinilla in 1955.  Cardenas, who chairs the central bank’s seven-member policy
committee, has often found himself in a minority in arguing for
more interest rate cuts. In an e-mailed reply to questions
yesterday, he said the economy may not need any more stimulus.  “Sleeping Easier”  The recent fall in the peso, even after the central bank
scaled back its dollar purchase program at its September policy
meeting, has more benefits than costs for the economy, and is
helping him to sleep at nights, Cardenas said. The currency has
fallen 8.4 percent this year to 1,928.53 per  U.S. dollar .  “I feel very satisfied that the  exchange rate  is remaining
weaker than 1,900 without so much intervention,” he said.
“Looking at a long-term cycle, these are the last opportunities
to buy a cheap dollar.”  The central bank bought an average of $10.4 million per day
this month, down from $35.7 million in September.  The peso
probably won’t revalue, Cardenas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net  