-- Career Education Settlement Gets Preliminary Approval
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-11-07T19:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/career-education-settlement-gets-preliminary-approval.html
Career Education Corp. and investors
who sued the for-profit college operator for making misleading
statements about graduates’ job-placement rates received
preliminary court approval of a $27.5 million settlement.  U.S. District Judge John Darrah’s order yesterday
tentatively approving the accord was posted today on the  Chicago 
federal court’s electronic docket. The judge scheduled a final
approval hearing for April 3.  “It was a good settlement,” investors’ attorney  James
Hughes , a partner at Mount Pleasant, South Carolina-based Motley
Rice LLC, said today in a phone interview. “A good settlement
is a settlement in which neither side is happy.”  The Schaumburg, Illinois-based company continues to deny
wrongdoing and liability, according to court papers seeking
Darrah’s approval. Mark Spencer, a Career Education spokesman,
didn’t immediately reply to voice-mail messages seeking comment
on the accord.  Career Education is one of several for-profit education
companies whose job-placement rate claims have been investigated
by state and federal officials. The rates are a factor
considered by agencies granting schools accreditation required
for access to student loan funding.  Shareholder Sues  Stockholder Thurman Ross sued Career Education last year,
claiming the company and its executives inflated placement rates
and made misleading statements in U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission  filings.   In a later complaint consolidating similar claims, the lead
plaintiffs became KBC Asset Management NV, a unit of Brussels-based  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , and the Oklahoma Law Enforcement Retirement
System.  In addition to yesterday’s order in the Ross-filed case,
Darrah also tentatively approved a settlement of three lawsuits
filed by investors on behalf of the company that accused its
former chief executive officer, Gary McCullough, and other board
members of breaching their fiduciary duty.  Under that accord, in exchange for a $20 million payment
from insurers, Career Education will implement management
reforms for four years to strengthen board independence and
improve its compliance oversight and the directors’ educational
competence, according to court papers.  Final approval of that settlement also is set to be
considered on April 3.  The cases are Ross v.  Career Education Corp. (CECO) , 12-cv-00276,
and Cook, derivatively on behalf of Career Education Corp. v.
McCullough, 11-cv-09119, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  