-- Carrefour Confirms Talks to Buy Klepierre Shopping Malls
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-11-07T20:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/carrefour-confirms-talks-to-buy-klepierre-shopping-malls.html
Carrefour SA (CA) ,  France ’s biggest
retailer, confirmed that it is in talks to buy shopping malls 
from Klepierre SA.  The companies haven’t yet reached an agreement,  Boulogne
Billancourt , France-based Carrefour said in a statement after
the market closed. A further announcement will be made should
there be a significant change to the discussions.  Carrefour plans to borrow 850 million euros ($1.1 billion)
from banks for the transaction and has mandated BNP Paribas and
Kempen to find about a half dozen institutional investors for
the rest, Le Figaro newspaper reported today, without saying
where it got the information. Carrefour and Klepierre want to
finalize a deal by the end of the year, according to Le Figaro.  The grocer’s stock  declined  1.2 percent today, while Paris-based  Klepierre (LI)  rose 0.9 percent. Klepierre also confirmed the
talks after the market closed.  Carrefour is refurbishing outlets and maintaining low
prices on food to make its largest store format more attractive
amid competition from shops in city centers and online. French
hypermarket sales rose for the first time in more than two years
in the third quarter as Carrefour’s turnaround gathered pace, it
said last month.  Klepierre, Europe’s second-largest publicly traded
shopping-mall operator, said in July 2012 it planned to raise 1
billion euros from asset sales by the end of 2013 by disposing
of offices to focus on malls. The real-estate investment trust
said last month it has completed or reached agreements to sell
900 million euros of assets since the plan was announced.  Buying some of Klepierre’s smaller, underperforming
shopping malls would make sense for Carrefour as it would give
the retailer control of the sites around its hypermarkets,
according to Exane BNP Paribas.  ‘Need to Invest’  “You need to make the overall site more attractive for it
to work better for the hypermarket, so that’s what it’s about,”
said John Kershaw, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, who expects
that the reported transaction would be negative short-term for
Carrefour shareholders. “This reminds you that you need to
invest as well as to sell businesses.”  Carrefour is focusing on  Europe ,  Latin America  and  China 
after retrenching from markets where it viewed prospects as
weak. In August, Chief Executive Officer Georges Plassat said
the grocer “should consider our buildings as an activity, as a
business.”  “Real-estate is something that is absolutely essential for
retail provided that you use the real-estate for the business
itself,” Plassat said Aug. 29. “You need to invest in order to
get proper profitability.”  Carrefour revived and shelved a plan to spin off its
property assets in 2011 amid opposition from shareholders and
unions. The plan was to list a 25 percent stake in the French
retailer’s real-estate in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  