-- Caviar Denial Signals Growing Angst Over Deficit: Brazil Credit
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-11-07T15:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/caviar-denial-signals-growing-angst-over-deficit-brazil-credit.html
Brazil’s soaring budget deficit is
sparking a selloff in its two-week-old international bonds,
pushing up the cost of insuring its debt by the most in the
world and prompting Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to explain
that he doesn’t spend taxpayer money on caviar and shrimp meals.  The country’s $3.25 billion of bonds due 2025 have tumbled
3.01 cents since they were issued Oct. 23, increasing yields by
0.35 percentage point to 4.66 percent. Yields on government debt
in emerging markets rose an average 0.23 percentage point in the
same span. Brazil’s credit-default swaps have jumped 11 percent
in the past month, the most among 73 countries, according to
data compiled by CMA Ltd.  Investors are becoming more concerned Brazil will suffer
its first credit downgrade in a decade after the nation posted
the biggest revenue  shortfall  in four years Oct. 31, the latest
sign fiscal accounts in  Latin America ’s biggest economy are
deteriorating.  Standard & Poor’s  placed Brazil’s BBB rating on
negative outlook in June, citing surging debt and sluggish
growth.  “The concern of a downgrade is much more evident because
of fiscal slippage,”  Siobhan Morden , the head of Latin America
strategy at Jefferies Group LLC in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “The government isn’t in control of fiscal accounts.
It’s difficult to restore confidence in fiscal management when
there is inconsistency on all policy and data shows consistent
fiscal deterioration.”  Spending Scrutiny  The scrutiny of public spending even led to questioning of
Mantega’s meals this week after  Contas Abertas , a non-governmental group that monitors fiscal accounts, disclosed Nov.
4 the menu options offered on official flights. The ministry
responded with a statement saying Mantega has never chosen the
caviar and that he pays for his meals when he does eat on the
flights.  A ministry press official declined to comment further.  The declines in Brazilian markets deepened after the
government reported last week a deficit of 10.5 billion reais
($4.6 billion) in September, exceeding the 500 million real
deficit forecast by 17 economists in a survey by Bloomberg.  As a percentage of gross domestic product, the  deficit 
increased to 3.3 percent in the 12 months ended September, the
largest since 2009. The primary surplus, which excludes interest
payments, shrank to 1.6 percent, short of the government’s 2.3
percent target.  ‘Full Control’  “The government has full control of the fiscal
situation,” Mantega told reporters in Brasilia yesterday. “We
just had a more difficult year, because economic activity is
recovering.”  Analysts in a weekly central bank survey have cut their
economic growth forecast for 2013 to 2.5 percent from 3.26
percent at the start of the year.  Annual  inflation  slowed to 5.84 percent in October from
5.86 percent the previous month, a government report showed
today. The rate remains more than one percentage point above the
country’s 4.5 percent target.  “Markets are kind of skeptical of the way they’re meeting
the fiscal target,”  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin America strategist
at Bank of  Nova Scotia , said in a telephone interview from
Toronto. “People want to see concrete plans to meet fiscal
targets.”  BNDES Spending  To shore up finances, Mantega said on Nov. 1 that state
development bank BNDES will reduce lending 20 percent next year.
Government-controlled banks have boosted lending at five times
the pace of privately run counterparts this year as part of an
effort to revive economic growth. The government also said it
will unwind tax breaks on  consumer goods .  Mantega said he’s reviewing all spending and is looking
into an increase in outlays on  unemployment benefits , which may
reach 47 billion reais this year, or about 1 percent of GDP.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook on  Brazil ’s
rating to stable from positive last month, citing state-bank
lending and rising debt levels. Brazil’s public debt-to-GDP
 ratio  of 59 percent compares with a median of 45 percent for
other nations that share its Baa2 rating, the second-lowest
investment grade. S&P rates Brazil an equivalent BBB.  Moody’s officials declined to comment on the growing
deficit. A S&P press official didn’t return requests seeking
comment.  Default-swap contracts that protect holders of Brazil’s
debt against non-payment for five years have risen 20 basis
points, or 0.20 percentage point, in the past month.  The real has dropped 2.2 percent in the past week, the most
among major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It
was little changed at 2.2898 per dollar at 1:25 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo .  Government Wherewithal  Alberto Ramos , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s chief Latin
America economist, said the central bank’s $376 billion of
foreign reserves mean the government has the wherewithal to
weather the slump in its currency.  “It’s not like this story is going to end up in tears,”
Ramos said in a telephone interview. “They have talked the
talk. Now they have to walk the walk.”  Brazilian assets are at risk of further declines if the
U.S. begins to scale back stimulus, prompting investors to pull
out of emerging markets, according to Alejandro Urbina, who
helps oversee $800 million in assets at Silva Capital Management
in  Chicago .  “Brazil is seen as a weak story in  emerging markets ,”
Urbina said in an e-mailed response to questions. “After having
strong fundamentals in the past, now it’s showing signs of
weakness. It’s becoming an easier credit to sell compared with
others.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  