-- Chinese-Americans Compare Jimmy Kimmel to Hitler
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-11-07T01:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/chinese-americans-compare-jimmy-kimmel-to-hitler.html
Sometimes  something  happens in the
U.S. that barely registers there but matters a great deal in
China. Just ask Jimmy Kimmel.  The comedian has become a symbol of perceived American
prejudices against Chinese and Chinese-Americans, thanks to a
 segment  during the  Oct. 16  episode of his late-night talk show
on ABC, “ Jimmy Kimmel Live !” The notion that such
discrimination exists has long festered in Chinese newspapers
and on the country’s microblogs (not to mention in private
conversations) -- often with references to  historical precedents 
such as the late 19th century’s  Chinese Exclusion Act , whereby
Chinese immigration to the U.S. was severely restricted. Kimmel
inadvertently provided a contemporary example of  such bias .  The offending bit occurred in a segment called “Kids
Table,” which featured young children commenting on current
events with Kimmel moderating like a Sunday morning talk-show
host. Kimmel prodded the children on the repercussions of the
U.S. government shutdown.  “America owes  China  a lot of money, $1.3 trillion. How
should we pay them back?” Kimmel asks. Immediately, one of the
children, a six-year-old, offers an answer that concludes,
“Kill everyone in China.” Kimmel chuckles and responds,
“That’s an interesting idea.” Later, Kimmel asks: “Should we
allow the Chinese to live?” The children appear to be split --
but Kimmel still gives them space to discuss the merits of doing
so. It’s an offensive segment, and one that Kimmel and his
producers should never have allowed to air.  In one sense, it’s not hard to understand why the Chinese
and Chinese-American communities were so upset. Nationally
televised jokes about racial extermination, even when made by
six- and seven-year-olds, are rarely funny, especially if
they’re directed at you. Even though to Americans (and probably
to Kimmel) it might sound over the top to claim a child was
publically advocating genocide, that’s what many Chinese heard.  One of the most common Chinese responses to the segment has
been to equate it with anti-Jewish Nazi propaganda. (It’s worth
noting that Jews and Judaism are  widely admired  in China, an
interest that has  generated  a small publishing trend.) “Chinese
believe that these words of racial discrimination are similar to
those used by the Nazis in the 1930s,” Yang Yanqi, a Beijing
school teacher,  wrote  in the influential state-owned Beijing
Youth Daily newspaper on Nov. 1.  The same day, Yi Yixian, a Chinese-American columnist with
the independent-minded  business magazine Caijing , invoked
 cartoon caricatures  of Jews that were published in Germany and
 Austria  during the 1930s: “It is certainly impossible to kill
all Chinese. But the open broadcast of such hateful remarks
rings an alarm for Chinese-Americans. The persecution toward
Jews originated with smears in cartoons.”  The Nazi comparison has had many over-the-top moments (if
it wasn’t overblown from the start). Protesters outside Kimmel’s
studio carried  placards  depicting the comedian as Hitler. One
 Facebook page , “Investigate Jimmy Kimmel Kid’s Table Show on
ABC Network,” features a picture of Kimmel seated next to a
Nazi flag and a banner declaring “Genocide can never be a
joke!” Though Facebook is officially blocked in China, the page
has been “liked” more than 7,700 times (strongly suggesting
support from outside the country, as well from those in mainland
China with  virtual private networks and other means  around the
Great Firewall). And someone in  Texas  established a  White House
petition  that’s drawn widespread attention in China; it calls
for the program to be “cut,” invokes Nazi allusions and just
surpassed the 100,000 signatures needed to trigger an official
response.  Nevertheless, the numerous references to Nazis are but one
manifestation of a pervasive sense, in the wake of the segment’s
broadcast, that China and Chinese-Americans aren’t fully
respected in American society, especially compared with other
immigrant groups. Such Chinese frustrations are sometimes
expressed with a candor that many in the U.S. might find
impolite or socially intolerable. (In China, racial discussions
and comparisons that might make Americans squirm are often
perfectly acceptable.) For example, on Oct. 29, Yang Fei, a
reporter with state-owned China Radio International,  noted :
“The U.S. has a double standard. Discrimination against
African-Americans and Jews is considered politically incorrect,
while remarks that insult China appear again and again. This
deeply rooted discrimination is terrifying.”  On Oct. 27, a user of Sina Weibo, China’s most popular
microblogging service, who identifies himself as located
“overseas”  tweeted : “But if those kids said kill the blacks,
Muslims or Jews, I think ABC would delete their words. Even if
ABC dared to broadcast it, the other minorities wouldn’t stand
for it. This is my personal experience living in the U.S.”  The anger didn’t seem to upset ABC or Kimmel, at least
initially. The network waited until Oct. 25 to send out its
apology as a  faxed letter  to the 80-20 National Asian American
Political Action Committee. (The letter indicates there was an
earlier attempt at a phoned apology.) In it, ABC claims that it
would never purposely upset “the Chinese community, Asian
community, anyone of Chinese descent or any community at
large.” The letter also mentions that the clip has been taken
down from the network’s platforms and removed from future
broadcasts of the show (it remains widely available on the
Chinese Internet). Since then, 80-20 has made ABC’s apology the
centerpiece of an  awkward fundraising appeal  that concludes:
“To live with the dignity of Jewish Americans, we need to
DONATE like Jewish Americans!” On Oct. 28, under growing
pressure, Kimmel  made an on-air apology , stating, “It was
certainly not my intent to upset anyone.” Two days later,
Kimmel  met with and apologized to  protesters at his studio.  In China, these apologies have done little to convince
commentators that the underlying cause of the segment -- a
discriminatory attitude toward Chinese and Chinese-Americans --
has changed. In recent days, some commentators in China’s state
news media have begun framing the issue in political terms. On
Oct. 31, the nationalist state-owned Global Times newspaper ran
a  commentary  in which the Kimmel episode was framed as an
example of a “dated mindset” that still embraces  American
exceptionalism  while disregarding -- and disrespecting --
China’s rise. Yang Yanqi, in her Beijing Youth Daily commentary,
notes the  protests  by Chinese-Americans and attributes them in
part to ethnic pride.  Whatever the cause of the protests, and the outrage that
precipitated them, there’s little question that Kimmel and ABC
will tread more carefully when looking east for future laughs.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is the author of “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry that will be published in November.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 