-- China’s First ETF in New York to Lure Investors, SG’s Poh Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-11-07T07:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/china-s-first-etf-in-new-york-to-lure-investors-sg-s-poh-says.html
The first U.S. exchange-traded fund
tracking  China ’s domestic stocks will lure investors seeking
exposure to a broad range of industries in the biggest emerging
economy, according to  Societe Generale  SA’s private bank.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s wealth-management unit and Harvest
Global Investments Ltd. started trading an ETF in  New York 
yesterday that tracks the performance of the nation’s 300
biggest companies in the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges.
The db X-trackers Harvest CSI 300  rose  to $24.80 yesterday.  “There are a lot more domestic companies that are listed
in the A-shares market that we as foreign investors cannot
touch,” David Poh, the regional head of portfolio-management
solutions at Societe Generale’s private bank, said by phone in
 Singapore  today. “Some of them are really good companies listed
in Shanghai and Shenzhen that are not listed in  Hong Kong .”  China is giving greater access to foreign investors as it
promotes usage of its currency worldwide and seeks to revive a
stock market that has been among the world’s worst performing
major bourses in the past three years. The CSI 300, as well as
the Shanghai Composite Index, has fallen 35 percent since the
start of 2010.  The ETF will allow investors to tap into Chinese consumer
stocks, the best-performing industry group in the CSI 300 over
the past three months. A gauge of consumer-discretionary stocks,
which accounts for 11.1 percent of the CSI 300, has jumped 12
percent, the most among 10 groups. The Bloomberg China-US Equity
Index gained 9.3 percent, while the Hang Seng China Enterprises
index of Hong Kong-listed Chinese stocks advanced 9.4 percent.  Consumer Exposure  President  Xi Jinping  and Premier Li Keqiang are trying to
transform China into a consumer-led economy from an exporter
reliant on a managed currency. Li has championed urbanization as
a “huge engine” for growth as he encourages rural workers to
move to cities and boost spending. Communist Party leaders will
enter a policy-making summit this week to map out a blueprint
for reform.  “With A-shares, you get much more exposure to companies
that are more consumers and domestically focused,” Martin Kremenstein, head of Passive Asset Management for Deutsche Asset
& Wealth Management Americas, said in a Bloomberg radio
interview yesterday. “When you look at the Chinese five-year
plan, it was designed to increase consumption. You really do
want exposure to consumer stocks and domestically-focused
businesses.”  Krane Fund Advisors LLC is also partnering with Bosera
Asset Management Co. to offer an A-share ETF on the New York
Stock Exchange, according to a Nov. 5 statement. A  Kraneshares
ETF (KFYP)  that tracks mostly Hong Kong companies that will benefit
from China’s Five-Year Plan has climbed 17 percent since its
July 17 start.  “The new leadership appears focused on implementing a
strong foundation to support stable long-term economic growth,”
Brendan Ahern, New York-based managing director of Krane Fund
Advisers, said in an interview in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  