-- China Muni-Bond Stalling Shows Debt Threat as Party Meets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-08T08:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/china-muni-bond-stalling-shows-debt-threat-as-party-meets.html
Two years after  China  started a trial
municipal-bond program, plans to take it nationwide have
stalled, leaving local authorities reliant on off-budget funding
fueled partly by land seizures.  While authorities added two provinces to the trial this
year, a draft budget proposal authorizing national sales with
approved quotas was dropped in June 2012 and has yet to be
revived. This year’s municipal-bond issuance is equivalent to
less than 1 percent of local-government borrowing as of 2010,
the last official tally.  President  Xi Jinping  has a fresh opportunity to accelerate
efforts to provide more transparent funding for everything from
roads to sewers in a conclave of Communist Party leaders that
begins tomorrow. While trade data today added to signs of
strength in the economy, leaving in place the current model of
local borrowing may elevate the risk of a bad-debt crisis.  “The longer they put off solutions, the weaker they could
get in terms of their  financial  position,” said  Fraser Howie ,
Singapore-based co-author of “Red Capitalism: The Fragile
Financial Foundation of China’s Extraordinary Rise.” Developing
municipal bonds “would be a very clear sign that they were
serious about tackling local government finances,” he said.  Third Plenum  The four-day gathering will be the third full meeting of
the party’s current  Central Committee , including General
Secretary Xi and Premier  Li Keqiang . It was at such a third
plenum in 1978 that  Deng Xiaoping  and his allies inaugurated a
series of reforms that began to open up China to foreign
investment and loosen state controls over the economy.  This year’s meeting “is expected to be a watershed as
drastic economic policies will be unveiled,” according to a
Nov. 4 news analysis by the official Xinhua News Agency.  The  Finance Ministry , which oversees local-government bond
issuance, didn’t respond to faxed questions from  Bloomberg News .  China’s  exports  rose more than estimated in October from a
year earlier after an unexpected decline in the previous month,
while import gains accelerated, customs figures showed today.
Data tomorrow on inflation, industrial production, investment
and retail sales will give more indication of whether last
quarter’s recovery is being sustained and how much room leaders
have to maneuver.  Building Spree  A building spree has helped maintain China’s economic
growth following the global recession. Loans were obtained
through more than 10,000 financing vehicles cities created to
get around laws prohibiting them from borrowing, according to a
central bank count.  Of 186 local authorities that issued bonds or short-term
notes through financing vehicles in the first nine months of
2011, more than 100 said they engage in “chaiqian,” a word
referring to government demolition of homes. Nationwide,
official data show income for local governments from selling
land-use rights totaled 7 trillion yuan from 2006 through 2010,
according to the book “China’s Superbank” by Bloomberg News
journalists  Henry Sanderson  and Michael Forsythe.  Local governments’ seizures of farmland for property
development have been a trigger for protests. China has 30,000
to 50,000 so-called mass incidents a year, with land disputes
and environmental issues the main triggers, Chen Jiping, former
vice general secretary of the Communist Party’s Committee of
Political and Legislative Affairs, said in March.  Reform Puzzle  Expanding the local-bond market is one piece in a jigsaw
puzzle of fiscal and financial reforms that also include changes
to interest-rate controls and a residence-registration system
that limits labor mobility.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News said changes to local-government funding were most urgent, when asked to choose from
11 priorities. The State Council in July ordered the most
comprehensive audit of government debt in two years. Standard
Chartered Plc estimates regional borrowing has increased since
2010 to as much as 24.4 trillion  yuan  ($4 trillion).  Expectations for action are high. Twelve of 23 respondents
to the survey last month said local-government funding was one
of the three most likely areas to see significant reforms in the
next 12 months.  The State Council, or cabinet, can expand the local-bond
pilot program as desired, and its research arm is calling for
permitting more regional-bond sales. Bond sales, under the
control of the central government and local legislature, will
probably be allowed to replace borrowing by local-government
financing vehicles, Credit Suisse Group AG says.  Clear Direction  “The direction is very clear: Local governments will have
to follow market practices in their financing activities and
investment activities,” said An Guojun, a researcher with the
government-run  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences  in Beijing.  “At the same time, the development of a proper municipal-bond market in China depends on many other factors,” from
trustworthy credit ratings to governance, said An, who served on
a bond-market advisory committee to the National Association of
Financial Market Institutional Investors.  Signals are increasing that authorities want to limit debt.
The People’s Bank of China said in a report this week that the
economy “may see a decline in leverage” over a relatively long
period of time, a suggestion that UBS AG said hadn’t been
previously mentioned by a government economic agency.  1994 System  China’s local governments are responsible for 80 percent of
spending while getting about 40 percent of  tax revenue , the
legacy of a 1994 tax-sharing system, according to the  World
Bank . The local share of spending has surged in recent years,
causing regional authorities to rely more on land sales and
borrowing via investment vehicles, Credit Suisse says.  “The government is trying to balance setting up a market
and also being cautious by not allowing these local governments
to start borrowing until there is a framework in place that
provides adequate controls,” said Debra Roane, a Sydney-based
vice president at Moody’s Investors Service who covers Asian
sub-national debt.  While the municipal-bond market will develop in some form,
any new borrowing channel will face difficulty because it won’t
contain local governments’ power to issue debt or boost spending
in “meaningful ways,” Chen Zhiwu, a former adviser to the
State Council, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “The only way out is to increase transparency through a
free press and make local governments directly accountable to
the local citizens,” said Chen, now a finance professor at  Yale
University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut . “The problem is not that
the financial engineers cannot design the right financial
instrument, but a political reforms problem. Without fundamental
political reforms, no financial designer has any magic.”  France Rating  Elsewhere in the world today,  France ’s credit rating was
cut one level to AA by  Standard & Poor’s , which said President
 Francois Hollande ’s policies will fail to spur growth and fix
public finances.  Germany ’s September exports rose more than
estimated.  Job gains in the U.S. are projected to have slowed in
October, and the  unemployment rate  may have risen to 7.3
percent, according to Bloomberg News surveys of economists ahead
of data today. Canada will probably say its jobless rate
increased to 7 percent last month, a separate survey showed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  