-- China Thaw Lets Taiwan Expand Trade Deals to Add Singapore
-- B y   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2013-11-07T08:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/china-thaw-allows-taiwan-to-expand-trade-deals-to-add-singapore.html
Taiwan  signed its biggest trade deal
yet with a country that has diplomatic ties with Beijing, as the
island tries to integrate its economy with the rest of Asia’s
and to diversify economic allies beyond China.  A free-trade agreement with Singapore, Taiwan’s fifth-biggest trade partner, was inked today in the southeast Asian
city-state after two years of talks, according to Taiwan’s
Ministry of Economic Affairs. The deal covers goods, services,
investment and government procurement, the ministry said.  Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou is trying to catch up with
the regional economic integration embraced by Asian neighbors
such as South Korea. China didn’t interfere with Taiwan’s first
free-trade agreement with a developed economy, New Zealand,
signaling the mainland’s tolerance for such deals.  “Relations across the Taiwan Strait are improving and
Chinese authorities are quite ready for Taiwan to get some
international space,” said Joseph Cheng, a political science
professor at the City University of Hong Kong.  China  reached a wide-ranging agreement for economic
cooperation with Taiwan in 2010. A further substantive pact
opening up service sectors like banking and hospitals was signed
in June and awaits legislative review. According to Ma, the deal
with Singapore would facilitate Taiwan’s entry to the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which Taiwan wants to join by 2020. The TPP
is currently under negotiation among 12 countries including the
U.S. and  Japan .  Customs Territory  “We are seriously lagging relative to our trade
competitors, including South Korea, Singapore, and Japan,” Ma
said in an interview on July 25. “We must act fast to catch up
with the regional trend.”  Today’s deal was signed between the  Singapore  Trade Office
in Taipei and the Taipei Representative Office in Singapore. The
agreement refers to Taiwan as the “Separate Customs Territory
of Taiwan, Penghu, Jinmen, and Matsu,” its moniker in the World
Trade Organization.  Taiwan’s July deal with New Zealand was technically between
non-governmental organizations: the New Zealand Commerce and
Industry Office in Taipei and the Taipei Economic and Cultural
Office in Wellington. It was signed at Victoria University on
July 10 and featured a webcast arrangement that allowed Taiwan’s
Foreign Minister David Lin and Minister of Economic Affairs
Chang Chia-juch to “witness” the signing without traveling to
New Zealand, according to Taiwan’s Central News Agency.  Fair Arrangements  “We have no questions on foreign countries undertaking
economic, trade and cultural relations with Taiwan,” China’s
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told a briefing in Beijing
today. “But we are against any foreign countries developing
official government relations with Taiwan.”  Following New Zealand’s pact with Taiwan, China Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said that “reasonable and
fair arrangements” could be made between foreign countries and
Taiwan. New Zealand adhered to its one-China policy, “which is
conducive to the healthy development of Sino-New Zealand
relations,” Hua said.  The Singapore deal may boost exports out of Taiwan to the
city-state. Taiwan exported $1.55 billion of goods to Singapore
in September, or about 6.2 percent of the value of all goods
shipped overseas.  Trade Portfolio  “Taiwan is wise for moving ahead like this,” Derek
Scissors, a Washington-based research fellow at the American
Enterprise Institute, said in August. “China has more weight
than necessary in the Taiwan trade portfolio and Taipei should
diversify.”  Exports account for about two-thirds of Taiwan’s gross
domestic product, and goods bound for China and Hong Kong
represent about 40 percent of shipments.  The island has free-trade deals with diplomatic allies such
as  Panama ,  Nicaragua ,  Guatemala ,  Honduras  and El Salvador,
according to Chen-shen Yen, a research fellow at the Institute
of International Relations at Taiwan’s National Chengchi
University. These nations recognize Taiwan’s Republic of China
government rather than the People’s Republic of China government
seated in Beijing. The New Zealand agreement and a deal with
Singapore would help Taiwan negotiate similar deals with Asean
nations, Yen said.  The island’s economy last year, which grew at 1.32 percent
last year, lagged behind the  Philippines  and Indonesia. The
Philippine economy expanded 6.8 percent and Indonesia’s gross
domestic product rose more than 6 percent in 2012.  Taiwan is studying potential deals with the Philippines and
 India , and plans to start a study on a similar pact with  Israel ,
the economic affairs ministry  said in  September.  “Taiwan can negotiate with other countries without
mainland interference as long as China has already struck a
trade agreement,” Scissors said. “Serious talks with India,
for example, would therefore see Chinese opposition. But
 Indonesia  might not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  