-- China Swap Rate at Four-Month High as PBOC Halts Cash Injection
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-07T02:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/china-swap-rate-at-four-month-high-as-pboc-halts-cash-injection.html
China ’s  interest-rate swaps  climbed
to the highest level since June as the central bank refrained
from adding funds to the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China didn’t sell reverse-repurchase
contracts today, according to three traders with primary dealers
required to bid at the auctions. The monetary authority injected
funds via reverse-repo agreements on Oct. 29, Oct. 31 and Nov.
5, after suspending the operations for two weeks, which drove
the overnight and seven-day repurchase rates to four-month highs
at the end of October as commercial banks struggled to meet
month-end cash needs and deposit taxes with the central bank.  The cost of one-year  interest-rate swaps , the fixed payment
needed to receive the floating seven-day repo, rose five basis
points to 4.32 percent as of 10:19 a.m. in Shanghai, the highest
since June 24, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
gained for a fourth day.  “The PBOC’s stance is clear - it won’t let you indulge in
cheap money anymore,” said Chen Qingsheng, an analyst at
Evergrowing Bank Co. in Shanghai. “Cash supply is not tight
now, and obviously the central bank believes the rates have
fallen enough already, perhaps too much.”  The  overnight repo rate  rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.71 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. The
rate fell for five days in a row, the longest declining streak
since August, to 3.67 percent yesterday.  The PBOC said it will maintain prudent monetary policy and
continue stabilizing inflation expectations as the foundation
for stable consumer prices isn’t very solid, according to a
report posted on the central bank’s website on Nov. 5.  The yield on the 4.08 percent government bonds due August
2023 rose one basis point to 4.26 percent, according to data
from the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  