-- China National Gold Said to Weigh Investments in Ivanhoe Assets
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-11-07T03:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/china-national-gold-said-to-weigh-investments-in-ivanhoe-assets.html
China  National Gold Group Corp. is
considering investing in mines owned by Robert Friedland’s
 Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. (IVN) , including the Platreef project in South
Africa, a person with knowledge of the situation said.  China’s largest gold producer values the Platreef platinum
and copper mine at about $1 billion, said the person, who asked
not to be identified as the information is private.  State-owned China National Gold has also looked at other
Ivanhoe projects located in the Democratic Republic of Congo and
Gabon, though prefers more developed countries like South
Africa, the person said. No terms for a purchase of the Platreef
mine have been finalized, and China National Gold could instead
consider buying a stake in Ivanhoe itself, the person said.  China National Gold, which ended talks in January to
acquire  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ’s African unit for about $2.3
billion, is also exploring opportunities to buy gold and copper
assets in Canada and  Australia , the person said.  Chinese metal producers are seeking to take advantage of
commodity price declines to buy assets overseas. The biggest
global mining companies are selling their higher-cost projects
and writing down asset values after almost $1 trillion of
acquisitions in the sector over the past decade.  Wu Zhanming, a spokesman for Beijing-based China National
Gold, declined to comment, as did Bob Williamson, a spokesman
for Ivanhoe.  Japanese Investment  The Wall Street Journal in September reported that China
National Gold had talked to Ivanhoe about buying assets or a
stake in the company. Ivanhoe said Sept. 23 that was in
discussions with private and state-owned mining companies that
had expressed interest in investing “both at the project and
corporate levels.”  Ivanhoe owns 90 percent of the Platreef mine, located 280
kilometers (174 miles) northeast of Johannesburg, according to
its website. A group of Japanese companies including  Itochu
Corp. (8001)  spent $290 million in 2010 and 2011 to acquire a 10
percent stake in the project.  The Platreef project contains platinum, palladium, nickel,
copper and gold resources, according to Ivanhoe’s website. The
company, which changed its name in August from Ivanplats Ltd.,
has a market value of C$1.62 billion ($1.54 billion) after a 50
percent drop in its shares since the start of 2013.  RBC Capital Markets in Toronto values Platreef at $1.7
billion, according to analyst Fraser Phillips.  The price of platinum, used in jewelry and catalytic
converters that reduce car emissions, fell about 15 percent
since the end of June 2011 and traded at $1,467.38 an ounce as
of 10:50 a.m. in  Singapore  today. Copper for three-month
delivery has dropped about 24 percent to $7,140 a metric ton in
London Metal Exchange trading.  African Barrick  China National Gold began talks last year to acquire a
majority stake in  African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG) , which mines in
 Tanzania , in what would have been the largest gold-company
takeover involving a Chinese company. The talks ended in January
without an agreement.  The company’s Hong Kong- and Toronto-traded unit, China
Gold International Resources Corp., sees South Africa as the
focus of its African strategy, the unit’s Chief Executive
Officer Song Xin said March 26.  Ivanhoe said June 10 it applied to the South African
government for mining rights for the Platreef project. The
company expects to complete a scoping study by early next year
for a mining operation with as much as 12 million metric tons of
annual production, according to its website.  After receiving the rights, Ivanhoe will own 77 percent of
Platreef, a company presentation shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  