-- CIA Said to Pay AT&T for Customer Data in Terrorist Hunt
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-11-07T19:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/cia-said-to-pay-at-t-for-customer-data-in-terrorist-hunt.html
The Central Intelligence Agency has
negotiated contracts with  AT&T (T)  Inc. and other U.S. companies to
mine their databases for records of communications, including
financial transactions, of suspected terrorists overseas.  The agreement with AT&T, the largest U.S phone company,
costs the CIA more than $10 million a year, said a former U.S.
official who worked in the effort to track down terrorist
suspects, drug cartels, fugitives and other targets of interest
by searching through overseas communications.  It mirrors similar arrangements with other intelligence and
law enforcement agencies, including the FBI, the National
Security Agency, the Drug Enforcement Agency and the Department
of  Homeland Security , the former official said, asking not to be
named discussing classified information.  “Like all telecom providers, we routinely charge
governments for producing the information provided,”  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, said in an e-mail.
“We do not comment on questions concerning national security.  ‘‘In all cases, whenever any governmental entity anywhere
seeks information from us, we ensure that the request and our
response are completely lawful and proper,’’ Siegel said.  The disclosure of AT&T’s payments from the CIA, reported by
the New York Times, broadens public knowledge of the degree to
which telecommunications carriers provide data about their
customers to government intelligence and law enforcement
officials.  Snowden Scandal  A spying scandal sparked by secret documents from former
NSA contractor Edward Snowden began in June with disclosure in
the Guardian newspaper of a secret court order directing the
collection of call data from New York-based  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)   ‘‘We don’t comment on matters of national security,”  Bob Varettoni , a Verizon spokesman, said in a phone interview.  In a letter last year responding to a congressional request
for information, AT&T said it had more than 100 full-time
employees “specifically devoted to receiving, reviewing and
responding to  law enforcement requests ” for call information.
The company provided a price list showing that it charged $325
to activate a wiretap and $5 a day to keep it active.  Not all companies are paid for providing data to the CIA
and, unless a subpoena has been issued, domestic telephone
numbers, e-mail addresses and personal websites are blocked
under the CIA’s agreements, the former official said. The CIA
generally is prohibited from domestic spying in the U.S., where
the FBI has primary  responsibility  for intelligence gathering.  Acquiring Intelligence  “As a matter of longstanding policy, the CIA does not
comment on alleged intelligence sources or methods,” Dean Boyd,
an agency spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “The CIA
protects the nation and upholds the privacy rights of Americans
by ensuring that its intelligence collection activities are
focused on acquiring foreign intelligence and
counterintelligence in accordance with U.S. laws.”  In its May 2012 letter to then-Representative  Edward Markey , AT&T said it had collected more than $24 million from
government agencies for information from 2007 through 2011.
Markey, a  Massachusetts  Democrat, is now in the  U.S. Senate .  A Justice Department  audit  in 2008 found that telephone
companies had sometimes disconnected FBI eavesdropping
operations because the government failed to pay bills on time.
The department’s inspector general found that more than half of
the FBI surveillance payments examined were late, and that a
single field office owed one unnamed telephone company $66,000
in unpaid bills.  No Profit  “I’m sure the money AT&T received was more of a
reimbursement for the work they did -- this isn’t a profit
center,” said  Roger Entner , an industry strategist with Recon
Analytics LLC, based in Dedham, Massachusetts.  “What’s their alternative?” Entner asked in a phone
interview. “Lives could be lost if AT&T doesn’t cooperate with
the government. That’s not a headline anyone would want to
see.”  The U.K.’s Government Communications Headquarters, known as
GCHQ, the counterpart to America’s NSA, has arrangements with
telecom companies similar to the CIA’s, as do intelligence
agencies in many other democratic countries, the former official
said.  Nations such as  China ,  Iran , Syria and  Russia  have no
restrictions on what domestic and international communications
their spies can intercept, monitor and collect, the former
official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  