-- Citigroup Said to Face Fine in EU’s Yen Libor Probe by Year-End
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-11-07T17:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/citigroup-said-to-face-fine-in-eu-s-yen-libor-probe-by-year-end.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  may be fined by the
European Union as soon as next month following a probe into the
rigging of yen Libor submissions, according to two people with
knowledge of the case.  Citigroup will settle the European Commission antitrust
probe and receive a 10 percent discount on its fine, said one of
the people, who asked not be named because the talks are
confidential Joaquin Almunia, the EU’s antitrust chief, has said
he hopes to settle the yen Libor and a parallel Euribor probe by
the end of the year.  Regulators around the world are probing whether more than a
dozen firms, including Deutsche Bank AG, colluded to rig
benchmark interest rates to mask their true cost of borrowing.
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Rabobank
Groep are among firms that have been fined about $3.7 billion
for rigging the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, the
benchmark for more than $300 trillion of securities worldwide.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, and Antoine Colombani, Almunia’s spokesman, declined
to comment on the yen  Libor probe . The people familiar with the
probe didn’t elaborate on the size of the fine.  Japanese regulators in December 2011 ordered Citigroup, the
third-largest U.S. bank by assets, and UBS AG to suspend some
operations after the banks’ staff were found to have attempted
to influence the Tokyo interbank offered rate, or Tibor. Tom
Hayes, a former trader at both Citigroup and UBS, was charged in
the U.K. with attempting to manipulate Libor. He has pleaded not
guilty.  EU Probes  Separately,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  said today that it rejected
a settlement of the EU’s probe into the rigging of Euribor.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  also dropped out of talks to settle the
commission’s antitrust probe, Bloomberg News reported this week.  Barclays, Deutsche Bank,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , RBS and
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  entered into settlement talks with the
commission alongside HSBC and Credit Agricole, a person familiar
with the probe said. Regulators are preparing to issue fines to
settling banks as soon as next month, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  