-- McKinsey Says 20% of Biggest Banks May Shrink or Merge
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-11-07T00:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/mckinsey-says-20-of-biggest-banks-may-shrink-or-merge.html
One-fifth of the world’s biggest
banks may be broken up or sold as part of a “radical course
correction” to boost shareholder returns, according to  McKinsey
& Co. .  The number of global universal banks may drop to fewer than
10 from about 25 as they narrow their focus on products or
regions, the consulting firm said in an annual review of the
industry released today. Ninety global lenders are generating
higher returns by following one of five distinct strategies
described by McKinsey, according to the report.  “It’s not as if it can’t be done,” Fritz Nauck, a
director at the consulting firm and a co-author of the report,
said in an interview yesterday. “It’s about how do the other
banks get there or how does this consolidation start to bring
the overall industry up in terms of performance.”  Global banks’ return on equity climbed to 8.6 percent in
2012 from 7.9 percent a year earlier, still below the 10 percent
to 12 percent average cost of equity, a measure of the minimum
return required by shareholders, McKinsey said in the report.  U.S. banks earned an average return of 8 percent last year
and European lenders earned 2 percent, excluding those in the
most indebted nations such as Spain and  Greece , according to the
report titled “Breakaway: How Leading Banks Outperform Through
Differentiation.”  Online Competitors  Higher  capital requirements , slow economic growth and
increasing demands by national regulators that have reduced
international capital flows and trade have put pressure on
banks’ performance, according to the report. New rules such as
the supplementary  leverage ratio  and the emergence of online
competitors are also threats, McKinsey said.  The 90 banks that outperformed earned a 15 percent return
on equity, or ROE, and their share prices traded at an average
of two times book value, twice the price-to-book value of the
rest of the 500 banks the consulting firm reviewed.  The five strategies that McKinsey outlined were universal
banking, “investment specialists” that have scale in wealth
management or payments processing, lenders that offer superior
service and can charge a premium, being a leader in a rapidly
growing market, and a “back-to-basics” model that features
fewer products and lower costs.  More companies will need to pursue the “back-to-basics”
strategy by limiting the industries they serve and dropping
marginal consumer products such as student and boat lending,
Nauck said. U.S. banks such as Comerica Inc. and M&T Bank Corp.
have succeeded with lower margins by cutting costs and
maintaining a “no surprises” balance sheet, the report said.  ‘Rocket Scientists’  “Compensation must be structured to attract people who are
suited to delivering the bank’s basic products — fewer rocket
scientists and more people who want to sell mortgages and
current accounts in a fair and friendly manner,” McKinsey said
in the report.  McKinsey alumni have gone on to senior banking jobs. They
include Peter Wuffli, who was replaced as UBS AG’s chief
executive officer in July 2007 as credit losses began eroding
profit; Johnny Cameron, who ran Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s
investment bank until October 2008;  Stephen Green , former CEO
and chairman of HSBC Holdings Plc;  Peter Sands , CEO of Standard
Chartered Plc; and Morgan Stanley Chairman and CEO  James Gorman .  The industry may also improve returns through takeovers and
mergers, as many of the 190 banks that have an ROE below their
cost of equity and are trading below book value may look to sell
themselves, Nauck said. He cited the consolidation that occurred
after the savings-and-loan crisis of the 1980s when the number
of lenders fell by half over the next 20 years.  “I don’t think we need to get quite that number, but there
will be a stronger industry for clients, customers, banks,
regulators, for all constituents if the weaker banks can be
absorbed and managed better by stronger banks,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  