-- CMBS Seen Soaring Next Year in Real Estate Lending Growth
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-11-07T19:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/cmbs-seen-soaring-next-year-in-real-estate-lending-growth.html
Commercial-property lenders are
expected to loosen restrictions imposed after the 2008 credit
crisis, with a jump in financing projected for next year, a
survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and the Urban Land
Institute shows.  The commercial mortgage-backed securities market ranks at
the top of the survey for expected change in availability,
according to a report to be released today. Several respondents
estimated originations may exceed $100 billion in 2014, which
would be more than any period except 2005 through 2007, when the
market for real estate bonds surged before rising delinquencies
caused demand to crash.  Investor demand for commercial real estate should grow
along with a steadily improving economy, even if interest rates
climb, according to the report. The reason, in part, is a rising
level of comfort among lenders, including commercial banks,
insurers and private investment firms, said Mitchell Roschelle,
PwC’s national real estate practice leader and co-chairman of
the study, based on responses from more than 1,000 property
investors and lenders.  “Some of the credit-quality concerns that people had with
real estate have evaporated with time,” he said in a telephone
interview from New York, where the professional-services firm is
based. “We’ve worked through those problems, and the other
thing is what used to be headwinds have changed to tailwinds, in
many cases, in the eyes of real estate market participants.”  No Chill  The fiscal cliff, speculation over potential tapering of
Federal Reserve debt purchases, the partial government shutdown
and the brinkmanship over the debt limit “didn’t seem to chill
the commercial real estate market,” Roschelle said. “We
continued to add jobs, we’re continuing not to wildly add to
supply, housing’s recovering, real estate cash flows are
improving.”  Banks have arranged $63.5 billion of CMBS this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Issuance is poised to reach $80
billion in 2013, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  About 43 percent of survey respondents said they expect
debt-underwriting standards to be less rigorous next year, the
most since PwC and the Urban Land Institute started asking the
question in 2009. Last year, only 20 percent held that opinion.  About 17 percent believe lending will become more rigorous
next year, down from 39 percent a year ago. The remainder told
the researchers it should be about the same.  Witkoff Experience  Steven Witkoff, a New York-based developer, is among those
who say it’s still tough. His deals this year an agreement to
purchase of the Park Lane Hotel in midtown  Manhattan , which may
be converted to condominiums, and the acquisition with a partner
of a lower Manhattan site for a condo tower.  “Maybe in New York it’s a little easier, maybe, because
that market is a more liquid market,” said Witkoff, who is part
of an investor group that’s building a hotel and retail complex
on a Times Square site that was acquired last year. “But I
think that the credit-transmission system is still clogged.”  Witkoff said he sought financing from a global bank and a
non-bank commercial-property finance company to finance two
hotels and an office building in Miami, properties he said he
paid a combined $170 million for.  “We’ve gotten loans done, but it’s a grind,” he said. “I
have the relationships, the track record and the balance sheet,
and an office that can execute, and I had to demonstrate all
that. Lenders are being very careful and doing their homework
before anything.”  Throwing Money  The survey’s findings don’t suggest lenders are “going to
be throwing money around like crazy in 2014,” Roschelle said.
“There’ll be more participants in the market, which is going to
help fuel the continuing recovery in real estate.”  Anthony Orso, chief executive officer of Cantor Commercial
Real Estate Co., a firm sponsored by Cantor Fitzgerald LP, said
his firm is “very bullish on the CMBS market.”  “The real question is not whether the lending demand will
be there,” he said. “This year, as in the last year, there
seems to be hiccups. The government shutdown, that’s a hiccup.
Tapering, that was a hiccup. We seem to have these irregular
moments during the year that cause a delay in executing
transactions.”  In September, CCRE led the financing on its biggest loan to
date, $580 million, to refinance the Miracle Mile Shops on the
Las Vegas Strip. Two years ago, such a deal “absolutely would
not happen,” Orso said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  