-- Coca-Cola to Invest More Than $4 Billion in China From 2015-2017
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-07T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/coca-cola-to-invest-more-than-4-billion-in-china-from-2015-2017.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest
beverage company, plans to invest more than $4 billion in  China 
from 2015 to 2017 as it builds factories and adds new products
to meet demand and counter rising competition.  The Atlanta-based company is also open to acquisitions in
China and may consider deals with complementary businesses, such
as makers of juices or plant-protein drinks like almond milk,
David Brooks, president of Coca-Cola’s Greater China and Korea
business unit, said in an Nov. 6 interview in Shanghai.  “You will see an absolute increase in investment on an
annual basis and on a three-year basis,” Brooks said,
commenting on the company’s future plan for China. Coca-Cola is
investing $4 billion in the country for 2012-2014.  The U.S. soda maker is ramping up its China investment as
the company and its bottlers seek to double global revenues to
$200 billion in the 10 years to 2020. While it is the country’s
largest soft-drink maker, it faces competition from companies
including  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and the local Hangzhou Wahaha Group as it
seeks to expand in the most populous nation.  PepsiCo, the world’s second-largest soft-drink maker, is
stepping up its push into China. The company has also opened new
factories and sought to expand distribution through a tie-up
with  Tingyi Cayman Islands Holding Corp. (322)   Competition in China’s beverage industry is intense and the
sector is one with “low growth and weak profitability,”
analyst Jean Chan from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. wrote in a
Sept. 25 report. Sales are typically driven by promotions, she
said.  China Sales  Coca-Cola said in July that its second-quarter sales volume
in China was little changed after rising 7 percent a year ago.
Sales in the third quarter have shown improvements, and this will
continue over the next several quarters, Brooks
said.  The Asian nation has pared economic growth projections to
an average of 7 percent this decade, compared with 10.5 percent
in the previous 10 years.  Coca-Cola plans to open as many as two facilities each year
in China over the next decade, Brooks said. In the nearer term,
it will invest about $40 million in a new pulp blending factory
in  Shanghai , and likely open a plant in the southwestern Guizhou
province in the next two years, Brooks said.  “The beverage market in China is still very fragmented,”
the executive said. “No company has predominant market share,
and there is a huge amount of untapped opportunity left to
grow.”  Chinese Flavors  The company also plans to expand its offerings of Chinese-style beverages, with traditional Chinese items such as wolf
berries and herbal ingredients all being considered in future
drinks, Brooks said, declining to elaborate further. It will
also roll out more low-calorie and no-calorie drinks as it
caters to an aging population, he said.  “People like new flavors,” Chan, the analyst, said.
“Going forward, product innovations will help you expand your
categories and also drive growth.”  Chinese consumers are buying more juices and ready-to-drink
teas and fewer carbonated drinks as they seek a healthier
lifestyle, Chan said.  China regulators blocked the Coca-Cola’s planned $2.3
billion buyout of China Huiyuan Juice Group Ltd. in 2009.  Emerging markets  are increasingly important to the U.S.
company, which got about 79 percent of its operating income
outside North America last year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. In the U.S., beverage makers have come under scrutiny in
recent years as public officials in several states have looked
to curb high obesity rates by slowing consumption of sugary soft
drinks with proposed restrictions and excise taxes.  Local Cooking  Coca-Cola, which broke ground on the first of its 43
factories on the mainland in 1980, already sells snow-pear fruit
drinks and sour-plum sparkling beverages there. On its website,
there are suggested recipes including sweet and spicy hoisin
spare ribs with Coca-Cola, encouraging consumers to incorporate
the carbonated beverage into local cooking.  The maker of drinks ranging from green teas and milk-based
Minute Maid Milky Pulpy had a 15.7 percent share in China’s 67.5
billion litre soft-drink market in 2012, according to industry
researcher Euromonitor International.  Taiwan’s Ting Hsin International Group, which partly owns
Tingyi, ranked second with 12.8 percent, while PepsiCo had 4.5
percent. Wahaha Group, controlled by the nation’s second richest
man,  Zong Qinghou , had a 7.3 percent share.  Low per-capita consumption and rising incomes will boost
beverage demand in China, helping the Asian nation become Coca-Cola’s largest market by sales volume by 2020, from third-largest today, Brooks said.  China Plenum  China’s third plenum, a meeting of Communist Party leaders
to discuss economic-policy reforms, begins this week in Beijing.
The outcome of the conclave will be closely watched by foreign
investors as it would give an indication of the country’s
roadmap for the next 10 years, said Brooks, who has lived and
worked in Greater China since 1975.  “The overall trend of opening and continuing to become
more transparent is very clear,” he said. “Market forces
playing a stronger role in the economy going forward is good for
all players whether you are a foreign company or state-owned
enterprise.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  