-- Commerzbank’s Profit Rises 15% on Lower Tax Payment
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-11-07T06:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/commerzbank-s-profit-rises-15-on-lower-tax-payment.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-biggest lender, said third-quarter profit rose 15 percent as it
paid less tax.  Net income in the three months through September climbed to
77 million euros ($104 million) from 67 million euros a year
earlier, the Frankfurt-based company said in a statement on its
website today. That beat the 32 million-euro average  estimate  of
six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Commerzbank Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  is
grappling with losses from soured shipping and commercial real
estate loans as he seeks to lower costs by eliminating
employees. The lender faces added scrutiny as the European
Central Bank begins a review of the assets of the euro area’s
biggest banks this month and takes over supervision next year.  “Their business with mid-sized companies has felt the
weaker environment and shipping and commercial real estate loans
are helping to drive risk provisions,” Stefan Bongardt, an
analyst with Independent Research GmbH in Frankfurt who
recommends investors sell the stock, said before the earnings
were published. “The bank may also seek to head off the ECB’s
review by taking a stricter view of its portfolio.”  The bank paid 3 million euros of tax in the quarter
compared with 118 million euros in the same period a year ago.
Pretax profit dropped to 103 million euros from 211 million
euros, while operating expenses fell to 1.69 billion euros from
1.73 billion euros, it said.  Lagging Behind  Commerzbank rose 0.2 percent to 9.32 euros in  Frankfurt 
trading yesterday, reducing its decline this year to 13 percent.
That compares with an 17 percent increase for the 44-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks & Financial Services Index.  Loan-loss provisions rose to 492 million euros in the third
quarter from 430 million euros a year ago, Commerzbank said in
the statement. The bank’s common equity Tier 1 capital ratio,
used by regulators to gauge financial strength, rose to 8.6
percent from 8.4 percent at the end of June.  “We have increased the capital ratios, lowered costs,
considerably reduced risks and non-strategic portfolios, and
successfully launched our growth initiatives,” Blessing said in
the statement. “Thus we have further enhanced the stability of
the bank.”  Standard & Poor’s cut Commerzbank’s debt rating to A-, four
levels above junk, in May saying poor economic conditions mean
it will struggle to boost earnings sustainably and will be
vulnerable to “its high-risk lending concentrations.”  Commerzbank said yesterday that two members of its
executive board will step down by the end of the year. Blessing,
appointed in 2008, is downsizing top management as part of a
plan to eliminate 5,200 jobs by 2016 to help boost
profitability.  The bank increased capital for the fifth time in four years
in May to help repay 18.2 billion euros of state aid it took in
2009 and bolster reserves to meet stricter regulatory standards.  Commerzbank is selling and winding down shipping and
commercial real estate loans as well as sovereign and municipal
debt holdings to raise capital levels and comply with conditions
for its bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  