-- Commerzbank Cuts Risky Loans for Property, Shipping by Third
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-11-07T12:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/commerzbank-cuts-risky-loans-for-property-shipping-by-a-third.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-biggest lender, cut its riskiest shipping and property assets by
33 percent to 8 billion euros ($11 billion) in the third quarter
after the sale of its U.K. real estate unit.  Loans identified as “higher risk” fell from 12 billion
euros in the previous quarter, the Frankfurt-bank said in a
presentation today. The numbers don’t include non-performing
loans.  Commerzbank is winding down its shipping and real estate
financing arms to focus on corporate and consumer banking. In
July, Commerzbank agreed to sell its U.K. real estate loans,
valued at about 4 billion euros, to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Lone
Star Funds . The German government owns 17 percent of Commerzbank
after an 18.2 billion-euro bailout in 2009.  Most of Commerzbank’s risky property loans are now in
 Spain , where the bank has lent 3.3 billion euros. The bulk of
its property-loan assets is in Germany, including 17.1 billion
euros of loans classified as “lower risk,” according to the
presentation.  On Oct. 6, Thomas Koentgen, the former head of
Commerzbank’s property unit Hypothekenbank Frankfurt, said high
investor demand for property in  France  and  Poland  would make it
easier to sell assets in those markets. Commerzbank has about
2.4 billion euros of loans in France and 900 million euros in
Poland. Koentgen, who was speaking at the Expo Real trade fair,
left the position on Oct. 14.  Exposure at Default  Commerzbank’s shipping unit Deutsche Schiffsbank cut its
exposure at default by one billion euros to 16 billion euros
compared with the second quarter, according to the presentation.
This includes non-performing loans. The bank is “already
close” to its target of reducing the volume of ship financing
to 14 billion euros by 2016, it said.  The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
2008 and the ensuing debt crisis in the euro area propelled the
shipping industry into a slump from which it has yet to recover,
damping demand for seaborne transport and generating a glut of
vessels.  HSH Nordbank AG is the market leader in ship financing. It
had 25 billion euros in ship loans in the first quarter, its
restructuring unit head Wolfgang Topp said in September.  Commerzbank in 2012 decided to wind down its shipping
portfolio to stem the losses. In May, it created Hanseatic Ship
Asset Management GmbH, based in Hamburg, to take over and run
vessels from clients unable to pay their debts, holding off on a
sale until values recover.  “We have transfered only three ships to the ship
management unit; the total exposure for the ship management unit
is still well below 100 million euros,” Commerzbank’s Chief
Financial Officer Stephan Engels said on a conference call with
analysts today.  This can be a lesson for other ship owners “because as
long as they believe that you as an asset manager can take their
ship away and run it on your own means that helps in
renegotiating certain things,” Engels said.  For Related News and Information:
Commerzbank Reduces Shipping Loans as Additional Defaults Loom
Commerzbank Acquires First Ships in Bid to Salvage Bad Loans (1)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  