-- Commerzbank Says Capital Covers Any Shortfall in ECB Test
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-11-07T11:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/commerzbank-says-capital-covers-any-shortfall-in-ecb-test.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-largest bank, said it probably has sufficient capital to cover
any shortfall should the  European Central Bank  decide the
company hasn’t valued some assets correctly.  Commerzbank held 6 billion euros ($8.1 billion) to 7
billion euros more capital at the end of September than the ECB
will require in the first stage of its assessment of bank
balance sheets next year, Stephan Engels, Commerzbank’s chief
financial officer said on a conference call with analysts today.  European officials have entrusted the ECB with overseeing
the region’s financial system to prevent a repeat of the turmoil
that set off the euro area’s worst recession since World War II.
Commerzbank’s soured shipping and commercial real estate loans
have sapped  profit  this year and prompted  Standard & Poor’s  to
cut the company’s debt rating in May.  The ECB will begin to identify businesses that may carry
more risk than stated by banks this year before reviewing the
assets and stress-testing the companies in two phases next year.  “The hype and the discussions are mainly around the so-called risk portfolios,” Engels, 51, said. “Everybody assumes
that ships is one of them and I can only reiterate what I’ve
been saying, for I think now for four, five or six quarters we
will remain cautious on shipping.”  Commerzbank set aside about 700 million euros for risky
shipping loans last year and provisions will probably be at the
same level this year and next, Engels said.  ‘Prudent Valuation’  The bank’s management believes its assets are accounted for
correctly and will continue to employ “consistent prudent
valuations,” he said.  Engels said he can’t yet say how Commerzbank will perform
in the  stress test  to be conducted before the ECB takes over as
the supervisor for about 130 of the euro area’s biggest banks
late next year.  “We don’t know what the stress test will look like,
neither do we know what the thresholds will be,” he said.  The asset quality review, which will take place early next
year, will require banks to hold common equity Tier 1 capital
equivalent to 8 percent of their risk-weighted assets, the ECB
said last month. That compares with Commerzbank’s  capital  ratio
of 11 percent at the end of September when phasing in standards
set under the global framework known as Basel III.  The subsequent stress test will use a stricter definition
of capital, according to the ECB.  “The most important thing for me with regards to the
selection process and asset quality review is that we get a
level playing field for all countries involved,” Engels said on
a separate conference call with reporters. “If that’s the case,
then I’m pretty optimistic for our company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  