-- Congress Seen Debating Oil Exports While Wary of Gas Cost
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-11-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/congress-seen-debating-oil-exports-while-wary-of-gas-cost.html
Congress probably will consider
loosening restrictions on U.S. oil exports, though a push by
industry to sell more crude overseas will be resisted by members
concerned about the impact on gasoline prices, lawmakers said.  Senator  Lisa Murkowski , the top Republican on the Senate
Energy and Natural Resources Committee, believes the debate on
oil exports will happen “sooner rather than later,” according
to Robert Dillon, a spokesman for the Alaska lawmaker.  “It’s something we are looking at,” Dillon said.  The chairman of the committee, Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon
Democrat, agrees the debate is coming though he would need to
see benefits to consumers before supporting such a move, said
spokesman Keith Chu in an e-mail.  The  American Petroleum Institute  is developing the
“necessary legal analysis” and may “highlight potential
violations” of global trade rules in support of natural gas and
oil exports, according to an internal planning document obtained
by  Bloomberg News .  U.S. oil production is at its highest point in more than
two decades as technological advances allow drillers to coax
crude from shale rock formations.  The prospect of selling U.S. oil to other nations would be
a tough domestic political challenge at a time when U.S.
consumers are struggling with high energy prices, said Daniel J. Weiss, director of climate strategy at the Center for American
Progress, a Washington-based group that says it promotes
progressive policies.  Gasoline Price  U.S. consumers were forced to spend more on a gallon of
gasoline last year than at any time since the mid-1970s, after
adjusting for inflation, he said. The  national average price  for
a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline was $3.23 on Nov. 5,
compared with $3.46 per gallon a year ago, according to data
collected by the American Automobile Association.  “It’s hard to imagine many congresspeople voting to export
such a vital commodity to other countries,” Weiss said.  Democratic Representative Gene Green, whose Houston-based
district is home to energy companies including pipeline company
 Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI) , said it doesn’t make sense to remove
restrictions on sales overseas while the U.S. imports about 40
percent of its oil and petroleum products.  “It’s something maybe in the future, but right now we’re
not really self-sufficient,” Green, a member of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee, said in an interview. “I’d be
hesitant to do it. We should take care of our own needs first.”  Natural Gas  Dillon declined to say whether Murkowski supports more oil
exports. She is supportive of removing constraints on exports of
liquefied  natural gas . The Energy Department has approved four
applications for terminals to  export gas  to countries that don’t
have a free-trade agreement with the U.S. Another 20
applications are under review.  Wyden “is aware our country will have a debate over
exporting crude oil in the near future,” Chu said. “He’s
willing to consider all policies and all options, so long as he
sees evidence that those policies will result in clear benefits
to the American consumer.”  The Republican-led House Energy and Commerce Committee may
also look at the issue of removing restrictions on oil exports,
though it doesn’t have any hearings scheduled on the topic.  “The committee is continuing to examine the growing energy
boom and re-evaluate policies that are based on scarcity,”
 Charlotte  Baker, a Republican spokeswoman for the panel, said in
an e-mail.  National Interests  Harold Hamm , the chief executive officer of Oklahoma City-based drilling company  Continental Resources Inc. (CLR) , has said the
U.S. may need to remove restrictions on exports to ensure that
the domestic energy boom continues. Gluts of oil in regional
markets lower prices and may discourage drillers to continue
exploration, he said.  Producers that want to export now must apply for a license
from the U.S. Commerce Department, which weighs whether the
shipments are “consistent with the national interest.”  From 2003 to 2012, the U.S. exported an average of 35,000
barrels a day of crude oil, 98 percent of which went to  Canada .
Exports have increased recently, to 67,000 barrels in 2012,
according to the Energy Information Administration, which tracks
and analyzes U.S. energy data.  That’s still just a fraction of total U.S. production,
which hit 7.5 million barrels a day in August, according to the
latest figures from the EIA. That same month, the U.S. imported
more than 8 million barrels of crude.  Encourage Production  Proponents of easing the process of selling oil overseas
say it will encourage more U.S. production, which has increased
to its highest level in more than two decades. Hydraulic
fracturing and horizontal drilling have given companies like
Continental, the most active driller in the Bakken field, access
to reserves trapped in shale rock formations.  The  International Energy Agency  in Paris predicted last
year that the U.S. would overtake  Saudi Arabia  by 2020 as the
world’s largest oil producer.  Without exports, the drilling boom may wane, said  Kevin Book , managing director of ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a
Washington-based consulting group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  