-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Climbed $13.7 Billion in September
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-11-07T20:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/consumer-credit-in-u-s-climbed-13-7-billion-in-september.html
Consumer credit in the U.S. rose more
than projected in September as borrowing for car purchases and
education climbed.  The $13.7 billion increase in  credit  followed a revised
$14.2 billion advance in August that was larger than previously
estimated, the Federal Reserve said today in  Washington . The
 median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists called for a
$12 billion gain. Non-revolving debt, which includes financing
for college tuition and autos, rose the most in three months.  A pickup in household wealth from increased property values
and stock-market gains is giving Americans the wherewithal to
borrow for such big-ticket purchases as new cars. At the same
time, revolving debt declined for a fourth month, showing
limited job and income growth is prompting consumers to whittle
away at credit-card balances.  “It’s the pattern we’ve seen all year and even most of
last year -- consumers not really willing to build up credit-card balances” even as borrowing for cars and school tuition
increases, said Paul Edelstein, director of financial economics
at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts , who projected
a $13.8 billion gain in total borrowing. “We can’t preclude the
possibility that there’s just been a preference shift in
household attitudes toward debt.”  Estimates of the 33 economists surveyed ranged from
increases of $8.7 billion to $20 billion. The report doesn’t
track debt secured by real estate, such as mortgages and home-equity lines of credit.  Credit Cards  Revolving debt , which includes credit-card spending,
decreased by $2.1 billion in September, the most in three
months, after falling $885 million the previous month, today’s
figures showed. The consecutive declines in revolving credit
marked the longest such stretch since November 2010.  Non-revolving credit increased $15.8 billion in September
after rising $15 billion a month earlier.  Such lending has been a product of resilient auto sales.
Cars and light trucks  sold  in September at an annualized pace of
15.2 million after a 16 million rate the previous month that was
the strongest since November 2007, according to data from Ward’s
Automotive Group. Purchases were little changed in October,
leaving the industry on track for the best sales in six years.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. automaker, achieved
a record third-quarter pretax profit of $2.6 billion, lifting
its full-year outlook, according to an Oct. 24 company
statement.  Auto Loans  Auto lending in the third quarter increased $21.2 billion
after a $20.1 billion gain in the previous three months, today’s
Fed data showed.  Loans by the federal government and private lenders for
school tuitions climbed by $35.4 billion before seasonal
adjustment in the third quarter to $1.18 trillion. Educational
borrowing increased $9.7 billion in the second quarter, today’s
report showed.  The interest rate on undergraduate Stafford loans dropped
to 3.86 percent in August, retroactive to July 1, the day the
rate doubled to 6.8 percent. The law links financing to 10-year
Treasury yields, which had the immediate effect of reducing the
borrowing cost for such loans.  Climbing property and stock values are giving consumers the
means to spend, supporting the household purchases that make up
about 70 percent of the economy.  Disposable income , or money left over after taxes, has held
up in 2013. Adjusted for changes in prices, the gauge rose 1.6
percent in August from the same month last year, the biggest
gain since the end of 2012, according to Commerce Department
data. September data are scheduled for release tomorrow.  At the same time, faster employment and wage gains may be
needed to provide a bigger pickup in personal consumption, which
rose 2 percent in August from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  