-- Continental Raises Earnings Forecast on Chinese Growth
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-11-07T10:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/continental-ag-raises-earnings-forecast-on-asian-growth.html
Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker, raised its earnings forecast for 2013
as growth in China and North America make up for the effects of
the euro’s currency-market gains.  Continental stock jumped to a 21-year high after the
Hanover, Germany-based company  said  earnings before interest and
taxes, adjusted for one-time items, acquisitions and disposals,
will total at least 10.5 percent of sales. That compares with an
earlier forecast of a margin exceeding 10 percent.  The manufacturer, also Europe’s second-largest tire
producer, has sidestepped the effects of the region’s car-market
contraction by adding sales to customers including Volkswagen AG
and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG in growing markets such as China
and the U.S. Continental, which has kept up profit with a focus
on high-technology parts such as safety sensors, said today that
declining rubber costs contributed to the increased forecast.  “We regard Conti’s guidance as relatively conservative, as
it has been all year,” Philip Watkins and Avinash Mundhra,
analysts at Citigroup Inc., said today in a report to clients.
The third-quarter earnings “reaffirm the strength of its
product portfolio.”  Stock Jumps  Continental  rose  as much as 5.8 percent and was up 5.7
percent at 142.95 euros at 11:08 a.m. in Frankfurt. The stock,
which for the past four months has traded at about the highest
price since at least August 1992, has gained 63 percent this
year, the biggest jump on  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) , valuing
the company at 28.6 billion euros ($38.6 billion).  Michelin & Cie. (ML) , Europe’s largest tiremaker, said Oct. 29
that currency shifts in the U.S.,  Japan  and South America more
than offset gains in global deliveries, causing the French
company to review spending plans after third-quarter revenue
dropped 5.9 percent to 5.12 billion euros, even as volume rose.  Faurecia SA (EO) , Europe’s largest maker of car interiors,
reiterated a target last month for 2013 operating profit to
increase after third-quarter sales rose as growth in Asia and
South America offset weaker demand in its home region.  The two French  auto-parts suppliers  are cutting expenses in
Europe by shutting plants and eliminating jobs while adding
production and customers abroad.  Debt Reduced  Continental’s third-quarter Ebit rose 16 percent from a
year earlier to 886.3 million euros, beating the 819.8 million-euro average of five analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. On
an adjusted basis, the Ebit margin widened to 12.2 percent of
sales from a restated 10.5 percent.  Net debt  was reduced to 5.59 billion euros at the end of
September from 6.8 billion euros a year earlier. The
manufacturer, which ranks second in Europe’s car-parts industry
to Robert Bosch GmbH, has been refinancing debt this year,
including a 500 million-euro sale in mid-September of bonds
maturing in March 2017.  The company is “satisfied” with its financing structure
and sees no need to issue further bonds, Chief Financial Officer
Wolfgang Schaefer said today in an interview.  Continental is sticking to a dividend payout-ratio range of
15 percent to 30 percent of net income for this year, Schaefer
said, saying it’s “too early” to specify a figure. The CFO
reiterated that the manufacturer is looking at acquisitions of
about 1 billion euros, adding that he “can’t rule out” a
transaction next year.  German Exports  Car production grew “strongly” in  China  and southeast
Asia in the first nine months of the year, the manufacturer
said. The company raised its forecast for North American auto
production to an increase of 4 percent versus an earlier
estimate of a 3 percent gain. Carmaking in Europe, which will
probably decline 3 percent for the full year, has stabilized,
helped by both “steadying” local demand and German vehicle
exports to China and the U.S., Continental said.  Continental reduced its revenue forecast for the year to
33.5 billion euros from an earlier projection of about 34
billion euros. Sales last year totaled 32.7 billion euros. The
lowered forecast stems from “the unexpectedly high appreciation
of the euro against many other currencies,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in  Frankfurt  at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  