-- Cooper Trial Over $2.5 Billion Apollo Bid Shows Side Deal
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-11-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/cooper-trial-over-2-5-billion-apollo-bid-shows-side-deal.html
Apollo Tyres Ltd. (APTY)  sought to eliminate
an obstacle to its $2.5 billion buyout of Cooper Tire & Rubber
Inc. by offering to purchase Cooper’s Chinese unit for $147
million, a witness testified.  Apollo officials made the offer in hopes of overcoming the
opposition of executives of Cooper’s Chinese joint venture to
the $35-a-share acquisition of Cooper, Sunam Sarkar, Apollo’s
chief financial officer, told Delaware Chancery Court Judge Sam Glasscock III yesterday at a trial over the faltering deal. The
Chinese officials rejected the offer, seeking at least $200
million, he said.  Sarkar’s testimony about the effort to buy the Chinese
unit, code-named “Project Charlie,” was intended to counter
Cooper’s claims that Apollo suffered from buyer’s remorse after
agreeing to buy the U.S.’s fourth-largest tire maker and now is
seeking to torpedo the deal. Apollo made the offer to push the
deal forward, Sarkar said.  Glasscock is being asked to decide whether labor troubles
with the Chinese joint venture unexpectedly damaged the value of
Findlay, Ohio-based Cooper’s business and provided a basis for
Apollo to pull out of the acquisition or cut the price. The
Gurgaon, India-based tiremaker demanded a $2.50-a-share price
cut to complete the deal.  Trial testimony ended yesterday. Glasscock will hear
closing arguments today in Georgetown,  Delaware .  Chinese Objections  Cooper officials testified earlier in the case that they
alerted Apollo executives that their Chinese partners might
object to the buyout. Chinese officials have stopped making
Cooper-brand tires at its facility and ceased uploading
financial information to the parent company’s computers.  That means Cooper may have difficulty in producing third-quarter financial results and Apollo officials might point to
that as a breach of the acquisition agreement.  The opposition from executives of Cooper’s Chinese unit has
made it impossible to sell bonds to help finance the
acquisition, Apollo officials contend.  Robert Cepielik , a forensic accountant, testified that
having a unit withhold financial information from a parent
trying to put out consolidated financial results is a “highly
unusual situation. I’ve never seen anything like it.”  The lack of financial information about the Chinese
operation “raises accounting questions” over the buyout and
leaves Apollo executives with no assurances about the “quality
of the financial information they are getting” from Cooper,
Cepielik, an accountant with  Deloitte Financial Advisory
Services LLP , testified. He was called as an expert by Apollo.  The case is  Cooper Tire & Rubber (CTB)  Co. v. Apollo Holdings Pvt
Ltd., CA8980, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  