-- Credit Agricole CEO Refuses a Settlement on Euribor With EU
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-11-07T10:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/credit-agricole-ceo-refuses-a-settlement-on-euribor-with-eu.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s third-largest bank by market value, rejected a settlement with the
European Union’s antitrust watchdog over the alleged rigging of
Euribor lending rates.  “Our ideas are very clear -- we have a very good case,”
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet told reporters on a
conference call. “I’ve refused the idea of a settlement because
it would have put into question our responsibility.”  Regulators around the world are probing whether more than a
dozen firms, including Deutsche Bank AG, colluded to rig
benchmark interest rates to mask their true cost of borrowing.
Banks that refuse to settle with the European Commission in the
Euribor probe give up the chance of a 10 percent discount in
fines in return for admitting they colluded to manipulate the
benchmark.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank by market value,
dropped out of the Euribor negotiations with the commission
because the discussions stumbled over the possible size of the
fine and liability issues, a person familiar with the
investigation said this week.  Asked whether Credit Agricole had received any notification
from regulators investigating alleged manipulation of the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor, Chifflet said that the bank is
continuing to cooperate with authorities on the matter.  Credit Agricole booked 80 million euros ($108 million) in
unspecified litigation provisions in the third quarter, the bank
said in a statement today.  Earnings Rise  Credit Agricole rose as much as 3.5 percent in Paris
trading after it reported third-quarter net income of 728
million euros, compared with a 2.85 billion-euro loss a year
ago.  Societe Generale (GLE) , France’s second-largest bank by market
value, climbed as much as 3.6 percent after saying net income
rose almost six-fold to 534 million euros in the quarter.  Societe Generale booked 200 million euros in additional
provisions for litigation in the period, raising to 700 million
euros the total amount it has set aside.  Deputy CEO Severin Cabannes, in an interview with Bloomberg
Television, said the bank has nothing new to say on the Euribor
or Libor cases at this time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  