-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold; Citigroup Plans $1.3 Billion Offering
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-11-07T17:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-citigroup-plans-1-3-billion-offering.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
held as the  European Central Bank  cut  interest rates  and U.S.
economic growth accelerated.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is planning a $1.3
billion debt sale.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.5 basis point to 72.2 basis points at 12:19 p.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark has
fallen from a three-week high of 74.5 on Nov. 5.  The index dipped as much as 1.7 basis points after the
ECB’s decision to cut its main refinancing rate to a record-low
0.25 percentage point. The swaps measure later pared its decline
after data showed U.S. third-quarter gross domestic product
expanded more than expected, causing a “build-up in
speculation” that the  Federal Reserve  may cut back on stimulus
in the coming months, according to  Adrian Miller , director of
fixed-income strategy at GMP Securities LLC in New York.  The index’s decline “was mostly from the knee-jerk
reaction to the ECB rate cut, but the swaps are still tied to
the Fed by extension,” Miller said in a telephone interview.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2.8 percent annualized
rate after a 2.5 percent increase the prior three months, a
Commerce Department report showed today in Washington. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
2 percent advance.  Citigroup Offering  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Citigroup, the third-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, may sell
fixed- and floating-rate three-year notes, according to a person
with knowledge of the offering. Moody’s Investors Service is
expected to rate the New York-based lender’s notes Baa2 said the
person, who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, may sell $1
billion of 30-year bonds as soon as today, according to a person
with knowledge of that offering. The debt may be rated A3 by
Moody’s said the person, who asked not to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, was little changed at 351.7 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries rose 0.5 basis point to 127.7 basis
points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade,
or junk-rated, debt rose 1.8 to 548.5.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  