-- Czechs Back First Koruna Sales in 11 Years on Inflation
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-11-07T15:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/czechs-back-first-koruna-sales-in-11-years-on-inflation.html
The Czech central bank began
unlimited koruna sales “for as long as needed” to ease
monetary policy after inflation slowed to the least in 3 1/2
years. The Czech currency plunged the most since at least 1999.  The Ceska Narodni Banka today started selling the currency
for the first time in more than a decade to keep it “near” 27
per euro and push inflation back toward its target, Governor
Miroslav Singer said. The koruna lost as much as 4.4 percent,
the worst performance among 31 emerging-market currencies and
the biggest intraday loss since Bloomberg started tracking the
 currency pair .  “It’s clear to us that we are in this for a long time,”
Singer told reporters today in Prague. “We will only end the
intervention regime when we decide that we’re facing dramatic
inflation pressure that would justify a significant change in
the monetary policy toward tightening.”  After three  rate cuts  in 2012 exhausted room for
traditional monetary easing, Czech policy makers are trying to
head off the risk of deflation. The central bank’s board, which
rejected the interventions in August and September, had been
assessing the strength of an economic rebound after the country
exited a recession that lasted six quarters.  ‘Technical Zero’  The central bank also kept the  benchmark   interest rate  at
what it calls a “technical zero” of 0.05 percent for an eighth
meeting today.  The koruna has shifted to the center of policy
deliberations because its depreciation would make imports more
expensive and boost the competitiveness of exports, curbing
deflation risks. Foreign-exchange interventions are meant to
ensure that inflation returns toward the bank’s 2 percent target
within the 18 month policy horizon, Singer said.  With koruna sales, consumer prices will grow 2.2 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2014, compared with 1.2 percent inflation
the central bank envisaged without the effect of currency
interventions, according the bank’s forecasts published today.  While the central bank may “theoretically” change the
desired koruna rate at future meetings, such a move is unlikely,
according Singer.  “It is impossible to reflect all changes in our view of
the economic conditions by changing the desired exchange-rate
the way we did with interest rates,” Singer said. “That means
a change of the desired exchange rate will require a
significantly bigger change in the situation and it will
undoubtedly happen very rarely or never.”  Regional Differences  European policy makers are diverging as economies show
varying degrees of recovery. The  European Central Bank 
unexpectedly cut its main rate by a quarter-point to 0.25
percent today, while Poland left borrowing costs at an all-time
low of 2.5 percent yesterday and pledged to keep rates on hold
until at least mid-2014.  Since the previous meeting, Czech statistics office data
showed September consumer  price growth  slowed to 1 percent, the
lowest inflation rate since March 2010 and below the central
bank’s 1.4 percent forecast for that month.  Inflation relevant to monetary policy and adjusted for the
primary effect of changes in indirect taxes slowed to 0.2
percent in September from 0.5 percent the previous month. It’s
now “deep below” the bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target and
has undershot the range since February, the bank said.  Industrial output  rose 7.1 percent in September, beating
analyst forecasts. Accelerating exports helped widen the trade
 surplus  to 35.1 billion koruna ($1.8 billion), the largest this
year, from 19.2 billion koruna in August.  “We had thought that the improvements in the latest
activity and survey data would prevent another vote on
unconventional easing from passing today,” said  William Jackson , an emerging-markets analyst at Capital Economics Ltd.
in  London . “However, the balance on the MPC seems to have been
tipped by the drop in inflation last month.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  