-- Czechs Play Koruna Hardball With Unlimited Interventions
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a ,   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-11-08T15:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/czechs-play-koruna-hardball-as-intervention-triggers-record-drop.html
The Czech central bank’s return to
currency interventions after 11 years heralds a push for a
weaker koruna to ward off deflation and kick-start the economy.  The koruna sank 4.4 percent to 26.975 per euro yesterday,
its biggest-ever drop, after the central bank sold the currency
in the market. Governor Miroslav Singer pledged to keep
intervening “for as long as needed” to spur inflation, setting
a target of “near” 27 per euro, a level last seen in 2009. The
koruna was little changed today, while its implied volatility
fell to the world’s lowest, along with the Swiss franc.  Central banks from the U.S. Federal Reserve to the  Bank of
Japan  have expanded monetary stimulus beyond interest-rate cuts
as the global economy struggles to pick up five years after the
onset of the global credit crisis. The Czech National Bank,
which has kept  interest rates  at 0.05 percent for a year, is
fighting off an inflation slowdown that’s followed 18 months of
 recession , the longest on record.  “The central bank signaled willingness to play hardball in
its foreign-exchange policy,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-market
strategist at Citigroup Inc., said by e-mail from  London . “For
the moment, I believe the ‘ideal level of 27’ will be met.”  Deflation Risk  Koruna traded at 26.966 per euro by 3:59 p.m. in Prague.
Investor bets on the size of the koruna’s swings against the
euro in the next three months tumbled to 3.60% today from 4.97%
yesterday. That is on par with the Swiss franc and the lowest
among 34 currencies whose volatility is tracked by Bloomberg.  The  European Central Bank  lowered its benchmark rate to a
record 0.25 percent yesterday, driving the euro down by the most
in two years versus the dollar, and President  Mario Draghi  said
the region risked a “prolonged period” of low inflation.  Czech consumer  prices , which rose 1 percent in the 12
months through September, may decline at the beginning of 2014,
according to Komercni Banka AS forecasts.  That’s worried policy makers, with some raising concerns
“about the economy slipping into deflation, which the central
bank should be proactive in preventing,” according to the
minutes of their last rate-setting meeting.  “It’s clear to us that we are in this for a long time,”
Singer told reporters about central bank koruna sales yesterday.
“The question is not whether we will end it in 2014, but rather
whether it’s going to be enough.”  Swiss Example  Unlike interventions aimed at strengthening the  exchange
rate , which require sales of foreign currencies that can deplete
foreign  reserves , the Czech central bank is printing more koruna
to drive down its value. The money supply increase may lead to
the higher inflation rates that Singer is pursuing.  The CNB probably bought 3 billion euros ($4 billion) to 3.5
billion euros yesterday, David Sykora, chief foreign-exchange
trader at CSOB AS in Prague, said in an interview with Mlada
Fronta Dnes newspaper published today.  “The power is unlimited,” Guillaume Tresca, a Paris-based
strategist at Credit Agricole SA, wrote by e-mail yesterday.
“They can theoretically print as much koruna as they want.”  The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  set a cap of 1.20 per euro on the
franc in September 2011 to curb inflows and avoid unwanted
currency appreciation. The koruna has become the main topic of
Czech policy deliberations because its weakening makes imports
more expensive and boosts the competitiveness of  exports .  ’Fairly Strict’  The koruna has lost 9 percent against the euro since Sept.
17, 2012, the day before Singer first signaled the possibility
of currency sales. This compares with a 2.3 percent loss for the
Polish zloty and 4.6 percent decline for  Hungary ’s forint.  “It will be a fairly strict target,” Mohammed Kazmi, a
London-based analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote
by e-mail yesterday. “Given the credibility of the central
bank, I think the level will be respected and I don’t expect it
to change in the near term.”  The central bank’s board, whose mandate is  price stability ,
voted against the use of interventions in August and September
as some members were concerned that rising import prices would
further curb domestic demand after three years of government
austerity policies. Singer rejected such concerns, saying a
weaker currency “will obviously strengthen gross domestic
product in a short period.”  With koruna sales,  consumer prices  will rise 2.2 percent by
the fourth quarter of 2014, compared with the 1.2 percent
inflation that policy makers envisaged without the currency
interventions, central bank forecasts published yesterday show.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  The depreciation of the koruna achieved by the central bank
will boost Czech exports in koruna terms by 2 percent to 3
percent in six months, CTK newswire reported yesterday, citing
Jiri Grund, head of the country’s Association of Exporters.  “The CNB decision came at the right time,” Grund told
CTK. “It’s a forceful and bold step that should help Czech
exporters and the whole economy.”  Speculation that a weaker koruna will boost the economy and
help improve corporate earnings sent the  Prague ’s PX  equity
index  up 1.3 percent yesterday, the third-best performance among
94 major indexes tracked by Bloomberg. The gauge fell 2.1
percent today, retreating from its highest since Jan. 18.  Gross domestic product  will shrink 0.9 percent this year,
less than the 1.5 percent contraction previously predicted, the
central bank said yesterday. The economy will grow 1.5 percent
in 2014, compared with an earlier 2.1 percent projection,
according to its forecasts.  “This is a good buying opportunity for Czech stocks as the
lower koruna should help Czech exports and therefore improve GDP
growth,” Carsten Hesse and Mateusz Zawada, London-based
analysts at Wood & Co., wrote in a report to clients yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  