-- Daewoo Builds Sonangol Oil Rigs as Angola Drilling Boom Looms
-- B y   M a n u e l   S o q u e   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-11-07T09:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/daewoo-builds-sonangol-oil-rigs-as-angola-drilling-boom-looms.html
Angola,  Africa ’s largest crude
producer after Nigeria, is building the first two drilling rigs
to fly the flag of state oil company  Sonangol EP  as the country
embarks on its biggest deepwater drilling campaign.  “The rigs will be able to operate in Angola and anywhere
in the world where Sonangol has interests,” the company’s
drilling engineer, Paulo Fernandes, said today at an oil
conference in Luanda, the capital. The ships are being
constructed by Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering Co.
Ltd. in  South Korea  and will be deployed in 2016, he said,
declining to give the cost.  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  are among explorers
investing at least $3 billion in wells off  Angola  next year,
according to consultants Wood Mackenzie Ltd. Drillers want to
tap fields beneath a band of salt under the sea floor, testing
the Atlantic mirror theory that there may be huge deposits off
West Africa similar to those across the ocean in Brazil.  Explorers will drill 32 offshore wells next year, including
15 in the pre-salt layer compared with two this year, Fernandes
said. There will be eight pre-salt wells drilled in 2015 and one
the year after, and they’ll cost about $200 million each, he
said.  Sonangol estimates the country’s proven oil reserves at 13
billion barrels while the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries puts it at 9.1 billion. “We are aware of the
discrepancy,” Fernandes said at the conference, organized by
France’s  Total SA. (FP)  “Sonangol is working on the numbers and we
will say something in the near future.”  Lobito Site  Sonangol is considering building a new logistics yard in
the country’s south, possibly in Lobito where a 200,000 barrel-a-day refinery is under construction, because the Sonils base on
the north side of Luanda is congested, Fernandes said. Sonils
could also be expanded, he said.  Sonangol operates in Brazil, Gabon and Iraq as well as most
Angolan blocks. The company plans to spend $8.8 billion on
exploration over the next decade, Chief Executive Officer
Francisco de Lemos Jose Maria said at the company’s annual
meeting in February.  The country pumped 1.71 million barrels a day in October,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Soque in Luanda at 
 msoque@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  