-- Delhaize Earnings Miss Estimates Amid Belgian Price Competition
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-11-07T09:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/delhaize-earnings-miss-estimates-amid-belgian-price-competition.html
Delhaize Group (DELB) , the owner of the U.S.
Food Lion supermarkets, reported third-quarter earnings that
 missed  some estimates as lower prices in stores weren’t matched
by supplier allowances or cost cuts and sales fell in Serbia.  Earnings before interest, taxes and goodwill impairment
fell 22 percent to 176 million euros ($238 million), the
Brussels-based company said today in a statement. That missed
the 179.9 million-euro average of 10 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Excluding currency swings, sales rose 2.9 percent
to 5.34 billion euros, surpassing analyst projections.  Delhaize’s price cut and promotions, which led its U.S.
business to report the fastest same-store sales gain in almost
five years, outpaced an improvement in supplier contract terms
in the quarter as higher payrolls costs and increased
advertising spending reduced profitability in its Belgian home
market. A declining retail market in  Serbia  led Delhaize to
write down an additional 195 million euros on its 932.5 million-euro purchase of Delta Maxi in July 2011, the grocer’s largest
acquisition in a decade.  “The numbers are somewhat reassuring, particularly in the
U.S., and the guidance appears reachable,” Fabienne Caron, an
analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux in  Frankfurt , wrote in an investor
note. “It still implies a tough fourth quarter with a margin
lower than the first three quarters.”  Goodwill Impairment  The impairments in Serbia and  Bulgaria  still leave 288
million euros of goodwill related to the acquisition in
Delhaize’s books as Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Olivier Beckers hands over his position to successor Frans Muller
tomorrow.  Delhaize rose as much as 2.9 percent on Euronext Brussels,
the biggest intraday gain in six weeks, and traded 1.14 euros
higher, or 2.4 percent, at 48.53 euros by 10:04 a.m. local time.  The grocer reiterated its Aug. 8 forecast for a drop in
full-year operating profit of less than 3.5 percent before
currency swings. That signals another decrease in the current
quarter as operating profit before currency swings fell 1.2
percent in the first nine months.  Cash generation not required for reinvestment will be about
500 million euros this year, Delhaize said. That’s equivalent to
slightly more than 10 percent of its current market value.  Delhaize said it maintained market share in  Belgium 
following a gain of 35 basis points in the preceding three-month
period, which was a reversal from losses of 43 basis points in
the first quarter and of 50 basis points last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  