-- Denmark Cuts Mortgage Bond Risk in Intervention: Nordic Credit
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-11-07T09:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/denmark-cuts-mortgage-bond-risk-in-intervention-nordic-credit.html
Denmark ’s government said it will
seek to intervene in the nation’s mortgage bond auctions to
address refinancing risks after industry steps proved
inadequate.  “Rating agencies and others had questioned the safety of
our model, and we felt we had to act, and that we had to act
now,” Business Minister Henrik Sass Larsen said yesterday in a
phone interview. Industry efforts “didn’t remove the risk
altogether, and that’s what the government now seeks to do.”  The proposal, which has yet to be approved by parliament,
seeks to address a funding mismatch criticized by rating
companies and the central bank. Borrowers and banks in Denmark’s
$530 billion mortgage bond market had grown too reliant on one-year bonds to finance loans as long as 30 years, according to
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service.  The government wants to extend maturities on adjustable-rate bonds in the event the securities can’t be sold or if rates
rise sharply. Though the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks
welcomed the step, investors warn they’ll demand a higher
premium to hold a bond with an uncertain maturity profile.  Investor Concerns  “Some investors may not be able to buy into these bonds
any more as they risk having a short bond converted to a 30-year
bond,” Poul Kobberup, head of fixed-income investments at PFA,
Denmark’s biggest private pension fund, said in an interview.
“Then other investors, like ourselves, won’t accept this for
free, and the conversion option will come with a price tag, but
I don’t know how much yet.” Kobberup manages about $47 billion
in fixed-income assets.  Danish mortgage banks have struggled to wean borrowers off
loans funded by one-year bonds as deadlines near to demonstrate
they can withstand a 12-month funding market freeze. Standard &
Poor’s in July told lenders they risked downgrades if they don’t
cut use of the securities over the next two years. The central
bank has also criticized the bonds and the risks borrowers face
if  interest rates  rise.  One-year bonds fund about 40 percent of home loans in
Denmark. Borrowers have been attracted to record-low rates
thanks to AAA-rated Denmark’s status as a haven from Europe’s
debt crisis. Still, households have grown more exposed to
interest-rate shocks as debt burdens soar to a world-record of
310 percent of disposable incomes, according to data compiled by
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  S&P Watching  Under the government’s proposed measure, short-term bonds
would convert to longer-term securities if refinancing auctions
fail or interest rates climb in auctions by more than 5
percentage points. Existing bonds would be excluded from the
measure, which would go into effect Jan. 1 if approved by
lawmakers.  Per Tornqvist, a Stockholm-based analyst with S&P, said the
rating company is looking closely at the proposal.  “Standard & Poor’s has begun assessing the potential
impact on bank ratings from the proposed changes to Danish bond
legislation,” he said by e-mail. “We may comment on the draft
proposal to revise bond legislation as soon as possible.”  The likelihood of a sudden 5 percentage point rate rise is
slim, according to the ministry. Only once in the past 150 years
have rates fluctuated more than that over a 12-month period, it
said. That improbability will limit the risk premium investors
will charge, said Soeren Holm, chief financial officer at
Copenhagen-based Nykredit Realkredit A/S,  Europe ’s largest
issuer of mortgage-backed covered bonds.  Nykredit estimates “the extra price that will result from
this extra feature will be under 5 basis points,” Holm said by
phone. “We get a good solution that’s cheap.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  