-- Denmark Breaks With Currency Defense Tradition After ECB Cut
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-11-07T15:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/denmark-breaks-with-currency-defense-tradition-after-ecb-cut-1-.html
Denmark held its key policy rate
unchanged, breaking with a custom of following the  European
Central Bank  after it unexpectedly lowered its benchmark rate to
rekindle inflation in the euro area.  The Danish central bank held its lending rate at 0.2
percent, following a quarter-point cut by the ECB to 0.25
percent earlier today, Copenhagen-based Nationalbanken said.
It’s the first time since October 2008 Denmark hasn’t followed
an ECB move with a change in rates. The bank kept its  deposit
rate  at minus 0.1 percent, compared with the ECB’s 0 percent
rate. The Danish rate has been below zero since July last year.  The bank only adjusts rates to defend the krone’s peg to
the euro and typically moves in steps after the ECB. In January,
it raised rates by 10 basis points after signs of improvement in
the euro area resulted in an outflow of funds from  Denmark .  “The krone is relatively weak versus the euro,” said
Rasmus Gudum, an economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in
Copenhagen, in a note.  Denmark had come under pressure to fight off krone
appreciation after the AAA-rated nation emerged last year as a
haven during the euro area’s debt crisis. Central Bank Governor
Lars Rohde in May cut the lending rate and said in June there’s
no limit to how far below zero the deposit rate could fall to
defend the krone peg. He’s said the lending rate can’t drop
below zero.  Bit Surprised  The krone gained 0.01 percent to 7.4581 against the euro as
of 4:03 p.m. local time. The central bank targets a rate of
7.46038 against  Europe ’s single currency inside a 2.25 percent
band. Based on closing prices, the krone strengthened the most
since Sept. 27.  Denmark’s foreign currency reserves were 491 billion kroner
in October, staying close to an all-time high. Denmark’s emerged
as a haven last year as the nation keeps public debt at less
than half the average in the single currency bloc, relative to
gross domestic product. Foreign currency reserves reached a peak
of 514.4 billion kroner in August last year.  “It’s a bit of a surprise that the central bank stays
calm,” said Jens Naervig Pedersen, an analyst at Danske Bank
A/S. “We had expected Nationalbanken to copy its response from
May, when the ECB cut its key rate last, and lower the rate by
0.1 percentage point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  