-- Detroit’s Pension Offer Not Serious, Adviser Robins Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-11-07T21:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/detroit-pension-offer-not-serious-greenhill-s-robins-says-1-.html
Detroit ’s offer to replace a
$3.5 billion unfunded pension liability with a $2 billion note
“was not a serious proposal,” according to a  Greenhill & Co. (GHL) 
adviser hired by a city employee retirement fund.  Greenhill & Co.’s Bradley A. Robins today told the judge
who will decide whether Detroit can remain under bankruptcy
court protection that he couldn’t respond to the city’s pension
proposal because it was too vague and because the city didn’t
give him and other financial advisers for creditors details of
its assets.  “I viewed it more as a shot across the bow,” said Robins,
who worked as an adviser in the bankruptcies of  American
Airlines  and  United Airlines (UAL) , where pensions were also
threatened.  “The note itself I thought was not a serious proposal”
because it had only a 1.5 percent interest rate and no maturity
date, Robins said. The note would be shared with other unsecured
creditors, including investors owed more than
$1.4 billion for pension obligation bonds.  Municipal unions and retiree groups, including the main
pension fund for city employees, want U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Steven Rhodes to throw Detroit out of bankruptcy, where it is
protected from lawsuits and other actions that may disrupt its
restructuring efforts.  Pension Cuts  The unions and retirees claim Detroit’s emergency manager,
Kevyn Orr, didn’t try to negotiate with creditors because he and
state officials were determined to use bankruptcy to cut
pensions that would otherwise be protected by the state
constitution.  After Robins and two other witnesses testified, objectors
completed presenting their case against bankruptcy. Rhodes
scheduled closing arguments, which may last more than four
hours, for tomorrow.  The trial has lasted eight days and featured testimony from
Orr, Governor  Rick Snyder  and former Michigan treasurer Andy Dillon, all of whom defended the bankruptcy as necessary.  About a month before the July 18 filing, Orr proposed
canceling the unfunded  liability  owed to the city’s two pension
funds and the unsecured pension bonds held by investors.  Snyder, a Republican, who nominated Orr, a corporate lawyer
and former Democratic political appointee, both testified that
the proposal was necessary because the city doesn’t have enough
money to cover the debt.  Snyder Appointment  Dillon, a Democrat appointed treasurer by Snyder, testified
that Michigan lawmakers wouldn’t be willing to provide any money
to cover the cost of Detroit’s pension system or retiree health
care. Dillon is a former speaker of the  Michigan  House of
Representatives.  To remain in bankruptcy, the city must convince Rhodes that
it’s insolvent, that it’s entitled under state law to file for
bankruptcy, that it tried to negotiate with creditors or was
unable to do so, and that it intends to file a plan to adjust
its debts.  Union and retiree lawyers argued Detroit fails those tests
because it didn’t try to negotiate and because Snyder violated
Michigan’s constitutional ban on cutting pensions when he
authorized the bankruptcy.  The case is In re City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  