-- Deutsche Telekom Sales Exceed Estimates on T-Mobile US
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-11-07T11:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/deutsche-telekom-sales-exceed-estimates-on-t-mobile-us-recovery.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  reported a second
consecutive quarter of revenue growth, propelled by a recovery
in the U.S. mobile-phone business, while price competition in
 Europe  hurt profitability.  Third-quarter sales rose 6 percent to 15.5 billion euros
($21 billion), the fastest pace in four years and topping the
15.2 billion-euro analyst  estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.
Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization slipped 2.6 percent to 4.66 billion euros. The
Bonn-based company cited higher investments in the Netherlands
and price wars in eastern Europe.  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , the carrier Deutsche Telekom merged with
MetroPCS Communications Inc. six months ago, added customers for
a second straight period, bolstered by its cheaper service plan
and phone upgrade strategy. As Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges prepares to fully take over from Chief Executive
Officer  Rene Obermann , the European operations will take a
greater focus, with the German market shaken up by two multi-billion-dollar wireless and cable takeovers within months.  “The company will now likely ramp up investments and
marketing spend,” said Adrian Pehl, an analyst at Equinet AG in
Frankfurt. “They are on the right track.”  Telefonica, KPN  In  Germany , Deutsche Telekom added 470,000 contract
wireless customers. Revenue declined 1.2 percent, and adjusted
Ebitda slipped 1.1 percent. During the quarter,  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
and  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  agreed to combine their German mobile-phone
units, a deal that would cut the country’s four network
operators to three.  “We did manage to distance ourselves from the trends that
dogged our European rivals during the third quarter,” Obermann
said of a conference call. “Deutsche Telekom is growing,
something we have been working hard to achieve for a long
time.”  Deutsche Telekom’s mobile services revenue in Germany,
excluding the effect of reduced termination charges, fell 1
percent in the quarter, Hoettges said. The company estimated
that mobile services revenue shrank by 4.7 percent in the wider
German market.  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D) , which competes in
Germany against Deutsche Telekom with its O2 brand, said today
it added 55,000 subscriptions and 110,000 pay-as-you-go
customers in the third quarter.  Shares Fall  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , Deutsche Telekom’s biggest rival in
Germany, last month completed its acquisition of cable operator
 Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  for about $10 billion.  Deutsche Telekom fell 3 percent to 11.26 euros at 12.34
p.m. in Frankfurt. Before today, the shares had gained 29
percent since the completion of the T-Mobile US transaction in
May. That compares with a 17 percent  increase  by the 24-company
Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication Services Index in the same
period.  Third-quarter net income was 588 million euros, trailing
analysts’ average estimate of 597 million euros.  Deutsche Telekom reiterated its forecasts for full-year
adjusted Ebitda of about 17.5 billion euros and so-called free
cash flow of about 4.5 billion euros.  T-Mobile US added 648,000 monthly subscribers last quarter,
topping a 401,000 average estimate, and forecast it will add as
many as 1.8 million subscribers this year.  U.S. ‘Sensational’  While Deutsche Telekom said results in the U.S. were
“sensational,” operators in European countries including the
 Czech Republic  and  Croatia  are competing for customers in an
intensifying “price war.” Ebitda in the Czech Republic slumped
27 percent in the quarter, while in Croatia it fell 21 percent.
In the Netherlands, where the company increased investment
spending, Ebitda declined 19 percent.  Deutsche Telekom is upgrading its landline network to fend
off cable providers’ broadband offers. This week, the company
suffered a setback when a court struck down its plan to throttle
the speed of fixed-line  Internet access  when customers on flat-rate plans surpass a certain data volume.  T-Mobile U.S. had a third-quarter  net loss  of $36 million,
following a second-quarter net loss of $16 million. The unit’s
average phone bill for monthly subscribers shrank about 3
percent to $52.20 from the second quarter as more customers
opted for cheaper plans. Analysts had projected $52.86,
according to a survey of seven estimates by Bloomberg.  “Be assured we have a Plan B and a Plan C” for the U.S.
unit, CFO Hoettges said on a call, adding that the company
wouldn’t reveal details of those plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  