-- Dia Art Center Founders Sue to Block Sotheby’s Auction
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-11-08T18:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/dia-art-center-founder-sues-to-block-sotheby-s-auction.html
The founders of New York’s  Dia Art
Foundation  sued the organization and Sotheby’s to block the
auctioning of artworks they say were donated with the intention
of keeping them available to the public.  Heiner Friedrich and his ex-wife, Fariha Friedrich, who
started the foundation with art historian Helen Winkler, filed
the suit yesterday in state Supreme Court in Manhattan.  The sales, scheduled to take place at Sotheby’s on Nov. 13
and 14, include works by Barnett Newman, Cy Twombly and John
Chamberlain that the plaintiffs said they donated or loaned to
Dia in the 1970s and 1980.  “Dia’s proposed auction of the subject works would remove
the works from public access and viewing in direct contravention
of Dia’s entire intent and purpose and of plaintiffs’
arrangements and understandings with Dia,” the Friedrichs said
in the complaint.  Heiner Friedrich said he started the foundation in 1974 to
help artists execute “visionary projects” that might not
otherwise be completed because of their size and scope, and to
make them available to the public.  Dia was intended “to alleviate the artists’ dependency on
the commercial art market and to make works permanently
available for public access and viewing,” according to the
complaint.  Former Factory  Dia supports artists with exhibition space and funds for
long-term projects. The foundation in 2003 opened a 300,000-square-foot museum in a former factory in Beacon, New York, with
works by artists of the 1960s and 1970s, including Chamberlain,
Sol LeWitt and Donald Judd.  Heiner Friedrich hasn’t been on the foundation’s board
since 1985, and his ex-wife is a trustee emeritus, according to
the complaint. Heiner Friedrich said he met with Dia’s current
director, Philippe Vergne, in June and was told that the
foundation was considering a private sale of some of its
original collection to fund other works.  Friedrich “strongly objected” to the sales, which would
contradict the foundation’s purpose, and he and his ex-wife
hoped that the pieces would be sold to another museum, according
to the complaint. The Friedrichs said they later learned that
the foundation rejected a museum’s offer to buy the works.  “Such private sales would comprise a betrayal of the Dia
founders’ intent in establishing Dia and of the artists’
trust,” the Friedrichs said in the complaint.  Two Auctions  The works are scheduled to be sold during two  auctions  of
contemporary art to be held at  Sotheby’s (BID)  in New York next week,
on the evening of Nov. 13 and the following day. Other works
being sold include artwork from the collection of billionaire
hedge-fund manager Steven A. Cohen, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Cohen regularly buys and sells art at auctions, and his
works by Twombley, Andy Warhol, Gerhard Richter, Brice Marden
and Joan Mitchell have been estimated at as much as $85 million,
or about 20 percent of the $424.6 million Nov. 13 auction.  Cohen’s SAC Capital Advisors LP agreed to plead guilty to
securities-fraud and wire-fraud charges, the government said
Nov. 4. SAC, which was indicted earlier this year, was accused
of reaping hundreds of millions of dollars in illegal profit
through insider trade by employees dating to 1999.  Sotheby’s and the foundation didn’t respond to messages
seeking comment on the suit.  The Friedrichs asked for a temporary restraining order and
preliminary injunction stopping the sale, as well as a
declaration that the auction violates the agreement between the
foundation and its founders.  The case is Friedrich v. Dia Art Foundation, 160379/2013,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 