-- Disney to Create Four Series With Marvel Heroes for Netflix
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-11-07T18:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/disney-to-create-four-series-for-netflix-using-marvel-characters.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  agreed to create four
television series for  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  using Marvel characters such
as Daredevil, adding to the online-streaming service’s growing
lineup of original content.  Disney’s Marvel TV will start bringing the shows to Netflix
in 2015, according to a statement today. They will focus on
heroes battling villains in New York’s Hell’s Kitchen. Netflix
committed to a minimum of four 13-episode series, culminating in
the miniseries “The Defenders.”  The multiyear deal extends Marvel’s push into live-action
TV, following the September debut of “Marvel’s Agents of
S.H.I.E.L.D.” on Disney’s ABC network. Netflix gains more
Disney content following an agreement last year for rights to
show movies including Marvel, Pixar and Lucasfilm titles.  “What’s exciting for a company like Disney and us is the
willingness to try something new,” Netflix Chief Content
Officer Ted Sarandos said Nov. 4 at the Business of
Entertainment event in Los Angeles, sponsored by Bloomberg and
the Tribeca Film Festival.  Disney is mining deeper in Marvel’s library following box-office success since purchasing the comic-book company in 2009.
“Marvel’s The Avengers” and “Iron Man 3” were the top-grossing films of 2012 and 2013 respectively. “Guardians of the
Galaxy,” about a team of superheroes in space, is planned for
next year, and an Ant-Man movie is scheduled for 2015.  The Defenders alliance has featured a shifting cast of
Marvel characters since its comic-book debut in 1971. Hulk,
Silver Surfer and Hellcat have all made appearances.  Hell’s Kitchen  The first of the new Hell’s Kitchen series, based on
Daredevil, will be followed by shows with characters Jessica
Jones, Iron Fist and Luke Cage.  Netflix is expanding its content investment as it battles
with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the largest online retailer, and Hulu LLC
for online viewers. In the third quarter, Los Gatos, California-based Netflix passed  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s premium-cable outlet  HBO 
in paid U.S. subscribers, and reached a domestic total of 31.1
million.  Shares of Los Gatos, California-based Netflix fell 1.8
percent to $329.64 at 1:44 p.m. in New York, while Burbank,
California-based Disney fell 1.9 percent to $67.68.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  