-- Dodd-Frank Derivatives Momentum Threatened by Vacancies on CFTC
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-11-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/dodd-frank-derivatives-momentum-threatened-by-vacancies-on-cftc.html
The top U.S. derivatives regulator
may dwindle to just two voting commissioners and struggle to
approve new rules unless the White House and Senate can overcome
political hurdles to fill the vacancies by the end of the year.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which is designed
to have five members regulate trading by banks including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , could instead have
only one Democrat and one Republican early next year. The split
would probably delay votes on contentious Dodd-Frank Act
regulations.  The possible gridlock comes as the agency tries to flex its
powers under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, which gave the commission
oversight of the $633 trillion swaps market after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the credit crisis.  A two-member commission “creates some hurdles in terms of
bringing new significant rule changes or significant reviews,”
said Sharon Brown-Hruska, who served at the CFTC from 2002 to
2006 and was present when the agency had only two members. More
routine daily business could still proceed, said Brown-Hruska, a
visiting professor at  Tulane University  in  New Orleans .  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler ’s term expires at the end of the
year, while  Bart Chilton , a Democratic commissioner, said this
week that he will also leave this year. A third spot has been
vacant since July when Jill E. Sommers, a Republican, stepped
down from the agency.  Candidates Ready  President  Barack Obama ’s administration, which spent a year
considering candidates to succeed Gensler, now has a slate of
nominees in mind for all the openings, according to people
briefed on the deliberations. Still, even if the White House
officially nominates replacements soon, it could take months for
Senate confirmation.  “Even if the president nominates new commissioners
tomorrow, it would take a Christmas miracle for them to be
confirmed before the end of the year,” Fred Hatfield, a former
CFTC commissioner and senior adviser to regulatory consulting
firm Patomak Global Partners LLC, said yesterday.  Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the CFTC openings.  Chilton, who sought limits on speculation in oil, natural
gas and other commodities and curbs on high-frequency trading,
said he probably wouldn’t be present for another meeting on
Dodd-Frank rules. The agency is planning a Dec. 12 meeting on
rules including limits on proprietary trading at Wall Street
banks, according to two people with knowledge of the schedule.  Possible Nominees  “I anticipate being gone by the end of the year if not
sooner,” Chilton said in a telephone interview Nov. 6. Gensler
said on Nov. 6 that he was trying to persuade Chilton to stay at
the agency longer.  Timothy Massad, a Treasury Department official responsible
for overseeing the rescue of banks and automakers, is under
consideration to succeed Gensler, a person familiar with the
matter said in October.  Meanwhile, Sharon Y. Bowen, a securities lawyer at Latham &
Watkins LLP in  New York , is being considered to replace Chilton,
four people in the financial industry said this week. Bowen is
also the acting chairman of the Securities Investor Protection
Corp., created by Congress to restore funds to investors who
lost money in bankrupt or financially troubled brokerage firms.  Their possible nominations and the pending nomination of J. Christopher Giancarlo, an executive at New York-based inter-dealer broker  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG)  to replace Sommers, could face
hurdles in the Senate which has split along party lines. A
three-month bipartisan truce over nominees broke down on Oct. 31
when Republicans opposed two of Obama’s candidates, including
Representative Mel Watt to head the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency .  Senate Hurdles  Action on any possible nominee could also slip into next
year because the Senate is planning to be out of session from
Nov. 22 to Dec. 9, and committees typically take several weeks
to review nominees’ paperwork and to schedule confirmation
hearings and votes. A single senator can also hold up a vote on
a confirmation.  “I believe the president should quickly nominate
experienced, independent candidates who have the knowledge
necessary to oversee derivatives markets, even as they continue
to evolve,” Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat,
said Nov. 6. She said she was disappointed that neither Chilton
nor Gensler was reappointed.  A split along party lines at the commission could slow
final votes on rules including limits on speculation. The CFTC
this week released a second proposal for limits on traders’
positions in commodity markets after a federal judge last year
said the agency’s first attempt failed to demonstrate why they
were necessary.  Two Remaining  The two CFTC members who would stay after the end of the
year split on the proposal, with Democrat Mark Wetjen supporting
its publication and Republican  Scott O’Malia  opposing it.  “As a matter of pragmatism, it just seems like the amount
of policy making you can do with a two-person commission as
opposed to a fuller one is going to be diminished,” Wetjen said
in an interview.  Work on Dodd-Frank regulations may slow even as the agency
has completed most rules to have swaps reported to regulators,
guaranteed at clearinghouses and executed on new trading
systems.  New Regulations  The commission is drafting new regulations for collateral
requirements for swaps that aren’t guaranteed at the
clearinghouses. Also under consideration are decisions on which
types of swaps must be traded on new exchanges and if additional
swaps must be guaranteed at the clearinghouses owned by  CME
Group (CME)  Inc., LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Intercontinental
Exchange Inc.  At the same time, the CFTC along with the Federal Reserve
Board have examined banks’ commodity trading and their ownership
of refineries of warehouses. The CFTC has issued subpoenas to
Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and other operators of metal warehouses
after brewer MillerCoors LLC and others complained of long waits
for materials.  Adding to the CFTC’s challenges is a looming funding
crisis; the agency is planning furloughs for workers and
Congress has shown no sign of increasing its annual budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  