-- Dollar Little Changed Before October Jobs Report; Krona Slumps
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-11-08T13:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/dollar-holds-gains-before-jobs-data-as-gdp-boosts-fed-taper-bets.html
The dollar was little changed against
most major peers as investors awaited U.S. employment reports
that may clarify the case for Federal Reserve policy makers to
reduce stimulus measures.  The euro was set for its biggest two-week decline in more
than a year versus the greenback after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered
 France ’s credit rating, adding to pressure on the common
currency after an interest-rate cut yesterday. Sweden’s krona
fell to the weakest in more than four months against the euro
after a report showed industrial production stagnated. A  dollar 
gauge rose to an eight-week high yesterday as data showed the
economy expanded more than forecast.  “We’re more likely to get positive rather than negative
surprises out of the U.S. data given the lowered expectations,”
said  Ian Stannard , the head of European foreign-exchange
strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “If we saw such a
positive reading that would translate through into dollar
strength rather than a more risk positive environment.”  The Bloomberg  U.S. Dollar  Index, which monitors the
currency against 10 major counterparts, was at 1,016.98 as of
8:06 a.m.  New York  time after touching 1,022.30 yesterday, the
highest level since Sept. 13.  The dollar was little changed at $1.3413 per euro after
appreciating to $1.3296 yesterday, the strongest level since
Sept. 16. It rose 0.5 percent this week. The greenback was
little changed at 98.11 yen , having declined 0.6 percent this
week. The common currency has dropped 2.8 percent over the past
two weeks, the biggest such slide since July 2012. The euro
traded at 131.66 yen.  Jobs Report  U.S. nonfarm payrolls rose by 120,000 last month after a
148,000 gain in September, a Bloomberg News survey of economists
indicated before today’s Labor Department data.  Gross domestic product in the U.S. grew at a 2.8 percent
annualized rate in the third quarter, up from 2.5 percent in the
previous three months, according to a Commerce Department report
yesterday. Economists forecast a 2 percent expansion.  The strong GDP report may produce an “upward surprise” in
the nonfarm payrolls number, though unemployment may rise,
according to  Richard Grace , the Sydney-based chief currency
strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)   “We’ll see a mixed message in the labor market,” Grace
said. “The volatility in the  unemployment rate  is less likely
to last and can be somewhat explained by the partial government
shutdown. Hence we see upside risk to the U.S. dollar.”  Europe ’s single currency has gained 5.4 percent this year,
the best performer among 10 developed-market peers tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has fallen 10
percent, the biggest decliner, while the dollar has gained 3.4
percent.  French Growth  S&P said France’s slower growth will constrain the
government’s ability to improve public finances and played down
the impact of President  Francois Hollande ’s reforms. The
nation’s long-term foreign and local-currency grade was lowered
one step to AA from AA+, S&P said in a statement. France lost
the top rating at S&P in January 2012. The outlook on the grade,
now the third highest, is stable.  “For France, the main issue is a lack of economic growth
and a lack of reform,” said David Forrester, a senior vice
president for Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Macquarie
Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “The risks to the euro remain to the
downside.”  The ECB yesterday reduced its main refinancing rate to  0.25
percent. (EURR002W)  President  Mario Draghi  pushed for the cut over
opposition from Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann and at least
two other Governing Council members who wanted to wait until
next month to decide, according to euro-area central bank
officials who asked not to be identified.  Heavy Euro  A report published on Oct. 31 showed the region’s annual
inflation rate unexpectedly fell to 0.7 percent last month, the
least since November 2009.  “With the ECB reaffirming its easing bias, the euro will
remain heavy,” said Yuki Sakasai, a foreign-exchange strategist
in New York at Barclays Plc. “People will be watching euro zone
inflation very carefully.”  There is an almost 50 percent probability the euro, which
has risen more than 5 percent against the greenback since
reaching a 2013 low in April, will give back its increase by
mid-2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The odds are
the highest in seven weeks and up from 37 percent prior to the
ECB lowering its key rate.  Krona Slides  Sweden’s krona dropped against all 16 of its major peers
tracked by Bloomberg after a report showed industrial production
was unchanged in September from a month earlier. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a 1.3 percent increase.  The weak data “will fuel speculation that the Riksbank
will have to cut rates,” Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, head of
foreign-exchange research at Danske Bank in Copenhagen, wrote in
an e-mailed report. “Needless to say that this is negative for
the Swedish krona.”  Sweden’s krona weakened for a second day versus the dollar,
slipping 0.7 percent to 6.5793. It fell for the first time in
five days against the euro, also depreciating 0.7 percent, to
8.8262. It earlier touched 8.8469, the weakest level since June
25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  