-- ECB Cuts Rate to Fight ‘Prolonged’ Inflation Weakness
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-11-07T16:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/draghi-cuts-ecb-rate-to-fight-risk-of-prolonged-price-weakness.html
(Corrects third, eighth paragraphs to specify inflation
rather than rate outlook. For more on Europe’s debt crisis, see
TOP CRIS.)  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi warned the euro area risks a “prolonged period” of low
inflation as the bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a
record.  Pledging to keep borrowing costs low for an “extended
period,” Draghi said weakening price pressures justified the
ECB’s surprise decision to cut its main refinancing rate today
by a quarter point to 0.25 percent. Just three of 70 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News anticipated the action even after
 inflation  faded to its slowest in four years.  “Our monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for
as long as necessary,” Draghi told reporters in Frankfurt.
Officials will provide more detail on the inflation outlook at
next month’s meeting, he said.  The ECB now has just one more  quarter-point cut  left before
its main rate reaches zero, increasing the likelihood of
unconventional tools such as a negative deposit rate if prices
slow further or the economic recovery stalls. Euro-area
 inflation  is less than half the ECB’s ceiling and  unemployment 
is at the highest level since the currency bloc was formed in
1999.  The ECB kept its  deposit rate  at zero and trimmed the
marginal lending rate to 0.75 percent, allowing Draghi to say
the ECB still had conventional policies to deploy if needed. The
bank also will extend its unlimited offerings of one-month and
three-month cash until the middle of 2015, he said.  Money Markets  “We continue to monitor closely money market conditions
and their potential impact on our monetary policy stance,”
Draghi said. “We are ready to consider all available
instruments.”  The euro fell the most in almost two years versus the
dollar, touching $1.3296, the lowest since Sept. 16. Euro-area
government bonds rose, led by Italian and Spanish securities,
with  Germany ’s two-year rate dropping to the least since July.  The ECB is among the central banks using so-called forward
guidance in an effort to avoid market rates from rising too soon
and to encourage consumers and companies to spend. On how long
inflation may remain low, Draghi said today that officials will
be “clearer on the length of time of this period in December.''  Draghi’s ECB sprang into action as the euro region’s
economy shows signs of fragility. Unemployment is at 12.2
percent and the euro has climbed almost 5 percent against its
major peers this year in a challenge to exporters.  Deflation Spiral  That’s sparked fears that the economy could slip into a
deflationary cycle, angst that was fueled when a report last
week showed inflation unexpectedly slowed in October to 0.7
percent. That compares with an ECB target of “close to but
below” 2 percent.  “There comes a point where inflation is so weak, and
coming in weaker than anticipated, that the case for loosening
policy becomes too hard to resist,” said Richard Barwell,
senior European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 London , who predicted the cut. “Bad unemployment numbers only
make the case stronger.”  Beyond rate cuts and further liquidity measures, more
expansive actions may still be harder to countenance. A Federal
Reserve-style quantitative easing program has repeatedly been
ruled out by ECB policy makers. The central bank is barred by
European Union treaties from financing state debt, making large-scale purchases of government bonds open to a legal challenge.  While Draghi again floated the prospect of a negative
deposit rate, the rate for commercial lenders who park excess
cash at the central bank, officials have said that its effects
can’t be adequately predicted.  Negative Rates  A negative deposit rate could hurt banks’ profitability by
lowering money-market rates, potentially hampering credit supply
to companies and households and reducing banks’ incentive to
lend to other financial institutions.  Today’s decision aligns the ECB with other central banks in
reinforcing rather than retracting loose monetary policy amid
sluggish economic growth and soft inflation. The Fed decided in
September not to taper its asset purchase program, while the
Bank of Canada dropped language last month about the need for
future rate increases.  Emerging markets  from  Israel  to  Chile 
have cut borrowing costs since the start of September.  Taking Office  The unexpected nature of the rate cut underscores Draghi’s
status as a central banker prepared to tackle head on the
challenges facing the euro.  Since he took office almost exactly two years ago, Draghi
has cut rates by a cumulative 1.25 percentage points, pumped
unlimited quantities of three-year loans into the financial
system and pledged to do “whatever it takes” to defend the
euro. That announcement, in the teeth of criticism from some
central bankers in Europe, helped draw a line under the region’s
debt crisis.  “I have a huge amount of respect for the Draghi regime,”
said Kit Juckes, global strategist at Societe Generale SA in
London. “He is incredibly imaginative and innovative, even if
he isn’t armed with big enough weapons.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  