-- Fed’s Dudley Says Banker Pay Rules Could Help Curb Risk-Taking
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-11-07T20:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/dudley-sees-need-for-tougher-oversight-of-too-big-to-fail-firms.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said regulators should consider
imposing compensation structures to strengthen bank executives’
incentives to “proactively manage risk.”  “Imagine how incentives would change if a significant
portion of senior bank management’s compensation each year were
deferred to be available to cover future capital losses,”
Dudley, 60, said today in a speech in New York. “The terms and
the form of deferred compensation are an important tool that
could be further developed to generate a better set of
incentives consistent with our financial stability objectives.”  Regulators should tighten oversight of financial
institutions to reduce the odds of failure, even while
developing a system to wind down troubled banks, Dudley said.
The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act requires the largest firms to prepare
living wills that describe how they would be wound down in a
bankruptcy.  “We also need to create new mechanisms and incentives for
bank management to act early, well before resolution becomes
necessary,” Dudley said. “These actions can take many forms --
cutting capital distributions earlier, raising new capital
faster, restructuring businesses sooner, and reorganizing senior
management and boards of directors more radically when the firm
is not performing well.”  Supervisors should also consider changing the form of
deferred compensation, Dudley said.  ‘Risk Tolerance’  “If most of the deferred compensation were in the form of
debt rather than equity, I suspect this would also affect
management’s risk tolerance and the appetite to cut dividend
payments, reduce share repurchases or raise more capital more
promptly when the firm began to become stressed,” he said.  U.S. stocks and commodities slid as faster economic growth
spurred concern  the Fed  will scale back stimulus sooner than
expected, while Twitter Inc. surged in its trading debut. The
euro fell, while the region’s bonds rose, as the  European
Central Bank  cut  interest rates . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
declined 0.9 percent to 1,754.08 at 2:55 p.m. in New York.  The New York Fed president said he disagrees with the
“idea that we’re close to overburdening the banking system”
with too stringent  capital requirements  that will damage credit
creation. Tougher oversight has been “a huge benefit to the
 United States ,” Dudley said in response to an audience
question.  Dudley, who didn’t comment on the outlook for the economy
or monetary policy in his prepared remarks, also criticized Wall
Street culture and said increased oversight may not go far
enough toward addressing that issue.  ‘Current Regime’  “Collectively these enhancements to our current regime may
not solve another important problem evident within some large
financial institutions --- the apparent lack of respect for law,
regulation and the public trust,” Dudley said. “There is
evidence of deep-seated cultural and ethical failures at many
large financial institutions.”  Still, “tough enforcement and high penalties” would help
motivate bankers to correct legal and ethical lapses, he said.  Dudley said he’s “not yet convinced” that breaking up so-called too-big-to-fail institutions is “the right approach.”  “Evaluating the socially optimal size, scope and
organizational structure of financial firms is a complicated
exercise, and so is establishing a viable transition path to a
system of much smaller banks,” Dudley said.  “It would be helpful in this regard if advocates of the
break-up solutions would develop detailed proposals that address
the essential questions of how such downsizing or functional
separation would be accomplished, and what the expected benefits
and costs could be from such a restructuring,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  