-- EDF Raises Cost-Cut Target and Reviews Strategy, Spending
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-11-07T13:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/edf-says-nine-month-sales-gain-while-raising-cost-cutting-target.html
Electricite de France SA (EDF) ,  Europe ’s
biggest power generator, raised a target for cost savings and
said it is reviewing industrial strategy and spending plans.  EDF expects to cut costs by 1.2 billion euros ($1.6
billion) this year, 20 percent more than planned, according to a
statement published today detailing revenue for the first nine
months. Sales rose 2.9 percent on a like-for-like basis to 55.1
billion euros, due partly to higher power prices in  France .  A forecast for 2013 French atomic output was cut because of
longer-than-planned reactor outages in the third quarter, the
Paris-based utility said.  EDF is expanding nuclear operations abroad after reaching a
deal this month to develop two reactors in the U.K., where it
already owns eight plants. The utility’s oldest reactors are
entering a period of prolonged safety halts to determine whether
they can run for another decade.  Part of the industrial strategy review will include “our
ability to manage planned outages,” Thomas Piquemal, chief
financial officer, said on a conference call. He said he
couldn’t reveal longer-term targets because of unresolved issues
on wholesale nuclear power rates and spending at its ERDF
distributor.  Extended Outages  “We are experiencing a high level of outage extensions
related to important technical issues at a handful of nuclear
plants,” Philippe Sasseigne, head of French nuclear production,
said on the conference call. Problems including restarting
reactors were experienced at plants such as Cattenom, Chinon and
Saint-Laurent-des-Eaux and cost EDF about 400 days of production
in September and October.  As a result, EDF cut a target for atomic output this year
to 405 terawatt-hours to 410 terawatt-hours compared with 410
terawatt-hours to 415 terawatt-hours. Production declined to 405
terawatt-hours last year from 421 terawatt-hours in 2011.  The company operates 58 nuclear reactors in France that
provide three-quarters of power output in the world’s most
nuclear-dependent country.  The company reiterated targets for 2013, Chief Executive
Officer  Henri Proglio  said in the statement. French tariff
increases added 500 million euros in sales, while cold weather
resulted in 625 million euros more, according to the statement.  In  Italy , EDF’s distributor Edison SpA “continues to be
hit by the drop in the price of gas which continues to weigh
heavily on sales and margins,” the utility said. It reiterated
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
would be about 1 billion euros this year for Edison.  Contract Disputes  “Volatility” of Edison earnings may continue next year as
EDF seeks to resolve contract disputes for long-term gas
supplies through arbitration, according to Piquemal. EDF is
“prepared to go to the final stage of the arbitration process
so it might take longer than expected.”  The utility maintained a forecast that Ebitda will grow at
least 3 percent this year, excluding results from the utility’s
Italian Edison unit. Piquemal said he was “comfortable” with
earnings consensus for 2013.  Executives have declined to hold an Investor Day to discuss
longer term spending plans and strategy, citing too many
regulatory unknowns. Piquemal again today said the utility had
to get agreements on future spending at ERDF power networks as
well as the price level for wholesale nuclear power to rivals
before it could hold an event.  “Our investors deserve to have a mid-term vision again,”
he said. “As soon as we can do it, we intend to do it.”  U.K. Plant  The  utility  this month reached a deal with the U.K. to
develop two reactors for about 16 billion pounds ($26 billion).
EDF will earn at least 92.50 pounds a megawatt-hour over a
period of 35 years from the reactors. The U.K. will offer loan
guarantees to help 65 percent of the cost of construction.  EDF faces an estimated 55 billion euros of costs to improve
safety and extend lives of French plants through 2025 after
regulators tightened rules following the 2011 disaster at
 Japan ’s Fukushima nuclear plant.  President  Francois Hollande  has vowed to cut dependence on
atomic energy and shut EDF’s oldest French plant in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  