-- HeidelbergCement Quarterly Profit Falls 7% on Weaker Currencies
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-11-07T06:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/heidelbergcement-quarterly-profit-falls-7-on-weaker-currencies.html
HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s
third-largest maker of cement, said third-quarter profit fell 7
percent hurt by weaker currencies in  emerging markets .  Operating income before depreciation was 811 million euros
($1.1 billion) in the third quarter compared with 872 million
euros a year ago, the Heidelberg, Germany-based company said
today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer Bernd Scheifele today reiterated a
full-year forecast for revenue and operating income to gain with
pretax profit to rise “significantly.” Lower energy and raw
material costs as well as price increases couldn’t compensate
for the negative currency effects, the company said today.  “We had to face growing headwind in revenue and operating
income in the third quarter due to the significant strengthening
of the euro,” the company said in today’s statement.  The shares have gained 29 percent this year, boosting the
company’s market value to 11.1 billion euros. The Merckle family
holds 25 percent of the company’s stock, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales fell 1.3 percent to 3.89 billion euros in the third
quarter. Net income more than doubled to 580 million euros.  The company, which dates back to 1873, is pursuing 1.01
billion euros in cost savings by the end of 2013 as demand for
building materials drops in parts of  Europe  amid recessions in
the region.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  and  Lafarge SA (LG) , the two biggest cement makers,
both said earlier this week that they are pushing ahead with
cost-cutting measures to boost profitability amid lackluster
demand and higher energy costs. Holcim cut its sales forecast
for the year on disappointing shipments in India, Mexico and
Canada, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  