-- Eletropaulo Rallies Most Since June on Surprise Quarterly Profit
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-11-07T14:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/eletropaulo-rallies-most-since-june-on-surprise-quarterly-profit.html
Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA, the
Brazilian power distribution unit of U.S.-based  AES Corp. (AES) ,
gained the most in five months after the company posted a
surprise profit as it reduced costs.  Shares  rose  8.3 percent to 9.42 reais at 12:38 p.m. in Sao
Paulo, the most since June 14. Trading volume was 1.4 times the
full-day average of the past three months. The Ibovespa
Brazilian equity benchmark gained 0.1 percent.  Eletropaulo reduced its third-quarter personnel and
materials expenses by 11 percent from last year, according to a
regulatory filing after the market closed yesterday. The company
also said it paid 1.7 percent less than a year ago for the
energy it purchased for distribution.  The expense reductions “signal that the company is trying
to adapt to its new reality after a rate review,” Ricardo Correa, director of analysis at the Rio de Janeiro-based
brokerage Ativa Corretora, wrote in a note to clients today.  Brazil ’s power regulator ordered Eletropaulo to reduce the
rates it charges customers by an average 2.3 percent last year
and didn’t allow an increase this year.  Adjusted net income doubled to 27 million reais ($11.8
million) in the three months through September from the same
period a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
after the company released results yesterday. The average
estimate among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a loss of
130.5 million reais.  Eletropaulo has the worst  recommendation consensus  among
Brazilian power utilities, with 10 sells, three holds and one
buy, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  