-- Elliott Says It Has No Interest in Argentine Creditor Talks
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-11-07T22:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/elliott-says-not-interested-in-talks-without-argentina-backing.html
Elliott Management Corp., the hedge
fund run by billionaire  Paul Singer  that owns defaulted
Argentine debt, said it’s only willing to negotiate a settlement
with the government and has no interest in holding talks with
fellow bondholders.  “We welcome the idea of good-faith negotiations with
 Argentina , but we don’t see the point of negotiating with other
bondholders,” Elliott, which is seeking full repayment in U.S.
courts, said in a statement. “We have approached Argentina
countless times about negotiating a resolution to this dispute.
It is completely within Argentina’s power to solve this.”  Gramercy Funds Management LLC, the Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund that helped orchestrate the nation’s second
restructuring in 2010, is seeking support from other holders of
restructured securities to devise a plan to help settle lawsuits
against the country, according to bondholders approached by
officials from the firm. Gramercy’s initial proposal called for
holders of restructured bonds to hand over a portion of their
interest payments to investors with defaulted securities, in
exchange for dropping their claims.  Katrina Allen, a spokeswoman for Gramercy with ASC Advisors
LLC, declined to comment on the talks.  Officials at Elliott haven’t been approached with a plan
from holders of restructured bonds or the Argentine government,
the firm said.  Court Ruling  Norma Madeo, a spokeswoman at the Argentine  Finance
Ministry , didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment on efforts to
resolve the conflict between creditors.  A U.S. Appeals Court said on Aug. 23 that Argentina can’t
make payments on restructured bonds that were issued in its 2005
and 2010 debt restructurings unless it pays holdouts led by
Elliott in full. The effect of the ruling is being delayed until
the  Supreme Court  decides whether to hear the case.  The legal battle has spurred concern Argentina would opt to
default on its overseas bonds for a second time since 2001
rather than settle with holdouts that President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has dubbed “vultures.”  Argentina’s benchmark overseas dollar bonds due 2033 rose
0.5 cent to 76.9 cents on the dollar at 4:50 p.m. in  New York .  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine
government notes instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 836 basis points, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  