-- Emerging Stocks Decline as Koruna Tumbles Most Since 1999
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-11-07T21:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/emerging-stocks-drop-amid-low-volatility-before-economic-reports.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped to the
lowest level in a month as OTP Bank Nyrt. dragged down Hungarian
shares. The Czech koruna tumbled the most on record as the
central bank approved the first currency sales in 11 years.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.6 percent to
1,010.19, dropping for a sixth day in the longest slide since
Aug. 22. The Budapest Stock Exchange Index retreated 1.7 percent
as OTP, Hungary’s largest lender, plunged after the central bank
urged the introduction of bankruptcy rules to protect household
borrowers. The koruna posted the worst performance among the 31
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Brazil’s Ibovespa dropped
to the lowest level in a month as Vale SA retreated.  Stocks joined a global slump in equities after a report
showing faster economic growth in the U.S. spurred concern the
 Federal Reserve  will scale back stimulus sooner than expected.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  warned the euro
area risks a “prolonged period” of low inflation as the bank
cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record.  “We’ve had a push out of tapering which gave EM stocks
some breathing room, but we’re still concerned about growth
headwinds for 2014,” Michelle Gibley, director of international
research at San Francisco-based Charles Schwab Corp., said by
phone. The firm manages $2.15 trillion in client assets.  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped
today, led by utility and commodity shares. The broad measure
trades at 10.5 times projected earnings, compared with the
 valuation  of 14.2 for the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund declined 1.8 percent to $41.25. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
advanced 5.7 percent to 24.79.  Emerging-market economies grew last month at the quickest
pace since March as global demand for manufacturing and services
improved, HSBC Holdings Plc said, citing a survey of  purchasing
managers . The HSBC Emerging Markets Index, which is compiled by
London-based Markit Economics and tracks conditions at more than
5,000 companies, rose to 51.7 in October. A value of more than
50 indicates expansion.  “With tapering fears in abeyance for now and  Europe  out of
recession, capital flows and external demand should support
emerging  market sentiment  and performance through the year
end,” said  Simon Williams , the Dubai-based chief  Middle East 
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc., in the report. “The continued
gains in China data are particularly encouraging, substantiating
our view that fresh stimulus has helped growth find a floor.”  Vale Tumbles  Brazil’s Ibovespa fell for a third day as  Telefonica Brasil
SA (VIVT4)  led Brazilian phone companies lower after reporting quarterly
earnings that trailed analysts’ forecasts. Vale, the largest
iron-ore producer, retreated 3.3 percent.  The Micex Index posted the biggest increase since Oct. 18
in Moscow. OAO Severstal added 3.5 percent, the largest advance
on the benchmark gauge, after UBS AG added the steelmaker to its
most-preferred stock list.  The Budapest Stock Exchange Index slid the most since Aug.
27 as OTP tumbled 4.7 percent. The Czech koruna tumbled after
the Ceska Narodni Banka today started selling the currency for
the first time in more than a decade to keep it “near” 27 per
euro and push inflation back toward its target.  China’s stocks  sank to a one-week low, led by technology
and health-care companies, as money rates climbed before the
start of a Communist Party meeting at the end of the week.
Guangzhou Baiyunshan Pharmaceuticals Holdings Co. plunged to the
lowest level in seven months to pace losses for drugmakers.
Software maker Neusoft Corp. declined 2.9 percent.  Infosys Climbs  India ’s S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  fell for a third day, erasing the
biggest gain in more than a week.  State Bank of India  dropped
3.2 percent, leading a gauge of banking shares down the most in
three weeks.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  climbed to the highest level since
January 2011 as technology companies increased.  Indonesia’s rupiah and 10-year  government bonds  advanced
for the first time in eight days after the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves rose for a third month.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 328 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  