-- Men’s Wearhouse Urged by Eminence to Consider Bid
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-11-08T14:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/men-s-wearhouse-urged-by-eminence-to-consider-bid.html
Men’s Wearhouse Inc. (MW)  was urged by
Eminence Capital LLC, which disclosed that it had become the
retailer’s largest investor, to engage in takeover talks with
 Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc. (JOSB) , whose bid it spurned last month.  Eminence, a New York-based hedge fund, said in a letter to
the Men’s Wearhouse board yesterday that while it agreed that
Jos. A. Bank’s offer price was too low, the company’s other
reasons for rejecting the bid were “disingenuous at best and
reckless and misinformed at worst.” The fund said in a filing
that it had taken a 9.8 percent stake in Men’s Wearhouse.  Eminence’s involvement in the takeover dispute, which was
reported earlier by CNBC, increased speculation that a deal
between the two menswear retailers may happen, boosting Men’s
Wearhouse’s shares yesterday. Houston-based Men’s Wearhouse
rejected Jos. A. Bank’s $2.3 billion offer the day it was made
public and said its prospects are better as a standalone
company.  Men’s Wearhouse advanced 1 percent to $45.88 at 9:44 a.m.
in  New York . The shares gained 46 percent this year through
yesterday. Hampstead, Maryland-based Jos. A. Bank increased 0.3
percent to $48.45.  Ken Dennard, a spokesman for Men’s Wearhouse who works for
Dennard-Lascar Associates LLC, didn’t respond to a voicemail
seeking comment on the filing. Tom Davies, a spokesman for Jos.
A. Bank who works for Kekst & Co., declined to comment on the
filing.  Board Accountability  Eminence said there should be a price Jos. A. Bank would be
willing to pay that would fairly compensate Men’s Wearhouse’s
shareholders. The fund also said it would exercise its right as
a shareholder to hold Men’s Wearhouse’s board accountable if it
fails to engage in talks with Jos. A. Bank and instruct
financial advisers to evaluate other options by Nov. 11.  Jos. A. Bank’s bid came at a moment of turmoil for Men’s
Wearhouse, which cut its profit forecast in September and
removed founder George Zimmer as executive chairman over
strategy disagreements in June. Jos. A. Bank Chairman Robert Wildrick said in a letter he would terminate the bid if Men’s
Wearhouse doesn’t engage in discussions.  Men’s Wearhouse last month adopted a shareholder rights
plan after rejecting the offer. The plan, which expires Sept.
30, 2014, allows investors to acquire Men’s Wearhouse stock at a
discounted price when someone acquires 10 percent or more of the
company’s common shares in a transaction not approved by the
board. If the buyer is a passive institutional investor, the
trigger is a 15 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  