-- Energy Transfer to Covert Texas Gas Pipe to Carry Crude
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-11-07T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/energy-transfer-to-covert-texas-gas-pipe-to-carry-crude.html
Energy Transfer Partners LP (ETP)  plans to
convert a natural  gas pipeline  to carry crude and condensate
from the Eagle Ford shale formation in southern  Texas  to Corpus
Christi on the  Gulf Coast .  Trafigura Beheer BV signed an agreement for space on the
82-mile-long, 100,000 barrel-a-day pipeline, the companies said
in a joint statement. The line is expected to be operational in
nine to 12 months.  Trafigura is building a second deepwater dock at its
complex at the Port of Corpus Christi, which would allow the
company to berth three medium-range tankers and two barges at
the same time.  “This pipeline, combined with our deep-water terminal,
enables Trafigura to offer a complete solution to producers who
seek to take Eagle Ford to the broader market,” Jeff Kopp, the
commodities trader’s director of oil for North America, said in
a statement.  Oil production in the Eagle Ford play skyrocketed to more
than 664,000 barrels a day in August from about 11,000 in August
2010, according to data from the Texas Railroad Commission.  The Port of  Corpus Christi , to which much of the Eagle Ford
crude is already shipped by pipeline, moved out 367,535 barrels
of oil a day in August, up 91 percent from the same month in
2012.  The  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port , the U.S.’s largest
waterborne petroleum import terminal, received 139,953 barrels
of oil a day from Texas in July, according to the state Natural
Resources Department. LOOP received its first tanker of domestic
crude in August 2012 after making modifications to one of its
three offshore buoys to allow receipts from smaller domestic
vessels, such as those carrying Eagle Ford crude.  Producers using directional drilling and hydraulic
fracturing have boosted the yield in shale formations such as
the Eagle Ford and the Bakken in  North Dakota , leading a surge
in U.S. oil production. Output rose to 7.9 million barrels a day
the week of Oct. 18, the most since March 1989, Energy
Information Administration data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  