-- Merkel’s Scope to Boost Spending Narrows as Revenue Growth Slows
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-11-07T14:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/merkel-s-scope-to-boost-spending-narrows-as-revenue-growth-slows.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
bloc seized on forecasts that tax-revenue growth slowed, saying
the scope to indulge her would-be coalition partner’s calls to
boost government spending has lessened.  Germany ’s projected tax revenue through 2017 may increase
by 13.9 billion euros ($18.5 billion) more than forecast in May,
a government-appointed panel of forecasters said today in its
twice-yearly review. That’s less than 0.5 percent of the total
for the five-year period.  The findings show that Merkel and Social Democratic Party
officials now negotiating a coalition for the next four years
have “very little leeway to finance new measures,” Norbert Barthle, the budget spokesman for Merkel’s Christian Democratic
Union, said in an e-mailed statement. Coalition negotiators
instead need to focus on “priority decisions,” he said.  The forecasts provide Merkel with evidence to counter some
of the demands made by the SPD in the negotiations that followed
her Sept. 22 election victory. The cost of implementing all the
main coalition proposals would be 52 billion euros, led by SPD
demands for a minimum pension that would cost at least 10
billion euros, Die  Welt  newspaper reported today, citing its own
calculations.  The German government has tied revenue projections to a
mid-term plan to balance annual budgets, meaning that tax
forecasts are closely watched as a gauge of potential financing
that would allow an increase in spending.  Infrastructure Programs  Merkel refuses to agree to SPD calls to raise tax on higher
incomes to fund infrastructure programs while supplying enough
revenue to honor deficit goals. She told coalition negotiators
on Nov. 5 that their spending proposals could quickly wreck
Germany’s healthy budget, Die Welt reported.  Federal tax revenue this year will add up to 260 billion
euros, or 0.5 percent more than expected in May, the panel said.
Next year, the expected returns will be 269 billion euros even
though the pace of economic growth is expected to accelerate to
1.7 percent from 0.5 percent in 2013.  The federal government, which is one of three levels of
public finances, will need to “stay on a strict budgetary
diet” if it is to fulfil its legal commitment not to take out
new debt from 2015, Barthle said.  The government’s tax panel comprises economists from the
Finance Ministry, the Bundesbank and independent research
institutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  