-- Tesla Falls After Third Model S Car Fire: Mover
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-11-07T16:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/tesla-falls-after-third-model-s-car-fire-mover.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car
maker led by  Elon Musk , plunged after a Model S sedan fire
yesterday in Tennessee, the third in five weeks involving the
car. The accident happened after the driver hit a metal object,
local authorities said.  The shares slid 8.5 percent to $138.37 at 11:24 a.m.  New
York  time after declining as much as 8.7 percent to $138, the
lowest intraday price since Aug. 15. It was the second-consecutive slide for the company. Tesla dropped 15 percent
yesterday after reporting third-quarter earnings on Nov 5.  “We have been in contact with the driver, who was not
injured and believes the car saved his life,” Liz Jarvis-Shean,
a spokeswoman for the  Palo Alto , California-based company, said
in an e-mail. “Our team is on its way to  Tennessee  to learn
more about what happened in the accident. We will provide more
information when we’re able to do so.”  The accident occurred near Murfreesboro, Tennessee, at
about 1:35 p.m. local time yesterday on Interstate 24,  Dalya
Qualls , a Tennessee Highway Patrol spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The driver, identified as Juris Shibayama, struck a tow
hitch that was in the middle of a lane, which damaged the car’s
undercarriage and caused the fire, Qualls said. Shibayama was
able to pull the car over to the side and was uninjured, Qualls
said.  The Tennessee fire was first reported on the ValueWalk
website, which cited photos of the car fire posted on the  Tesla
Motors Club  forum website.  Previous Fires  Even after the past two days of declines, Tesla shares have
surged more than fourfold this year after the electric-car maker
reported its first quarterly profits. With the increase,
investors gave the company a valuation of more than 200 times
estimated earnings.  Two earlier Model S fires, in Washington state Oct. 1 and
in  Mexico  in mid-October, occurred the same month Tesla shares
dropped 17 percent, its first monthly decline since February the
biggest since December 2010.  Tesla dropped 10 percent over two days following the
Washington crash report. The  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration  said Oct. 24 it found no evidence the Oct. 1
Model S fire resulted from defects or violations of U.S. safety
standards. The agency said it was aware of the Mexico incident
and will continue to monitor the performance of Tesla vehicles.  Nathan Naylor, a spokesman for the U.S. National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration, had no immediate comment on the
latest accident.  Yesterday’s 15 percent share decline was the most in more
than 21 months. On Nov. 5, Tesla reported third-quarter Model S
sales that missed some estimates and projected little-changed
fourth-quarter earnings.  Model S deliveries totaled about 5,500 for the quarter, the
Palo Alto, California-based company said in a statement. Some
analysts had estimated more than 5,800.  Excluding some items, Tesla earned 12 cents a share in the
third quarter. The company said it expected an adjusted fourth-quarter profit “about consistent” with the third quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  