-- Tesla’s Third Model S Fire Brings Call for U.S. Inquiry
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-11-08T00:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/tesla-s-third-model-s-fire-brings-call-for-u-s-inquiry.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s third fire in
five weeks involving a Model S suggests U.S. regulators need to
examine the luxury electric car, a safety advocate said after a
Tennessee accident.  Shares of the  Palo Alto , California-based carmaker led by
Elon Musk slid 7.5 percent to $139.77 at the close yesterday in
 New York  after reports of the newest fire. That decline follows
a 15 percent drop Nov. 6 after the carmaker’s third-quarter
results and fourth-quarter outlook disappointed investors. It
was the biggest two-day plunge since Dec. 27, 2010.  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
“absolutely has to investigate” the Nov. 6 Tennessee incident,
 Clarence Ditlow , executive director of the Center for Auto
Safety, based in  Washington , said in a phone interview.  A Model S driver struck a tow hitch in the middle of a lane
on Interstate 24 near Murfreesboro, Tennessee, damaging the
car’s undercarriage and causing the fire, Dalya Qualls, a
Tennessee Highway Patrol spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The
driver pulled the car over and was uninjured, Qualls said.  NHTSA declined to investigate a Model S fire in Washington
state in October, the first such reported blaze, in which metal
debris was involved.  “It appears there’s inadequate shielding on the bottom of
these vehicles,” Ditlow said. “Road debris is a known hazard
to the undercarriage of vehicles.”  The U.S. agency “will contact the local authorities who
are looking into the incident to determine if there are vehicle
safety implications that merit agency action,” Karen Aldana, a
spokeswoman for NHTSA, said in an e-mail.  Tesla Team  Liz Jarvis-Shean, a Tesla spokeswoman, declined to comment
on Ditlow’s remarks and on whether the company needed to
strengthen the aluminum casing that houses the 1,000-pound (454-kilogram) lithium-ion battery that powers the Model S.  “We have been in contact with the driver, who was not
injured and believes the car saved his life,” Jarvis-Shean said
in an earlier e-mail. “Our team is on its way to  Tennessee  to
learn more about what happened in the accident. We will provide
more information when we’re able to do so.”  Tesla, the best-performing automotive stock this year, has
been under scrutiny as Chief Executive Officer Musk works to
create the world’s biggest and most profitable seller of
electric cars. Even with this week’s declines, Tesla shares have
surged more than fourfold this year after reporting its first
quarterly profits.  ‘Rocket Science’  The Washington state Model S fire took place Oct. 1, and
another occurred in  Mexico  in mid-October. NHTSA said Oct. 24 it
found no evidence the first fire resulted from defects or
violations of U.S. safety standards. The agency has said it
doesn’t investigate vehicle accidents outside the U.S.  A possible fix for the Model S, priced from $70,000 to more
than $100,000, “is not rocket science,” Ditlow said.
“Probably the simplest task Tesla has is putting a strong steel
shield on the bottom of the car.”  The Model S has “a six-millimeter thick armor plate on the
bottom,” Musk told Bloomberg Television last month.  A U.S. investigation or recall of the Model S “could raise
near-term concerns to a higher level in terms of cost, image and
production disruption to Tesla,” Adam Jonas, an analyst for
Morgan Stanley, said in a research report yesterday.  “We would be very surprised if Tesla has not already
launched its own investigation into the cause of battery
compartment intrusion to explore causes and potential
remedies,” said Jonas, who rates the stock overweight. A
voluntary recall “would be consistent with Tesla’s
extraordinary efforts to build brand value and trust.”  Battery Issues  Lithium-ion batteries have come into widespread use in
 laptop computers , consumer electronics, rechargeable cars and
hybrids, and even aircraft, owing to their lighter weight and
high energy density.  Tesla isn’t the first company to experience battery pack-related fires. The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  ordered
the grounding of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner aircraft this year
after meltdowns of lithium-ion batteries.  NHTSA formally investigated fires in two other battery-powered vehicles,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Volt and Fisker
Automotive Inc.’s Karma.  GM conducted a voluntary program to strengthen the Volt’s
battery pack. Fisker, which stopped making plug-in Karmas more
than a year ago, issued recalls to fix flawed lithium-ion packs
at risk of shutting down and for a separate wiring issue linked
to a fire.  Tesla’s Image  Multiple reports of battery fires may harm Tesla’s image,
said Karl Brauer, an industry analyst for Kelley  Blue Book  in
 Irvine ,  California .  “At some point the cause of the fire, the safety of the
drivers and even the attitude of the owners -- all three
apparently want another car -- stops mattering because you’re
left with recurring headlines featuring the words ‘Tesla’ and
‘fire,’” Brauer said.  “For a company with a stock price based as much or more on
image than financials, those recurring headlines are highly
damaging,” he said.  Musk’s net worth has more than tripled this year to $7.4
billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Share
declines yesterday for both Tesla and SolarCity Corp., another
Musk-affiliated company, cut his wealth by $576.8 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Musk is Tesla’s  largest shareholder . Daimler AG and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  are also investors in the company.  The Tennessee Model S fire was first reported on the
ValueWalk website, which cited photos of the car fire posted on
the Tesla Motors Club forum website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  