-- European Central Bank President Draghi News Conference (Text)
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-11-07T16:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/european-central-bank-president-draghi-news-conference-text-.html
Following is a transcript of European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s comments from his monthly
news conference in  Frankfurt  today.  MARIO DRAGHI, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK:  Ladies and
gentlemen, I am very pleased to welcome you to our press
conference.  I will now report on the outcome of today’s meeting
of the Governing Council, during which we took a number of
decisions on key ECB interest rates, forward guidance, and
liquidity provision.  First, based on our regular economic and monetary analyses,
we decided to lower the interest rate on the main refinancing
operations of the Eurosystem by 25 basis points to 0.25 percent
and the rate on the marginal lending facility by 25 basis points
to 0.75 percent.  The rate on the deposit facility will remain
unchanged at 0.00 percent.  These decisions are in line with our forward guidance of
July 2013, given the latest indications of further diminishing
underlying price pressures in the euro area over the medium
term, starting from currently low annual inflation rates of
below 1 percent.  In keeping with this picture, monetary and, in particular,
credit dynamics remain subdued.  At the same time, inflation
expectations for the euro area over the medium to long term
continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2 percent.
Such a constellation suggests that we may experience a prolonged
period of low inflation, to be followed by a gradual upward
movement towards inflation rates below, but close to, 2 percent
later on.  Accordingly, our monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative for as long as necessary.  It will thereby also
continue to assist the gradual economic recovery, as reflected
in confidence indicators up to October.  Second, following today’s rate cut, the Governing Council
reviewed the forward guidance provided in July and confirmed
that it continues to expect the key ECB interest rates to remain
at present or lower levels for an extended period of time.  This
expectation continues to be based on an overall subdued outlook
for inflation extending into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness of the economy and subdued monetary dynamics.  Third, we continue to monitor closely money market
conditions and their potential impact on our monetary policy
stance.  We are ready to consider all available instruments,
and, in this context, we decided today to continue conducting
the main refinancing operations as fixed rate tender procedures
with full allotment for as long as necessary, and at least until
the end of the 6th maintenance period of 2015, more precisely on
July 7, 2015.  This procedure will also remain in use for the Eurosystem’s
special-term refinancing operations with a maturity of one
maintenance period, which will continue to be conducted for as
long as needed, and at least until the end of the second quarter
of 2015.  The fixed rate in these special-term refinancing
operations will be the same as the MRO rate prevailing at the
time.  Furthermore, we decided to conduct the three-month longer-term refinancing operations, the LTROs, to be allotted until the
end of the second quarter of 2015 as fixed-rate tender
procedures with full allotment.  The rates in these three-month
operations will be fixed at the average rate of the MROs over
the life of the respective LTRO.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with the economic analysis.  Real GDP in the euro area
rose by 0.3 percent, quarter on quarter, in the second quarter
of 2013, following six quarters of falling output.  Developments
in survey-based confidence indicators up to October are
consistent with continued, albeit modest, growth in the second
half of the year.  Looking ahead, output is expected to continue to recover at
a slow pace, in particular owing to a gradual improvement in
domestic demand supported by the accommodative monetary policy
stance.  Euro area economic activity should, in addition,
benefit from a gradual strengthening of demand for exports.
Furthermore, the overall improvement in financial markets seen
since last year appear to be gradually working their way through
to the real economy, as should the progress made in fiscal
consolidation.  In addition, real incomes have benefited recently from
generally lower energy price inflation.  This being said,
unemployment in the euro area remains high, and the necessary
balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will
continue to weigh on economic activity.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area continue to be on the downside.  Developments in global
money and financial market conditions and related uncertainties
may have the potential to negatively affect economic conditions.
 Other downside risks include higher commodity prices, weaker
than expected domestic demand and export growth, and -- and slow
or insufficient implementation of structural reforms in euro
area countries.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual
HICP inflation decreased in October 2013 to 0.7 percent, from
1.1 percent in September.  This decline was stronger than
expected and reflected, in particular, lower food price
inflation, a larger fall in energy prices, and some weakening in
services price inflation.  On the basis of current futures prices for energy, annual
inflation rates are expected to remain at low levels for the
coming months.  Underlying price pressures in the euro area are
expected to remain subdued over the medium term.  At the same
time, inflation expectations for the euro area over the medium
to long term continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim
of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2 percent.
Such a constellation suggests that we may experience a prolonged
period of low inflation to be followed by a gradual upward
movement towards inflation rates below but close to 2 percent.  Taking into account today’s decisions, the risks to --
taking into account today’s decisions, the risks to the outlook
for price developments are broadly balanced over the medium
term.  Upside risks relate in particular to higher commodity
prices, as well as stronger than expected increases in
administered prices and indirect taxes, and downside risks stem
from weaker than expected economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, data for September
confirm the subdued underlying growth of broad money, M3, and,
in particular, credit.  Annual growth in M3 moderated to 2.1
percent in September, from 2.3 percent in August.  Annual growth
in M1 remained strong at 6.6 percent, reflecting a preference
for liquidity, although it was below the peak of 8.7 percent
observed in April.  Net capital inflows into the euro area
continued to be the main factor supporting annual M3 growth,
while the annual rate of change of loans to the private sector
remained weak.  The annual growth rate of loans to households stood at 0.3
percent in September, broadly unchanged since the turn of the
year.  The annual rate of change of loans to non-financial
corporations was minus 2.7 percent in September, compared with
minus 2.9 percent in August.  Overall, weak loan dynamics for
non-financial corporations continue to reflect primarily their
lagged relationship with the business cycle, credit risk, and
the ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector
balance sheets.  At the same time, the October 2013 bank lending
survey tentatively signals a stabilization in credit conditions
for firms and households, in the context of still weak loan
demand.  Since the summer of 2012, substantial progress has been
made in improving the funding situation of banks.  In order to
ensure an adequate transmission of monetary policy to the
financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential
that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets declines
further and that the resilience of banks is strengthened where
needed.  The ECB’s comprehensive assessment before it adopts its
supervisory role under the single supervisory mechanism will
further support this confidence-building process.  It will
enhance the quality of information available on the condition of
banks and result in the identification and implementation of
necessary corrective action.  Further decisive steps to
establish a banking union will help to restore confidence in the
financial system.  To sum up, taking into account today’s decisions, the
economic analysis indicates that we may experience a prolonged
period of low inflation, to be followed by a gradual upward
movement towards inflation rates below, but close to, 2 percent
later on.  A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  As regards fiscal policies, the euro area  budget deficit  is
projected to decline further from 3.1 percent of GDP in 2013 to
2.5 percent in 2014, according to the European Commission’s
autumn 2013 economic forecast.  At the same time, the euro area
government debt ratio is expected to rise from 95.5 percent of
GDP in 2013 to 95.9 percent in 2014.  In order to put high public debt ratios on a downward path,
governments should not unravel their efforts to reduce deficits
and sustain fiscal adjustment over the medium term.  The
composition of fiscal consolidation should be geared towards
growth-friendly measures which have a medium-term perspective
and combine improving the quality and efficiency of public
services with minimizing distortionary effects of taxation.
Governments must also decisively strengthen efforts to implement
the needed structural reforms in product and labor markets.  Progress has been made in reducing current account deficits
and unit labor cost differentials, but substantial efforts still
need to be undertaken with a view to further improving
competitiveness, supporting rebalancing within the euro area and
creating more flexible and dynamic economies that in turn
generate sustainable economic growth and employment.  We are now at your disposal for questions.  STAFF:  Stefan Riecher,  Bloomberg News ?  QUESTION:  Good afternoon -- do you hear me?  Yeah.  Good
afternoon, Mr. President.  First question, a prolonged period of
time of low inflation.  Is there any chance you could elaborate
a bit more in detail on what prolonged means?  And does it mean
there’s going to be low inflation from more than a year or not?  DRAGHI:  I’m sorry.  I was looking for you.  Where are you?
 OK, that’s -- all right, yes, please.  QUESTION:  I apologize.  I should have stood up.  DRAGHI:  No, that’s OK.  QUESTION:  You want me to start again?  DRAGHI:  Yes, please.  QUESTION:  Or -- OK, sorry.  First question on the
prolonged period of time in which we’re going to see low
inflation.  Is there any chance you could elaborate on bit on
for how long we’re going to see low inflation?  And do you feel
that inflation may drop even lower than it is already, meaning
there’s a high chance of deflation to come up?  And second question.  What options do you have in place to
fight inflation if it drops even lower than it is already,
considering that the main refinancing rate is at 0.25 now and
you’ve only one traditional rate to cut left.  Thank you.  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  On the first question, I think you
will have a fuller presentation with -- in December with our
macroeconomic projections.  We expect from our updates, given
the latest figures on inflation, that it will extend for some
period of time, as we said, extended and prolonged.  And we will
be clearer on the length of time of this period in December.
But certainly it’s not going to be a short -- short time.  On the second question, we don’t -- I’ve answered this
question, actually, on other occasions.  If we mean by deflation
a self-fulfilling -- a self-fulfilling fall in prices across a
very large category of goods and across a very significant
number of countries, we don’t see that.  We have certainly one
country where the fall in prices is more marked than in others,
but we have to be careful there at separating the various
effects.  Some of it is actually -- is actually welcome, in a sense,
because it shows that there is certain relative price
adjustments, certain rebalancing across countries.  Some of it
certainly reflects prices -- and I would say more about that --
prices in various commodities, energy and other commodities, but
by and large we don’t see deflation.  What we see is a protracted period, broadly based and
protracted period of low inflation.  And low inflation -- you
remember that the objective of the ECB is to have an inflation
rate which is below, but close to 2 percent.  And there are many
reasons why this was chosen as the objective of the ECB in many
years ago.  I think it was, what, 12 years ago, in 2001?  (UNKNOWN):  2003.  DRAGHI:  2003.  (UNKNOWN):  May.  DRAGHI:  May 2003.  So -- and we can go through this in the
oncoming questions if you are interested.  STAFF:  Eva Taylor, Reuters.  QUESTION:  Mr. President, could you give us a little bit of
an explanation of why you decided to have an asymmetric corridor
now and whether you discussed cutting the deposit rate into
negative territory?  And my second question is, the LTRO was on
the agenda of today’s meeting.  Could you give us a flavor of
what the debate on the subject was like?  Thank you.  DRAGHI:  So in the -- the first question, I would say that
in the context -- you have to remember that we are in a context
of fixed-rate full allotment in all our ECB refinancing
operations, so the EONIA fluctuates between the deposit rate and
the main refinancing rate, the MRO rate.  So the fluctuation
range of EONIA is unaffected by the level of the marginal
lending rate.  But we wanted to preserve incentive for banks to pursue an
active management of their liquidity positions between the two
weekly main refinancing operations.  So we left the distance
between the marginal lending facility rate and the main
refinancing rate unchanged.  And this explains why we now have a
corridor which is asymmetric.  We discussed -- certainly, as part of the discussion, we
also discussed the deposit facility rate and, as I said on other
occasions, we are technically ready, and it’s part of our
artillery.  And in a sense, it also answers the previous
question, what are we going to do if we see this low rate of
inflation?  We don’t see it and we don’t think this is going to
happen because we see expectations of inflation firmly anchored
at 2 percent or less than 2 percent.  So -- but we want to have some instruments in our
artillery, and that is one, and certainly the other one is what
you mentioned, the LTRO.  Actually, we didn’t discuss this at
any -- with any significance today, but it’s a -- there is a
whole range of instruments that we can mobilitate, activate if
needed.  QUESTION:  Yes, good afternoon.  The -- cutting the
interest rates will not particularly help the tightening of
liquidity conditions and the scarcity of credit.  One of your
colleagues mentioned the possibility of stop sterilizing the SMP
purchase of bonds and to reduce the minimum reserve.  Did you
discuss this?  Or is this on the table among the instruments
that you mentioned?  And about the scarcity of credit, are you worried that the
comprehensive assessment that you’re now conducting could
contribute to bank deleveraging and so to the lack of credit to
the real economy?  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  So the first question is whether we --
first of all, we believe that this decrease in  interest rate  is
effective, of course, and we are seeing market reactions to this
extent.  There are also some more technical reasons why this is
effective.  Clearly, it reduces the volatility of EONIA, because
it restricts the corridor.  And so, in terms of liquidity, let’s not forget that we
still are outstanding 730 billion of MRO and LTRO outstanding.
Also, we shouldn’t forget that many contracts, many contracts
are indexed to money market rates.  And so all in all, I think
this decision -- these decisions today to support lending to
firms and households.  Let’s not also forget it will support the
recovery through lower real interest rates.  So there are
various, various reasons to believe that both today’s decisions
and our forward guidance have been effective.  Now, on the excess liquidity, I know there is a whole drama
about this, but, again, I’ve warned you several times not to
think in terms of a precise mechanical relation between the
excess liquidity size, the size of -- the excess liquidity, and
the EONIA.  Let me give you a very interesting piece of evidence.  In
March 2012, the excess liquidity was 800 billion.  And now it’s
185 and has been hardly an upward movement in EONIA, if you
compare the two data.  So there isn’t a mechanical or stable
relation, and there isn’t any threshold value, and we certainly
closely monitor this.  And I’ve said this many times.  We don’t want to have undue tightening.  But we should
remember that the excess liquidity is determined by several
factors, one of which, the most important, is the degree of
fragmentation.  And that has been changing.  In fact, some would
say that the reduction in the excess liquidity is primarily
determined by the diminishing, the decrease in fragmentation.  So I think that’s what I feel like saying.  Thank you.  Oh, yes, yes, yes.  You also asked about the comprehensive
assessment, whether this would cause deleveraging.  We don’t
think so.  We don’t think so.  We want banks that certainly do
the right deleveraging of NPLs and other non-performing assets,
but I don’t think this comes as an unexpected market.  It was
already active in asking for it.  And if -- the comprehensive
assessment will shed light on the banks’ balance sheets.  And
that’s what the private sector wants in order to be convinced to
put money into this industry.  That’s where the credibility of -- that’s why the
credibility of the comprehensive assessment is so important.  In
the end, when all is said and done, that’s the ultimate
objective, namely to have the private sector investing in the
banking sector.  And I think that’s the main primary objective.  Of course, we want to reach many other objectives with the
comprehensive assessment, but the idea of coming out with banks
that in order to become stronger and healthier have to be more
transparent is really underlying the whole process.  Thank you.  STAFF:  Claudia (inaudible)  QUESTION:  Good afternoon.  Why is the prolonged period of
low inflation representing a risk if expectations are still so
well anchored?  DRAGHI:  Yeah.  Well, why -- why -- why our, may I say,
founding fathers actually wanted to have something below but
close to 2 percent, well, there -- there were three reasons.
First of all, they very wisely thought about possible
measurement errors in the HICP data, and so they wanted to keep
a significant cushion between the price behavior and deflation.
In other words, you may well have a situation where you think
that -- where you think you are at, say, 1 percent inflation and
instead it turns out that you are at minus 2 percent.  And it’s
happened -- fortunately, in other parts of the world, but it’s
happened before.  The second reason is that -- and this is very relevant now
-- is that the -- they thought about the adjustment within the
euro area, their rebalancing of different country members in the
euro area.  They knew that these countries are very different.
And so the possibility of having imbalances was always being
looked at and thought.  Now, in order to rebalance these -- this equilibria,
countries have to go through a relative price adjustment, in
other words, through, I would say, a readjustment of their
prices in order -- since they don’t have the  exchange rate , they
have to readjust their prices.  Now, this readjustment is much harder and difficult if you
have zero inflation than it would be if you have two.  And that
was the second reason.  The third reason is that, as we have
discovered in many countries, in many other jurisdictions, the
effectiveness of monetary policy is reduced -- certainly, the
effectiveness of standard measures of monetary policy is greatly
reduced as you reach the lower bound of inflation, as you go
down to zero.  Finally, there is a third -- a fourth reason why you want a
2 percent inflation, especially in the current stage of a
recovery, which is still -- it’s proceeding.  It’s proceeding,
but it’s still relatively weak.  It’s uneven.  As I’ve said many
times, it’s fragile, and, most importantly, starts from low
levels, so the  unemployment rate  is still very high,
incidentally.  It looks like -- it looks like it’s stabilizing,
but it’s stabilizing at the top.  So it’s very important at this point in time to have lower
real interest rates.  I think that’s why it’s important to have
an inflation rate which is close, below 2 percent.  STAFF:  CNBC?  QUESTION:  Yeah, Geoff Cutmore, CNBC.  Thanks very much for
letting me have the question.  What seems to be astonishing
about today’s announcement is how unprepared the market
generally was for it.  And I’ve seen various comments that it
was a shock announcement, that it was very aggressive, and it’s
clearly taken the market by surprise when you look at the
reaction in euro-dollar and some of the equity markets.  So my question really is about the communications strategy
currently that you’re pursuing and the fact that you decided to
make this announcement today.  And I ask you if you could put
some texture on this.  Do you think that the markets have become
overly complacent and doubted the credibility of your will to
act?  You can clearly see in euro-dollar that people seem to
have taken it for granted that there wouldn’t have been a cut
now or possibly even in December.  And I saw one market commentator describe you as having a
peashooter to deal with the deflationary tanks that were
approaching you.  Well, it seems to me that you’ve pulled out a
bazooka or possibly even an antitank weapon today.  Could you
put some texture on the communications strategy for us?  DRAGHI:  Yeah, I -- in doing so, I think I will abstain
about judging markets.  This is one of the hardest things, and
it’s usually useless, because they go and do what they want, so
-- no matter what.  So but I -- I will actually urge all of you to read the
introductory statement that I read at the last press conference.
 And it does say -- it says the Governing Council confirms that
it expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present or
lower levels for an extended period of time.  Then it says, this
expectation continues to be based on an unchanged overall
subdued outlook for inflation, extending into the medium term,
given the broad-based weakness in the economy and subdued
monetary dynamics.  Now, in unchanged, it has changed.  Since then, it has
changed.  And it has changed in a variety of ways.  First of
all, it’s now -- as I was saying before, broadly based over a
certain -- certain category of goods.  We see that it’s now
based on services, energy, processed food, in general, non-energy industrial goods, unprocessed foods.  So it’s fairly
broad-based.  It’s also changed in the sense that if you look at the
annualized -- if I can find them, I’ll even give you the
numbers, but -- the annualized figures for inflation -- the
quarterly annualized figures for inflation, they do actually go
down in September and October.  So that’s the other -- that’s a
big change.  So, basically, we observed what’s happened, and that’s
exactly what our forward guidance was saying.  So if it were to
change, we do change, in the sense -- I have to remark that the
credibility of our forward guidance comes out strengthened out
of this decision today.  Thank you.  STAFF:  Jean Philippe Lecou (ph) (inaudible)  DRAGHI:  I’m trying to find (OFF-MIKE) OK, I’m sorry.  Go
ahead, yes.  Please.  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE) microphone functions.  Yes.  The
question out of colleague for -- was more focused on the
communications strategy.  Maybe you ate my words.  If you say
that today within the Governing Council the question was not so
much if to act but when to act, and so you decided to act very -
- in a reflex way today.  The motive is more to create a kind of
surprise and to obtain a more better reaction (inaudible) yes,
reaction...  DRAGHI:  I see your point.  I see your point.  And, no,
that’s not the reason.  The reason why a significant majority of
the Governing Council members thought it was time to act was
exactly what I said before.  Last month, we said if the
protracted -- if this outlook of inflation, it says, is
unchanged, overall subdued outlook for inflation extending into
the medium term, that’s changed.  So since the last time I read
this statement, there have been changes.  And these changes have
been judged to be of significance, both category of goods-wise
and length -- time of length-wise.  And even -- so if we can -- we can go in further detail, of
course, into further detail about explaining this, but these two
things are important.  I’m sorry.  You had another question?  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE) because on the announcement today, it
is written that the rate cut will only enter into function on
the 13th of November and not now, immediately.  What is the
proposal on this?  DRAGHI:  Now I -- you are catching me unprepared on this.
And...  (UNKNOWN):  (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI:  Please, please.  (UNKNOWN):  No, that’s the date of the next operation, main
refinancing operation.  So it’s coming.  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  STAFF:  Suzanne Lynch, Irish Times.  QUESTION:  Good afternoon.  I just have a question as
regards Ireland.  It’s preparing to become the first eurozone
country to finish a bailout program.  The Irish government has
said that it may not seek a precautionary  credit line .
Commissioner Olli Rehn has said that it’s very possible also
that Ireland could exit without a precautionary credit line and
(inaudible) the commission would be prepared to back this if
Dublin decides to go alone.  Would the ECB be comfortable with
Ireland exiting its program without a precautionary credit line
of some kind?  And, secondly, do you think a decision has to be
made by December the 15th on this?  DRAGHI:  Well, first of all, I think the Irish government
has to be congratulated for the progress and overall the success
of its action over the last -- over the few -- over the last few
years.  The Irish program remained on track.  And progress was
there in many areas.  Certainly, more action is needed on
certain areas, especially the banking sector.  The decision on whether a program is needed is entirely in
the hands of the Irish government, so that’s up to them to ask
for the program.  The ECB, and in general the other
institutions, the IMF and the commission, would say that
certainly it would be useful to have a precautionary program in
place, but it’s also true that the success has been quite
significant.  So it’s up to the Irish authorities decide what
they want to do, and we certainly don’t want to interfere.  Thank you.  STAFF:  Gentleman from Irish Television?  QUESTION:  Sean Wheeland (ph) from Irish Television.  Mr.
Draghi, relating to the comprehensive assessment of the banks --
and you mentioned there’s more to be done on the Irish banking
situation -- on Tuesday, Olli Rehn said that you have an
incentive to avoid, as he put it, crap on your hands in terms of
these assessments, looking back at what happened in 2010 in
Ireland, in  Spain , and in  Germany .  Does this mean that you’re
inclined now in this forthcoming assessment to go harder on
those three countries’ banks and their regulators?  DRAGHI:  Why?  I mean, why is this?  I think both in -- in
all these countries, to a different degree, of course,
significant progress has taken place.  The rules of the AQR and
the stress tests are going to be the same for everybody.  We
don’t plan any difference across countries.  The -- let me give you, in a sense, the way that -- I mean,
the way in which one would describe a successful, comprehensive
assessment, especially a successful AQR.  What we need to put in
place is a strong routinary process, and that’s -- if we are
able to do that, we’ll be successful.  And a strong routinary
process doesn’t make differences, exceptions.  So I think that’s
the most important thing, and so we don’t foresee any exception
for that.  Thank you.  STAFF:  Jack Ewing, IHT.  QUESTION:  Thank you, Jack Ewing, International  New York 
Times.  Mr. Draghi, two questions.  First of all, you said that
fragmentation has gone down in the eurozone, but how much do you
think that this rate cut will help credit flow to some of the
countries that need it most?  Do you see it reducing
fragmentation further?  And if so, perhaps you can explain the
mechanism where that will happen.  And the second thing is, how much is the Governing Council
concerned about the level of the euro against the dollar?  And
did that play any role in the discussion today?  Thank you.  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  I can answer to the second question.
As I’ve said many times, the exchange rate is not a policy
target.  It’s important for  price stability  and growth.  And
certainly it didn’t play any role in today’s discussion.  And as
far as I can remember, it was not mentioned.  So that’s the
first answer.  But as I said, it remains important for price --
for our price objectives, our stability objectives, and for
growth.  On fragmentation, fragmentation has been steadily declining
from the July last year to about three, four months ago, all
indices, bank indices, both on -- mostly on the funding side,
but also TARGET2 and other indices would show that.  After that,
while we continue to observe improvements in market performance
across the board, both interest rates and volatility and all,
we’re actually observing that this improvement has stopped.  So fragmentation is basically a little better than it was
four months ago, but rather than observing dramatic improvements
by month by month, we are observing by and large a static
situation.  So we are also observing many favorable facts here.
For example, interbank lending from the non-stressed countries
to some stressed countries has improved, which is a major, major
piece of news.  So when we look at the overall areas and the aggregate
numbers, we have to say that now we are about the same situation
in which we were three months ago.  So I think this change in
interest rates now will certainly reduce the fragmentation, is
something that will help.  Banks that are not necessarily the --
also -- but healthy banks that are located in stressed parts of
the euro area to have an easier access to the  interbank market .
So in this sense, it is an instrument for reducing
fragmentation.  We are also confident that, as the overall economy
situation improves, fragmentation will also decrease, because
fragmentation -- let’s not forget -- was started with a very
high risk perception, both by the non-core -- by the core
countries towards distressed countries for a variety of reasons,
but also because of the very same banks in distressed countries
had vis-a-vis their -- the private sector working in those
countries.  And it had much to do with the recession.  So as we come out of that, and we see this, we see the
amount of -- for example, we see the amount of what we call the
three uncertainties, the political uncertainty, the economic
uncertainty, the financial uncertainty, we see that these three
categories broadly speaking in the euro area are going down, are
decreasing significantly.  So we would expect fragmentation, as
well, will also decrease.  Thank you.  STAFF:  (inaudible)  QUESTION:  Mr. Draghi, coming back to the issue of market
expectations, you mentioned that it’s your feeling that the
forward guidance has been strengthened by this decision.  On the
other hand, one could argue that markets were taken on the wrong
foot by today’s decision and you were not successful in guiding
expectations as regards your reaction function.  I mean, you
mention it quite often and almost any meeting you mention it,
but on the other hand, still the markets are not quite clear
about your reaction function apparently.  DRAGHI:  Well, I’m not sure, because the money market
structure (ph) has reacted very well.  And so I guess our
evidence is that actually our forward guidance has been
successful.  As soon as we issued the forward guidance, we see
that the post-May Governing Council decision, the curve
flattened and then -- of course, there are other facts that
influence money market rates.  We don’t live in an island or in
another planet.  At the same time, we had several announcements concerning,
as you might remember, the tapering or not tapering monetary
policy in -- in the largest -- in the largest financial center
in the world.  We had announcement also in other jurisdictions,
as well, and it would be unthinkable that these announcements
would not have produced any effect on our own money market
rates.  But by and large, as we’ve seen -- we’ve seen a kind of
mean reversion.  We’ve seen a return of money market rates to
levels that were admittedly higher than the ones that were
produced in the aftermath of the statement of forward guidance,
but certainly below the rates that these announcements had
produced.  So what we are -- what we are pretty sure is that the
forward guidance has been effective in reducing volatility of
the money market rates.  It’s also been effective in reducing
the sensitivity of money market rates to news that would not
warrant any change in fundamentals.  In other words, the
sensitivity of our money market rates to news coming from the
rest of the world, like the ones I’ve mentioned before, we’re
pretty sure of that.  And we’re also pretty sure that the
forward guidance has reduced the sensitivity to -- the excessive
sensitivity to news that have to do with our fundamentals.  So that is what we could say, but also I would say that we
also -- as I said many times -- we’re somewhat successful also
in controlling the level of interest rates, and of recent, the
term structures actually flattened.  Now, of course, it’s very,
very difficult to measure exactly all these effects because
there are many other things that are happening at the same time,
so you’re never sure whether you’re actually -- it’s your own
forward guidance that’s the determining factor or are other
factors.  Thank you.  STAFF:  Gentleman over here?  QUESTION:  (inaudible) from Digipress (ph), Japanese  news
agency .  Let me go back to the topic of deflation or lower
inflation.  Some experts are saying that now eurozone is facing
the risk of deflation, which is similar to  Japan ’s experience.
And of course, Japan has experienced prolonged period of
deflation.  And some experts are saying that the reason of this
deflation is that companies put priority on the adjustment of
balance sheet, and they didn’t borrow money from banks, and they
didn’t make investments, and this led to deflation.  Do you
think that the situation of eurozone is now similar to Japan?
Thank you.  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  No, I don’t think it is similar to
Japan.  I don’t think so.  Some -- we have to go back to 2009
and think from -- think since then what things should have
happened.  Well, it’s quite clear that in different degrees
across member countries, both the public sector and the private
sectors and the banking sector were all overleveraged.
Overleveraged meant to have too much debt.  And all the quality
of their assets was not -- was not good.  So they had to do
deleveraging.  We should not forget that there were bubbles in the
construction sector in Spain, but more generally it was a
situation that in some countries -- not all, not everywhere, but
in some countries saw a very high degree of debt that had to be
reduced or it had to be reduced the debt to assets or, in the
case of the public sector, it was both deficits and debts that
had to go down.  So you had a period of time when most countries actually
ran a fiscal consolidation program, and on the private-sector
side, you had a significant deleveraging both by corporations
and by banks.  And this, of course, combined with some other
changes in the euro area, especially changes in the risk
perception that had taken place in 2011.  You certainly remember
the stress tests, the mark-to-market valuations of debt, the
absence of a backstop for a long time, the PSI.  All these
things have changed the risk perception with respect to
sovereign debt.  So all these situations created -- are at the root of the
recession.  So now we are coming out of that.  We are actually -
- if you look from distance at the eurozone, you see that the
fundamentals in this area are probably the strongest in the
world.  This is a zone that has the lowest budget deficit in the
world.  Our primary -- our deficit, public deficit, aggregate
public deficit is actually a small surplus.  We have a small
primary surplus of 0.7 percent compared with -- I think it’s --
what is it, 6 percent or 7 percent deficit in U.S., 6 percent, I
think, and 8 percent in Japan.  It’s the zone -- it’s the area
with the highest current account surplus.  And it’s also the
area, as we said before, with one of the lowest, if not the
lowest inflation rate.  Now, this doesn’t mean automatically -- doesn’t translate
automatically into a galloping recovery.  But actually, it gives
you the fundamentals on which you can pursue -- you can pursue
the right economic policies.  Structural reforms are the
condition necessary and sufficient for this to happen.  In
absence of that, unfortunately, we should -- we are going to
stay here for quite a long time.  STAFF:  Claudio Perez (ph), El Pais?  QUESTION:  Yeah, this is Claudio Perez (ph) from the
Spanish daily El Pais.  Mr. President, you have talked about
(inaudible) exercise without exceptions.  In this sense, do you
expect some exceptions on the application of the stated rules by
European Commission if a number of European banks need
precautionary capital after the stress tests?  DRAGHI:  We had -- now, you’re referring to banks that are
-- that have been found viable and with regulatory capital which
is above the minimum after the AQR, so the AQR has -- is a shot,
is an instant shot, and that would -- this would photograph a
situation where these banks would actually have -- be having
capital which is above the regulatory minimum.  Then we have the stress tests.  And the situation that I
have described in my letter was, what do we do in that situation
if a bank which is OK statically turns out to be wanting of
capital, in need of capital under stress?  Would you proceed to
bailing creditors of this bank right away?  Clearly, the
situation is difficult, because if you do so, then the creditors
will run away immediately and the bank would fail, even though
statically is solvent and is viable.  So I think this is a genuine problem.  And since then, we
have discussed -- we’ve discussed -- and we have statements, by
the way, by the -- by the commissioner -- by the Vice President
Almunia to this extent.  Both the ECB and the commission are
working on this.  So I am quite confident that by the time we
will do the stress tests, there will be in place a way to cope
with this problem.  Thank you.  STAFF:  Mariqua De Fao (ph), Correa (ph).  QUESTION:  Thank you.  We have less and less questions.
But referring to May 2003, you -- if I guess well, you wanted to
say something to a possible strategy overhauling which was
actually due after five years, or is it in your plans?  Many
people are talking about that.  Many ECB watchers are saying
that the strategy overhaul could be needed for inflation or for
adding a second column -- another column, for instance, of --
like the role in financial stability of the ECB into the
strategy or what you think of this.  DRAGHI:  No, I don’t think we had any discussion on this
point.  I think we are -- we are now in this situation, I’m not
sure -- I mean, are you thinking about an extension of our
mandate or -- it wouldn’t be up to us to decide what our mandate
is.  We perfectly happy with what we have today.  And so it’s up
to the legislators to decide the mandate of the ECB.  We have to, in a sense, apply the mandate, and that’s what
we are doing, by the way, with the decision today.  We have
acted fully in line with our mandate of maintaining price
stability with an objective to have an inflation rate close, but
below 2 percent.  That’s not to be forgotten.  QUESTION:  I was referring to the overhauling of the
strategy, which was due at the time of Mr. Ising (ph) and Mr.
Deusenberg (ph) back then and fixed the 2 percent objective,
which was not there before.  But, I mean (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI:  No, I’m sorry.  I think you have a longer memory.
Maybe Vitor has -- please, Vitor.  CONSTANCIO:  I was a member of the Governing Council then,
yes.  DRAGHI:  That’s right.  CONSTANCIO:  No, the 2 percent were there from the
beginning.  The difference was that in the beginning it was
defined that the definition of price stability was to have
inflation below 2 percent without any other consideration.  So
there was many discussions in the media and in the academic
circles that that definition meant that if inflation was minus 1
percent, it was OK, because it was below 2 percent.  So in May
2003, we clarified that that was not the case, so it was below 2
percent, but close to 2 percent, for the reasons that the
president stated in one of his answers.  We -- in -- in May 2003, we changed other small things in
the framework.  For instance, if you recall in the presentations
of the press conferences, monetary analysis came before economic
analysis, and it was reversed in that decision of May 2003.  It
was also clarified that when looking to monetary aggregates, we
were looking to a set of aggregates and not just M3.  Also, we changed the way the reference value was dealt with
before, until May 2003, and it was then clarified also that the
monetary analysis was more directed to medium-term
considerations as a way of cross-checking what was the result of
the economic analysis.  So there were four or five points of clarification, of
fine-tuning of the framework.  And the main change was
nevertheless the definition of the objective, which before had
not this idea of below 2 percent, but close to 2 percent.  STAFF:  And the last question...  CONSTANCIO:  But it was done.  STAFF:  Last question.  QUESTION:  Ken Louie Patterson (ph) from Johanns Posten
(ph) in  Denmark .  When you said in your introductory statement
that you expect a prolonged period of low inflation followed by
an uptick, the October numbers came out more negatively than
expected.  So what’s your rationale for believing that there
won’t be more negative news out there to pull figures even lower
and going into deflation, because you’ve continued to say there
is a downside risk to the economy?  Thank you.  DRAGHI:  I think I did say this in the introductory
statement.  We believe that there are -- we believe -- well,
basically, the -- we will be clearer in December when we have
our macro projections, but it’s a combination of energy prices
and other prices, the weakness of the economy for some time.  So this gives us the -- the evidence to say that it’s going
to be -- it’s going to be there for a protracted period of time.
 And it’s also true that, as the recovery will gain momentum, we
also see that the possibility of a return to our inflation
expectations levels.  So we are -- we see expectations of inflation firmly
anchored at 2 percent.  We know that at some point in time,
inflation -- actual inflation will drive back.  We now see that
this point of time is not next month.  And that’s what I tried
to convey.  We will be clearer on the factors behind our subdued
-- our outlook of a subdued inflation for a protracted period of
time in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  