-- Europe Tests Drone Warplanes in Battle to Resist U.S. Domination
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-11-07T08:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/europe-tests-drone-warplanes-in-battle-to-resist-u-s-domination.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , Britain’s biggest
defense company, has tested its first combat drone with jet
fighter-like capabilities, stepping up European efforts to close
a 10-year gap to the U.S. in developing a new class of warplane.  The U.K. Parliament’s defense committee said in a report
that flight trials of BAE’s Taranis drone have taken place in
2013, the first public acknowledgment that the model has flown.
The milestone comes as the Neuron combat drone developed by
France’s  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  and  Saab AB (SAABB)  of Sweden resumes
flying after months of ground tests.  Europe is playing catch-up in the unmanned combat aircraft
field as it seeks to avoid a rerun of its failure in the market
for so-called endurance surveillance drones, which was ceded to
U.S. and Israeli rivals. In the combat arena,  Boeing Co. (BA)  flew
its X-45 test model as long ago as 2002, while  Northrop Grumman
Co. (NOC) ’s X-47B successfully landed on an  aircraft carrier  in July.  “It’s important for Europe to get its act together,” Saab
Chief Executive Officer Hakan Buskhe said in a telephone
interview from Stockholm. “We should have the goal of being a
world leader in this area. We started slow.”  London-based BAE, which has had links to U.S. combat drone
efforts, had worked through a series of technology demonstrators
before flying the Taranis, a model that’s the size of a Hawk jet
trainer and designed to be all-but invisible to enemy radar.  Cost-Effective  Flight trials scheduled for last year were delayed to allow
for more ground tests.  Investment in Taranis, on which the U.K. is spending 180
million pounds ($287 million), will offer “more advanced
capabilities” than current jets, according to the parliamentary
report released last month. BAE referred questions to the
Ministry of Defense, which said only that “progress
continues.”  BAE, which is working with  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  and
 Qinetiq Group Plc (QQ/)  on Taranis, has a U.K. contract to chart a
path to an operational design, and the drone would provide a
“cost-effective solution” for maintaining a British ability to
strike target deep behind enemy lines, the committee said.  The Franco-Swedish Neuron drone flew twice last year before
undergoing tests of its radar-evading features which showed
“excellent” stealth performance, according to an e-mail from
Dassault. The drone resumed flying in the second half.  U.S. Lead  Trials are focused on a flight center at Istres, southern
France, where it will remain until next fall before
transitioning to Vidsel in northern Sweden, Europe’s biggest
overland test range. The partnership also includes Italy’s
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) ,
which is involved via its Spanish business.  Germany has no formal combat drone program, though EADS has
been flying its Barracuda demonstrator in Canada to validate the
technologies needed for such a system.  European advances still leave the region lagging years
behind the capabilities displayed by U.S. drones, with  Falls
Church , Virginia-based Northrop’s X-47B logging more than 100
flights, including its landing on the USS George H.W. Bush, as
the U.S. Navy works to field an operational system around 2020.  While Saab’s Buskhe, who is also promoting an unmanned
version of the Gripen fighter, says he’s confident Europe can
catch up, the importance of a coherent strategy among leading
European players cannot be underestimated, according to Douglas
Barrie, senior fellow for military aerospace at the
International Institute for Strategic Studies in  London .  “Present research and technology efforts both conclude
after a comparatively small number of flight tests,” he said.
“And as yet there is no set route beyond these.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  