-- Euro Falls on Unexpected Interest-Rate Cut; Czech Koruna Tumbles
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-11-07T22:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/euro-falls-on-unexpected-interest-rate-cut-czech-koruna-tumbles.html
The euro fell the most in two years
versus the dollar after the  European Central Bank  unexpectedly
cut its main refinancing rate to a  record-low  0.25 percent to
boost growth in the 17-member currency region.  The  Czech koruna  dropped the most on record versus the euro
as its central bank approved the first currency sales in more
than a decade. The dollar extended gains as a report showed the
world’s biggest economy expanded at a faster pace than forecast
before tomorrow’s jobs report. The euro pared losses after a
report said the Bundesbank president and at least two other
officials opposed the rate cut, according to two central-bank
officials. The yen gained on haven demand as stocks dropped.  “News after the press conference suggests the Bundesbank
wasn’t behind today’s rate cut,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief
economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York , said in a
phone interview. “That shows the vote wasn’t unanimous and one
more potential rate cut can be pretty much ruled out.”  The euro fell 0.7 percent to $1.3419 at 5 p.m. New York
time after slipping as much as 1.6 percent, the biggest drop
since December 2011. It touched $1.3296, the weakest level since
Sept. 16. The 17-nation shared currency slid 1.3 percent to
131.63 yen.  Japan ’s currency added 0.6 percent to 98.09 per
dollar after dropping as much as 0.8 percent.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index climbed 0.4 percent to
1,017.12 after touching 1,022.30, highest since Sept. 13. It
gained as much as 0.9 percent, the most since Aug. 1.  Koruna, Krone  The koruna tumbled as the Czech central bank began
unlimited koruna sales “for as long as needed” to ease
monetary policy and keep the  exchange rate  near 27 per euro
after inflation slowed to the least in 3 1/2 years. Policy
makers kept the benchmark interest rate at what they call a
“technical zero” of 0.05 percent.  The  Czech currency  fell as much as 4.7 percent to close at
26.984 per euro, the biggest drop since the single currency was
introduced in 1999.  Norway’s krone slid against all of its 16 major peers after
a report showed manufacturing production fell 0.2 percent in
September from a month earlier. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.7 percent gain.  The  krone  weakened 1.5 percent to 6.0456 per dollar and
slipped 0.8 percent against the euro to 8.1127.  The pound strengthened 0.8 percent to 83.37 pence per euro
after appreciating to 83.01 pence, the strongest level since
Jan. 17, as the  Bank of England  kept its key  interest rate  and
bond-buying target unchanged, matching the forecast by all
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ECB Debate  The ECB’s decision was predicted only by analysts at Bank
of America Corp., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG
among 70 surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The remaining 67 called for
no change.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann and Governing Council
members from countries traditionally aligned with the German
central bank’s view wanted to wait until next month when
forecasts and more data will be available before deciding, said
the people who asked not to be identified because the talks are
confidential.  Pledging to keep borrowing costs low for an “extended
period,” Draghi said weakening price pressures justified the
decision. Euro-area economic activity should “benefit from a
gradual strengthening of demand for exports,” he said.  ‘Growth Profile’  Exchange rates weren’t part of policy makers’ discussion,
he said. The euro has strengthened 5.2 percent this year, the
best performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has advanced
3.2 percent and the yen has slumped 10 percent.  A report published Oct. 31 showed the region’s annual
inflation rate unexpectedly fell to 0.7 percent last month, the
least since November 2009.  The rate cut “fits into our view that the inflation and
growth profile was going to push the ECB into more action
relative to the  Federal Reserve ,”  Ian Gordon , a New York-based
foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
which correctly predicted the move, said in a phone interview.
“That certainly creates an environment that the dollar will do
well.”  The dollar extended gains as U.S. GDP grew at a 2.8 percent
annualized rate in the third quarter, up from 2.5 percent in the
previous three months, and more than the 2 percent median-estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, according to
data released today.  ‘Underlying Resilience’  A separate report showed fewer Americans filed applications
for  unemployment benefits  last week, indicating firings haven’t
picked up following the partial government shutdown in the first
half of October. Jobless claims decreased by 9,000 to 336,000 in
the week ended Nov. 2, from 345,000 in the prior period, the
Labor Department said.  “The market will buy dollars on good news and disregard
bad numbers,” said  Richard Franulovich , the chief currency
strategist for the northern hemisphere at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
in New York. “Anything that looks weak will be discounted as an
effect of the shutdown and solid numbers will be read as signs
of underlying resilience in the economy.”  Nonfarm payrolls rose by 120,000 last month after a 148,000
gain in September, a separate Bloomberg survey indicated before
the Labor Department data tomorrow.  Volume in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options on the
euro-dollar exchange rate amounted to $17 billion today, the
largest share of currency trades at 33 percent, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. The total was 104 percent more
than the average trading for the pair for the past five
Thursdays at a similar time.  Options on the dollar-yen rate totaled $10 billion, or 20
percent of the total, with trading in the pair 17 percent more
than average. Total options trading was $51 billion today, from
$38 billion yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  