-- Lew Said to Warn Banks of Tough Volcker Rule in Meetings
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-11-07T19:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/lew-said-to-warn-banks-of-tough-volcker-rule-in-meetings.html
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
warned chief executive officers of top U.S. banks in a private
meeting last month that the final Volcker rule ban on
proprietary trading would be tougher than  Wall Street  expects.  At the meeting, details of which haven’t previously been
disclosed, Lew told industry leaders that he has been
encouraging regulators to make provisions of the Volcker rule
more stringent, according to two people familiar with the
meeting. The bank executives, members of the Financial Services
Forum, left the meeting concerned the final rule would be more
restrictive on their trading business than previously indicated,
the people said.  This week regulators are putting the final touches on the
rule, which could be released as soon as Dec. 10, according to
two other people familiar with the process. That time frame
would put regulators on track to meet the administration’s self-imposed deadline to complete the rule by the end of the year.  “I think that there’s still work to do before this is
completed. But I am very heartened by the progress that I’m
seeing and that we’ll get something this year,”  Mary Miller ,
the Treasury Department’s undersecretary for domestic finance,
said yesterday at a Bloomberg Link State & Municipal Finance
Conference in  New York .  Portfolio Hedging  Administration officials have signaled that one provision
that will be more restrictive than the rule’s first draft is its
exemption for trades conducted as hedges against other risks.
The revised rule is expected to require hedges to be taken
against individual positions and limit broader hedges against a
bank’s entire portfolio. The change came in response to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s “London Whale” trades, which cost the bank $6.2
billion in 2012 and were described by bank officials as
portfolio hedging.  “They’ll probably put limits on portfolio hedging,” said
Douglas Landy, a partner at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP
in New York. He said regulators may grant a “more rational”
approach in other areas, such as limits on fund investments.  The Volcker rule is one of the most controversial pieces of
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and one of the final unfinished
provisions of its overhaul of financial regulation. A first
draft was released in October 2011; Lew has been pushing
regulators to complete the revised rule by the end of the year.  Getting Tougher  At the meeting, Lew told the group, whose members include
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America  Corp., that in
order to get the Volcker rule right, he prefers to err on the
side of making it tougher, said one of the people familiar with
the discussion. He also said that financial firms should root
for quick completion, because a failure to put the Volcker rule
in place could lend momentum to legislative proposals that would
be even harsher.  The meeting with Lew took place Oct. 2, the same day bank
executives, including JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon, Goldman Sachs’
 Lloyd Blankfein  and Brian Moynihan, CEO of  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , met with President  Barack Obama  at the White House to
discuss the federal debt ceiling.  Anthony Coley , a spokesman for the Treasury Department, and
Laena Fallon, a spokeswoman for the Financial Services Forum,
declined to comment on details of the Lew meeting.  While the Treasury Department isn’t responsible for writing
the rule, it’s coordinating the efforts of five U.S. regulatory
agencies: the  Federal Reserve  Board, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., Office of Comptroller of the Currency, Securities and
Exchange Commission, and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. The agencies are planning to hold meetings the week
of Dec. 9 to formally adopt the final version.  Saving Date  “I’ve told my fellow commissioners to save a particular
date in mid-December,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  told
reporters last week. At a conference in  Chicago  yesterday, he
said he’d been putting final touches on the draft the previous
night while on a business flight. “We know how to complete
rules,” he said.  The Volcker rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker , is aimed at preventing banks that hold federally
insured customer deposits from engaging in the kind of
speculative trading with their own capital that could threaten
their stability.  Standard & Poor’s  has estimated that the rule
could sap combined profits at the eight largest U.S. banks by $2
billion to $10 billion a year, depending on its final language.  Chamber Letter  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Center for Capital Markets
Competitiveness sent a  letter  today to the regulators asking
“that the Volcker Rule be reproposed before it is finalized as
this is the only way to address the fundamental issues raised
during and after the comment period.” The deficiencies it
cited, largely based on the initial proposal, included a failure
to properly weigh Volcker’s costs. The Chamber has used that
complaint to mount legal challenges to past rules.  In addition to limiting hedging and market-making, the
Volcker rule would forbid banks from holding more than a 3
percent stake in  hedge funds  and private-equity funds, which are
perceived as too high-risk. Large banks such as New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and JPMorgan have been cutting ties to private-equity units in response to the proposal.  Currently, banks have until July 21, 2014, to implement the
Volcker rule, even though regulators are behind schedule.
Industry representatives have been assured by regulators that
that deadline will probably be extended, according to three
people involved in the discussions.  Extension Authority  Under Dodd-Frank, the Federal Reserve has the authority to
grant three one-year extensions for implementing the rule to
banks requesting the delay. The central bank also could adjust
the implementation period as part of the final rule.  Banks concerned that the timeline is too short have already
begun drafting letters to regulators to request extensions.
Mitch Eitel, co-head of the Financial Institutions Group at
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, said his firm is preparing such
requests for banks.  “Banks cannot finalize their conformance plans -- or even
submit a coherent and comprehensive conformance-period extension
request -- until the final rules have been issued and they have
had a reasonable amount of time to analyze them,” Eitel said.  Shedding Units  A few of the biggest companies, including New York-based
Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , ranked fifth and sixth
respectively by assets, have already shut down some proprietary
trading operations and withdrawn investments that may be
outlawed under the rule.  “It is critical that regulators allow economically
important hedging and market-making to take place in a safely
regulated environment,” said  Rob Nichols , president and chief
executive officer of the Financial Services Forum, a Washington-based organization that lobbies on behalf of large financial
institutions.  With a “crushing” regulatory burden, the banks have been
conservative about straying anywhere near business fenced off by
Volcker, Landy said.  “Even if we could do something, the bar for getting any
kind of deal done is really, really high,” he said. “I think
their view is, let’s wait a year or two and we’ll see.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  