-- Ex-Antitrust Official Joins Gibson Dunn: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-11-07T11:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/ex-antitrust-official-joins-gibson-dunn-business-of-law.html
Scott Hammond, the former head of
criminal enforcement in the U.S. Justice Department’s antitrust
division, will join Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP as a partner in
Washington focusing on criminal antitrust and international
cartel matters.  Hammond was hired by the antitrust division after
graduating from University of North Carolina School of Law in
1988. In 2000, he was promoted to director of criminal
enforcement and named deputy assistant attorney General in 2005.  In that position, Hammond supervised domestic and
international criminal investigations and prosecutions, leading
the division’s enforcement efforts in industries including LCD
panels, air transportation and auto parts.  Among those cases was a guilty plea in September by
Mitsubishi Electric Corp., Hitachi Automotive Systems Ltd. and
seven other Japanese companies, which agreed to pay a total of
$740 million in fines for a price-fixing conspiracy targeting
automakers that resulted in inflated costs on more than $5
billion of parts.  Hammond also crafted the division’s leniency program that
rewards voluntary disclosure of cartel activity in order to
avoid criminal conviction, the firm said in a statement.  “Scott is a long-standing leader of global cartel
investigations and prosecutions, and his addition will ensure
that  Gibson Dunn  will continue to be the ‘go-to’ firm for cartel
defense work,” Gary Spratling, co-chairman of the firm’s
antitrust and trade regulation practice group said in a
statement.  Spratling, who led the division’s criminal enforcement when
Hammond was senior counsel, said, “He first established a model
enforcement program that is being replicated around the world,
and then was a leading force in facilitating international
cooperation among antitrust authorities globally.”  In April, Gibson Dunn hired another well-known antitrust
lawyer, Ali Nikpay. He joined the firm after working at the
U.K.’s competition authority, the  Office of Fair Trading , as the
senior director for cartels and criminal enforcement.  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,100 lawyers at 18 offices in
Asia,  Europe , the  Middle East  and the Americas  Quinn Emanuel Adds Cleary International White Collar Lawyer  Juan Morillo will join Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan,
LLP as a partner and co-chairman of the Washington white collar
and corporate investigations group. Morillo was previously a
partner in the Washington office of  Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP , where he focused primarily on white collar defense
and internal investigations for large corporate clients.  “We have been working hard over the last decade to expand
our international footprint. This is another big step in that
direction,” managing partner John B. Quinn said in a statement.
“Juan has built an impeccable reputation in the international
white collar bar representing foreign companies in high profile
cases.”  Quinn Emanuel  has more than 700 lawyers in its business
litigation firm at offices in the U.S., Asia and Europe.  Bracewell & Giuliani Adds Former Federal Prosecutor  Glen A. Kopp, a former federal prosecutor, has joined
Bracewell & Giuliani LLP’s  New York  office as a partner in the
white collar defense, internal investigations and regulatory
enforcement practice.  Kopp spent almost six years as an assistant U.S. attorney
in the Southern District of New York, where he handled
investigations and prosecutions of cases involving fraud,
terrorism, national security, hostage taking, and narcotics and
weapons trafficking, the firm said.  He prosecuted Mario Villanueva Madrid, a former Mexican
governor, for conspiring to launder millions of dollars of
illegal drug proceeds as well as Manssor Arbabsiar for plotting
to assassinate the Saudi Arabian Ambassador to the U.S., the
firm said.  At Bracewell & Giuliani, Kopp’s practice will focus on
criminal trials, regulatory enforcement, litigation, and
internal investigations.  “We’ve been consumed with jury trials and complex
investigations all around the country in the last couple of
years and Glen is the kind of first-rate lawyer we want in those
serious cases,” Marc L. Mukasey, who leads the firm’s white
collar practice, said in a statement.  Bracewell & Giuliani has 485 lawyers at offices in  Texas ,
New York, Washington,  Connecticut ,  Seattle , Dubai, and  London .  Davidoff Hutcher Adds to T&E Practice in Long Island Office  Davidoff Hutcher & Citron LLP announced that Sandra N.
Busell has joined the firm as a partner in the trusts and
estates group. She was previously managing partner of Busell &
Stier in Great Neck, New York.  Busell will continue her elder law and trusts and estates
practice, which covers matters related to trusts, estates,
Medicaid planning, elder care, guardianships and real estate.
Two associates will also be joining her.  Davidoff Hutcher has over 50 attorneys at offices in New
York,  Albany , Washington and Garden City,  Long Island .  News  Regulator Chilton to Step Down; Bowen Top Candidate  Bart Chilton, a U.S. regulator who pushed for tighter
regulation of swaps and derivatives, said he’ll step down from
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  A leading candidate under consideration to fill Chilton’s
spot is securities lawyer Sharon Y. Bowen, according to four
people in the financial industry who said they were briefed by
administration officials. Bowen, a partner with Latham & Watkins
LLP in New York, is acting chairman of the Securities Investor
Protection Corp., which restores funds to investors defrauded by
brokerages.  Chilton, 53, has been a member of the CFTC since 2007. His
announcement during an agency meeting yesterday comes less than
two months before CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , an ally and fellow
Democrat, is to leave the agency. With one seat on the five-member commission already vacant, departures by Chilton and
Gensler would leave the panel with just two members, Republican
 Scott O’Malia  and Democrat Mark Wetjen.  Chilton said he waited to announce his resignation until
the agency voted to propose a rule curbing the size of positions
in speculative commodity trading, which Chilton has blamed for
driving up consumer prices for gasoline. He didn’t say what he
plans to do after leaving the commission.  Bowen didn’t respond to telephone calls seeking comment.
The White House press office didn’t respond to requests for
comment sent after normal business  Norton Rose Wins Return of Mistakenly Disclosed Legal Documents  Australia ’s top court ordered the return of confidential
client communications to Norton Rose Fulbright’s Australian
office, saying that the  law firm  that mistakenly got them had a
duty to do so.  “In the not too distant past it was understood that acting
in this way obviates unnecessary and costly” applications, the
 High Court  of Australia said yesterday, overturning a state
appeal court decision  that  lawyers can’t reclaim rights to
confidentiality over inadvertently released documents.  Marque Lawyers, acting for a company suing Norton Rose
Fulbright’s clients, refused to return 13 documents they were
mistakenly given in 2011. It claimed that attorney-client
privilege over the communications in the documents had been
waived by being sent to them as part of court-ordered discovery
and the state appeal court agreed last year.  “In reality, there was no question of waiver sufficient to
be agitated,” the High Court said today in its  ruling . “Any
allegation of waiver was going to turn on a legal, technical
argument tangential to the main proceedings, and should not have
been made.”  Michael Bradley , managing partner at Marque, wasn’t
immediately available to comment on the ruling.  Australia’s top court, which widened the scope of
privileged documents in 1999, hasn’t addressed the issue of them
being released by mistake until now.  The case is Expense Reduction Analysts Group Pty v.
Armstrong Strategic Management and Marketing Pty. 2013/HCA46
High Court of Australia (Canberra).  Firm News  Real Estate Law Firm Opens San Francisco Office With New Hire  California real estate law firm Miller Starr Regalia is
establishing an office in San Francisco with firm attorneys who
are relocating as well as with the hire of a real estate
shareholder.  F. Gale Connor, who has been practicing eminent domain and
real property law in  San Francisco  for more than 25 years, has
joined the firm as a shareholder from Nossaman LLP.   “With the increase in real estate activity, including the
migration of many high tech companies from Silicon Valley to
South of Market, the growth of biotechnology, health-care and
pharmaceutical companies, as well as land development and
business expansion from clients headquartered in San Francisco
or doing significant business here, we believe that establishing
an office in SOMA places our transactional, land use and
litigation attorneys in the heart of the action,” Anthony M.
Leones, Miller Starr’s managing shareholder said in a statement.  Joining Connor in the San Francisco office are Miller
Starr shareholders Lance Anderson and Kenneth Styles as well as
a litigation associate.  Anderson is a transactional shareholder with experience in
retail, office, industrial and laboratory leasing as well as the
acquisition and disposition of real estate. Styles is a
shareholder whose practice focuses on commercial and real estate
litigation and title and escrow regulatory/consulting matters.  Miller Starr is headquartered in Walnut Creek, CA with a
Southern California office located in Newport Beach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  