-- Exxon, BP Among Explorers Urged to Disclose More Fracking Data
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-11-07T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/exxon-bp-among-explorers-urged-to-disclose-more-fracking-data.html
North American shale explorers led by
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  are failing to disclose enough data
on how they’re reducing risks associated with hydraulic
fracturing, according to a study.  “Hydraulic fracturing operations are under intense
scrutiny for potential harm to neighboring communities and the
environment -- from air and water pollution to increased noise,
traffic and crime,” Danielle Fugere, president of As You Sow
Foundation, a non-profit focused on environmental and corporate
responsibility, said in a statement today.  No company disclosed information on even half of the 32
indicators that investors need to assess business risk, the
report showed. Exxon, based in Irving,  Texas , and London-based
BP placed near the bottom of 24 companies evaluated.  Encana
Corp. (ECA) , the best performer, provided information on only 14 of
the 32 indicators. Only one company,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , quantified
its reductions in the use of toxic chemicals and it failed in 29
other categories.  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, cracks rock with a
mixture of millions of gallons of water, sand and chemicals so
oil and natural gas will flow. Coupled with horizontal drilling
that exposes thousands of feet of petroleum-bearing rock to well
bores, it has revived growth in U.S. oil and gas production.
Checklist items in today’s report range from the absence of
diesel fuels in fracturing fluids to traffic congestion policy
and disclosure of fines.  The report was released by  Boston  Common Asset Management
LLC,  Green Century (GCEQX)  Capital Management Inc., Investor
Environmental Health Network and As You Sow.  Reduce Disruptions  Companies that disclose steps to reduce disruptions by
fracking “will reduce regulatory and reputational risks;
enhance their likelihood of securing and maintaining their
social license to operate; reduce liabilities associated with
poor performance, spills, contamination, and lawsuits; and
thereby increase their access to capital,” the authors wrote.  One of the co-authors was Richard Liroff of Investor
Environmental Health Network, whose 2011  report  on fracking was
the basis for the checklist.  “Investors thrive on quantitative information,” Liroff
said today in a phone interview. “It gives us a sense of the
extent to which various practices are being adopted that can,
one, reduce environmental risk and community impact and, two,
save the companies money.”  The report defined disclosure as public information on
company websites and financial statements.  As You Sow is based in Oakland,  California ,  Boston Common (BCAMX) 
Asset Management and Green Century are based in Boston and the
Investor Environmental Health Network is based in  Falls Church ,
Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  