-- Fannie Mae to Pay U.S. $8.6 Billion on Third Quarter Profit
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-11-07T13:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/fannie-mae-to-pay-treasury-8-6-billion-on-third-quarter-profit.html
Fannie Mae , the mortgage financier
seized by U.S. regulators in 2008, will pay the Treasury
Department $8.6 billion after reporting a seventh consecutive
quarterly profit on continued recovery in the housing market.  The Washington-based company, which is operating under
federal conservatorship, had net income of $8.7 billion for the
three-month period that ended Sept. 30, according to a filing
released today. Fannie Mae ended the quarter with a positive net
worth of $11.6 billion, according the filing.  After its latest payment, the government-sponsored
enterprise will have sent the Treasury a total of $113.9
billion, compared with the $117.1 billion of federal aid it has
received.  “We are quickly approaching the point where taxpayers will
receive a positive return on their investment in this company,”
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  Chief Executive Officer Timothy J. Mayopoulos said
today on a conference call with reporters. “That’s obviously
very good news for taxpayers.  I’m confident in the near-term we
will return more in dividend payments than we will have taken in
draws.”  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  were taken over by regulators in
September 2008, shortly before the failure of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and the rescue of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , amid losses that pushed them toward collapse. The
companies have returned to profitability as the housing market
recovered and they raised fees for loan guarantees.  Permitted Reserve  Net income at Fannie Mae last year exceeded that of
companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Starting this year, the terms of the U.S.-owned
companies’ obligation to the government were changed so that
they now return to Treasury all profits above a permitted
capital reserve and the money isn’t counted as repayment.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , which were created by the
federal government before becoming publicly traded companies,
buy mortgages from lenders and package them into securities on
which they guarantee payments of principal and interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  