-- Freddie Mac Profits Push Dividend Return Close to Aid Amount
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-11-08T15:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/freddie-mac-profits-push-dividend-return-close-to-bailout-funds.html
Freddie Mac  and  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  will
return $39 billion to the U.S Treasury after reporting third-quarter profits, bringing their total payments to within about
$2 billion of the cash aid they got after the credit crisis.  The mortgage-finance companies, which were sustained by
$187.5 billion in taxpayer money after they were placed under
federal conservatorship in 2008, will make dividend payments by
next month to boost their total returns to $185.2 billion, they
said in separate filings yesterday.  “We are quickly approaching the point where taxpayers will
receive a positive return on their investment in this company,”
Fannie Mae Chief Executive Officer Timothy J. Mayopoulos said on
a conference call with reporters. “That’s obviously very good
news for taxpayers.”  Under terms of their conservatorship, the government since
last year has been taking all of the companies’ quarterly
profits beyond a $3 billion net-worth cap. The money counts as a
return on the U.S. investment and not as a repayment of the aid,
leaving  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  without an avenue for exiting
conservatorship and fueling controversy among holders of their
junior-preferred and common stock.  Freddie Mac alone will pay $30.4 billion after reporting
net income of $30.5 billion for the three-month period that
ended Sept. 30, according to its statement. The McLean,
Virginia-based company’s results were driven by a decision to
reverse writedowns on $23.9 billion in tax credits, considered
valuable now that it has returned to profitability.  ‘Steady Earnings’  The company has taken $71.336 billion in aid from Treasury
and will have returned $71.345 billion, leaving taxpayers $9
million ahead, according to a statement. The U.S. government has
an additional $1 billion liquidation preference in the company.  Donald Layton, Freddie Mac’s chief executive officer,
cautioned against interpreting the results as an indicator of
future profits.  “It’s a reflection of the housing cycle coming back,”
Layton said on a call with reporters. “I would not ever
characterize the next few years as ones in which there would be
steady earnings necessarily, or in any way promise steady
earnings.”  Fannie Mae  Fannie Mae will pay the Treasury Department $8.6 billion
after  reporting  a quarterly profit of $8.7 billion for the
three-month period that ended Sept. 30, according to a filing.  After its latest payment, the Washington-based company will
have sent the Treasury a total of $113.9 billion, compared with
the $116.1 billion of federal aid it has received. The U.S. also
has a $1 billion liquidation preference in Fannie Mae, which the
company counts as part of the aid it received.  The two government-sponsored enterprises, which were
created by the federal government before becoming publicly
traded companies, buy mortgages from lenders and package them
into securities on which they guarantee payments of principal
and interest.  The reversal of fortune by the companies, which had been
regarded as unlikely to return to profitability, could have an
impact on the debate over their future. Lawmakers in both houses
of Congress are working on measures to wind them down.  “I think it continues to cool the debate,” Tim Rood, a
former Fannie Mae executive and now managing director at
Collingwood Group LLC, said in an interview.  “And frankly
there shouldn’t be any urgency around it. If you just did this
for another year or two, you’re going to have gone a long way to
pay for the sins and the credit expense of the past.”  Add Urgency  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican who co-wrote a
bipartisan bill that would liquidate the companies, said the
results add urgency to efforts to bring private capital back to
the mortgage market. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac back about two-thirds of new home loans.  “While I’m always glad when taxpayers see a return on
investment, we can’t forget that Fannie and Freddie wouldn’t be
earning one penny today without the government guaranteeing
their transactions,” Corker said in a statement. “It is time
to move to a modernized 21st century housing-finance system.”  Senator  Mark Warner , the Virginia Democrat who co-wrote the
bill with Corker, said the earnings news “reinforces the need
to apply responsible reforms to restructure Fannie and Freddie
and the broader market.”  Shareholders including Perry Capital and Fairholme Funds
Inc. have sued the U.S., charging that Treasury is expropriating
the value of its investors’ preferred shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  