-- Freddie Mac to Pay Treasury $30.4 Billion on Quarterly Profit
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-11-07T14:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/freddie-mac-to-pay-treasury-30-4-billion-on-quarterly-profit.html
Freddie Mac , the U.S.-owned mortgage
financier, will return $30.4 billion to the Treasury Department,
after reporting a third-quarter profit that boosted its total
payments above the amount the company has received in aid
following the credit crisis.  The McLean, Virginia-based company, which has operated
under federal conservatorship since it was seized in 2008, had
net income of $30.5 billion for the three-month period that
ended Sept. 30, according to a statement released today. The
results marked the company’s eighth consecutive profitable
quarter.  Freddie Mac, which ended the quarter with positive net
worth of $33.4 billion, is required to pay Treasury everything
above a $3 billion permitted reserve in return for the taxpayer
aid it has received under conservatorship. The company, which
was sustained by drawing $71.336 billion in aid from Treasury,
has now returned $71.345 billion, according to a company
statement.  Freddie Mac (FMCC) ’s net worth, and therefore its payment to
Treasury, were boosted by a reversal of writedowns on $23.9
billion in tax credits, which may be valuable now that the
company has returned to profitability.  The company and Washington-based  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  have been
profiting from the rebound in the housing market. Through the
second quarter of this year, they paid Treasury a total of $146
billion in dividends, which count as a return on the U.S.
investment in the firms and not repayment of their debt to
taxpayers.  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, which were created by the
federal government before becoming publicly traded companies,
buy mortgages from lenders and package them into securities on
which they guarantee payments of principal and interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  