-- French Shoppers to Reduce Christmas Budget, Study Shows
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-11-07T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/french-shoppers-to-reduce-christmas-budget-study-shows.html
French shoppers plan to cut their
Christmas-season spending, joining Italians and Greeks in
reducing purchases as unemployment in the euro region lingers at
record highs, a study by  Deloitte LLP  shows.  The French will spend 0.9 percent less on average than last
year celebrating the late-December holiday, while Italian buyers
will scale back their budget for the season by 2.4 percent and
Greeks by almost 13 percent, according to a poll taken in mid-September of more than 17,000 consumers in 18 countries.
Germans, Russians and Spaniards are among consumers who will
spend more this year.  The economy of the 17 nations using the euro emerged from a
six-quarter recession, the longest since the currency was
created in 1999, in the three months through June. Gross
domestic product in France has increased following a six-month
contraction that ended in March. The European Commission
forecast on Nov. 5 that the French economy will expand for the
full year, while GDP in Greece and  Italy  will shrink.  The Deloitte poll was conducted in 14 European Union
countries, including 11 in the euro area, as well as
Switzerland, Ukraine,  Russia  and South Africa.  On average, Europeans will purchase 450 euros ($610) worth
of gifts, food and drinks and socializing at the end of the
year, 0.7 percent more than in the 2012 period, with money and
books the most desired presents, Deloitte said. The regionwide
growth will be the first since 2008.  Spending Projections  Shoppers in France will spend an average 531 euros during
the season, and Greeks will lay out 451 euros, Deloitte said.
Irish consumers still have the largest budget, at 894 euros,
following a 1.7 percent cut, according to the study. Germans
will raise their Christmas budget 6.7 percent to an average 399
euros, while Spanish buyers will increase theirs by 1 percent to
567 euros.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, cut its
forecast for euro-area economic growth next year on Nov. 5 as
the sovereign-debt crisis drags into a fifth year.  Unemployment (UMRTEMU) 
in the region was at 12.2 percent in August and September, the
highest since the euro was introduced.  More than four French consumers out of 10 estimate their
purchasing power will diminish next year, according to
Deloitte’s study. Sixty-four percent are cutting back Christmas
buying because they expect the economy to worsen, compared with
only 57 percent with that view last year.  While French consumers plan to cut their gifts budget by
2.7 percent, they will spend 2 percent more for the Christmas
meal, Deloitte said. Eighty-two percent of French shoppers will
seek discounts when doing their Christmas shopping, it said.
Online purchases are planned by 38 percent of shoppers in
 France , compared to 47 percent of Germans and 21 percent of
Greeks.  Entertainment, electronics and holidays are among the
expenses that Europeans are the most ready to reduce, the
Deloitte survey shows. A majority of Europeans aren’t ready to
cut health, housing and education expenses, the figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  