-- Galaxy Entertainment Profit Rises on Higher Spending
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-11-07T04:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/galaxy-entertainment-profit-rises-on-higher-spending.html
Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , the
Macau casino operator that made Lui Che-woo  Asia ’s second-richest person, said third-quarter profit jumped 24 percent as
Chinese visitors spent more at its two main casinos.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or adjusted Ebitda, increased to HK$3.2 billion
($413 million) for the three months ended September, compared
with the HK$3.11 billion average  estimate  from seven analysts
compiled by Bloomberg, the company said in a filing to  Hong
Kong ’s stock exchange today.  An improved rail connection, increased hotel supply and new
attractions are drawing more mainland Chinese visitors to Macau,
the only place in  China  where casino gambling is legal. Galaxy
is expanding in Macau’s Cotai area, the city’s answer to the  Las
Vegas Strip , to compete with rivals including  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ,
whose profit rose 62 percent in the same quarter.  Galaxy Entertainment  owns the largest undeveloped landbank
in Macau, according to DS Kim, a Hong Kong-based analyst at BNP
Paribas. The landbank “would enable the company to quadruple
its footprint with Galaxy Macau expansions,” he said.  Galaxy rose 0.4 percent to HK$57.8 at mid-day break in Hong
Kong trading. The stock has risen 90 percent this year, beating
the 1 percent gain from the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Group revenue rose 16 percent to HK$16.3 billion. VIP
turnover, or bets by high-stakes gamblers, at Galaxy Macau, the
company’s flagship casino, climbed 10 percent to HK$191 billion
while mass-gaming revenue jumped 11 percent to HK$7 billion.  VIP turnover at StarWorld Macau, another flagship casino,
rose 15 percent and mass-gaming revenue climbed 8 percent.  Grand Waldo  VIPs account for about two-thirds of the casino revenue
that flows into Macau, the world’s largest gambling hub. They
typically play for high stakes and are brought in by junkets who
take commissions from casinos.  Lui, who has a net worth of $21.7 billion, is Asia’s
second-richest man after Hong Kong tycoon  Li Ka-shing , according
to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  The Hong Kong-based company in July completed the HK$3.25
billion purchase of the Grand Waldo complex in Macau, which
includes a spa and hotel, to increase its presence in Cotai. The
company said in August that it will take six to nine months to
relaunch the Grand Waldo casino, which is adjacent to Galaxy
Macau.  The phase-two expansion at the existing Galaxy Macau
resort, will add as many as 500 gaming tables and 1,300 rooms
from the JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton hotels by mid-2015.  Galaxy plans to spend as much as HK$60 billion to begin the
third and fourth phases of the project as early as the end of
this year and begin operations from 2016 through 2018.  Casino revenue in  Macau  jumped 32 percent to a record 36.5
billion patacas ($4.6 billion) in October, boosted by mainland
Chinese visitors who spent their weeklong National Day holidays
in the city.  Gambling revenue in Macau increased 18 percent to 297.1
billion patacas in the first 10 months of this year, close to
the $38 billion revenue raked in last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  