-- Gamesa Posts Profit on Lower Costs, Emerging Market Boom
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-11-08T11:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/gamesa-posts-profit-on-lower-costs-emerging-market-boom.html
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) ’s cost
reduction program may yield further gains to earnings after the
Spanish wind turbine maker said its turnaround plan produced a
profit in the third quarter and brought a sales target closer.  “Gamesa’s cost-saving actions, including both fixed and
variable costs, will continue into 2014,” Jose Arroyas, an
analyst at Grupo Santander, wrote in a note sent by e-mail
today. “This is positive as our belief was that management’s
fixed-cost-savings actions would be substantially completed in
2013.”  The Spanish manufacturer yesterday said it had a margin on
earnings before interest and tax of 5.4 percent for the first
nine months, above its guidance for the year and exceeding the
0.2 percent margin for the same period last year. Its 31
million-euro ($41.6 million) profit for the period compared with
a 67 million-euro loss for the same period in 2012.  The company said it expects Ebit margin for the year of
least 5 percent, a “slight upgrade” that indicates
“confidence,” according to Arroyas. It also expects to reach
the upper end of a sales objective by selling 2,000 megawatts
this year after signing 470 megawatts of orders in October.  Turbine makers including  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , Gamesa
and  Nordex SE (NDX1)  have been cutting staff and closing factories to
reduce fixed costs after governments in some of  Europe ’s biggest
wind markets reined in renewables support. Gamesa has announced
2,600 job cuts and will shut 24 offices to save 100 million
euros a year. It’s seeking more sales in  emerging markets .  “Our fundamental markets are going to be the emerging
markets,” where power demand is growing more quickly than in
Europe, Xabier Etxeberria, chief executive officer for business,
said on a conference call with analysts yesterday. The company
will focus “much more” on Brazil and India, and  China  also
offers an opportunity, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  