-- Gap Climbs After Expected Quarterly Profit Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-11-08T14:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/gap-climbs-after-expected-quarterly-profit-surpasses-estimates.html
Gap Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer, climbed the most in 15 months after saying it
anticipates quarterly profit that surpassed analysts’ estimates,
helped by gains in sales.  The San Francisco-based retailer rose 7.2 percent to $40.47
at 9:45 a.m. in New York after rising as much as 8 percent for
the biggest intraday gain since August 2012.  Gap said profit in the third quarter ended Nov. 2 was as
much as 71 cents a share, compared with 63 cents a year earlier.
That exceeds the 66-cent average of analysts’ estimates. Net
sales in the quarter rose 3.1 percent to $3.98 billion, Gap also
said in a statement yesterday, beating the average estimate of
$3.96 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Murphy  is seeing success in
turning around sales at the company, drawing customers to the
Gap brand with new denim and fitness apparel and to Old Navy
with its value-focused pricing.  “Of all the apparel retailers, Gap is still better
positioned to gain share,” Poonam Goyal, a retail analyst for
Bloomberg Industries, said in an interview. “October sales were
good and the guidance was good, and hence the stock is up.”  Gap said comparable sales rose 4 percent in October,
exceeding analysts’ average estimate for a 0.6 percent increase,
according to Retail Metrics Inc. Same-store sales rose 1 percent
in the third quarter, compared to a 6 percent gain a year
earlier.  Sales Discounts  Same-store sales for the more than 10 retailers tracked by
Retail Metrics rose 3.4 percent last month, excluding results
from drugstores, the Swampscott, Massachusetts-based researcher
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Analysts had estimated
a 2.3 percent gain, the researcher said.  Gap may have boosted its sales through discounts, which
were deeper across all brands in October than last year,
according to research by Janney Capital Markets. The retailer
yesterday said it expects to report profit margins on
merchandise sold in the third quarter that were lower than the
same time last year.  In the absence of a strong fashion trend like last year’s
colored denim, apparel retailers are turning to discounts to woo
shoppers, which may hurt margins in the fourth quarter as well.
Gap announced Nov. 6 that its  Old Navy  brand will award $1
million to one shopper on Black Friday.  ‘Tough Spot’  “Competitively they’re in a tough spot because teen and
young-adult apparel is the most competitive category to be in
right now,” Ike Boruchow, a New York-based analyst at Sterne,
Agee & Leach Inc. said in a phone interview before the results
were released. He has the equivalent of a sell rating on the
shares.  Retailers from  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  to L Brands Inc. reported a
gain in monthly sales in October as cooler temperatures helped
drive demand for sweaters and jeans. J.C. Penney posted its
first monthly gain in almost two years as sales at stores open
at least 12 months rose 0.9 percent in October, the company said
yesterday.  L Brands Inc. (LTD) , which owns the Victoria’s Secret and
Bath & Body Works brands, said in a statement yesterday that
comparable-store sales rose 8 percent, exceeding the estimate
for a 2.5 percent increase.  Meanwhile, teen retailers saw sales decline in the third
quarter as companies discounted merchandise to lure customers
with no major fashion trend to drive sales.  Abercrombie & Fitch
Co. (ANF)  said this week that comparable-store sales fell 14 percent
in the quarter ended Nov. 2. Third quarter same-store sales at
 American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  fell 5 percent including online
sales, the company said in a Nov. 6 statement.  Gap’s shares had gained 22 percent this year through the
close yesterday, compared to a 23 percent rise in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  The company will release its full third-quarter earnings
results on Nov. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  