-- Generali Third-Quarter Profit Rises as Operating Income Climbs
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-11-07T06:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/generali-third-quarter-profit-rises-as-operating-income-climbs.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Italy ’s
biggest insurer, said third-quarter  profit  rose 75 percent as it
earned more from its life segment and property and casualty
operations.  Net income rose to 510 million euros ($690 million) from
291 million euros a year earlier, Trieste, Italy-based Generali
said in a statement today. Earnings beat the 411 million-euro
average estimate of seven  analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “We are making good progress with the transformation of
our group and today’s results demonstrate that we are on track
to reach our targets,” Chief Executive Officer Mario Greco said
in a statement. “Now we will work with even greater focus on
improving our profitability,” he said, reiterating that
Generali expects higher operating results this year.  Greco, who took over as CEO last year, is selling non-strategic assets and focusing on the company’s main business to
strengthen finances and boost profitability. The insurer is more
than half way to reaching its goal of raising 4 billion euros
from disposals by 2015, after selling its U.S. reinsurance unit
and Mexican businesses earlier this year.  “We are positive on the company’s new more-focused
strategy and believe that the value this creates more than
offsets the downside risk of raising equity capital,” Andreas
van Embden, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note
last week.  Non-life operating profit increased 12 percent to 430
million euros as the insurer reduced costs. Claims and costs as
a proportion of premiums, known as the combined ratio, improved
to 95.1 percent in the first nine months of the year from 96.6
percent a year earlier.  Operating income rose 8.5 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier to 984 million euros as income at the life
business rose 13 percent to 591 million euros.  Generali’s solvency ratio, a measure of its capacity to
absorb losses, rose to 143 percent by Sept. 30 from 139 percent
in June, the insurer said. As of the end of October, the ratio
was 152 percent, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  