-- General Mills to McDonald’s Got Jump on FDA Trans Fats Cuts
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-11-07T21:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/general-mills-to-mcdonald-s-got-jump-on-fda-with-trans-fats-cuts.html
The U.S. government’s decision to
deem artificial trans fats unsafe for human consumption may have
little impact on foodmakers and restaurant chains because
they’ve been phasing them out for years.  Under pressure from activists such as the  American Heart
Association  and city and state governments, companies from
 General Mills Inc. (GIS)  to McDonald’s Corp. have been ridding their
products of partially hydrogenated oils, which contain trans
fats linked to a type of artery-clogging cholesterol.  Foodmakers have lowered trans fats in their products by 73
percent since 2005, according to Washington-based Grocery
Manufacturers Association. More than 90 percent of General Mills
U.S. retail products are labeled as having zero grams of trans
fat, Kirstie Foster, a spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.  “I can’t tell you the last time I bought crackers or
cookies, you name it, that I even saw any trans fat,” Brian Yarbrough, an analyst for Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said
today in an interview. “It’s a positive from the standpoint of
consumers, as trans fats are obviously bad for your health, but
for investors and the companies I don’t know it changes much.”  Trans fats are no longer “generally recognized as safe”,
according to a  tentative determination  published today by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The decision, while not yet
final, would lead to regulations that prevent food companies
from using the ingredient.  ConAgra Foods Inc. has removed trans fat from products such
as Orville Redenbacher’s popcorn,  Teresa Paulsen , a spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  “We took steps to remove partially hydrogenated oils from
many foods in our portfolio years ago,” she said. “We look
forward to learning more about the FDA proposal.”  Hydrogenated Oils  It won’t have much impact “on quick-service restaurants,
most of which use limited amounts of trans fats and hydrogenated
oils,” Bob Goldin, executive vice president at Chicago-based
restaurant researcher Technomic Inc., said in an interview. “I
don’t think it’s a big issue.”  The FDA’s ruling may force companies to clean up the rest
of their portfolios faster than they may have planned.  Burger
King Worldwide Inc. (BKW) ’s breaded chicken patties and molten fudge
bites have partially hydrogenated oils, according to the
company’s website.  Cinnabon Delights  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s KFC sells BBQ baked beans, mashed
potatoes, gravy and some dipping sauces, such as fiery buffalo
wings, with partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. Partially
hydrogenated soybean and cottonseed oils also can be found in
caramel apple empanadas, Cinnabon delights and green tomatillo
sauce at Yum’s Taco Bell.  The FDA began requiring food companies to include trans
fats on their labels in 2006 after more than a decade of
pressure from the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a
Washington, D.C.-based health advocacy group. Consumers began
turning away from foods with the fats soon after, the agency
said.  New York City  in 2006 began a ban on trans fats in
restaurants, and  California  followed suit in 2008.  General Mills declined 1.5 percent to $50.40 at the close
in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  