-- German Industrial Production Falls as Recovery Slows
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-11-07T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/german-industrial-production-falls-as-recovery-slows.html
German industrial production dropped
in September, signaling that growth in  Europe ’s largest economy
may have cooled in the third quarter.  Output (GRIPIMOM) , adjusted for seasonal swings, fell 0.9 percent from
August, when it rose a revised 1.6 percent, the Economy Ministry
in Berlin said today. Economists forecast no change, according
to the median of 36 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .
Production advanced 1 percent from a year earlier when adjusted
for working days.  The Bundesbank said last month that German economic growth
probably slowed last quarter, and business confidence
unexpectedly dropped in October for the first time in six
months. The 17-nation euro area, Germany’s largest trading
partner, is in an economic recovery that has been described as
“fragile” by European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi . ECB
officials are gathering in Frankfurt today for their monthly
policy meeting.  “It is a slow recovery but we’ve seen a turnaround in the
euro area,” said Lothar Hessler, an economist at HSBC Trinkaus
& Burkhardt AG in Dusseldorf. “German GDP growth may have
slowed a bit after the strong second quarter but the economy is
stable and growing solidly.”  German manufacturing output slid 1.1 percent in September,
with production of investment goods dropping 2.1 percent,
today’s report showed. Construction fell 1.8 percent, while
energy output rose 2.1 percent.  Upward Trend  Industrial production for the two months through September
climbed 0.6 percent, adding to data yesterday that showed German
factory orders increased more than estimated.  “Despite the current slight decline, the trend for
industrial production remains upward,” the  Economy Ministry 
said in the statement. “The rising trend in manufacturing and
construction orders points to a continued economic recovery.”  Germany’s gross domestic product probably expanded 0.4
percent in the three months through September after growth of
0.7 percent in the second quarter, according to Bloomberg’s
monthly economic survey published Oct. 10. The Federal
Statistics Office is scheduled to release preliminary GDP data
on Nov. 14.  Brenntag AG (BNR) , the largest distributor of chemicals, trimmed
its full-year profit forecast this month, saying it saw no
“tangible” upturn in markets and continued to face
“challenging” economic conditions, while  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the
Hamburg-based maker of Nivea hand cream, raised its full-year
sales forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  