-- German Stocks Are Little Changed Before ECB Rate Decision
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-11-07T08:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/german-stocks-are-little-changed-before-ecb-rate-decision.html
German stocks  were little changed,
trading near a record, as investors awaited the European Central
Bank’s latest interest-rate decision.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  jumped 8.8 percent after reporting a 15
percent increase in third-quarter profit as it paid less tax.
 Siemens AG (SIE)  rose 2.1 percent after posting income from continuing
operations that beat analysts’ estimates.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) 
dropped 3.1 percent after the world’s third-largest maker of
cement said third-quarter profit fell 7 percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  added 0.1 percent to 9,049.07 at 9:45 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The equity benchmark has rallied 19 percent this year
as central banks around the world pledged to leave interest
rates low for a prolonged period of time. The broader HDAX Index
was little changed today.  “Despite the fact that the current earning season is
solid, the mood on the markets remains unsteady,” Marcus Silbe,
a Frankfurt-based analyst at Close Brothers Seydler Research AG,
wrote in a note. “Furthermore, the European Central Bank is not
expected to cut its interest rate today.”  The ECB will announce its interest-rate decision at 1:45
p.m. in Frankfurt. President Mario Draghi holds a press
conference 45 minutes later. Three of the 70 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg  forecast  that the central bank will cut its
benchmark  interest rate  to 0.25 percent from 0.5 percent. In a
separate survey, eight out of 38 economists predicted that the
ECB will lower interest rates in December.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington may show the world’s biggest economy expanded at a 2
percent annualized rate in the third quarter, according to the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey. Gross
domestic product increased 2.5 percent in the previous period.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 85 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  