-- Germany Sees Giving EU Council Power to Shutter Euro Banks
-- B y   B i r g i t   J e n n e n   a n d   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-11-07T16:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/germany-sees-giving-eu-council-of-ministers-bank-closing-power.html
Germany has proposed giving the
 Council of the European Union , which represents member states’
governments, the final say in closing some failing banks, a
German official said.  The government of  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has led
opposition to a proposal from  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial-services chief, for a Single Resolution Mechanism to
handle euro-area  bank failures , claiming the plan is on shaky
legal ground and could endanger national control of budgets.  In one of the clearest statements of the German
government’s position to date, the official said the council,
which functions as part of the EU legislature along with the
European Parliament, would only need to decide on closures of
certain banks, though the definition of which cases would be
covered hasn’t been decided.  The proposed resolution authority, along with European
Central Bank oversight of euro-area lenders, scheduled to begin
in full next year, form the core of an effort to create a
banking union that would sever the link between bank and
sovereign debt. Prior to assuming its supervisory role, the ECB
will conduct a comprehensive assessment of the banks it will
later supervise.  Barnier’s plan gives the final say on bank closures to the
Brussels-based European Commission, the EU’s executive and
regulatory arm.  Germany  and other countries reject this
arrangement, citing potential conflicts of interest for the
commission.  Quick Decisions  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who chairs
meetings of euro-area finance chiefs, said he’d be prepared to
discuss the German proposal.  “The Netherlands prefers that the commission do this,”
Dijsselbloem told reporters in The Hague today. “But we can
certainly discuss having the Council of the European Union do
this on the condition that decisions could be made quickly and
effectively. It musn’t be politicized or lead to delays, because
resolution decisions must be made quickly.”  Dijsselbloem said the German position could be discussed
“in the spirit of compromise.” European finance ministers meet
in Brussels next week to discuss Barnier’s plan.  The commission isn’t wedded to being chief decision-maker
in the resolution system, Barnier has said, adding that he would
welcome a discussion of alternatives. The commission put itself
forward for the role because of its reading of the bloc’s
treaties.  The German official didn’t specify which group of ministers
would make such decisions within the council. EU finance
ministers are in charge of legislation regulating the financial
industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Ruhe in The Hague at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  