-- Giacometti, Picasso Help Sotheby’s Tally $290 Million
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-11-07T05:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/giacometti-picasso-help-sotheby-s-tally-290-million.html
After two disappointing Christie’s
auctions,  Sotheby’s (BID)  sold $290.2 million of Impressionist and
modern art in New York last night, the category’s highest tally
since the May 2012 sale in which Munch’s “Scream” sold for $120
million.  The top lot,  Alberto Giacometti ’s bronze bust of his
brother Diego, fetched $50 million, reaching the high presale
estimate. New York’s Acquavella Galleries Inc. bought the piece,
Sotheby’s said. Two Picassos together brought in almost $71
million.  “So the market is alive, right?” said  Tobias Meyer , the
evening’s auctioneer, at the end of the sale as the room erupted
in applause.  The results fell close to the high end of the auction’s
presale estimate range of $212.9 million to $307.9 million.
While 12 of the 64 offered lots failed to sell, records were set
for Gustave Courbet, Man Ray, Francis Picabia, Giacomo Balla and
Jean Arp. Five works sold for more than $10 million.  “I felt depressed after yesterday,” said Paris-based art
adviser Loic Malle, referring to the $144.3 million tally at
Christie’s Impressionist and modern art sale. “Today we are
back to the history of art, not just the branding. The works
deserve the prices.”  Steve Cohen  Picasso’s jewel-like 1935 portrait of Marie-Therese Walter
fetched $39.9 million, above the high estimate of $30 million.
It was bought by David Norman, Sotheby’s co-chairman of
Impressionist and modern art worldwide, for a client. (Prices
include buyer’s commission; estimates don’t.)  In recent years, Walter has been a popular subject with
wealthy collectors. Last year,  Steve Cohen , founder and owner of
SAC Capital Advisors LP, paid $155 million for Picasso’s “Le
Reve,” the most expensive painting of the artist’s young lover.  Cohen, whose firm is working out a $1.8 billion settlement
for insider-trading charges, watched the action from the skybox.
He regularly buys and sells at auction and has about $85 million
in postwar art coming up for sale at Sotheby’s next week.  Seven bidders chased Picasso’s 1969 painting of a musketeer
smoking a pipe. It sold to art dealer David Nahmad, for $30.9
million, the highest price for the Spaniard’s late phase.  Two Picabias  Balla’s “Automobile in Corsa,” a dynamic 1913 Futurist
painting, sold for $11.5 million, falling short of the low
estimate but still a record for the artist.  Two paintings by Picabia broke his previous record of $4.1
million, with “Volucelle II,” a 1922 geometric composition,
going for $8.8 million, above the high estimate. It went to a
telephone client of Alejandra Rossetti, head of Sotheby’s
private-client group in the U.S., who works with many Latin
American collectors.  Simon Shaw, Sotheby’s senior vice president and head of
Impressionist and modern art department in  New York , said
“powerful” bidding from Asia and  Brazil  boosted the results.  Other highlights included Courbet’s view of the Etretat
cliffs in Normandy, which fetched $3.7 million, a record for the
artist.  Seven hopefuls competed for Monet’s 1882 seascape,
“Coucher de Soleil a Pourville Pleine Mer,” which ended up
selling for $4.6 million, above the high estimate.  “There’s plenty of money,” said David Nash, co-owner of
Mitchell-Innes & Nash gallery, exiting the salesroom. “There’s
lots of bidding for good pictures as long as they are fresh to
the market and properly estimated. You see this again and again
and again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  