-- GM Labels Lose, But So Does Big Food
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-07T21:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/gm-labels-lose-but-so-does-big-food.html
For the second time, blue-state
voters have defeated a ballot initiative to require labeling of
genetically modified foods. In 2012, it was  California ; this
week, it was  Washington , where a labeling referendum  lost  55
percent to 45 percent.  Advocates of labeling may as well suspend similar efforts
in other states, because it’s clear that, when it comes to
persuading voters, they’re no match for Big Food. In  Washington ,
the Grocery Manufacturers Association, Monsanto Co., DuPont Co.
and others raised $22 million to fight the measure, almost
triple the $8.4 million collected by Whole Foods Markets Inc.,
Dr. Bronner’s Magic Soap, the Center for Food Safety and other
advocates of labeling. In California, the food industry
similarly  outspent  its opposition $46 million to $9 million.  This is too bad, because labeling would give consumers more
information about what’s in their food, and polls suggest it’s
something almost everyone wants. More than 90 percent of U.S.
consumers  favor  requirements for labels on foods that have had
their genetic makeup altered -- whether to make corn tolerant of
herbicides or to create plants that can secrete their own
bacterial insecticides.  But it isn’t the worst thing that could happen to  food
safety , simply because GM foods aren’t dangerous. Those self-secreted insecticides, for instance, are safe. And claims that
GM foods cause cancer, genetic defects, infertility or obesity
aren’t supported by research. The  Food and Drug Administration ,
the  American Medical Association , the  National Academy of
Sciences , the  American Association  for the Advancement of
Science and the  World Health Organization  have all concluded
that that GM foods pose no health risk.  What’s more, genetic modification, by protecting crops from
extreme weather, improves  food security  in the developing world.  The questions about GM crops -- whether they may have a
harmful effect on useful insects, for example, and whether pests
may build up resistance -- are important ones. But they have
been publicly undermined by some labeling advocates’  fear-mongering .  The  food industry  also raises a legitimate worry that
diverse state labeling laws could force them to make separate
packages for foods in different states.  Given the obstacles to labeling, and its limited benefits,
it would be better to refocus efforts to improve the U.S. food
supply on issues more worrying for human health. Already, the
FDA is proposing to eliminate  artificial trans fats  from the
food supply, and it should be encouraged to see that that
happens. The same agency should also be pressed to lower the
volume of antibiotics fed to animals in meat production.  As for genetically altered foods, perhaps public
preferences and competition will lead to voluntary labeling.
Whole Foods has  said  it will require GM labels on products in
its stores by 2018. And maybe if the food industry spent the
money now devoted to defeating labeling initiatives on telling
the public about the benefits of using science to improve and
expand the world’s  food supply  this whole issue might just go
away.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board: 
 view@bloomberg.net . 