-- Goldman Sachs Under Investigation in Currency Probe
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-11-07T14:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/goldman-sachs-is-under-investigation-in-currency-probe.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the world’s
most profitable securities firm before the financial crisis,
said it’s under investigation by regulators probing the
potential manipulation of foreign-exchange rates.  Currencies and commodities were added to a list of
financial products and related activities that are subject to
investigation, according to a regulatory filing published by the
New York-based company today. The filing also added options
trading and technology systems and controls to the list.  Investigators are looking at the firm’s “trading
activities and communications in connection with the
establishment of benchmark rates,” Goldman Sachs said in the
filing. The company “is cooperating with all such regulatory
investigations and reviews.”  At least eight banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  have said they’re being investigated by authorities
examining the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market and
are cooperating. Citigroup, JPMorgan and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  have
suspended or put on leave some of their most senior currency
traders amid the inquiry. No one has been accused of wrongdoing.  The U.S. Federal Reserve is examining legal and regulatory
exemptions that have allowed banks including Goldman Sachs to
trade and own raw materials such as oil, coal and metals, a
person with knowledge of the matter said last month.  Legal Losses  In August, a programming error caused Goldman Sachs to send
faulty stock-options orders. An internal system inadvertently
produced orders with inaccurate price limits and sent them to
exchanges, a person familiar with the situation said at the
time. Most of the trades caused by the error were canceled, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Goldman Sachs said the next month that R. Martin Chavez,
co-head of the firm’s equities trading division, will take over
leading the firm’s technology division from Steven Scopellite,
who’s retiring.  The firm also disclosed today that it’s “reasonably
possible” legal losses rose to $4 billion in the third quarter.
The figure, which represents an estimate of how much legal costs
may exceed reserves, increased from $3.5 billion in the second
quarter and compares to $5.7 billion for JPMorgan and $5.1
billion for  Bank of America Corp .  Shared Information  Bloomberg News  reported in June that currency dealers in
the industry said they shared information about their positions
through instant messages, executed their own trades before
client orders and sought to manipulate the benchmark WM/Reuters
rates by pushing through trades before and during the 60-second
windows when the benchmarks are set.  The WM/Reuters rates determine what many pension funds and
money managers pay for their foreign exchange and are used by
index providers such as  FTSE Group  and  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  to calculate
daily valuations of indexes that span multiple currencies. Even
small movements could affect the value of what  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
estimates is $3.6 trillion in funds including pension and
savings accounts that track global indexes.  Because banks agree with clients to trade at the WM/Reuters
rates, regardless of later moves, dealers are at risk of losses
if the market moves against them.  The rates are published hourly for 160 currencies and half-hourly for the 21 most-traded. They reflect the median of all
trades in a minute-long period starting 30 seconds before the
beginning of each half-hour. Rates for less-widely traded
currencies are based on quotes during a two-minute window.  The data are collected and distributed by World Markets
Co., a unit of Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT) , and  Thomson
Reuters  Corp. Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg
News, competes with Thomson Reuters in providing news and
information as well as currency-trading systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  