-- Goldman Sees Lira Nearing Yapi Kredi Danger Zone: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-11-08T10:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/goldman-sees-lira-nearing-yapi-kredi-danger-zone-turkey-credit.html
Turkish lender Yapi & Kredi Bankasi
AS says companies would struggle to repay foreign-currency debt
were the lira to depreciate at least 20 percent, a level Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. predicts it will approach next year.  The lira will fall to 2.4 per dollar in 12 months, about 15
percent from yesterday’s rate, a Goldman Sachs report on Nov. 4
said. Yapi Kredi Chief Financial Officer Marco Iannaccone said
the same day a drop of 20 percent to 30 percent would
“significantly impair corporates’ ability to service” their
foreign-exchange debt. About 40 percent of business lending in
Turkey is in foreign currencies, compared with 24 percent in
 Poland  and 50 percent in  Hungary .  Turkey’s current-account  imbalances  are unsustainable and
the exchange rate is the “main adjustment channel,” Goldman
Sachs said. While Yapi Kredi expects only a “slight
deterioration” in asset quality next year, “this will depend
very much on the evolution of the exchange ratio,” Chief
Executive Officer Faik Acikalin said this week on a conference
call to discuss the company’s earnings.  The lira decline next year is “not too far off from the
one we saw in 2011,”  Ahmet Akarli , a London-based economist at
Goldman Sachs and co-author of the report, said by e-mail on
Nov. 6. “If we are right, this would help rebalance the
economy.”  Lira Slides  The lira depreciated 18 percent against the dollar in 2011,
the worst performing currency worldwide, as Turkey’s  current-account deficit  swelled to about 10 percent of gross domestic
product. The currency has lost 12 percent this year.  Turkey had total foreign-exchange liabilities of about $600
billion in August, about half of which was short-term debt and
portfolio inflows, according to data on the central bank’s
website. The current-account deficit will probably climb to 7
percent of GDP next year from 6.9 percent in 2013, according to
Bloomberg surveys.  “Turkey’s imbalances are ultimately unsustainable” and
“the economy will go through a significant adjustment over the
next few years,” Akarli and Mark Ozerov at Goldman Sachs in
 London  said in their report. “The macro adjustment that is
needed will likely be fairly large and can potentially be very
costly,” and “ultimately, the exchange rate will continue to
serve as the main adjustment channel,” they said.  Lira Gains  Turkey’s currency gained for the second day against the
dollar today, strengthening 0.3 percent to 2.0292 at 12:40 p.m.
in Istanbul. It rose 1.1 percent per euro yesterday after the
European Central Bank unexpectedly cut interest rates. In the
U.S., the Federal Reserve probably won’t reduce the pace of bond
purchases until March, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists conducted Oct. 17-18.  Goldman Sachs sees the lira weakening 3.2 percent to 2.1
per dollar in three months, reaching 2.2 in six months, 2.4 in
12 months and 2.5 in 2015. Analysts in Bloomberg surveys predict
the currency will slip to 2.04 in the fourth quarter next year
before strengthening to 1.97 in 2015.  “Lira devaluation is exaggerated,” Carlo Vivaldi, deputy
CEO of Yapi Kredi Investment, said at a press conference in
Istanbul yesterday. “The risk of further devaluation is lower
than other emerging-market currencies. If the lira is devalued
30 percent, then we think it may be dangerous. Below that we
think it’s manageable.”  Bad Loans  While non-performing foreign-currency loans doubled the
last time the lira fell by 20 percent, the totals remained
relatively small, suggesting that Turkish corporates can
withstand some currency depreciation, according to William Jackson, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. The
lira will trade at 2.05 per dollar next year, he said.  Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci said on Oct. 31
that companies are managing their debt well and that he foresaw
no major problems with corporate borrowings. The chances were
higher of the lira appreciating than depreciating, he said.  Non-performing loans in the Turkish banking system rose 22
percent in the past year to 28 billion liras ($14 billion) as
lending increased 30 percent to 1 trillion liras, according to
data on the banking regulator’s website as of Oct. 25.  “A corporate foreign-exchange debt problem is a risk I
wouldn’t rule out,” Jackson said by e-mail yesterday.
“Historically, emerging-market lending booms on the scale seen
in  Turkey  over recent years have been followed by a
deterioration in loan portfolios.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net 
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  