-- Greenspan Says Yellen Was His Guide to Economics Research at Fed
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-11-07T02:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/greenspan-says-yellen-was-his-guide-to-economics-research-at-fed.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said that  Janet Yellen  would be a “great” chief of
the central bank and that he relied on her to explain the newest
academic research in economics while the two served together.  “She is an extraordinarily good economist,” Greenspan
said today at the  National Press Club  in Washington. “It was
very helpful to me because she was a professor and academic who
had very significant insights into where various new theories
were coming up and the like in academia.”  Yellen, who has been nominated to succeed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  after his term expires Jan. 31, would “be great, and I
can’t imagine that it would be otherwise,” said Greenspan, who
ran the central bank for more than 18 years. He spoke today
about his recent book, “The Map and the Territory: Risk, Human
Nature, and the Future of Forecasting.”  Greenspan, a private economist for much of his career, said
he couldn’t keep up with the latest academic research, and that
he came to depend on Yellen’s guidance after she joined the
central bank as a governor in 1994 and later when she was San
Francisco Fed president. Yellen had previously been an economics
professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley.  “There were a lot of theories that had been developed when
I never had time to watch them, which I never really followed
very closely, and I didn’t quite understand,” Greenspan said.
“I used to go to Janet and ask her, ‘explain this to me or that
to me’ and I think she was terribly helpful.”  Greenspan, 87, said it would be “extraordinary and
wonderful” for the central bank to have its first female chief
in its 100-year history.  He added that Yellen, who would have to chart the exit from
the Fed asset-purchase program that’s pushed its balance sheet
to a record  $3.84 trillion , “is going to have a very tough set
of problems, and I think she knows it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  