-- IBM’s CFO Who Helped Profit-Goal Push to Retire This Year
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-11-08T21:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/ibm-s-finance-chief-mark-loughridge-to-retire-at-end-of-year.html
International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge, who helped the company
maintain its relentless profit goals during his decade on the
job, will retire at the end of the year.  Martin Schroeter, 49, general manager of IBM’s global
financing, will succeed Loughridge on Jan. 1, the Armonk, New
York-based company said in a  statement  yesterday.  Loughridge, the longest-serving CFO in IBM’s 102-year
history, managed the company’s finances as it shifted to high-margin products -- an effort to steadily increase profits at the
cost of sales growth. Even as  revenue  has stalled, IBM remains
on target for earnings of $20 a share in 2015. Loughridge, who
will be 60 when he retires, joined the company in 1977.  “The organic growth has been non-existent,” said Ivan Feinseth, chief investment officer at Tigress Financial
Partners, who doesn’t own IBM shares. “Overall the company has
to transition and evolve. The CEO has to drive and Martin is
going to have to navigate.”  Schroeter will be stepping into the new position after six
reported quarters of falling sales and a loss in the company’s
hardware business in the first nine months of $713 million.
Meanwhile, IBM’s traditional growth markets business --
developing economies overseas, including  China  -- posted its
first revenue decrease in its history in the three months-ended
in September.  Cloud Computing  To make up for the slowdown, the company is looking to
cloud computing -- the delivery of software and sales online. It
generated more than $1 billion in revenue from cloud products
and services in the third quarter. IBM has also sold less-profitable businesses, acquired more lucrative software
companies and lowered its  tax rate .  As the stock has dropped this year, Chief Executive Officer
Ginni Rometty is rewarding shareholders who have held on. Last
month the board authorized an additional $15 billion to IBM’s
 buyback  plan, bringing the total to $20.6 billion, as the
company reduces stock in circulation to increase earnings per
share.  IBM shares fell less than 1 percent to $179.99 at the close
in  New York . The stock has fallen 6 percent this year, compared
with a 24 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Schroeter, who has been at IBM since 1992, was treasurer
from 2007 to 2011, before taking on his current post, the job
Loughridge held before becoming CFO. Schroeter’s experience has
prepared him for the executive position, Andrew Bartels, an
analyst at  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR) , said.  “Martin has the same set of skills to play that roll,”
Bartels said. “It’s a logical up-step for him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  