-- Michelin Names 69 Value-for-Money Restaurants in Chicago
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-11-07T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/michelin-names-69-value-for-money-restaurants-in-chicago.html
Michelin today names 69  Chicago  area
restaurants offering value for money, including a suburban
establishment that hires and trains people coming out of
homelessness.  Found  Kitchen and Social House serves rustic American
dishes such as braised pork with spaghetti squash and mustard
greens. It’s one of 21 new winners of a Bib Gourmand this year.  Others include Arami,  ATK ,  Autre Monde ,  BellyQ , County, Fat
Rice, Gather, Homestyle Taste, Hopleaf, Juno, Kama Indian
Bistro, Kurah, Libertad, Lula Cafe, Mana Food Bar, Mercat a la
Planxa, Mott St., Nabuki, Sushi Dokku and TAC Quick.  The Bib Gourmand winners “are located throughout Chicago’s
downtown neighborhoods and surrounding suburbs and represent a
diverse range of 22 different cuisines,” Michelin said in an e-mailed release. The award goes to venues serving two courses and
a glass of wine or dessert for $40 or less, plus tax and tip.  Today’s selection comes before next week’s release of the
Michelin Guide to Chicago, the French company said.  “Found’s social mission, to hire and train people coming
out of homelessness as a stepping stone to living more
independent lives, is fundamental to our philosophy,” according
to that restaurant’s website.  Michelin & Cie (ML) , Europe’s largest tiremaker, produced its
first guide in 1900. It was free of charge until 1920 and
intended for chauffeurs. The volume contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on repairing tires.
The company is based in Clermont-Ferrand,  France .  Michelin named the following Bib Gourmand winners:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Jason Harper 
on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology,  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene
Last Night and  Katya Kazakina  on art auctions.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in New York at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 