-- Michelin Germany Awards Third Star to Christian Juergens
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-11-07T13:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/michelin-germany-awards-third-star-to-christian-juergens.html
Michelin today awarded a third star
to  Ueberfahrt Christian Juergens , a restaurant on the shores of
the Tegernsee lake in Bavaria,  Germany .  The hotel-based  restaurant  offers a tasting menu of 199
euros ($269) per person with courses that include a dish
comprising fried egg, langoustine, chanterelles, peas and ham,
and another with bay leaves, artichoke, sardines, tomato and
poached fish.  Juergens’s cuisine “is very refined and extremely
intelligent,” Michael Ellis, the director of the Michelin
guides, said in a release on the 2014 guide to Germany. “His
very subtle contrasts in flavor are his distinguishing
feature.”  The award brings the number of three-star eateries in
Germany to a record 11, ranking the nation second only to  France 
in Europe for gourmet dining.  Michelin also awarded three restaurants a second star: the
Tiger-Gourmet in  Frankfurt , Facil in  Berlin , and Schlossberg in
Baiersbronn.  It gave 39 establishments one star, including two opened by
foreigners in Berlin: Les Soloistes by Pierre Gagnaire in the
Waldorf Astoria hotel, and 5-Cinco by Paco Perez.  “With its multicultural character, Berlin is increasingly
developing into a culinary center in Europe and is also
attracting chefs from abroad,” Michelin said in the release.  Twenty restaurants lost a star.  Michelin & Cie. (ML) , Europe’s largest tiremaker, produced its
first guide in August 1900, intended for chauffeurs. The guide
contained practical information, including street maps and tips
on using and repairing tires.  “Michelin Guide Deutschland 2014” will go on sale in
Germany on Nov. 8 and sell for 29.95 euros in Germany or 30.80
euros in  Austria .  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Jason Harper 
on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology,  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene
Last Night and  Katya Kazakina  on art auctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 