-- Insurers May Fund More Infrastructure, BearingPoint Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-11-07T12:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/insurers-may-fund-more-infrastructure-bearingpoint-says.html
Insurers and pension funds should
increase investment in infrastructure debt to finance the
building of bridges and roads and mitigate lower returns from
 government bonds , BearingPoint Inc. said.  “As regulatory changes cause banks to pull back from
infrastructure investment, an attractive space is opening for a
third party,” the U.S. consulting company said in a  report 
published on its website today. “Institutional investors such
as insurers appear ready to seize the opportunity.”  Insurers are working to maintain returns on bond holdings
as stimulus efforts by central banks keep  interest rates  at low
levels.  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, held 456 billion
euros ($616 billion) of fixed-income  investments  at its
insurance business as of June 30. That’s 90 percent of a
portfolio that also includes equities and real estate.  Insurers and pension funds need investments that meet their
commitments on returns to clients and shareholders, BearingPoint
said. Infrastructure debt would offer “a way out, as it comes
with very attractive margins and allows insurers to shape the
duration so that they can reduce capital costs,” according to
the report.  Meanwhile, banks are reducing their long-term financing of
infrastructure projects because they are constrained by Basel
III regulatory requirements, according to BearingPoint’s survey
of 55 banks, asset managers and institutional investors.  “A majority of banks and asset managers felt that, for
future projects banks will mostly provide short-term financing
for the construction phase of an asset, selling the debt to
institutional investors after the asset has established a track
record,” the consulting firm said.  Alternative Assets  To reduce dependency on government debt investments,
European insurers have already flocked to alternative asset
classes such as infrastructure.  Allianz, based in Munich, is increasing investment in
corporate debt issued by industrial companies and infrastructure
projects ranging from wind parks in northern  France  to parking
meters in  Chicago , Michael Diekmann, chief executive officer
said last month.  France’s  Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s second-biggest insurer, has also
been increasing bets on corporate bonds and infrastructure debt,
helping hold the company’s portfolio yield steady, CEO Henri de Castries said in September.  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the biggest manager of U.K.
pension assets, could invest 15 billion pounds ($24 billion) in
infrastructure if the government revised its planning and energy
policies, Chief Executive Officer Nigel Wilson said in an
interview in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  