-- Investment-Grade ETF Uses Interest-Rate Hedge to Lure Investors
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-11-07T17:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/investment-grade-etf-uses-interest-rate-hedge-to-lure-investors.html
A new investment-grade bond exchange-traded fund from ProShare Advisors LLC is embedding interest-rate protection to accommodate investors who expect rates to
rise as the Federal Reserve curbs its unprecedented stimulus.  U.S. government bond futures will be used to hedge against
rising interest rates in the ProShares Investment Grade-Interest
Rate Hedged ETF, which will aim for zero duration, Bethesda,
Maryland-based ProShares said in a statement distributed by
 Business Wire  today. The ETF will trade under the ticker  IGHG. (IGHG) 
ETFs, which are listed on exchanges and are bought and sold like
stocks, typically allow individual investors to speculate on
securities without directly owning them.  “Investors have been fleeing long-term bond funds as
concerns grow over losses that might result from rising interest
rates,” Michael Sapir, chief executive officer of ProShare
Advisors, said in the release. “While many investors have moved
to shorter duration bond funds to lessen the impact of rising
rates, they remain exposed to some interest rate risk.”  The ETF follows a high-yield version announced in May,
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that sustainable labor-market progress could prompt the central bank to reduce its so-called quantitative easing program that’s bolstered credit
markets, prompting concerns that a three-decade rally in bonds
was poised to end.  Average investment-grade corporate bond yields fell to a
record low of 2.65 percent on May 2 and ended yesterday at 3.27
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate Index. The Fed will begin to curb its accommodative
policy in March, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists
conducted Oct. 17-18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  