-- Iran Loses Nuclear Leverage as World Ignores Export Drop
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2013-11-07T13:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/iran-loses-nuclear-leverage-as-world-ignores-export-drop.html
Iran ’s new government enters nuclear
negotiations today with limited economic leverage, seeking
relief from oil sanctions that have squeezed as much as $5
billion a month from its revenues as the world has found other
suppliers.  Since the U.S. and the European Union imposed sanctions on
Iran’s oil sales in July 2012 as punishment for illicit nuclear
work, higher production in the U.S., Saudi Arabia and  Iraq  has
offset the loss of more than 1 million barrels a day in Iranian
exports. As U.S.  consumers  pay $3.23 a gallon for gasoline,
almost a dime less than when sanctions took effect, Iran’s
economy will contract 1.5 percent this year after shrinking 1.9
percent in 2012, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates.  “Right now, Iran needs to sell its oil far more than the
rest of the world needs to buy it,”  Trevor Houser , a partner at
the Rhodium Group LLC, a New York-based economic research firm,
said in an interview. “If sanctions were suddenly lifted, I
could see a sharp drop in global  oil prices , but I think it’s
highly unlikely that we’re going to see sanctions removed that
quickly. Sanctions are much harder to remove than to enact.”  ‘Serious Phase’  As talks resumed today in Geneva between Iran and six world
powers -- the U.S., the U.K., France, Germany,  China  and Russia
-- both sides said a deal was within reach. After a decade of
on-off negotiations, EU spokesman  Michael Mann  said today talks
with Iran’s new government had entered a “serious phase” and
sanctions may be modified when Iran makes concrete changes to
its atomic work.  Even in a strained economic environment, Iran’s leaders
and many of its people oppose abandoning nuclear development
altogether. While 85 percent of Iranians say international
sanctions have damaged their livelihoods, and half say they’ve
been hurt a great deal, more than two-thirds support their
country’s development of nuclear power, according to a Gallup
Inc.  poll  released yesterday.  Iran says its atomic program is for civilian energy and
medical use, and it insists it has a right to enrich uranium for
peaceful purposes. The U.S. and its allies say Iran is covertly
seeking a nuclear-weapons capability.  Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani, who took office in August,
campaigned on a pledge to improve his country’s battered economy
and his government has set a one-year goal to address
international concerns about  Iran’s nuclear program  and win
relief from sanctions.  ‘Sanctions Relief’  “Iran’s primary goal in these talks is to get sanctions
relief and to get it soon” and not in a “temporary way,” said
Suzanne Maloney, an Iran analyst at the  Brookings Institution  in
 Washington . “The question is whether or not Iran can or will
accept the price that we are willing to pay.”  The U.S. is ready to offer limited, targeted relief from
sanctions in return for Iran suspending elements of its nuclear
work, a senior U.S. official at the talks said, asking not to be
identified because negotiations are confidential. The U.S. is
seeking a first step toward a comprehensive accord and would
initially leave major curbs on Iran’s trade in place, the
official said.  Previously, Iran’s leaders have refused to make nuclear
concessions, dismissing sanctions as a temporary inconvenience
in a world dependent on Iranian oil. That’s a tougher case to
make today.  Revenue Decline  Iran has dropped to sixth place from second among producers
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Oil
revenue -- the main source of Iranian government funds -- fell
to $69 billion in 2012 from $95 billion a year earlier,
according to the U.S.  Energy Information Administration .  U.S. production, driven by a boom in shale oil, has
increased by 1.8 million barrels a day since sanctions went into
force, EIA data show. That more than makes up for the fact that
Iran is pumping 565,000 fewer barrels, according to a Bloomberg
survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts. A drop in
America’s reliance on  imports  means tankers from the  Middle East 
and West Africa can instead head to  Asia , replacing Iranian
crude.  “The factors allowing global oil markets to adjust to
taking 1 million barrels per day of Iranian oil off the market
include production increases in the U.S., Saudi Arabia and
Iraq,” Amos Hochstein, U.S. deputy assistant secretary of state
for energy diplomacy, said in an interview. “Additionally,
demand has remained flat in the EU and slowed in China and
 India .”  Market Share  Before the U.S. and EU sanctions, Iran sold oil to 23
nations. Today, only six buyers remain -- China, India, South
Korea, Japan,  Turkey  and  Taiwan . To avoid U.S. sanctions that
would cut off access to the American banking system, each must
prove it has made additional significant reductions in its
imports every six months.  Iran has lost market share that it’s not likely to reclaim
easily “because the world economy moves on,” said Ray Takeyh,
a fellow at the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations and
former senior adviser on Iran under Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  Iran’s push to restore its supplies may be met with
ambivalence from its OPEC colleagues, which need oil revenue to
pay for domestic programs to stave off unrest that has roiled
Egypt, Libya, Algeria and Syria, said  Michael Lynch , president
of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts. A flood of Iranian crude into the market could
depress prices and force OPEC to cut production quotas.  Congressional Pressure  On the other hand, steps to ease sanctions would meet
opposition in the U.S. from members of Congress who say
additional steps to crimp the Iranian economy are needed to
persuade Iran to give up ambitions of obtaining nuclear weapons.
President  Barack Obama ’s administration is urging lawmakers to
hold off on new sanctions to give negotiations a chance.  “Continuing sanctions or adding more won’t make them
capitulate,” said Hooshang Amirahmadi, a professor at  Rutgers
University  in New Jersey and president of the American-Iranian
Council. “On the contrary, more sanctions will pave the way
either to a military attack or a nuclear-armed Iran.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Geneva at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  