-- Little Guys Said Tossed Aside as Contractors Absorb Cuts
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-11-07T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/little-guys-said-tossed-aside-as-contractors-absorb-cuts.html
Computer Frontiers Inc.’s owner
thought she’d gotten a break when Stanley Inc. agreed to team up
with the small technology company in the U.S. government market.  Instead, Barbara Keating says she feels betrayed. Canada’s
 CGI Group Inc. (GIB/A) , after buying Stanley, touted the relationship to
win orders in the past three years under a State Department
visa-processing contract valued at as much as $2.8 billion. Then
it mostly cut the small business out of the deal, sending some
work overseas, according to a federal lawsuit.  “We were a big part of winning the contract,” Keating
said in a phone interview. “We definitely thought we’d all grow
together because of this relationship. But that obviously didn’t
happen.”  Large companies are increasingly reducing subcontractors’
roles to help cope with $1.2 trillion in automatic federal
spending cuts that began in March, according to attorneys and
contracting specialists. Those grievances have reached U.S.
officials, who want to know when vendors won’t be working with
small businesses that helped them get the work.  “We went to many different parts of the country and met
with companies, and in almost every city there was someone that
said this was an issue,” said Ken Dodds, director of policy,
planning and liaison for the U.S. Small Business Administration.  The Small Business Jobs Act of 2010 demanded that the
government start requiring contractors that operate under a
subcontracting plan to notify agencies when they’re not using
small businesses that were part of their bids, Dodds said. A
regulation to implement that part of the law hasn’t been
approved.  More Complaints  CGI has “fully satisfied its contractual obligations” to
Computer Frontiers, said Linda Odorisio, a spokeswoman for the
Montreal-based company. The small business’s subcontract with
CGI expired in February 2012, Odorisio said. CGI is one of the
main vendors on the U.S. government’s flawed health exchange.  Attorneys and contracting specialists say they’re seeing
more small businesses complain about bigger companies.  “They may give work to a more preferred subcontractor or a
more qualified subcontractor -- or just someone the contractor
likes,” said Mark Amtower, who runs a government contracts
consulting company in Clarksville,  Maryland . “Some larger
companies are better than others but all are guilty to some
degree.”  With many U.S. agencies’ budgets contracting, “the
incidence of this is getting much higher,” Amtower said in a
phone interview.  Budget Cuts  When federal agencies began cutting, some prime, or direct,
contractors started moving more work in-house instead of sending
it to subcontractors, said Hope Lane, a partner at Aronson LLC
in Rockville, Maryland, who leads the company’s government
contracts consulting practice.  “All of a sudden primes have people available that they
don’t want to keep on the bench,” Lane said in a phone
interview.  Large vendors have an incentive to advertise relationships
with small companies when competing for work. U.S. agencies
frequently seek contractors that pledge to work with small
businesses, especially those owned by disabled veterans,
minorities or women.  Many subcontractors don’t want to take their disputes to
court, said  Larry Allen , president of Allen Federal Business
Partners, a McLean, Virginia-based consulting company.  “You sue with caution as a small business subcontractor,”
Allen said in a phone interview. “Just as large business prime
vendors can develop a reputation for not being fair, so, too,
can small business subcontractors get a reputation for being a
pain in the ankle.”  Mentor Programs  Some companies have taken the risk.  Ginmar Corporate Promotions Inc., a small business owned by
a black woman, in 2008 filed a federal lawsuit against  Cardinal
Health Inc. (CAH)  Ginmar, based in  Chicago , claimed it had joined the
medical supply company’s mentor-protégé program, which helped
Cardinal win federal contracts, and was then shut out of some
sales.  The case against Dublin, Ohio-based Cardinal was dismissed.  Deb Mitchell, a spokeswoman for Cardinal Health, declined
in an e-mail to comment on the outcome of the lawsuit.  “We’re proud of our continuing commitment to developing
long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with diverse
suppliers,” Mitchell said.  For small businesses, the lawsuits can be “tough fights”
because large companies have much deeper pockets, said Tom
Craig, a partner with Fluet Huber + Hoang Pllc, which is based
Woodbridge, Virginia. The  law firm  represent Computer Frontiers.  “The resource mismatch is really phenomenal,” Craig said.
“Larger vendors have a lot more room to fight, and frankly, I
think they sometimes bet on that.”  Last Resort  The lawsuit filed by Frederick, Maryland-based Computer
Frontiers was a last resort, said Lee Dougherty, another partner
at Fluet Huber.  The small business sued after receiving less than 1 percent
of the estimated $150 million that CGI has received through the
contract, Dougherty said. CGI didn’t abide by an agreement to
share 9 percent of the orders tied to the visa-processing
contract, according to the lawsuit filed last month in
Alexandria, Virginia.  “This contract was won using our client’s experience, our
client’s size and our client’s past performance on this type of
work,” Dougherty, chairman of the government contracts practice
group, said in a phone interview. “For a Canadian company to
use all of that to win a U.S. contract, and then not utilize the
company that won them the work, is essentially a bait and switch
on the government.”  CGI Acquisition  Computer Frontiers had at least one staff person working on
the bid at Stanley’s offices most days in the year before the
contract was awarded, Keating, the small business owner, said in
a phone interview. It wrote parts of the proposal, suggested
technology solutions and helped develop strategy, she said.  CGI bought Stanley in August 2010, six months after the
State Department’s visa contract was awarded, for about $1.05
billion.  CGI assumed Stanley’s role as mentor to Keating’s Computer
Frontiers through a State Department program, according to the
suit.  Federal agencies use mentor-protégé programs to help boost
small businesses. The State Department program encourages large
contractors to help the companies through training and business-planning tips, among other help.  Computer Frontiers never received any such guidance from
CGI, Keating said.  “There were no meetings,” she said. “Nothing occurred
except we filed annual reports to the State Department.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  