-- Jaguar to Air First Super Bowl Ad in Push for New F-Type
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-11-07T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/jaguar-to-air-first-super-bowl-ad-in-push-for-new-f-type.html
Jaguar plans to run its first Super
Bowl ad, as the luxury-car maker touts its new F-Type coupe
during the National Football League’s February championship game
that draws more than 100 million viewers.  The car is being introduced at auto shows in Los Angeles
and Tokyo this month. Jaguar, owned by  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , saw its
U.S. sales more than double last month and gain 36 percent to
13,962 this year through October.  “For the first time ever we’ll be bringing the Jaguar
brand to the biggest marketing platform in the world,” Jeff
Curry, a vice president of Jaguar North America, said today at a
presentation in New York to announce the ad.  Jaguar is broadening its product line and improving its
quality to win back U.S. consumers. The brand sells five models
in the market, starting with the XF sedan, which has a base
price of $46,975. Tata, based in Mumbai, acquired Jaguar and
 Land Rover , a maker of luxury sport-utility vehicles, from Ford
Motor Co. in 2008.  The 30-second spot, which will play off the history of
Britons as villains in movies and on television, is scheduled to
air in the second half of the Feb. 2 game. The ad is being
filmed in London by director  Tom Hooper , whose recent credits
include the movies “The King’s Speech” and “Les Miserables”
and the HBO miniseries “ John Adams .”  The game will be on Twenty-First Century Fox Inc.’s
broadcast network. In February of this year, the Super Bowl
shown by CBS Corp.’s network drew almost 109 million viewers, as
the Baltimore Ravens defeated the  San Francisco 49ers  in a game
interrupted by a 34-minute  power failure . The two previous Super
Bowls each drew about 111 million viewers.  CBS charged advertisers an average of $3.75 million for a
30-second Super Bowl commercial, 7.1 percent more than a year
earlier, according to industry researcher Kantar Media.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  