-- Janssen Pleads Guilty to Selling Risperdal Off-Label
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-11-07T22:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/janssen-pleads-guilty-to-selling-risperdal-off-label.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Janssen unit
pleaded guilty to misbranding its anti-psychotic medication
Risperdal as part of a $2.2 billion settlement with U.S.
prosecutors, the largest for a single drug.  The company, based in Titusville, New Jersey, entered the
guilty plea today to one misdemeanor at a hearing before U.S.
District Judge Timothy Savage in Philadelphia.  “Did Janssen do what the government said it did?” Savage
asked a lawyer for Johnson & Johnson during the hourlong
hearing.  “Yes your honor,” Joseph Braunreuther, J&J’s deputy
general counsel, replied before entering the plea on Janssen’s
behalf.  The $2.2 billion settlement, the government’s third-largest
with a pharmaceutical company and the result of whistle-blower
suits, includes $1.6 billion in civil payments to the U.S. and
45 states for Risperdal and two other drugs. Under Janssen’s
plea agreement announced Nov. 4, the unit will pay a $334
million fine and forfeit $66 million.  Janssen pleaded guilty to marketing the drug to elderly
patients with dementia for uses not approved by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration. The company settled civil claims that
it marketed Risperdal without approval for the elderly, children
and the mentally disabled, and that it paid kickbacks to
physicians and  Omnicare Inc. (OCR) , the largest pharmacy for nursing
homes. Janssen has denied the civil allegations.  ‘Calculated Manner’  Janssen allegedly sought to sell Risperdal, which was
approved by the FDA in 1993 for the management of psychotic
disorders, for a wide range of off-label treatments including
bipolar disorder, dementia and mood and anxiety disorders,
according to a criminal information filed Nov. 4.  The company acted in a “calculated manner” with intent to
“maximize profits with no regard to risk,” Savage said before
approving the terms of the plea agreement.  Janssen pleaded guilty to conduct from March 2002 to
December 2003, although the scope of the off-label marketing is
broader than that timeframe, prosecutors said today.
Negotiations over the criminal plea took more than a year,
Richard Scheff, an attorney for Janssen, told Savage today.  The settlement is the largest in U.S. history involving a
single drug, U.S. Attorney Zane Memeger in Philadelphia said
today after the hearing. It’s the result of four lawsuits filed
in federal court in Philadelphia by whistle-blowers under the
False Claims Act, which allow private citizens to sue on behalf
of the government and share in the recoveries. The Justice
Department joined those cases.  ‘Accepts Accountability’  J&J, the world’s largest seller of health-care products,
said on Nov. 4 that the settlement brings closure to a complex
legal case spanning almost a decade.  While Janssen “accepts accountability” for the actions
described in the guilty plea, the company denies liability or
wrongdoing in the civil settlement, J&J said.  As part of the settlement, New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
J&J signed a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the
inspector general of the Department of Health and Human
Services. It lets J&J recoup bonuses and other long-term
incentives for those engaged in “significant misconduct.”  “This company is going to be under a magnifying glass for
a period of time,” Savage said.  Biggest Seller  Risperdal was once J&J’s biggest seller, generating
worldwide sales of $24.2 billion from 2003 to 2010. Sales peaked
at $4.5 billion in 2007 before declining when J&J lost patent
protection on the drug. The medication has been linked to
excessive weight gain and diabetes.  The U.S. government has been probing Risperdal sales
practices since 2004, including allegations the company marketed
the drug for unapproved uses.  The company targeted elderly patients beginning in 1998
when it started an ElderCare sales force that promoted the
medication to nursing homes, according to plea documents filed
in the case. By 1999, a marketing campaign titled “Hostile
Outside, Fragile Inside,” triggered criticism from the FDA as
“misleading” for using material that implied Risperdal was
found to be safe and effective for the elderly when in fact  the
elderly hadn’t been specifically studied in clinical trials,
according to prosecutors.  The drug was later approved for other uses, including for
children in 2006.  J&J fell 35 cents to $92.6 at 4:15 p.m. in New York.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Janssen Pharmaceuticals, 13-cr-00605, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania 
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia at  spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  