-- Japanese Households Without Savings Climb to Most Since ’63
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   C h i k a k o   M o g i
-- 2013-11-08T04:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/japanese-households-without-savings-climb-to-highest-since-63.html
The share of Japanese households with
no financial assets rose to a record as falling incomes forced
people to dig into their savings, highlighting the potential for
widening disparities under Abenomics.  The proportion reached 31 percent, according to a Bank of
Japan  survey  released in  Tokyo  yesterday, up from 26 percent a
year earlier and the highest since the poll began in 1963. The
BOJ surveyed 8,000 households of two or more people aged 20
years or older from June 14 though July 23.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe needs to convince companies to
drive up workers’ pay, so that he can sustain an economic
recovery jump-started by fiscal and monetary stimulus and
maintain public support. Already facing declines in wages,
households will be hit in April by a consumption-tax increase
intended to shore up Japan’s finances.  “It’s critical that Abe succeed in convincing corporates
to raise wages,” said Izumi Devalier, a Hong Kong-based
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Lower-income households may
come to feel they’re getting the short end of the stick from
Abenomics.”  Among households whose assets fell, 40.9 percent said that
declining regular income forced them to draw down their savings
-- the top explanation.  Japan ’s salaries extended the longest
slide since 2010 in September, with regular wages excluding
overtime and bonuses falling 0.3 percent from a year earlier, a
16th straight drop.  ’Grim’ Situation  The Topix index fell 0.9 percent at 1:12 p.m. in Tokyo
today, headed for a one-month low as stronger U.S. economic
growth fueled bets the Federal Reserve may cut stimulus sooner
than expected. The yen was little changed at 98.10 against the
dollar.  “The survey shows a grim wage situation,” said Akiyoshi Takumori, chief economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management
Co. in Tokyo. “Now some companies are hinting at higher
salaries so we may see a better result next year.”  The deterioration in household financial strength serves as
a reminder of Japan’s challenges just as concerns rise that the
Abe administration will limit the magnitude of structural
reforms in its self-described growth strategy.  The health ministry this week decided that a bill on
Internet sales of over-the-counter drugs should exclude certain
medicines. This drew criticism from Hiroshi Mikitani, the
billionaire head of online retailer  Rakuten Inc. (4755) , who said Nov.
6 that he would take legal action if the legislation becomes
law, and leave a key government panel on industrial
competitiveness.  ’Major Reversal’  Robert Feldman, head of Japan economic research at Morgan
Stanley MUFG Securities Co., said the health ministry’s decision
is a “major reversal for Abenomics.”  “Without quick and decisive leadership from Abe himself,
there is a higher risk that Abenomics will fail,” Feldman wrote
in an e-mailed note yesterday. “Markets could start to reflect
this risk soon.”  The policies dubbed Abenomics have weakened the yen,
boosted exporters and fueled an almost 60 percent gain in the
Topix Index in the past year.  Even so, income disparities could widen. Households with
financial assets saw their average value increase to 16.45
million yen ($167,000) from 15.39 million yen a year earlier,
the survey showed. Stocks accounted for 8.3 percent of assets,
up from 5.6 percent in 2012.  The average value of financial assets held by all Japanese
households fell to 11.01 million yen from 11.08 million yen.  Households appear to be less interested in deposits and
more interested in risk assets, Nomura Securities Co. analysts
said in a report on the data yesterday.  “That said, their interest in risk assets is still lower
than in 2000 or 2005–07, when the equity markets were strong,
and we think the increase in individual investors’ risk
tolerance is in its early stages,” said the Nomura analysts led
by Hiromichi Tamura.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Chikako Mogi in Tokyo at 
 cmogi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  