-- Jet Lessor AWAS Seeks Increase in Debt Before Terra Firma Exit
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-11-07T13:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/jet-lessor-awas-seeks-increase-in-debt-before-terra-firma-exit.html
AWAS Aviation Capital Ltd., an Irish
aircraft lessor with more than 260 jets, may turn to  capital
markets  or bank lending to increase its pool of money available
for plane purchases before its private-equity owner exits.  “We have more work to do on the debt side” as the company
tries to boost returns, Ray Sisson, president and chief
executive officer of the Dublin-based leasing company, said in
an interview. The business is under-leveraged compared to rivals
and has too much cash on its balance sheet, he said.  Owner Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., which acquired
AWAS in 2006, will seek to exit by March 2016 through a
strategic sale or initial public offering, Sisson said. The IPO
process could kick off next year if that’s the chosen route.  Avolon, a three-year-old lessor owned by Oak Hill  Capital
Partners , Cinven Ltd., CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and  Singapore ,
said last month it would seek a buyer or pursue an IPO. The
company was encouraged by Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.’s
$7.3 billion purchase of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
aviation division, CEO Domhnal Slattery said at the time.  Sisson has changed AWAS’s focus since taking over the
leasing company in 2010 to focus on higher-yield transactions by
providing used aircraft to financially weaker carriers.  The company has also shifted its purchasing strategy away
from buying new aircraft from planemakers such as Airbus SAS and
Boeing Co. to acquiring jets from other lessors. “We are very
aggressively buying from our competitors well ahead of our
target,” Sisson said.  The company may increasingly buy planes such as  Boeing (BA)  777-300ERs as the user base expands beyond carriers with high credit
ratings to those with lower ratings that can generate higher
lease rates, he said. Newer Airbus A321s also are of interest,
along with Boeing 737-800s and Airbus A330s the leasing company
has been collecting.  Sisson said the company’s debt to equity ratio is 1.7 to 1,
compared with competitors with levels of 2.5 to 1 or higher.  AWAS still has some orders placed with manufacturers that
will run out in late 2015 and not be refreshed, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  