-- JPMorgan Leads U.S. Banks Boosting Share of European Bond Market
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-11-07T09:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/jpmorgan-leads-u-s-banks-boosting-share-of-european-bond-market.html
U.S. banks increased their share of
 Europe ’s fixed-income market at the expense of local competitors
as trading volumes slid in 2013, Greenwich Associates said in an
annual survey report.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  retained its position as the biggest
secondary-market trader of European fixed-income products, with
a 12.8 percent market share, down from 13.3 percent in 2012,
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Greenwich said on its website today.
Second-placed  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s portion shrank to 10.5 percent
from 11.9 percent, while  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  increased its
share to 9.3 percent from 8.5 percent and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  had 7.7
percent, up from about 6 percent.  Investors reported reduced liquidity in bond markets in the
second half of 2013, according to Greenwich, as speculation that
the  Federal Reserve  would reduce the pace of its $85 billion of
monthly asset purchases damped demand.  UBS AG (UBSN)  exited most fixed-income markets, while other European banks scaled back to comply
with Basel III regulatory requirements, it said.  “It has become more difficult for many institutions to
execute trades, and our data suggest that they are reaching out
to new dealers in an attempt to source needed liquidity,” Peter D’Amario, a Greenwich Associate consultant, said in the report.  European banks are increasing the number of trading
counterparties to gain access to liquidity, according to
Greenwich. They averaged nine counterparties in this year’s
survey versus 8.4 in 2012. This increase benefited U.S banks and
European institutions including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Commerzbank AG,
Banca IMI SpA and Rabobank Groep, the Greenwich report said.  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest lender by assets, was
Greenwich’s 2013 “Quality Leader” in European fixed-income
trading, sales and overall service in rates products. JPMorgan
was the 2013 “Quality Leader” in European fixed-income
research and overall European service in credit products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  