-- Kerry Warns of New Uprising If Israel-Palestinian Talks Fail
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-11-07T18:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/kerry-warns-of-new-uprising-if-israeli-palestinian-talks-fail.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
warned  Israel  that failure to reach agreement in the current
round of peace talks could lead to a new Palestinian uprising.  “Does Israel want a third intifada?” Kerry said today in
a joint interview with Palestinian and Israeli television
reporters. “The alternative to getting back to the talks is the
potential of chaos.”  Kerry was interviewed in Jerusalem between trips to the
West Bank and Jordan as he shuttled from meetings with Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Palestinian President
 Mahmoud Abbas  in search of a peace deal. The top U.S. diplomat
brought the two sides together in late July for their first
formal negotiations in three years, setting a nine-month
deadline for the talks.  Kerry said Netanyahu risks looking like he’s not committed
to a peace agreement because of continued settlement
construction.  “If you say you’re working for peace and you want peace
and a Palestine that is a whole Palestine that belongs to the
people who live there, how can you say we’re planning to build
in the place that will eventually be Palestine?” Kerry said.
“It sends a message that somehow, perhaps you’re not really
serious.”  Netanyahu had no response to Kerry’s remarks, spokesman
 Mark Regev  said.  ‘Safe Today’  The secretary of state said he is still confident that an
agreement is possible and cautioned Israelis against growing
complacent.  “Israel says, ‘Oh, we feel safe today, we have a wall,
we’re not in a day-to-day conflict, we’re doing pretty well
economically,’” he said. “Well, I’ve got news for you. Today’s
status quo will not be tomorrow’s or next year’s. Because if we
don’t resolve this issue, the Arab world, the Palestinians,
neighbors, others are going to begin again to push in a
different way. And the last thing Israel wants to see is a
return to violence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  