-- Komercni Says Third-Quarter Net Fell on Interest Income
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-11-07T17:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/komercni-says-third-quarter-net-fell-on-interest-income.html
Komercni Banka AS, the Czech unit of
 Societe Generale SA (GLE) , said third-quarter profit fell 2 percent as
an environment of low rates hurt net interest income.  Net income for the three months ended Sept. 30 was 3.25
billion koruna ($170 million), from 3.32 billion koruna a year
earlier, the Prague-based lender said in a presentation on its
website today. Net interest income fell 3.1 percent to 5.29
billion koruna.  “While the Czech economy has entered a recovery phase,
this has not yet translated into accelerated growth in loan
volume,” Chief Executive Officer Albert Le Dirac’h said in a
regulatory statement. “There have been signs that corporations
are preparing new investments and that consumers’ appetite to
borrow is rising.”  The lender achieved “excellent” results in products like
mortgages and export financing, he said. Le Dirac’h took the
helm at the lender in August from predecessor Henri Bonnet, who
had led Komercni since June 2009.  Czech central bank approved unlimited koruna sales to ease
monetary policy today after inflation slowed to its lowest in 3
1/2 years. It also kept the benchmark  interest rate  at what it
calls a “technical zero” of 0.05 percent for an eighth
meeting.  Komercni rose as much 1.3 percent in Prague after the
central bank’s intervention announcement to a record before
ending the day unchanged.  Czech banks, which reported record profits in 2012, have
been suffering from pressures on interest income, their largest
source of revenue, because of record low interest rates.
Komercni’s competitor,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  unit Ceska
Sporitelna, said last week its nine-month net income declined
2.6 percent to 11.5 billion koruna.  Capital Adequacy  Komercni’s net income from fees and commissions rose 7.1
percent to 1.79 billion koruna in the third quarter from a year
earlier, while gains from financial operations added 5.9 percent
to 661 million, it said.  In terms of the new capital adequacy ratio requirements by
the central bank, Komercni is “fully” equipped with the
capital and has the capacity to payout 70 percent from its 2013
profit in dividends, Chief Financial Officer Libor Lofler said
in a meeting with journalists and analysts in  Prague  today.  The board proposes the dividend together with the full-year
results, which are scheduled for Feb. 12, according to its
website.  Foreign Demand  Future performance of the banking market will continue to
depend on the developments in major trading partner countries,
as business investments depend on foreign demand, Komercni said
in the presentation today.  “The results are in line with estimates,” Marek Hatlapatka, an analyst at Cyrrus AS, said by phone. “Slightly
worse banking income was compensated by the lower cost of
risks.” Hatlapatka has a “buy” recommendation under review.  Komercni reiterated full-year guidance of revenue declining
“just below” 6 percent from a year earlier, Lofler said today.
The executive confirmed the outlook for the full-year net
interest margin decline of between 3 to 5 basis points, even
though the lender has seen “stabilization” of the measure.  The total gross volume of loans provided by  Komercni Banka 
expanded by 2.9 percent to 475.7 billion koruna as of Sept. 30
from a year earlier, helped by mortgages and export credits,
Komercni said. Client deposits rose 4.8 percent to 592 billion
koruna from a year earlier, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  