-- Korean Won Touches One-Week High Before U.S. Data; Bonds Steady
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-11-07T02:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/korean-won-touches-one-week-high-before-u-s-data-bonds-steady.html
South Korea’s won touched a one-week
high ahead of U.S. data that may provide further clues as to
when the Federal Reserve will trim monetary stimulus that’s
buoyed demand for emerging-market assets.  Reports today and tomorrow will show U.S. economic growth
slowed in the third quarter and employers hired fewer workers
last month, according to Bloomberg surveys. The Fed will delay
tapering until March as it awaits clearer signs of a recovery,
according to Daishin Economy Research Institute in  Seoul . While
global funds sold Korean stocks this week they bought a net 5.3
trillion won ($5 billion) in October and pulled 2.5 trillion won
from bonds, data from the Financial Supervisory Service shows.  “Investors are waiting for U.S. gross domestic product and
jobs data to determine the Fed’s stimulus exit strategy,” said
Hong Seok Chan, a currency analyst at Daishin Economy Research.
“Foreign investors have sold stocks and bonds recently,
although it’s too early to say they indicate outflows regarding
concerns with the Fed.”  The won was little changed at 1,060.38 per dollar as of
11:11 a.m. in Seoul after rising 0.1 percent to 1,059.68
earlier, the strongest level since Oct. 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It climbed 5.5 percent over the past
three months, the best performance among Asia’s 11 most-active
currencies.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, held at 6.24
percent. Local financial markets opened an hour later than usual
today due to national college entrance exams.  Won Outlook  South Korea’s economy is showing stronger signs of recovery
from factory output to exports, the finance ministry said in a
monthly report today, adding that risks remain from the prospect
of Fed tapering.  The won will strengthen to as much as 1,000 per dollar by
the end of the first quarter should the Fed start its stimulus
cuts in March, Kim Doo Hyeon, chief foreign-exchange trader at
Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul, said at a markets forum in Seoul
yesterday. South Korea’s record foreign reserves will support
the currency, he said.  The Federal Open Market Committee refrained from trimming
its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases last month, noting the
U.S. economy is showing signs of “underlying strength.”
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg Oct. 17-18 predicted the Fed
would begin paring stimulus in March compared with previous
forecasts for as early as December.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2016 was unchanged at a seven-week high of 2.9 percent,
according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  