-- Nasdaq to Quote Structured Note Prices as SEC Urges Transparency
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-11-07T18:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/nasdaq-to-quote-structured-note-prices-as-sec-urges-transparency.html
U.S. investors will be able to shop
for structured-note deals for the first time in the $40-billion-a-year market as  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. is set to publish daily
values of the securities.  The  Mutual Fund Quotation Service , which lists so-called
indicative prices of investments from real estate investment
trusts to college savings programs known as 529 plans, would
make the figures available, Jeff Kimsey, a Nasdaq vice president
of U.S. product management in Rockville,  Maryland , said in a
telephone interview. The note values, which would be estimates
and perhaps not guaranteed for trades, will probably be set once
a day by banks, he said.  Widespread participation in the program by issuers may help
alleviate a chief concern among regulators, that the illiquid
investments lack pricing transparency. While banks will still
unilaterally determine the quotes on Nasdaq’s system, investors
will be able to compare the values of individual securities, day
to day.  “I firmly believe that the ability for people to see this
information is only going to be a positive in the industry,”
Kimsey said. “The dissemination isn’t going to talk about the
goodness or badness of structured products. It’s really about
bringing light to these instruments.”  Though no issuers have signed up yet, Kimsey said, the
Nasdaq service could end up including quotes for products such
as “contingent absolute return autocallable optimization”
notes alongside those for the $251 billion  Vanguard Total Stock
Market Index Fund. (VTSMX)  For each security, Nasdaq will charge banks a
one-time fee of $325 and $500 annually, said Wayne Lee, a
company spokesman.  $40 Billion  Investors are poised to buy about $40 billion of U.S.
structured notes this year, according to average monthly sales
data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities, which are bonds
bundled with derivatives, can be customized and aren’t traded on
exchanges like stocks.  This year, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
pushed lenders to include initial estimates of their own
structured note values, which issuers have added to offering
prospectuses. Banks estimate most of the securities at between
96 and 98 cents on the dollar, Bloomberg data show.  Some notes are too complex for buyers to easily understand
how they would pay out under different market conditions, said
 Richard Ketchum , chief executive officer of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, at an industry conference in
September 2012.  30,000 Quotes  The Mutual Fund Quotation Service, which was started 27
years ago and now includes prices for more than 30,000 funds and
other assets, collects and sends data to vendors. Investors can
then look up a fund or a security on websites such as Yahoo!
Finance or Google.  The performance of U.S. structured notes typically is tied
to stocks, commodities, currencies or rates. The products can
include buffers against losses, leveraged gains to a cap,
protection of principal and a variety of other features.  The largest issuers in the U.S. this year are  Bank of
America Corp. , with $5.34 billion of sales and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , with $3.9 billion.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment about the Nasdaq system, and Susan McCabe of Bank of
America, didn’t return an e-mail. Keith Styrcula, chairman of
the Structured Products Association, didn’t return requests for
comment.  While Nasdaq, the second-largest operator of U.S. stock
exchanges, first considered adding the securities to its price
system about seven years ago, the company first approached the
Structured Products Association, an industry organization,
earlier this year, Kimsey said.  The timing seemed right, with regulators pushing the
industry toward more disclosure, he said.  “I’d certainly like to see transparency with all
structured products, but I think it’s going to be up to each of
the banks to determine whether this is something that’s going to
work for them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  