-- Nationstar Leads Mortgage-Firm Plunge as Earnings Hit Shares
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-11-07T22:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/nationstar-leads-mortgage-firm-plunge-as-earnings-roil-shares.html
Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  led
a slump in companies involved in making, servicing, backing or
investing in U.S. mortgages after the firms posted quarterly
results and executives discussed their outlooks.  Nationstar fell 17 percent to close at $40.75 in New York,
the most since March 2012, after reporting earnings today that
missed analysts’ estimates. The Lewisville, Texas-based company
created by Fortress Investment Group LLC said it will sell part
of its origination unit.  PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust (PMT) ,
 Walter Investment Management Corp. (WAC) ,  Annaly Capital Management
Inc. (NLY)  and  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  also declined.  Mortgage origination and servicing companies including
Nationstar and Walter Investment are facing increased
competition amid falling new loan volumes and fresh rivals.
Radian shares dropped 8.6 percent in New York trading after
Chief Executive Officer S.A. Ibrahim said today that increased
competition from existing firms and newcomers drawn to the
business has pressured insurance rates.  “We think it will take two to five days for investors to
readjust to the quarter’s disappointing news and then investors
will need to take a more realistic, long-term view,” Henry Coffey Jr., an analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., wrote in a
note to clients about mortgage lenders and servicers.  PennyMac, the Calabasas, California-based lender and
investor in distressed mortgages, dropped 3.5 percent, while
Tampa, Florida-based Walter Investment, which specializes in
servicing and reverse mortgages, tumbled 7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  