-- Nestle to Sell Most of Jenny Craig Unit to North Castle
-- B y   C e l e s t e   P e r r i   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-11-07T13:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/nestle-to-sell-most-of-jenny-craig-unit-to-north-castle.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food
company, agreed to sell most of its Jenny Craig diet business to
North Castle Partners for an undisclosed amount as it embarks on
an effort to dispose of underperforming units.  Nestle will divest Jenny Craig in  North America ,  Australia 
and  New Zealand , the Swiss company said today in a statement.
The price was probably less than the approximately $600 million
Nestle paid in 2006, analysts at Natixis and SNS Securities
said. The French business isn’t part of the transaction with the
Greenwich, Connecticut-based private-equity firm, which will
combine Jenny Craig with its Curves fitness clubs for women.  Nestle Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  said last month
that the company was drawing up a shortlist of businesses it’s
looking to sell after identifying laggards it can’t fix.
Analysts had identified Jenny Craig as a possible candidate to
be jettisoned, alongside PowerBar energy snacks, Lean Cuisine
frozen meals and Herta meats. Jenny Craig sells diet food and
offers nutrition consultants for people trying to lose weight.  The brand has been a “perennial underperformer” since it
was acquired in a deal championed by Bulcke, Eddy Hargreaves, an
analyst at Canaccord Genuity in London, wrote today in an e-mail. The CEO was head of Nestle’s North American business at
the time.  Underperforming Units  While Jenny Craig has “been a drag on overall North
American performance in recent years,” the sale isn’t material
to Nestle on a group level, Hargreaves said. “It does
demonstrate a preparedness on Nestle’s part to divest
underperforming assets, particularly as there had been a
suspicion in the market that Jenny Craig was sacrosanct, given
the CEO’s personal involvement in the original deal.”  Nestle, the maker of Nescafe coffee, has “allowed
underperformers to underperform for too long,” Bulcke said Oct.
1. The strategy shift comes as the Vevey, Switzerland-based
company faces economic slowdowns in some  emerging markets  and
ongoing weakness in  Europe . Nestle reported nine-month sales on
Oct. 17 that rose at a slower pace than its full-year target.  Jenny Craig has suffered as dieters shift to newer weight-loss remedies and cut spending, so the business has exited the
U.K. and closed diet centers in the U.S. Analysts Pierre Tegner
at Natixis and  Richard Withagen  at SNS Securities both said
North Castle probably paid less than Nestle’s purchase price
seven years ago.  Jenny Craig’s net annual sales were probably less than 400
million Swiss francs ($439 million), Natixis estimated. Nestle
reported sales last year of about 90 billion francs.  Optimizing Assets  “The impact on the group should not be highly visible but
this disposal is the start of longer process of asset
optimization,” Natixis wrote today in an e-mail. “This news
will be positively welcomed.”  Nestle’s  shares , which have risen about 11 percent this
year, gained 0.9 percent to 66.45 francs as of 2:26 p.m. local
time.  North Castle’s combination of Jenny Craig with Curves
International, a fitness club chain it acquired last year, will
offer nutrition planning and strength training “under one
roof,” the company said in a statement. Monty Sharma, CEO of
Waco, Texas-based Curves, will run the business.  “Putting Curves together with Jenny Craig will bring our
total business to a new level and allow us to offer consumers
all of the tools they need,” Sharma said in the statement.  North Castle focuses on health and wellness businesses with
revenue ranging from $10 million to $200 million, according to
its  website . It also owns Red Door Spas and Performance
Bicycles.  The new owners will offer employment to Jenny Craig’s
workers, Nestle said. Jenny Craig employs 3,000 people,
according to company spokesman Robin Tickle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  