-- Nigeria’s Zenith Bank Targets Power as Siemens Fights Blackouts
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-11-07T04:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/nigeria-s-zenith-bank-targets-power-as-siemens-fights-blackouts.html
Zenith Bank Plc (ZENITHBA) , Nigeria’s second
largest lender by assets, said it expects to increase loans to
the country’s privatized power companies as the government seeks
to end blackouts in Africa’s biggest oil producer.  Loans to the power sector may rise to 10 percent of the
bank’s loan book by next year, up from 4.3 percent in the third
quarter and 1.3 percent at the end of June, Chief Executive
Officer Godwin Emefiele, 52, said in an interview yesterday at
the bank’s headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital.  President Goodluck Jonathan has handed control of 14 power
plants in September to buyers including Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE) 
and Forte Oil Plc to secure funding for the facilities and end
daily blackouts in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second biggest economy.  “Opportunities in power opened up and we took advantage of
it,” Emefiele said. “It is a very essential utility that we
all need for our survival.”  The value of Zenith Bank’s loans to power companies was
about 40 billion naira ($252 million) in the third quarter after
the hand-overs, said Emefiele. Zenith Bank gave loans to
companies including  Eko Electricity Distribution Company  and
 Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company  both in Lagos state,
which is Nigeria’s most populated, with about 22 million people.  “As we review the companies and we see viable
propositions, yes we will” expand loans to the industry, he
said.  Net Income  Zenith Bank reported nine-month net income rose 16 percent
from a year earlier to 68.9 billion naira, with revenue
advancing 12 percent. The lender expects “steady growth” next
year, with total loans rising 15 to 20 percent, Emefiele said.  The Central Bank of Nigeria, which has kept its  key
interest rate  at a record high of 12 percent for two years to
stabilize the naira and curb inflation, is unlikely to ease
policy next year before elections in 2015, he said.  Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi warned in September of
an increasing demand for dollars being used for political
patronage before elections.  “There’s going to be a lot of spending and the central
bank has a lot of work to do in controlling the spending so that
it doesn’t spiral into interest rate effects too,” Emefiele
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Lagos at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  