-- Treasuries, Gold Fall as Dollar Rises; Dow Reaches Record
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-11-08T21:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/nikkei-futures-slide-as-yen-holds-surge-while-euro-sinks.html
Ten-year Treasury yields jumped the
most since July and gold slid as faster-than-forecast growth in
U.S. payrolls fueled speculation the  Federal Reserve  may trim
stimulus earlier than expected. The dollar strengthened against
most major peers while U.S. stocks rallied.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries jumped 15 basis points to
2.75 percent at 4 p.m. in  New York  and climbed as much as 16
basis points. Gold futures dropped 1.8 percent to $1,284.60 an
ounce. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 1.3 percent,
recouping yesterday’s loss, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
rallied 167.8 points to a record 15,761.78. French bonds fell
after S&P downgraded the country’s debt. The dollar climbed 0.4
percent against the euro as it strengthened against 15 of its 16
main counterparts.  Employers in the U.S. added 204,000 workers last month, the
Labor Department said, following a revised 163,000 gain in
September that was larger than initially estimated. The median
forecast of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
120,000 increased. Data yesterday showed faster-than-estimated
economic growth. France’s rating was lowered to AA from AA+ at
S&P.  “For markets it shows that the labor market continues to
tighten and should bring forward people’s estimates of when the
Federal Reserve will have to reduce bond purchases,” said  David Kelly , the chief global strategist at JPMorgan Funds in New
York, which oversees about $400 billion in long-term assets.
“Ultimately this is good news for the economy. I think in the
long run it’s good news for the stock market.”  Treasury Yields  Thirty-year U.S. bond rates increased 14 basis points to
3.85 percent and two-year note yields increased three basis
points to 0.31 percent.  Yields have risen since the  Federal Open Market Committee 
said Oct. 30 that the economy showed signs of “underlying
strength” even as policy makers agreed to continue the $85
billion of monthly bond purchases, known as quantitative easing.
The next meeting is Dec. 17-18.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency
against 10 major peers, climbed 0.3 percent. The currencies of
Norway, Japan and  New Zealand  led losses against the dollar,
weakening at least 1 percent.  The  S&P 500  dropped 1.3 percent yesterday, its worst loss
since August, and finished the week up 0.5 percent. The gauge
has climbed 24 percent in 2013, poised for its biggest gain in a
decade, and is trading near its most-expensive price-to-earnings
valuation in more than three years.  Market Leaders  Gauges of financial, commodity and consumer-discretionary
stocks rose more than 1.5 percent to lead the rebound today as
eight of the 10 main S&P 500 industry groups advanced. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Merck & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. climbed
the most in the Dow, gaining more than 2 percent.  Twitter Inc. (TWTR) 
fell 7.2 percent after surging 73 percent in its trading debut
yesterday.  Today’s jump in  interest rate  triggered losses in
homebuilders, while fueling gains in insurers. Ryland Group Inc.
and Lennar Corp. dropped more than 4 percent to lead declines in
10 of 11 stocks in an S&P index of homebuilders. MetLife Inc.
surged 5.4 percent on the prospect that rising yields will
improve investment income in a bond portfolio valued at more
than $340 billion.  Three shares dropped for every two that rose in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, leaving the gauge down 0.2 percent today and
trimming its weekly gain to 0.4 percent. Finmeccanica SpA sank 6
percent, the most since February, after the Italian arms company
predicted a cash outflow for this year amid suspended
helicopters payments and a sluggish rail business. Rheinmetall
AG retreated 5.8 percent as the German maker of armored vehicles
reported declining profit.  European Movers  Numericable SAS (NUM) , France’s largest cable operator, rallied
15 percent in its trading debut after raising about 652.2
million euros ($875 million) in the country’s biggest initial
public offering in four years.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA advanced 8
percent after the parent of British Airways said third-quarter
earnings more than doubled and lifted its full-year outlook.
 Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) , the world’s second-largest maker of
commercial  jet engines , gained 3.4 percent after raising the
earnings target for its defense aerospace unit.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for a seventh day, the
longest losing streak since March, sliding 1.3 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.1 percent before the start of
a Communist Party meeting tomorrow. Benchmark indexes in  Russia ,
South Africa,  Turkey ,  Thailand , the Czech Republic and the
 Philippines  dropped more than 1 percent.  French Downgrade  Ten-year French government debt yields increased seven
basis points to 2.22 percent. Since S&P’s first downgrade on
Jan. 13, 2012, French  government bonds  returned more than 10
percent, according to Bloomberg France Sovereign Bond Index.
France’s government debt is the second biggest in the euro area,
trailing only Italy, and the fourth largest among global
sovereign-debt market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit-default swaps on France rose one basis point today
to 51 basis points after dropping as low as 49 basis points
yesterday, the lowest since April 2010. The contracts have
fallen from 219 basis points on Jan. 13, 2012.  AT&T (T)  Inc. and BNP Paribas SA led 21 billion euros ($28
billion) of bond sales in Europe this week, the busiest in two
months.  Dallas-based AT&T sold 2 billion euros of bonds due in
eight and 12 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
average yield on investment-grade euro-denominated notes dropped
four basis points this week to 1.8 percent, the lowest since
June 14, Bloomberg bond index data show.  Commodity Moves  Soybeans, gasoline, Brent crude and corn rose at least 1.5
percent to lead the S&P GSCI Index of commodities up 0.8
percent. Gold, silver and cocoa lost more than 0.8 percent for
the biggest declines.  Americans are paying the least to fill their cars in almost
two years as refiners process the most crude in a decade,
offering some relief to nervous consumers.  The  national  average retail price sank 1.1 cents to $3.211
a gallon, the lowest since Dec. 20, 2011, AAA, the nation’s
largest motoring club, said on its website today. Pump prices
are approaching the lowest level since February 2011, just
before unrest in the Middle East pushed U.S. crude oil above
$100 a barrel and gasoline near $4 a gallon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  