-- No Room for Emanuel to Jail Gun Criminals Tormenting City
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-11-07T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/no-room-for-emanuel-to-jail-gun-criminals-tormenting-city.html
Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel ’s plan to
quell his city’s gun violence with more jail time is running
into Illinois fiscal reality as well as claims that mandatory
prison sentences, popular in statehouses for decades, are
unaffordable and ineffective deterrents to crime.  The mayor of the third most-populous U.S. city says
mandatory three-year prison terms are needed to curb gun crimes
in Chicago, which recorded 352 homicides through Oct. 27.  New
York City , with three times the population, reported 273 during
the same period.  The debate comes against a national backdrop of declining
inmate populations and a recent call from U.S. Attorney General
Eric Holder to revise sentencing practices. The state Department
of Corrections projects the tougher penalties sought by Emanuel
would increase the prison population by 3,400 and cost taxpayers
$866 million, even as the state faces $100 billion in unfunded
pension liabilities and a $9 billion backlog of unpaid bills.  “Some have claimed that this law would be too expensive
and that we don’t have the jail space to carry out these
sentences,” Emanuel said Oct. 23 in a budget presentation to
the City Council.  “It’s not about putting more people in jail,” the mayor
said. “It is about putting the right people in jail.”  Inmate Overload  Illinois  is incarcerating more people and keeping them
locked up longer at the same time the U.S. prison population has
declined in each of the past three years, according to a recent
 report  from the  U.S. Justice Department .  An eight-fold increase in the state’s prison population in
the past 40 years, to 49,000, has stemmed from a combination of
mandatory-minimum sentences, revoking probation for certain
offenses, elevating some misdemeanors to felony status, and
suspending early releases for good behavior, said David Olson,
who teaches criminal justice at Loyola University Chicago.  “The financial impact of all this is really catching up to
us now,” Olson said. “I don’t recall seeing this much of a
debate about the policy.”  Opponents of Emanuel’s mandatory sentencing measure,
including the John Howard Association of Illinois, a nonprofit
group that advocates for criminal-justice reform, said in a
position paper that Chicago should pay the costs of new prison
sentences instead of making Illinois taxpayers foot the bill.  Frustrating Violence  The number of homicides in Chicago has dropped 19 percent
this year and the city is experiencing roughly half the number
of killings as in the mid-1990s. Yet there is a sense of
frustration about gun violence that disrupts neighborhoods on
the city’s South and West sides, even as the homicide rate falls
in  New York  and  Los Angeles . Yesterday, a six-year-old boy was
among the wounded in shootings that left at least two dead and
four other victims with injuries, the  Chicago Tribune  said.  Police Superintendent Garry McCarthy, a former deputy
commissioner of the New York department who has said Chicago
needs to be more like New York, has calculated that at least 111
shootings or murders this year wouldn’t have occurred if the
bill were now law, because those involved in the crimes had
previous gun violations and would’ve been locked up. He and
Emanuel blame the proliferation of illegal guns in the city, of
which more than 5,800 have been confiscated this year.  The issue has divided political allies. Toni Preckwinkle,
the president of the Cook County Board of Commissioners who
oversees the operation of the county’s 10,000-inmate jail,
disagrees with Emanuel and opposes the tougher sentences. Both
the executives are Democrats.  First Stop  The jail is almost always the first stop for those charged
with serious crimes in the city. The facility is usually filled
beyond capacity, requiring Sheriff Tom Dart to send inmates --
often by the hundreds -- to county facilities around the state.  The average inmate’s stay at the jail on  Chicago ’s South
Side is 57 days, up from 48 in 2007. Every time a new prisoner
enters, the cost to taxpayers rises by $143 a day. The tab for
housing all inmates during a single 24-hour period at the razor-wired compound is about $1.4 million.  “There is not a silver bullet solution to the problem,”
Cara Smith, chief of policy and communications for the Cook
County Sheriff’s office, said of gun violence in Chicago. “But
we’re at a point where every strategy possible has to be
examined and implemented to deal with this. We don’t need any
reminders of the daily toll it takes.”  The issue is whether the mandatory prison terms sought by
Emanuel are the proper response. In an unusually public academic
spat, criminal-justice experts at two prominent Chicago
universities aired their differences on the subject.  Dueling Views  The University of Chicago Crime Lab forecasts mandatory
sentences would result in 3,800 fewer crimes each year,
including 400 involving serious violence. The costs of
incarceration would be more than offset by public safety gains,
the lab said in an analysis touted by Emanuel.  A Northwestern University Bluhm Legal Clinic study called
the policy “not only costly, but also counterproductive.”  In the past, state lawmakers, who have toughened penalties
for crimes such as those that involve drugs, guns, kidnapping,
sexual assault and burglary, would tend to agree with the mayor.  “What the legislature can do is make laws more punitive,”
Olson said. “They can’t arrest people, they can’t try people.
It’s their way of responding to an electorate that demands that
something be done.”  The sentencing measure is pending before legislative
committees in Springfield, the state capital, where lawmakers
are about to end the current session. Representative Michael Zalewski, a Chicago Democrat and a sponsor, said he’s trying to
ease cost concerns and to reassure those who fear that law-abiding citizens with guns will be sent to prison if arrested.  “This thing has gotten sucked into an academic exercise,”
Zalewski said in an interview.  McCarthy and other law-enforcement officials “don’t have
the chance to sit in academic institutions and drink coffee and
talk,” he said. “They have to go out and arrest people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  