-- Norway’s Christian Democrats Urge Lower Cap on Oil Spending
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-11-07T11:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/norway-s-christian-democrats-urge-lower-cap-on-oil-spending-2-.html
Norway ’s Christian Democrats, whose
support the minority government needs to pass a budget, said
it’s time to place more limits on oil-wealth spending and
protect the economy from overheating.  Norway, which uses oil money to plug its budget deficits,
has placed a 4 percent limit on spending from its $810 billion
sovereign wealth fund. Knut Arild Hareide, leader of the
Christian Democrats, said that cap is now meaningless as the
fund balloons in size.  “It’s not a limit, because no one will use 4 percent,”
Hareide, whose party also heads parliament’s finance committee,
said in an interview yesterday in Oslo. “It’s not responsible
to do that.”  Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen, who helped design the
rule last decade, has warned since February 2012 that the cap
should be lowered to 3 percent to fulfill the goal of protecting
Scandinavia’s richest economy from overheating.  “None of the politicians said anything at that time, but
we are ready for that debate now,” Hareide said.  The  Christian Democrats  were part of the four-party
opposition that ousted the former government in September
elections. The party, together with the Liberals, stayed out of
the government while vowing to support the Conservative and
Progress Party minority government in parliament.  First Test  “We are satisfied with the agreement but we haven’t
started the work yet,” Hareide said. The first test will be
Nov. 8 when the new government presents its revisions to the
outgoing Labor-led coalition’s budget, he said. Hareide’s
Christian Democrats support the new government’s promise to
boost infrastructure spending and cut taxes.  The previous government’s budget, which was released
earlier this month, called for using 2.9 percent of the wealth
fund, staying within the 4 percent cap for a fifth year.  “Even to stick to 3 percent now has the implication of an
expansionary impulse to the Norwegian economy,” Olsen said in
an interview last week.  While that may seem restrictive, actual spending will
increase as the oil fund is predicted to swell to $870 billion
by the end next year and reach $1.2 trillion by 2020. Total use
of the money will be 135 billion kroner ($23 billion) next year,
up from an estimated 124 billion kroner this year, according to
the previous government’s budget.  Bigger Fund  The new government is expected to present a budget with oil
spending of about 140 billion kroner, Dagens Naeringsliv
reported this week, citing people with knowledge of the budget.
Still, spending will decline to 2.8 percent of the wealth fund,
as the new budget will revise the estimated size of the fund to
5 trillion kroner from 4.7 trillion kroner, DN reported.  “As long as we politicians spend less than 3 percent,
there’s no need to do something about the rule,” said the
 Liberal Party ’s Terje Breivik, a member of the finance committee
in parliament.  The Liberal party, who have also agreed to support the
minority government in parliament, said today that the revised
budget should stick to spending 135 billion kroner of the oil
fund, as proposed by the Labor government last month.  Policy makers have sought to calibrate policy to avoid
spurring krone gains while at the same time fueling an economy
where  household debt  has swelled to a record and housing prices
have soared. As the euro area struggled through its debt crisis,
western  Europe ’s largest oil exporter emerged as a haven. While
that helped keep unemployment below 4 percent, it also fueled
the risk of overheating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  