-- Novartis to Cut 500 Jobs in U.S., Europe in Research Revamp
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-11-07T15:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/novartis-to-cut-500-jobs-in-u-s-europe-in-research-revamp.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  plans to close two sites
in Europe, move staff from California to the Boston area and cut
about 500 jobs in an effort consolidate its research operations,
especially in respiratory diseases.  Novartis plans to close sites in Horsham,  England , and
Vienna and move cancer research from Emeryville, California, to
Cambridge, Massachusetts,  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for the
company, said in an e-mailed statement today. The
biotherapeutics development unit in  La Jolla , California, will
be closed, he said.  The changes come as the company’s new chairman, Joerg Reinhardt, is scrutinizing Novartis’s operations. Reinhardt
began a review of the portfolio after taking over in August, and
has said Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis wants its businesses
to be among the industry leaders or will otherwise consider
divesting them. Novartis employs more than 125,000 people.  “We are taking action to co-locate scientific resources in
order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our global
research organization,” Althoff said.  The final number of cuts is subject to employee
consultation processes in the U.K. and  Austria , Althoff said.
Since new positions may be created in Cambridge, net job loss
could be lower, Althoff said.  Shire Plc, the maker of the Vyvanse pill for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, said today it’s cutting U.K.
research jobs and will move its Swiss operations. About 180
employees at Shire’s U.K. headquarters in Basingstoke, England,
may be affected, a spokesman said.  Separate from the research reorganization, Novartis plans
to cut sales jobs in Frimley, England, because the company is
ending marketing and sales support for products in diabetes and
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  