-- U.S. Health Website Handled Only 1,100 in Test at Start
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-11-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/obamacare-website-handled-1-100-users-in-test-at-start.html
The Obama administration’s health
insurance website handled only 1,100 simultaneous users before
faltering in a test a day ahead of its opening, according to a
contractor’s report.  A Sept. 30 “stress” test on the site, healthcare.gov,
found it accommodated 1,100 users “before response time gets
too high,” contractors wrote in the “ACA Daily Testing
Bulletin,” released yesterday by the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee. The report was produced by Quality
Software Services Inc., a  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  unit hired by
the federal government to help build the online marketplace.  “There’s no question we wish we had done more testing,”
Joanne Peters, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Health and Human
Services Department, said in an e-mail. “But we are now working
around the clock to improve the consumer experience on
 healthcare.gov.  One of the items we have ticked off our punch
list is response times for page loads, which we have reduced
dramatically from eight seconds to less than one second.”  The website is intended as the main portal for millions of
uninsured people in 36 states to buy health coverage under the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. Since its
start on Oct. 1, people using the site have experienced slow
page-loading times, blank pages and hang-ups in the enrollment
process, flaws the Obama administration said have prevented many
people from signing up for health plans.  The administration initially blamed higher-than-expected
traffic to the website for many of the troubles, noting that 8.6
million people visited the site during its first three days.  Tech Surge  HHS announced a repair effort on Oct. 20 that it called a
“tech surge.” On Oct. 22, President  Barack Obama  appointed
Jeffrey Zients, his incoming chief economic adviser, as a
management consultant for the repairs. QSSI, the UnitedHealth
unit, was appointed lead contractor for the project, and Zients
said the site would be fixed by the end of November.  Kathleen Sebelius, the U.S. health secretary, reiterated
that promise today at a Senate hearing.  “By the end of November we are committed to having a site
working smoothly for the vast majority of users,” Sebelius told
members of the Senate Finance Committee.  Americans have until Dec. 15 to enroll in health plans that
would start Jan. 1. Those who don’t find insurance by March 31
may have to pay a fine of as much as 1 percent of their income.  Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican and
chairman of the House oversight committee, obtained the QSSI
document after issuing a subpoena to the company on Oct. 29,
Caitlin Carroll, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  