-- Obama Nominates BofA’s Selig to Oversee International Trade
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-11-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/obama-nominates-bofa-s-selig-to-oversee-international-trade.html
President  Barack Obama  nominated  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  executive Stefan Selig to oversee international
trade as he seeks to jumpstart the economy by appointing a Wall
Street veteran to the Commerce Department.  The White House announced the nomination yesterday, subject
to confirmation by the  U.S. Senate . Selig, Bank of America’s
executive vice chairman of global corporate and investment
banking, would report to  Penny Pritzker , the Chicago
businesswoman confirmed in June as Commerce secretary.  Selig, 50, would replace  Francisco Sanchez  as
undersecretary for international trade, a job that involves
promoting American industry at home and abroad as head of
Commerce’s International Trade Administration. Sanchez said in
September he would resign from the post he has held since 2009.  “Stefan Selig is a tremendous talent and we’ll be lucky to
have him join the Commerce Department,” Pritzker said. “He has
the global experience, management skills and understanding of
how to put deals together to ensure that we will be able to
continue our critical work to expand trade and exports, grow our
economy and create jobs.”  Selig was lured to the position by Pritzker, who decided a
 Wall Street  dealmaker could help the U.S. narrow its trade
deficit by convincing companies in developing economies to buy
more goods and services from the states.  The U.S. trade gap was little changed in August at $38.8
billion, the Commerce Department  reported  in October, as imports
and exports stalled. The president announced an initiative in
2010 to double U.S. exports between 2009 to 2014, to $3.14
trillion. They totalled $2.2 trillion last year.  Banker Peers  Selig, known in banking circles for his tailored suits and
fashion sense, has been giving companies merger advice for 29
years. He advised Time Warner Inc. on the spinoff its AOL
Internet unit in 2009 and also helped coordinate  L Brands Inc. (LTD) ’s
sales of Express LLC and New York & Co.  “Stefan is one of the more memorable and personable
talents on Wall Street,” said Larry Grafstein, co-head of M&A
at UBS AG who first worked with Selig about 25 years ago. “He
is a genuine adviser in every sense of the word and he will no
doubt be a great asset to the administration.”  In his new job, he’ll be paid about $163,000 a year to
essentially be the investment banker for the U.S. This will
involve travelling to Asia,  South America  and elsewhere.  Selig would join a handful of prominent bankers that have
left their jobs to join the Obama administration. Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew and U.S. Trade Representative  Michael Froman  helped oversee a Citigroup Inc. unit involved in  hedge
funds  and private equity. William M. Daley, Obama’s former chief
of staff, was JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Midwest chairman and head
of corporate responsibility.  Career Change  Selig differs from those three and Pritzker in that this
would be his first job in politics. Lew and Froman worked for
President  Bill Clinton . Pritzker, an heiress whose family
started  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , was Obama’s national finance chair
in his 2008 election campaign.  “In my experience with Stefan he is an outstanding
business person who has a broad strategic expertise and an
ability to get things done,” said Douglas Braunstein, vice
chairman of JPMorgan Chase & Co., who worked across the table
from Selig in the 2003 merger of Caremark and Advance PCS for
$5.3 billion.  Selig ran Bank of America’s M&A group before its purchase
in 2009 of Merrill Lynch & Co. The team advised on more than $1
trillion in deals while Selig was in charge, Bank of America
said in a memo announcing Selig’s promotion in 2009.  He began his career at First Boston Corp in 1984, and left
with Bruce Wasserstein and Joseph Perella in 1988 to help start
Wasserstein Perella & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  