-- Obama Ally Poised to Lead UAW in Midst of Organizing Push
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-11-07T23:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/obama-ally-poised-to-lead-uaw-in-midst-of-organizing-push.html
Dennis Williams, a former welder who
helped jump-start  Barack Obama ’s presidential bid, is poised to
lead the United Auto Workers union as it seeks to accelerate a
recovery paced by resurgent U.S. automakers.  Williams, the UAW’s secretary-treasurer, was named by a
union caucus as its candidate for president during a press
conference yesterday in Dearborn,  Michigan . Williams, 60, has
led the UAW’s efforts to organize U.S. workers at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
and Nissan Motor Co. factories in  Tennessee  and  Mississippi .  The UAW has accepted lower wages for new auto worker hires
in a bid to rebuild membership that fell to Great Depression era
lows in 2009, when  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC’s
predecessors went bankrupt. If elected in June, Williams would
succeed  Bob King , 67, who has benefited from the  Detroit  Three’s
recoveries while staking the union’s future bargaining power on
adding members from Asian and European carmakers.  “The UAW is facing some very serious problems in terms of
its long-term survival,”  Art Wheaton , a labor expert at  Cornell
University , said in a telephone interview. “Organizing the
transplants down south is critical. If you can get a foothold in
some of the assembly plants in the South, then you can start
organizing the suppliers to that assembly plant.”  Williams was “central in orchestrating” Obama’s win in
the Iowa Democratic caucus, a key early victory that helped spur
his 2008 election, according to his  biography  on the UAW’s
website. Before becoming secretary-treasurer, he was director of
the UAW’s Region 4, which includes Iowa and Obama’s home state
of  Illinois .  Fair Contracts  “I’m not afraid of confrontation,” Williams told
reporters yesterday. “We’ve had a long history of tough battles
over the years, but we’ve also learned from them. None of us
want a confrontation. We want a fair, decent contract.”  The Obama administration crafted an $80 billion auto
industry rescue plan that included the managed bankruptcies of
GM and Chrysler in 2009. President  George W. Bush , a Republican,
had given the companies emergency loans in late 2008 to keep
them in business long enough for Obama, a Democrat, to extend
the controversial bailout.  The UAW’s membership rose 0.5 percent to 382,513 last year,
the union’s highest since 2008 and the third consecutive gain,
as U.S. automakers added employees amid rising sales.  While the UAW’s 2012 membership gain followed a 1.1 percent
increase in 2011, the union’s total membership is still only
about one-fourth its size in 1979, when it peaked at 1.5
million. Before 2010, membership for the Detroit-based UAW was
at the lowest level since 1940, the year before the union
organized  Ford Motor Co. (F) , according to data from the Walter P.
Reuther Library at  Wayne State University  in Detroit.  Wage Raises  The union began allowing GM, Ford and Chrysler to hire new
hourly workers for about half the previous starting wage of $28
an hour in 2007. The automakers agreed to raises for those
workers in 2011 contracts to as much as  $19.28 by 2015 .  Williams called for “rebuilding the  labor movement  and
eliminating the injustice of the two-tier system” at a three-day UAW conference in  Washington  earlier this year, according to
the union’s  website .  “The two-tier system will be in place until we can
organize the transnationals,” Williams said at the time,
referring to automakers based outside the U.S. He showed members
a video of organizing efforts at Nissan’s factory in Canton,
Mississippi, and said the UAW was working with international
unions such as the Japanese Auto Workers union, according to the
website.  The UAW said in September that it was meeting with
officials from Volkswagen and its Global Works Council about
representing workers at its plant in Chattanooga, Tennessee.  Volkswagen Update  “We’re very positive and upbeat,” King said yesterday of
the Volkswagen organizing effort. A majority of the workers at
Chattanooga have said they want UAW representation, and
Volkswagen is “the first company that has lived by the
standards that they say they’ll adhere to.”  Nissan and other automakers have said they too will respect
workers’ rights to organize, and then have run “very vicious”
anti-union campaigns, King said.  A Marine Corps veteran, Williams joined the UAW in 1977,
according to his biography on the union’s website. He is a
 member of the committee  that leads the UAW Retiree Medical
Benefits Trust, which provides health-care benefits for retired
UAW members who worked for GM, Ford and Chrysler.  The trust responsible for Chrysler retirees faces $3
billion in unfunded obligations and is seeking the most for its
41.5 percent stake in the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based automaker
from  Fiat SpA (F) , which owns the rest of the company. The shortfall
last year was reduced from more than $5 billion in 2011,
according to a financial statement filed last month.  Picket Line  Williams spent 5 1/2 years on the picket line striking
against Caterpillar Inc., the world’s biggest maker of
construction and mining equipment, he told a  UAW convention  in
2011.  In the end, the union agreed to a two-tier wage system with
Caterpillar that is similar to the arrangement the UAW has with
the U.S. automakers.  Williams’s history of helping lead the Caterpillar strikes
contrasts with the approach by King, who has preached a more
collaborative than combative approach to dealing with automakers
as UAW president. Still, Williams is viewed as a close ally of
his predecessor, Wheaton said.  “There is no expectation that he will radically change the
direction of the union,” he said. The UAW’s leadership expects
that Williams “won’t necessarily be a motivational speaker.
They just want to make sure he can win at the bargaining
table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Bill Koenig  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  