-- Toll to Purchase Homebuilder Shapell for $1.6 Billion
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-11-07T04:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/toll-to-purchase-california-homebuilder-shapell-for-1-6-billion.html
(Corrects purchase terms in second paragraph, Yearley
quote in sixth paragraph.)  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, agreed to buy Shapell Industries Inc.’s
homebuilding business for about $1.6 billion, gaining 5,200 lots
in the Los Angeles and San Francisco Bay areas as demand for
housing rises.  Toll will pay for Beverly Hills, California-based Shapell
with debt and a share offering, the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based
company said today in a statement. The deal will more than
double the number of California lots controlled by Toll, with
most in coastal markets where vacant land is hard to come by,
according to Toll Chief Executive Officer Douglas Yearley Jr.  “It’s a game-changer for this company,” he said in a
telephone interview. “It’s the most exciting acquisition we’ve
had in our 46-year history.”  Developers are stocking up on land as U.S.  home  values rise
at their fastest pace in seven years. Earlier this week, Barry Sternlicht’s  Irvine , California-based Tri Pointe Homes Inc.
agreed to buy the homebuilding division of Weyerhaeuser Co. for
$2.7 billion.  In the Shapell deal, about 10 percent to 15 percent of the
purchase price will be covered by issuing new Toll shares. Toll
plans to sell about $500 million of land from the Shapell
portfolio along with other holdings to help pay for acquisition
costs. The builder also stands to make money immediately by
selling homes in Shapell’s backlog and through new orders.  “We’re going to get a good amount of the $1.6 billion back
relatively quickly,” Yearley said. “The company believes it
will receive a significant return of its investment within 18
months of closing.”  Prices Gain  California  homes sold for a median of $355,000 in
September, up 24 percent from a year earlier and the 19th
consecutive month of year-over-year price gains, according to
DataQuick, a San Diego-based real estate data provider.  Shapell’s Porter Ranch, with about 1,800 home sites, is the
largest master-planned community in the city of Los Angeles, and
its Gale Ranch in San Ramon, east of San Francisco, has 1,500
lots. Shapell sold 350 homes this year through August for an
average of $800,000. Toll’s average price in California was
about $1 million, Yearley said, compared with $651,000 for all
of its homes delivered in its fiscal third quarter.  The Shapell deal is 10 times the size of Toll’s 2011
acquisition of Seattle-based builder CamWest Development LLC for
$150 million. Last year, the company paid $110 million for half
of Shea Baker Ranch in Orange County, California, and bought 117
Shapell lots in Yorba Linda, California, for $47 million. That
deal helped pave the way for the purchase of the entire company,
Shapell CEO Bill West said.  ‘Great Match’  “Toll was just a great match for us culturally,” West
said in a telephone interview. “It made the board feel very
comfortable that they were a great company to sell to.”  Bidding for Shapell was expected to range from $1 billion
to $1.5 billion, the biggest housing target on the market after
Weyerhaeuser, Will Randow and Anthony Pettinari, analysts at
Citigroup Inc., said in a Sept. 5 note.  Shapell was represented by Lazard Ltd., and Toll was
represented by Citigroup, Yearley said.  Shapell was founded by Nathan Shapell, brother David
Shapell and brother-in-law Max Webb, according to the company’s
 website . Nathan Shapell, born Nathan Schapelski in  Poland  in
1922, immigrated to the U.S. after surviving Nazi concentration
camps, according to a 2007 Los Angeles Times obituary. David
Shapell, 95, and Webb, 96, come to the office daily, West said.  “They felt there were others who could probably do more
for the company and more for the employees,” he said.  Toll will keep about 150 Shapell employees. Others with the
company will continue to work for the family’s commercial real
estate division, which wasn’t sold to Toll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  