-- Toll to Buy California Builder Shapell for $1.6 Billion
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-11-07T21:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/toll-to-buy-california-builder-shapell-for-1-6-billion.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  agreed to buy
Shapell Industries Inc.’s homebuilding business for about $1.6
billion, gaining 5,200 lots in the Los Angeles and  San Francisco 
Bay areas as buyer demand for housing rises.  Toll, the largest U.S. luxury-home builder, will pay for
 Beverly Hills , California-based Shapell with debt and a share
offering, the companies said yesterday in a statement. The deal
will more than double the number of California lots controlled
by Toll to about 9,200, with most in coastal markets where
vacant land is hard to come by, Chief Executive Officer Douglas Yearley Jr. said.  “It’s a game-changer for this company,” he said in a
telephone interview. “It’s the most exciting acquisition we’ve
had in our 46-year history.”  Developers are stocking up on land as U.S.  home  values
climb at their fastest pace in seven years. Earlier this week,
 Barry Sternlicht ’s  Irvine , California-based Tri Pointe Homes
Inc. agreed to buy the homebuilding division of Weyerhaeuser Co.
for $2.7 billion.  In the Shapell deal, 10 percent to 15 percent of the
purchase price will be covered by issuing new Toll shares, and
Toll plans to sell about $500 million of land from the Shapell
portfolio. The Horsham, Pennsylvania-based builder also stands
to make money immediately by selling homes in Shapell’s backlog.  ‘Significant Return’  “We’re going to get a good amount of the $1.6 billion back
relatively quickly,” Yearley said. “The company believes it
will receive a significant return of its investment within 18
months of closing.”  Toll Brothers rose 0.5 percent to $32.68 today. The shares
are up 1.1 percent this year, compared with a 3.9 percent loss
for the 11-member S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding  index .  California  homes sold for a median of $355,000 in
September, up 24 percent from a year earlier and the 19th
consecutive month of year-over-year price gains, according to
DataQuick, a San Diego-based real estate data provider.  Shapell’s Porter Ranch development, with about 1,800 home
sites, is the largest master-planned community in the city of
Los Angeles, and its Gale Ranch in  San Ramon , east of San
Francisco, has 1,500 lots. Shapell sold 350 homes this year
through August for an average of $800,000. Toll’s average price
in California was about $1 million, Yearley said, compared with
$651,000 for all of its homes delivered in its fiscal third
quarter.  Sales Rise  Toll said in a separate statement yesterday that the
average price of homes delivered in the fourth quarter was about
$703,000. Revenue in the three months ended Oct. 31 jumped 65
percent to $1.04 billion, while signed contracts increased 23
percent in dollar terms to $839 million.  The Shapell deal is 10 times the size of Toll’s 2011
acquisition of Seattle-based builder CamWest Development LLC for
$150 million. Last year, the company paid $110 million for half
of Shea Baker Ranch in Orange County, California, and bought 117
Shapell lots in Yorba Linda, California, for $47 million. That
deal helped pave the way for the purchase of the entire company,
Shapell CEO Bill West said.  “Toll was just a great match for us culturally,” West
said in a telephone interview. “It made the board feel very
comfortable that they were a great company to sell to.”  Competing Offers  Other bidders for Shapell included  Brookfield Residential
Properties Inc. (BRP) ,  Standard Pacific Corp. (SPF)  and closely held SunCal,
according to three people with knowledge of the sales process
who asked not to be identified because of confidentiality
agreements. Andrew Willis, a Brookfield spokesman; Danielle
Tocco, a Standard Pacific spokeswoman; and David Soyka, a SunCal
spokesman, declined to comment.  Bidding for Shapell was expected to range from $1 billion
to $1.5 billion, the biggest housing target on the market after
Weyerhaeuser, Will Randow and Anthony Pettinari, analysts at
Citigroup Inc., said in a Sept. 5 note.  Shapell was advised by Lazard Ltd., and Toll was
represented by Citigroup.  Shapell was founded by Nathan Shapell, brother David
Shapell and brother-in-law Max Webb, according to the company’s
 website . Nathan Shapell, born Nathan Schapelski in  Poland  in
1922, immigrated to the U.S. after surviving Nazi concentration
camps, according to a 2007  Los Angeles  Times obituary. David
Shapell, 95, and Webb, 96, come to the office daily, West said.  “They felt there were others who could probably do more
for the company and more for the employees,” he said.  Toll will keep about 150 Shapell employees. Others with the
company will continue to work for the family’s commercial real
estate division, which wasn’t sold to Toll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  