-- OMB Says Shutdown Trimmed Growth as Furloughs Cost $2 Billion
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-11-07T20:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/omb-says-shutdown-trimmed-growth-as-furloughs-cost-2-billion.html
The partial government shutdown last
month cost the government about $2 billion in lost productivity
because of employee furloughs and will trim economic growth by
as much as 0.6 percentage point in the fourth quarter, the White
House budget office reported today.  The 16-day closing of most government operations, resulting
from a standoff between the White House and congressional
Republicans over the budget and raising the federal debt
ceiling, had ripple effects throughout the  U.S. economy  from
stalled drilling permits and small business loans to export
licenses put on hold, according to the Office of Management and
Budget  report .  The analysis of data and private forecasts was released as
lawmakers from both parties are negotiating a budget agreement
before the current spending authorization expires on Jan. 15.  “The most important thing to avoid a shutdown is to pass a
budget,”  OMB Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell said on a
conference call today. “That is the way to prevent something
like this from happening again.”  The shutdown was the second longest since 1980 and the
biggest in terms of employee furlough days, the OMB said.  The OMB cited private forecasts that the shutdown will
reduce fourth quarter gross domestic product growth by 0.2
percentage point to 0.6 percentage point.  The report lists some of the economic impacts of federal
workers being off the job, including stalling 200 drilling
applications, delaying energy development on federal lands, and
leaving 2 million liters of U.S. beer, wine and distilled
spirits products sitting at ports.  Parks Closed  Closing the national parks and Smithsonian museums led to
more than $500 million in lost visitor spending and $11 million
in lost revenue from admission fees, the report said.  The shutdown began as the economy accelerated more than
forecast in the third quarter. Gross domestic product rose at a
2.8 percent annualized rate after a 2.5 percent gain the prior
three months, according to a Commerce Department report.  U.S. stocks slid as faster growth spurred concern the
 Federal Reserve  will scale back stimulus sooner than expected.
The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  declined 1.3 percent to 1,748.08
at 3:34 p.m. in  New York , its worst drop on a closing basis
since August.  The gain was driven by a buildup in inventories as
household consumption, which accounts for 70 percent of the
economy, and business spending on equipment slowed during the
period. That risks holding back production and the economy in
the current quarter, which began with the 16-day partial
shutdown of the government.  Economic growth this quarter will be less than economists
projected at the start of the shutdown. GDP will expand at a 2
percent annualized rate, according to the median projection in a
Bloomberg survey on Oct. 31, down from a 2.4 percent forecast in
an Oct. 4-9 survey.  Jobs data set for release tomorrow are projected to show
hiring slowed in October.  The Bloomberg  Consumer Comfort Index (COMFCOMF)  declined for the sixth
week in a row, falling to minus 37.9 in the week ended Nov. 3,
the worst reading since October 2012, from minus 37.6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  