-- Momentum Indicators Signal DAX Decline, Commerzbank Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-11-07T07:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/momentum-indicators-signal-dax-decline-commerzbank-says.html
Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  may decline as
much as 3.5 percent in the next two weeks as momentum indicators
on the benchmark gauge weaken, according to a technical analyst
at Commerzbank AG.  “The DAX should see a consolidation given that it had a
very strong move since Oct. 10, which left an overbought
technical situation,” Petra von Kerssenbrock, a technical
analyst at Commerzbank in Frankfurt, wrote in an e-mail. “The
DAX started a moderate bull market channel in November 2012. The
recent strong upward push has led the index to the upper trend
line, which also shows that a consolidation is due.”  The DAX climbed 0.4 percent to 9,040.87 yesterday, bringing
its advance since Oct. 10 to 4.1 percent. The gauge has surged
23 percent in the past year as the  Federal Reserve  maintained
its stimulus program and the  European Central Bank  cut  interest
rates  to a record low.  The DAX’s Moving Average Convergence Divergence line has
crossed below its signal line, suggesting that the rally is
losing steam, according to Kerssenbrock. The  relative strength
index  on the gauge fell below 70 yesterday, which may indicate
short-term losses, she said.  “For now, the index is trading between 8,950 and 9,072 and
has not yet delivered a new signal,” Kerssenbrock said. “A
slide below 8,950 should indicate a short-term consolidation,
which could last up to two weeks, during which the gap at 8,725
should be closed. Currently, it looks like a short-term
consolidation only.”  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study price
graphs to predict changes in a security, commodity, currency or
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  