-- OMV Petrom's Third-Quarter Net Rises 46% on Output, Costs
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-11-07T08:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/omv-petrom-s-third-quarter-net-rises-46-on-output-costs.html
OMV Petrom SA,  Romania ’s largest oil
company, said stable production and cost reductions helped to
increase third-quarter profit 46 percent on year.  Net income rose to 1.27 billion lei ($388 million) from 870
million lei in the year ago period, the Bucharest-based Petrom,
majority owned by  Austria ’s OMV AG, said in an  earnings
statement  on its website today. Sales fell 6 percent to 6.6
billion lei on lower crude sales volumes.  “In the third quarter, we continued to deliver a solid
performance, benefiting from a favorable crude price environment
and cost optimization,” Chief Executive Officer Mariana Gheorghe said in the statement. “In exploration and production,
over the first nine months of 2013, we managed to achieve the
first year-on-year production stabilization at group level since
privatization, as a result of continuous investments.”  Petrom, which has invested about 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) per year in Romania to stabilize output and reduce
costs, is searching for new resources in the Black Sea with
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  Petrom said today it aims to invest about 1.2
billion euros in Romania this year.  “Going forward, we will maintain our focus on delivering
on our operational initiatives and investment program,”
Gheorghe said. “These initiatives remain essential
prerequisites for a sustainable performance and cash flow
generation that will support our ambitious investment program in
the Black Sea in the coming years.”  Exploration Drilling  Petrom said it expects exploration drilling in its Neptun
block in the Black Sea to start around mid-2014, compared with
an initial estimate of early next year, as the drilling rig will
arrive later on site due to previous commitments. An additional
exploration well may be drilled in the Neptun block in the
second half of next year, subject to results and studies,
according to the statement.  The company’s total oil and gas production amounted to
182,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the third quarter,
unchanged from a year earlier, Petrom said. Production costs of
sales fell 12 percent to 4.3 billion lei in the third quarter
from 4.86 billion lei a year earlier, according to the
statement.  Petrom’s nine-month profit rose 26 percent to 3.66 billion
lei from 2.9 billion lei in the year-earlier period, according
to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  