-- London Gets New Port as First Ship Unloads at DP World Dock
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-11-07T15:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/london-gets-new-port-as-first-vessel-unloads-at-dp-world-dock.html
DP World Ltd. (DPW) ’s  London  Gateway port
received its first ship today following a decade-long project to
build a deep-water haven close to the U.K. capital that aims to
become one of Europe’s busiest container terminals.  The MOL Caledon docked in the first of sixth berths to be
opened at the site located 25 miles east of London and intended
to handle 3.5 million 20-foot containers a year. Its cargo
included fruit and automotive parts, DP World said in an e-mail.  London Gateway  is located closer to major U.K. population
centers than other ports able to handle 400-meter (1,300-foot)
ships that can carry more than 18,000 containers, DP World said.  “This is the first port to be built in the U.K. in a
generation,” DP World Chairman Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem said in
a statement. “There is nothing else like this. Shipping lines
can now bring the world’s largest ships closer to key U.K.
markets and reduce the costs of transportation.”  DP World spent 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) developing
London Gateway on a site formerly occupied by a  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  oil refinery. The new port will be able to handle
bigger ships than Tilbury and is two-thirds closer to half
London than  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Port of Felixstowe.  Triple-E  The dock complex is designed to win clients by combining a
harbor terminal with an onsite distribution center, luring
wholesalers and retailers away from older sites. Its berths are
big enough to take ships the size of  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) ’s
165,000-ton Triple-E class, of which five are due this year,
with 138 meter-high cranes able to span 25-container wide decks.  The MOL Caledon, which can carry about 4,500 20-foot boxes,
operates as part of the South Africa Europe Container Service or
SAECS, run by an alliance of Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. of  Japan ,
 Germany ’s DAL Deutsche Afrika-Linien GmbH and Maersk, the
world’s top container shipper, together with the Copenhagen-based company’s Belgium-based Safmarine Container Lines NV.  SAECS, which serves the South African cities of Durban,
 Port Elizabeth  and  Cape Town , switched its U.K. stop to London
Gateway from the rival port of Tilbury, operated by Arcus
Infrastructure Partners LLP’s Forth Ports Ltd. The service goes
on to call at Rotterdam,  Netherlands , and Bremerhaven, Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  