-- HKMA Bets on London With Half of $764 Million Mayfair Project
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-11-08T02:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/hong-kong-regulator-buys-half-of-764-million-london-development.html
Hong Kong ’s banking regulator bought
50 percent of a project in  London ’s luxury-shopping district
from  Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR) , adding to a wave of Asian
investment in the city. The completed development could be
valued at as much as 475 million pounds ($764 million).  Great Portland sold the Hanover Square Estate site for 202
million pounds to a 50-50 joint venture it created with the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority that’s developing the property, the
London-based real estate investment trust said in a statement
yesterday. JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts estimated the
development’s value in a note.  “The partnership will create long-term value,” the HKMA
said by e-mail. “Properties in the West End in particular have
had a positive growth trajectory underpinned by very limited
supply. This project, with its prime location and growth
potential, meets our investment criteria.”  The deal adds to an influx of investment in London from
 Asia . This month, Oxley Holdings Ltd., a Singapore-based
property developer, agreed to buy a site in east London where it
plans to build 3,400 homes. Hong Kong-based Knight Dragon agreed
to buy the remaining 40 percent in a project on the Greenwich
Peninsula that will include as many as 10,000 homes from
Quintain Estates & Development Plc.  Diversifying Assets  The HKMA, with the world’s eighth-largest foreign-exchange
reserves, started seeking diversification as the U.S. Federal
Reserve kept  interest rates  near zero. The Exchange Fund, used
by the government to manage the value of the  exchange rate , had
HK$14 billion in real estate in 2012, HKMA Chief Executive
 Norman Chan  said in January. Chan said in January 2011 that the
Exchange Fund had started to diversify its assets, including
going into overseas real estate.  “The HKMA invests in London because of diversification,
attractive valuation and good return,” Ronald Wan, chief China
adviser at Asian Capital Holdings Ltd., which has about $100
million of assets under management, said by phone today.
“Investments in stock and bond markets are seen as having
higher risks in view of the expected ending of quantitative
easing.”  The HKMA has $310 billion in foreign-currency reserves,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Hong Kong dollar  is
pegged to the U.S. currency.  Local Curbs  The de-facto central bank is investing in overseas real
estate as the Hong Kong government in February extended curbs to
commercial properties to deter speculators.  “The risk for the HKMA is that they might be buying in
near the top,” Jim Antos, an analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd. in Hong Kong, said in an e-mailed reply to questions from
 Bloomberg News . “However, the London acquisition is at least a
hedge against the Hong Kong property market. It is a bit ironic
that Hong Kong’s central bank is ‘speculating’ in real estate at
a time when the government has enacted a raft of anti-property
speculation measures locally.”  The Hanover Square development will include 208,000 square
feet (19,000 square meters) of offices, stores and six
apartments between  Bond Street  and Hanover Square.  The deal “is a strong endorsement of this project’s
potential,” Great Portland Chief Executive Officer Toby Courtauld said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  