-- Hong Kong Haven in Cash Squeeze Eases Dim Sum Lull: China Credit
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-11-07T03:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/hong-kong-haven-in-cash-squeeze-eases-dim-sum-lull-china-credit.html
A slump in Hong Kong’s benchmark  yuan 
interest rates, even as a cash squeeze inflates onshore
borrowing costs, is laying the foundation for a revival of the
weakest Dim Sum market on record.  The three-month  renminbi  Hong Kong  interbank offered rate ,
known as yuan Hibor, has fallen 157 basis points since its June
debut and touched a record low of 2.44 percent on Oct. 29,
according to the Treasury Markets Association. Its  discount  over
the similar gauge in  Shanghai  widened to 222 basis points this
week, from 166 at the beginning of June.  Germany ’s
Landeskreditbank Baden-Wuerttemberg Foerderbank, or L-Bank,
raised 250 million yuan ($41 million) selling the first
floating-rate Dim Sum linked to three-month yuan Hibor since the
fixing was introduced.  Hong Kong ’s yuan deposits climbed 28 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier while Dim Sum bond sales tumbled 76
percent, leaving ample supply of the currency in the banking
system.  China  Development Bank Co. yesterday sold 4.5 billion
yuan of floating-rate bonds in the city and where the Chinese
government is preparing its second offering of 2013.  “The yuan Hibor has been relatively stable, and that helps
issuers,” Ho Man Chun, an economist and strategist at Bank of
Communications Co.’s Hong Kong branch, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “For investors, the stability is attractive at times
of uncertainty over global central bank actions, including that
of the  Federal Reserve .”  Cash Squeeze  The yield on  10-year U.S. government debt  rose to a three-week high of 2.67 percent on Nov. 5 as data showed  service
industries  accelerated in October, fueling concern an improving
economy will push the Federal Reserve to cut its $85 billion of
stimulus sooner than anticipated. The rate on China’s sovereign
 bonds  due 2023 advanced four basis points this month to 4.22
percent yesterday, according to Chinabond data. That’s the
highest since September 2008.  The People’s Bank of China boosted the supply of funds in
Shanghai’s market late last month as borrowing costs jumped to
the highest since a cash crunch in June. The  benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate  climbed 85 basis points to 5.05 percent in
October, derailing a stock market rally and driving the one-year
government bond yield to a record 4.02 percent. The repo rate
was fixed at 3.95 percent today.  Economic Growth  The Dim Sum market had slumped as expectations for yuan
gains faded along with a slowing economy. Sales, excluding
certificates of deposit, fell to 6.8 billion yuan in the three
months through September from 28.6 billion yuan a year earlier,
before rebounding to 10.9 billion yuan so far this quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gross domestic product
will expand 7.6 percent this year, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg last month. That’s
down from 7.7 percent in 2012.  China is looking at deregulation and liberalization,
including a push for wider global use of the yuan, to revive
growth as Communist Party leaders meet Nov. 9-12 to set economic
policy for the coming years. Premier  Li Keqiang  has signaled
that he wants to reduce the state’s involvement in the economy
and the financial system and has allowed trial convertibility of
the yuan in a free-trade zone in Shanghai.  “There has been strong buying momentum in the offshore
yuan spot and forward markets from corporates and exporters,
which pushed Dim Sum yields lower,” said Tan Kian Hoe, Hong
Kong-based head of asset liability management for greater China
and  Japan  at Standard Chartered Plc. “There is more interest
now to take advantage of the lower rates in Hong Kong. The
volume of Dim Sum issuance has been picking up.”  Yuan Deposits  The Chinese currency has appreciated 2.2 percent against
the greenback this year, helping fuel a surge in Hong Kong’s
 yuan savings , the world’s biggest offshore pool. Deposits rose
to a record 730 billion yuan in September from 545.7 billion
yuan a year earlier, according to the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority. The currency will rise another 1.6 percent by the end
of next year, according to a Bloomberg survey, which would make
it  Asia ’s fourth-biggest gainer in 2014. The yuan slipped 0.02
percent to 6.0938 per dollar in Shanghai today.  “Continued yuan appreciation means higher repayment costs,
which deters some corporates from borrowing in yuan, especially
through loans,” said Ngan Kim Man, head of interest-rate
trading at Hang Seng Bank in Hong Kong. “Even though borrowing
costs in Dim Sum bonds have become more attractive relative to
onshore, for Chinese companies, whether they can repatriate the
funds back to China remains a concern.”  The average yield on offshore yuan  government bonds  was 63
basis points  lower than  similar debt in Shanghai yesterday,
compared with a 21 basis point premium in June, according to
indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Deep Base  L-Bank adopted the yuan Hibor to price its bonds because of
the “deep deposit base,” Sven Lautenschlaeger, the lender’s
international funding officer, said in a Nov. 4 e-mail
interview. “We saw good demand from bank treasuries and fund
managers out of Hong Kong and  Singapore ,” he said, adding that
this allowed the lender to expand the sale from an initial
planned issue of 200 million yuan.  Supply of Dim Sum notes is set to increase before the end
of the year, with China’s Finance Ministry planning to sell 10
billion yuan of the securities in Hong Kong on Nov. 21.  “On the lending side, funding is cheaper offshore than
onshore, so there are Chinese corporates coming to borrow,”
said Cynthia Wong, head of emerging-market trading for Singapore
and Hong Kong at Societe Generale SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  