-- Moore Capital’s Darren Read Said to Plan to Depart for Gemsstock
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n ,   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-11-07T09:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/moore-capital-s-darren-read-said-to-plan-to-depart-for-gemsstock.html
Darren Read, who helped run a hedge
fund at Moore Capital Management LLC with Greg Coffey, is
preparing to join a firm being started by two former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
colleagues, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Read will move to Gemsstock Ltd., a hedge fund firm being
set up by Al Breach and Charles Hill, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the move hasn’t been made public.  Read, who joined Moore Capital in London from GLG Partners
Inc. five years ago, declined to comment when reached by
telephone. He has been listed as inactive since October 14 on
the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority’s register of approved
persons. A spokesman for Moore Capital in New York declined to
comment.  Breach, former Russia strategist at UBS in Moscow, is
teaming up with Hill, former head of trading at UBS’s joint
venture in  Russia , and Florian Fenner, managing partner at
Russia’s UFG Asset Management for the past 11 years, according
to filings made last month at U.K.’s Companies House. Fenner
didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Moore Capital tapped Read when it hired Coffey’s team of a
dozen traders from London-based GLG. The company shut the $1
billion Emerging Equity Long/Short Fund that Read co-managed
after Coffey announced he would leave the firm in October 2012,
a person with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Prior to GLG, Read spent six years at UBS working in global
and emerging market equities and three years as a fund manager
at WestLB Asset Management. Moore Capital, which was founded by
Louis Moore Bacon, has about $12 billion of funds under
management.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  