-- OPEC Sees Less Demand for its Oil to 2018 Amid Shale Boom
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-11-07T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/opec-sees-less-demand-for-its-oil-to-2018-amid-shale-boom.html
OPEC acknowledged it underestimated
the significance of the North American energy boom as it tripled
estimates for shale oil produced there and predicted a decline
in demand for its own crude through to 2018.  The need for crude from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, which produces about 40 percent of the
world’s oil, will fall by 1.1 million barrels a day to 29.2
million barrels a day between 2013 and 2018, the Vienna-based
group said today in its annual World Oil Outlook. Oil production
from shale formations in the U.S. and Canada is seen climbing to
4.9 million barrels a day in 2018, compared with an estimate of
1.7 million barrels a day in last year’s report.  “The big picture is obviously surging shale production,”
 Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at Societe Generale
SA, said in a telephone interview from  New York  before the
release of the report.  OPEC’s analysis shows how growing oil output in North
Dakota and  Texas  will prevent the 53-year-old group of 12 oil
producers, mostly situated in the  Middle East , from capitalizing
on the 4.8 million barrel-a-day increase in oil demand it
expects over the next five years.  The supply surge has also contributed to a decline this
year in the price of oil grades on the U.S. Gulf Coast that
influence the price of exports from  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and
Iraq. The Gulf crude Mars Blend has fallen 12 percent this year
to $93.05 a barrel yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  North America  Development of shale deposits will push combined U.S. and
Canadian oil output to 16.9 million barrels a day by 2018, from
14.8 million this year, according to OPEC’s outlook report. It
assumes there’ll be no development of such resources outside
 North America  over the next two decades.  “Until three years ago, oil and NGLs production from the
U.S. was considered to be on a long-term trend of slow, but
steady decline, after having peaked in 1970,” OPEC said.  Two
years ago , the group predicted shale oil would only become a
marginal source of supply.  “Surging production from tight oil plays and NGLs from
shale gas plays has transformed the U.S. supply outlook,” it
said in today’s report.  Total oil output from countries outside OPEC, including
non-crude sources such as natural gas liquids, will increase to
59.3 million barrels a day by 2020, from 52.9 million last year.
This will reduce OPEC’s share of the global oil market to 39
percent at the end of the decade, from 41 percent last year.  Steep Decline  Shale oil production in the U.S. and  Canada  will hit a
plateau from about 2017 because of the steep decline in output
from wells, a transition away from the most productive “sweet
spots” in rock formations, environmental concerns and rising
costs tied to the availability of equipment and skilled labor,
OPEC said.  “The rapid acceleration of tight oil supply in the U.S.,
and, to a degree, in Canada, is not thought to be sustainable
over the long term,” the report said. Demand for OPEC crude
will rebound after 2018 as shale production begins to falter, it
said.  OPEC kept estimates for global oil demand growth through to
2018 in line with those it published last year. World oil
consumption will increase by an average of 900,000 barrels a day
each year to reach 94.4 million a day in 2018, driven by growth
in emerging economies.  Consumption in those nations will increase to 44.4 million
barrels a day in 2018, from 38.9 million barrels a day this
year, overtaking demand in developed nations in the second half
of 2014, according to the report.  December Meeting  OPEC’s members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador ,  Iran ,  Iraq ,
Kuwait, Libya,  Nigeria ,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. It will next meet to review production
targets on Dec. 4 in Vienna.  Group Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri described world
oil markets as well-supplied while speaking in Muscat, Oman, on
Oct. 21. The U.S. shale boom is a “grave concern” for  Africa 
because it may lead to glut in global oil supplies, Nigerian Oil
Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said May 17 in a lecture at
Oxford University in  England .  OPEC’s estimates for the crude it will be required to pump
are lower than current output, even after the group’s production
slumped to its lowest in almost two years in September. Output
fell by 389,700 barrels a day to 30.05 million barrels a day
amid disruptions in  Libya , a separate report from the
secretariat showed on Oct. 10.  OPEC Target  OPEC set a collective production target of 30 million
barrels a day in December 2011, which it has  consistently
exceeded .  The group bolstered forecasts for world oil demand through
to 2035 for the first time since introducing the World Oil
Outlook six years ago, reflecting stronger projections for the
economy.  Global oil consumption will advance by a total of 20
million barrels a day over the next two decades, to 108.5
million barrels a day in 2035. That’s up from the estimate of
107.3 million barrels a day published last year.  The oil industry as a whole will need to invest $5 trillion
on exploration and production in the period to meet this level
of demand, OPEC estimates. Another $1.5 trillion will need to be
spent on refineries, it said.  The report assumes prices for OPEC’s  reference basket  of
crudes, a weighted average of its members’ export grades, will
remain at about $110 a barrel through to 2020 and then advance
to $160, in nominal terms, by 2035.  The  International Energy Agency , an adviser to oil-consuming nations based in Paris, will release its long-term
forecasts for supply and demand on Nov. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  