-- OPEC Exports to Recover Slowly Before Winter, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-11-07T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/opec-exports-to-recover-slowly-before-winter-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will increase crude exports through the end
of this month as shipments from Saudi Arabia and  Iraq  recover
before the northern hemisphere’s winter season, according to
tanker tracker Oil Movements.  OPEC, which supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil,
will increase sailings by 350,000 barrels a day, or 1.5 percent,
to 23.92 million barrels in the four weeks to Nov. 23, the
researcher said today in a report. That compares with 23.57
million in the period to Oct. 26. The figures exclude two of
OPEC’s 12 members, Angola and  Ecuador .  “It’s the beginning of the winter season, so it’s a
seasonal trend, upward trend, which will continue for the next
month-and-a-half,”  Roy Mason , the company’s founder, said by
phone from Halifax,  England . “Also more refiners are coming out
of maintenance” so refinery capacity should increase to reach a
peak sometime in December, he said.  The gain in exports is relatively slow, starting from a low
base after a drop in production during September, Mason said.
“Saudi and Iraqi sailings, although they’re going up, are still
below a year ago,” he said.  Brent crude  traded at $103.79 a
barrel as of 4:17 p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London , after earlier trading at $103.52, the lowest in more
than four months.  Middle Eastern shipments will rise 2.5 percent to 17.66
million barrels a day in the month to Nov. 23, versus 17.23
million in the previous period, according to Oil Movements.
Those figures include non-OPEC nations Oman and Yemen.  Crude on board tankers will decline by about 8 percent from
four weeks prior to 453 million barrels in the week ended Nov.
23, data from Oil Movements show. The researcher calculates
volumes by tallying tanker bookings and excludes crude held on
vessels for storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. It will next meet in Vienna on Dec. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  