-- Morrison Extends Same-Store Sales Decline as Discounters Gain
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-11-07T07:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/morrison-extends-same-store-sales-decline-as-discounters-gain.html
William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW) ,
the smallest of the U.K.’s four main grocery chains, reported
its seventh straight quarter of declining same-store sales after
losing more ground to discounters such as Aldi and Lidl.  Sales at stores open a year or more fell 2.4 percent in the
13 weeks ended Nov. 3, the Bradford, England-based company said
in a statement today. That’s worse than the median of eight
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey for a 1.6 percent drop.  Morrison’s share of the grocery market is being eroded by
competition from both Aldi and Lidl, which are stepping up
expansion in the U.K. to gain price-conscious shoppers. The
retailer has also been hindered by the growth of online and
convenience retailing, where it is seeking to gain a presence.  The retailer blamed the worst same-store sales performance
in almost a year on heavy promotions across the industry in
addition to its lack of an online offering and fewer  convenience
stores  than competitors.  “We expect the market to remain challenging for the
remainder of the year and continue to manage the business
tightly,” the company said in the statement. “Our performance
in the third quarter was in line with our expectations and
accordingly our financial outlook for the full-year remains
unchanged.”  Morrison plans to have 100 convenience stores by the end of
the year, a much smaller estate than  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , which operates
about 1,500 small stores, and  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , which has more
than 500. The retailer plans to start an online service in
January with the help of Internet-only grocer Ocado Plc.  Morrison’s market share fell to 11.2 percent in the 12
weeks ended Oct. 13 from 11.8 percent a year earlier, Kantar
Worldpanel said Oct. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  