-- Mortgage Delinquencies Reach 5-Year Low as Housing Heals
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-11-07T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/mortgage-delinquencies-reach-5-year-low-as-housing-heals.html
The share of U.S. mortgages that are
 seriously delinquent  fell to a five-year low as job gains help
borrowers keep up on payments while rising home prices enable
others to sell.  The percentage of home loans that were more than  90 days 
behind or in the foreclosure process fell to 5.65 percent in the
third quarter from 7.03 percent a year earlier, the  Mortgage
Bankers Association  said in a report today. That was the lowest
rate since the third quarter of 2008, when it was 5.17 percent.  Fewer Americans are falling behind on their payments as the
economy stabilizes and property values rise across the country.
The  jobless rate  in September fell to 7.2 percent, the lowest
since November 2008. The median U.S. home price rose 12.5
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, the National
Association of Realtors said yesterday. Cities hurt worst by the
foreclosure crisis, such as  Las Vegas , Atlanta and Sacramento,
 California , had the biggest increases.  “The speed of the decline in the foreclosure rate is
faster than I anticipated,” Michael Fratantoni, the Mortgage
Bankers Association’s vice president for research and economics,
said in a telephone interview today from  Washington . “The
strength of the housing recovery is benefiting the distressed
portion of the market, clearing it up more quickly.”  The serious-delinquency rate is a gauge of shadow
inventory, or homes likely to end up on the market after seizure
by banks. The percentage of  loans  in the  foreclosure  process at
the end of the third quarter was 3.08 percent, the lowest since
2008 and down from 4.07 percent a year earlier.  Higher-Quality  About 77 percent of loans that are seriously delinquent
were originated in 2007 or earlier, said  Jay Brinkmann , the
Mortgage Bankers Association’s chief economist.  “There were major drops across the board,” Brinkmann said
in a telephone interview today from Washington. “It really
speaks to the higher-quality loans that were made more recently.
And we’re managing to work through the problems of the past.”  While delinquencies and foreclosures are returning to
normal in much of the country, states such as  New Jersey ,  New
York  and  Connecticut , which require court approval for home
seizures, are lagging behind. New Jersey led the nation in the
increase in the percentage of foreclosure actions filed. The
state’s share of loans in foreclosure climbed to 8.28 percent
from 8.01 percent in the second quarter.  In  Florida , a judicial state, 12.6 percent of loans were
seriously delinquent, the highest level in the nation. It was
followed by New Jersey at 12.1 percent and New York at 9.3
percent.  For judicial states, the average rate of loans in
foreclosure was 5.28 percent, compared with 1.66 percent in
nonjudicial states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  