-- OSX Said Planning to File for Bankruptcy Protection Today
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i ,   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-11-08T13:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/osx-said-planning-to-file-for-bankruptcy-protection-tomorrow.html
Eike Batista ’s shipbuilder  OSX Brasil
SA (OSXB3)  is planning to file for bankruptcy protection today,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  OSX, which intends to exclude from the filing three vessels
used as collateral for $1.77 billion of debt, will submit
documents in a  Rio de Janeiro  court, the people said, asking not
to be named as the decision hasn’t been made public. Shares fell
2.1 percent to 46 centavos at 11:32 a.m. in Sao Paulo.  The shipbuilder would follow the former billionaire’s oil
company and its biggest client,  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA (OGXP3) , into protection proceedings. OSX continues to study the
measure, a press department official said by telephone from Rio,
asking not to be named in line with company policy.  The company’s leasing unit, through which it owns the
OSX-1, OSX-2 and OSX-3 platforms, won’t form part of the
judicial recovery petition, as it’s known in  Brazil , they said.
If the platforms were included, they would need to wait the 180-day protection period against creditors to be sold.  Credit Suisse Group AG was hired to help sell OSX-1 and
OSX-2 that guarantee two syndicated loans with a total value of
$1.27 billion, people familiar with the matter said last month.
OSX’s sole international bond of $500 million is also guaranteed
by a vessel, OSX-3.  Alvarez & Marsal Inc., the restructuring company that
worked on the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy case, is
advising OSX, while legal firm Mattos Filho, Veiga Filho, Marrey
Jr. e Quiroga Advogados is advising Batista’s EBX group on debt
restructuring, the people said.  Shipyard Debt  The debt from OSX’s shipyard unit will be included in the
filing for  bankruptcy protection , the people said. The shipyard
unit extended the maturity for a year on a 461 million-real
($200 million) loan from state-run Caixa Economica Federal,
which is guaranteed by Banco Santander SA, according to a
regulatory filing this week. Caixa also granted a loan of 627.4
million reais to the unit, according to its earnings statement.  Since Aug. 18 state development bank BNDES has been pushing
out maturities on a loan for 518 million reais with guarantees
from Banco Votorantim SA and no vessel as collateral, two people
with knowledge said last month.  In an Oct. 31 statement, the shipbuilder said it was ready
to seek bankruptcy protection if management decided that was the
best way to protect its interests.  OSX’s dollar bonds due 2015, which are backed by a contract
to lease the platform to OGX, have fallen 20 cents this year to
84 cents on the dollar. Bondholders hired AlixPartners LLP to
advise on a possible restructuring, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  