-- OTP Drops Most in Three Months on Central Bank: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-11-07T16:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/otp-falls-most-in-three-months-on-central-bank-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, slid the most in more than three months after the
central bank urged the introduction of bankruptcy rules to
protect household borrowers.  The shares fell 4.7 percent to 4,556 forint at the close in
Budapest, the steepest drop since July 19. The stock’s 9.3
percent gain in the previous six trading sessions yesterday
pushed the 14-day relative  strength  index to 73, above the 70
level which some analysts regard as overbought. The RSI slid to
55 today. The benchmark BUX stock  index  dropped 1.7 percent.  The government should introduce further measures to
eliminate exchange-rate risk as foreign-currency loans pose a
“particularly significant” threat to financial stability, the
Magyar Nemzeti Bank said in a report today. Borrowers who can’t
service their debt should be able to declare bankruptcy, the
bank said.  “The central bank comments provided the peg for the
turnaround in OTP shares,” Zsolt Balasy, a Budapest-based
analyst at MKB Bank Zrt., a unit of Bayerische Landesbank, wrote
in an e-mailed report.  “It’s especially the potential
introduction of private bankruptcy which may be scaring
investors.”  The banking industry’s “severely low” profitability may
prompt some “major foreign-owned banks” to exit the market,
the central bank said in today’s report.  OTP rallied earlier this week as lawmakers approved
measures to expand a program supporting foreign-currency
mortgage holders, easing concern the Cabinet will immediately
introduce further rescue steps whose cost would be borne by
banks.  Any further help needs to safeguard financial stability and
banking operations, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said in an
interview at his office in Budapest two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  