-- Tottenham Among Eight Clubs to Advance in Soccer’s Europa League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-11-07T23:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/tottenham-among-eight-clubs-to-advance-in-soccer-s-europa-league.html
Tottenham Hotspur beat Sheriff
Tiraspol 2-1 to join seven other teams including fellow former
champion  Valencia  in reaching the Europa League’s round of 32.  Erik Lamela and  Jermain Defoe  scored last night as
Tottenham, the bookmakers’ favorite to win European soccer’s
second-tier club competition for the third time, stayed perfect
in Group K to move five points clear at the top.  “It was never going to be easy to win and go through,”
Defoe, who scored his club-record 23rd goal in European
competition, told ITV. “Everyone is delighted.”  Salzburg and Fiorentina also have the maximum 12 points
after four group matches and will be joined in the knockout
stage by 2004 winner Valencia, Ludogorets Razgard, Esbjerg,
Rubin Kazan and Dnipro.  The top two teams in each of the  12 groups  advance to the
round of 32 alongside the eight third-place finishers from the
elite  Champions League  group stage. The fifth of six group-stage
games will be played Nov. 28.  Lamela put Tottenham ahead in the 60th minute at White Hart
Lane in  London  with his first goal since joining the club in
August from Roma. Defoe added a penalty kick seven minutes later
to move ahead of Martin Chivers on Spurs’ European scoring list.  Isa then scored in the 72nd minute for Sheriff, the first
goal allowed by Tottenham in this year’s competition. Anzhi
Makhachkala strengthened its hold on second place in the group
with a 1-0 at Tromso.  Stoppage-Time Goal  Salzburg beat Standard Liege 3-1 and Esbjerg defeated
Elfsborg 1-0 to send both winners through from Group C.
Fiorentina won 2-1 at Romanian club Pandurii in Group E on Borja
Valero’s stoppage-time goal, while Dnipro also progressed after
a 2-0 home win over Pacos Ferreira.  Ludogorets’s 1-1 draw with Chornomorets Odesa was enough to
qualify it from Group B, as  PSV Eindhoven  defeated Dinamo Zagreb
2-0. Oleg Kuzmin’s goal gave  Rubin Kazan  a 1-0 victory over
English F.A. Cup champion Wigan Athletic which sent it through
from Group D as Zulte beat Maribor 1-0.  Valencia defeated St. Gallen 3-2 to qualify from Group A,
while Swansea dropped to second place following a 1-1 draw at
10-man Kuban Krasnador. Ibrahima Balde scored in stoppage time
for the home team after Xandao was sent off for a second yellow.  Maccabi  Tel Aviv  beat Frankfurt 4-2 in a meeting of the top
teams in Group F, and APOEL defeated Bordeaux 2-1. Genk drew 2-2
at Rapid Vienna and leads Group G by a point over  Dynamo Kiev ,
which won 2-0 at Thun.  Two-time champion Sevilla continues to lead Group H after
drawing 1-1 with Slovan Liberec, while Estoril and Freiburg
finished 0-0. Real Betis beat Guimaraes 1-0 to move ahead of
Lyon, which drew 1-1 at Rijeka, in Group I.  In Group J, first-place Trabzonspor beat Legia Warsaw 2-0
and Lazio defeated Apollon 2-1. AZ Alkmaar’s 1-0 win over
Shakhter Karagandy moved it into a tie in Group L with PAOK,
which drew 0-0 at Maccabi Haifa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 