-- Paulson, Blackstone to Triple Money on Extended Stay IPO
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-11-07T21:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/paulson-blackstone-to-triple-money-on-extended-stay-ipo.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Centerbridge
Partners LP and Paulson & Co. are poised to almost triple their
investment when Extended Stay America Inc. goes public, three
years after the firms bought the hotel chain out of bankruptcy.  The initial public offering, set to raise as much as $593
million when it prices next week, will represent a surge in
value for the owners after a rebound in the U.S. hotel market.
For Blackstone investors, the deal is doubly sweet, as the firm
previously made 3.5 times its money buying and selling Extended
Stay during the buyout boom that ended in 2007.  “There are few lodging investments that are better than
this return,” said Bjorn Hanson, dean of the New York
University Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports
Management and former chairman of hospitality and leisure for
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. “It’s impressive.”  Extended Stay (STAY) , which owns almost 700 mid-price hotels in
the U.S. and  Canada , plans to sell 28.25 million shares for $18
to $21 each in its IPO, according to a regulatory filing. At the
$19.50 midpoint, the shares held by New York-based Blackstone,
Centerbridge and Paulson would be valued at $3.26 billion, based
on each owning 55.8 million common shares after the sale, the
filing shows. The firms aren’t selling any stock in the IPO.  Together with about $1 billion of distributions from
Extended Stay, the owners will hold a total of $4.2 billion of
realized and unrealized value, according to the filing. That’s
about 2.7 times the $1.58 billion of equity they invested when
they bought the company in October 2010 after winning a
bankruptcy auction that May, a fund-marketing document obtained
by Bloomberg News shows. The firms reinvested $626 million of
Extended Stay’s cash flow into renovating the properties.  Market Bottom  The firms’ return reflects the timing of the purchase near
the bottom of the market and the financial condition of the
hotel chain at the time, Hanson said.  The owners benefited from a rebound in lending as the
Federal Reserve pushed down interest rates to almost zero,
fueling demand for riskier assets. They borrowed $3.6 billion
last November to refinance Extended Stay’s debt, allowing them
to recoup about half their equity investment.  The refinancing included a $2.5 billion mortgage that was
sold as bonds in January, at the time, the biggest offering of
commercial-mortgage backed securities since 2007.  Peter Rose, a spokesman for Blackstone, declined to comment
on Extended Stay, as did Paulson’s  Armel Leslie  and Susanne
Clark of Centerbridge.  Rising Occupancies  The firms bought  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Extended
Stay just as the U.S.  hotel  industry was beginning to recover
from the recession. Average daily room rates and occupancy,
known as revenue per available room, rose 5.5 percent this year
through September, after 6.8 percent growth in all of 2012 and
an 8.2 percent rise in 2011, according to STR, a travel-research
company based in Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  “Fundamentals turned positive in the second quarter of
2010, when demand growth outpaced supply growth for the first
time in years,” said Kevin Mallory, global head of CBRE Hotels,
the lodging-specialty practice of commercial-property brokerage
 CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  “Increased liquidity in the capital markets,
combined with a recovery in fundamentals, has driven strong
investor interest in hotel-sector investments.”  Wi-Fi, Breakfast  After their purchase of Extended Stay, Blackstone, Paulson
and Centerbridge brought in Jim Donald, the former head of
Starbucks Corp., as chief executive officer, renovated
properties, consolidated five brands under the Extended Stay
name and introduced amenities such as free Wi-Fi and breakfast.
Its average daily rate rose to $52.34 in the 12 months ended in
June from $41.63 in the year ended September 2010, according to
the IPO filing. Average occupancy in 2012 was 73.3 percent,
compared with 61.4 percent for the hotel industry, the filing
shows.  Extended Stay caters to people traveling for work or moving
homes and looking to rent apartment-like rooms by the week or
month. The company is the largest U.S. owner of mid-price, long-stay hotels. The average stay in its hotels last year was 28
days, compared with 2.5 days for traditional hotels, according
to its filing. It is seeking more shorter-stay and corporate
guests who would pay higher rates.  Long-stay hotels, a relatively young concept with large
growth potential, “has among the best economics of any lodging
segment,” said NYU’s Hanson. They “do not require 24-hour
front-desk operation and for many, housekeeping services are
optional. The barriers to entry are very low but there is also a
relatively limited number of developers and brands.”  Newer Segment  The company has potential for growth as its name becomes
more well-known, said Lukas Hartwich, a lodging analyst at Green
Street Advisors Inc., a property-research firm in Newport Beach,
 California .  “It’s a newer segment of the hotel market and I don’t
think it has the same recognition for your average hotel
guest,” he said. “I bet most people know what a Marriott or a
Hilton looks like. I’m not so sure they know what an Extended
Stay is.”  Blackstone’s real-estate investments have been among its
best performers this year, helping increase third-quarter profit
by 3 percent. The company slumped 4.9 percent to $26.11 at 4:15
p.m. in New York trading, trimming its gain to 67 percent in
2013.  The world’s biggest manager of alternative assets, such as
private equity and property, chalked up a bigger return, at
least so far, the previous time it bought Extended Stay. In May
2004, the firm’s real estate and private-equity funds teamed up
to acquire the chain for $3.1 billion, with each fund investing
$352.1 million of equity capital, or $704.2 million combined,
according to fund documents obtained by Bloomberg.  Lightstone Sale  Three years later, when buyouts were soaring thanks to
cheap financing from the commercial-mortgage backed securities
market, Blackstone sold Extended Stay to another private-equity
firm, Lightstone Group LLC, for $8 billion. Each Blackstone fund
collected proceeds of about $1.22 billion, for a gain of about
250 percent, according to the fund documents.  The  sale  of Extended Stay was completed the week before
Blackstone itself  went public  in June 2007, close to the
market’s top. When defaults in subprime home mortgages spread
throughout credit markets, Lightstone couldn’t refinance
Extended Stay’s debt, and the hotel chain filed for bankruptcy
in June 2009. John Paulson, of Paulson & Co., made $15 billion
for his investors in 2007 by betting against subprime mortgages.  Top Investment  Blackstone made its first investment in the long-stay
lodging business in November 2001, buying the Atlanta-based
chain of Homestead Studio Suites for $740 million. The firm
consolidated that and other similar hotel purchases into
Extended Stay when it acquired that company.  Homestead turned out to be the firm’s top real estate
investment to date, by multiples of cash invested, Jonathan Gray, global head of real estate for Blackstone, said at an
investment conference in November 2011. The firm put in $119
million of equity and realized proceeds of $729 million on
Homestead, according to a fund-marketing document.  “The real question as investors is, can you buy assets at
attractive prices?” Gray said at the time. Homestead “was
right after 9/11 and we went on to have 28 months in a row of
negative same-store sales. You might have said, ‘Wow, that
should be a really bad investment.’ In fact, that turned out to
be the best investment we ever made.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  