-- Police Found Blunkett Voicemails in News Corp. Lawyer’s Safe
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-07T15:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/police-found-blunkett-voicemails-in-news-corp-lawyer-s-safe.html
Recordings of voice mails left by
former Home Secretary David Blunkett on the phone of a woman he
was having an affair with were discovered in the safe of  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. lawyer.  Police found the tapes and a draft News of the World
article about Blunkett’s three-year relationship with Kimberly
Quinn in Tom Crone’s safe at News Corp.’s U.K. unit, Andrew
Edis, a prosecution lawyer, told the jury today. The prosecution
said the story, which was published in 2004, was the result of
phone hacking.  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News
Corp.’s U.K. unit and  Andy Coulson , a 45 year-old former editor
of the now defunct News of the World, are among eight people
standing trial for a string of offenses stemming from wrongdoing
at News Corp. U.K. tabloids. Crone, the company’s former lawyer,
isn’t accused of wrongdoing.  Rupert Murdoch , the company’s chairman, closed the News of
the World tabloid in July 2011 in a bid to defuse a scandal over
revelations journalists had hacked the phone of a missing
teenager,  Milly Dowler , who was later found murdered.  The messages related to Blunkett were “deeply personal and
intrusive,” Detective Constable Tim Hargreaves told the court
today.   Edis played a recording of a conversation in which Coulson
confronted the lawmaker before it was published. Coulson refused
to reveal his sources and said he was “sure it was right.”  ‘True’ Story  “I wouldn’t be exposing myself in this way unless I
believed the story to be true,” Coulson, who later became a
media adviser to Prime Minister  David Cameron , said to Blunkett.
“I am confident.”  The other defendants include Stuart Kuttner, the 73-year-old former managing editor of the News of the World, and Ian Edmondson, a 44-year-old former news editor, who are both
accused of phone hacking. The newspaper’s one-time royal
reporter,  Clive Goodman , 56, is charged with conspiring to
commit misconduct in a public office.  Brooks’s husband, her former assistant  Cheryl Carter , and
the U.K. unit’s former head of security, Mark Hanna, face
charges of conspiring to pervert the course of justice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  