-- Polio Threatens Europe as Virus Makes Comeback Amid Wars
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-11-08T10:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/polio-threatens-europe-as-virus-makes-comeback-amid-wars.html
Polio, the crippling virus driven to
the brink of extinction, may return to  Europe  as regional
conflicts undermine a $10 billion eradication campaign.  Polio’s re-appearance in Syria last month after a 14 year
absence raises the risk that the virus will hitch a ride on
unsuspecting refugees fleeing the country and return to areas,
including Europe, that have been polio-free for decades,
according to a letter published in the  The Lancet  medical
journal today.  “Polio is making a comeback,” Martin Eichner, a professor
at the University of Tuebingen who co-authored the letter to The
Lancet, said by phone today. Eichner and a German colleague
warned that the vaccine used in the U.S. and Europe offers only
partial protection against infection and called for heightened
screening of sewage systems near refugee settlements in Turkey
and Jordan. Syrian war refugees, moreover, have begun arriving
in Western Europe, including Sweden and Germany.  Syria isn’t the only area where poliomyelitis, as the
disease is formally known, is rearing its head. It has
resurfaced in the Horn of  Africa  as well as in sewage samples in
 Israel  and  Egypt . So far this year, 322 cases have been reported
globally, up from last year’s record low of 223. The gain
snapped five years of consecutive decline, according to data
from the  World Health Organization .  The polio virus, which is spread through feces, attacks the
nervous system and can cause paralysis within hours, and death
in as many as 10 percent of its victims. There is no cure.  Cases of polio, which paralyzed generations around the
globe and crippled former U.S. President  Franklin D. Roosevelt ,
have dropped 99 percent since 1988, largely thanks to a global
vaccination campaign backed by Bill and  Melinda Gates .  Slowing Transmission  More than $10 billion has been invested to eradicate the
disease, according to the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, a
partnership between the WHO, Rotary International, U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention and the  United Nations
Children’s Fund . The  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  has donated
or pledged almost $2 billion, making it the biggest donor after
the U.S. government.  Those efforts have helped stop transmission in all but
three countries:  Nigeria ,  Afghanistan , and  Pakistan . While cases
from those nations are lower this year than in 2012, the virus
is re-emerging elsewhere.  The WHO said last week that 10 cases had been confirmed
among 22 children who had become paralyzed in  Syria ’s
northeastern Deir Ezzour province, near the border with  Iraq .
The proportion of children under age five in Syria who’ve
received three protective doses of oral polio vaccine plunged to
68 percent from 99 percent before the conflict began, according
to  data  from the Geneva-based agency.  Vaccination Campaign  More than 20 million children will be vaccinated in Syria
and neighboring countries as the WHO and UNICEF try to contain
the outbreak, the two organizations said in a joint statement
today.  Genetic analysis suggests the virus responsible for the
cases in Syria is the same as the one found in Israel and Egypt,
and came from Pakistan, showing how eradicating the virus at its
source is key to stamping out sporadic outbreaks globally, said
Hamid Jafari, director of the Global Polio Eradication
Initiative.  Sewage Samples  “What conflict does is that it produces that environment,
whereby when poliovirus lands it has plenty of opportunity to
thrive, circulate and paralyze children,” Jafari said yesterday
in a telephone interview.  Twenty-two vaccinators have been murdered in Pakistan since
December, and militants in North Waziristan have banned
vaccination in the area, he said. A Pakistan court last year
sentenced a doctor to 33 years in prison for running a fake
vaccination program in Abbottabad, the town where  Osama bin Laden  hid for as long as five years, in a bid to obtain a DNA
sample from those living in the compound where the al-Qaeda
leader was shot dead by Navy SEALs in 2011.  Another 180 polio cases have been reported in Somalia this
year, and smaller numbers in Kenya, Ethiopia and  South Sudan .  The virus was also found in sewage and feces samples in
Israel, which represents a threat for Europe, the European
Centre for Disease Prevention and Control said in September. No
actual polio cases have been reported in Israel.  Two vaccines are used to protect children: an oral
inoculation that contains the live virus, and a so-called
inactivated shot that delivers a disarmed version of the
pathogen.  Most Western European countries and the U.S. switched to
the disarmed injection more than a decade ago because the oral
vaccine was linked to some polio infections. While it prevents
paralysis, the shot doesn’t fully protect against infection of
the virus. That may enable it to circulate undetected in the
region, Eichner and his colleague Stefan Brockmann of the
Regional Public Health Office in Reutlingen,  Germany  wrote in
The Lancet.  Eichner said eradication is still possible. “We were so
close to getting it done that I still think it is achievable,”
he said. “We will do it, but it will be harder than a couple of
years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  