-- Qantas to Close Maintenance Plant as Boeing 747s Retired
-- B y   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-11-07T23:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/qantas-to-close-maintenance-plant-as-boeing-747s-retired.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s
largest carrier, said it will close its heavy maintenance plant
in Victoria state at the end of March as the airline retires its
fleet of  Boeing Co. (BA)  747 jets.  “There is not enough work to keep our Avalon base viable
and productive,” Lyell Strambi, chief executive officer of the
airline’s domestic unit, said in a statement to the ASX today.
“The only realistic answer is to close Avalon and have the
maintenance performed on our 747s at another facility.”  The closure will affect 53 employees and result in one-off
costs for the 2014 financial year of about A$28 million ($26
million), with net benefits from the following year, the airline
said. It is assessing whether to carry out the work at other
Australian sites, or move the work to  Germany ,  Singapore , Hong
Kong, the U.K. or U.S. The airline will continue heavy
maintenance of aircraft at its facility in Brisbane, according
to the statement.  Qantas announced last year it would shed 450 engineers at
bases in Sydney and Avalon as it tries to pare labor costs that
were the highest among major listed carriers worldwide. The
latest job losses at Avalon are on top of last year’s announced
staff reduction, Luke Enright, a spokesman at Qantas said by
phone.  The airline, which says it employs about 4,400 people in
its engineering division, in May 2012 announced it would close
its heavy maintenance facility at Melbourne airport and
ultimately consolidate this type of maintenance to one site,
probably  Brisbane . Qantas said today that about 246 contractors
would also be affected by the closure at Avalon.  Heavy maintenance refers to major overhauls of aircraft
that can take as long as two months of engineering work. Line
maintenance, which Qantas says it undertakes at 19 airports
around Australia, is the regular checks and servicing of
aircraft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  