-- Qualcomm’s First-Quarter Sales Forecast Trails Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-11-07T21:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/qualcomm-s-first-quarter-sales-forecast-falls-short-of-estimates.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest maker of
chips for smartphones, forecast fiscal first-quarter sales that
may fall short of analysts’ estimates amid a shift to less-expensive handsets that has curbed chip prices.  Sales in the period ending in December will be $6.3 billion
to $6.9 billion, the San Diego-based company said yesterday in a
statement. That compared with an average analyst estimate of
$7.01 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit
before certain costs will be $1.10 to $1.20 a share.  Customers have been placing more orders for parts that run
in cheaper devices, Chief Operating Officer Steve Mollenkopf
said in an interview. A greater portion of business from less-expensive components may hurt Qualcomm’s revenue growth, which
has been surging since 2010 amid brisk smartphone demand, said
Stacy Rasgon, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “They’re seeing a bit of a slowdown in chipsets,” said
Rasgon, who has the equivalent of a buy rating on Qualcomm
shares. “This wasn’t a bad report, but it’s definitely not
good.”  Sales in fiscal 2014 will be $26 billion to $27.5 billion,
the company said, compared with an average analyst estimate of
$27.5 billion. At the midpoint of that range, revenue growth
would be about 8 percent -- a deceleration from annual gains of
more than 25 percent for the past three  fiscal years .  The stock fell 3.8 percent to $67.09 at the close in New
York. The shares have climbed 8.5 percent this year, compared
with a 29 percent gain in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  ‘Downshift’ Seen  While demand for more expensive smartphones is still
increasing, it’s not keeping pace with that for lower-cost
models, Mollenkopf said.  “In the near term, we’re seeing a little bit of a
downshift in terms of tier,” he said. “In the second half we
continue to see strong units and a little bit stronger mix.”  Net income in the fourth quarter, which ended Sept. 29,
rose 18 percent to $1.5 billion, or 86 cents a share, from $1.27
billion, or 73 cents, a year earlier. Revenue climbed 33 percent
to $6.48 billion. Analysts on average had estimated earnings of
94 cents a share on revenue of $6.35 billion.  Qualcomm’s yearly sales have more than doubled since 2010.
The company gets the majority of its revenue from processors and
modem chips used in phones. The bulk of its profit comes from
licensing patents that cover many of the fundamentals of modern
phone networks.  Double Digits  Chief Executive Officer Paul Jacobs said that profit and
revenue will continue to increase at percentages in the double
digits for the next five years.  “We’re investing in a bunch of new opportunities and
there’s a lot of stuff still coming,” he said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “I don’t think we believe that it’s over
by any stretch.”  The company is trying to expand outside of phones into
tablets and portable computers. It hasn’t yet translated its
success in the mobile market into desktop and laptop computing,
which is dominated by Intel Corp.’s products.  Qualcomm, Intel and other companies trying to win share in
phones and tablets also face the challenge of persuading the two
leading mobile-device providers, Apple Inc. and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , to pass up their in-house components in favor
of external suppliers.  Qualcomm provides modems to Apple and supplies both
processors and modems to Samsung. Together, the two companies
account for more than 40 percent of smartphone shipments and
more than half the tablet market.  BlackBerry Assets  Jacobs also said the chipmaker looked at some of the assets
of struggling smartphone maker  BlackBerry Ltd. (BBRY) , a Qualcomm
customer, before it unveiled a turnaround plan when a takeover
deal with  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  collapsed. BlackBerry
instead said it would raise $1 billion in convertible bonds.  “There were some assets that we were interested in and we
were looking at, but obviously they got a new refinancing,”
Jacobs said yesterday.  When asked whether Qualcomm would contribute to attempts to
revive BlackBerry, he said, “they have their own strategy.
We’re waiting to hear where they are headed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  