-- Rachel Benepe, Eveillard Protege Managing Gold Fund, Dies at 37
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-11-07T21:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/rachel-benepe-eveillard-protege-managing-gold-fund-dies-at-37.html
Rachel Benepe, a protege of stock-picker Jean-Marie Eveillard at First Eagle Investment Management
LLC and manager of its $1.5 billion  First Eagle Gold Fund (SGGDX) , has
died. She was 37.  She died on Nov. 2 at the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,
 Minnesota , according to her mother, Sharon Benepe. The cause was
cancer, which was diagnosed several months ago.  The First Eagle Gold Fund, which Benepe (pronounced BEN-e-pea) managed since 2009, has outperformed competitors in recent
years as  gold prices  declined. The fund beat 96 percent of its
peers over the past three years, with an average annual decline
of 19 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An analyst of gold, metals and mining, retail, automobiles
and beverages, Benepe also helped manage New York-based First
Eagle’s Global, Overseas and U.S. Value funds as a senior
analyst on the company’s Global Value team.  “No words can adequately express our sorrow over her
passing or our gratitude for the meaningful contributions she
made at First Eagle,” the firm said in a  statement . “Those of
us who knew and worked with Rachel experienced her unwavering
passion for investing and admired the diligence and care she
brought to her work.”  Chairman and Chief Investment Officer John Arnhold, in a e-mailed statement today, called Benepe “a highly respected and
valued member of our company.”  Gold Bug  A graduate of  Columbia Business School  in New York, Benepe
had a career that coincided with surging investor interest in
gold and other precious metals. Gold prices have risen every
year since 2001, reaching a record $1,921.15 an ounce in
September 2011. That run is set to be broken this year, as
prices averaged $1,315.91 in October.  The First Eagle Gold Fund was started by Eveillard in 1993
when the parent company was Societe Generale Asset Management
Corp. In 1999, New York investment bank Arnhold & S.
Bleichroeder Inc. bought a majority interest in that company
from Paris-based Societe Generale SA and brought the funds under
its First Eagle brand.  Under Benepe’s management, the Gold Fund had 21 percent of
its assets in bullion as of Sept. 30, according to the company.
It also invests in mining and other gold-related companies, and
its top equity  holdings  were Agnico Eagle Mines Ltd. in Toronto,
Goldcorp Inc. in  Vancouver , British Columbia, and Randgold
Resources Ltd., based in  Jersey ,  Channel Islands .  Following Eveillard  Benepe succeeded Eveillard as the fund’s manager in March
2009. She managed the fund with Abhay Deshpande until March
2012, by herself from March 2012 to March 2013, and with Matthew McLennan since then, according to the company.  “As a portfolio manager she traveled all over the world,
visited the mines and the gold companies,” her mother said
today in an interview. “It developed into a very big deal.”  She said Eveillard, who became a senior adviser to the firm
in 2009, was her daughter’s “teacher and mentor, and she had
the utmost respect for him.”  Unlike some gold bugs who see the metal as a get-rich
investment, Benepe viewed it as “the ultimate downside
protection,” she said at a Bloomberg Precious Metals conference
in  New York  in 2012.  She recommended that investors allocate 5 percent to 10
percent of their investable assets to the precious metal. More
than that, and “you’re speculating that the price of gold is
only going to move up, and that’s not necessarily true,” she
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in May 2010, days
after gold reached $1,249 an ounce.  Hedge Strategy  “Once fear starts to subside a little bit, people will
move out of gold,” she said. “It’s not always going to be a
one-way trade. It’s really there as a hedge, to protect your
money in the face of that risk actually coming to fruition,
rather than that you should own it because it’s an investment
and you’re going to expect to make money.”  Rachel Mara Benepe was born on June 10, 1976, in  St. Paul ,
Minnesota, the youngest of three children of John Benepe, a
dentist, and the former Sharon Shear. Her father died when she
was a teenager.  She attended St. Paul Academy, a private school, and, in
1998, graduated from the  University of Pennsylvania , in
Philadelphia, where she studied history and was a letter-winner
in softball in 1995 and 1996. She joined Prudential Securities
in  New York City  as an investment-banking trainee, then moved to
research at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., focusing on metals
and mining.  Early Career  After receiving a master’s degree in business
administration from Columbia Business School in 2003, she
researched beverages at Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York, and at
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , then worked as an investment analyst focusing on
consumer, retail, media and industrials for New York-based
Artemis Advisors LLC, which ran funds that sought to profit from
stocks rising and falling.  She joined First Eagle in April 2008.  Her interests included squash and golf, her mother said.  Survivors include her mother and two older brothers, Adam
and Jason.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  