-- Traders Bemoan Slump Squeezing Deutsche Bank to HSBC: Currencies
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-11-07T09:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/traders-bemoan-slump-squeezing-deutsche-bank-to-hsbc-currencies.html
Currency traders from  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  to  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , after enjoying a boom just a few months
ago amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  was preparing to pare
record stimulus, are again seeing their profits squeezed.  Daily trading on ICAP Plc’s EBS electronic platform tumbled
to an average $77 billion in October, the least since before
January 2006, according to the London-based broker. Deutsche
Bank, the biggest currency trader, said Oct. 29 that a “flat”
market was “negatively affecting FX revenues,” while HSBC said
this week that revenue from foreign-exchange tumbled 10 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier.  As speculation built that the Fed will keep pumping $85
billion a month into the financial system through early 2014,
volatility in the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market
fell, making it harder for traders to profit from price swings.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index dropped as
much as 37 percent from a more than one-year high in June.  “We’ve had so many false dawns in a change in the monetary
environment that you won’t see big moves until something
actually happens,” Kit Juckes, a global strategist at  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  in  London , said in a phone interview yesterday.
“I’m looking forward to 2014 and thinking we’ll probably be
stuck in the same range.”  Fed Tapering  The U.S. central bank won’t start reducing its bond
purchases until March, according to the median estimate of 40
economists surveyed Oct. 17-18. Policy makers surprised
investors who expected the Fed to announce a taper on Sept. 18
by saying that stimulus would continue for the time being. They
reiterated that position last week. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
first hinted back in June that the bank may dial back the
program this year if the U.S. recovery takes hold.  JPMorgan’s volatility index fell last month to as low as
7.55 percent, from this year’s high of 11.96 percent in June.
The next month, firms including Deutsche Bank said they enjoyed
increases in revenue from  currency trading .  While the gauge has rebounded about 8 percent from its low,
prospects for further increases before year-end are slim,
according to Maria Heiden, an  investment adviser  at Berenberg
Asset Management.  Fund Shuttered  “Our economists aren’t expecting any macroeconomic events
and we’re not seeing any volatility showing up until next
year,” Heiden, whose Hamburg-based firm oversees the equivalent
of about $38 billion, said in a Nov. 5 phone interview.  The difficult trading environment has already claimed at
least one victim. FX Concepts LLC, the firm founded by  John Taylor  that with $12 billion in assets in 2009 was the world’s
largest currency hedge fund, said last month it was shutting its
investment-management business.  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest lender,
said “unfavorable movements in global exchange rates”
contributed to a 94 percent drop in earnings when reporting its
third-quarter results last month.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the fourth-biggest
currency trader, said the same day that foreign-exchange revenue
declined, mainly in “the spot and options businesses.”  HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank by value, said Nov. 4 that
profits from currencies, which account for the biggest chunk of
its global markets business, fell to $660 million last quarter,
from $736 million a year earlier.  Revenue Declines  SocGen’s currencies,  fixed income  and commodities business
was “resilient” in the face of an unfavorable market, with
income from the assets dropping 24 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, the French lender said today. Commerzbank
AG said trading foreign exchange and credit products had been
“markedly more difficult,” leading to a decline in revenues.  Shani Halstead, a London-based spokeswoman for HSBC,
declined to comment. Sebastian Howell at Deutsche Bank in London
had no immediate comment, while UBS’s Hana Dunn, also in London,
wouldn’t elaborate on the bank’s recent earnings statement.  Smaller price swings can make foreign-exchange trading
attractive for investors wanting to protect against declines in
other assets, according to Axel Merk, who oversees about $450
million of currencies as the head of  Palo Alto , California-based
Merk Investments LLC.  “Currencies’ low volatility and low correlation may help
buffer the portfolio when other asset classes tumble,” Merk
wrote in an e-mailed report on Nov. 5. “Adding an actively
managed currency component into a portfolio may help protect
against downside risks.”  Manipulation Probe  Volatility can wipe out profits of carry traders who make
money by borrowing where  interest rates  are low to invest in
higher-yielding assets elsewhere. Deutsche Bank’s G-10 FX Carry
Basket index has climbed to 115.6 as of 9 a.m. in London, from a
14-month low of 110.5 on Aug. 27.  The slide in foreign-exchange trading coincides with
investigations of at least seven banks, including Deutsche Bank,
HSBC and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , for the potential manipulation of
currency rates. The banks have said they’re cooperating with
authorities. No one has been accused of wrongdoing.  At the same time, stricter regulations such as the European
Union’s revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and
the 2010 Dodd Frank Act in the U.S. threaten earnings.  The average daily volume on ICAP’s EBS platform has dropped
almost 50 percent since February, when trading averaged $149
billion a day, the firm said in  data  released this week. The
average across this year is $112 billion.  “There are some occasions as an active currency manager
when you need to have the patience to just stand aside and see
how things develop,” Thomas Kressin, the Munich-based head of
European foreign-exchange at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said in an Oct. 25 phone interview. “What we’ve been doing
recently is keeping risk budgets tight, and not moving too far
away from home.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  