-- Radian CEO Says He Didn’t Mean to Be a Downer on Call
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-11-07T21:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/radian-ceo-says-he-didn-t-mean-to-be-a-downer-on-call.html
     Nov. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Radian Group Inc. Chief Executive
Officer S.A. Ibrahim said he’s still optimistic for the mortgage
insurer’s outlook, after highlighting challenges the company
faces on a conference call today.  “All we wanted to do was be realistic and tell the market
that the environment in the housing market has changed,”
Ibrahim said in an interview. “It was intended to be more a
realistic expectation-setting, rather than a downer.”  Radian shares  tumbled  as much as 9.2 percent after Ibrahim
said the Philadelphia-based company faces increased competition
and a decline in mortgage originations. He said in the
subsequent interview the company is on track to show the
potential for sustained earnings in 2015, which would let Radian
benefit from tax  assets  tied to past losses. The company today
posted a third-quarter loss of $12.7 million.  “Nothing in today’s call was supposed to say we’re not
going to get there,” Ibrahim said. “We’re still comfortable
that we’ll get there.”  Rising interest rates have increased borrowing costs for
consumers this year, threatening to slow the housing recovery
that’s boosted shares of mortgage insurers such as Radian and
 MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  Both companies have more than doubled this
year in New York trading.  The housing rebound has drawn newcomers such as  Essent
Group Ltd. (ESNT)  and NMI Holdings Inc. to the market. Essent, backed
by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., sold
shares last month in an initial public offering.  Ibrahim said on the call that Radian had reduced rates by
five basis points to match competitors’ price decreases. Rival
 Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  has said it is cutting prices for the
coverage.  Radian fell 8.6 percent to $13.27 at 4:05 p.m. in New York.
Milwaukee-based MGIC dropped 6.4 percent. Essent slipped 3.6
percent to $21.31 after trading as low as $20.80.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  