-- Raising Interest Rates Won’t Stop a Housing Boom, Turner Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-11-07T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/raising-interest-rates-won-t-stop-a-housing-boom-turner-says.html
Central banks may fail to slow a real
estate boom by raising interest rates, forcing them to use
financial regulations instead to prevent a bubble, former U.K.
Financial Services Authority Chairman Adair Turner said.  Regulators should raise capital requirements for banks
holding real estate assets and limit how much they can lend in
relation to borrowers’ income if house-price gains accelerate,
Turner said in prepared remarks for a speech he will give in
 Chicago  today.  “Those levers need to be more robust and more extensive
than those so far agreed within the global regulatory reform
program,” said Turner, who took over the FSA a week after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  Turner said last month that Britain risks repeating the
debt-fueled binge that led to the credit crisis, following
government policies to stoke the housing market. U.K. house
prices rose for the ninth month in a row in October as low
interest rates and an improving economy boosted demand,
according to a study published by Halifax yesterday.  The global financial system produces too much debt, Turner
will say in the speech, with “only a small proportion of credit
expansion” financing the real economy. A tax on some borrowing
may help to “lean against the bias of the free market toward
excess credit creation,” he said.  The U.K. government’s Help to Buy program allows people to
buy homes costing as much as 600,000 pounds with as little as a
5 percent down payment. The program began in April with
interest-free loans for buyers of newly built properties and the
second phase -- mortgage guarantees covering most homes -- was
brought forward to last month from January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  