-- Treasuries Cheap Versus Peers in Blankfein’s ‘Brightest Spot’
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-11-07T12:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/treasuries-are-cheapest-versus-non-u-s-debt-in-three-years.html
Treasuries are the cheapest versus
their international counterparts in more than three years on
speculation the Federal Reserve will curb its bond-buying
program in the months ahead.  U.S. government securities due in 10 years or more yield
1.06 percentage points more than non-U.S. sovereign debt, the
most since 2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. As
recently as September 2012, Treasuries yielded less than the
rest of the world on average. Lloyd Blankfein, the chief
executive of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said the U.S. is the
“brightest spot” in the global economy.  “Treasuries are going to be on data watch,” said Orlando Green, a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in  London . “With the European Central Bank
looking more dovish and the Fed more hawkish, or at least less
dovish, you are looking for Treasuries to underperform.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  were little changed at 2.64
percent as of 6:44 a.m.  New York  time, based on Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the 2.5 percent note due August 2023
was 98 26/32. The yield is still less than the average of 3.51
percent over the past decade.  German 10-year yields were at 1.74 percent. Treasuries
yielded 90 basis points more than their German counterparts,
compared with an average of 60 basis points in the past 12
months.  Policy Meetings  The ECB will keep its main interest rate unchanged at a
record-low 0.5 percent at a meeting today, based on Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  Treasuries have fallen 2.2 percent this year through
yesterday, while German bonds dropped 1.3 percent and Japanese
bonds gained 2.5 percent, according to the Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes.  U.S. 10-year notes rose yesterday on speculation the Fed
will keep its target interest rate at almost zero for an
extended period when it starts stimulus cuts.  The central bank is buying $45 billion of Treasury debt and
$40 billion of mortgage securities a month to support the
economy by putting downward pressure on borrowing costs.  Policy makers will begin tapering the program in March,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey conducted Oct. 17-18.  Growth Slows  Gross domestic product grew at an annualized 2 percent rate
in the third quarter after expanding 2.5 percent in the previous
three months, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before Commerce Department figures today.
A separate report today will show initial claims for jobless
insurance fell to 335,000, based on responses from economists.  The U.S. added 120,000 jobs in October, the Bloomberg
surveys indicate before the Labor Department reports the figure
tomorrow. Employment increased 148,000 in September and 193,000
in August.  “The brightest spot, I think, is the U.S., where everybody
is very focused on the shallowness of the recovery, but the
recovery has been established,” Blankfein said earlier this
week at a conference in  Washington . “Globally, I think we’re
going to muddle through. Lower growth than we want. But largely
conditions are favorable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  