-- Treasuries Rise as ECB Rate Cut Boosts Demand Before Jobs Report
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-11-07T22:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/treasury-10-year-notes-extend-gains-after-ecb-cuts-interest-rate.html
Treasuries rose, pushing the yield on
five-year notes to almost the lowest level since June, as  U.S.
debt  lured buyers after the  European Central Bank  cut its
benchmark  interest rate  to a record low.  Benchmark 10-year note yields dropped for a second straight
day even as a report showed the economy grew at an annualized
2.8 percent rate in the third quarter, exceeding forecasts for a
2 percent gain. The ECB reduced the main refinancing rate by a
quarter point to 0.25 percent after a drop in inflation to the
slowest pace in four years. A report tomorrow is forecast to
show U.S. employers added jobs at a slower pace last month amid
speculation on the timing of a  Federal Reserve  tapering of its
$85 billion of monthly bond-buying.  “Today’s move is indicative of what’s going on with
central banks setting expectations,” said  Brian Edmonds , the
head of interest-rates trading in  New York  at Cantor Fitzgerald
LP, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed, referring
to the ECB cut. “If we’re going to be at zero to 0.25 percent
for a while, we don’t have much room to back up in terms of
higher yields. It will take a really strong employment number to
increase the odds of a December tapering.”  Benchmark 10-year yields fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.60 percent as of 4:59 p.m. New York time,
based on Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of the 2.5
percent note due August 2023 added 3/8, or $3.75 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 5/32. The yield fell as much as five basis points,
the most since Oct. 22.  Bond Rally  Treasury trading  volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , rose to $393.4 billion,
the highest level this month, from $302 billion yesterday. It
fell to a 2013 low of $147.8 billion on Aug. 9. The high was
$662.3 billion on May 22.  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Merrill Lynch
MOVE Index was at 66.5, lower than the 2013 average of 71.86.  Thirty-year bonds  led  today’s rally, with yields dropping
six basis points to 3.71 percent. The Fed purchased $1.47
billion in Treasuries maturing between February 2036 and August
2043 today as part of its stimulus program.  “There is good relative value in Treasuries,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government-debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “The ECB cut rates and we are
at cheaper levels, which are all more bullish for Treasuries.
Investors should buy dips in prices.”  Low Yields  The  yield  on the five-year note dropped three basis points
to 1.31 percent after falling as low as 1.27 percent. It touched
1.25 percent on Oct. 30, the lowest level since June 19.  “ECB cuts with hints for more,”  Bill Gross , co-founder
and manager of the $247.9 billion Total Return fund at  Newport
Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote
in a note posted on Twitter. “Easy money everywhere now.”  Gross said he favors shorter-term Treasuries.  Treasuries were the cheapest relative to international
counterparts in more than three years on speculation the Fed
will curb its bond-buying program. U.S. government securities
due in 10 years or more yield 1.06 percentage points more than
non-U.S. sovereign debt, the most since 2010, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. As recently as September 2012,
Treasuries yielded less than the rest of the world on average.  Relative Value  The yield on the German five-year security dropped as much
as 12 basis points to 0.59 percent, the lowest level since Aug.
1. The difference between the yields on the German five-year
note and the U.S. five-year Treasury yield was at 68 basis
points, compared with the 2013 average of 48 basis points.  The yield curve  measuring  the difference between Treasury
five-year and 10-year notes in the U.S. was at 1.29 percentage
points. It earlier widened to 1.33 percentage points, the most
since August 2011 on speculation the Fed’s target rate may be
lower for longer as central bank officials wrote in two separate
papers this week that the level of slack in the economy
justifies an accommodative stance.  The Fed has kept its target rate unchanged at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  The strategy of not raising rates if unemployment is above
6.5 percent has provided effective stimulus, and an even lower
threshold could be helpful, wrote  William English , head of the
Division of Monetary Affairs. A paper by David Wilcox, the
research and statistics chief, said slack in the economy argues
for loose policy at a time of contained inflation expectations.  Price Measure  The Fed’s price indicator for the period from 2018 to 2023,
known as the  five-year five-year forward  break-even rate was at
2.56 percent as of Nov. 4, below the 2013 average of 2.66
percent, suggesting inflation remains tamed.  The Fed papers were posted on the International Monetary
Fund’s website before a conference today in  Washington . Senior
staff members at the Fed write the briefing materials for
Federal Open Market Committee meetings and draft the central
bank’s policy options.  A report tomorrow is forecast to show employers added
120,000 jobs in October, economists predicted in a Bloomberg
News Survey before the Labor Department data. Employment
increased 148,000 in September.  “If tomorrow’s number is a little bit out of consensus, it
will be a game changer,” said Jason Rogan, managing director of
U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Securities, a New York-based brokerage for institutional investors.  Jobs Data  A report today showed fewer Americans filed applications
for  unemployment benefits  last week, indicating firings haven’t
picked up following the partial government shutdown.  The ECB has just one more quarter-point cut left before
reaching zero, increasing the likelihood of unconventional tools
such as quantitative easing or a negative deposit rate if prices
slow further or the economic recovery stalls. Euro-area
inflation is less than half the ECB’s target and unemployment is
at the highest level since the currency bloc was formed in 1999.  “It creates a situation where people think we’re running
into some sort of deflationary problem and maybe rates will be
lower for longer,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in
New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “Most people
were not expecting them to do it, so it’s a little bit of a
surprise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  