-- Reed Elsevier Nine-Month Sales Gain 3% on Risk Business Revenue
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-11-07T07:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/reed-elsevier-nine-month-sales-gain-3-on-risk-business-revenue.html
Reed Elsevier  Plc, the owner of the
LexisNexis database, said nine-month revenue increased on growth
in its risk business and after disposing of print assets that
didn’t fit its strategy.  Revenue rose 3 percent excluding currency swings,
acquisitions and disposals, the London-based company said in a
statement today. Reed Elsevier confirmed it’s on course for
full-year underlying revenue and profit growth and didn’t give
specific figures.  The company has seen its share price surge to all-time-highs in recent months as the strategy to shift away from print
and buy back shares paid off. Reed Elsevier, which now
concentrates on online subscriptions, research products and
offerings that compile and analyze electronic data, disposed of
its trade magazine business in Italy and a number of other small
assets during the nine months.  Underlying nine-month revenue at the company’s Risk
Solutions business, which includes products for the  insurance
industry  and governments to detect fraud, rose 8 percent and the
company predicted “good growth” for the rest of the year.  Underlying Sales at the scientific, technical and medical
unit, rose 2 percent, while revenue on that basis at the
exhibitions division grew 5 percent. The outlook for exhibitions
growth in  Europe  remains limited, and “good” for the U.S. and
 Japan .  Reed Elsevier said in July it would spend 600 million
pounds ($965 million) on share buybacks this year after earnings
rose on sales at its risk business.  Reed rose 0.1 percent to 877 pence in London yesterday,
taking the advance to 37 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  