-- RenCap Says Considering Fixed-Income Unit for Sub-Saharan Africa
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-11-07T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/rencap-says-considering-fixed-income-unit-for-sub-saharan-africa.html
Renaissance Capital , the Russian
investment bank controlled by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , is
considering creating a fixed-income unit for sub-Saharan Africa
as countries from Angola to Zambia tap bond markets.  “Fixed income is a real opportunity in sub-Saharan
Africa,” Clifford Sacks, RenCap chief executive officer for the
continent, said in a Nov. 6 interview in Johannesburg. “We’ll
be looking at it in 2014 and the team could be based in  London 
or Lagos.”  Sub-Saharan companies and nations, including Nigeria and
Ghana, have sold bonds this year that were oversubscribed as
investors seek to tap African growth rates surpassing those of
developed markets. RenCap began operations in the region in 2006
and offers brokerage, equity research and merger and advisory
services from Johannesburg, Nairobi and Lagos.  Credit Suisse Group AG said in May it had switched coverage
of the fixed-income market in sub-Saharan Africa from London to
Johannesburg as  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank seeks to
derive 25 percent of its revenue from  emerging markets  by 2014.
African bond issuance will be spurred by about $90 billion a
year of infrastructure development over the next 10 years, Mason Cranswick, director of fixed income in emerging markets for
Credit Suisse, said at the time.  RenCap also plans to start coverage of North Africa,
focusing on key markets such as  Egypt  and Morocco, said Sacks.  “We’ll have this ready in the first half of 2014,” he
said. “The analysts will be based in Johannesburg and London
until the opportunity warrants them being on the ground.”  ‘Adding Muscle’  RenCap, which has 79 employees in Africa and 13 more
covering the continent from London, hired analyst Johann Pretorius from Citigroup Inc. to start mining coverage and Ahmed Motara from Deutsche Bank AG to begin property research.  “We’ve plugged the holes from attrition and we’ve been
adding muscle -- we’ve beefed up our research significantly,”
Sacks said. “Our emerging market and  Africa  strategies haven’t
changed and we remain completely committed. We’re also taking on
trainees and running graduate programs to build a bench -- a
long-term, loyal workforce.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  