-- Republicans Haven’t Lost Women
-- B y   J o h n   S i d e s   a n d   L y n n   V a v r e c k
-- 2013-11-07T15:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/republicans-haven-t-lost-women.html
Ken Cuccinelli ’s defeat in the
governor’s race in  Virginia  seems like another sign that the
 Republican Party  has trouble appealing to women.  Cuccinelli, who was backed by the  Tea Party , did six points
worse among women than among men. The same was true for  Mitt Romney  in Virginia in the 2012 presidential race.  This gap has been ascribed to the Republican position on
abortion and contraception, in particular. “Ken Cuccinelli
drove women voters away by being the human embodiment of the
Republican War on Women,” said Marcy Stech, a spokeswoman for
Emily’s List, after this week’s election.  Yet a broader look at public opinion suggests a more
qualified story. The 2012 presidential race was also cited as an
example of how the Republican stances on reproductive issues
hurt them. After Romney answered a question about pay equity by
referring to “binders full of women” during the second
presidential debate, a spokeswoman for the campaign of President
 Barack Obama ,  Jen Psaki , said, “The more we’re talking about
women’s issues, women’s health care, the differences between the
candidates, the better it is for us.” Romney later attributed
Obama’s victory in part to the “gift” of “free
contraceptives” for young women.  We have  found  little evidence that either Psaki or Romney
was right. We measured attention to contraception and abortion
in 11,000 publications and media outlets in 2012, tracking the
controversies about these issues. We then combined this
information about news coverage with weekly polling from the
presidential race. Our analysis showed that women’s attitudes
toward Obama or Romney were no different when abortion and
contraception were in the news, compared with when they weren’t.
This was true for all women and specifically for those in their
childbearing years.  Undecided Voters  We also found that attitudes toward abortion contributed
relatively  little  to Obama’s share of the vote among women.
Conservative attitudes on abortion among Republican-leaning
women shored up their support for Romney. The abortion views of
Democratic-leaning women shored up their support for Obama in
roughly equal measure.  Among women who were initially undecided in the race,
however, abortion had little net benefit for either candidate.
Almost equal numbers of undecided women described themselves as
pro-life, pro-choice or “both.” Paradoxically, we  found  that
the abortion issue probably helped Obama more among men than
women, mainly by shoring up his support among Democratic-leaning
men.  Although we are accustomed to hearing that Americans feel
strongly about abortion, most people are ambivalent on the
subject. Most Americans don’t want to overturn Roe v. Wade,
suggesting that they support a right to abortion in general. Yet
their support for exercising that right depends greatly on the
reason for the abortion.  According to the 2012  General Social Survey , large
majorities of Americans support abortion rights in cases of rape
or incest, or when the pregnancy seriously endangers the woman’s
health. But fewer than half of Americans support abortion when
the circumstances are more discretionary, such as when the woman
doesn’t want any more children. Most Americans support first-trimester abortions; only a minority supports abortion in later
trimesters.  The challenge for some Republican candidates was that they
took stands outside of consensus opinion, not that they were
generally pro-life. That was true in the 2012 Senate races of
Todd Akin of  Missouri  and  Richard Mourdock  of  Indiana . Their
suggestions that abortion in rape cases wasn’t justified were
costly because so few Americans agreed with them. Cuccinelli’s
call for requiring women to undergo ultrasounds before obtaining
abortions wasn’t as controversial, yet it put him against
majority opinion. In a February 2013 poll, 55 percent of
Virginians opposed mandatory ultrasounds, while 36 percent
supported them.  Men Agree  The 2012 national survey  reflected  another significant
fact. Men and women generally have similar attitudes about
abortion even though the issue affects women’s choices more
directly. The poll showed that 45 percent of women and 44
percent of men supported abortion “if the woman wants it for
any reason.”  No clear evidence exists that the issue is a priority for
women in particular. It is true that in the exit poll 25 percent
of female voters in Virginia, compared with only 14 percent of
men, chose the abortion issue as most important from a list that
also included the economy, transportation and health care
(though more women selected the economy and health care than
abortion). Most of the women who chose the abortion issue voted
for  Terry McAuliffe , the victorious Democrat, rather than
Cuccinelli.  Yet this correlation can’t tell us if abortion caused them
to vote this way. And this exit-poll question likely inflated
the priority that voters attached to abortion. In a July CBS
News Poll, only 2 percent of Americans chose abortion as the
most important issue from a list that included the economy,
 budget deficit , health care, education, illegal immigration and
the environment.  During the 2012 presidential campaign, we also found that
men were better informed than women on contraception-related
controversies. For example, men were more likely than women to
correctly identify Republican  Rick Santorum ’s position on birth
control from a list that included two made-up statements as well
as his actual statement that  birth control  is “a license to do
things in the sexual realm that is counter to how things are
supposed to be.”  None of this is meant to suggest that people don’t care
deeply about contraception and abortion. But activists on both
sides aren’t likely to be persuadable voters in the first place.  With most voters somewhere in the middle, there is no
likely electoral gain or loss for either party from garden-variety pro-life or pro-choice positions. The more pressing
imperative for candidates is to avoid extreme positions that
could alienate moderate voters.  Cuccinelli, like Akin and Mourdock, may have failed in this
regard. Future Republican candidates can learn from their
examples.  (John Sides is an associate professor of political science
at George Washington University. Lynn Vavreck is an associate
professor of political science and communication studies at the
 University of California  at  Los Angeles . They are the authors of
“ The Gamble : Choice and Chance in the 2012 Election.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
John Sides at  jsides@gwu.edu ;
Lynn Vavreck at  lvavreck@ucla.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 