-- Roche’s Gazyva Extends Leukemia Patients’ Survival
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-11-07T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/roche-s-gazyva-extends-leukemia-patients-survival.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s newly approved
medicine Gazyva helped patients with chronic lymphocytic
leukemia live almost a year longer without their disease
progressing than its top-seller, Rituxan, in a clinical trial.  Patients taking Gazyva along with the chemotherapy
chlorambucil lived for a median 26.7 months without their cancer
spreading, compared with 15.2 months for those on Rituxan plus
chlorambucil, Basel, Switzerland-based Roche said today. The
data, from the last of three stages of testing necessary for
U.S. approval, will be presented next month at the  American
Society of Hematology  meeting in New Orleans.  Gazyva was approved Nov. 1 as the first medicine with the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s new breakthrough therapy
designation. CLL is a disease of the blood and bone marrow that
typically worsens slowly. About 15,680 Americans will be
diagnosed with the disease and about 4,580 will die from it this
year, according to the National Cancer Institute.  “Given how much benefit Rituxan has provided to patients,
it was a high bar to imagine that you could actually improve
upon that,” Nancy Valente, head of Roche’s hematology
development, said by phone.  Rituxan  generated  6.71 billion Swiss francs ($7.16 billion)
in 2012 for Roche, the world’s largest maker of cancer
medicines, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The drug
also is approved for other diseases including non-Hodgkin’s
lymphoma and rheumatoid arthritis. Analysts expect Gazyva to
 bring in  1.34 billion Swiss francs, on average, in 2018.  The 663-patient study turned up more side effects among
those taking Gazyva than for those on Rituxan. Twenty percent of
patients on Gazyva had an infusion-related reaction, compared
with 4 percent on Rituxan. A third of patients in the Gazyva arm
experienced neutropenia, or a low white blood-cell count, versus
27 percent for Rituxan. Infections occurred in 7 percent of
patients in both arms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  