-- Russia Will Probably Hold Rates After Surprise Inflation Jump
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-11-07T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/russia-will-probably-hold-rates-after-surprise-inflation-jump.html
Russia ’s central bank will probably
refrain from cutting interest rates for a 14th month after a
surprise pickup in consumer-price growth last month hurt its
struggle to slow inflation to within its target band.  Bank Rossii will leave the one-week auction rate, its
benchmark introduced in September, unchanged at 5.5 percent at a
meeting in Moscow today, according to all 24 economists in a
Bloomberg  survey . The  inflation rate  unexpectedly rose to 6.3
percent last month, exceeding this year’s target range of 5
percent to 6 percent for a 14th month.  Policy makers led by  Elvira Nabiullina , who took over as
central bank chairman in June, have kept interest rates steady
since September 2012 even as the economy of the world’s largest
energy exporter has its worst slowdown in four years. Rising
food prices after rain delayed the grain harvest and Russia
banned pork imports from Belarus increased the risk of Bank
Rossii missing its year-end inflation goal for a second year.  “We remain doubtful that Russian inflation could slow to
less than 6 percent by the end of the year, and this is a
convincing argument against central bank rate cuts in the coming
months,” Natalia Orlova and Dmitry Dolgin, Moscow-based
analysts with Alfa Bank, wrote in an e-mailed note yesterday.  The three-month MosPrime rate, which large Moscow banks say
they charge one another, may drop 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, in the next three months, according to
forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg. The spread is up
from a four-month low of 7 basis points on Nov. 5.  Monetary Easing  The ruble has gained 1.8 percent against the dollar in the
past three months, the fifth-best performer among 24 emerging-market currencies Bloomberg tracks. It traded little changed at
32.3207 per dollar at 4:42 p.m. in Moscow yesterday.  Monetary easing is continuing in the euro area to aid a
recovery after the longest-ever recession. The European Central
Bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low yesterday
after a drop in inflation to the slowest pace in four years.  Countries across eastern Europe, including  Hungary  and the
Czech Republic, have pledged to keep rates low to support their
economies. Hungary reduced borrowing costs for a 15th month in
October, while Poland held its main rate at a record-low 2.5
percent this week and pledged to keep it unchanged until at
least July 2014.  The Czech central bank yesterday approved the first koruna
sales in more than a decade to ease monetary policy after
inflation slowed to the lowest in 3 1/2 years. It will seek to
keep the currency near 27 per euro.  Inflation Targeting  While the Russian central bank’s rate policy will be tied
to its inflation target, “it will not be based on current
trends, but on how we see the longer-term development of the
situation,” Igor Dmitriev, head of Bank Rossii’s monetary
policy department, said at a conference in Moscow yesterday.  Policy makers are still discussing the appropriate level
for the long-term inflation target, after seeking to reduce
consumer-price growth to 4 percent in 2014-2016, he said.  “An important element of inflation targeting is
concentrating to the utmost on medium-term forecasts” for
economic growth, the state of the financial market and the
interbank market, he said.  Russia’s  gross domestic product  will probably grow at an
average pace of 2.5 percent until 2030, Economy Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev  told reporters in Moscow yesterday, keeping this
year’s forecast at 1.8 percent. The economy grew 1.2 percent
from a year earlier in the second quarter, the worst result
since the last three months of 2009.  “Even the continuing weakness of activity indicators,
including the possibility that real GDP failed to grow in
seasonally adjusted terms in the third quarter, is now very
unlikely to lead to policy easing over the next several
months,” Sergei Voloboev and Alexey Pogorelov, analysts at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said yesterday in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  