-- Russia Forecasts Losing Ground in Global Economy by 2030
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-11-07T14:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/russia-forecasts-losing-ground-in-global-economy-by-2030.html
Russia ’s share of the world economy
will probably shrink during the next 20 years as growth trails
the global average, Economy Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev  said.  Gross domestic product will rise at an average pace of 2.5
percent through 2030, less than the 3.4 percent to 3.5 percent
global rate, according to the ministry’s updated forecasts. That
would reduce Russia’s share of world economic output to 3.4
percent by 2030 from 4 percent last year, the ministry said.  The muted outlook highlights the turnaround in fortune for
the world’s biggest energy exporter, whose $2 trillion economy
grew at an  average annual rate  of 7 percent during  Vladimir Putin ’s presidency from 2000 to 2008 before contracting 7.8
percent in 2009 after crude  oil prices  plunged. GDP growth
decelerated every quarter since Putin won a third Kremlin term
in March 2012, with senior officials including Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev  warning Russia’s export-driven economic model
neared exhaustion.  “The upshot is that without a major shift in policy we
suspect that Russia will go from being one of the world’s
fastest-growing economies to one of its biggest
underperformers,”  Neil Shearing , chief economist for  emerging
markets  at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail.
“Today’s forecast revisions suggest a grudging acceptance of
this new reality among policy makers in Moscow.”  Ninth Biggest  Russia, the world’s ninth-largest economy in dollar terms
last year according to the  World Bank , rode near-record oil
prices to average an expansion of about 4 percent in 2010-2012
before growth stumbled this year.  Putin, whose time in power will match Soviet leader  Leonid Brezhnev ’s 18-year rule at the end of his current term in 2018,
faces similar risks of stagnation that marked the decline of the
 Soviet Union .  Soviet nominal GDP reached $993 billion in 1983, the year
after Brezhnev’s death, according to data compiled by the  United
Nations . That’s about 8.7 percent of  global output  at the time,
according to World Bank data compiled by Bloomberg. The Soviet
share fell to 3.5 percent in 1990, the data show.  The Russian republic declared sovereignty from the Soviet
Union in June 1990, the first of the Soviet states after the
Baltics to do so. Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova followed,
bringing about the dissolution of a federation of almost 300
million inhabitants in 1991.  ‘More Realistic’  “The revisions made to the baseline scenario of Russia’s
long-term economic growth make it more realistic,”  Alexander Morozov , Moscow-based chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc for
Russia, the  Commonwealth of Independent States  and Baltic
countries, said by e-mail. “This scenario highlights the need
for large-scale and broad improvements in business conditions
and the investment climate in Russia, without which Russia will
be losing its importance in the global economy and trade over
time.”  With the economic growth forecast at no more than 2.5
percent in the next three to four years, bank lending and assets
will grow 10 percent to 15 percent, central bank First Deputy
Chairman Alexei Simanovsky told reporters in Moscow today.  Loans to households grew 39 percent on an annual basis in
2012, while the financial industry’s assets advanced 19 percent,
central bank  data  show.  Economy Slumps  Putin’s government is struggling to stem the worst economic
slowdown since a 2009 recession. The central bank, where
Ulyukayev served previously as first deputy chairman, has been
reluctant to reduce  interest rates  because consumer-price growth
has held above its target this year.  “We expect Russian growth over the forecast period to lag
behind the global average,” Ulyukayev said.  Russian stocks are underperforming global peers. The
dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  of 50 stocks has fallen 3.9 percent
this year, compared with a 20 percent advance for the MSCI World
Index of developed countries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The ministry has drawn up three scenarios for economic
growth during the next two decades and will use the conservative
one as its base case. It envisions measures to modernize
Russia’s energy and natural resources industries, and predicts
average growth of 3.1 percent through 2020, dropping to 2.5
percent until 2025 and 1.8 percent to 2030.  Less Optimistic  The main outlook was previously based on a moderately
optimistic scenario, with growth averaging 4.3 percent a year,
according to the Vedomosti newspaper, which reported the
forecast earlier today. The gloomier forecast was motivated
primarily on domestic factors, with global economic projections
largely unchanged, it reported.  GDP (RUDPRYOY)  is estimated to rise 1.9 percent this year before
accelerating to an average pace of 2.8 percent in 2014,
according to the median estimate of 38 economists in a Bloomberg
survey conducted last month.  The economy probably expanded 1.2 percent from a year
earlier in the third quarter, the same pace as in the previous
three months, Deputy Economy Minister Andrey Klepach told
reporters in Moscow on Oct. 25. Growth has decelerated every
quarter since the final three months of 2011, when output
expanded 5.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  