-- Russian Farmers to Keep Planting Winter Grains Amid Warm Spell
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-11-07T12:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/russian-farmers-to-keep-planting-winter-grains-amid-warm-spell.html
Russian farmers will keep planting
winter grains this month amid abnormally warm weather, helping
bridge a gap with this year’s target after sowing was delayed by
rains, according to the country’s Grain Union and Moscow-based
consultancy OOO ProZerno.  Farmers planted 14.3 million hectares (35.3 million acres)
with winter grains as of yesterday, 8.3 percent less than last
year and 13 percent short of the target, Agriculture Ministry
data  show . Areas under winter grains may reach 15 million
hectares, the Grain Union estimates, while ProZerno says
plantings will be 14.5 million hectares.  “Farmers can still plant a bit more, especially in the
south,” Alexander Korbut, the Grain Union’s vice president,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “They still have time
and they have the weather.”  Winter-grain planting was delayed by at least two weeks
this year because of rains, the Grain Union estimates. The delay
and smaller areas under wheat may cost Russia 4 million metric
tons of potential harvest, the Moscow-based Institute for
Agricultural Market Studies said last month.  A mild, warm October helped to improve the outlook for
winter grains, and losses because of the smaller planted areas
may be 1 million to 2 million tons under the “worst-case
scenario,” Vladimir Petrichenko, ProZerno’s director general,
said in a telephone interview. A favorable winter may mean a
higher survival rate and a crop similar to 2011, when  Russia 
harvested 94 million tons of grain, including 56 million tons of
wheat, he said.  Weather in central Russia will stay “abnormally” warm
next week, Russia’s national forecaster said yesterday.
Temperatures rose to as high as 18 degrees Celsius (64.4 degrees
Fahrenheit) yesterday, beating records at “almost all”
observation stations in central Russia, it  said  on its website
today.  Krasnodar Temperatures  Temperatures in the southern region of Krasnodar, the main
grain-growing area, will rise to as high as 22 degrees Celsius
today, before sliding to 14 degrees to 16 degrees through Nov.
13, data from the weather center show. The daytime average for
November will be 11.3 degrees, the data show. Temperatures in
Rostov, the second-biggest grain grower, will reach 16 degrees
today, the data show.  Krasnodar exceeded its target for winter grains by 3.2
percent and Rostov planted 97 percent of the target, Agriculture
Ministry data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  