-- Salix to Buy Santarus for $2.6 Billion for Diabetes Drug
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-11-08T21:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/salix-to-buy-santarus-for-2-6-billion-for-diabetes-drug.html
Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (SLXP) , a maker
of drugs for gastrointestinal diseases, said it will acquire
 Santarus Inc. (SNTS)  for about $2.6 billion to gain treatments for
diabetes and heartburn.  Salix, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , will pay $32 a
share in cash for San Diego-based Santarus, a 39 percent premium
to Santarus’s average closing price in the last 30 trading days,
the companies said in a statement yesterday.  The combined company will have revenue of $1.3 billion and
benefit from merging two sales forces and increasing its slate
of experimental drugs, Salix Chief Executive Officer Carolyn Logan said. Salix’s top-selling drug is Xifaxan, for travelers’
diarrhea, which drew $514.5 million in 2012  sales . Santarus
sells Glumetza for  Type 2 diabetes , which analysts estimate will
generate $221.6 million in 2015 revenue, and Zegerid for
heartburn, forecast for $106.3 million in sales.  The deal “is transformative for Salix both commercially
and financially, fulfilling many of our strategic needs while
providing immediate and significant accretion in 2014 and
beyond,” Logan said in the statement.  The companies said they expect the acquisition to close in
the first quarter of 2014.  There have been 44 acquisitions of specialty drug companies
for more than $500 million in the last three years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The average disclosed size was $1.2
billion and average premium was 20 percent, the data show. The
largest deal was  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) ’s purchase of Elan Corp. for $6.2
billion earlier this year.  Shares Rise  Salix gained 18 percent to $84 at 4 p.m. New York time in
their biggest increase since February 2010. The shares have
doubled this year. Santarus jumped 38 percent to $31.95, and has
almost tripled this year.  Salix will pay for the deal with about $800 million cash on
hand and $1.95 billion in committed financing from Jefferies
Finance LLC, which also agreed to provide an additional $150
million revolving credit facility, the companies said.  Salix will continue to look for “tuck-away” acquisitions,
Chief Financial Officer Adam Derbyshire told analysts on a
conference call. He said late-stage opportunities that require
minimal upfront spending are optimal.  “Clearly we’re not looking to do anything along these
lines,” Derbyshire said, referring to the Santarus acquisition.
“Our philosophy about business development is we never stop
looking; we can’t afford to stop looking.”  Jefferies LLC was Salix’s financial adviser, while
Covington & Burling LLP provided legal counsel. Stifel Nicolaus
& Co. was financial adviser for Santarus, while Latham & Watkins
LLP was legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  