-- HSBC Joins RBS, Lloyds in U.K. Interest-Rate Swap Payback
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-11-07T11:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/hsbc-joins-rbs-lloyds-in-u-k-interest-rate-swap-payback-1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  will pay partial
settlements to small businesses over losses on improperly-sold
 interest-rate swaps  to speed up the compensation process.  The three banks will pay back the purchase price of the
products to customers first and later consider added losses they
may have suffered, the Financial Conduct Authority said in a
statement today.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  hasn’t signed up to the agreement
to split compensation payments.  The regulator ordered the four largest U.K. banks earlier
this year to compensate clients after it found “serious
failings” in reviews of product sales. The banks have paid back
15.3 million pounds ($24.6 million) as of the end of last month,
the FCA said.  “Progress to this point has been slower than expected, but
the latest figures show a significant pick-up from earlier
publications,” the regulator said in the statement. The deal
with HSBC, RBS and Lloyds will “simplify and speed up the
process.”  British banks may end up paying billions of pounds for
improper sales of swaps, according to analysts. It’s one of at
least three scandals over improperly sold products facing U.K.
lenders, who have also had to pay out billions over payment-protection and identity-theft insurance products.  ‘Made Mistakes’  “It is in Barclays’s interests as well as our customers to
complete the review as soon as possible,” Barclays said in an
e-mailed statement. “Where we have made mistakes, we will put
them right.”  Lloyds is planning to double the number of redress claims
it has resolved in November, the bank said in an e-mailed
statement, while RBS said it is “prioritizing those businesses
that are most in distress first.”  “Our recent decision to introduce ‘split payments’ is
speeding up the process,” HSBC said in an e-mailed statement.
It “means customers get redress that is due to them at the
earliest opportunity, potentially months earlier than under the
process for a single payment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  