-- Scandinavia’s Banks Hold Crisis Lessons World Can’t Ignore
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-11-08T09:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/scandinavia-holds-bank-crisis-lesson-world-should-heed-cfa-says.html
Banks everywhere should study
Scandinavia’s response to its 1990s crisis to see how a near
collapse was used to create one of the world’s best-functioning
financial industries, according to  John Rogers , chief executive
officer at the Chartered Financial Analyst Institute.  “The world potentially has got some things to learn from
the experience from the Nordic financial crisis of the early
1990s,” Rogers said in an interview. “We’re not paying enough
attention to those lessons.”  As banks across the globe navigate their way through rules
they say make it harder to recover from the worst crisis since
the Great Depression, Rogers is urging the industry to look to a
region that has imposed some of the world’s strictest bank
standards.  Sweden  two decades ago responded to a real estate
bust and ensuing bank turmoil with swift nationalization and
instant separation of good assets from bad. Rogers says the
approach should serve as a model for the future of banking.  Nordic banks  “have had the opportunity to prepare and
think differently about finance and about their role,” Rogers
said in the Nov. 6 interview, as the CFA Society in Sweden
marked its 10th anniversary at the National Museum in Stockholm.
“We get a little bit of a preview of the future of finance
here.”  Debt Crisis  Stockholm-based  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Scandinavia’s biggest
lender,  Norway ’s DNB ASA and Sweden’s  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) 
all avoided the worst of the fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis
and the U.S. subprime collapse. Nordic banks didn’t go near the
toxic securities that led to the 2008 failure of Lehman Brothers
Holding Inc. Sweden’s banks have also steered clear of the
interbank rate rigging that’s tainted their peers elsewhere.
That’s no coincidence, according to Rogers.  The Nordic region “went through a pretty significant
crisis back in the early 1990s -- it was a terrible, almost
existential crisis,” he said.  After exploring numerous options for how to rebuild a
financial industry, including “was it going to be fully
nationalized, was it going to be turned into some kind of
utility like a water or electricity company, was it going to be
just a hick-up and then return to normal,” the region settled
on a model that helped it withstand the biggest disruption to
financial markets in 70 years, Rogers said.  Shares Rise  Nordea shares have gained 30 percent this year, while DNB
and Danske Bank have advanced 49 percent and 32 percent,
respectively. Swedbank has risen 32 percent while SEB has gained
41 percent. The Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index has
advanced 17 percent.  “It would be helpful to talk about some of those examples
and some of those new approaches to financial services that have
come out of that experience,” he said.  Today, Nordic banks’ “compensation structure, approach to
client services and focus on basic banking services -- consumer
and industrial lending -- as well as knowing your markets very
well and using your capital market function as a value-enhancer
to your basic banking business” are approaches that other
nations and their financial industries should study, Rogers
said.  The Swedish banking market crashed in the early 1990s after
a spate of deregulation caused a sudden credit expansion which
subsequently triggered a collapse in real estate prices. The
government stepped in with bailouts and took over failing banks.
Two bankrupt lenders, Nordbanken and Gota, were merged by the
state and had their bad loans dumped in so-called bad banks. The
merged company later combined with banks in  Finland ,  Denmark  and
Norway to form today’s Nordea.  Baltic Experience  Not everything Nordic banks have done since 1990 has been
immune to crisis.  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and SEB AB suffered soaring loan
losses in the Baltic countries in 2009 after the region sank
into the European Union’s deepest recession on record. Denmark’s
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  was dragged through housing bubbles at home and
in and Ireland. Both DNB and Nordea have seen credit losses at
their shipping units amid the worst slump in that industry since
the 1970s. Record household debt burdens in Sweden and Norway
now pose a risk to financial stability, central bank policy
makers warn.  Swedish regulators, drawing on lessons from the 1990s, have
been quick to respond and have pushed through tighter capital
standards than those set elsewhere. Its four biggest banks must
hold a core Tier 1 ratio of at least 12 percent of risk-weighted
assets by 2015, a ratio they all already exceed.  Topping Rankings  Finland’s Pohjola Bank Oyj, Nordea, Handelsbanken and DNB
rank highest in Europe according to risk-adjusted returns over
the past decade, with  SEB AB (SEBA)  and Swedbank AB also in the Top 10
of the 38 banks in the Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services
Index. Pohjola had a risk-adjusted return of 10.6 percent in the
past 10 years, while Nordea and Handelsbanken had returns of 7.9
percent and 7.3 percent, respectively, in the same period.  The  CFA Institute , which seeks to promote ethical and
professional standards within the investment community and
restore faith in the financial industry, has representations in
Sweden and Denmark and wants to expand in the rest of the Nordic
region, Rogers said. The institute also plans to open offices in
 China  and  India , he said.  “This lack of investor trust, which may not be felt so
acutely in the Nordic region, is felt very acutely in other
major markets such as the U.K., the U.S. and China,” Rogers
said. “Where there is this lack of trust, not only do we have
an industry that doesn’t attract the same level of talent as it
has in the past, more importantly, we end up with investors
behaving fearfully and defensively and don’t invest properly for
their retirement needs, so it becomes a social problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  