-- Scene in D.C.: McAuliffe, Rubenstein, O’Malley, Estelle
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-11-07T11:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/scene-in-d-c-mcauliffe-rubenstein-o-malley-estelle.html
Terry McAuliffe credited  Planned
Parenthood  for delivering his victory in Tuesday’s  Virginia 
governor’s race in which the women’s vote was a key factor.  “I would not have been standing on that stage last night
without you,” he said.  McAuliffe, his wife, Dorothy, and Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley were among the guests at the Ritz Carlton for the
Planned Parenthood of Metropolitan Washington’s annual gala.  McAuliffe vowed to block efforts to close Virginia’s
remaining 18 women’s health centers in his first 60 days.  “It was women who turned out against intrusive
ideologies,” O’Malley said about the Virginia campaign.  Lizz Winstead , the co-creator and former head writer of The
Daily Show and co-founder of Air America Radio, provided the
comic relief.  David Rubenstein thanked his sixth-grade teacher Monday
night for making him memorize John F. Kennedy’s 1960 inaugural
speech. The co-founder of the  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  was on stage at
the Kennedy Center to honor “D.C.’s best and brightest
educators” with cash prizes he funded including eight gifts of
$10,000, and 30 of $5,000.  Jill Biden , Colin Powell, BET Holdings LLC Chairman Debra Lee, and Josh Morgan, wide receiver for the Washington Redskins,
were among the presenters at the annual Standing Ovation for
D.C. Teachers, organized by the  D.C. Public Education Fund .  “You can’t be a designer without math,” said “Project
Runway” star Tim Gunn, presenting an award to math teacher
William A. Taylor from Wheatley Education Campus.  Singer  Estelle  performed classroom-ready. “They told me to
watch my language,” she said.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Jason Harper 
on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology,  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene
Last Night and  Katya Kazakina  on art auctions.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 