-- Scene Last Night: Springsteen, Corbat, Novogratz, Brand
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-11-07T17:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/scene-last-night-springsteen-corbat-novogratz-brand.html
Bruce Springsteen  sang “Dancing in
the Dark” last night by himself with acoustic guitar, filling
the Theater at Madison Square Garden with a soulful quiet.  Then he told a joke about a guy going into a whorehouse in
Nevada where he experiences something called a Hurricane Tessie.  “I didn’t say they were good dirty jokes,” Springsteen
said at the seventh annual  Stand Up for Heroes , a fundraiser for
veterans organized by the Bob Woodruff Foundation and the New
York Comedy Festival.  Among the comedians were  Bill Cosby ,  Jon Stewart ,  Jerry Seinfeld  and Jim Gaffigan. A band of wounded warriors
accompanied Roger Waters on his Pink Floyd song “Comfortably
Numb.”  All of it was catnip for Wall Street. Sponsors included
Axonic Capital LLC, the Paul E. Singer Foundation and Veterans
on Wall Street, founded by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Citigroup Inc., and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  From Citigroup were  Michael Corbat , chief executive, Suni Harford, regional head of markets for North America, and Jamie Forese, co-president of institutional clients.  Deutsche Bank’s Jacques Brand, CEO of North America, and
John Eydenberg, global head of financial sponsors, were present.
From Fortress Investment Group LLC: Mike Novogratz.  Goldman Sachs brought Todd Haskins, a former Marine and
managing director in the financial sponsors group, and Owen West, who served with the Marines in Iraq and is head of U.S.
natural gas and power trading.  Woodruff Foundation  Journalists Bob Woodruff, injured in Iraq while reporting,
and his wife, Lee Woodruff, honored caregivers and veterans in
the front rows. General Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, took the stage.  Michelle Obama  and  Jill Biden 
appeared in a video, thanking the Bob Woodruff Foundation for
investing in programs to help veterans go to school and find
jobs.  Springsteen closed the show, dedicating one song to the
families of fallen heroes, and singing a cover of Suicide’s
“Dream Baby Dream.” Then Brian Williams joined him to auction
off a Springsteen fan’s dream package: a Fender guitar he’d just
played on, a one-hour private guitar lesson, lasagna, and an
invite to attend a recording session at his home. It went for
$250,000.  The event raised more than $5 million, Ashley Bunce, a
spokesman for the Bob Woodruff Foundation, wrote in an e-mail.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Jason Harper 
on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology, and  Katya Kazakina  on
art auctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  