-- Scottish Voters Backing Independence Remain at 25% in TNS Survey
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2013-11-07T11:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/scottish-voters-backing-independence-remain-at-25-in-tns-survey.html
Support for turning  Scotland  into
 Europe ’s newest sovereign state remained unchanged for a second
month, the latest poll showed.  The  TNS BMRB survey  found 25 percent of 1,010 respondents
in Scotland said they intended to vote “yes” in next year’s
referendum on independence from the U.K., while those in favor
of keeping the status quo amounted to 43 percent, down one
percentage point from September. Undecided voters totaled 32
percent, up by a percentage point on the month.  The semi-autonomous Scottish government in Edinburgh is
scheduled to publish a policy paper on Nov. 26 outlining its
vision for an independent country 306 years after forming the
U.K. by uniting with  England . Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  and his  Scottish National Party  say Scotland would be
better off with full control over its economy and North Sea oil.
The three main parties in the U.K. Parliament in  London  oppose
Scottish independence.  A report by the Centre for Economics and Business Research
published today said that the Scottish economy will expand at a
faster rate this year and next, in line with the rest of the
U.K. The pace of growth next year in Scotland will be the
quickest since 2007, it said.  Thirty-seven percent of those polled by TNS BMRB said they
wanted to know more about post-independence pensions and
benefits, while the second most-important issue was taxation, at
31 percent.  Turnout probably will be higher than in the most recent
elections for the Scottish or U.K. parliaments. Two-thirds of
adults, 66 percent, said they are certain to vote, with 14
percent saying they are very likely to vote, TNS BMRB said. The
poll was conducted on Oct. 23-30. No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  