-- Senator Says U.S. May Be Paying Billions Extra for Parts
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-11-07T19:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/senator-says-u-s-may-be-paying-billions-extra-for-parts.html
A Senate committee chairman has
demanded that the Pentagon explain four audits -- two involving
 Boeing Co. (BA)  -- that he said shows the Department of Defense may
be paying billions of dollars extra for spare parts.  “In some cases, the DoD paid for parts it did not use,”
Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat who heads the Senate
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, said in a
letter to a top Pentagon official. “In other cases, the price
paid was much higher than was appropriate or necessary.”  The audits by the Pentagon’s inspector general “detailed
millions of dollars in wasteful spending and contractor
oversight failures” and their findings “are, unfortunately,
only illustrative examples,” Carper wrote Deputy Defense
Secretary Ashton Carter in the letter dated yesterday. It was
also signed by his Republican counterpart on the panel, Senator
Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma .  Based on previous inspector general reports and work
completed by Carper’s panel “we believe there could be
millions, if not billions of dollars, more at stake if broader
reviews of spare parts were conducted,” the senators said.
“This is a troubling reminder that the DoD still has a lot of
work ahead.”  Although the amounts of individual parts overcharges are
small in the context of a $527 billion defense budget, not
including war funding, disclosures of wasteful spending have
provoked criticism in the past.  Toilet Seat  Defense contractor overcharges in the 1980s undercut public
confidence in Pentagon management. Senate committees disclosed
overpriced spare parts -- including a $37 machine screw, a $435
claw hammer and a $640 toilet eat -- just as the Reagan
administration was starting a major increase in  defense
spending .  The inspector general said in a June audit that the Defense
Logistics Agency paid Chicago-based Boeing $13.7 million more
than it should have for parts, including $2,286 apiece for an
aluminum “bearing sleeve” that should have cost $10.  That example was cited today by Senator Saxby Chambliss, a
Georgia Republican, in a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing
examining the impact of automatic budget cuts. He said the
Pentagon must eliminate such waste as it faces another round of
automatic budget cuts known as sequestration.  Carper and Coburn asked Carter to provide by Nov. 30 “an
assessment of the scale of the problems” with parts purchases
and effectiveness of policies put in place in 2011 to prevent
overpricing.  Talks With Boeing  The lawmakers also asked Carter to outline the Pentagon’s
efforts to “recover the overpayments to contractors.”  Defense Logistics Agency spokeswoman Mimi Schirmacher said
in an e-mail that the agency and Boeing are negotiating to
determine how much the company will return for overcharges
disclosed in the June audit.  Boeing “has been working with the Defense Logistics
Agency” and the inspector general “throughout the audit
process,” Ellen Buhr, a spokeswoman for Boeing’s Global
Services and Support unit, said in an e-mailed statement in
June. “We are working with DLA to review the official report
and to understand the issues identified.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  