-- Senate Passes Workplace Discrimination Bill
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-11-07T20:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/senate-passes-workplace-discrimination-bill.html
The  U.S. Senate  passed legislation
that would prohibit most employers from firing, demoting or
refusing to hire workers because of their sexual orientation or
gender identity.  The bill, known as the Employment Non-Discrimination Act,
or ENDA, would extend workplace protections to lesbian, gay,
bisexual and transgender individuals. The vote, which required
only a simple majority for passage, was 64-32. Ten Republicans
joined the chamber’s Democrats in supporting the bill.  “This issue of freedom from discrimination is a core issue
of freedom,” the bill’s sponsor, Oregon Democrat  Jeff Merkley ,
said on the Senate floor. The legislation “will make a
difference in millions of lives, and it will make a difference
in the strength and character of our nation,” he said.  The bill’s future is less certain in the Republican-controlled House, where Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  has
expressed opposition to the measure. A similar House bill
introduced in April has only five Republican co-sponsors,
compared with 188 Democratic co-sponsors.  “One party in one house of Congress should not stand in
the way of millions of Americans who want to go to work each day
and simply be judged by the job they do,” President  Barack Obama  said today in a statement after the vote. “I urge the
House Republican leadership to bring this bill to the floor for
a vote and send it to my desk so I can sign it into law.”  Religious Exemptions  While the Senate bill carves out exemptions for religious
organizations, entities that aren’t primarily religious in
purpose would have to comply.  Some Republicans said the religious exemptions weren’t
broad enough, prompting Senate leaders to agree to a vote
earlier today on an amendment that would have expanded the
definition of religious groups to provide for more exemptions
from the bill’s provisions, including for religiously chartered
hospitals. That amendment, which under the agreement needed 60
votes for adoption, failed by a vote of 43-55.  “The so-called protections for religious liberty in this
bill are vaguely defined and do not extend to all organizations
that wish to adhere to their moral or religious beliefs in their
hiring practices,” Indiana Republican  Dan Coats  said today on
the Senate floor.  ‘Appropriate Balance’  “We must strive to reach the appropriate balance between
protecting workers and protecting religious freedom,” said the
amendment’s author, Senator  Pat Toomey , a Pennsylvania
Republican.  Toomey’s amendment was opposed by some of the bill’s
backers, including the Human Rights Campaign, a Washington-based
gay-rights advocacy group.  Another amendment, which would prohibit the government from
taking action against religious organizations exempt from the
bill by denying them federal benefits such as grants or a tax-exempt status, was adopted yesterday by voice vote. It was
sponsored by Ohio Republican Senator Rob Portman.  “ENDA will help create a level playing field and ensure
that employment opportunities are available to all, but that
doesn’t mean it’s a perfect bill,” Portman said in a  statement .
“We must make certain that in pursuit of enforcing non-discrimination, those religious employers are not subject to a
different form of discrimination -- government retaliation.”  Muted Criticism  During the debate this week, most of the bill’s opponents
refrained from public criticism of the bill, instead devoting
their floor speeches to attacking the flawed rollout of the 2010
health-care law.  After the  Supreme Court  in a June 26 ruling struck down the
Defense of Marriage Act, which prohibited the federal government
from recognizing  same-sex marriages , gay-rights advocates made
ENDA their top priority on  Capitol Hill . Most congressional
Democrats and almost 70 Fortune 500 companies, including
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , support the measure.  Among the groups opposing the legislation is the
Washington-based Traditional Values Coalition.  “Picture your child in a classroom full of students when a
formerly male teacher walks in as a transgendered female at the
beginning of the school year,” Andrea Lafferty, president of
the coalition, said in a  statement . “Our children’s education
and well-being should be more important than catering to the
unhealthy psychological condition of a very small group of
individuals.”  Gender-Identity Provision  Lawmakers have considered extending civil rights
protections to gay and lesbian workers since 1994. In 1996, a
version of the bill that didn’t include a gender-identity
provision fell one vote short of Senate passage.  In 2007, the House passed a version with only the sexual-orientation component after some members balked at extending
protections to transgender workers -- those who express a gender
identity different from the one on their birth certificates. It
died in the Senate.  This year’s Senate bill is S. 815.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  