-- Serb Central Bank Lowers Rates as 2014 Economic Outlook Dims
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-11-07T15:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/serbia-s-central-bank-lowers-rates-as-2014-economic-outlook-dims.html
Serbia ’s central bank cut borrowing
costs for the second straight month, taking advantage of slowing
inflation days after the government’s 2014 draft budget signaled
a weaker economic outlook.  The Narodna Banka Srbije in Belgrade, the capital, cut the
 one-week repurchase rate  by a half point to 10 percent,
according to a  statement  on its website today. Nine of 24
economists in a Bloomberg  survey  predicted a quarter-point cut,
four saw a half-point reduction and 11 predicted no change.  Serbia is joining a regional round of monetary easing as
central banks from  Romania  to  Hungary  reduce the cost of credit
to revive their economies and their Czech counterparts start the
first koruna sales in more than a decade to relax policy. Serbia
last cut its benchmark rate on Oct. 18, with the central bank
citing confidence in the government’s fiscal restraint amid
appreciation pressures on the dinar, which has prompted the
regulator to buy euros to stem currency gains.  “As inflationary pressures and inflation expectations
continue to subside, the Executive Board expects year-on-year
inflation to fall close to the lower end of the target tolerance
band in October,” policy makers said in the statement.
“Inflation being already at a low level, future monetary policy
measures will be geared at keeping it within the target
tolerance band.”  Weaker Dinar  The dinar traded 0.2 percent weaker at 114.2235 per euro at
1:23 p.m. in Belgrade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Serbian currency has weakened 0.7 percent against the euro
during the past 12 months.  Two cuts in three weeks that shaved 1 percentage point off
the key rate may be followed by another one on Dec. 12 when rate
setters meet again, Eldar Vakhitov, an emerging-markets
economist at Barclays Plc in  London , said in an e-mail.  “I think they could well cut by another 50 basis points in
December,” he said. “It depends also where they want to see
their policy rate in the end -- 9 percent could be the bottom,
given also that inflation is close to flattening out.”  The inflation rate fell to a 16-month-low of 4.9 percent in
September, returning to the central bank’s target tolerance band
for the first time since June 2012. The monetary authority
 targets  price growth at 4 percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage
point, this year and next.  Fiscal Outlook  The government projects 2014 economic growth at 1 percent,
according to the draft budget, compared with a 2 percent
forecast by the  International Monetary Fund  and a maximum 0.5
percent estimate by the Fiscal Council, a three-member body
appointed by parliament to oversee budgetary compliance.  “The expected effects of fiscal consolidation and positive
developments in international financial markets will contribute
to keeping year-on-year inflation within the target tolerance
band” in 2014, the central bank said.  Serbia has pledged a three-year fiscal consolidation of 1.6
billion euros ($2.2 billion) through 2016. Savings in the
consolidated budget of 0.1 percent of gross domestic product
will be equivalent to about 30 million euros. One-time spending
to overhaul state companies and prop up some commercial banks
will push the 2014 deficit to 7.1 percent of GDP from 6.5
percent this year.  A rate cut “is a sign that the central bank is convinced
the government will implement fiscal consolidation measures,”
Ljiljana Grubic, an economist at Raiffeisen Bank AD in Belgrade,
said by phone today. “But it’s also a sign that economic growth
next year will be a greater problem than this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  