-- Siemens Plans $5.4 Billion Buyback as Chief Sees Recovery
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-11-07T08:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/siemens-plans-4-billion-euro-buyback-as-charges-decline.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, will buy back as much as 4 billion euros
($5.4 billion) of shares as Chief Executive Officer Joe Kaeser
bets that an efficiency push will boost profitability next year.  Siemens, which today reported fourth-quarter earnings that
beat analyst estimates, intends to raise its profit margin to
about 10 percent of sales next year from 7.6 percent in 2013,
Kaeser said at a press conference. The Munich-based company had
earlier this year abandoned a target for 12 percent
profitability. The stock rose as much as 2.7 percent.  “Results are better than expected and the buyback is at
the upper end of market expectations,” said  Ben Uglow , an
analyst at Morgan Stanley. “This looks to us like a new CEO
ensuring Siemens does not repeat past mistakes.”  Former finance chief Kaeser became CEO after predecessor
 Peter Loescher  slashed a profit target five times in his six-year tenure. To match the profitability of rivals such as  ABB
Ltd. (ABBN)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) , Kaeser also needs to reduce
charges for mismanaged projects that have weighed upon Siemens’s
earnings in recent years. The German company today forecast a
minimum 15 percent jump in net income in fiscal 2014.  “We need to execute well on projects and get our
operational profitability and excellence back in line,” Kaeser,
who took over in August, told Bloomberg Television in an
interview. “That will give us about a 200 to 300 base points
improvement of operational margins.”  Job Cuts  Income from continuing operations fell 13 percent to 1.08
billion euros in the fourth quarter, Siemens said in a statement
today. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had on average estimated
997 million euros. Revenue declined 1.3 percent to 21.2 billion
euros.  Kaeser is picking up the mantle left by Loescher, who
started a savings plan aimed at shaving 6.3 billion euros from
costs by the end of 2014. The benefits didn’t trickle through in
time to save his career at Siemens, and Loescher was ousted in
July after saying margins would miss the 12 percent target.  The German company’s 9.5 percent margin last year lagged
the 10.3 percent and 15 percent of ABB and GE, respectively.  The arrival of Kaeser and the bet that he can tackle the
sprawling 82 billion-euro company has helped boost shares of
Siemens 19 percent year to date. It has 60 sub-units that make
products including trains, gas turbines, medical scanners and
factory-automation gear. ABB is up 23 percent this year.  Siemens gained as much as 2.47 euros to 93.90 euros and was
up 2.2 percent as of 9:34 a.m. local time, valuing the company
at 83 billion euros.  Buyback Proceeds  As part of a slimdown, Siemens earlier this year sold a
stake in Nokia Siemens Networks for 1.7 billion euros. Kaeser is
selling assets as he focuses on businesses he deems to have
better growth prospects. Yesterday, Siemens said it agreed to
sell part of its water-technologies division to AEA Investors
for 640 million euros.  “Siemens had proceeds from the NSN sale, which gives some
room for a buyback, as well as about 4 billion euros free cash
flow,” Frankfurt-based Commerzbank analyst Ingo-Martin Schachel, who rates Siemens hold, said by telephone. Operational
improvements and higher volumes in volatile sectors such as wind
power contributed to the better-than-expected profit, he added.  Energy Leads  Siemens proposed leaving the dividend steady at 3 euros per
share. The company incurred restructuring charges totaling 1.3
billion euros as it drove ahead with its efficiency plan. About
15,000 jobs, or 4 percent of the workforce, will be eliminated.  Charges for metals technologies projects and delays in
wind-transmission installations topped 89 million euros in the
fourth quarter, adding to 115 million euros in impairments at
units it has sold or plans to divest and a 30 million-euro
impairment at the low and medium voltage unit.  The energy sector was the only division to improve
profitability in the fourth quarter, posting profit of 564
million euros, compared with 163 million euros a year earlier,
on sales of 7.4 billion euros. Profit declined 4.8 percent to
601 million euros at the health sector, 61 percent to 278
million euros at the industry unit, and 60 percent to 166
million euros at the infrastructure and cities unit.  Identifying Markets  The CEO said last month the infrastructure division, the
least profitable at Siemens, needs to better identify the
markets it wants to target. The division has faced investor
criticism since it was carved out by Loescher from existing
units in 2011. Kaeser is considering disbanding the sector as
soon as next October,  Germany ’s Manager Magazin reported Oct.
17.  Siemens should sell the division’s transportation unit,
adding to already planned divestments of postal and baggage
handling businesses, while reshaping the company structure over
the next five years, Societe Generale SA analysts including Gael de Bray has said. Spinning off the healthcare sector could also
unlock value of 6 euros a share, the analysts added, questioning
whether the division fitted into Kaeser’s attempt to focus
Siemens “along the electrification chain”.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  