-- Singapore Exchange to Adopt LSE Clearing Platform From Late 2015
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-11-07T08:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/singapore-exchange-to-adopt-lse-clearing-platform-from-late-2015.html
Singapore Exchange  Ltd. will use
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  technology for a new post-trade
system to offer multi-currency and multi-asset products as the
Asian bourse operator expands cooperation with the U.K. company.  The platform, created with LSE’s MillenniumIT unit, will
begin operating in phases from the end of 2015, according to the
statement. The system will include clearing, settlement and
depository services and support linkages with other markets,
depositories and clearinghouses. It will enable retail investors
to give their brokers access to information on all their
investments held with SGX’s depository.  The agreement marks another link between the exchanges
after they introduced trading in the largest and most active
stocks on each others’ markets in 2012. LSE, which bought
Colombo-based MillenniumIT in 2009, is seeking to increase sales
from technology and clearing to offset declining capital-markets
revenue.  “Our customers can expect improved access, efficiency and
flexibility in the types of products and services we will offer
once the system is in place,”  Magnus Bocker , chief executive
officer of SGX, said in the statement.  MillenniumIT already provides clearing technology for the
Argentina Central Securities Depositary and trading systems for
Norway’s Oslo Bors, according to statements on its website. LSE
is the majority owner of LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., the world’s
largest swap clearinghouse.  SGX earned S$54.4 million ($43.8 million) in revenue from
securities clearing in the three months ended Sept. 30, a 17
percent increase from the same period a year earlier, according
to a regulatory filing. Derivatives revenue climbed 16 percent
to S$51.7 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  