-- Skanska Predicts Weak European Market as Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-11-07T08:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/skanska-predicts-weak-european-market-as-profit-misses-estimates.html
Skanska AB (SKAB)  said European markets are
expected to remain weak with intense competition in the coming
year as the Nordic region’s biggest builder posted third-quarter
profit that missed analysts estimates.  Net income fell to 1.04 billion kronor ($161 million) from
1.14 billion kronor a year earlier, the  Stockholm , Sweden-based
company said in a statement today. Analysts predicted profit of
1.17 billion kronor, according to the average of seven
 estimates . Revenue increased 4.4 percent to 34.8 billion kronor,
according to segment reporting, topping the average estimate of
34.7 billion in a Bloomberg survey.  “The extended market recession in the Czech Republic and
Slovakia has led to a substantial reduction in our business
volume,” Chief Executive Officer Johan Karlstrom said in the
statement. “The political situation surrounding the U.S.
economy is resulting in a more cautious attitude among some
private clients in the U.S. energy sector, which may delay the
start of new projects.”  Skanska has been targeting higher growth in the U.S.
commercial property market as Europe suffered from lackluster
growth. The company will invest about 2.3 billion kronor in two
new projects in the country, while it sold developments in
Finland and  Poland . The U.S. contributed about 30 percent of
revenue in 2012, compared with more than 60 percent from Europe,
including the Nordic countries.  Skanska’s shares fell as much as 2.7 percent in Stockholm
and were down 2 percent at 123.9 kronor as of 9:22 a.m. local
time. That paired their advance to 17 percent this year for a
market value of 52.2 billion kronor.  Skanska said its Czech unit has been restructured and the
value of assets and projects were written down by 220 million
kronor in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  