-- SocGen Holds Newedge Talks With Agricole as Profits Miss
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-11-07T08:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/socgen-credit-agricole-in-unit-talks-as-net-disappoints.html
Societe Generale SA and  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , two of  France ’s biggest banks, reported higher
earnings and said they are in talks to swap stakes in
derivatives broker Newedge Group and asset manager Amundi Group.  Societe Generale, the country’s second-largest bank by
market value, said today that third-quarter net income rose
almost six-fold to 534 million euros ($722 million) from a year
earlier, while Credit Agricole posted profit of 728 million
euros after reporting a 2.85 billion-euro loss a year ago. The
shares rose.  French banks are dealing with the aftermath of the deepest
global financial crisis since the 1930s, booking costs for
shrinking operations and setting aside provisions for bad loans
and litigation. Credit Agricole plans to increase its stake in
Amundi to 80 percent from 75 percent, while  Societe Generale (GLE) 
would double its share of Newedge to 100 percent, they said.  Sole ownership of Newedge “will offer us an opportunity to
grow our fixed-income activities, our geographical footprint and
to develop new synergies” in revenues and costs, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Severin Cabannes said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  Societe Generale rose 0.6 percent to 40.83 euros by 9:06
a.m. in Paris trading. The stock has climbed 44 percent this
year, compared with a 17 percent gain for the Bloomberg Europe
Banks & Financial Services Index. Credit Agricole advanced 1.9
percent, taking its increase this year to 47 percent.  Litigation Expenses  Societe Generale said the provisions it makes for items
such as litigation and non-performing loans increased to 1.09
billion euros in the third quarter from 897 million euros a year
earlier, as it set aside an additional 200 million euros for
legal expenses.  Regulators around the world are investigating whether more
than a dozen firms colluded to rig various benchmark rates to
mask their true cost of borrowing.  Credit Agricole CEO Jean-Paul Chifflet, speaking on a call
with journalists, said the bank has rejected a deal with
European authorities over alleged Euribor manipulation.  “We have a very good case,” said Chifflet, 64. “I’ve
refused a settlement because it could have put into question our
responsibility.”  Societe Generale’s core Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio under
Basel 3 rules, a key measure of financial strength, increased to
9.9 percent at the end of September from 9.4 percent in June.
The leverage ratio -- or equity as a proportion of total assets
-- was 3.3 percent under Basel 3, the bank said.  Job Cuts  Profit from the French consumer-banking network fell 12
percent to 308 million euros in the third quarter from a year
ago as provisions increased 22 percent, Societe Generale said.
It cited a “still challenging macro-economic environment.”  Net income from international consumer banking declined 25
percent to 84 million euros as operating revenue fell, it said.  Societe Generale is planning to cut 375 jobs at its
securities services business, which includes custody and
depositary services, according to a document on the website of
the CFDT labor union. The plan would include transferring some
fund-administration positions to Bangalore,  India , according to
the union.  Societe Generale is in talks with unions about “making
adjustments for the future,” CEO Frederic Oudea said on an
interview with BFM radio today.  Credit Agricole said its third-quarter earnings were hit by
a charge of 155 million euros it made in preparation for the
sale of the 50 percent stake in derivatives broker Newedge.  Newedge Stake  Newedge has cut jobs and reduced costs to offset declining
trading volumes. Credit Agricole’s exit is part of a strategy by
its corporate and investment banking unit to exit brokerage
activities.  The bank, which has France’s largest branch network and
consumer-banking units in  Italy , said provisions for bad loans
decreased 32 percent to 653 million euros in the third quarter.  Credit Agricole Group, which regulators and rating
companies look at for compliance with international rules, had a
common equity Tier 1 capital ratio under fully-applied Basel III
standards of 10.5 percent at the end of September, up from 10
percent at the end of June, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 