-- Southwest, JetBlue Said to Show AMR-US Air Slot Interest
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-11-08T00:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/southwest-jetblue-said-to-show-amr-us-air-slot-interest.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and  JetBlue
Airways Corp. (JBLU)  told regulators they’re interested in acquiring
Washington flight slots that may be available under a settlement
of the U.S. lawsuit to block the American Airlines- US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  merger, people familiar with the matter said.  The carriers want American and US Airways to give up as
many slots as possible at Reagan National Airport, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because details are
private. Southwest also is in discussions with the Justice
Department about adding slots at New York’s LaGuardia Airport,
one person said.  Having a market for the slots would clear a possible hurdle
as  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American, US Airways and the Justice Department
explore resolving the antitrust lawsuit filed Aug. 13 to block
the merger. A post-merger American would have an unacceptably
high 69 percent of Reagan National flights, the U.S. says.  For Southwest and JetBlue, the Justice Department’s
insistence on AMR-US Airways asset sales as a condition to
approve a merger creates an opportunity to expand at Reagan
National, the only one of  Washington ’s three major airports with
federal flight limits.  Attorney General Eric Holder said Nov. 4 that divestitures
would be required at crucial airports across the U.S. as part of
“any resolution in this case.” If settlement talks don’t
succeed, the U.S. is prepared to go to trial Nov. 25, he said.  Justice, Airlines  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on whether the department is in discussions with
Southwest and JetBlue about slot divestitures.  American declined to comment, said Michael Trevino, a
spokesman. Ed Stewart, a spokesman for Tempe, Arizona-based US
Airways at Fleishman Hillard Inc., Southwest’s Beth Harbin and
Jenny Dervin at JetBlue also said they had no comment.  Southwest plans to argue in the antitrust lawsuit that the
increased concentration of slots as a result of the merger of
American and US Airways would “substantially lessen”
competition, according to a court filing today in federal court
in Washington. The carrier won permission from the judge
overseeing the case to file a friend-of-the-court brief.  “Those anticompetitive effects could be mitigated only if
a significant number of slots were divested to Southwest,” the
airline said.  JetBlue fell 1.7 percent to $7.51 at the close in New York,
while Southwest slid 1.3 percent to $17.57 and US Airways
dropped 1.4 percent to $22.08. AMR’s over-the-counter shares
gained 0.1 percent to $9.23.  Biggest Carrier  A merger between American, the third-largest U.S. airline,
and No. 5 US Airways would create the world’s biggest carrier by
traffic. Dallas-based Southwest is the largest discount airline
and is now in the fourth spot in the U.S. industry, while New
York-based JetBlue is in sixth place.  The Southwest-JetBlue discussions with regulators build on
the interest in Reagan National slots expressed publicly by the
carriers in the months since Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR and US
Airways announced plans to merge on Feb. 14.  Southwest Chief Executive Officer Gary Kelly said on an
Oct. 24 conference call that he was “absolutely” interested in
more Reagan National access and “more slots at LaGuardia as
well.”  “I’m reasonably confident that there will be slots that
become available and then I am assuming that there will be an
opportunity to bid,” Kelly said. “So if there is that
opportunity, we’ll certainly take advantage of the bidding.”  JetBlue wrote U.S. Senator Charles Schumer, a New York
Democrat, in March to demand that “a significant number” of
slots be divested at Reagan National. CEO Dave Barger said in
September that American should have to cede the equivalent of
all its current flights there, which would leave the merged
airline with the 55 percent market share held by US Airways.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  