-- South Africa’s Rand Fluctuates Before Manufacturing Data
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-11-07T08:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/south-africa-s-rand-fluctuates-before-manufacturing-data.html
The rand fluctuated against the
dollar before data that may show manufacturing was unchanged in
September after five months of expansion and before today’s
 European Central Bank  policy meeting.  The ECB is set to keep its main  interest rate  on hold,
according to the median estimate of 70 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. U.S. growth data today and payrolls figures tomorrow may
help investors gauge the Federal Reserve outlook after two
papers from central bank officials said the level of slack, or
unused capacity, in the world’s biggest economy justifies
accommodative policy.  “Today’s data releases and news flow could have
significant consequences for the rand,” Theuns de Wet, head of
global markets research at Rand Merchant Bank, said in an e-mail. If data on U.S. gross domestic product “surprises on the
high side of expectations and the ECB hints at further policy
easing, the dollar could find renewed support and the rand could
weaken along with it.”  The currency gained as much as 0.2 percent and weakened as
much as 0.3 percent before trading little changed at 10.2679 per
dollar as of 10:32 a.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on the
government’s benchmark bonds due December 2026 fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, 8.18 percent.  The  U.S. economy  probably grew at a 2 percent annualized
rate in the third quarter, compared with a 2.5 percent increase
in the previous three months, according to a Bloomberg survey
before today’s report. Data tomorrow may show payrolls climbed
by 120,000 in October and the  unemployment rate  increased to 7.3
percent from 7.2 percent in the previous month, according to a
separate survey.  Mining Production  South African factory output was unchanged last month from
a year earlier, a report may show at 1 p.m., according to a
 survey  of 15 analysts. Mining production probably rose 8.8
percent, from 2.1 percent, a separate report may show today. The
country’s gross foreign exchange and gold reserves dropped to
$49.71 billion in October from $50.02 billion the month before,
the central bank said today.  Foreign investors sold a net 762 million rand ($74 million)
of South African  bonds  and 439 million rand of  stocks  yesterday,
a third day of outflows, according to JSE Ltd. data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  