-- St. Nick’s Blackface Helpers Ignite Dutch Racism Debate
-- B y   C e l e s t e   P e r r i ,   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-11-07T15:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/st-nick-s-blackface-helpers-ignite-dutch-racism-debate.html
There are some things Dutch kids can
count on. Rain. Bicycles. And every year, on a cold November
day, a gift-bearing Saint Nicholas will arrive, accompanied by
African-looking helpers.  While the three weeks of festivities leading up to the Dec.
5 celebration of Sinterklaas, or Saint Nicholas, will surely
take place this year, they’re drawing international scrutiny. A
panel that advises the  United Nations  on human rights  has
questioned  whether depictions of the mischievous helpers,
collectively called Black Petes and typically portrayed by
whites in blackface paint, are racist.  That has fueled a furious backlash among the Dutch: More
than 2 million people have liked a  Facebook (FB)  group supporting the
Petes. Fewer than 13,000 have joined another group saying they
are racist.  Anouk , a Dutch singer who this year represented the country
at the Eurovision Song Contest, in recent weeks has spoken out
against traditional portrayals of the Black Petes. In response,
she says, she has received hate messages.  Retailers are voting for the Petes by keeping shelves
stocked with goods bearing their image. Stores run by  Royal
Ahold NV, (AH)  owner of the Stop & Shop chain in the U.S., sell
everything from Black Pete children’s outfits and face-painting
kits to bath gels bearing grinning Black Petes with wide lips
and gold hoop earrings. Giant stuffed Petes will again climb the
atrium at De  Bijenkorf , Amsterdam’s premier department store.
Toy store Bart Smit sells Playmobil sets of three Black Petes
for 9.99 euros ($13.50).  Slavery History  Blackface, the practice of painting a person of European
descent to look African, has long been decried in the U.S. and
elsewhere as racist. Backers of the Petes are quick to point out
that the Netherlands doesn’t have the same history of slavery as
the U.S. and say there’s nothing negative about Black Pete being
black. “This is part of our heritage,” says Erik Maarten
Muller, a Web designer in the northern Dutch city of Den Helder.
“We should be allowed to keep that.”  It’s unclear when the Dutch Saint Nicholas, by legend a
bishop who spends most of the year in Spain, acquired black
helpers. Many trace the modern version of the tale to an 1850
book called “Saint Nicholas and his Servant,” in which an
African boy accompanied Nick.  Not ‘Tolerated’  “The figure Black Pete has been made up by a writer in the
19th century at a time slavery still existed,” said Jimmy
Veldwijk, 49, a DJ who came to the Netherlands from  Suriname  at
the age of two. “This personality is clearly based on a slave.
That can no longer be tolerated in the 21st century.”  Undisputed is that Black Pete is big business. The country
is full of Petes in the weeks after Saint Nicholas’s steamboat
arrives at a different Dutch port every year, in a nationally
televised event with actors playing the saint and his Petes.
Shops host Saint Nicholas events, and blackface Petes walk the
streets hauling bags filled with gingersnaps for kids.  In most families the occasion trumps Christmas, when dinner
is the main event, as the biggest gift-giving occasion of the
year; it accounted for $675 million in sales in 2012, according
to  Detailhandel Nederland , a trade group of Dutch retailers. The
Dutch will spend an average of 286 euros ($382) on gifts, food,
drinks and socializing in total this holiday season, a study
released by Deloitte LLP showed today.  “As long as Saint Nicholas is celebrated by a large part
of the population in the Netherlands and there’s demand for the
products, supermarkets will continue to sell them,” says
Miranda Boer, a spokeswoman for  Centraal Bureau
Levensmiddelenhandel,  an industry group of food retailers. Ahold
referred requests for comment to the CBL.  Aunt Jemima  Some companies are cautious. Clothing and housewares
retailer Hema says it’s “closely monitoring” the debate to
decide how to proceed. Airport operator Schiphol Group says it
focuses decorations on Christmas rather than Saint Nicholas
because of its international audience. The Dutch postal service,
which this year for the first time included Saint Nick on
seasonal stamps, chose to represent Pete in silhouette.  In the U.S., pancake mix pitchwoman Aunt Jemima and rice
man Uncle Ben both underwent makeovers to remove negative racial
stereotypes decades ago. Today the Washington Redskins football
franchise is under renewed pressure to change its name, which
critics say is a racial epithet.  Branding experts say Black Pete is here to stay.  “You can’t prevent people from keeping a tradition
alive,” saysSuzanne Stahlie, a managing director at retail
consulting firm FutureBrand in Paris.  Chimney Dust  Some contend that Black Pete is evolving. Actor Erik van
Muiswinkel, who plays the coveted role of “Head Pete” in Saint
Nicholas’s entry boat parade each year, says while Pete once was
Saint Nick’s silly sidekick and enforcer -- beating kids who
were naughty, not nice, and stuffing them into a sack to be
hauled off to  Spain  -- he’s becoming a clever right-hand man.  “It’s perfectly possible to make Pete gradually less black
and less of a servant,” Van Muiswinkel wrote to Dutch newspaper
 NRC  on Oct. 22, adding that some Petes are now women and that
most no longer fake an exaggerated accent. Some people have
advocated a dusting of paint on the Petes’ faces rather than
full-on paint with the explanation that he got dirty going down
the chimney.  The fate of this year’s parade in Amsterdam is in flux,
with a district court scheduled to hear arguments on Nov. 8
about prohibiting it.  Prime MinisterMark Rutte has issued his verdict on the
matter, saying the issue is up to society to decide. “Everyone
who wants to invite a White Pete to his house is free to do
so,” Rutte told reporters on Oct. 18. “But the historical
parable is about Saint Nicholas and Black Pete. And black is
really black. I can’t do much to change that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  