-- Stanford Proves Endowed Coaches Make Winning Teams Not Just Luck
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-11-07T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/stanford-proves-endowed-coaches-make-winning-teams-not-just-luck.html
Private equity firm founder Bradford Freeman made it onto the field for one play as a Stanford
University scholarship football player and jokes that he is
“the highest-paid student-athlete, per minute, in history.”  He’s more than paid the school back since.  Freeman, 71, chairman of Los Angeles-based Freeman Spogli &
Co., became a pioneer when he gave $1.6 million in 1989 to endow
the head football coaching position at Stanford. Almost a
quarter-century later, the university has $35 million in sports
coach endowments and schools throughout the U.S. have adopted
similar programs to help finance athletics.  “I played 10 seconds in four years,” he said in a
telephone interview. “They took a chance on me and obviously
did not get their money’s worth from a football standpoint, and
I sort of felt I owed it to them.”  Freeman will be at Stanford Stadium tonight when the
Cardinal host  Oregon  in a game with championship implications.
Oregon (8-0) is ranked No. 3 in the Bowl Championship Series
standings that determine which teams play for the national title,
while Stanford (7-1) is ranked fifth among the 125 U.S. colleges
included on the list.  Freeman, who graduated from Stanford in 1964 with a
bachelor’s degree in economics and went to Harvard Business
School, also has endowed an academic vice provost and athletic
scholarships at Stanford as well as the campus’s Freeman Spogli
Institute for International Studies.  His football endowment has helped pay the salary of coaches
including Bill Walsh and Jim Harbaugh, as well as the current
Bradford M. Freeman Director of Football, David Shaw.  Stanford Way  “At Stanford, it’s not just people giving money to
football, it’s people giving money to the way we do things with
the caliber of young men that we do it with,” Shaw said in an
interview. “A guy like Brad Freeman loves what Stanford’s about
and loves to help provide an atmosphere for these young people
to play great football at a great school.”  Stanford Athletic Director Bernard Muir says donors endowed
the positions of Shaw and nine other Cardinal head coaches. Shaw
is not the only Stanford football coach with a title.  The Andrew Luck Director of Offense and Willie Shaw
Director of Defense (named for David Shaw’s father, a former
Stanford and National Football League assistant coach) were
endowed this year by an anonymous donor. In June, Stanford’s
Shannon Turley became the nation’s first endowed strength and
conditioning coach.  “I definitely didn’t feel like I accomplished as much as
John Elway or Jim Plunkett or Frankie Albert or John Brodie,
some of the great quarterbacks from Stanford’s history,” said
Luck, who threw 82 touchdown passes at Stanford from 2009-11 and
now is in his second season with the NFL’s Indianapolis Colts.
“I was very humbled when the individual asked me for my
blessing to do it.”  Ivy League  Endowed coaching positions are also in the Ivy League, and
are becoming more popular at schools ranging from private Duke
University in Durham, North Carolina, to public  Michigan  State
University in East Lansing, Michigan.  Seven of the eight Ivy League schools have endowed football
head coaches, with Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island,
the only exception. Endowed Ivy League coaching positions also
range from lacrosse and women’s ice hockey at Harvard to women’s
squash at Brown and men’s heavyweight crew at Dartmouth.  Even smaller schools such as Lafayette College in Easton,
 Pennsylvania , have endowed football coaches, and some
universities have naming-rights menus on their websites.  Endowment Price  At Michigan State, endowing the football or men’s
basketball head coach  costs $5 million . Duke’s website says
“ $5,000,000 will establish an endowment  supporting the head
coach of football, men’s basketball, or women’s basketball” --
the same amount needed to endow an academic dean’s position. At
Texas Tech, the  price list  ranges from $2 million for the head
football coach to $750,000 for head coaches in sports including
volleyball, cross country and women’s golf.  Muir calls the endowment of coaches and student
scholarships a “critical component” of the school’s ability to
field 36 varsity sports involving more than 900 athletes.  Scholarships account for about 20 percent of Stanford’s
$100 million athletic department budget, Muir said, and most of
those scholarships are endowed.  “It’s a vital part of what we’re trying to accomplish here
at Stanford,” Muir said in an interview. “It strengthens our
overall brand.”  Freeman grew up in Fargo, North Dakota, and hitchhiked to
the West Coast after getting his Stanford athletic scholarship.
Twenty-five years after graduating from the school near Palo
Alto,  California , the former Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. managing
director thought about endowing an academic chair before asking
if he could do the same with a coach.  ’Major Influence’  “Stanford is a major influence on my life and I felt I
wanted to give back,” Freeman said. “A lot of people were
giving to professors, and I just thought it was a quirky idea to
give to a coach. It was very unusual at the time I did it. I
think I started a trend.”  Five years later, Tom Stephenson -- a business school
classmate of Freeman and later a partner at Menlo Park,
California-based venture capital firm Sequoia Capital -- gave $2
million to make the Crimson head football coach the first
endowed athletic department position at Harvard.  Paulson’s Donation  Henry Paulson, the former U.S. Treasury secretary and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. chairman, gave a $2 million gift to
Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire, in 2000 endowing
the Robert L. Blackman Head Coach. Paulson was an offensive
lineman at Dartmouth from 1965 to 1967, when Blackman was the
head coach and the Big Green went 23-4.  Muir, the athletic director, and coach Shaw say Freeman
enjoys hearing about Stanford’s team and meeting the players,
but has never tried to make suggestions about how to run the
program. Freeman agreed he should not play such a role.  “I’m hands off. Once they tried asking me a couple of
things many coaches ago, and I’m not sure why,” Freeman said.
“That would be like some coach coming in and telling me how to
buy a company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  