-- Statoil Sees Chance of Arctic Oil Finds Increased by OMV Success
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-11-07T17:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/statoil-sees-chance-of-arctic-oil-finds-increased-by-omv-success.html
Statoil ASA sees chances of finding
oil in the northernmost area drilled in Norway’s Arctic rising
with a recent nearby discovery of crude by  OMV AG. (OMV)   “It was really fantastic news for us, being a partner in
that license and that of course also increased the probability
of oil” to the north, Gro Haatvedt, Norway exploration chief,
said today in an interview in Oslo. “The whole area there could
then hold a very high potential of oil resources and it would be
easier to get commerciality than in gas only.”  Norway’s largest energy company will drill 20-25
exploration wells off the country’s shores, including as many as
seven in the Arctic Barents Sea, Stavanger-based Statoil said
today in a statement.  The Apollo and Atlantis prospects in the Hoop area that
Statoil plans to explore during the second and third quarters
are about 50 kilometers (30 miles) north of where OMV found as
much as 160 million barrels of crude oil in September.  Norway is expanding into the  Barents Sea  to compensate for
dwindling reserves in decades-old North Sea fields as oil output
is seen falling for a 13th year. While discoveries such as Johan
Castberg, Wisting and  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE) ’s Gohta are spurring
exploration, oil finds are more favorable than natural gas as
there’s lack of infrastructure to get the latter to market.  Statoil shelved plans to expand liquefaction capacity last
year for its Snohvit gas deposit, the only producing field in
the Barents Sea, due to a shortage of resources. The company,
operating more than 70 percent of Norway’s oil and gas output,
says it would need to add resources of a similar size to the 190
billion cubic meters in Snohvit to build a southbound pipeline.  Johan Castberg  Statoil will also continue exploring the area surrounding
Johan Castberg to try to add to resources of 400 million to 600
million barrels of oil. It earlier this year put development on
hold because of increased costs, taxes and resource-estimate
uncertainty. Beyond the planned Skavl and Kramsnoe prospects, it
added Drivis, all to be drilled by early 2014, according to the
statement. It’s studying further prospects in the area.  While Statoil has “big expectations” for Hoop and the
Castberg area, Haatvedt said the Gohta find, the first in
Permian layers in  Norway  with enough oil flow, opens new
possibilities.  “It’s really interesting that another new place is being
opened up,” she said. “We have been targeting several of these
carbonate reservoirs in the Barents Sea and we haven’t succeeded
so far.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net ;
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  