-- Suntech Says U.S. Bankruptcy Could Derail Restructuring
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-11-07T21:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/suntech-says-u-s-bankruptcy-could-derail-restructuring.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
Chinese maker of solar panels whose main unit is reorganizing in
the Cayman Islands, told a Manhattan court that an involuntary
bankruptcy petition against it in the U.S. could derail
restructuring efforts.  The creditors seeking the U.S. bankruptcy are a “tiny
minority,” holding only 0.27 percent of the company’s
outstanding debt, Suntech said in papers filed yesterday seeking
to have the case dismissed.  The creditors’ action could “derail the substantial
progress Suntech has made in reaching a consensual restructuring
with a wide array of its stakeholders, including a substantial
percentage of its funded debt creditors,” the company said.  Suntech American depositary  receipts , each worth one
ordinary share, fell 30 percent to 88 cents at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York , compared with a closing high for the year of $1.87.  Trondheim Capital Partners LP, Michael Meixler and Longball
Holdings LLC filed the involuntary petition under Chapter 7 of
the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  in New York on Oct. 14. They said they
held $578,230.68 in claims against the company.  The petitioners didn’t follow proper procedure, Suntech
said in its filing. Some claims were acquired just before the
case was started, a sign they were bought for the purpose of
trying to force Suntech into U.S. bankruptcy, the company said.  No Assets  Wuxi, China-based Suntech, the world’s biggest solar-panel
maker in 2011, said it’s incorporated in the Cayman Islands and
has no operations or significant assets in New York. It has $541
million of senior notes outstanding and a $50 million
convertible loan, according to court papers.  On Sept. 23, Suntech reached a deal with Clearwater Capital
LLC and Spinnaker Capital Ltd., which act for noteholders with
more than 48 percent of its notes, on how it will reorganize.
The agreement calls for a debt-for-equity swap for the
noteholders.  The company’s main unit was pulled into bankruptcy
proceedings by Chinese banks after it missed a bond payment in
March.  Shunfeng Photovoltaic International Ltd. (1165) , agreed to buy
the unit on Nov. 1 for 3 billion  yuan  ($492 million).  The case is In re Suntech Power Holdings Co.; 13-bk-13350,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  