-- Swiss Re Net Beats Analyst Forecasts as Non-Life Sales Jump
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-11-07T08:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/swiss-re-net-drops-51-after-year-earlier-gain-from-asset-sale.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, reported better than expected third-quarter
profit after non-life premiums rose by a fifth.  Net income fell 51 percent to $1.07 billion from a year
ago, the Zurich-based reinsurer said in a statement today. That
beat the $755 million average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Swiss Re shares rose the most in five months.  Profit last year was boosted by a $626 million gain from
the sale of Swiss Re’s U.S. Admin Re business to London-based
 Prudential Plc. (PRU)  Swiss Re reiterated its 2015 financial targets
and said it may pay another special dividend.  “This is a solid result helped by a better than expected
non-life segment,” Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based analyst at
Vontobel Holding AG who has a buy rating on the stock, said in a
note to investors. “The wording in regard to a special dividend
being possible” should increase market confidence for a high
payout, he said.  Swiss Re rose as much as 3.4 percent and was up 3.2 percent
to 82.40 francs at 9:01 a.m. in Zurich trading, valuing the
company at 30.6 billion Swiss francs ($33.6 billion). The stock
has risen 25 percent this year.  Non-life premiums increased by 20 percent to $3.95 billion,
Swiss Re said.  “This strong result demonstrates our excellent underlying
earning power,” said Chief Executive Officer Michel Lies in the
statement. “Property and casualty reinsurance was clearly in
the lead this quarter.”  Combined Ratio  The combined ratio, or claims and expenses as a percentage
of premiums, worsened to 83.4 percent from 72 percent a year
earlier after an increase in losses, including $240 million from
hail storms in  Germany .  Hannover Re (HNR1) , the world’s third-biggest reinsurer, said
earlier this week that third-quarter profit fell 23 percent on
lower investment income.  Swiss Re’s solvency ratio under a Swiss test dropped to 229
percent in the first half of the year from 245 percent at the
end of 2012 because the company switched some investments to
corporate debt and equities from  government bonds . The rules
require insurers to provide a mark-to-market valuation of assets
and liabilities taking into account their investments.  The company said asset rebalancing is “largely completed”
with “high-quality” corporate bonds accounting for 28 percent
of total investments and equities 7 percent after deploying $3
billion of capital.  Meeting Targets  The reinsurer said it remained on track to meet its targets
of a return on equity of 700 basis points above the average
risk-free rate, plus 10 percent average annual growth in both
earnings per share and economic net worth per share plus
dividends.  Swiss Re said last month it will invest as much as $425
million in Richard Li’s FWD Group as it pushes for growth in
 Asia . The company said in July it’s in preliminary talks about
combining its Admin Re business with Phoenix Group Holdings.  Michel Lies said in June that the company’s priority is to
increase its dividend after paying out 3.50 francs per share and
a special dividend of 4 francs earlier this year.  “Our priority is to achieve our financial targets while
providing a sustainable, growing dividend,” Chief Financial
Officer George Quinn said today. “Further  capital management 
measures such as a special dividend are possible but no decision
will be made until we have finalized our year-end results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  