-- Swisscom Names Schaeppi CEO to Succeed Schloter
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-11-07T16:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/swisscom-appoints-internal-candidate-schaeppi-as-ceo.html
Swisscom AG (SCMN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest
phone company, named internal candidate Urs Schaeppi chief
executive officer to succeed Carsten Schloter, who died in July.  Schaeppi, head of the Swiss business, has been interim CEO
since his predecessor’s suspected suicide. The appointment is
effective immediately, the Bern-based company  said today .  The 15-year company veteran will have to come up with a
strategy to combat sluggish consumer demand that’s pushing phone
bills down across  Europe  and in Switzerland. Schaeppi, 53, also
must define the future role of Fastweb SpA, the Italian fixed-line company that Swisscom took over in 2007.  “There is no simple solution for Fastweb and Swisscom
faces a dilemma,” Jacques De Greling, an analyst at Natixis
Securities in Paris, said in a phone interview. “Selling it
would mean admitting to a failure, and Fastweb has been one so
far. If they could get a good price for it, a sale wouldn’t be a
bad thing.”  Under Schloter, Swisscom bought Fastweb for 4.6 billion
euros ($6.2 billion), seeking to make up for slowing growth in
Switzerland, where it made 80 percent of its revenue last year.
The deal failed to reverse Swisscom’s fortunes, and the company
had its first quarterly loss in about a decade in 2011 due to a
1.2 billion-franc ($1.3 billion) writedown related to the unit.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  has considered an acquisition of
Fastweb, people familiar with the matter said in June. The
Newbury, England-based company made two informal approaches this
year and in 2011 that were rejected by Swisscom, two of the
people said at the time.  Stock Gains  Swisscom  rose  2.3 percent to close at 473 francs in Zurich,
giving the company a market value of 24.5 billion francs. The
stock has gained 20 percent this year.  “Fastweb’s performance has been disappointing so far, to
put it mildly,” De Greling said. A sale “would mean that a
company that has the problem of being very Swiss would become
even more Swiss.”  Fastweb isn’t for sale and Swiss will develop its Italian
unit, Schaeppi told reporters during a press briefing today.  Swisscom also said it’s reorganizing to simplify its
structure, combining corporate, network and computer-services
units.  Schloter, Swisscom CEO for seven years, was found dead at
his home on July 23. Police said they suspect he killed himself.  The company reported today a 2.2 percent increase in third-quarter revenue to 2.87 billion francs, beating analysts’
estimates of 2.84 billion francs. Net income rose 0.4 percent to
450 million francs. Swisscom left its full-year  forecasts 
unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  