-- Swiss Housing Market Inches Closer to Bubble, UBS Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-11-07T08:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/switzerland-s-housing-market-inches-closer-to-bubble-ubs-says.html
Risks to the Swiss real estate market
grew more severe in the third quarter, a sign authorities may
weigh further steps to prevent an overheating of the residential
real estate market.  The UBS Swiss Real Estate Bubble Index rose to 1.20 points
in the third quarter from a revised 1.15 points in the second,
according to a statement from  UBS AG (UBSN)  today. A reading above 2
would indicate a bubble.  Switzerland ’s residential property market is experiencing
the strongest rise in two decades, with the central bank’s loose
monetary policy keeping the cost of taking out a mortgage low.
The Zurich-based  Swiss National Bank ’s benchmark interest rate
has been at at zero since August 2011.  The rate of credit growth is outpacing that of the economy,
and the ratio of private debt, primarily  mortgage loans , now
stands at a record 170 percent of annual output, according to
the SNB.  “Although economic growth in the last quarter was higher
than in the previous quarter, it was unable to keep pace with
the price and debt momentum on the residential real estate
market,” Matthias Holzhey and Claudio Saputelli at UBS in
Zurich said.  Capital Buffer  The SNB has sounded the alarm about the  property market 
overheating in a bid to prevent a repeat of the real estate
crisis of the 1990s, which stunted economic growth for years. It
was behind the introduction of a capital buffer for banks in
February.  The buffer of additional capital, which banks have had to
comply with since Sept. 30, currently is set at 1 percent of
risk-weighted assets tied to residential mortgages to guard
against losses on loans. At the behest of the SNB, the
government can raise it to as much as 2.5 percent.  According to UBS, the index’s increase in the third quarter
was driven by an annual 4.2 percent jump in residential-property
prices. The Swiss economy will grow 1.5 percent to 2 percent
this year, the central bank predicts.  Residential real estate prices rose faster than household
incomes in the third quarter, the survey found. The cost of a
mid-priced house was 6.1 times annual  household income , UBS
said, above the long-term average of 5.2 annual incomes.  Damping Effect  Moreover, demand for condominiums as investment properties
remained high, Holzhey and Saputelli said, adding that the
proportion of loan applications received by UBS for properties
not used directly by their owners had risen to 22 percent of
total mortgage requests.  SNB President Thomas Jordan said in September that
regulatory measures, including the buffer, were “having a
damping effect,” according to an interview with Swiss Radio
SRF. The central bank had the real estate market under close
watch and it was too early to evaluate whether further steps
might be required, he said in the interview.  In a sign demand may be cooling, the vacancy rate for Swiss
dwellings rose slightly this year, the federal statistics office
said in September.  According to the index, the regions considered particularly
risky were unchanged in the third quarter, including Geneva,
Lausanne, Zurich and Zug.  Low Rates  SNB Vice President Jean-Pierre Danthine has stressed that
 interest rates  rising from their current lows could cause some
borrowers to struggle with repayments.  The average rate for a 10-year fixed mortgage rose to 2.6
percent in the third quarter from 2.3 in the second, according
to the  Comparis quarterly mortgage barometer . Additionally,
borrowers increasingly preferred taking out five-year mortgages,
rather than 10-year loans, it said.  Credit Suisse economists calculated that a rise in the
average mortgage rate by one percentage point to 3.1 percent
would add 6.4 billion francs ($7 billion) to the aggregate
mortgage burden, a sum equal to 1.1 percent of gross domestic
product, according to a report published in September.  Switzerland is aiming to avoid a repeat of the 1990s, when
a collapse in  house prices  tipped the economy into recession and
caused the failures of banks including Spar- und Leihkasse Thun
and Solothurner Kantonalbank.  The UBS real estate index, whose time series was revised
this quarter, comprises six sub-indicators tracking the
relationships between purchase and rental prices, house prices
and household income, house prices and inflation, mortgage debt
and income, construction and gross domestic product, and the
proportion of credit applications by UBS clients for residential
property not intended for owner occupancy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  