-- U.K. Has No Economic Case to Weaken Carbon Goals: Adviser
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/u-k-has-no-economic-case-to-weaken-carbon-goals-adviser.html
The U.K. has no economic or
scientific cause to weaken its carbon targets, the government’s
adviser on climate change said, reducing the chance ministers
will alter a goal to cut emissions in half by 2027.  Britain charts its emissions cuts in five-year carbon
budgets. In May 2011, it announced a target for CO2 output
during the fourth budget for 2023-2027 to average half the 1990
level. At the same time, it pledged to review the goal in 2014
to make sure it’s in line with commitments by other nations and
won’t damage economic competitiveness.  The goal “remains sensible in light of the latest evidence
on climate science and international action,” John Gummer,
chairman of the government’s adviser, the Committee on Climate
Change, said today in an e-mailed  statement . “There is no legal
or economic case to reduce ambition.” Gummer is a member of the
House of Lords.  The government would be obliged to explain if it doesn’t
follow the committee’s advice when it makes a final decision on
the fourth climate budget next year. The U.K. is conducting a
separate review of green levies on utility bills amid a furor
over rising household energy costs.  Today’s statement is the first of two installments. The
committee will release final advice in December, assessing
technology costs, feasible deployment rates for renewable
energy, the impacts of shale gas, energy affordability and the
security of supply.  ‘Minimum Contribution’  The committee pointed out that a Sept. 27 study by the
United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
suggests “significant cuts” in global emissions are needed to
limit the risk from global warming, and the limits in the fourth
carbon budget are therefore the  “minimum U.K. contribution to
required global action.”  The committee also said that Britain isn’t acting alone,
with many countries making “ambitious commitments.”  The study pointed to efforts by  China  to reduce emissions
per dollar of GDP, lowering the so-called carbon intensity of
its economy, and said the U.S. has a “good chance” of cutting
carbon dioxide output by 17 percent over the 15 years through
2020. It also identified efforts “comparable” to those taken
by the U.K. in  Germany , the wider European Union and  Japan .  The U.K. is pushing for the EU to raise its emissions-reduction target for the three decades to 2020 to 30 percent
from 20 percent. It’s also calling for the 28-nation bloc to
pledge a 50 percent cut by 2030 as part of a global deal to
tackle climate change.  ‘Low End’  “The fourth carbon budget is at the low end of the range
of ambition currently being discussed for EU emissions
reductions through the 2020s,” the committee said. “If the
U.K. government is successful in achieving its objectives for EU
ambition, a tightening of the budget would be needed.”  The fourth carbon budget is for Britain to emit a total of
1,950 million tons of carbon dioxide from 2023 through 2027.
That’s 390 million tons a year, half the 780 million tons of
greenhouse gas pollution the U.K. emitted in 1990, the base year
for the emissions-limiting Kyoto Protocol treaty.  Climate Change Minister Greg Barker said in July that the
U.K. is projected to beat its targeted reductions for the carbon
budgets periods 2013-2017 and 2018-2022. Preliminary data show
the nation beat its first target for the five years through 2012
by more than 100 megatons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  