-- U.K. Says Snowden Leaks Spur Terrorist Rethink on Communications
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-11-07T16:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/u-k-says-snowden-leaks-spur-terrorist-rethink-on-communications.html
Terrorists have been monitored
discussing how they should change their communications after
leaks by former U.S. intelligence contractor Edward Snowden, the
head of Britain’s Government Communications Headquarters
listening post said.  The revelations by Snowden about the scale of the
surveillance activities of the U.S. National Security Agency
will make the job of monitoring criminal communications more
difficult, GCHQ Director Iain Lobban told lawmakers in
Parliament in London today.  “We’ve seen chat among specific terrorist groups
discussing how to avoid what they now perceive to be vulnerable
communications methods,” Lobban said. “The cumulative effect
of the global media coverage will make the job we have far, far
harder for years to come.”  Snowden’s revelations and allegations that the NSA tapped
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s mobile phone have led to
questions about the role of the U.K. intelligence services in
the NSA’s operations.  Germany  also called in Britain’s
ambassador in Berlin two days ago following a newspaper report
that the U.K. was intercepting German communications from its
embassy in the city.  Lobban was appearing alongside Andrew Parker, director
general of MI5, the domestic security service, and the head of
MI6, the overseas intelligence agency, John Sawers, at a meeting
of the cross-party Intelligence and Security Committee. It was
the first time Britain’s spy chiefs had been questioned together
in public.  ‘Lapping It Up’  Sawers, whose agency works to disrupt terrorist activity
outside the U.K., said the leaks have helped Islamist extremists
planning to attack Britain.  “Al-Qaeda is lapping it up,” Sawers said. “It becomes
more difficult to collect the intelligence that this country
needs.”  Pedophiles, who are monitored by GCHQ and are active users
of encryption and anonymization techniques, have also been
monitored discussing the implications of Snowden’s leaks, Lobban
said.  “We have seen in the last five months nearly daily
discussion among some of our targets,” he said. “Discussing
the revelations in specific terms, in terms of communications
packages they’ve used or communications packages they wish to
move to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  