-- U.K. Regulators Find No Gas Price Abuse After Yearlong Probe
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-11-07T15:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/u-k-regulators-find-no-gas-market-abuse-after-yearlong-probe.html
The U.K. natural gas market wasn’t
manipulated by traders in September last year, regulators said
after a one-year investigation into buying and selling in
 Europe ’s biggest consumer of the fuel.  A review by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets and
the Financial Conduct Authority into trading on Sept. 28, 2012,
found no evidence of market manipulation, Ofgem said today in a
statement. It was alleged that trades were made below the best
bid before 4:30 p.m.  London  time, when publishers produce a
benchmark index for the day, Ofgem said.  Price-reporting agency ICIS, a unit of  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) ,
informed Ofgem of irregular trades in October 2012 after former
employee Seth Freedman flagged what he suspected was an attempt
to manipulate assessments in the $480 billion market. Ofgem
opened a consultation into pricing benchmarks in the  energy
industry  in June.  “Market abuse is a very serious concern and I’m determined
that where it exists, the full force of the law is brought to
bear,” U.K. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said today in an e-mailed
statement. “We’re proposing to introduce criminal sanctions for
manipulation of the energy markets.”  The ruling comes amid investigations into financial
benchmarks, including crude oil, the London interbank offered
rate and foreign exchange. Five companies have been fined a
total of $3.7 billion over Libor manipulation.  Oil Manipulation  Four longtime traders in the global oil market claim in a
U.S. lawsuit they can prove that prices for buying and selling
crude have been fixed. At least seven banks including Britain’s
Barclays Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc have said they are being
investigated by authorities examining the $5.3 trillion-a-day
foreign-exchange market and are co-operating.  It was alleged that gas was sold at 58 pence a therm just
before 4:30 p.m. on Sept. 28, 2012, below the best bids, Ofgem
said. That was the lowest price for day-ahead gas in almost a
month, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The sellers of the six 58 pence a therm trades have
provided explanations for the transactions they entered into,
supported by relevant confidential information, to demonstrate
that their trading activity was not improper,” Ofgem said.
“These explanations are credible and no evidence was found
which disputes the explanations provided.”  Monitoring Misconduct  Ofgem has the power to monitor, investigate and take action
against organizations or individuals who carry out energy market
abuse, as part of the European Union’s Regulation of Energy
Market Integrity and Transparency, known as Remit. Ofgem is
responsible for monitoring the physical gas market, while the
FCA regulates the financial  derivatives market .  Ofgem and the FCA will continue to monitor energy and
financial markets, and will work together to consider any
evidence of misconduct, the FCA said today in a statement. No
further action is required in connection with the allegations,
it said.  “This has vindicated the price reporting agencies against
a sensationalist episode,”  Jonathan Stern , chairman of the
Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “They will remain under pressure to
maintain utmost transparency in their methodology and decision-making, in the knowledge that at any time on any day they may be
required to explain why they published the prices they did.”  Freedman declined to comment when contacted today on his
mobile phone.  Index Mistrust  ICIS said in April it may change the way it calculates its
indexes after some clients said they mistrust the company’s
reporter-led assessments. Platts, a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos.
that also provides gas-price indexes, was raided in May as part
of a European Union antitrust probe into the pricing in the
physical oil market.  ICIS will introduce closing-price natural gas indexes based
on executed trades to run alongside some closing index
evaluations in a testing phase for six months, it said following
a consultation that ended March 15.  ICIS’s current methodology “allows for the potential use
of incorrectly reported trades to be factored into the index
calculations, which can result in inaccurate prices being
published,”  Statoil ASA (STL)  said in a public response to the
consultation.  Justine Gillen and Jacqueline Savory, spokeswomen for ICIS
in London, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails and telephone
calls today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  