-- Pound Jumps to 9-Month High Against Euro as ECB Lowers Key Rate
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-11-07T16:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/u-k-pound-little-changed-before-bank-of-england-policy-decision.html
The pound climbed to the strongest
versus the euro in more than nine months after the European
Central Bank unexpectedly lowered its benchmark interest rate,
bolstering demand for alternatives to Europe’s shared currency.  Sterling appreciated for a third day versus the Swiss franc
after the Bank of England kept its key policy rate at a record
low and maintained its bond-buying stimulus target. Britain’s
currency weakened versus the dollar after data showed the
economy in the U.S. expanded in the third quarter. The yield
difference between German and U.K. two-year notes widened to the
most since May as ECB President Mario Draghi said borrowing
costs will remain low for a “prolonged period.”  “The BOE policy stance looks increasingly out of kilter
with the euro area,” said Paul Robson, a London-based foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
“You’ve got one central bank that’s easing and the other that’s
neutral, so that keeps the pound strong versus the euro.
Sterling should do well against most European currencies.”  The pound rose 0.8 percent to 83.33 pence per euro at 4:37
p.m. London time after appreciating to 83.01 pence, the
strongest level since Jan. 17. Sterling climbed 0.6 percent to
1.4750 Swiss francs. Britain’s currency fell 0.1 percent to
$1.6067.  The Frankfurt-based ECB cut its main refinancing rate to
0.25 percent, as forecast by three of 70 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The remaining 67 analysts predicted the ECB
would keep borrowing costs at 0.5 percent.  Stimulus Target  The Bank of England’s nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee, led by Governor Mark Carney, left its asset-purchase
 target  at 375 billion pounds, as predicted by all 46 analysts in
a Bloomberg News survey. Officials also kept the benchmark
 interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent, as forecast by a
separate survey. The London-based central bank has said it will
keep the key rate at a record low until  unemployment , currently
at 7.7 percent, falls below 7 percent.  Sterling has rallied 4.8 percent in the past six months,
the best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as improving economic
data prompted investors to increase bets the central bank would
raise borrowing costs earlier than it predicted. The euro
climbed 3.2 percent and the dollar rose 0.6 percent.  The yield difference between U.K. two-year gilts and
similar-maturity German debt widened one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 31 basis points.  Output Expands  U.K. services output expanded at the fastest pace in 16
years in October, while industrial production increased more in
September than economists forecast, data this week showed.  “The recovery that you’re seeing in the U.K. is very
strong,”  Jens Nordvig , managing director of currency research
at Nomura Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” with Jonathan Ferro and Anna Edwards. “We really like long pound trades,” he
said referring to bets that the currency will appreciate.  “We haven’t expressed them against the euro,” Nordvig
said. “We’ve expressed it against other European currencies.
Swiss and Swedish are the ones we have right now.”  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield fell four basis points to
2.67 percent. The 2.25 percent bond due in September 2023 rose
0.345, or 3.45 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 96.355.  U.K. gilts lost 2.9 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bonds dropped
1.3 percent and U.S. Treasuries declined 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  