-- U.S. Budget, Japan Growth, BOE Forecasts: Week Ahead Nov. 11-16
-- B y   H e a t h e r   L a n g a n ,   G r e g   M i l e s   a n d   J i m   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-11-10T23:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/u-s-budget-japan-growth-boe-forecasts-week-ahead-nov-9-16.html
U.S. congressional budget talks
resume this week as lawmakers weigh reducing mandatory programs
outside of Social Security and Medicare to replace automatic
spending cuts.  Japanese Economy Minister Akira Amari will deliver a speech
on his country’s growth strategy.  Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  will comment at the
publication of the central bank’s quarterly Inflation Report,
which contains updated forecasts.  Negotiators at the annual United Nations climate change
summit will try to agree on a timeline for a global deal on
limiting greenhouse gases by 2015.  Sony’s PlayStation 4 will debut in the U.S.  The Baseball Writers’ Association of America will announce
the winners of the Cy Young awards for best pitcher.  Sotheby’s will sell art from billionaire Steven Cohen’s
collection, possibly bringing as much as $85 million.  News Corp.,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Macy’s
Inc. (M) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Viacom Inc. (VIA)  and  Vivendi SA (VIV)  release
results.  MONDAY, NOV. 11  -- Japan releases September current account  data after the
surplus narrowed in August to the lowest since a deficit in
January. 08:50 in Tokyo (10/10 18:50 EST).  --Japanese Economy Minister Akira Amari will deliver a speech on
the country’s growth strategy as the government and parliament
discuss legislation to implement reforms as the “third arrow,”
after monetary and fiscal policy, of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
push to revitalize the third-biggest economy. 18:30 in Tokyo
(04:30 EST).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Langan in London at 
 hlangan@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Miles in  New York  at 
 gmiles1@bloomberg.net ;
Jim McDonald in Tokyo at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nancy Moran at 
 nmoran@bloomberg.net  