-- U.S. Manufacturing Only Has Jobs for the Skilled Few
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2013-11-07T23:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/u-s-manufacturing-only-has-jobs-for-the-skilled-few.html
Even with the recent strength in the
U.S. manufacturing sector, labor-intensive industries won’t
return to the U.S. as long as the huge labor compensation gaps
persist with Asian and other developing countries. Sure, there
will be niches created when quick delivery, changes in fashion
and other developments require production to be close by.  The majority of what could be rapid growth in U.S.
manufacturing will probably come from capital-intensive,
robotics-intensive production that doesn’t require many
people. Those employed in this area will need considerable
skills. Furthermore, these are the industries that show rapid
productivity growth as new technologies are introduced. But when
productivity growth is robust, output will rise substantially
without much increase in employment.  There are concerns about the lack of engineers and other
professionals who make sophisticated manufacturing possible,
especially as highly skilled members of the postwar generation
reach retirement age. In 2008, the latest available data, 4
percent of bachelor’s degrees in the U.S. were in engineering,
compared with 17 percent in all of  Asia  and 34 percent in
China. That means that more H-1B visas allowing foreign
professionals to work in the U.S. will be awarded. A Senate-passed immigration measure increases the number of these visas
to 110,000 a year, from 65,000 now.  3-D Printing  One of the most exciting new technologies is additive
manufacturing, popularly known as 3-D printing, which uses
layers of materials ranging from wood pulp to cobalt to human
tissue to make three-dimensional objects of almost any shape
from a digital model. Machines have been developed that can
print more than 1,000 materials, and the layers can be mixed to
embed sensors and circuitry such as those used for hearing aids
and motion-sensing gloves.  Another form of additive manufacturing is cold spraying, in
which metallic particles are blasted at high speeds and fuse
into the desired shapes.  Industrial robots can operate 24 hours a day with no coffee
breaks. Their cost compared with human labor has fallen 50
percent since 1990. Thanks to high-technology manufacturing,
 Boston Consulting Group  estimated that 30 percent of Chinese
exports to the U.S. could be economically produced domestically
by 2020.  The U.S. won’t enjoy much of an advantage from lower energy
costs. Crude  oil prices  are reasonably uniform throughout the
world. The U.S. benchmark is West Texas Intermediate; Brent is
the standard elsewhere, but the two move pretty much
together. There have been differences, specifically the recent
discount of WTI because leaping U.S. output was bottled up at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , until pipelines could be reversed to let it
flow to the  Gulf of Mexico . Then the gap closed.  Because of the high cost of liquefying and shipping natural
gas, however, its markets are localized. U.S. gas is about $3.60
per million British thermal units, from $13.58 in 2008. The
commodity fetches about $10 in  Europe  and $15 to $20 in
Asia. This helps U.S. industries such as nitrogen fertilizer
manufacturing and petrochemicals that are heavy users of natural
gas. Still, the advantage isn’t as great as many believe.  For all manufacturing sectors, energy inputs, only one of
which is natural gas, accounted for only 1.9 percent of the
value of output, as of 2011, the latest data available. The
largest manufacturing users are nonmetallic mineral products
(6.8 percent), primary metals (6.2 percent) and paper (6.6
percent). Surprisingly, energy only accounts for 5.6 percent of
utility output. It is more important in some other
nonmanufacturing industries such as farms (8.8 percent) and
transportation by air (25.8 percent), rail (12.6 percent), water
(31.8 percent) and truck (18.2 percent).  Energy Costs  Many factors besides energy costs affect industrial
 production , but within manufacturing, energy-intensive
industries have underperformed in terms of industrial output in
recent years.  Energy usage is equivalent only to about 17 percent of U.S.
gross domestic product as the economy becomes more service-oriented and energy conservation increases. By contrast, in
 China , energy usage equals about 27 percent of GDP.  If U.S. manufacturing is enjoying a renaissance, it is one
that’s focused on technology and capital-intensive
production. The days of new auto plants that employ 5,000 semi-skilled workers are unlikely to return. Indeed, the recent
increase in manufacturing employment has been driven by economic
recovery, and there’s no evidence of a big job pickup thanks to
advanced manufacturing, cheap energy or the return of jobs from
abroad.  (Gary Shilling is a Bloomberg View columnist and president
of A. Gary Shilling & Co. He is the author of “The Age of
Deleveraging: Investment Strategies for a Decade of Slow Growth
and Deflation.” This is the last in a two-part series. Read  Part
1 .)  To contact the writer of this column:
Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 