-- U.S. Third Quarter Advance Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-11-07T13:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/u-s-third-quarter-advance-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product report from the Commerce Department.  GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT:  THIRD QUARTER 2013 (ADVANCE ESTIMATE)  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and
services produced by labor and property located in the United
States -- increased at an annual rate of 2.8 percent in the
third quarter of 2013 (that is, from the second quarter to the
third quarter), according to the “advance” estimate released by
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  In the second quarter, real
GDP increased 2.5 percent.  The Bureau emphasized that the third-quarter advance
estimate released today is based on source data that are
incomplete or subject to further revision by the source agency.
The “second” estimate for the third quarter, based on more
complete data, will be released on December 5, 2013.  The increase in real GDP in the third quarter primarily
reflected positive contributions from personal consumption
expenditures (PCE), private inventory investment, exports,
residential fixed investment, nonresidential fixed investment,
and state and local  government spending  that were partly offset
by a negative contribution from federal government spending.
Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP,
increased.  The acceleration in real GDP growth in the third quarter
primarily reflected a deceleration in imports and accelerations
in private inventory investment and in state and local
government spending that were partly offset by decelerations in
exports, in nonresidential fixed investment, and in PCE.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 1.8 percent in
the third quarter, compared with an increase of 0.2 percent in
the second. Excluding food and energy prices, the price index
for gross domestic purchases increased 1.5 percent in the third
quarter, compared with an increase of 0.8 percent in the second.  ___________ FOOTNOTE.  Quarterly estimates are expressed at
seasonally adjusted annual rates, unless otherwise specified.
Quarter-to-quarter dollar changes are differences between these
published estimates.  Percent changes are calculated from
unrounded data and are annualized.  “Real” estimates are in
chained (2009) dollars.  Price indexes are chain-type measures.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 1.5
percent in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 1.8
percent in the second.  Durable goods increased 7.8 percent,
compared with an increase of 6.2 percent.  Nondurable goods
increased 2.7 percent, compared with an increase of 1.6 percent.
Services increased 0.1 percent, compared with an increase of 1.2
percent.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 1.6 percent
in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 4.7 percent
in the second.  Nonresidential structures increased 12.3 percent,
compared with an increase of 17.6 percent.  Equipment decreased
3.7 percent, in contrast to an increase of 3.3 percent.
Intellectual property products increased 2.2 percent, in
contrast to a decrease of 1.5 percent.  Real residential fixed
investment increased 14.6 percent, compared with an increase of
14.2 percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 4.5 percent
in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 8.0 percent
in the second.  Real imports of goods and services increased 1.9
percent, compared with an increase of 6.9 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross
investment decreased 1.7 percent in the third quarter, compared
with a decrease of 1.6 percent in the second.  National defense
decreased 0.7 percent, compared with a decrease of 0.6 percent.
Nondefense decreased 3.3 percent, compared with a decrease of
3.1 percent.  Real state and local government consumption
expenditures and gross investment increased 1.5 percent,
compared with an increase of 0.4 percent.  The change in real private inventories added 0.83
percentage point to the third-quarter change in real GDP after
adding 0.41 percentage point to the second-quarter change.
Private businesses increased inventories $86.0 billion in the
third quarter, following increases of $56.6 billion in the
second quarter and $42.2 billion in the first.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in
private inventories -- increased 2.0 percent in the third
quarter, compared with an increase of 2.1 percent in the second.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased
2.5 percent in the third quarter, the same increase as in the
second.  Disposition of personal income  Current-dollar personal income increased $132.7 billion
(3.8 percent) in the third quarter, compared with an increase of
$139.1 billion (4.1 percent) in the second.  The deceleration in
personal income primarily reflected decelerations in personal
dividend income and in wages and salaries that were partly
offset by an acceleration in government social benefits to
persons and an upturn in farm proprietors・income.  Personal current taxes decreased $5.3 billion in the third
quarter, in contrast to an increase of $35.8 billion in the
second.  Disposable personal income increased $138.1 billion (4.5
percent) in the third quarter, compared with an increase of
$103.2 billion (3.4 percent) in the second.  Real disposable
personal income increased 2.5 percent, compared with an increase
of 3.5 percent.  Personal outlays increased $109.0 billion (3.7 percent) in
the third quarter, compared with an increase of $42.1 billion
(1.4 percent) in the second.  Personal saving -- disposable
personal income less personal outlays -- was $592.2 billion in
the third quarter, compared with $563.2 billion in the second.  The personal saving rate -- personal saving as a
percentage of disposable personal income -- was 4.7 percent in
the third quarter, compared with 4.5 percent in the second.  For
a comparison of personal saving in BEA’s national income and
product accounts with personal saving in the Federal Reserve
Board’s financial accounts of the  United States  (formerly called
the flow of funds accounts) and data on changes in net worth, go
to www.bea.gov/national/nipaweb/Nipa-Frb.asp.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation’s
output of goods and services -- increased 4.8 percent, or $196.6
billion, in the third quarter to a level of $16,857.6 billion.
In the second quarter, current-dollar GDP increased 3.1 percent,
or $125.7 billion.  ______________  Information on the assumptions used for unavailable source
data is provided in a technical note that is posted with the
news release on BEA’s Web site.  Within a few days after the
release, a detailed “Key Source Data and Assumptions” file is
posted on the Web site.  In the middle of each month, an
analysis of the current quarterly estimate of GDP and related
series is made available on the Web site; click on Survey of
Current Business, “GDP and the Economy.”  For information on
revisions, see “Revisions to GDP, GDI, and Their Major
Components.”  ______________  BEA’s national, international, regional, and industry
estimates; the Survey of Current Business; and BEA news releases
are available without charge on BEA’s Web site at www.bea.gov.
By visiting the site, you can also subscribe to receive free e-mail summaries of BEA releases and announcements.  *          *          *  Next release -- December 5, 2013, at 8:30 A.M. EST for:
  Gross Domestic Product:  Third Quarter 2013 (Second Estimate)  Corporate Profits:  Third Quarter (Preliminary Estimate)  *          *          *  Comparisons of Revisions to GDP  Quarterly estimates of GDP are released on the following
schedule:  the “advance” estimate, based on source data that are
incomplete or subject to further revision by the source agency,
is released near the end of the first month after the end of the
quarter; as more detailed and more comprehensive data become
available, the “second” and “third” estimates are released near
the end of the second and third months, respectively. The
“latest“・estimate reflects the results of both annual and
comprehensive revisions.  Annual revisions, which generally cover the quarters of the
3 most recent calendar years, are usually carried out each
summer and incorporate newly available major annual source data.
Comprehensive (or benchmark) revisions are carried out at about
5-year intervals and incorporate major periodic source data, as
well as improvements in concepts and methods that update the
accounts to portray more accurately the evolving U.S. economy.  The table below shows comparisons of the revisions between
quarterly percent changes of current-dollar and of real GDP for
the different vintages of the estimates.  From the advance
estimate to the second estimate (one month later), the average
revision to real GDP without regard to sign is 0.5 percentage
point, while from the advance estimate to the third estimate
(two months later), it is 0.6 percentage point.  From the
advance estimate to the latest estimate, the average revision
without regard to sign is 1.3 percentage points.  The average
revision (with regard to sign) from the advance estimate to the
latest estimate is 0.3 percentage point, which is larger than
the average revisions from the advance estimate to the second or
to the third estimates.  The larger average revisions to the
latest estimate reflect the fact that comprehensive revisions
include major improvements, such as the incorporation of BEA’s
latest benchmark input-output accounts.  The quarterly estimates
correctly indicate the direction of change of real GDP 97
percent of the time, correctly indicate whether GDP is
accelerating or decelerating 72 percent of the time, and
correctly indicate whether real GDP growth is above, near, or
below trend growth more than four-fifths of the time.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  