-- UN Climate Tension Stoked by Nations’ Lack of Empathy, E3G Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-11-07T16:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/un-climate-tension-stoked-by-nations-lack-of-empathy-e3g-says.html
United Nations climate talks will
fail unless nations put aside their indifference toward other
countries’ emission-reduction efforts, according to Third
Generation Environmentalism Ltd.  While countries are “highly articulate” about their
obstacles to tackling  climate change , they are generally
dismissive of the constraints faced by other countries, the
London-based environmental policy adviser known as E3G said in a
 report  published on its website.  “This lack of empathy underlies much of the tension in
climate change debates,” according to Nick Mabey, Liz Gallagher
and Camilla Born, the report’s authors. “Since 2009, climate
diplomacy has suffered a stagnation, and in some cases
reduction, of capacity in many countries.”  Without agreement on increased efforts to cut  greenhouse
gases , the ability to limit temperature gains to less than 2
degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit) from pre-industrial levels will
disappear, E3G said. UN envoys meet in Warsaw starting Nov. 11
to lay the groundwork for talks on a climate treaty in Paris in
2015, due to come into force five years later.  Negotiators need to stop talking about nations as “unitary
actors” because country positions emerge from complex
negotiations between government departments, industry lobby
groups and politicians, according to the report.  “Unsurprisingly, this means that most countries have major
inconsistencies in their national positions on climate change,”
E3G said. “For example, the European Union has outlawed
domestic coal subsidies, but its  development bank , the  European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development , is providing
concessional loans to build coal power plants in EU-candidate
countries.”  E3G,  founded in 2004 , is funded by groups including the
Shell Foundation, Greenpeace, the European Commission and the
U.K. and German governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  