-- Valartis Chooses VTB Unit to Run $1 Billion Russia Fund
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-11-07T11:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/valartis-chooses-vtb-unit-to-run-1-billion-russia-fund.html
Valartis Group AG (VLRT) , which traces its
roots to Vienna in 1890, selected VTB Capital Investment
Management as sub-adviser for its $1 billion Russian fund.  As part of the agreement, Valartis senior portfolio manager
Tim McCarthy and a team of analysts will move to the VTB unit,
part of Russia’s second-largest lender, according to a  statement 
to clients on its website.  “VTB will become sub-adviser to Valartis International
Ltd., the current investment adviser to the fund, thus keeping
the same investment team together,” Andre Heusser, head of
business development at Valartis, said in the statement.  Valartis Chief Executive Officer Gustav Stenbolt said
earlier this year the Swiss private bank will target wealthy
clients in eastern Europe and  Russia  as it seeks a buyer. The
Baar, Switzerland-based firm wants to sell after
“dissatisfactory growth” and because it won’t reach “critical
size” as it focuses on profitability, the company said in an
Aug. 27 statement.  McCarthy will remain based in Switzerland and travel more
often to Russia, according to the statement. The fund’s
structure, custodian and administrator will remain the same, the
company said. Valartis and VTB intend to transition the fund’s
management “over time” to VTB pending regulatory, board and
shareholder approvals, according to the statement.  McCarthy was hired by VTB to develop new products for
international investors and move the firm into foreign markets,
said Vladimir Potapov, CEO of the group’s fund unit. The fund
manager is seeking to expand its distribution team in 2014 to
 London , Dubai, Hong Kong and New York, he said.  McCarthy and Potapov previously worked together at Troika
Dialog, the investment group acquired by OAO Sberbank. McCarthy,
based in Geneva, lived in Russia for 12 years and co-founded Red
Star Asset Management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  