-- Vale to Start Sudbury Venture Talks With Glencore by Early 2014
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-11-07T16:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/vale-to-start-sudbury-venture-talks-with-glencore-by-early-2014.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s second-biggest
nickel producer, will start formal negotiations with  Glencore
Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  by early next year to combine some operations in
 Canada ’s Sudbury basin as it seeks to reduce costs.  The two companies will seek to jointly operate nickel
mines, mills and smelters in the area about 400​kilometers (250
miles) north of Toronto, Vale Executive Director for Base Metals
Peter Poppinga said today on an earnings conference call. The
accord would exclude refineries, he said.  “We now find there’s a healthy environment for this kind
of discussion with Glencore,” Murilo Ferreira, chief executive
officer of the Rio de Janeiro-based company, said on the same
call. “We always worked with the possibility of having an
unincorporated joint venture in Sudbury.”  Nickel, used in stainless steel production, fell into a
bear market in May and is headed for a third yearly loss as
 China , the biggest buyer of metals, increases output of a
substitute derived from lower-grade ores amid a global
production glut.  Vale and Glencore, the world’s largest commodity trader,
are in the early stages of discussions and are exploring options
including exchanging assets, a person familiar with the talks
said last month.  Poppinga said preliminary talks with Glencore are “going
well,” adding Vale is finalizing the studies on different
alternatives to combine the assets. A spokesman for Baar,
Switzerland-based Glencore declined to comment.  Vale  fell  2.8 percent to 33.47 reais at 2:25 p.m. in Sao
Paulo, declining from its highest close since March 12
yesterday. Shares of Glencore  lost  2.9 percent to 332 pence in
 London . Nickel for delivery in three months declined 1 percent
to $13,972 a ton on the London Metal Exchange.  Vale has six nickel mines, a mill, a smelter and a refinery
in Sudbury, making it one of the largest integrated mining
operations in the world, according to the company’s website. The
assets were bought by Vale in 2006 after the company won a $18.2
billion takeover battle for Inco Ltd, with Ferreira leading the
acquisition at the time as the company’s head of base metals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  