-- Venezuela Inflation Hits 16-Year High as Shortages Rise
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-11-07T22:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/venezuela-inflation-hits-16-year-high-as-shortages-rise.html
Venezuela ’s annual inflation rate
rose more than expected to 54.3 percent last month, the fastest
pace in as many as 16 years, as shoppers scrambled for scarce
goods ahead of Christmas festivities.  October inflation compares with an annualized 49.4 percent
the month earlier and the 52 percent median estimate of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Prices rose 5.1 percent in the
month, the central bank said today.  Currency controls have crimped imports in a country that
gets about 70 percent of its goods from abroad, pushing up the
cost of products that make it into the country. Price increases
in the capital, Caracas, are running at the fastest pace since
1997, two years before former President  Hugo Chavez  came to
power.  “This is the first year where the scarcity rate has
persistently remained around 20 percent,” Tamara Herrera, the
chief economist at Caracas-based financial research firm
Sintesis Financiera, said today in a telephone interview. “It
speaks to the profound problems that surround the supply of
foreign currency, the domestic production of goods and
distortions of prices.”  Christmas Imports  To combat shortages, President Nicolas Maduro started
weekly currency auctions last month, giving companies a chance
to buy almost $400 million to import bicycles, whiskey, toys,
wrapping paper and festive food.  “All the dollars that our fatherland needs until December
31 are guaranteed,” Maduro said on state television Oct. 10.
“We are going to have a happy Christmas.”  Venezuela will spend $2.5 billion to buy 400 tons of food
through March 2014 to fight shortages, oil minister and economy
vice president  Rafael Ramirez  said today in Maracaibo.  Venezuela’s scarcity index, which measures the amount of
goods out of stock at any given time, reached 22.4 percent in
October, the highest level since January 2008, the central bank
said. Food prices rose 5.6 percent in October, housing services
were up 5.1 percent, restaurants and hotels prices increased 6.2
percent, and alcohol and tobacco gained 8.6 percent.  Currency Controls  Maduro said yesterday that the country would increase
currency and price regulations with the creation of an agency to
manage foreign exchange and imports, attributing rising
inflation and a decline in the bolivar on the black market to an
“economic war” being waged by political opponents.  Venezuela, which devalued the bolivar by 32 percent in
February to 6.3 per dollar, has been unable to arrest the
decline of the bolivar on the black market, where companies and
individuals unable to access the official rate pay  around  59
bolivars per dollar.  The country has no plans for a new devaluation and will not
remove currency controls, Ramirez said today. Currency auctions
on an alternative system known as Sicad that sells dollars at an
undisclosed  exchange rate  will continue in 2014, he said.  “If the government has success with its import and price
control plans, it’s possible that inflation could slow down in
the next couple of months,” Herrera said. “It will be
difficult to sustain, though, as the measures will not normalize
the economy.”  ‘Economic War’  Maduro, who was elected in April after Chavez’s death in
March, said yesterday that 2013 has been a “complex and
difficult year.” The “fictitious” black market dollar is used
to “perturb” the economy as part of the economic war and
“psychological disturbance,” he said.  The country’s economic institutions have been “exhausted”
and cannot help to construct socialism, he said, adding that the
country would soon start a nationwide operation against price
speculation and hoarding, using part of the armed forces. He
said the government would set “fair” maximum prices on all
products.  “If I have to confiscate full warehouses to bring products
to the people and sell them at fair prices, I’ll do it,” Maduro
 said today on state television.  The yield on the Venezuelan government’s benchmark 9.25
percent dollar bonds due in 2027 rose 58 basis points, or 0.58
percentage point, to 12.8 percent today in  New York , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 3.12 cents to
77.00 cents, the biggest decline on a closing basis since Oct.
2.  “The measures announced yesterday are not going to resolve
scarcity,” Luis Vicente Leon, president of Caracas-based
polling firm Datanalisis, said today in interview. “The longer
you wait to take decisions, the cost of ending the economic
crisis in the first quarter next year become greater.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  