-- Veolia Jumps as Waste-Unit Slump Eases, Bolstering Profit
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-11-07T09:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/veolia-nine-month-profit-rises-as-waste-handling-decline-slows.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) ,  Europe ’s
biggest water company, rose the most in 11 weeks in Paris
trading after profit jumped.  Veolia climbed as much as 8 percent, the biggest gain since
Aug. 21, and was up 6.1 percent at 12.94 euros as of 10:26 a.m.
local time. Trading volumes already exceeded the three-month
daily average.  The utility is reaping the benefits of restructuring its
operations to reduce its global reach, curb debt and raise
profitability. The shares have rallied this year after tumbling
58 percent over the previous two years as industrial production
slumped in Europe, eroding demand for waste handling.  Adjusted operating income rose 20 percent at constant
exchange rates to 620.8 million euros ($840 million) in the
first nine months of 2013 from a year earlier, Veolia said today
in a statement. The utility kept its financial targets and said
Philippe Capron will be the new chief financial officer.  The results “highlight the company’s capacity to manage
its restructuring process despite an unfavorable macro trend,”
Natixis, which recommends  buying  the shares, said in a note. The
company’s businesses “are improving gradually, also fueled by
the cost-reduction plan.”  Net financial  debt  fell to 9.6 billion euros at the end of
September from 10 billion euros at the end of June, and will be
8 billion euros to 9 billion euros by the end of 2013, according
to Veolia. The utility sold 431 million euros of assets in the
nine-month period and cut 109 million euros of costs.  Waste Management  Smaller competitor  Suez Environnement (SEV)  has also suffered a
decline in waste handling amid economic weakness in Europe. The
Paris-based utilities compete to provide municipal and
industrial waste and water services. They also manage large
treatment installations such as desalination plants.  Veolia’s waste volumes shrank 0.7 percent in the nine
months, compared with a 1.1 percent decline in the first half,
the company said today. Growth came from the Asia Pacific
region, the U.K. and the U.S., while  Germany  remained “strongly
down,” Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot said on a call.  “We maintain our cautious stand in the short term,”
Bryan, Garnier & Co. said in a note. Estimates for full-year
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization are
“extremely optimistic,” even with the cost-cutting measures.  Veolia plans to increase reliance on industrial contracts
and focus on “high-growth” economies such as  China . Since the
start of the year it has unveiled plans to expand in nuclear
dismantling, hazardous-waste clean-up and shale-drilling water
treatment.  “Veolia is pursuing its trajectory toward profitable
growth,” Frerot said today. The company will pay a dividend of
70 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  