-- Vivendi Loses Finance Chief to Veolia as Asset Cuts Near End
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-11-07T08:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/vivendi-loses-finance-chief-to-veolia-as-asset-sales-near-end.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  Chief Financial Officer
Philippe Capron will move to  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , leaving
the French conglomerate as it nears the end of asset sales and
reorganization to focus on media.  Capron , who helped see Vivendi through a string of
acquisitions and divestments over six years, will take the same
position at Veolia in January, Europe’s largest water company
said today. Veolia Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot is
seeking to sell assets and cut debt to make the water company
less reliant on municipal contracts.  The 55-year-old joined Vivendi in 2007 when  Jean-Bernard
Levy  was CEO. He worked with Levy in acquiring video-game maker
Activision Blizzard Inc. and Brazilian Internet provider GVT,
and helped in negotiations to buy Vodafone Group Plc’s stake in
SFR to gain full control of the French wireless carrier.  Vivendi has since reconsidered its expansion into
telecommunications and taken steps to dispose of those assets.
Levy was ousted in June 2012 on differences with the board over
strategic directions.  The change of CFO comes as Vivendi studies whether to spin
off SFR as it assembles what remains into an international media
group. Vivendi plans to decide by early next year how to
allocate its cash from the asset sales, as well as what to do
with SFR. It has yet to name who will lead the new media group.  Maroc Sale  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. this week reached a final
agreement to acquire Vivendi’s stake in Maroc Telecom SA for
about 4.2 billion euros ($5.7 billion) in the  Middle East ’s
largest takeover of a phone carrier. The sale comes a few months
after Vivendi divested a stake in video-game maker Activision
and weeks after it resolved a legal battle with Lagardere SA
over  Canal Plus , giving Vivendi cash to help repay debt and
tightening its focus on media.  Vivendi also owns record label  Universal Music Group .  The shares rose 0.1 percent to 18.75 euros at 9:52 a.m. in
Paris. Veolia climbed 7.2 percent to 13.07 euros after reporting
a 20 percent increase in nine-month profit and said the decline
in waste handing volumes has slowed.  Capron received 1.03 million euros in total compensation
from Vivendi for 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. He
will replace Pierre-Francois Riolacci at Veolia, who is joining
 Air France-KLM .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  