-- Wal-Mart Cancels Low-Priced Orders Made in Online Pricing Snafu
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-11-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/wal-mart-cancels-online-orders-made-during-errant-pricing-snafu.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is telling
online shoppers who bought erroneously low-priced merchandise
yesterday that their orders are being canceled.  “Given the wide discrepancy in pricing, we are notifying
customers who ordered these items that their orders have been
canceled and that they’ll be refunded in full,” Ravi Jariwala,
a spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Wal-Mart
will send customers $10 e-gift cards within five days for future
purchases, he said, declining to say how many orders were
canceled.  Pricing issues on Wal-Mart’s website yesterday morning had
stemmed from technical errors caused internally, Jariwalasaid.  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer was selling
steeply discounted merchandise online such as kayaks for about
$11 and computer monitors for about $9. The company’s Internet
store was intermittently unavailable throughout yesterday as
the issues were fixed, possibly resulting in lost sales.  Some items including kayaks, monitors, televisions and gym
equipment were heavily discounted while other items were priced
up, said Christian Antonio, a Pittsburgh-area blogger who wrote
about the pricing abnormalities. A can of Lysol was priced at
more than $100 and Kool-Aid packets were selling for more than
$70, Antonio said in an e-mail.  Exercise Equipment  The price issues affected many departments, Antonio said.
Children’s cribs were offered for $28 and highchairs for $7, he
said. Exercise equipment such as elliptical machines and
treadmills that normally sell for hundreds of dollars were
offered for $33 and $21, he said.  On the “Terms of Use” page of its website, Wal-Mart says
it “cannot confirm the price of an item until after your order
is placed” and acknowledges that “pricing errors may occur.”  “Walmart reserves the right to cancel any orders
containing pricing errors, with no further obligations to you,
even after your receipt of an order confirmation or shipping
notice from Walmart,” the website’s terms say.  Some shoppers, anticipating that their purchases might not
be fulfilled, opted for “Site to Store,” which lets them pick
up online orders at a store. They posted pictures yesterday of
their early-morning receipts alongside their discounted
merchandise.  The errant prices were available for at least six hours
yesterday morning, Antonio said. Sales were uninterrupted other
than a prompt instructing shoppers to pay using PayPal accounts
rather than credit cards, he said.  Computer Monitors  The pricing issue alienated Charles Allen Jr., a shopper in
Midwest City,  Oklahoma . Earlier yesterday, Allen had purchased
six computer monitors priced at $8.85 each for his business,
which conducts research for legal firms, he said by e-mail. Wal-Mart canceled that order before it shipped, he said.  “We have reviewed your order and this was cancelled due to
a price error,” according to a Wal-Mart e-mail Allen received
from the company’s customer service department, that he provided
to  Bloomberg News . The e-mail said, “prices are subject to
change without notice.”  Allen was turned off by the experience: “Most likely have
bought my last TV from Walmart,” he said in the e-mail.  Two years ago,  Target Corp. (TGT) ’s site crashed a handful of
times during peak shopping hours after the company took  control
of its online operations from Amazon.com Inc. Steve Eastman,
president of Target.com, subsequently left the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  