-- Warren Says U.S. Political System ‘Rigged’ by Special Interests
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-11-07T14:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/warren-says-u-s-political-system-rigged-by-special-interests.html
U.S. Senator  Elizabeth Warren  said
the political system is still “rigged” by lobbyists and
special interests who work to keep the public “in the dark.”  “I’ve been in the Senate for nearly a year and believe as
strongly as ever that the system is rigged for powerful
interests and against working families,” Warren said today in
remarks prepared for speech at a National Consumer Law Center
conference in  Washington .  Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, said lobbyists have
worked to undercut gun control measures and the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, which she helped create. Warren, a
critic of  Wall Street , rose to prominence by highlighting
“tricks and traps” of credit-card disclosures and creating a
consumer bureau as part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  Warren said despite progress by the consumer bureau and
confirmation of its director after a two-year delay, lobbyists
for the financial industry continue to fight it and consumer
groups shouldn’t let down their guard.  “We all know that the fight isn’t over and that the
lobbyists are still working to undercut the agency’s work,”
Warren said. “And we know the progress we’ve made didn’t happen
because reform falls out of the sky. It didn’t happen because
the industry learned its lesson and called for a tough new
watchdog.”  She compared the CFPB to government agencies that test the
safety of physical products like cribs and paint, and said the
bureau’s work on the safety of financial products will become
just as valued by the public.  “You tell me: When was the last time you heard someone
call for regulators to go easier on companies that want to use
lead paint on our children’s toys or leave the safety switches
off toasters?” Warren asked. “The CFPB was designed from the
very beginning to cut out tricks and traps in consumer finance
and add transparency to the marketplace.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  