-- Wintershall Targets Mideast Growth After U.A.E., Qatar Gas Deals
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-11-07T11:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/wintershall-targets-mideast-growth-after-u-a-e-qatar-gas-deals.html
Wintershall AG, the German energy
company owned by chemical maker  BASF SE (BAS) , aims to expand in the
 Middle East  and North Africa after winning deals to develop
natural gas in the  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar.  Wintershall, with partner  OMV AG (OMV)  of Austria, is drilling at
the Shuweihat sour gas and condensate field in  Abu Dhabi  to
appraise it for development, said Klaus Langemann, Wintershall’s
vice president for the Middle East. The company hopes its
partnership will extend to other countries in the region and
with other Abu Dhabi-state-linked partners, he said.  “Our approach is long-term by implementing sustainable
business activities with Abu Dhabi both in country and
internationally,” Langemann said in an interview at his Abu
Dhabi office Nov. 4.  The partners have exclusive rights to decide whether to go
ahead with development of the deposit after completing the
three-year appraisal period, Langemann said. Wintershall and OMV
won the appraisal contract in June 2012 and will drill at least
three wells in the bloc, he said.  In Qatar, the company made a gas discovery at the Al Radeef
field and will take about a year to complete a field development
plan before submitting it for approval to national authorities,
he said.  The Qatari discovery was the emirate’s first gas find in 42
years, since uncovering the world’s biggest gas field, the
country’s energy minister said in March. Qatar’s North Field,
shared with neighboring  Iran , was discovered in 1971 and
provides the emirate with 900 trillion cubic feet in gas
reserves. State-run Qatar Petroleum, Wintershall and  Mitsui & Co (8031) 
plan to develop the area called  block 4N  off the Persian Gulf
state’s northern coast.  The Abu Dhabi field contains sour gas, which has high
content of lethal hydrogen sulfide. The hydrogen sulfide must be
separated from the gas and can be processed into solid sulfur.
BASF is a potential buyer of the sulfur for use in chemical
projects, Langemann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  