-- Woolworths Plans to Close Nigeria Stores on High Costs
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-11-07T11:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/woolworths-to-close-nigerian-stores-on-high-rental-duty-costs.html
South African food-and-clothing
retailer  Woolworths Holdings Ltd. (WHL)  plans to close its three
stores in  Nigeria  because of high rental costs, duties and
difficulties with its supply chain.  “When an investment no longer generates viable returns,
difficult decisions have to be made to contain costs,” Chief
Executive Officer Ian Moir said in an e-mailed statement. “The
Woolworths clothing and general-merchandise business in Nigeria
has not been successful, despite several attempts to improve
performance.”  The decision doesn’t signal a change in the retailer’s
African strategy, Moir said. Woolworths, which has 59 stores in
11 African countries outside its home market, will continue to
expand on the continent, he said. Woolworths opened its first
two Nigerian stores in Lagos in March last year, followed by a
store in Enugu in October 2012, as South African retailers
battled increased competition and shrinking domestic consumer
disposable incomes.  Woolworths becomes the latest retailer to acknowledge
struggles to expand in Africa’s most populous country.  Truworths
International Ltd., (TRU)  South Africa’s largest listed clothing
retailer, has no plans to expand beyond its four Nigeria stores,
Chief Executive Officer Michael Mark said in an interview at the
company’s annual general meeting in Cape Town today.   Massmart
Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , the South African food and goods wholesaler owned
by Wal-Mart Stores Inc., has said it faces electricity shortages
there.  “Nigeria is particularly difficult, but retailers such as
 Mr Price (MPC)  that have lower price points and are cash based are
likely to be more appealing,” Roger Tejwani, a retail analyst
at NOAH Capital Markets, who has a sell recommendation on
Truworths, said by phone from Cape Town.  Truworths’ Mark said that while its Nigeria stores are
loss-making, two of its outlets there have three-year leases and
the company will see out the contracts. Truworths expansion in
the rest of  Africa  is “on balance” profitable, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  