-- World Food Prices Advance for First Time in Six Months on Sugar
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-11-07T10:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/world-food-prices-advance-for-first-time-in-six-months-on-sugar.html
World food prices rose last month for
the first time since April as sugar jumped amid harvest delays
and a warehouse fire in Brazil that destroyed some supplies, the
 United Nations  said.  An  index  of 55 food items climbed 1.3 percent to 205.8 in
October from the previous month, the UN’s Rome-based Food &
Agriculture Organization said in an online report today. An FAO
gauge of sugar prices advanced 7.4 percent to 264.8, a third
straight gain.  Raw-sugar futures touched a one-year high on Oct. 18 on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York  after rain delayed crops in Brazil, the
world’s top producer and exporter, and a fire at the port of
Santos ruined 180,000 metric tons of sweetener. Prices have
since retreated 11 percent on an outlook for a fourth annual
world surplus.  “Sugar prices were particularly volatile during the month
of October,” the FAO said. “The increase in October was mainly
attributable to harvest delays due to unfavorable weather
conditions in the center-south region of  Brazil . Also a fire
that destroyed a major sugar warehouse at the Santos port in
Brazil exacerbated the price surge.”  Global food prices are still down 5.3 percent from a year
earlier and below a record 240.2 in February 2011, as world
production of grains and oilseed rebounded following droughts
last year in the U.S. and areas of the former  Soviet Union  and
eastern Europe.  Black Sea  An FAO grain-price index rose 1.1 percent in October to
197.1, the first increase in five months. Wheat climbed amid
“firm import demand” and declining crop prospects in  Argentina 
and the  Black Sea  region, the UN agency said. Argentina, South
America’s biggest wheat exporter, was affected by drought and
frost, while Russia and Ukraine experienced planting delays for
winter crops amid excess rain. Rice prices also rose in October
while corn costs declined, the FAO said.  The FAO’s index of vegetable oils increased 2 percent to
188 in October, as a gain in palm-oil costs made up for
declining soybean-oil values. Meat prices were little changed
while dairy costs increased 0.4 percent, spurred by rising
demand for whole-milk powder in  China . Dairy prices are 25
percent higher than in October 2012, the FAO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  