-- WTI Fluctuates After Gaining on Increased U.S. Gasoline Demand
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2013-11-07T07:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/wti-crude-fluctuates-after-rising-on-u-s-gasoline-demand-signs.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
fluctuated after rising the most in five weeks as the U.S.
consumed gasoline at the fastest rate since July.  Futures were little changed in  New York  after climbing 1.5
percent yesterday. Demand for  motor fuel  expanded 2.6 percent
last week, draining 3.76 million barrels from gasoline
inventories, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. The stockpile decline was more than nine times
the median estimate of analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “We have seen from the last couple of reports that the
gasoline drawdown is still quite robust,” said  David Lennox , a
resource analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney. “There appears to
be enough demand being generated in the U.S. to at least take
care of some domestic supply coming into the market. If that’s
the case, the price will remain relatively robust.”  WTI for December delivery was at $94.85 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , up 5
cents at 3:55 p.m. Singapore time. The contract advanced $1.43
to $94.80 yesterday, the biggest increase since Oct. 2. The
volume of all futures traded was about 33 percent less than the
100-day average. Prices have gained 3.3 percent this year.  Brent for December settlement slid 26 cents to $104.98 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $10.11 to WTI. The
spread was $10.44 yesterday, the narrowest since Oct. 25.  Fuel Demand  U.S. gasoline  stockpiles  shrank for a fourth week to 210
million barrels in the seven days ended Nov. 1, the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical unit, said in a report
yesterday. That’s the lowest level since November last year.
Demand rose to 9.29 million barrels a day, the most since July.  The U.S., the world’s largest oil consumer, will account
for about 21 percent of global oil demand this year, compared
with 11 percent for  China , forecasts from the International
Energy Agency show.  Distillate  inventories , including diesel and heating oil,
fell by 4.9 million barrels to 117.8 million, according to the
EIA. A median drop of 1.5 million was estimated by analysts in
the Bloomberg survey.  Crude inventories expanded for a seventh week, the longest
stretch of gains since March, the report shows. Supplies climbed
by 1.58 million barrels to 385.4 million, the highest since June
21. A gain of 2.1 million was projected.  WTI advanced yesterday after a technical indicator signaled
losses in the past week were excessive. The 14-day relative
strength index was below 30 for three days through Nov. 5,
signaling crude was oversold, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Today’s reading is at about 34.  U.S. Shale  Oil price declines the past week reflects “growing pains”
as the market adjusts globally to an increase in U.S. shale
production, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “This sharp decline in global oil prices is not the start
of a significant shift in the global oil balance,”  Jeffrey Currie , the bank’s head of commodities research in New York,
said in an e-mailed report. “This adjustment process is likely
masking a very gentle tightening in the global balance that we
still believe will become apparent as refineries come out of
maintenance, particularly should the return of Libyan oil
production continue to prove elusive.”  Elsewhere, the alleged fixing of oil prices is unlikely to
sway traders from using  Brent crude  as a benchmark for
transactions in the $5.7 trillion commodity market, according to
analysts and brokers from  London  to  Tokyo .  Four longtime traders claimed in a lawsuit that some of the
world’s biggest oil companies conspired with energy traders to
manipulate the closely watched spot prices for Brent for more
than a decade. The case is one of at least seven U.S. lawsuits
alleging price fixing in the London-based Brent market, and
comes as global regulators scrutinize financial measures after
fining banks about $2.5 billion for distorting other benchmarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  