-- Wyndham Data Suit Will Proceed as Judge Weighs Dismissal
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-11-15T21:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/wyndham-data-suit-will-proceed-as-judge-weighs-dismissal.html
(Corrects attorney’s comments in ninth paragraph of story
published Nov. 7.)  Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN) , the hotel
franchiser, must exchange pretrial evidence with the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission, which sued the company over computer
security lapses after hackers stole data on more than 619,000
consumer payment card numbers, a judge ruled.  The company asked U.S. District Judge Esther Salas to hold
the case in abeyance while she weighs the company’s motion to
dismiss it on grounds that the FTC lacks authority to regulate
data security. Salas refused to grant a stay in federal court in
 Newark , New Jersey, where she heard arguments today.  “There is a need to move this case forward,” Salas said
at the end of a hearing spanning more than five hours. “I am
going to do my best to get an opinion issued rather quickly.”  Wyndham, the franchiser of  Days Inn  hotels and  Super 8 
motels, is the first to challenge the agency’s authority to
regulate data security as an “unfair” act or practice under
the Federal Trade Commission Act. The case could affect the U.S.
government’s ability to pressure private companies to maintain
proper data security practices, according to privacy scholars.  The FTC first sued Wyndham and three subsidiaries in June
2012, claiming that security lapses permitted hackers to breach
company computers three times between 2008 and 2009.  Fraudulent Charges  In an amended complaint, the agency said the breaches
caused the compromise of more than 619,000 card accounts, export
of many of those account numbers to a domain registered in
 Russia , fraudulent charges on many accounts, and more than $10.6
million in fraud loss.  Wyndham, based in Parsippany, New Jersey, argued that
Congress never gave the FTC authority to regulate data security
practices. The agency has brought 21 data security cases since
2000 alleging unfair practices. Most ended in consent decrees
that were not litigated.  The company’s attorney, Eugene Assaf, told Salas that the
FTC has issued no rules or regulations guiding companies on
protecting data from hackers.  “I have no quarrel, your honor, that data security is a
very important issue,” Assaf said. “My quarrel is that the FTC
actually isn’t the agency that is supposed to be doing it. They
are supposed to be, and I would make the argument as a policy
matter that the resources of this agency historically and
brilliantly have been used to protect consumers from scammers,
thieves and deceivers.”  Assaf also said the agency failed to provide fair notice of
what companies must do to provide data security.  In response, agency attorney Kevin Moriarty said the FTC
has the authority to act to protect consumers, and it has issued
guidelines for businesses on how to protect data.  “Based on the allegations in our complaint, Wyndham wasn’t
even complying with those rudimentary guidelines,” Moriarty
said.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Wyndham Worldwide
Corp., 13-cv-01887, U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey 
(Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark, New Jersey, at  dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  