-- TMX Group Profit Tops Estimates on Lower Operating Costs
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-11-07T11:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/tmx-group-profit-tops-estimates-on-lower-operating-costs.html
TMX Group Ltd. (X) , owner of the Toronto
Stock Exchange, reported third-quarter adjusted profit that beat
analysts’ estimates, as cost reductions overshadowed a drop in
revenue caused by lower trading volume.  TMX’s net income was C$19.2 million ($18.5 million), or 35
cents a share, the Toronto-based company said today in a
statement. Revenue was C$165.3 million, down 7 percent compared
with the second quarter and short of analysts’ projections of
C$175.6 million. The numbers from a year earlier aren’t strictly
comparable because a new company was formed by the sale of the
exchange owner to a group of banks and pension funds.  “While the continued softness in capital markets activity
in  Canada  has impacted our financial performance, TMX Group
continued to advance its operational and strategic goals in the
third quarter,” said Tom Kloet, chief executive officer of TMX,
in a statement.  TMX reported profit of 75 Canadian cents a share excluding
some items, beating the 74-Canadian cent average  estimate  of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Shares of the exchange operator
fell 0.2 percent to C$47.03 in Toronto yesterday.  The  stock  has lost 7.3 percent this year and is lagging the
S&P/TSX Financials Index, which has rallied 16 percent in 2013.
TMX has one buy, four holds and five sell ratings, according to
analyst recommendations compiled by Bloomberg. The average one-year price target is C$46.44, implying a 1.3 percent decrease
from the current level.  Cost Savings  TMX’s operating expenses of C$106.4 million last quarter
fell 7 percent compared with the second quarter. The company has
exceeded its target in finding cost savings from the integration
of businesses, said Michael Ptasznik, chief financial officer
with TMX.  Combined trading volume across the Toronto Stock Exchange,
Venture exchange, Alpha and TMX Select fell 9.6 percent in the
quarter compared with year-ago figures, Carolyn Quick, a
spokeswoman with TMX, said in a phone interview.  The exchange operator was acquired last September by a
group of Canadian banks and pension funds as part of a C$3.73
billion takeover that combined its competitor, Alpha Group, and
the Canadian Depository for Securities Ltd. clearinghouse.  “TMX has seen its market share in cash equity trading
slide significantly since it closed the acquisition of Alpha,
and more competition looms on the horizon,” said Paul Holden,
analyst with  CIBC World Markets , in a report to clients Oct. 28.
“Legitimate competition puts earnings pressure on TMX.”  Growing Competition  Holden estimates TMX’s market share of cash equity trading
dropped to 77 percent in the third quarter, from 83 percent a
year ago.  The Chi-X Canada alternative trading system, owned by a
unit of Chi-X Global Holdings LLC, has boosted its market share
in the country to 18 percent from 10 percent in the past year
since introducing a second venue called CX2, Holden said.  Royal Bank of Canada , the nation’s largest lender, along
with partners including Barclays Plc and Toronto investment firm
 CI Financial Corp. (CIX) , announced in June plans to build a new
exchange through Aequitas Innovations Inc., targeted at
investors concerned with the rise of high-frequency trading.  Operators have been competing for a smaller number of
transactions. Trading volume on Canadian exchanges has averaged
703.4 million shares a day so far in 2013, down 9.5 percent from
2012’s full-year average of 777.3 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Volume Data  The trend has shown signs of reversing in recent months as
Canadian equities have rallied. Trading volumes on the Toronto
Stock Exchange rose 4 percent in October, the third year-over-year increase in the measure in the past four months, according
to data from TMX.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index has jumped 10
percent since June 28, on track for the biggest six-month
advance since 2010 as accelerating economic growth in  China  and
central bank stimulus has boosted prices for oil and mining
companies.  “I’m an incurable optimist, and you have improving
markets,”  Thomas Caldwell , chief executive officer with
Caldwell Securities Ltd, said in a Nov. 4 interview. The firm
manages about C$1 billion, including shares of TMX. “There is
an optimism there and people are starting to see equities as a
safe place. If you don’t see volumes pick up right away this
quarter, they will in the next.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  