-- Yingluck Calls for End to Thai Protests After Scrapping Amnesty
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-11-07T12:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/yingluck-calls-for-end-to-thai-protests-after-scrapping-amnesty.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra called on anti-government groups to end street
protests in Bangkok after agreeing to their demand to scrap a
controversial amnesty bill.  “Today, the amnesty draft bill has ended,” Yingluck said
in a televised speech. “We have withdrawn everything.”  The parliament scrapped six amnesty proposals today, and
the Senate is scheduled to vote on a seventh at 2 p.m. tomorrow.
Senate Speaker Nikom Wairatpanij said most senators will vote
against that bill, and Yingluck has said the government won’t
seek to revive the draft law if it is rejected by the Senate.  Thousands of people joined protests in four different parts
of the Thai capital today to pressure the government to scrap
the legislative push. Critics of the bill argued that an amnesty
wouldn’t heal social divisions if it also exonerated politicians
such as Yingluck’s brother  Thaksin Shinawatra , or leaders who
oversaw a deadly crackdown on demonstrators in 2010.  “I would like to beg the public to end the protests,”
Yingluck said. “We respect the public’s intention and we
respect the public’s voice. We have confirmed that we will
absolutely not reconsider this law.”  The legislative push has hurt stocks and the baht amid
concern it will spark fresh clashes in a country where past
protests by Thaksin’s supporters and opponents have led to an
airport seizure, business center blockages and arson attacks.  The law would have applied to protesters, soldiers and
politicians involved in political clashes since the 2006 coup
that toppled Thaksin, as well as people accused of wrongdoing by
state agencies established after the coup.  The bill angered Thaksin’s opponents, who said the law
would whitewash crimes he committed while in power, while some
of Thaksin’s former supporters criticized the bill for
protecting opposition Democrat party leaders who allowed the
army to use live ammunition to disperse protesters in 2010.  The amnesty law wouldn’t apply to people charged for lese-majeste, which mandates jail sentences as long as 15 years for
defaming, insulting or threatening the king, queen, heir
apparent or regent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  