-- Hyundai Motor Workers Set to Elect Moderate as New Union Leader
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-11-07T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-07/hyundai-motor-workers-set-to-elect-moderate-as-new-union-leader.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  workers will choose
today between two moderate candidates seeking to replace the
incumbent leader of their union, who led strikes that caused
record production losses at  South Korea ’s  largest carmaker .  Vying for the most votes from the 47,000-member union are
its former head Lee Kyung Hoon, 52, and Ha Bu Young, 53.  The winner will replace Moon Yong Moon, whose leadership
over the past two years came to be considered a sign of
resurgent militancy at Korean labor unions amid a shift of
production overseas. Hyundai, which has suffered strikes in 22
of the past 26 years, lost output of more than 215,000 vehicles
equivalent to 4.4 trillion won ($4.2 billion) of sales due to
stoppages during Moon’s term.  “Both candidates hold moderate views and are less militant
than the current union leadership,” said Shin Chung Kwan, an
analyst at KB Investment & Securities Co. “Whoever prevails, it
will be a win-win for the company.”  Hyundai had its longest stretch of uninterrupted production
during Lee’s previous term as the union’s leader, from 2009 to
2011. Ha has campaigned on promises to focus on reforming the
union itself.  The Seoul-based carmaker has lost production of more than
1.3 million vehicles valued at 16 trillion won due to strikes
since the union’s formation in 1987, according to company
estimates. Past worker protests have led to clashes between
police and unionists armed with steel pipes and Molotov
cocktails.  Nationwide, the number of work days lost due to labor
disputes more than doubled last year from two years earlier,
according to data from the Ministry of Employment and Labor.  Working Hours  Lee, who joined Hyundai in 1986, has promised to cut
working hours to 40 a week for all employees by reducing
afternoon shifts by an hour, increase base salaries and bonuses,
eliminate conditions for employees to keep working until the age
of 60, and to have the company distribute 60 shares to each
worker, according to his campaign  website .  Ha joined Hyundai in 1977 and helped form the union in
1987. He has vowed to reform the union by stripping its
leadership of perks, increasing debates, setting up a team to
enhance the union’s public image through better relations with
the media, and open up its books every quarter to improve
transparency, according to his  website .  Ha has also promised to increase base salaries and bonuses
and set the  retirement age  at 60 without conditions.  Profit Rises  Hyundai’s profit for the three months ended Sept. 30
increased for the first time in four quarters, climbing 5.6
percent from a year earlier to 2.14 trillion won. Rising sales
in  emerging markets  including  China , where deliveries jumped 15
percent, helped cushion the fallout from a three-week strike at
Hyundai’s South Korean plants that began Aug. 20.  Hyundai’s South Korean workers approved a wage agreement on
Sept. 9 that raised annual pay by 28.8 million won per worker,
including an average increase in base salaries of 5.1 percent,
according to the union. The pact will expire after one year.  The automaker faces mounting challenges overseas as a
strong won, which has gained about 26 percent against the yen in
the past year, hurts its competitiveness against Japanese rivals
in markets including the U.S.  Hyundai  rose  1.6 percent to 254,000 won in  Seoul  yesterday,
compared with a decline of 0.5 percent for South Korea’s
benchmark Kospi index. The shares have climbed 16 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  