-- Manchester United Beats Liverpool 2-1
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-11T16:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/manchester-united-beats-liverpool-2-1.html
Manchester United  defeated Liverpool
2-1 to move to the top of the standings in English soccer’s
Premier League.  Wayne Rooney scored twice early in the second half at Old
Trafford as United jumped one point ahead of Manchester City,
which visits  Aston Villa  tomorrow.  “It was a great performance,”  Alex Ferguson , United’s
manager, told Sky Sports. “They played some fantastic
football.”  Tension ran high in Manchester after  Luis Suarez , who
scored the Liverpool goal, refused to shake the hand of United
captain Patrice Evra before the game. It was their first meeting
since Suarez was suspended eight games for racially abusing Evra
in an October match.  Suarez walked past Evra during the handshake to goalkeeper
David de Gea. Evra attempted to grab the arm of Suarez and was
shrugged off. United’s Rio Ferdinand then refused to shake
Suarez’s hand.  “I could not believe it,” Ferguson told  Sky Sports .
“He’s a disgrace to Liverpool Football Club and should not be
allowed to play for Liverpool again. The history that club’s got
and he does that, and in a situation like today could have
caused a riot.”  Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish, who earlier this week
said it was time to draw a line under the affair, told Sky he
wasn’t aware of Suarez’s action.  Never Saw  “I wasn’t there, I never saw it,” he said. “That’s
contrary to what I was told. We’ll ask him and take it from
there.”  United’s Paul Scholes had the best chance of the opening
half when he headed straight at goalkeeper Pepe Reina from six
yards out.  Suarez reacted furiously when a fouled wasn’t called
against Ferdinand before halftime and kicked the ball away as
the whistle blew. Sky Sports reported the teams then clashed in
the tunnel, with police and stewards involved.  United took the lead in the 47th minute as Ryan Gigg’s
corner kick found Rooney, who fired in a shot at the far post.
Rooney struck three minutes later when he ran onto  Antonio Valencia ’s pass and scored his 17th league goal of the season.  Suarez scored in the 81st minute after Charlie Adam’s free
kick bounced off Ferdinand. De Gea then tipped Glen Johnson’s
shot over the crossbar in stoppage time to preserve the win.  Tension continued after the final whistle as Evra went near
Suarez to celebrate with United fans. That infuriated Liverpool
players and stewards, police and the match officials had to keep
the teams apart.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 