-- Bakrie Group May Reconsider Bid to Oust Nat Rothschild From Bumi’s Board
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-02-11T08:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/bakrie-group-may-reconsider-bid-to-oust-nat-rothschild-from-bumi.html
Bumi Plc (BUMI) ’s shareholder Bakrie Group
may reconsider a bid to replace the coal producer’s management,
including billionaire  Nathaniel Rothschild , should its
independent directors offer a solution that “makes sense.”  “We are talking to Nat and have been advised that the
independent directors will deliver a solution to us in Jakarta
next week,” Chris Fong, a spokesman to the Bakrie Group, said
in an e-mail from London today. “If it’s a solution that makes
sense then we won’t resist.”  Bumi, listed in London by Rothschild, said on Feb. 3 that
shareholder Borneo Bumi Energi & Metal Ltd. called a meeting to
seek the removal of co-Chairman Rothschild and Chief Executive
Officer Ari Hudaya. Rothschild said last month that relations
with Chairman Indra Bakrie had improved after he previously
criticized Bakrie’s coal company,  PT Bumi Resources. (BUMI)  Bumi owns
29 percent of Jakarta-based Bumi Resources,  Asia ’s biggest
exporter of thermal coal.  Borneo Bumi Energi is seeking to appoint Bakrie and Samin Tan as chairmen of Bumi. Tan is president director of  PT Borneo
Lumbung Energi & Metal , which bought a stake in Bumi last month.
The company also proposed to oust fellow founder  James Campbell ,
a former  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  executive, Chief Financial Officer
Andrew Beckham and directors Badung Tariono and Amir Sambodo.
Tan didn’t return a call to his mobile phone and hasn’t replied
to a text message seeking comments.  100% Focused  “We want a Board that is 100 percent focused on the
asset,” Fong said. “The independent director’s role is very
important and we have the highest respect for them and the UK
governance standards they protect.”  Fong also said circumstances have been changing since the
general meeting was called, and the Bakrie group was unaware
that Rothschild had resigned from another board to focus more on
Bumi.  Bumi shares  have fallen 15 percent since news of the
meeting broke. The shares rose 1.2 percent in  London  yesterday.
Bumi Resources declined 3 percent in Jakarta yesterday.  Bakrie Group and Borneo Lumbung jointly own a 47.6 percent
stake in Bumi Plc, according to  PT Bakrie & Brothers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  