-- Barclays Asks U.S. Court to Enforce $50 Billion Lehman Deal
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-11T17:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/barclays-asks-u-s-court-to-enforce-50-billion-lehman-deal-for-assets.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  asked a U.S. District
judge to enforce a $50 billion deal struck in 2008 to buy
bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s North American assets,
saying it would “jeopardize” future sales of distressed
companies if contracts and promises weren’t honored.  “The Barclays sale was approved because it was better than
any available alternative for all customers” of Lehman’s
bankrupt brokerage, the U.K. bank said in a court filing
yesterday in Manhattan. So-called 363 sales helped the former
General Motors Corp. reorganize in bankruptcy and gave 72,000
Lehman brokerage customers access to $40 billion in assets
frozen in the bankruptcy, the bank has said.  More than three years after the purchase, the U.K. bank
continues to fight the remnants of Lehman’s brokerage over about
$3 billion in assets, which it says belong to Barclays according
to sale contracts and Lehman’s promises.  The brokerage trustee says a key contract was altered to
benefit Barclays, and he needs the assets to pay the remaining
brokerage customers. Both parties appealed a bankruptcy judge’s
rulings on the assets and are preparing for a hearing in U.S.
District Court.  In a court filing yesterday, Barclays pressed its claim to
about $2 billion in margin assets, saying it would never have
taken on Lehman’s trading positions without the margin backing
them. It also claimed $769 million in other assets. Brokerage
trustee James Giddens demanded $1.1 billion in so-called
clearance box assets held to clear trades -- which Barclays,
doubting the assets had any value, agreed to give up in the 2008
credit crisis, he said.  2010 Trial  The dueling between London-based Barclays and trustee
Giddens follows a bankruptcy court trial held in 2010 before
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  Manhattan .  In his decision, the judge told Barclays to return $2
billion in margin assets to Giddens while ordering the trustee
to give the bank at least $1.1 billion, and possibly another
$769 million.  Barclays, the sole bidder for Lehman’s business in the
financial crisis, paid $1.54 billion for the brokerage and real
estate. It also infused $45 billion into the floundering firm
and took securities valued by Lehman at $49.7 billion, according
to Barclays’s account of the deal. Some of the promised assets
were never delivered, it has said.  Barclays emerged from the trial facing far less of a payout
than had been sought by the trustee, who had demanded about $7
billion from the bank.  The Lehman brokerage’s parent had sought an $11 billion
“windfall” it alleged Barclays made on the 2008 purchase.  The Lehman parent got nothing and dropped its appeal of
Peck’s ruling on the windfall claim, saying it wanted to move
ahead with its liquidation plan, which would pay the average
creditor less than 18 cents on the dollar in the next few years.  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
2008, listing assets of $639 billion. The brokerage is being
liquidated separately from its parent, and has been gathering
money to pay  hedge funds  and other remaining customers.  The district court case is Giddens v. Barclays Capital
Inc., 11-cv-06052, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  