-- BHP Chief Kloppers Says He Plans Acquisitions as Mining Deals Accelerate
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2012-02-12T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/bhp-billiton-expects-more-acquisitions-ceo-kloppers-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest miner, plans to make more acquisitions as  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) ’s $39 billion bid for  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  extends
takeovers in the commodities industry.  “I have absolutely no doubt that over time we will do more
transactions,” Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  told
Australian Broadcasting Corp. television yesterday, without
specifying targets. He declined to comment on speculation the
Melbourne-based company may target  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)   BHP Billiton, which last week posted a 5.5 percent decline
in first-half profit, spent $16.9 billion on shale-gas
acquisitions in 2011 after failing in bids to buy  Rio Tinto
Group (RIO)  and Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. Global mining deals
swelled last year to $98 billion, the most since 2007, from $76
billion in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The combination of Glencore and Xstrata will create the
world’s fourth-largest miner, behind BHP, Rio Tinto and  Vale SA. (VALE3)   Kloppers said a decline in iron ore prices probably won’t
affect BHP’s plans to spend $80 billion over the next five years
to boost output of the commodity along with copper and coal.  The company’s projects include the $7.4 billion expansion
of its Pilbara operations and an $822 million investment in a
new mine near Newman, both in  Western Australia .  Iron Ore Prices  Iron ore  for immediate delivery fell 10 cents, or 0.1
percent, last week to $142.70 a metric ton, according to a  price
index  compiled by The Steel Index Ltd. on Feb 10. That compares
with a price of $188 a year earlier.  “Even if that price comes back a little bit more, we are
going to make very good returns on those projects,” Kloppers
said.  While strikes by some workers are unlikely to affect its
expansion program,  BHP Billiton  may cut output at poor
performing mines with higher costs.  Workers at its coking-coal mines will strike for seven days
from Feb. 15 after rejecting the company’s latest offer, the
 Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union  said Feb. 9.  About 3,500 workers at BHP’s mines in Queensland’s Bowen
Basin have staged rolling strikes since June over pay and
conditions, before suspending industrial action in December to
resume contract talks. Labor unions globally are stepping up
demands for higher wages and improved conditions as record
commodity prices swell profit at mining companies.  No Cancellations  “It would take a fairly big event for us to say we are
going to stop, slow down or otherwise cancel a project,”
Kloppers said. “Where an existing operation doesn’t make profit
we are more probably likely to say this is not making profit,
let’s curtail production.”  BHP Billiton’s  net income  fell to $9.9 billion in the six
months ended December from $10.5 billion a year earlier, the
company said Feb. 8.  The decline was its first since 2009 as rising costs and
lower output and prices cut base-metals earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  