-- Canadian Dollar Ends Longest Winning Streak in 3 Months on Greece Turmoil
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-11T05:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/canada-dollar-ends-longest-winning-streak-in-3-months-on-greece.html
The Canadian dollar fell against its
U.S. counterpart, breaking its longest stretch of weekly gains
since October, as turmoil over a second international bailout
for  Greece  damped investor appetite for riskier assets.  The currency weakened the most in a month yesterday even
after Canada recorded its widest trade surplus since 2008. The
Canadian dollar ended four days of trading within a 1-cent range
after European officials demanded Greece enact greater austerity
measures before winning aid needed to avert economic collapse.
Canadian consumer prices held steady last month, data next week
is forecast to show.  “The Canadian dollar will largely move in lockstep with
risk sentiment next week,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst
in Washington at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co. “Any constructive news on Greece will tend to
bode better for the growth-reliant currency.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.8 percent to C$1.0014 per U.S.
dollar yesterday in Toronto, from 99.34 Canadian cents on Feb.
3. That ended four weeks of gains, the longest weekly winning
streak since Oct. 28. The loonie slid yesterday as much as 0.9
percent, the biggest intraday drop since Jan. 5. One Canadian
dollar purchases 99.86 U.S. cents.  The loonie touched 99.26 cents Feb. 9, the strongest level
since Oct. 31, after data showed initial claims for  unemployment
benefits  in the U.S. unexpectedly fell last week. Its weakest
level since Feb. 3 was 99.95 cents until it sank yesterday as
risk appetite faded.  ‘Narrow Range’  “The U.S. and Canadian dollars had settled in a fairly
narrow range on steady signs of improvement for the  U.S.
economy ,” Manimbo said.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback touched a 10-month low yesterday
before paring its decline as the loonie weakened. It reached
7.66 percent, the lowest level since April 11, before rising to
8.08 percent. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to
set option prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the
underlying currency. It averaged 10 percent over the past year.  Canada ’s government bonds fell for a second week, pushing
the yield on the benchmark  10-year note  up four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.05 percent. It touched 2.13 percent
on Feb. 9, the highest level since Dec. 7. The price of the 3.25
percent security due in June 2021 dropped 36 cents to C$110.10.  Debt Auction  Five-year note yields increased five basis to 1.41 percent.
The government will auction on Feb. 15 C$3.5 billion ($3.5
billion) of 1.5 percent securities due in March 2017, according
to a statement on the  Bank of Canada ’s website.  Stocks and commodities tumbled yesterday, erasing five-day
gains. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell for the first week
this year, slipping 0.2 percent. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
 CRB Index (CRY)  of commodities slid 0.7 percent.  Raw materials  account
for about half of Canada’s export revenue.  The loonie stayed lower yesterday as Statistics Canada data
showed a  trade surplus  of C$2.7 billion in December. The figure
beat all 19 forecasts in a Bloomberg economist survey with a
median projection for a surplus of C$800 million.  Canada’s  consumer price index  increased 2.3 percent in
January from a year earlier, the same as the previous month,
economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast before the
nation’s statistics agency reports the data Feb. 17. Inflation
had slowed in December from 2.9 percent the previous month.  The projection suggested the Bank of Canada won’t raise its
benchmark  interest rate  soon from 1 percent, where it’s been
since September 2010. Growth in Canada and the U.S. will be
“more modest” than forecast last year as European leaders
struggle to contain their debt crisis, the Ottawa-based bank
said Jan. 17 in a statement after its last policy meeting.  ‘Back Seat’  “Some of the data is going to take a back seat to
 Europe ,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in  Washington 
at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage.
“We aren’t really expecting anything to sway the stance of the
Bank of Canada.”  The loonie dropped yesterday as Greece’s bailout threatened
to unravel amid discord after Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-
Claude Juncker, head of euro-region finance chiefs, said Greece
must turn into law budget cuts it pledged. A 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) aid package won’t be forthcoming until it does,
he said. Europe’s debt crisis began in Greece in 2009.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won approval from his
cabinet late yesterday for deeper budget cuts, said a government
official who declined to be named. The prospect of more
austerity had spurred protests and a strike. The bill detailing
the measures now goes to Parliament.  The Canadian dollar gained 1.4 percent over the past three
months against nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The  U.S. dollar 
fell 0.4 percent, and the euro dropped 3.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  