-- China Welcome to Boost Investment in Canadian Oil Industry, Oliver Says
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-02-11T10:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/china-welcome-to-expand-investment-in-canada-oil-minister-oliver-says.html
Canadian Natural Resource Minister
Joe Oliver said he’s assuring Chinese officials that the nation
is welcome to expand investments in  Canada ’s oil industry.  Canada doesn’t have sufficient capital to fully develop its
oil reserves, Oliver said in an interview, adding the key factor
in government approval will be whether investments are being
made for “commercial” purposes.  “As their investments get larger, they are watching to see
whether we continue to be welcoming. We’ve told them we are
welcoming,” said Oliver, who is accompanying Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper  on a four-day visit to China. “Our  oil sands  are
the largest energy project in the entire world. We simply don’t
have enough capital in Canada.”  Harper led a delegation of more than 40 business executives
and five ministers to deepen energy links with the Asian country
and reduce Canada’s reliance on the U.S. after President Barack
Obama rejected  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s $7 billion Keystone XL
pipeline to ship Canadian oil to the Gulf Coast. Canada, which
sits on the world’s third-largest oil reserves, sends 99 percent
of its oil exports to the U.S.  While all major foreign investments in Canada require
government approval, there is additional scrutiny for
acquisitions by foreign state-owned companies. Oliver said
Chinese officials raised foreign ownership issues in Canada
during the trip.  “What’s important is that they act as good corporate
citizens, they act on a commercial basis, and they have been,”
said Oliver, who spoke to Bloomberg on a flight from  Guangzhou 
to Chongqing, the last stop of Harper’s tour.  Investment ties between China and Canada have been meager
to date. Canadian direct investment in  China  was C$4.8 billion
($4.8 billion) in 2010, less than 1 percent of Canada’s total,
while the C$14.1 billion in Chinese investment in Canada
represents about 2.5 percent of the total, Statistics Canada
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in China at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  