-- Chinese at North Dakota School Got Unearned Degrees, State Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/chinese-at-north-dakota-school-got-unearned-degrees-state-says.html
Dickinson State University  in North
Dakota granted hundreds of degrees to Chinese transfer students
who didn’t complete the required class work, according to a
state  report .  The school’s international agreements “are seriously
lacking controls and oversight,” according to a review by the
 North Dakota University System  released yesterday. The six
violations of university and state policies could jeopardize the
school’s accreditation and result in sanctions by the U.S.
Education Department and State Department, the report said.  Dickinson’s practices may fuel the growing debate about the
recruiting and exploitation of Chinese students increasingly
sought by U.S. colleges. About 57,000 Chinese undergraduates
attended American colleges in 2010-2011, six times as many as in
2005-2006, according to the Institute of International
Education. At public universities, they pay two or three times
as much in tuition as in-state students.  Dickinson State auditors analyzed the files of 816
international transfer students since 2003, almost all from
China, according to the report. Of the 594 that received a
degree, 584 didn’t complete the required course work. The
school, in Dickinson,  North Dakota , has 15 transfer agreements
with international universities, and “only three articulation
agreements appear to be valid,” according to the report.  Officials at Dickinson State and the North Dakota State
University system didn’t respond to requests for comment.  New President  The review was requested by Dickinson State  President  D.C.
Coston, who was notified of the improprieties by the school’s
office of multicultural affairs. Coston was named president in
January after his predecessor,  Richard McCallum , was fired last
year for offenses including inflating enrollment figures.  Students from China pay $12,978 per year in tuition and
fees at Dickinson, more than double the $5,608 paid by state
residents.  The scope of unqualified students at Dickinson grew worse
after 2008, when the university said several entrance
requirements were waived and “the language ability declined.”
The college also used recruiting agents in  China . While the
agents were employed by recruiting firms, they posed as
Dickinson State employees, according to the report.  Colleges often rely on agents in China, who are paid on
commission and collect fees from the families as well.  A Bloomberg News series last year documented that some
agents use incomplete or false information to lure Chinese
students to American high schools and colleges.  Transcripts Falsified  The  National Association for College Admission Counseling 
in Arlington,  Virginia , announced last July that it would
appoint a commission on international-student recruiting to
examine issues such as whether agents should be paid based on
the number of students they recruit. The commission will hold
its inaugural meeting on March 5 in  Washington .  Other issues included students falsifying their transcripts
using stamps from Chinese universities bought online,
transferring from institutions in China not recognized as
universities and failing to meet the minimum grade-point
average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  