-- Dinosaur Bridge Leads Tokyo Push to Ease Traffic, Boost Economy
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-02-11T06:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/dinosaur-bridge-leads-tokyo-traffic-push.html
Tokyo (JPOPTKYO) ’s “Dinosaur Bridge” opens to
vehicles tomorrow after 10 years of construction as the world’s
largest metropolis tackles traffic jams that slow vehicles to
half of  Japan ’s average highway speed.  The 2,618-meter (1.6-mile) bridge, which was given the
nickname because of its shape, will bring 19 billion yen ($245
million) in economic benefits a year as it almost halves journey
times to container terminals in Tokyo Bay, the government
estimates. Built at an estimated cost of 113 billion yen, it’s
forecast to carry about  32,000 vehicles  a day between eastern
Tokyo and a man-made island, where a new  container terminal  is
being built.  The four-lane bridge will be followed by completion of a
 ring road  and  two  larger loops around Japan’s capital. The
improvements, spurred by the city’s unsuccessful bid to host the
2016 Olympics, are intended to cut traffic jams in and around
the metropolis of more than 35 million people.  “The new bridge will ease congestion in the whole
waterfront area,” said Shinichi Ishii, a senior consultant for
public management and strategy at Nomura Research Institute Inc.
“There is a premium on the value of time in the area, and the
economic impact could be two or three times more than government
estimates.”  Officials including Transportation Minister Takeshi Maeda
and  Tokyo  Vice-Governor Kanji Murayama held a ribbon-cutting
ceremony today before the bridge opens to the public at 10 a.m.
tomorrow, according to Tokyo Metropolitan government’s Bureau of
Port and Harbor.  Population Growth  As migration from the countryside and smaller cities boosts
Tokyo’s population, the city is increasing use of its waterfront
by reclaiming land and building islands in Tokyo Bay. The three
fastest-growing prefectures in Japan from 2005 to 2010 were all
in the greater Tokyo region, led by Tokyo Prefecture, which
increased its population 4.7 percent to 13.2 million, according
to Japan’s  statistics bureau .  Haneda airport, also built on an artificial island in the
bay, opened a fourth runway and started 24-hour operations in
2010.  To expand container trade, Japan has selected the Port of
Tokyo, the nation’s busiest cargo handler, along with nearby
Kawasaki and Yokohama as the main focus for port investment in
the region.  The new container terminal being built on the man-made
island will be able to handle ships capable of carrying 10,000
boxes, according to the port office, which is part of the
national government’s transport ministry.  The Tokyo Gate Bridge, as it is officially known, will
shorten the travel time to the island from the city’s Shin-Kiba
district to  10 minutes  from 19 minutes, according to the Tokyo
Port Office. It will also give truckers a choice of routes to
the city’s main Aomi and Oi container terminals.  Below Cost  The bridge, which weighs about 36,000 tons, was built for
less than the original estimate of about 140 billion yen, thanks
to new techniques and materials, said Koki Hosaka, a civil
engineer at Tokyo Ports. It is built to withstand an earthquake
directly under Tokyo, he said.  The height of the bridge was limited since it is on the
approach to Haneda airport, meaning that a suspension bridge
wasn’t an option, Hosaka said. The construction also needed to
be wide and high enough underneath for ships to pass, he said,
leading to the final design that resembles two dinosaurs facing
off.  Tokyo-based  Kawada Industries Inc. (5931)  spent two years building
the dinosaur-shaped trusses for the bridge, according to
Yoshifumi Kodama, a manager for the project. The company used
three cranes on boats to lay the bridge on the support columns,
he said.  ‘Nerve Wracking’  “It hadn’t been done for a bridge of this type in Japan
for 16 years,” said Kodama. “It was very nerve wracking as we
had to do it in one shot.”  It will be followed by a new Tokyo ring road, set to be
completed by March 2014, and two new larger loop lines that are
under construction.  While roads and bridges can help cut travel time for
truckers, the government could do more to help by extending
operating hours at container terminals, said Toshio Araki, head
of container operations at the Tokyo Trucking Association.  “The problem is with processing at the terminal rather
than the roads,” Araki said. “It’s extremely crowded. The
gates are only open during the day and so trucks have to line up
and wait. It can take anything from a couple of hours to more
than 16 hours.”  The bridge, which has a walkway for pedestrians, is already
helping to spur tourism in the area. Sightseeing boat operator
Zeal Cruise Division has almost sold all its seats this month
for its 80-minute  tours  of the bridge.  “The tours have become popular for families with kids,”
Hirano Takumi, Zeal’s president, said in an interview. “We’re
almost completely booked for the opening month and next month.
We want overseas tourists to come and see Japan’s new mammoth
bridge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  