-- DLF Profit Misses Estimates as Sales Decline, Financing Costs Increase
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-02-11T05:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/dlf-profit-misses-estimates-as-sales-decline-financing-costs-increase.html
DLF Ltd. (DLFU) ,  India ’s biggest developer,
reported third-quarter profit that missed analyst estimates on
lower sales and a jump in financing costs.  Net income  slid 45 percent to 2.58 billion rupees ($52
million) in the three months ended Dec. 31 from 4.66 billion
rupees a year earlier, the company said in a statement
yesterday. That compared with the 3.92 billion rupee median of
25 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 18
percent to 20.34 billion rupees, the New Delhi-based DLF said.  DLF was downgraded in December by Crisil Ltd., the Indian
unit of  Standard & Poor’s , after its liabilities excluding cash
climbed to a record high of 242.7 billion rupees in the three
months ended Sept. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company is committed to its target of raising 60
billion rupees to 70 billion rupees from non-strategic asset
divestment in the next three years to reduce debt, DLF said in
response to the downgrade by Crisil. DLF and its joint venture
partner Hubtown Ltd. completed the sale of a property in
December in the western Indian city of Pune to a unit of
Blackstone Group LP for 8.1 billion rupees.  The company spent 6.19 billion rupees on financing charges
last quarter, 45 percent higher than in the same period in the
previous year, according to yesterday’s statement.  It also said the Income Tax department has levied a demand
for additional tax of 11.37 billion rupees, mostly as a
disallowance of special economic zone profit. The company hasn’t
made any provision for the payment as it is “confident that
additional tax so demanded will not be sustained on completion
of the appellate proceedings,” DLF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  