-- Dutch Authorities Start Probe Into Hacker Attack at KPN
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-02-11T13:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/dutch-authorities-start-probe-into-hacker-attack-at-kpn-1-.html
Dutch authorities began probing a
hacker attack at Royal  KPN NV (KPN)  after the phone company
temporarily blocked e-mail accounts of about 2 million clients
because confidential data of 539 KPN users were put online.  Opta, the Dutch telecommunications regulator, will
investigate whether KPN has done enough to protect the data,
Cynthia Heijne, a spokeswoman for the Hague-based Opta, said by
phone today. “This is standard procedure when such an event
happens.” The public prosecutor has also started a probe,
spokesman Wim de Bruin said by phone.  KPN said Feb. 8 that a hacker broke into the server domain
within the company’s information technology network and informed
government authorities and regulators. The company decided not
to inform the public.  The company in December was put under increased supervision
by Opta because of undisclosed violations, a ruling KPN has
appealed. The competition regulator NMa is investigating KPN and
other telephone companies separately for possible antitrust
violations.  Government systems haven’t been affected by the attack
after the National Cyber Security Center investigated the
incident, Edmond Messchaert, spokesman of the Ministry of
Justice and Safety, said in an interview today.  The government in September said it no longer trusted
safety certificates issued by DigiNotar BV after hackers issued
fraudulent ones, targeting websites from the government and
companies such as Facebook Inc. and Google Inc. The government
had to warn that part of the country’s online traffic was no
longer safe.  KPN has begun giving users access to their e-mail accounts.
“We need additional capacity and that takes a bit of time,”
Maryse Ducheine, a spokeswoman for The Hague-based KPN, said by
phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  