-- Medtronic Seeks Royalties, Interest From NuVasive Over Surgical Patents
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2012-02-11T16:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/medtronic-seeks-royalties-interest-from-nuvasive-over-surgical-patents.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  asked a federal judge
to order NuVasive Inc. to pay royalties on sales of spinal
surgery products that infringed its patents, as well as $19.8
million in interest on a jury verdict last year.  The request, filed yesterday in federal court in  San Diego ,
follows a $101 million verdict won by Medtronic. The Sept. 20
verdict was the 18th-largest jury award in the U.S. in 2011 and
the fourth-largest in a patent-infringement claim, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Anything less would reward NuVasive’s ongoing
infringement and would encourage NuVasive to continue to
infringe rather than to develop its own technology,”
Medtronic’s lawyers said in the filing. NuVasive, in its own
filing, argued that it shouldn’t have to pay any more, and that
if the court does award pre-judgment interest and royalties, the
amounts should be lower than Medtronic seeks.  The trial was over claims by Minneapolis-based Medtronic’s
Warsaw Orthopedic unit that San Diego-based NuVasive infringed
three patents for implants capable of being inserted trans-
laterally between adjacent vertebrae, a plate and screw system
used to stabilize vertebrae in the cervical spine and a tissue
retractor, according to court filings.  After the verdict, NuVasive failed to convince U.S.
District Judge Michael M. Anello that the patents weren’t
infringed and that the jury verdict wasn’t supported by the
evidence.  No Permanent Injunction  In his Jan. 26 ruling, the judge rejected NuVasive’s claim
that one of the patents in dispute was invalid. He also denied
Medtronic’s request for a permanent injunction barring NuVasive
from selling the devices found to infringe its patents.  Anello additionally left intact the jury’s award of
$660,000 in damages to NuVasive for Medtronic’s infringement of
one of its patents.  Medtronic asked in today’s filing for the judge to impose
royalties of at least 36 percent for one infringed patent, 11
percent for a second patent and 7 percent for the third.  NuVasive said the royalties should be no more than 10
percent for the first patent, 3 percent for the second and 2
percent for the third. Pre-judgment interest for Medtronic
should be capped at $1.3 million, and Medtronic should pay
$3,551 in interest for the patent it infringed, NuVasive said in
its filing.  The case is Medtronic Sofamor Danek USA v.  NuVasive Inc. (NUVA) ,
3:08-cv-1512, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 California  (San Diego). 