-- Euro Gains Against Major Currencies Amid Greek Debt Impasse; Yen Declines
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/euro-gains-against-majors-amid-greek-debt-impasse-yen-declines.html
The euro gained against the majority
of its most-traded counterparts as the central bank saw signs of
“stabilization” in the region and investors speculated  Greece 
would convince European leaders to release its aid package.  The euro held on to weekly advances against the dollar and
yen as Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  secured approval
from his Cabinet to submit laws for new budget measures designed
to secure a second rescue package. The yen had the biggest
decline versus the dollar in three months as Japan’s current-
account surplus slid to a 15-year low in 2011. The cost of
living in the U.S. rose 0.3 percent in January after holding
steady in December, data next week is forecast to show.  “There’s been a roadblock but the market still believes a
deal is going to get done,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency
strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York, said on yesterday.
“The rally was all in anticipation of that and, clearly, it’s
not coming this week. So there is some disappointment, but we
are not pricing a disorderly default at this point.”  The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.3197 and gained 1.63
percent to 102.43 versus the yen. The Japanese currency fell
1.32 percent per dollar.  The Greek cabinet approved the 287-page document
unanimously, said a government official, who declined to be
named. The 300-seat Parliament will vote, as soon as today, on
the budget measures. The approval capped a week of tension as
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  officials argued
with Greek government officials over the conditions required to
secure the 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) rescue package.  ‘Very Complacent’  Futures traders decreased bets the euro will fall versus
the dollar, lowering so-called net shorts for a second week. The
difference between wagers that the shared currency will weaken
versus those that it will rise narrowed to 140,593 on Feb. 7,
data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.  “The market is very complacent about the political ill
will that this situation has generated in Greece,” Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online currency trader GFT
Forex in New York, said yesterday. “If the Greek situation is
resolved, then you have core  Europe  continuing to expand at a
surprising rate and tensions in the credit market beginning to
ease.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said Feb. 9 it
would lower the collateral requirements to access the next
three-year loan auction later this month. He also said surveys
confirm “signs of stabilization” in the region.  The ECB maintained policy makers’ main refinancing rate at
1 percent, in line with the estimates of 55 of 57 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Euro Rallies  The so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate for the euro
versus the dollar fell to minus 2.38 percent, from minus 2.18
percent on Feb. 3. A negative rate signals greater demand for
euro puts, the right to sell, relative to calls, the right to
buy the common currency.  The euro has rallied 4.3 percent versus the dollar from the
January low of $1.2624 amid speculation Greek lawmakers would
satisfy demands from the European Commission, ECB and
International Monetary Fund to receive the 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) aid package. It is trading 11 cents above its
lifetime average of $1.2060.  The euro gained 0.1 percent to 1.20959 versus the  Swiss
franc (EURCHF) . It breached the 1.21 mark on Feb. 7 for the first time
since Jan. 25. Swiss central bank interim Chairman Thomas Jordan
said the currency remains “very strong” and policy makers
can’t allow it to appreciate further. The  Swiss National Bank 
imposed a 1.20 cap on the currency on Sept. 19.  ‘Strong-Arm’ Greeks  “In the end, the euro politicians will strong-arm the
Greeks into the austerity measures,” Martin Briggs, senior risk
consultant for AFEX Markets Plc in  London , said on Feb. 9.  The euro strengthened 0.4 percent against nine developed-
nation counterparts over the past week, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 0.3 percent and
the yen fell 1.2 percent.  Japan ’s yen declined versus 14 of 16 most-traded
counterparts as central bank Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the
nation’s economic condition is “severe” because of deflation
and the strong currency. The central bank is implementing
monetary easing measures and will take appropriate steps as
needed, he said in parliament in  Tokyo  on Feb 6.  The nation’s current-account surplus shrank 44 percent in
2011 from the previous year to 9.63 trillion yen ($125 billion),
the lowest since 1996. The  trade surplus  makes the currency
attractive as a haven because it means the nation doesn’t have
to rely on overseas lenders.  Implied Volatility  The yen’s losses were supported as implied volatility of
three-month options for Group of Seven currencies reached a 3½-
year low, according to the JPMorgan  G7 Volatility Index (JPMVXYG7) . A
decrease makes investments in currencies with higher benchmark
lending rates more attractive as the risk in such trades is that
market moves will erase profits compared to near zero  interest
rates  in Japan.  Australia ’s dollar had its first loss in eight weeks versus
the greenback, falling 0.9 percent to $1.0673, as forecasts for
growth and inflation from the  Reserve Bank  were lowered and
retail sales fell. It touched $1.0845 on Feb. 8, the strongest
since Aug. 2 after the  central bank  unexpectedly maintained the
benchmark interest rate at 4.25 percent. It gained 0.4 percent
to 82.84 yen.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, was 0.5 percent higher at 79.004. The gauge is
weighted 57.6 percent to movements in the euro.  The pound weakened 0.4 percent to $1.5755 against the
dollar and 0.7 percent to 83.76 per euro after the  Bank of
England  said it would increase its bond-buying program by less
than some economists forecast.  The Monetary Policy Committee raised the target for bond
purchases by 50 billion pounds ($79.3 billion) to 325 billion
pounds, more than a quarter of current outstanding gilts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  