-- Facebook IPO to Drag Down Secondary-Market Trading This Year, Nyppex Says
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/facebook-ipo-to-drag-down-secondary-market-trading-this-year-nyppex-says.html
Facebook Inc.’s (FB)  initial public
offering and the IPOs of other social-media companies will lead
to a 24 percent decline in secondary transactions in 2012 as
fewer big companies remain private, according to Nyppex LLC.  Deal volume will drop to $7.1 billion this year from $9.3
billion in 2011, the Rye, New York-based broker-dealer and
 research firm  said in a report. That follows last year’s
doubling of the market from $4.6 billion in 2010.  The reversal is “based on expected exits by many of the
largest consumer Web and social-media companies, and a decline
in large private companies with motivated selling
shareholders,” Nyppex said.  Facebook, the world’s most popular social-networking site,
filed to go public on Feb. 1, seeking to raise $5 billion in the
largest Web IPO on record. That follows share sales last year of
professional-networking site LinkedIn Corp., daily-deal site
Groupon Inc. and social-gaming company Zynga Inc.  Those companies each reached valuations of more than $1
billion on the private markets through trading on exchanges like
SecondMarket Inc. and SharesPost Inc. and through transactions
where early employees and equity owners sold to investors like
Digital Sky Technologies and Elevation Partners LP. Primary
deals, by contrast, involve buying newly issued stock directly
from the company.  ‘Risk Management’  Facebook jumped about 73 percent in value on the secondary
market last year to $71.2 billion, according to Nyppex. The
biggest gainer was microblogging service Twitter Inc., which
more than doubled to $8.52 billion. Yelp Inc., the consumer-
review website that filed for an IPO in November, rose 44
percent to $705 million.  Secondary-market investors are typically treated like
company insiders and barred from selling their stock during the
so-called lock-up period, lasting six months after the IPO.  Secondary buyers of a handful of social-media companies,
including LinkedIn, Groupon and  China ’s Renren Inc., generated
an average 70.7 percent return on their investments at the time
of the IPO. Yet, those buyers generated only a 22 percent
average gain after the lock-up period expired, Nyppex said.  The firm’s estimates apply to investors who purchased their
shares by March 31.  “This analysis illustrates the importance of risk
management for shareholders of private consumer Web and social-
media companies that complete initial public offerings under
current market conditions,” Nyppex said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  