-- Five Sun Newspaper Staff Arrested as News Corp. U.K. Bribery Probe Widens
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-02-11T18:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/five-sun-staff-3-officials-arrested-in-news-corp-bribery-probe.html
News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
told staff he would continue to publish his Sun newspaper as he
prepared to visit the U.K. after five more staff were arrested
in a widening probe into alleged bribery of U.K. officials.  Murdoch reaffirmed his “total commitment to continue to
own and publish The Sun,” according to a memo obtained by
Bloomberg News from News International Ltd. Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Mockridge  to staff at the tabloid, the U.K.’s best-
selling daily paper.  Murdoch is likely to visit The Sun newsroom and reiterate
those sentiments on a previously scheduled visit to his U.K.
operations in the second half of the coming week, a person
familiar with his plans said on condition of anonymity.  A police officer, a member of the armed forces and a
Ministry of Defense employee were also detained today as the
investigation widened to include alleged payments by journalists
to public servants as well as police.  The arrests are part of the Operation Elveden bribery probe
and add to about 30 detentions since January in three
investigations related to phone hacking, computer hacking and
bribery. Four current and former employees of The Sun were
arrested on Jan. 29 on bribery allegations in a scandal that
prompted Murdoch to shut his News of the World tabloid in July.  Offices Searched  The five journalists arrested today were Geoff Webster,
deputy editor of The Sun; reporter John Sturgis; picture editor
 John Edwards ; chief reporter John Kay; and chief foreign
correspondent Nick Parker, according to Mockridge’s memo.  Efforts to contact the five men using phone numbers listed
by directory assistance failed. The Sun’s switchboard declined
to release contact details.  News Corp. (NWSA)  has offered legal representation to the
employees, it said in a company statement. Miranda Higham, a
News Corp. spokeswoman, declined to comment beyond the
statement.  Police said in a statement they searched home addresses and
News Corp.’s offices in London as part of today’s operation.  News Corp.’s Management and Standards Committee provided
the information to the Metropolitan Police which led to the
arrests of its staff today, according to the statement.  “News Corporation remains committed to ensuring that
unacceptable news gathering practices by individuals in the past
will not be repeated,” the company said. The committee was
established in July to investigate phone hacking at News of the
World, police payments and other issues.  Probe Widens  The Metropolitan Police said that the men were arrested in
relation to suspected corruption involving public officials who
are not police officers. They are being held in police stations
across  London  and Kent, it said.  A sixth person, a 39-year-old service officer with Surrey
Police, was being questioned in London on suspicion of
corruption, misconduct in a public office and conspiracy in
relation to those offenses. A 39-year-old woman, who is a
Ministry of Defense employee, was being questioned at Wiltshire
Police station on the same charge as the police officer,
alongside a 36-year-old man who is a member of the Armed Forces.  A spokeswoman for the Ministry of Defense declined to
comment.  Operation Elveden was set up last year to investigate
alleged bribes paid to police by the News of the World. The
weekly newspaper was shuttered after revelations that
journalists hacked into the phone of a murdered schoolgirl while
she was still missing.  News of the World  News Corp.’s investigative committee also turned over
information to police that led to the Jan. 29 arrests at The
Sun. The Elveden probe is expanding beyond bribes to police
officers after the company’s investigative committee presented
evidence in a civil lawsuit that a former editor at the Sun and
News of the World had agreed to pay a prison guard to get a
story about a child killer.  The Metropolitan Police said last month when asked about a
wrongful termination case filed by the editor that the Elveden
probe was focused on corrupt payments to police.  News International is facing police probes of phone
hacking, computer hacking and bribery and has agreed to pay
$15.6 million in settlements to victims of phone hacking.  In the phone-hacking investigation, called Operation
Weeting, police have made at least 17 arrests since the probe
started about a year ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  