-- Gunmen Kill Syrian General Day After Aleppo Suicide Bombing Leaves 28 Dead
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-02-11T15:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/gunmen-kill-syrian-general-day-after-aleppo-suicide-bombing-leaves-28-dead.html
Gunmen killed a Syrian general
outside his home in Damascus a day after two  suicide bombers 
attacked a military security branch and police headquarters in
the northern city of Aleppo.  Brigadier General Issa al-Kholi was killed by three gunmen
as part of a “framework of targeting Syrian intellectuals and
the medical and technical cadres,” the official  Syrian Arab
News Service  said today. Al-Kholi was the director of the Hamish
Hospital in Damascus, it said.  The prospect of civil war has been growing as the daily
death toll mounts and President Bashar al-Assad uses tanks and
artillery to try and crush an 11-month rebellion that has left
more than 5,400 people dead since it began in March last year,
according to UN estimates. Syrian forces killed 35 people today,
including 19 in Homs, Al Arabiya television reported, citing the
Syrian Revolution Committee.  “The situation is clearly getting worse,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said in a phone interview.
“What happened in Aleppo is the first sign of moving toward a
breakdown of the regime. It is unlikely that Assad can win this
with force.”  Two car bombers attacked a military security branch and
police headquarters in Aleppo yesterday, killing 28 and injuring
235 military personal, civilians and children, the government
news service said today.  Suicide Bombings  The first bomber struck at 9 a.m. at a law-enforcement
office in the city’s al-Arkoub district, killing 11 and wounding
130, then a second detonated a few minutes later at the military
security branch in New Aleppo, the news service said.  In the Lebanese city of Tripoli, two people were killed in
clashes between supporters of Assad and his opponents,  Al
Arabiya  television reported, without saying where it got the
information. Nineteen people were injured, Al Arabiya said.
Eleven soldiers were killed yesterday in Idlib, the Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-mail today.  Assad’s forces stepped up efforts to crush the uprising
since Russia and China vetoed a United Nations Security Council
resolution on Feb. 4 that aimed to facilitate a political
solution to the conflict. More than 300 people have died during
the siege of the city of Homs since Feb. 3,  Human Rights Watch 
said Feb 9.  Arab League Meeting  Saudi Arabia ’s King Abdullah said yesterday that the
world’s confidence in the UN was “shaken” after the Russian
and Chinese veto. The kingdom has joined other Gulf Arab
countries in isolating the Assad government. The Gulf
Cooperation Council’s six members announced on Feb. 7 that they
were expelling Syrian ambassadors from their capitals.  The  Arab League  meets tomorrow in Cairo to discuss sending
monitors back  Syria  after pulling them out last month. The Arab
League in November imposed sanctions on Syria and sent monitors
to the country in an effort to stop the violence. The 22-member
league later drafted a plan that called for the formation of a
national unity government within two months to pave way for
elections.  The group may seek approval in the UN’s 193-member General
Assembly of its plan for Assad to step aside, according to two
senior UN diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
plans haven’t been made final.  “Because the level of violence is getting worse, it is
drawing more and more attention by the international community
that something needs to be done,” Karasik said.  Russia is seeking to broker talks between the Syrian
government and the opposition, while  China  has suggested further
cooperation at the UN. France is pressing for deepening ties
with Syrian protesters  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at   gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  