-- Romney Regains Momentum With Victory in Maine
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-12T17:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/mitt-romney-wins-maine-republican-caucus-nomination-poll-state-party-says.html
Mitt Romney  won a straw poll
conducted as part of the Maine caucuses, rebounding from three
losses earlier this week in the race for the Republican U.S.
presidential nomination.  The former Massachusetts governor got 39 percent of the
vote, according to the state party. U.S. Representative  Ron Paul 
of  Texas , the only other candidate whose campaign competed
aggressively in Maine, took 36 percent. Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania got 18 percent and former U.S. House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  had 6 percent.  Romney yesterday also won a straw poll sponsored by the
Conservative Political Action Conference and the Washington
Times, receiving 38 percent of the vote. The survey polled 3,408
participants at the 39th annual CPAC gathering in  Washington ,
which drew about 10,000 people.  While the Maine results don’t immediately offer any
convention delegates to Romney, they give him renewed momentum
after losses to Santorum in a non-binding primary in  Missouri 
and caucuses in Minnesota and  Colorado  on Feb. 7.  “The voters of Maine have sent a clear message that it is
past time to send an outsider to the White House, a conservative
with a lifetime of experience in the private sector, who can
uproot Washington’s culture of taxing and spending and borrowing
and endless bureaucracy,” Romney said in an e-mailed statement.  Maine Caucuses  The Maine results are based on votes cast at 84 percent of
municipal caucuses that have been conducted to date; the rest
will be held by March 20. The state’s delegates to the August
Republican convention in Tampa,  Florida , will be allocated in
May.  Romney victories in Florida’s Jan. 31 primary and Nevada’s
Feb. 4 caucuses had made him the front-runner for the
nomination. His losses earlier this week cast that in doubt and
illustrated his failure to spark passion among the anti-abortion
and anti-spending voters who are the  Republican Party ’s core. He
avoided a fourth straight loss by defeating Paul by fewer than
200 votes in Maine.  “It’s almost like we could call it a tie,” Paul told
supporters. He renewed his call for a smaller federal
government, saying, “the government should be out of the
economy.”  Santorum came in second in the CPAC poll with 31 percent,
and Gingrich was third with 15 percent. Paul, who won the
group’s 2010 and 2011 straw polls, received 12 percent. Paul was
the only one of the four remaining Republican presidential
candidates to decline an invitation to speak at this year’s
conference.  ‘Two-Person Race’  Santorum said the victories last week gave his campaign a
“shot in the arm,” and that he’s focused on beating Romney in
contests such as the  Arizona  and Michigan primaries on Feb. 28.  “We can do reasonably well in Arizona and really make this
a two-person race,” Santorum said today on ABC’s “This Week.”  CPAC, hosted by the non-profit American Conservative Union
Foundation, attracts Republicans motivated by cutting taxes and
ending abortion rights, a voting bloc that has questioned
Romney’s commitment to their causes.  The CPAC poll, conducted by Fabrizio, McLaughlin and
Associates, was taken between 9 a.m. Feb. 9 and 1 p.m.
yesterday. Pollster Tony Fabrizio said 44 percent of those
surveyed were students and 97 percent disapproved of President
Barack Obama’s performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  