-- Kenya Military Says It Cuts Off Revenue Sources for Al-Shabaab
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-02-11T11:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/kenya-military-says-it-cuts-off-revenue-sources-for-al-shabaab.html
     Feb. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Kenya ’s military said it cut off key
al-Shabaab revenue sources, curbing their financial firepower
and forcing them to seek assistance from al-Qaeda.  “We have taken key areas that account for 75 percent of
al-Shabaab revenue,” Colonel Cyrus Oguna, a spokesman for the
Kenya Defense Forces, told reporters in Nairobi today.  The military forces that entered Somalia in mid-October
have captured areas including Ras Kamboni, Bulgabo, Tabda,
Girma, Hosingo, Elare and Badhadhe, which were providing the
bulk of financial support for the Islamic militants.  “These areas we have captured have crippled their finances
and this has forced them to seek assistance from al-Qaeda,”
Oguna said. “The Kismayu port remains the current source of
revenue and we intend to take it over soon.”  The Kenya forces together with soldiers from the
Transitional Federal Government of  Somalia  ambushed Elare on
Feb. 7 and killed Mohamed Asmaya, who was believed to be a key
financier of the militants. Four Somali soldiers were killed in
the fighting.  Fourteen soldiers of the Kenya Defense Forces have been
killed, while 24 have been injured and one is missing, Oguna
said.  Information about the fighting cannot be independently
verified and the two sides’ version of events generally differs.
The Horn of African nation also hosts more than 10,000 African
Union troops from Uganda, Burundi and Djibouti working alongside
government troops and Ethiopian soldiers who separately entered
Somalia in pursuit of al-Shabaab in December.  Al-Shabaab has been battling Somalia’s western-backed
government led by President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed for five
years and controls most of the southern and central regions.  Somalia has had no effective central government since the
downfall of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre two decades ago.  The Somalia peace conference will be held on Feb. 23 in
 London , Antony Safari, an official of the country’s Ministry of
 Foreign Affairs , told reporters today Nairobi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at
   jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  