-- Obama Says Failure to Extend Payroll Tax Cut Would Wound Economy
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-02-11T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/obama-says-failure-to-extend-payroll-tax-cut-would-wound-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  said, even
with recent economic gains, Congress would put the recovery at
risk if it fails to extend a payroll tax cut for workers set to
expire at the end of this month.  With negotiators debating how to pay for the extension,
Obama used his weekly radio and Internet  address  to pressure
lawmakers working on a plan that would keep taxes from going up
for 160 million Americans, extend unemployment benefits and
prevent a drop in Medicare reimbursements to doctors.  “Now is not the time for self-inflicted wounds to our
recovery,” Obama said. “Now is the time for common-sense
action. And this tax cut is common-sense.”  Congress in December passed a two-month extension of the
tax cut because it couldn’t agree on how to cover the $100
billion cost through 2012. Since then, the  unemployment rate  has
dropped to a three-year low of 8.3 percent. Lawmakers aren’t
scheduled to be in  Washington  the week of Feb. 20, and some have
begun discussing the possibility of extending the measure for
several months at a time.  Obama urged Americans to contact their representatives in
Congress and urge them to extend the tax break, which he said
would amount to about $1,000 for a household making $50,000 a
year.  “Tell them not to manufacture another needless standoff or
crisis,” Obama said. “Tell them not to stand in the way of the
recovery.”  Republican Address  Governor Bob McDonnell of  Virginia , in the Republican radio
and Internet  address , offered his party’s response to Obama’s
fiscal 2013 budget in advance of its Feb. 13 release. McDonnell
said the budget blueprint will stifle private sector job
creation and expand social programs, adding to the national
 budget deficit . Fiscal 2013 begins Oct. 1.  “With no boldness or leadership or setting priorities, the
Obama approach is simply more debt, more taxes and more blaming
others,” McDonnell said. “It appears we’ll see a bloated
budget that doubles down on the failed policies of the past.”  Obama’s budget projections are based on the assumption that
Congress will pass the payroll tax break and accept the White
House’s other policy recommendations, such as letting Bush-era
tax cuts for families earning $250,000 or more expire,
administration officials said. The budget forecasts a $901
billion deficit next year and it will also show a deficit of
$1.33 trillion this year and include hundreds of billions of
dollars in infrastructure spending.  McDonnell faulted  Senate Democrats  and Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  of  Nevada  for failing to pass a budget in almost
three years.  McDonnell cited the success of Republican governors
nationwide, who, he said, “closed $65 billion in deficits the
past two fiscal years alone.”  “At every level, governments should enact policies that
ensure our private sector job creators, small business owners
and entrepreneurs can compete against the world, create jobs and
innovate,” McDonnell said. “Republican leaders in our state
capitals are creating those opportunities for success and they
are getting results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  