-- Orioles Apologize for Breaking Protocol in Signing Korean Player
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-02-11T02:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/orioles-apologize-for-breaking-protocol-in-signing-korean-player.html
The  Baltimore Orioles  apologized for
breaking protocol in signing South Korean high school pitcher
Kim Seong-min to a minor-league contract, after their scouts
were banned from attending games in the Asian nation.  Last month, the Orioles signed the 17-year-old as a free
agent in a deal worth $550,000, the Baltimore Sun reported.  The  Korea  Baseball Organization, the professional league in
 South Korea , protested that the Orioles failed to initiate a
“status check” on the player’s eligibility to sign.  The Major League Baseball club apologized for an
“unintentional breach of protocol in failing to tender a status
check” in the process of signing Kim, Dan Duquette, Orioles
executive vice president of baseball operations, said in an e-
mail last night.  “The Orioles respect  Major League Baseball ’s recruiting
policies and the governing bodies and people that contribute to
the growth of baseball around the world,” he said.  The incident prompted Jeong Geum-jo, the KBO’s head of
baseball operations, to consider changing the rules so his
organization has the right to prevent MLB teams from signing
amateur players, according to the Yonhap News Agency.  “We’re seeking to revise the agreement so that only those
who are playing or have played for professional teams can sign
with MLB teams,” Jeong told Yonhap. “That way, we can protect
amateur players.”  The Korea Baseball Association, the sport’s governing body
in South Korea, said in a statement on Feb. 9 that the Orioles’
scouts will be prohibited from games, including the national
high school and college tournaments which showcase the country’s
best players. The group said the same penalty will be assessed
on any MLB team that contacts amateur players before their
senior year.  Kim, who pitched for Daegu Sangwon High School, was
suspended indefinitely from playing and coaching in Korea by the
KBA for making contact with a professional team before his final
year of high school, the Sun said.  Kim, who will turn 18 in April, is scheduled to appear at
the Orioles’ minor-league spring training camp in Sarasota,
 Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  