-- Pakistan Central Bank Keeps Rate at 12% as Price Surge Curbs Scope to Cut
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-02-11T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/pakistan-holds-rate-as-price-surge-curbs-scope-to-aid-growth-1-.html
Pakistan’s central bank left
 interest rates  unchanged for a second meeting as the fastest
inflation in  Asia  after Vietnam curbs scope to ease policy and
bolster growth.  The  State Bank  of Pakistan kept the  discount rate  at 12
percent, Governor Yaseen Anwar said at a news conference in
Karachi yesterday. Eight of 11 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey predicted the decision. Two expected a cut to 11.5
percent and one to 11 percent.  Pakistan, which joins South Korea and Australia in holding
rates this week, faces inflation exceeding 10 percent, faltering
growth following floods in 2010 and 2011 and an insurgency near
the Afghan border. The disasters, security risks, elevated price
pressures and a budget shortfall have left the economy “highly
vulnerable,” the  International Monetary Fund  has said.  “It is prudent to take this cautious approach,”  Saad Khan ,
an economist at Arif Habib Ltd. in Karachi, said after the
announcement. “There are inflationary pressures, fiscal deficit
issues and high government borrowing.”  Yesterday’s decision contrasts with  Indonesia , which
lowered borrowing costs unexpectedly by a quarter point two days
ago. Pakistan’s central bank cut rates by 2 percentage points in
2011, joining nations such as  China  in easing monetary policy as
 Europe ’s debt crisis hampered global expansion. The State Bank
subsequently paused in November.  “Inflationary pressures have not eased significantly
enough,” Anwar said yesterday. “A sustainable economic
recovery calls for increased domestic and foreign investment for
which business confidence needs to be revived.”  Inflation Quickens  Pakistani inflation accelerated to 10.1 percent in January,
the second-fastest pace in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific economies
tracked by Bloomberg, from 9.75 percent in December.  Government borrowing rose 25.8 percent to 440 billion
rupees ($4.9 billion) from July 1 to Feb. 3, Anwar said.  The  Pakistan  rupee is down about 6 percent against the
dollar in the past year on concern foreign reserves will shrink
as international aid dwindles. A continuing decline in the
reserves “would be credit negative,” Moody’s Investors Service
said this week. Reserves stood at $12.2 billion on Feb. 9,
according to the central bank.  Political risks have also deterred investors, with Prime
Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  facing a contempt-of-court charge
that threatens to force him from office.  Broader Tax Base  The IMF said Feb. 6 Pakistan should broaden the tax base,
curb some subsidies and curtail central bank financing of a
budget gap that may rise to 7 percent of gross domestic product
in the fiscal year ending June.  Monetary policy  is “too
accommodative,” it said.  An $11.3 billion IMF loan to Pakistan expired in September,
with disbursements suspended in May 2010 after the country
failed to meet conditions attached to it. The lender forecasts
GDP will rise 3.4 percent in the fiscal year through June.  The U.S., the country’s largest export market and aid
provider, held back $800 million in military assistance in July
out of $2 billion pledged for this fiscal year because of
disputes over how to combat terrorism.  Floods in August forced more than 1 million people from
their homes, while militant attacks have killed at least 35,000
people since 2006, according to estimates from the government.  The $175 billion economy grew 2.4 percent in the year
through June 2011, one of the smallest expansions in a decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  