-- Palin Says Republican Contest Still ‘Competitive’
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-11T23:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/palin-says-republican-presidential-contest-still-competitive-.html
Sarah Palin said the Republican
presidential contest remains “competitive” and urged
conservative activists to mobilize to deny President  Barack Obama  a second term.  “Competition elevates our game,” Palin said. “We’ve got
to keep the competition going. Let’s make sure this competition
brings out the best in our party.”  The former Alaska governor and 2008 Republican vice
presidential candidate spoke at the 39th Conservative Political
Action Conference, wrapping up the three-day event in
Washington.  Her speech followed the gathering’s annual straw poll, in
which Republican front-runner Mitt Romney captured 38 percent of
the vote, beating  Rick Santorum ’s 31 percent.  Santorum, fresh off victories in Colorado, Minnesota and
Missouri, had actively wooed CPAC activists, campaigning as the
“conservative alternative” to Romney and touting his small-
government ideals and opposition to abortion.  “Our candidate must be someone who must instinctively turn
right,” Palin said. “It’s too late to teach it or spin it at
this point.”  She urged the conservative activists to “stand united”
behind the eventual nominee.  “We must work together to get him over the finish line,”
she said. “This time next year we’ll have a true conservative
in office.”  Conservative Republicans  Romney has had difficulty connecting with the conservative
wing of the  Republican Party . Moments after Romney’s straw poll
victory, movement leader Richard A. Viguerie criticized the
former Massachusetts governor for describing himself as
“severely conservative.”  “Romney has shown, once again, that he can mouth the words
conservatives use, but he has no gut-level emotional connection
with the conservative movement and its ideas and policies,”
Viguerie said in a written statement.  Palin, Senator  John McCain ’s running mate against Democrat
Obama in 2008, blamed the president for a failed economy and
record  government spending .  She borrowed rhetoric from Obama’s 2008 campaign to rally
an audience heavy with cheering students.  “Oh yes, we can,” Palin said. “Hope and change. Yeah,
you gotta hope things change.”  “We don’t want an economy built to last, we want an
economy built to grow,” Palin said. “We certainly don’t want
your economy built to last. We want your administration to
end.”  The conference, hosted by the non-profit American
Conservative Union Foundation, attracts Republican and
conservative activists motivated by cutting taxes and ending
abortion rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 