-- Greek Leaders Urge Passage of Austerity Bill to Avoid the Chaos of Default
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n ,   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-02-11T14:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/papademos-wins-cabinet-approval-for-steps-to-secure-second-greece-bailout.html
George Papandreou  and Antonis
Samaras, leaders of  Greece ’s two largest parliamentary parties,
demanded support and discipline from lawmakers to back budget
cuts to secure international aid and prevent a collapse.  The interim government of Prime Minister Lucas Papademos
yesterday approved deeper budget cuts needed to gain a second
package of aid, preparing the way for a parliamentary vote in
Athens tomorrow. The measures equal about 7 percent of gross
domestic product over three years and include a debt swap that
would shave 100 billion euros ($132 billion) off more than 200
billion euros of privately-held debt.  “We have to sacrifice a lot so as not to sacrifice
everything,” Papandreou, leader of the Socialist Pasok party,
told lawmakers in  Athens . “We must speak honestly and tell
Greeks what bankruptcy really means. It means chaos.”  Police in Athens scuffled with protesters yesterday as
unions started a 48-hour strike against the austerity measures
demanded by the so-called troika of international creditors
monitoring Greece’s progress. The Cabinet backing capped a week
of tension as European Union and International Monetary Fund
officials argued with Greek officials over the conditions to
secure the 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) rescue package.  Looting and Chaos  Antonis Samaras, the leader of  New Democracy , the second-
biggest party, said a write-off of debt through a voluntary
exchange will allow the country to move away from the precipice.
It was self-evident that party discipline would be imposed
during the vote on a second financing package, he said, adding
that elections are needed as soon as financing is secured, as
previously agreed on by party leaders.  “It won’t solve the problem, but it will help,” Samaras
told party lawmakers today in Athens, in live comments on state-
run NET TV. “It distances us from bankruptcy, looting, the
chaos that would follow.”  With only weeks remaining before a 14.5 billion-euro bond
payment on March 20, five ministers resigned from Papademos’s
interim government yesterday in two hours. The measures are
aimed at budget cuts totaling 1.5 percent of GDP this year, and
include a 22 percent paring of the minimum wage, lower pensions
and immediate job cuts for as many as 15,000 state workers.  Laos Rejects  “It should be evident that whoever disagrees and doesn’t
vote for the new program cannot remain in this government,”
Papademos told his ministers. Failure on the package threatens
11 million Greeks with a default that would halt the payment of
wages and pensions and shut schools, hospitals and businesses,
he said. The vote amounts to a ballot on euro membership,
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said today.  The  Laos  party, which has 16 members in the 300-seat
parliament, said it would oppose the plan. The party’s four
ministers in the Papademos government resigned yesterday.  “What has particularly bothered me is the humiliation of
the country,” George Karatzaferis, the head of Laos, said
yesterday. “Clearly Greece can’t and shouldn’t do without the
European Union but it could do without the German boot.”  The parties that support Papademos’s government are meeting
ahead of the parliamentary votes. Lawmakers will convene from
Pasok and New Democracy, which leads in opinion polls before
elections due as soon as April. A number of Pasok deputies have
threatened to vote against the bill.  Missing Targets  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers
in Berlin yesterday that Greece was missing deficit goals and
needed to do more to meet its commitments. Schaeuble, briefing
lawmakers in Berlin on troika estimates relayed to the Brussels
meeting on Feb. 9, said current plans would leave Greece’s debt
as high as 136 percent of GDP by 2020, according to two people
in the meeting. That compares with the 120 percent foreseen in
the second bailout. Debt was about 160 percent of GDP last year.  The emergency euro-area talks broke up late on Feb. 9 with
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  saying Greece must
turn its budget cuts into law, flesh out 325 million euros in
spending reductions and have major party leaders sign up to the
program so they don’t retreat after elections. Another
extraordinary meeting was set for Feb. 15.  Resolution of the aid talks, which have dragged on since
July, would allow Greece to make the March bond payment and
contain the threat that speculators will target debt-saddled
nations including Italy and  Portugal .  Default Talk  Venizelos said today that Greece will default without an
agreement and euro-area finance ministers must approve the Greek
accord on Feb. 15. Officials from euro countries will assess
Greece’s “prior actions” that need to be completed before the
second rescue package can be approved by teleconference on Feb.
14, he said.  The strike called by the private-sector GSEE union shut
down schools, government services, and some public transit for
the second time this week.  “They want to privatize the entire country,” Ploumitsa
Triantafillopoulou, 42, who works for a group that promotes day-
care facilities, said yesterday in an interview. “All of us
here we will lose our jobs. They don’t care for us. They don’t
care for the people of Greece.”  Hardline Stance  Europe ’s hardline stance follows more than two years in
which Greece failed to carry through promised reforms to tackle
its uncompetitive economy and meet aid terms. The country blamed
its shortcomings on a deepening recession now set to worsen with
figures this week showing unemployment jumping to 20.9 percent
in November and industrial production declining.  Bondholders met separately in Paris on Feb. 9 to discuss
accepting an average coupon of as low as 3.6 percent on new 30-
year bonds in a proposed debt swap. An agreement would slice 100
billion euros off more than 200 billion euros of privately-held
debt. Venizelos said the country needs to make a formal offer to
private bondholders for a debt swap by Feb. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  