-- Rioters Burn Buildings as Greek Parliament Votes on Cuts
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s ,   E l e n i   C h r e p a   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-02-12T21:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/papademos-appeals-to-greeks-on-eve-of-vote-as-party-leaders-back-austerity.html
Rioters set fire to buildings and
battled police in downtown  Athens  as the Greek Parliament
prepared to vote on Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s austerity
package to avert the nation’s collapse.  Ten fires were burning in central Athens including
buildings housing a  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  cafe, a bank and a movie
theater, a fire department spokesman said, speaking on the
condition of anonymity in line with official policy. The blazes
were near a bank that was set on fire in May 2010, killing three
bank employees, during a general strike against Greece’s first
bailout package.  “Today at midnight, before markets open, the Greek
Parliament must send a message,” Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told lawmakers in Athens today as the final debate on
the accord to secure a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) second
aid package got under way. “We must show that Greeks, when they
are called on to choose between the bad and the worst, choose
the bad to avoid the worst.”  Demonstrators, rallying against austerity measures
including job cuts, tore up marble in front of parliament that
they hurled with fire-bombs at police guarding the chamber.
Officers in riot gear responded with tear-gas and flash
grenades. More than 50 officers were injured in the violence,
police spokesman Takis Papapetropoulos said by telephone. The
Greek Health Ministry said in an e-mailed statement that 54
people had been taken to hospital. Police said 25 rioters had
been detained.  ‘Athens in Flames’  “We are seeing Athens go up in flames again,” Mayor
George Kaminis, said in an interview on ANT1 television. “This
must stop. What they are trying to do to Athens is what they are
trying to do to the entire country.”  Papademos appealed to Greeks last night to support budget
cuts needed to win the aid while leaders of the two biggest
parties urged their lawmakers in parliament to pass the
austerity bill today or risk financial meltdown.  The vote is tantamount to a vote on whether Greece wants to
remain in the euro and is part of a fight to save the country,
Venizelos told parliament.  ‘Leave the Country’  “The message to the Greek government is they should leave
the country, right now,” one protester, Dimitris Fokos, 49,
unemployed, said. “They don’t represent the people anymore.”  Police estimated the crowd today at about 15,000, spokesman
Papapetropoulos said.  With only weeks remaining before the country faces a 14.5
billion-euro bond payment,  George Papandreou  and Antonis Samaras, the leaders of the two largest parliamentary parties,
urged support for the bill as lawmakers, with an eye on
elections as early as April, bristled at measures such as a 22
percent reduction in the minimum wage, smaller pensions and
immediate job cuts for as many as 15,000 state workers.  “We are looking the Greek people straight in the eye with
full knowledge of our historical responsibility,” Papademos
said in a televised address on the eve of the vote. “The social
costs that come with these measures are contained in comparison
to the economic and social catastrophe that will follow if we
don’t adopt them.”  Debt Swap  The measures equal about 7 percent of gross domestic
product over three years and include a debt swap that would
shave 100 billion euros off more than 200 billion euros of
privately held debt.  Police in Athens clashed with protesters on Feb. 10 after
unions started a 48-hour strike against the austerity measures
demanded by the so-called troika of international creditors
monitoring  Greece ’s progress.  Five ministers resigned from Papademos’s interim government
in the space of two hours on Feb. 10 instead of voting for the
austerity measures. About 12 deputies from the New Democracy
party may defy Samaras and oppose the bill, state-run television
NET reported, without saying how it got the information. Another
20 from the socialist party will do the same, the broadcaster
said.  Papademos’s interim government was formed three months ago
with the express mandate of securing the second loan package. It
was supported by three parties, Pasok, New Democracy and  Laos ,
which gave him 253 votes in the chamber. Greece was granted its
first package of aid in May 2010 worth 110 billion euros.  Schaeuble’s Warning  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers
in Berlin on Feb. 10 that Greece was missing deficit goals and
needed to do more. Schaeuble, briefing lawmakers in Berlin on
troika estimates relayed on Feb. 9, said current plans would
leave Greece’s debt as high as 136 percent of GDP by 2020,
according to two people in the meeting. That compares with the
120 percent foreseen in the second bailout. Debt was about 160
percent of GDP last year.  Schaeuble said it’s up to the Greeks to decide whether they
want to stay in the euro area, the Welt am Sonntag newspaper
 reported .  “Greece will be saved in one way or another,” Schaeuble
said. “But the country must do its homework to become
competitive” either within the framework of a new aid program
“or in another way that we actually don’t want.”  Greek Euro Exit  Erik F. Nielsen, UniCredit’s chief global economist, said
in a note today that he keeps hearing investors say a Greek exit
from the euro would be “better for all parties.”  “I am very confident that a Greek exit would be a disaster
for Greek society,” Nielsen said. “For the rest of Europe I
don’t think it’ll matter much (if at all) in the longer term,
but I fear that a lot of people may be underestimating the short
term risks to Europe of a Greek collapse.”  Officials from the European Commission,  European Central
Bank  and  International Monetary Fund , known as the troika, had
proposed that euro-region finance ministers contribute 15
billion euros more “because the banks need more money,”
Venizelos said yesterday in Athens.  The emergency euro-region talks broke up late on Feb. 9,
with Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  saying Greece
must turn budget cuts into law, flesh out 325 million euros in
reductions and have major party leaders sign up to the program
so they don’t retreat after elections. Another extraordinary
meeting of euro finance ministers was set for Feb. 15.  Resolution of the talks, which started in July, would help
contain the threat that speculators will target debt-saddled
nations, including Italy and  Portugal .  Assessing Greece  Venizelos said today that Greece will default without an
agreement, and euro-area finance ministers must approve the
Greek accord on Feb. 15. Officials from euro countries will
assess Greece’s “prior actions,” which need to be completed
before the second rescue package can be approved by
teleconference on Feb. 14, he said.  Europe ’s stance follows more than two years in which Greece
failed to carry through promised reforms to tackle its
uncompetitive economy and meet aid terms. The country blamed its
shortcomings on a deepening recession now set to worsen, with
figures last week showing unemployment jumping to 20.9 percent
in November and industrial production declining.  Bondholders met separately in Paris on Feb. 9 to discuss
accepting a debt swap for new 30-year bonds with an average
coupon of as low as 3.6 percent. An agreement would slice 100
billion euros off more than 200 billion euros of privately held
debt. Venizelos said the country needs to make a formal offer to
private bondholders for a debt swap by Feb. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  