-- Treasury Yield Gap Narrows as Greek Bailout Debate Clouds Economic Outlook
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-11T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/treasury-yield-gap-narrows-as-greek-debt-debate-damps-outlook.html
The difference between yields on
Treasuries due in 10 and 30 years  narrowed  for the first time in
three weeks amid concern European leaders have not taken enough
steps to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Benchmark 10-year note  yields  rose for a second week while
those for 30-year bonds were little changed as investors
submitted fewer bids than the previous month at government
auctions of both securities. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that improvements in the U.S. housing
market have been “frustratingly slow,” before the central bank
releases minutes on Feb. 15 from its previous policy meeting.  “There’re still some skeptics about news there may be a
solution to the Greek problem,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-
income trading in New York at Williams Capital Group, a
brokerage for institutional investors. “In the absence of any
significant data” this week, doubts about the pace of U.S.
growth “are about what’s going on in  Europe .”  The gap in yields between 10-year notes and 30-year bonds
shrank to 1.15 percentage points from 1.20 percentage points
last week, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
difference in yields between the two securities reached the
widest since Sept. 20 on Feb. 3.  Benchmark Yields  Yields on 10-year notes rose six basis points this week, or
0.06 percentage point, to 1.99 percent in  New York . The 2
percent securities maturing in February 2022 reached 100 1/8.  The 30-year bond yield rose two basis points to 3.14
percent.  The widening of the gap between 10- and 30-year yields
“happened quite sharply since a few weeks ago once the data
really started to get better,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an
interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, one of
21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “I see it as a
short-term pull-back in a longer-term rising trend.  The difference could reach 1.25 percentage points in the
next month, Prakash said. It had been 1.02 percentage points at
the end of 2011.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-short position in 30-year bond futures while
increasing their net-short position in 10-year note futures in
the week ending Feb. 7, according to U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data.  Futures Bets  Speculative 30-year bond futures short positions, or bets
prices will fall, outnumbered long positions by 11,817 contracts
on the Chicago Board of Trade. Net-short positions fell by 5,364
contracts, or 31 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-
based commission said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Speculative 10-year note futures short positions
outnumbered long positions by 43,460 contracts. Net-short
positions rose by 13,877 contracts, or 47 percent, from a week
earlier.  Bidding at the government’s three note and bond offerings
this week totaling $72 billion was weaker than similar sales
last month. Treasury sold $16 billion of 30-year bonds Feb. 9 as
the bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total
bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.47, versus 2.6
at the January offering and an average of 2.66 for the previous
10 sales.  Treasury sold $24 billion of 10-year notes Feb. 8 and $32
billion of three-year notes Feb. 7.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings based on options, closed Feb. 9 at 83.2 basis
points, up from 70.2 basis points reached Feb. 2 that was the
lowest level since July 2007. The five-year average is 111.9
basis points.  Greek Talks  Treasuries gained yesterday for the first time in four days
as European finance ministers withheld a rescue package for
 Greece  pending the nation’s approval of fiscal austerity
measures. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  secured approval
from his Cabinet to submit laws for new budget measures designed
to secure a second rescue package for the country, according to
a government official yesterday.  Greece’s Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said
yesterday his euro-area counterparts declined to approve a 130
billion-euro ($171 billion) aid package for Greece at an
emergency meeting because the government fell short on austerity
demands.  “There are more worries that the Greek deal, that sounded
good yesterday, has more bumps in the road,” Jason Rogan,
director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC,
a New York-based brokerage for institutional investors, said
yesterday.  Economic Data  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for February fell to 72.5 from 75 at
the end of last month. Economists projected a reading of 74.8,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Bernanke said efforts to spur economic growth are being
blunted by impediments to mortgage lending, and he called for
further steps to heal the housing market.  “We have helped lower  mortgage rates  to the lowest point
in many, many decades,” Bernanke told homebuilders yesterday in
 Orlando ,  Florida . “Yet we are not seeing as much activity as we
would like to see.”  The central bank announced Jan. 25 it will keep its target
for overnight bank lending at virtually zero until at least late
2014. Bernanke said policy makers were considering buying bonds
to sustain the expansion.  The Fed is in the process of replacing $400 billion of
shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term
debt to cap borrowing costs and spur the economy under a program
it plans to conclude in June.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., boosted his holdings of
Treasuries to the most since July 2010. Gross boosted the
proportion of U.S. government and Treasury debt in Pimco’s
$250.5 billion Total Return  Fund (PTTRX)  to 38 percent in January from
30 percent in December, according to the company’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  