-- Saudi Shares Advance to 21-Month High After Greece Cabinet Approves Deal
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2012-02-11T13:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/saudi-shares-fluctuate-on-greece-deal-dar-al-arkan-shares-gain.html
Saudi Arabian shares erased earlier
losses, sending the benchmark index to its highest close in 21
months, following approval by  Greece ’s Cabinet for deeper budget
cuts required for a second aid package.  Dar Al Arkan Real Estate Development Co. reached its
highest price since May, while  Jabal Omar Development Co. (JOMAR)  jumped
the most this month.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 0.1 percent to 6,804.03 at
the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh, its highest level since May 2010.
The 151-member measure erased earlier losses of as much as 0.3
percent, extending gains in the past three days to 1 percent.  “Investors are watching headlines out of Greece on
securing bailout funds,” said Asim Bukhtiar, head of research
at Riyad Capital. “We may continue to see some see-saw on the
Tadawul until a concrete announcement.”  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  obtained approval from
his Cabinet for deeper budget cuts needed to secure a second
package of international aid, clearing the latest hurdle in his
race to prevent financial collapse.  Dar Al Arkan gained 4.6 percent to 9.05 riyals. Jabal Omar
advanced 3.3 percent, the biggest increase since Jan. 31, to
14.05 riyals.  Saudi Kayan Petrochemical Co. strengthened 0.3 percent to
16.25 riyals, its highest closing since Feb. 5. The unit of
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. said output has resumed gradually
at plants producing olefins and high-density polyethylene after
the completion of unscheduled maintenance due to a power
failure.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
that opens on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in  Riyadh  at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  