-- SEC Looking Into PE Firms’ Valuation of Assets
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-02-12T03:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/sec-looking-into-private-equity-firms-valuation-of-assets.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has started an informal inquiry of private equity
firms, asking for a broad range of documents on how the funds
value assets and who invests in them.  Among issues regulators are examining is whether firms use
inflated valuations to attract investors when marketing new
funds, said a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be identified because the inquiry isn’t public.  The agency’s  Los Angeles  office last year sent letters to
several firms asking for details on fund investments and the
valuation of assets, as well as communication with clients,
according to the copy of a letter obtained by Bloomberg News.
Firms were asked to produce the documents by the end of last
year.  Private equity firms have come under scrutiny in the
aftermath of the financial crisis, which forced firms to mark
down holdings acquired during a three-year boom that ended in
2008 when the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. froze
credit markets. Financial reform measures such as the Dodd-Frank
Act have proposed more oversight of the firms’ businesses.  An inquiry six years ago into whether firms drove down
prices of takeover targets in so-called “club deals” didn’t
result in government action, although several firms were
subsequently accused by private plaintiffs of conspiring to rig
the market for leveraged buyouts.  SEC Letter  The SEC said its “request should not be construed as an
indication by the commission or its staff that any violation of
the federal  securities law  has occurred, nor should it be a
reflection upon any person, entity or security,” according to
the 16-page letter, which is dated Dec. 8.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail sent outside normal working hours. The SEC’s inquiry was
reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  Private equity firms pool investor money to buy companies,
using mostly debt, with the intention of selling them or taking
them public later for a profit. They typically charge an annual
management fee of 1.5 percent to 2 percent of committed funds
and keep 15 percent to 20 percent of profit from investments.  The SEC in June voted to require private-fund advisers to
register with the agency, although publicly traded private
equity firms already provide detailed information in quarterly
and yearly filings. The mandate forces 750 advisers to disclose
“census-like data” about their investors and employees, the
assets they manage, potential conflicts of interest and their
activities outside of fund advising.  Antitrust Lawsuit  In October 2006, the government launched an informal
inquiry into club deals to determine whether firms were
colluding to thwart competition and artificially hold down the
prices paid for companies. While no actions were brought by the
government, 11 firms including KKR & Co. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
were sued the following year by plaintiffs including a Detroit
police and fire pension fund.  The lawsuit, initially filed in 2007, claims the firms
conspired to drive down prices in the largest leveraged buyout
deals in violation of federal antitrust laws. U.S. District
Judge Edward F. Harrington said in a ruling Sept. 7 that the
plaintiffs, whose suit was initially limited to 17 transactions,
can expand their investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  