-- Soros: Greek Bailout Won’t Rid Europe of Danger
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-12T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/soros-says-greek-bailout-not-enough-to-rid-europe-of-danger-.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
predicted weak growth and lingering political tension that could
shatter  Europe ’s economic union even if Greece agrees to
austerity measures.  “Right now the European Union and particularly the heavily
indebted countries face a lost decade,” Soros said. “It might
actually be longer than a decade because  Japan  that had a
similar situation with the real estate boom and the banking
crisis has had now 25 years of no growth,” Soros said.  “That will create tensions within the European Union,
which could destroy the European Union,” he said. “And that’s
a real danger.”  Soros spoke in an interview taped on Feb. 9 for  CNN ’s
“Fareed Zakaria GPS,” scheduled to air today.  A package of budget, wage and pension cuts that  Greece ’s
parliment could adopt as soon as tomorrow is “not necessarily
going to work in the long run,” Soros said. “But it will
certainly buy you another six months of quiet on the Greek
front.”  “Greece is a sick situation” that has been “mishandled”
by European authorities and “will continue to be an irritant
and a problem for Europe,” Soros said. The European Union, once
a desirable objective, has become “more of an imposition,” he
said.  The interim government of Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos Feb.10 approved budget cuts needed to secure a second
package of aid from euro-zone finance ministers, preparing the
way for a ratification vote in parliament today.  Signs of Revival  In the U.S., the economy “shows some signs of revival,”
thanks in part to the emergence of shale gas and oil and years
of low-wage growth, which have lowered manufacturing costs,
Soros said.  President  Barack Obama , who has done a “mixed job”,
deserves a second term, Soros said.  “The problems that he inherited, because he came in
immediately after a financial crisis, were bigger than any
president could have immediately remedied,” Soros said. “So,
whoever gets elected now has a much better chance of being
successful than Obama had.”  He endorsed Obama’s “Buffett rule,” named after fellow
billionaire  Warren Buffett , to require those earning more than
$1 million a year to be taxed at a minimum rate of 30 percent.  “The big boom, the super bubble, really resulted in a
great increase in inequity. Now we have the after-effect where
you have slow growth one way or the other,” Soros said.  “If you could have better distribution of income, then the
average American would actually be better off as a result. But
that is totally politically unacceptable.”  Soros said he would pay more in taxes under the plan.  “My tax bill would go up a lot if you had a minimum tax.
But I’m willing to pay that because I think if everybody who
made as much money as I do gave as much as I do, I wouldn’t
advocate it,” Soros said. “I think the free riders should also
pay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  