-- Spanish Bonds Fall 2nd Week on 10-Year Sale; Italian Debt Gains
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-02-11T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/spanish-bonds-fall-2nd-week-on-10-year-sale-italian-debt-gains.html
Spanish 10-year bonds  fell  for a
second week after the nation sold additional securities through
banks, as Greek officials struggled to reach accords needed to
win a second rescue package.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield increased the most last week
since the five days ended Jan. 6. Ten-year German  yields  dropped
from the highest in almost two months after Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  was said to tell lawmakers in Berlin that
Greece is missing its debt-cutting targets. Italian 10-year
bonds advanced for a fifth consecutive week, the longest run in
more than five years.  “Spanish bonds sold off on more supply in the shape of a
syndicated 10-year deal,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income
strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London. “That’s
the reason for the underperformance.”  Spain’s 10-year yield climbed 32 basis points, or 0.32
percentage point, in the week to 5.31 percent at 4:10 p.m.
 London  time yesterday, the biggest increase since the period
ended Jan. 6. Two-year yields added 27 basis points to 2.85
percent.  Spain hired six banks to sell 4 billion euros ($5.3
billion) of the 10-year securities, which have been used as the
nation’s benchmark since Jan. 20. The bonds were sold at a yield
300 basis points more than the swap rate. The sale increased the
total size of the issue to 11.3 billion euros, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Second Bailout  German bunds rose yesterday after European finance
ministers held back a rescue package for Greece.  The refusal of European finance ministers to approve the
130 billion-euro bailout reflected the region’s frustration with
the country’s politicians and concern they will again backtrack
on fiscal commitments.  Schaeuble said yesterday  Greece ’s pledges would leave the
nation’s debt at as much as 136 percent of gross domestic
product by 2020, according to two people who took part in the
meeting. The target for Greece’s budget cuts and bond writedown
was to reduce debt to 120 percent of GDP.  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield dropped 11 basis points to
1.91 percent yesterday, after rising to 2.05 percent on Feb. 9,
the highest since Dec. 13. The yield slid three basis points for
the week.  Spanish and Italian bonds have rallied since the  European
Central Bank  provided unlimited three-year cash to the region’s
financial institutions in December to avoid a credit crunch.  Collateral  Spain’s 10-year yields have fallen about 1.5 percentage
points from a  euro-era high  in November amid speculation banks
are buying the securities to use as collateral with the ECB
under the program, known as the longer-term refinancing
operation. The central bank will offer another set of the loans
on Feb. 28, with allocation a day later.  The more measures Spain’s government implements to ensure
budget stability, the easier it is for the ECB to provide
support, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said Feb. 8.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity bunds widened 32 basis points
in the week to 3.37 percentage points. Italian 10-year bonds
yielded 3.68 percentage points more than similar-maturity bunds,
from 3.77 percentage points on Feb. 3.  “We’re in a holding pattern waiting for announcement on
the Greek side,” said Guy Mandy, a fixed-income strategist at
Nomura International Plc in London. “The more cautious
investors are sticking with core markets, and others that see
the LTRO as quite bullish are still looking at peripherals.”  Italy is next week scheduled to sell 4 billion euros of 6
percent notes maturing in 2014.  France  also plans to auction
bonds, while Greece and  Portugal  will sell bills.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  