-- Wuhu Waives Tax, Subsidizes Buyers as First Chinese City Easing Home Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-11T09:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/wuhu-waives-tax-subsidizes-buyers-as-first-chinese-city-easing-home-curbs.html
Wuhu in eastern  China  will waive a
deed tax and subsidize some home purchases, becoming the first
city in the nation to ease property curbs this year even as the
central government reiterated plans to maintain restrictions.  The mid-sized city in Anhui province will give subsidies of
50 yuan ($7.90) a square meter (10.76 square feet) for the
purchase of homes between 70 square meters and 90 square meters,
and 150 yuan a square meter for new homes smaller than 70 square
meters, the local government said in a  statement  on its website
yesterday.  Wuhu’s announcement may signal more easing of property
measures by local governments as prices fall, said Peter Bai, a
Beijing-based property analyst at China International Capital
Corp. Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated on Jan. 31 that China will
maintain real-estate market curbs to bring prices down to a
reasonable level. Beijing and Shanghai are among cities that
said they will continue to impose restrictions this year.  “Local governments, especially those third-tier cities,
rely largely on the property sector for economic growth; they
are facing a lot of pressure now,” Bai said. “More cities will
follow suit this year.”  The measures in Wuhu are intended meet demand from buyers
with low incomes and to attract residents with higher education
rather than to bail out the  property market , the official Xinhua
News Agency reported today, citing comments by Hong Jianping,
Wuhu’s deputy mayor, at a media briefing yesterday.  First Time Buyers  Under the new policies, the subsidies will apply to
purchases of first homes, Xinhua said. Home buyers with more
extensive educational backgrounds or professional qualifications
are entitled to higher subsidies, the agency said.  In October, Foshan in southern China’s Guangdong province
suspended a decision to ease limits on property purchases less
than a day after it said it would allow residents to buy a
second home.  It is less “sensitive” for cities not well-known outside
China to become the first to start easing property curbs, said
CICC’s Bai. Wuhu is home to Chery Automobile Co., the country’s
sixth-largest automaker.  The central bank this week pledged support for first-home
buyers as a crackdown on property speculation threatens to
trigger a slump in the real estate market.  China’s home prices fell for a fifth month in January, the
longest losing streak since SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s
biggest real estate website, started tracking the data on July
2010.  A deed tax usually is 1 percent to 2 percent of the value
of a home, according to CIMB-GK Securities Research. On a 90-
square-meter (969-square-foot) apartment, the government’s
subsidy amounts to an additional 4,500 yuan.  “Policy relaxation from local governments came faster than
expected and the next step for them is to ease the
implementation of home purchase restrictions,” said Johnson Hu,
a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CIMB-GK Securities
Research, in a note to clients yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  