-- Yale Law School Cuts Back Loan Program for Low-Earning Graduates
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-11/yale-law-school-cuts-back-loan-program-for-low-earning-graduates.html
Yale Law School , citing rising
costs, cut back a loan program that encourages indebted students
to take lower-paying public-service and government jobs.  Starting with the class enrolling this fall, graduates must
make less than $50,000 a year for Yale Law School to pick up the
entire cost of their student-loan payments, said  Asha Rangappa ,
an associate dean. Currently, they could make as much as $60,000
annually to qualify. Yale also is reducing partial subsidies
available for some higher-earning graduates.  Yale Law School has among the U.S.’s most generous loan-
subsidy programs, designed to encourage students to work as
public defenders and district attorneys instead of corporate
lawyers. Under the program, graduates can have their loans
forgiven entirely after 10 years.  “The driving force for this change was to ensure the
sustainability of the program,” Rangappa said yesterday in a
phone interview. “It needed to be reined in for it to
survive.”  Yale University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , started its
Career Option Assistance Program in 1989, and more than 1,500
law school graduates have participated through 2010, receiving
more than $29 million in benefits, according to its website.  In 2010, the program distributed about $3 million in
benefits to more than 300 graduates. Recent alumni have worked
for such employers as the U.S. State Department,  Human Rights
Watch  and the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, the school said.  Popular Program  The cost of the program has been growing 5 percent to 9
percent a year, and its increased popularity may be due to the
economy or more interest in public-service law,  Brent Dickman ,
associate dean for finance and administration, said in a phone
interview. The Yale Daily News reported the change in the
program yesterday.  Yale Law School  charges $50,275 in tuition, according to
its website. Under the new program, graduates with an average
debt load of $107,000 will be eligible for partial subsidies of
their student-loan payments if they earn as much as $90,000 a
year, down from $108,000 a year previously, Rangappa said. At
the lower end of that range, Yale will still pick up most of
students’ loan payments, with the subsidies gradually reduced as
their incomes rise, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  