-- 
$22 Billion Fund Backed by Gates Lacks Safeguards, Review Finds

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-19T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/-22-billion-fund-backed-by-gates-lacks-safeguards-review-finds.html
A $22 billion disease-fighting fund
backed by donors including  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation lacks sufficient safeguards to prevent
fraud and must reform to remain effective, a review found.  The Geneva-based  Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis
and Malaria  is also likely to have “substantially less” than
its estimate of $1.5 billion for the next round of grants as it
faces “accelerating deterioration” in its finances for the
next three years, according to the review published today by a
committee led by former U.S. Health Secretary  Michael Leavitt .  The fund appointed the committee in March after reporting
 “grave misuse of funds”  in four recipient nations, prompting
governments including Germany and  Sweden  to freeze donations. It
spent more than $13 billion since 2002 fighting the biggest
infectious killers, and has committed to spending about $9
billion more. Economic distress in donor nations, combined with
corruption in some of the poor ones it helps, “imperil the
sustainability” of the organization, the report said.  “There’s nothing here that can’t be fixed," Leavitt said
in a telephone briefing with reporters. "The fund does not have
enough capacity to respond to every need the world presents in
those three disease categories and therefore it must be
selective in how it invests its limited resources.”  The committee said the fund has “inadequate accountability
mechanisms” and “insufficiently rigorous scrutiny of budgets”
in grant proposals, allowing for “padding” of budgets that are
then easily exploited.  ‘Austerity’  At its triennial replenishment meeting in  New York  last
year, the fund received pledges of $11.7 billion for programs
from 2011 to 2013. That’s more than the $9.7 billion it had for
the previous three years, and a little more than half of the $20
billion it wanted.  “Austerity among the donors makes the Global Fund more
vulnerable now than at any time in its history,” the committee
said. “The halcyon days of ever-increasing budgets for global
health are over.”  The U.S. government pledged $4 billion, making it the
biggest donor, followed by  France  with $1.5 billion. The Gates
Foundation, the world’s richest charity, has contributed $650
million and Chevron has committed $55 million.  Among its recommendations, the committee said the fund
should adopt a risk management approach to financing programs
whereby it takes account of which countries can be most trusted
with its money. It should also pay for surveys of disease rates
in recipient nations that it can then specifically target.  The Global Fund welcomes the findings and is “totally
committed to making the necessary changes,” it said in a
statement.  ‘Unacceptable’ Relationship  “We want the focus to be on not just quantity and speed of
disbursement, we want this very much to be about the delivery of
results and impact on the ground,” Simon Bland, the fund’s
chairman, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a message we can
take.”  The report also described as “unacceptable” the working
relationship between Michel Kazatchkine, the fund’s executive
director, and its inspector general, John Parsons, whose office
is responsible for auditing grants and investigating fraud. The
board must deal with it as an “urgent priority,” the report
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  