-- 
‘Angry Birds’ May Slingshot Into Starbucks in Retail Expansion

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-09-19T23:50:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/-angry-birds-creator-talks-with-starbucks-in-bid-to-slingshot-into-retail.html
“Angry Birds” game creator Rovio
Entertainment Oy is working on alliances with  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
and other retailers to reach new customers and sell a wider
range of products.  Rovio, whose smartphone game has been downloaded more than
350 million times, is in discussions with Starbucks about in-
store promotions, Wibe Wagemans, a senior vice president at the
Espoo, Finland-based company, said in an interview. Rovio may
offer virtual goods and set up electronic leader boards in
stores to tout top-scoring  “Angry Birds”  players.  The company is trying to convert its digital success into a
real-world empire by selling “Angry Birds” books, stuffed
animals, T-shirts and other gear. Rovio also is planning a movie
version of the game. It’s part of an effort to diversify sales
and attract more customers ahead of an initial public offering,
which the company says may take place within the next few years.  “It’s tying in the real world with the virtual world,”
Wagemans said. “Retailers get new customers who’ve not been to
their stores yet, and repeat customers.”  Having leader boards encourages customers to play “Angry
Birds” on their devices at the store, so they can see their
scores spotlighted, he said. The game involves using a slingshot
to fire birds at enemy pigs, who build increasingly elaborate
fortifications.  Starbucks Partnership  Starbucks, the world’s biggest operator of coffee shops,
declined to comment on any talks with Rovio.  “While we are always looking for great partnerships to
better meet the needs of our customers, at this time we have no
announcements regarding any work with Rovio Entertainment,” the
Seattle-based company said in an e-mailed statement.  Rovio is expanding into new areas as the market for mobile
and social-networking games intensifies. While “Angry Birds”
is one of the best-selling applications for smartphones and
tablets, new competitors emerge daily. Among paid apps, “Angry
Birds” has been bumped from the top of the U.S. iPhone download
charts by  Firemint Pty Ltd. ’s “Spy Mouse.”  Rovio, which offers merchandise on its website, already
sells 1 million stuffed animals a month, Wagemans said. He
declined to discuss financial results. The company raised $42
million in funding in March, and has held talks about another
investment that would value Rovio at about $1.2 billion, people
familiar with the matter said last month.  Barnes & Noble  Rovio began running “Angry Birds” leader-board promotions
at  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s U.S. locations this year. It also sells
merchandise through the bookstore chain, as well as Toys “R”
Us Inc.  “Angry Birds” is now seeking to crack the market for
social-networking games, where Zynga Inc. dominates. Rovio has a
game for the  Google+  service, and a version for Facebook Inc. is
in the works, Wagemans said.  Getting the game on Facebook could shake up the market,
said  Elizabeth Shaw , an analyst at  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR) , a
research firm based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  “I’d definitely predict a big splash,” Shaw said. “It
would definitely rev up competition.”  Rovio has versions of the game for personal computers and
the  Roku streaming service , and it’s looking to bring it to more
television-connected devices, Wagemans said.  Users of Barnes & Noble’s  Nook e-book readers  who stop by
the bookstores can get a free virtual item -- a Mighty Eagle.
The bird, which normally costs 99 cents, appears in the game and
helps players advance to the next level.  Tens of thousands of people have received Mighty Eagles in
stores, Wagemans said. And more than 10,000 people have spent
more than 30 minutes playing at Barnes & Noble locations,
boosting the stores’ foot traffic, he said.  “There are retailers out there who have a lot to gain by
increasing the time spent at their location, and increasing the
money spent there,” Wagemans said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  