-- 
‘Buffett Rule’ Is Wrong Way to Spread the Budget Burden: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-20T00:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/-buffett-rule-is-wrong-way-to-spread-the-budget-burden-view.html
Dating back to his 2008 election
campaign, President  Barack Obama  has repeatedly -- though not
consistently -- proposed allowing the George W. Bush-era tax
cuts to expire for people with incomes over $200,000 ($250,000
for a couple).  In the White House  Rose Garden  on Monday, the president
made his plea again, but this time he added a flourish: a
further tax increase -- details not yet available -- on
Americans with incomes of more than a million dollars. This has
become known as the “Buffett Rule,” after the billionaire
 Warren Buffett , who has argued for raising taxes on the well-to-
do.  We have great admiration for Mr. Buffett. Not only that: We
agree with him that it’s a scandal when he pays a lower average
tax on his income than any of his employees. Although we would
much prefer comprehensive  tax reform  that would eliminate most
loopholes in exchange for lower marginal rates, we agree that
Obama’s proposal to let the Bush tax cuts lapse for incomes of
more than $250,000 is better than the status quo.  However, we don’t support a special tax on millionaires.
Not because it’s damaging to the economy in and of itself, but
because it’s silly. And silly can be dangerous if it stands in
the way of sensible reform.  A debate over taxing millionaires (and Buffett urges yet
another bracket for ten-millionaires) will eat up time and
attention that needs to be hoarded for the important debate
about quarter-millionaires (i.e., the $250,000 crowd), because
that’s where the real money starts.  A special millionaires’ tax would affect three taxpayers
out of 1,000. Absurdly, it would let people making, say,
$900,000 off the hook. We have no idea how much revenue it would
bring in --exact figures aren’t available because Obama is going
to leave the exact structure of the tax to the so-called
supercommittee of senators and representatives that grew out of
last month’s debt-ceiling jamboree. It’s largely symbolic.
Worse, it’s a distraction.  Graduated rates are important to make any tax system fair:
People with higher incomes should pay more. And we suppose that
people making $250,000 look up at people making $1 million and
feel the same sense of unfairness that people making $25,000
feel about people making $60,000. That’s why comprehensive
reform, rather than mucking around with the current  tax code ,
should be a priority.  Politically, making a big hoo-ha about millionaires
actually supports the Republican accusation, advanced by House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  and others, that the whole
thing is just “class warfare”: that making sure the money is
collected is more important than how it is spent.  The Buffett Rule plays right into Obama’s unfortunate
tendency to vilify people and institutions (medical-insurance
companies, banks and so on). The criticism may be appropriate,
but the vilification isn’t. In accusing his critics on Monday of
wanting to put “all the burden for closing our deficit on
ordinary Americans,” the president casually expelled the
wealthy from “ordinary” society.  There is nothing inherently evil or even objectionable
about making $1 million a year. People in that bracket are
probably no worse, on average, than people who only make
$900,000 or $800,000 or $37,298. The truth is that to straighten
out our fiscal mess we are going to need more revenue from
people making less than Obama’s sacred $250,000.  Taxes are not a punishment, nor are they class warfare.
They are, as Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. famously put it, the
price we pay for a civilized society. And that price needs to go
up for everybody, not just for millionaires.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 