-- 
‘Buy American’ Aims at Shift Older Than Obama: Chart of the Day

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/-buy-american-aims-at-shift-older-than-obama-chart-of-the-day.html
Barack Obama’s proposed ‘Buy
American’ stimulus policy may fail to reverse shifts in
employment and trade that began about six decades ago, before
the U.S. president was born.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows U.S. manufacturing employment
has fallen to 9 percent of the workforce from 30 percent in
1955, before Obama’s birth in 1961. American trade openness, or
the ratio of the sum of exports and imports to gross domestic
product, has risen to 30 percent from 6 percent during that
time, according to Bloomberg calculations.  “Various administrations have tried Buy American policies
which have been found not to be effective,” Mickey Kantor, a
U.S. Trade Representative in the Clinton administration who is
now a partner at Mayer Brown LLP in  Washington , said in an
interview. In addition to being “very difficult to implement or
enforce,” Kantor said “no policy of any administration is
going to turn down the trend of globalization.”  The $447 billion plan aimed at spurring employment includes
a provision that says factory goods purchased with the plan’s
funds must come from U.S. suppliers. President Obama said Sept.
12 Congress should pass it with “no games, no politics, no
delays” at a time when unemployment has been around 9 percent
or higher for more than two years. House Speaker  John Boehner 
said the proposal needs “careful examination.”  While the plan may do little to stem the tide of
globalization, it is “well designed” and will help stimulate
the economy, Kantor said, adding that Congress should pass it
quickly because delays will further erode business confidence.  Failure to enact the legislation “will continue this
notion among American business that there is no certainty and
therefore why should they re-invest in certain facilities and
employment and other uses of their capital,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 