-- 
‘Mad Men’ Spawns Bunnies, Stewardesses; Bello’s Mirren: Fall TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-09-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/-mad-men-spawns-bunnies-stewardesses-bello-takes-on-mirren-fall-series.html
Haven’t got time for more than one
retro-fitted, pseudo-feminist “Mad Men” rip-off?  Eleven new scripted series make their network debuts this
week. Here are my recommendations, based entirely on first
impressions. (ABC’s “Charlie’s Angels” wasn’t available for
review.)  Bunnies, Stews, ‘Revenge’  If forced to choose, fly “Pan Am”. ABC’s Sunday night (10
p.m.  New York  time) soap about the secret lives of 1960s-vintage
stewardesses is as garish as a color Polaroid, but at least has
some fun stocking its friendly skies with runaway brides, Cold
War spies and a winning Christina Ricci.  NBC’s “Playboy Club” on Monday (10 p.m.) is dead serious,
whether pitching Bunnyhood as feminist empowerment or Eddie
Cibrian as an off-cable  Jon Hamm . Filled with mob guys and
cotton-tailed dolls, this humorless drama robs itself of the
“Showgirls”-style kitsch that might have been a saving grace.  ABC’s “Revenge,” on Wednesday (10 p.m.), shows no such
restraint, and easily tops “Pan Am” and “Playboy” in guilty
pleasures. Loosely based on “The Count of Monte Cristo,”
“Revenge” feels closer to “Dynasty” than Dumas. Emily VanCamp
plays a Hamptons arriviste with a secret agenda to settle old
scores. Madeleine Stowe, in a role Joan Collins would have
poisoned for, is the new girl’s moneyed nemesis.  Cummings or ‘New Girl’  Whitney Cummings, a comic of the brash Chelsea Handler
school, has two sitcoms debuting this week -- and barely a solid
laugh between them.  Cummings co-created (with “Sex and the City” writer
Michael Patrick King) CBS’s “2 Broke Girls,” a Monday night
entry (9:30 p.m. this week; 8:30 thereafter) about the odd
couple friendship between a hipster waitress (Kat Dennings) and
her Paris Hilton-like coworker (Beth Behrs).  Set in  Brooklyn ’s trendy Greenpoint neighborhood, “2 Broke
Girls” couldn’t seem less of the moment. Its vulgar “Two and a
Half Men” style of comedy relies on broad class and ethnic
stereotypes.  Cummings makes a better impression as the star of NBC’s
“Whitney” on Thursday (9:30 p.m.). As a young couple
struggling to keep romance alive, she and her laconic co-star
Chris D’Elia have a droll appeal. When they role-play a sexy
nurse and patient, Whitney hands the boyfriend a stack of
insurance forms.  Unfortunately, “Whitney” surrounds the couple with a
clique of abrasive friends.  Fox’s “New Girl” on Tuesday (9 p.m.) has a more welcoming
bunch. Zooey Deschanel stars as Jess, a dorky indie girl
heartbroken over a recent breakup. She shares a loft with three
newfound male buddies, sobbing, singing off-key and watching
reruns of “Dirty Dancing.”  Deschanel’s strenuous attempts at adorableness wear thin,
but compared to Whitney and the broke girls, she’s a catch.  ‘Prime’ or ‘Person’  Maria Bello might have the least enviable job on TV this
fall. Starring in NBC’s remake of the excellent British crime
series “Prime Suspect,” Bello takes on the detective role made
famous by the incomparable  Helen Mirren .  She doesn’t better Mirren -- who could? -- but she holds
her own as a woman battling both crime and the resentment of
male co-workers. “Prime Suspect,” airing Thursday (10 p.m.),
is a smart, gritty cop show for grown-ups, and the week’s most
promising drama.  CBS’s highly touted “Person of Interest,” also Thursday
(9 p.m.), is a disappointment. The brainchild of “ Dark Knight ”
screenwriter Jonathan Nolan and “Lost” producer  J.J. Abrams ,
the series stars a glum Jim Caviezel ( Mel Gibson ’s Jesus) as a
broken-down ex-CIA agent pulled back into crime-fighting by a
mysterious billionaire with a future-predicting computer.  The post-9/11 security state premise is intriguing, and
Michael Emerson, Abrams’ old cohort from “Lost,” brings his
familiar creepiness to the wealthy software genius. Judging by
the first episode, that might not be enough to energize this
downbeat, convoluted show.  ‘Unforgettable’ or ‘Gifted’  CBS offers two entries in the category of do-gooders with
gimmicks. Tuesday’s “Unforgettable” (10 p.m.) features Poppy
Montgomery as a New York City detective who uses her
hyperthymesia, or super memory, to recreate crime scenes with
near-miraculous precision.  The network’s “A Gifted Man” on Friday (8 p.m.) stars
 Patrick Wilson  as an ambitious Manhattan surgeon persuaded by
his ex-wife to help an impoverished Bronx clinic. The ex happens
to be a ghost.  Wilson’s unsentimental performance keeps the fantasy
grounded. He trumps Montgomery’s mental nitpicker, by a shade.  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 