-- 
‘Buffett Rule’ for Millionaires: Easier Said Than Done

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-09-20T21:20:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/-millionaire-tax-seen-easier-said-than-done.html
Turning the “Buffett rule”
proposed yesterday by President  Barack Obama  from a political
concept into real-world tax policy aimed at the highest-earning
U.S. households will prove logistically and mathematically
difficult.  The concept, named for billionaire investor Warren Buffett,
would require Americans earning more than $1 million a year to
pay at least the same tax rate as middle-class households.
Constructing such a rule would be tricky because high earners
aren’t the only taxpayers benefiting from breaks; many middle-
income families use deductions, credits and exemptions to drive
their rates below the 17.4 percent that Buffett says he pays.  For now, the Buffett rule is less of a concrete legislative
proposal and more of a political talking point that has elicited
Republican cries of “class warfare.” Democrats defended the
idea and urged Congress to adopt it in designing a new tax
system.  “We’re not going to give the Congress a detailed proposal
for how to meet that principle because we think there are a
bunch of different ways to do that,” said Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner , adding that the details of the rule would
depend on the rest of the structure of a revamped tax code.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, the chamber’s third-
ranking Democrat, said on a conference call with reporters
yesterday that the proposal would have broad support in his
party and would be a “game-changer” in the tax debate.  ‘Defining Principle’  “It really works well as a defining principle, but I think
it works even better as an actual piece of legislation,” said
Schumer, a member of the tax-writing Finance Committee. “Let’s
draft the language and get it scored. Let’s put it on the floor
and let’s have a vote.”  It’s undetermined how much money the proposal would raise
if applied to the current tax code or how many people would be
affected. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
said in a floor speech yesterday that 22,000 Americans have
incomes exceeding $1 million a year and pay less than 15 percent
of their income in taxes. About  433,000 households  have income
exceeding $1 million, according to the  Tax Policy Center , a
nonpartisan Washington research group.  “Middle-class families shouldn’t pay higher taxes than
millionaires and billionaires,” Obama said at the White House
yesterday. “ Warren Buffett ’s secretary shouldn’t pay a higher
tax rate than Warren Buffett. There is no justification for
it.”  The example that Obama gave during his speech illustrated
the difficulty of applying the Buffett principle in practice. He
said that a teacher earning $50,000 shouldn’t pay a higher tax
rate than an investor making $50 million.  Deductions and Exemptions  Obama’s example isn’t as straightforward as it appears.
Under current law, that teacher would have a maximum taxable
income of $40,500, after subtracting the standard deduction and
personal exemption. The teacher’s federal income tax would be
$6,250, or 12.5 percent of the $50,000 income.  The teacher’s tax rate, though, would be higher if payroll
taxes were included. This year, employees at that income level
pay 5.65 percent of their wages, and employers pay 7.65 percent.  The middle-income tax rate would be lower if the teacher
took advantage of the specific breaks available to middle-income
taxpayers: those for retirement savings contributions and
health-care flexible spending arrangements, and deductions for
student loan interest and out-of-pocket expenses of educators.  The tax rate would be even lower if the teacher were
married or had children, which would allow for a larger standard
deduction, personal exemptions and a  child tax credit . A married
couple with two children can earn as much as  $45,776 without
paying income taxes  this year, according to the  Tax Policy 
Center.  Complicated Arithmetic  As a result of those complexities, lawmakers trying to
write a Buffett rule would have to make some choices about how
to define a middle-income family’s earnings and tax rate.  They also face complicated arithmetic for higher-income
taxpayers. Assuming the millionaire investor received all of his
or her income from long-term  capital gains  and dividends, the
tax rate would be 15 percent, the preferential rate for
investment income.  That rate could be much lower if the investor took itemized
deductions for state and local taxes, mortgage interest and
charitable contributions. It would be higher if the investor
also had some wage income, which would be subject to a 35
percent top rate and at least some payroll taxes.  Defining Income  Writing a Buffett rule into law would require defining
income and setting a minimum rate for it, said  Roberton Williams , a senior fellow affiliated with the Tax Policy Center.  “Every time you set up something like this, you’re opening
the door for the tax lawyers to come in and get around the
attempt to raise revenues,” Williams said.  Buffett, the 81-year-old chairman and chief executive
officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said his federal tax bill
last year, or the income tax he paid and payroll taxes paid by
him and on his behalf, was $6.93 million.  “That sounds like a lot of money,” Buffett wrote in an
essay, published last month in the  New York  Times, that called
for higher taxes on millionaires. “But what I paid was only
17.4 percent of my taxable income -- and that’s actually a lower
percentage than was paid by any of the other 20 people in our
office.”  Preferential Rate  Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, said on
Bloomberg Television today that he wanted to see Buffett’s tax
return.  Several bipartisan groups, including the  fiscal commission 
appointed by Obama last year, have proposed eliminating the
preferential tax rates for capital gains as part of a tax
overhaul that also would lower rates on wage income.  That approach, rather than the calculation of a minimum
tax, might be the most straightforward way to satisfy the
Buffett principle, Williams said.  Alan Viard, a resident scholar at the  American Enterprise
Institute , a Washington group that favors smaller government,
disputed the idea that most millionaires pay lower tax rates
than the middle class.  “One reason you have a preferential rate today for
investments is because they’re already taxed at the corporate
level,” he said. “You have to consider both levels of tax.”  Minimum Tax  The Buffett rule would essentially operate as a type of
alternative minimum tax.  The AMT came into its current form in the 1986  tax-code 
overhaul. It requires taxpayers to compare their tax liability
under the regular tax code with their liability under the AMT.
Because the AMT doesn’t allow taxpayers the full benefits of the
state and local tax deduction or personal exemptions, people who
have large families or who live in high-tax states tend to be
disproportionately affected.  Congressional efforts to prevent people from legally
avoiding all taxes haven’t been successful. In 2008, the most
recent year for which data are available, 18,783 people filed
U.S. tax returns with adjusted gross incomes of at least
$200,000 and owed no taxes. That represented 0.43 percent of
high-income taxpayers, the biggest non-payer percentage in an
Internal Revenue Service study that dates to 1977.  Lawmakers could satisfy the Buffett rule by disallowing the
lower rates for capital gains and dividends under the existing
AMT, with a top rate of 28 percent, said Jeff Hamond, a former
Schumer tax aide who is now a vice president at Van Scoyoc
Associates, a Washington lobbying firm.  “That wouldn’t be simple,” he said. “But it could be a
placeholder until comprehensive  tax reform  passes, and the
richest Americans would definitely pay a higher effective rate
than the middle class.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  