-- 
Labor to Delay Rule on Fiduciary Duty: Borzi

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-09-19T16:36:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/labor-department-will-delay-rule-on-fiduciary-duty-borzi-says.html
The U.S. Labor Department is
delaying a rule designed to make investment advisers more
accountable for the advice they give to employers and
individuals in  retirement plans , Assistant Secretary of Labor
Phyllis Borzi said in a conference call today.  “We honestly weren’t as clear as we could have been and
we’re trying to fix that,” said Borzi. “We’ve also been
working closely with the White House and they’ve approved our
decision to move forward in this fashion.”  Concerns from private companies such as  Morgan Stanley (MS)  that
manage 401(k) plans or investments in IRAs and legislators
caused the Labor Department to rethink the rule. The extra time
will enable the department to strengthen and clarify this
“important consumer protection,” she said.  The Labor Department wants to expand the scope of fiduciary
responsibility to protect those saving for retirement from
conflicts of interest, such as recommending investments with
higher fees. The rule would require investment professionals who
advise employers and workers in 401(k) plans or IRAs to act in
the best interest of their clients.  “We believe the Labor Department has made the right
decision,” Kenneth Bentsen, executive vice president of public
policy and advocacy at the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, said in a statement today. “We have raised
significant concerns about the proposal and lack of cost-benefit
analysis on a rule that would affect millions of IRA holders and
plan participants.”  Fee-Based Model  The original proposal may have caused financial firms to
offer fewer investment options in retirement accounts and shift
to a fee-based model used by investment advisers, which will
raise costs, Bentsen said in July at a Washington hearing before
the House Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and
Pensions. Sifma is a lobbying group for banks and brokerages.  Fidelity Investments , based in  Boston , is the largest
provider of 401(k)s. U.S. Representative  Barney Frank  of
 Massachusetts , who is the top Democrat on the House Financial
Services Committee, said in a letter Sept. 15 to Labor Secretary
Hilda Solis that the agency should withdraw and repropose the
rule after coordinating with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The SEC has been working on rules required by the Dodd-
Frank Act that may overlap with the Labor proposal.  The revised rule will cover both 401(k) plans and IRAs,
said Borzi. “People can look for a reproposal of this
regulation at some point early next year,” she said. “That’s
my best guess.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 