-- 
Madagascar Vows to Arrest Exiled Former President Ravalomanana

-- B y   S a r a l e a   J u d i c a e l l e
-- 
2011-09-19T12:40:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/madagascar-vows-to-arrest-exiled-former-president-ravalomanana.html
Madagascar vowed to arrest exiled former
President  Marc Ravalomanana , who may return to the Indian Ocean
island country after an agreement was signed that enables him to
travel home.  Ten political groups, including a representative of
Ravalomanana, agreed on a so-called roadmap on Sept. 17 that aims
to end a 2 ½ year-long political dispute that began when Ravalomanana
was ousted by Andry Rajoelina with the support of the nation’s
military. The accord leaves Rajoelina in charge until elections are
held within a year, Voice of America reported, without citing anyone.  While the agreement allows Ravalomanana’s unconditional return
to Madagascar, an annex to the accord states that the  Southern African
Development Community , which brokered the deal, respects the
sovereignty of its member states, Justice Minister Christine Razanamahasoa said in a phone interview yesterday. “When he returns,
he will be arrested,” she said.  Rajoelina, a 37-year-old former nightclub DJ, seized power in
March 2009 in a coup that led to Madagascar’s suspension from the
15-nation SADC and the  African Union , and resulted in donors stopping
aid that made up two-thirds of state revenue. Rajoelina’s
administration issued an arrest warrant for Ravalomana last year.  Ravalomanana said in an interview with Radio  France  Intenational
before the agreement was signed that he plans to return to Madagascar
“shortly,” and said the Justice Ministry’s plan to prosecute him is
illegal.  “I am president and I can’t be judged by an ordinary court,” he
said.  Madagascar is the world’s largest vanilla grower, while oil,
nickel and titanium products have also attracted interest from
investors including Korea Resources Corp.,  Canada ’s Sherritt
International Corp., Total SA of France and Rio Tinto Plc, which
mines ilmenite, a mineral used as pigment in paint, in the southeast
of the country.  Lemur Resources Ltd., a Perth, Australia-based coal-exploration
company, said earlier today it signed an agreement with Madagascar’s
state-owned electricity company to study the development of a
coal-fired power plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saralea Judicaelle in Antananarivo via Nairobi at   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 