-- 
Madoff Trustee’s Lawsuit Seeking Damages Is ‘Clearly Wrong,’ JPMorgan Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-19T21:35:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/madoff-trustee-s-jpmorgan-suit-is-clearly-wrong-bank-says.html
The liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm is “clearly wrong” in demanding $19 billion in
damages from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  on behalf of creditors of the
 Ponzi scheme  operator, the bank said.  It has been “settled law” since the 1970s that a
bankruptcy trustee cannot assert claims belonging to creditors,
JPMorgan said in a Sept. 16 filing in U.S. District Court in
 Manhattan . Trustee Irving H. Picard defended his lawsuit against
the second-biggest U.S. bank earlier this month, saying he was
empowered by law to sue JPMorgan on behalf of the con man’s
innocent creditors.  Picard’s “argument is so clearly wrong that the trustee
did not even make it to Judge Rakoff,” the bank said, citing
Judge  Jed S. Rakoff ’s July ruling in an  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  case
that Picard can’t sue on behalf of Madoff customers using
common-law claims against parties who failed to detect the
fraud.  “The trustee and his counsel remain confident in our
position,” Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, said today in an
e-mail.  JPMorgan is trying to persuade U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  to dismiss Picard’s damage claims, along with about
$1 billion of bankruptcy and other claims. Picard is fighting
for the right to demand most of the $100 billion he is seeking
from banks and Madoff investors, after Rakoff tossed almost
$9 billion in damages sought from HSBC and feeder funds.  ‘Massive Gap’  In an amended suit, Picard alleged that New York-based
JPMorgan, Madoff’s primary banker, “did know” about the fraud
and could have stopped it by notifying regulators. In the June
suit, he more than tripled his demand for damages, making it
equal to his estimate of all principal lost by all Madoff
investors by the time the Ponzi scheme collapsed in 2008.  “Aggressive” plaintiffs often blame banks for a
depositor’s bad deeds, according to JPMorgan. Picard, though,
can’t identify any JPMorgan employee who conspired with Madoff
or discovered his scheme, even after “extensive” interviews
with bank employees, according to its filing.  “There is a massive gap between the trustee’s blustering
accusations and the facts that he has actually alleged to
support them,” JPMorgan said. “The trustee’s damages claims
demand the absurd inference that JPMorgan deliberately joined
with  Bernard Madoff  in a doomed-to-fail Ponzi scheme so that it
could earn conventional banking fees,” which were small for the
bank, it said.  The case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 1:11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 