-- 
Air Force Secretary Vows to Protect F-35, New Bomber From Cuts

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-19T18:20:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/air-force-secretary-vows-to-protect-f-35-new-bomber-from-cuts.html
Air Force  Secretary Michael Donley
called a new long-range bomber “essential” and said there is
“no alternative” to the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter as he
pledged to protect some major weapons programs from defense
spending cuts.  As the Pentagon prepares for budget cuts that may trim more
than $800 billion from anticipated defense spending over the
next decade, Donley vowed to “safeguard and defend” many of
the most costly Air Force procurement programs. They are needed
to “preserve Air Force core missions and capabilities,” he
said.  Pointing to a fighter fleet that is on average 22 years old
and a tanker force with an average age of 49 years, Donley used
a speech to the Air Force Association to lay down markers on
spending needs. He spoke at the National Harbor complex in Oxon
Hill,  Maryland , near  Washington .  “Simply put, there is no alternative to the F-35
program,” Donley said of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s most advanced
fighter jet. “It must succeed.”  The $382 billion program is designed to replace older
fighter jets for the Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps over the
next 30 years.  A new long-range bomber, Donley said, “is essential to
maintaining conventional long-range strike capabilities into the
future.”  Drones, Satellites  Donley likewise backed a modernization of Air Force tanker
jets that are decades old.  Boeing Co. (BA)  in February beat the
European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. for a contract to build
a fleet of 179 refueling tankers at a cost of more than $30
billion.  Donley also called for continued development of unmanned
drone aircraft, modernizing aging satellites, and maintaining
the so-called nuclear triad, made up of nuclear missiles
launched from land, sea and air.  He gave few hints as to where the Air Force could find
major cost savings.  Like his boss, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, Donley said
cuts to the military retirement system should be “carefully
considered,” and phased in to honor the promises made to the
current force.  While open to some reductions in personnel, Donley pledged
to maintain “an Air Force presence in each state, to include at
least one active-duty, Reserve, or Air National Guard unit.”  He also pledged to sustain the Air Force component of the
U.S. Special Operations Command, and vowed not to “consolidate
Air Force depots to fewer than three.”  The Air Force now maintains depots at Hill Air Force Base
in  Utah , Tinker Air Force Base in  Oklahoma  and Robins Air Force
Base in  Georgia , said Air Force spokeswoman Vicki Stein.  While no final decisions have been made, Donley said, “a
number of alternative plans and options are being considered,”
he said. “And it’s safe to say that every single line of the
budget is under scrutiny.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  