-- 
Airbus Looks at Building 50 A320s a Month as Forecast Is Raised

-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-09-19T14:58:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/airbus-sees-demand-rising-to-27-800-jetliners-over-next-20-years.html
Airbus SAS said it’s looking at
accelerating production of its single-aisle A320 series to 50
planes a month after projections for Asian economic growth
prompted a 7.5 percent increase in its 20-year sales forecast.  Chief Operating Officer  John Leahy  said he’s “confident”
Airbus will soon decide to switch to building 44 narrowbody
planes a month, two more than the level planned for the end of
2012, and that it’s also “studying” the still higher rate.  Airbus forecasts that 27,800 jets valued at $3.5 trillion
will be required between now and 2030, including 19,200 single-
aisle examples, according to its latest Global Market Forecast
released today. U.S. rival  Boeing Co. (BA)  sees a need for 30,900
planes over the same period and has said it will need to build
60 narrowbodies a month by the decade's end to meet demand.  “There’s always the possibility we could go higher,” Leahy
said in an interview at a presentation in  London . “But there’s
no timeframe and we’re not looking at going beyond 50. I think
the 60 Boeing’s talking about is ridiculous.”  Single-aisle planes will account for 40 percent of new
aircraft by value and 69 percent by units over the next 20
years, the European company said. About 6,900 widebody planes
will also be required, plus 1,781 so-called very large aircraft,
such as the Airbus  A380 superjumbo , it estimates.  Bank Concern  Airbus is concerned that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis may
hurt the ability of airlines to raise bank financing for
purchases in the short term, Leahy said. Still, the Toulouse,
France-based manufacturer has financing commitments for all
deliveries this year, and even events such as the Sept. 11,
2001, terror attacks amount only to “minor blips” in the long-
term growth trend, he added.  “The aviation sector is expected to remain resilient to
cyclical economic conditions, as in the past,” Airbus said in a
 statement , adding that orders will be spurred by growth in
emerging markets, greater urbanization, increasing wealth,
replacement of older planes and expansion of discount carriers.  Higher fuel prices are aiding immediate demand as carriers
switch to more-efficient models. Since offering new engines for
the A320, a version it’s dubbing the neo, last December, Airbus
has garnered orders and commitments for more than 1,200 planes.
Chicago-based Boeing has won almost 500 commitments since
agreeing to do likewise with the 737 in July.  Airbus, a unit of European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.
and the world’s biggest maker of commercial aircraft, ahead of
Boeing, predicts that passenger traffic will grow by 4.8 percent
a year on average over the next two decades, with the global
passenger fleet more than doubling to 31,500 planes.  China  Plant  Asia will account for 34 percent of new jets, and Europe
and  North America  will each take 22 percent, Airbus said, with
growth led by long-haul routes. Traffic will quadruple in  India 
and triple in China, where Leahy said Airbus’s joint-venture
plant in Tianjin will make A320neos in the future.  Airbus’s prediction for widebody planes represents an 11
percent increase from the forecast published in December and the
single-aisle figure is up 7.4 percent.  The prediction for very large aircraft amounts to an
increase of just 43 planes, or 2.5 percent, from the earlier
outlook, and any stretched version of the double-decker A380
will have to wait until the end of the decade, Airbus said.
Boeing sees less need for very large planes, 45 percent of which
will operate in the Asia-Pacific, according to its rival.  Randy Tinseth , Boeing’s marketing chief, said separately 
today that Airbus’s view of demand for very-large aircraft is high
because the company underestimates sales of smaller planes, its
analysis of demand for which usually lags behind production.  “We view our own forecast as driving our production plans
and helping to assist our suppliers,” he said of the U.S.
company’s ramp-up strategy while speaking at the ISTAT aircraft-
trading conference in Barcelona.  Airbus’s forecast also includes 900 newly built freighters.
Two thirds of the world’s cargo planes are older passenger
models that have been converted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Barcelona, Spain, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  