-- 
Taiwan Dollar Falls to Seven-Month Low on Europe; Bonds Advance

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-19T08:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/taiwan-dollar-falls-to-seven-month-low-on-europe-bonds-advance.html
Taiwan ’s dollar fell to a seven-
month low after European officials failed to reach a plan to
settle the region’s debt crisis, prompting foreign funds to
favor safer assets than emerging-market stocks.  Foreign funds sold $152 million more Taiwan shares than
they bought today, bringing this year’s net sales to $9.2
billion, exchange data show.  Europe ’s finance chiefs, who
wrapped up two days of talks in Wroclaw,  Poland , on Sept. 17,
said that the 18-month debt crisis leaves no room for tax cuts
or extra spending to spur an economy on the brink of stagnation.
European Union and International Monetary Fund inspectors speak
today with Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos to judge
whether the nation is eligible for its next aid payment.  “The crisis around  Greece  is affecting foreign
investors,” said Tarsicio Tong, a Taipei-based currency trader
at Union Bank of Taiwan. “They are redeeming their overseas
investments, especially in  Asia . They have to keep cash on hand.
They expect economic growth to slow down.”  Taiwan’s dollar weakened 0.7 percent to NT$29.78 against
its U.S. counterpart at the 4 p.m. local time close, according
to Taipei Forex Inc. That’s the weakest level since Feb. 25.  Export orders, an indication of shipments in the next one
to three months, rose 7 percent in August from a year earlier,
compared with an increase of 11.1 percent the previous month,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey before a
report tomorrow.  The yield on the 2 percent bonds due July 2016 slid two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 0.965 percent in
Taipei, according to Gretai Securities Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  