-- 
Funds May Keep Selling Malaysia Even Amid Reforms, CIMB Says

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-09-19T09:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/malaysian-reforms-unlikely-to-ease-overseas-selling-cimb-says.html
Overseas investors who sold the
most Malaysian stocks in at least two years in August may sell
more shares even as the government pledges reforms to attract
foreign capital, CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. said.  Worsening global economic turmoil may cause investors to
keep unloading the nation’s equities, according to Terence Wong,
head of research at Kuala Lumpur-based CIMB, which was ranked
third for Malaysian research in Institutional Investor’s 2010
Asian poll. Promises by Prime Minister Najib Razak to abolish
laws allowing the government to detain citizens without trial as
well as easing media rules will not be enough to boost
confidence, Wong said.  “It’s certainly positive news but foreign investors’
decision to invest in Malaysia or any country for that matter
has now more to do with short-term developments in  Europe  and
U.S.,” Wong said. “It’s good news for the longer term but
unlikely to affect shorter-term investment decisions.”  Overseas funds sold 3.8 billion ringgit ($1.2 billion) of
 Malaysian shares  last month, the most since at least October
2009, after four consecutive months of inflows, according to
data compiled by the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange.  The benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index has slumped 11
percent since June 30, headed for its biggest quarterly drop
since the period ended December 2008, amid concerns Europe’s
debt crisis will spread and as the  U.S. economy  showed signs of
faltering. The index dropped 1.2 percent at the 5 p.m. close in
Kuala Lumpur to 1,413.12, the lowest level since Aug. 27, 2010.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has lost 17 percent this
quarter.  ‘Bearish Mood’  The Malaysian stock gauge, down 11 percent from a record on
July 8, trades at 13.7 times estimated profit, the lowest level
since April 2009. That’s higher than the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index’s 10 times.  “If the bearish mood continues, there will be more
selling,” Wong said in an interview. “We’re playing catch-up
with the other markets; we’re among the most expensive in the
region.” The analyst cut on Sept. 5 his year-end forecast for
 Malaysia ’s stock index to 1,580 from 1,700.  The government will abolish the Internal Security Act and
the Emergency Ordinance to ensure people can’t be arrested for
political affiliations, Prime Minister Najib said on Sept. 15 in
a speech broadcast on national television. The government will
also ease restrictions on media licenses and public assembly, he
said.  Najib, 58, is taking the measures two months after street
protests that led to the arrest of more than 1,600 people and a
13 percentage point drop in his public approval level from last
year. He has eased some rules to encourage investment, including
doing away with a requirement that foreign companies investing
in Malaysia and locally listed businesses set aside 30 percent
of their Malaysian equity for indigenous investors.  Right Direction  “This is a step in the right direction, moving more
towards international standards that foreign investors are
comfortable with,” said Alan Richardson, who helps oversee
about $82 billion as a  money manager  at Samsung Asset Management
in  Singapore .  The net foreign outflow from Malaysia in August accounted
for 31 percent of the total from emerging markets  Asia  excluding
 China , suggesting that the  Kuala Lumpur  market “suffered the
brunt of the selling,” Tan Ting Min, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, wrote in a report on Sept. 12.  Before the sell-off, foreign funds piled into Malaysia’s
stock market, betting on Malaysia’s efforts to bolster economic
growth. About 6.7 billion ringgit of foreign funds flowed into
Malaysian stocks from April to July, according to stock exchange
data.  Security Act  Prime Minister Najib’s government unveiled an economic
transformation program in September 2010 that was aimed at
attracting investment. The plan includes $444 billion of
programs this decade ranging from mass rail to nuclear power,
led by private and government-linked companies. On July 8, Najib
broke ground on a 48 billion-ringgit mass rail network aimed at
easing traffic congestion in Kuala Lumpur.  The Internal Security Act was introduced in 1960 in the
wake of an armed insurgency by Communist rebels, giving the
police wide-ranging powers to detain suspects indefinitely. It
will be replaced by a law that incorporates more judicial
oversight and limits police powers to detain people for
preventive reasons, Najib said.  While Najib’s sweeping changes to security laws are among
the biggest since independence in 1957, he didn’t revisit
earlier promises to roll back policies that favor the ethnic-
Malay majority in housing, university places, government
contracts and shares of publicly traded companies.  “It doesn’t have anything to do with the stock market;
it’s already a fairly advanced economy and I’m not sure if
anything political would be a huge catalyst,” said  Mark Matthews , Singapore-based head of research for Asia at Bank
Julius Baer & Co., which manages about $205 billion in client
assets globally. “It certainly won’t change perceptions of
Malaysia in and of itself, but if it is part of an overall trend
of a more open-minded stance in politics, maybe it is meaningful
in some way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  