-- 
Malaysia Ringgit, Bonds Slide as Europe Woes Damp Risk Appetite

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-09-19T08:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/malaysia-ringgit-bonds-slide-as-europe-woes-damp-risk-appetite.html
Malaysia’s ringgit fell the most in
nearly four months after European finance chiefs failed to come
up with a plan to stem the region’s debt crisis.  The currency sank to its weakest level since December as
European Union and International Monetary Fund officials assess
whether  Greece ’s budget measures will qualify the nation for
another tranche of bailout aid. Malaysian bonds fell on
speculation global funds will cut their holdings of local-
currency debt from an all-time high.  “The market is scared of the contagion risk, not just the
Greece situation alone,” said Ahmad Zubaidi Samse, a foreign-
exchange trader at Bank Muamalat Malaysia Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .
“The ringgit is reflecting that sentiment.”  The ringgit fell 1.1 percent from its Sept. 15 closing
level to 3.1143 per dollar as of 4:32 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Local financial markets
were closed on Sept. 16 for a holiday.  The currency has declined 3.1 percent since June, after
rallying in the previous nine quarters. It reached a 14-year
high of 2.9335 per dollar on July 27 and Zubaidi said the
ringgit may weaken to 3.13 should sentiment worsen.  Europe ’s finance chiefs wrapped up two days of talks in
Wroclaw,  Poland , at the weekend. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  and Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
rejected using the  European Central Bank  to boost the euro-area
rescue fund.  Swaps, Bonds  Malaysia’s one-year onshore swap rate, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, fell 2.5 basis points to
3.195 percent. It has dropped 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, since Bank Negara Malaysia halted its policy
tightening by keeping the benchmark  interest rate  at 3 percent
on July 7.  Malaysia’s 10-year bonds declined as the government
prepares to sell new seven-year benchmark notes later this month.
The yield on the 4.16 percent debt due July 2021 rose seven
basis points to a seven-week high of 3.8 percent, according to
Amanah Butler Sdn.  Overseas investors boosted their holdings of local-currency
debt by 1.1 percent in July to 186.5 billion ringgit, according
to data published by the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  