-- 
Alkermes Signs Contract Manufacturing Deal for Its Irish Plant

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-09-19T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/alkermes-signs-contract-manufacturing-deal-for-its-irish-plant.html
Alkermes Plc said it will
manufacture drugs for “one of the world’s top 10 pharmaceutical
companies” in a deal that may generate from
$15 million to $20 million in annual revenue by 2016.  Alkermes will make the finished product in Athlone,
Ireland, at a plant acquired through its merger with Elan Drug
Technologies, the company said today in an e-mailed statement.
Alkermes, whose headquarters officially move to Dublin from
Waltham,  Massachusetts , today, declined to name the customer.  Alkermes bought EDT, a drug technology and formulation
company, from Dublin-based Elan Corp. for about $1 billion. The
deal was completed Sept. 16. The two are a “complimentary fit”
as Alkermes shifts to discovering and developing its own drugs,
Chief Executive Officer Richard Pops said in an interview.  “We thought under our stewardship it could grow and
flourish even more,” Pops said of the former Elan company.  The combined company has more than 450 employees in Ireland
and 1,200 worldwide. Pops said there won’t be any immediate
changes to the workforce in Ireland, and he expects future
growth there. Alkermes also has a research and development
center in Waltham and manufacturing facilities in Gainesville,
 Georgia , and Wilmington,  Ohio .  The company will be looking to purchase “drug-product
opportunities” and not technologies for delivering medicines to
their targets, he said. The company’s drug-delivery technologies
can make therapies for chronic diseases such as central nervous
system disorders, where patients must take medicines over a long
period of time, more effective, he said.  Seeking Partners  Alkermes is looking for partners for its treatment for
opioid-induced constipation and a once-monthly schizophrenia
medicine, both of which are still in development. Talks are
“going well” and the company isn’t in a hurry as they await
data from pivotal trials, Pops said.  “Here we have novel, patented drugs in later stages of
development and they’re unpartnered,” he said. “We think we’ll
have the pick of the litter,” in terms of partners once the
data become available.  For fiscal 2012, which ends in March, Pops said he still
expects revenue to increase to $460 million to $480 million from
$450 million this year. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, excluding one-time items, will be
$70 million to $90 million, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 