-- 
Alliance Trust Buys Lloyds Following Vickers Proposals, CEO Says

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-19T10:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/alliance-trust-buys-lloyds-following-vickers-proposals-ceo-says.html
Alliance Trust Plc (ATST) , the U.K.’s
biggest closed-end investment fund, bought  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  shares on the expectation that it will benefit from proposed
rule changes for British banks, according to Chief Executive
Officer Katherine Garrett-Cox.  Alliance made the purchase in the last few months, part of
the fund’s preference for large companies with low valuations,
Garrett-Cox said in a telephone interview today. John Vickers
chairman of the Independent Commission on Banking, last week
asked the British government to decide on asset sales beyond the
632 branch-disposal already agreed.  Lloyds, which doesn’t have an investment bank, “has taken
a lot of pain,” Garrett-Cox said. “It’s likely to be a winner
out of the report that came out last week. When these stocks
have already borne so much pain, the greater risk is not owning
any.” She did not disclose how many LLoyds shares were bought.  Lloyds, the U.K.’s largest mortgage lender, has fallen by
46 percent since CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio took over in March, as
the government downgraded growth estimates for the U.K. economy
and the European sovereign debt crisis worsened. The bank has
declined 89 percent since its high in February 2007.  Alliance also holds firms that benefit from growth in  Asia ,
such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Rio Tinto Plc. (RIO)   The fund’s share price rose 3.1 percent in the six months
to July 31, beating the FTSE All-World Index, which dropped 0.8
percent in the period. Alliance is “on track” for its 45th
consecutive year of dividend increases, Garrett-Cox said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 