-- 
Man Group Names Mercurio First Stock Portfolio Manager in Asia

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-09-19T08:11:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/man-group-names-mercurio-first-stock-portfolio-manager-in-asia.html
Man Group Plc (EMG)  hired its first Asia-
based portfolio manager focused on stocks as the world’s biggest
hedge fund moves to expand its investments in the region.  David Mercurio has been appointed head of Asia Equity and
co-head of Global Equity Strategies, London-based Man Group said
in a statement today. Mercurio joins the London-based hedge fund
from the Government of Singapore Investment Corp. sovereign
wealth fund, where he was a senior portfolio manager.  Man Group, which manages $71 billion, is banking on the
fact that an on-the-ground investment manager will provide an
edge in researching Asian companies and evaluating the prospects
of foreign firms doing business in the fast-growing region.
China’s gross domestic product rose 9.7 percent last year and
Singapore’s surged 11 percent, outpacing the 2 percent gain in
the U.S.  “Being local really gives you a strong advantage,” said
Pierre LaGrange, co-founder of GLG Partners Inc., the London-
based hedge fund that Man Group bought last year for $1.6
billion. “Local contacts and local information really dominate
investment analysis.”  LaGrange, who manages the GLG European Long-Short Fund, is
taking on the additional title of chairman of Man  Asia , the
company said in the statement. His hedge fund, which invests in
stocks, has almost tripled over the past decade, while the Stoxx
600 has fallen 23 percent.  Mercurio, who reports to LaGrange, will be based in  Hong
Kong . He joined the Government of Singapore Investment Corp. in
2001 from Bankers Trust  Australia .  Man Group’s biggest hedge fund is Man AHL Diversified Plc,
a computer-driven investment strategy that oversees $24 billion.
Man Group established its first office in Asia 15 years ago and
the region accounted for 25 percent of the company’s total
assets under management as of March, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  