-- 
Marathon Asset Management Names Three as Partners at Hedge Fund

-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 
2011-09-19T16:15:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/marathon-asset-management-names-three-as-partners-at-hedge-fund.html
Marathon Asset Management LP, a $10
billion hedge fund based in  New York , named Stuart Goldberg,
Jake Hyde and Andrew Springer partners, according to an e-mailed
statement.  Goldberg and Springer are senior portfolio managers and co-
heads of the firm’s structured credit group, which focuses on
investments in areas such as asset-backed securities and
residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. Hyde is
senior portfolio manager in Marathon’s corporate credit group.  Marathon, which was founded in 1998 by Bruce Richards and
Louis Hanover, last month started a $100 million fund to take
advantage of the European debt crisis, a person familiar with
the firm said in August. Marathon told investors in mid-June
that the firm was looking at portfolios of $1 billion or more of
real estate and corporate loans from banks in  Portugal , Ireland,
 Spain , the United Kingdom and Italy, according to a presentation
sent to clients.  “The expanded leadership team helps position the firm to
take full advantage of the global opportunities we are currently
focused on,” Hanover said today in the statement.  Before joining Marathon, Goldberg was a managing director
and head of the ABS trading desk at Citigroup Inc., according to
a biography provided by Marathon. He earlier was a trader at
Cowen Group Inc., as well as at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC
and at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette International, the firm
said. He has an undergraduate degree in economics from Yeshiva
University in  New York City .  SUNY Graduate  Springer previously worked at Guggenheim Capital Markets
LLC and at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, where he was a director
and head of CMBS trading and securitization, according to a
biography provided by Marathon. He has an undergraduate degree
in economics from the  State University of New York  at
Binghampton.  Hyde, who has been at Marathon since 2007, was formerly a
managing director on the high-yield trading desk at Citigroup
Inc., according to a biography provided by Marathon. A 1993
graduate of  Georgetown University  in  Washington , Hyde began his
career at Salomon Brothers Inc. as a mortgage trader, the firm
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  