-- 
ArcelorMittal’s First Indian Steel Mill May Beat Posco Plant

-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-09-20T15:57:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/arcelormittal-s-first-indian-steel-plant-may-beat-posco-project.html
ArcelorMittal (MT)  may beat  South
Korea ’s Posco to become the first overseas steelmaker to build a
plant in  India , with Karnataka state authorities set to hand
over land for the $6.3 billion project in the next six months.  The government of the  southern province , where
ArcelorMittal aims to build a 6 million-metric-ton-a-year plant,
has acquired more than three-quarters of the 4,000-acre site in
the Bellary district from farmers, state Industries Commissioner
Maheshwar Rao said in a phone interview. Posco, also planning a
6 million-ton plant in the state, has yet to pick a location,
according to state Industries Minister Murugesh Rudrappa Nirani.  ArcelorMittal and Posco, which have $32 billion of planned
projects in the eastern Indian states of Orissa and Jharkhand,
have waited more than six years because of delays in securing
approvals and land. While they wait, steel use rises, outpacing
global demand. Indian consumption may climb as much as 9 percent
in the next two to three years, while world demand may remain
short of peak levels until 2013 as construction projects slow in
developed nations,  Fitch Ratings  said in a July 13 report.  “ArcelorMittal is trying to benefit from the Indian  steel
industry , forecast to continue growing in the coming years,”
said Veronique Colas, a financial analyst with a “buy” rating
on the stock at Paris-based Alphavalue SAS. “India has
ambitious plans for large-scale expansion of power supplies and
electricity grids, roads and railways, and all of these are
large users of steel.”  Shares Gain  ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steel producer, rose 0.9
percent to 12.83 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close in Amsterdam. The
stock has dropped 52 percent this year, compared with a 17
percent decline in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Shares
of Posco, the world’s third-biggest steelmaker, retreated 0.2
percent to 413,000 won in  Seoul .  In June last year, Karnataka invited steelmakers to set up
mills in the state, aiming to exploit its iron-ore resources and
compete with Orissa and Jharkhand, where projects including
steel and power plants have stalled because of protests by
villagers unwilling to vacate land.  Karnataka received interest from ArcelorMittal, Posco and
five other companies for projects valued at a combined 1.42
trillion rupees ($30 billion). While ArcelorMittal faced no
opposition from farmers, the government asked Posco to select a
new location after villagers at an earlier site at Gadag raised
objections,  Press Trust of India  said on Aug. 17, citing Nirani.  ‘Promising’ Project  “The ArcelorMittal project is one of the most promising
greenfield projects announced last year,” Rao said on Sept. 17
from Bangalore. “There’s been no trouble getting the land and
we don’t expect any in future. The price has been fixed and we
have the consent of most of the farmers.”  A bill aimed at expediting land acquisition in India and
increasing compensation to farmers was approved by the cabinet
on Sept. 5 and introduced to the lower house on Sept. 7. The
bill has been referred to parliament’s standing committee on
rural development, which will prepare a report in three months.  “The proposed laws will sharply increase the cost for
private buyers and many of the projects may become unviable
depending on the area and price of land,” said  Niraj Shah , an
analyst with Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd. “I don’t think
the bill will be passed anytime soon as it will require the
consent of all states.”  Demand Outlook Cut  India’s steel demand, which was forecast by the government
to expand 12 percent this fiscal year, grew 1.3 percent in the
first five months. The Steel Ministry has cut its consumption
growth forecast for the year through March to 6 percent as
soaring interest rates damp purchases of cars and homes and
delay public-works projects.  Karnataka is among the nation’s top iron-ore producing
regions. The provincial government in July 2010 banned overseas
shipments of ore to retain the raw material for local
steelmakers. While the  Supreme Court  ended the ban on April 5,
exports remained halted following probes into illegal mining.  ArcelorMittal may still have to overcome other hurdles in
Karnataka. The company is seeking approval to mine  iron ore  at
Donimalai in Bellary for its proposed plant, according to data
on the Mines Ministry’s website. India’s top court on Aug. 26
banned extraction of the ore in two Karnataka districts,
extending curbs placed on mining in Bellary region on July 29.  “We are making slow progress in all the three states, but
I would say that Karnataka is making better progress in terms of
land acquisitions,” ArcelorMittal Chairman  Lakshmi Mittal  said
in a teleconference on July 27. “But there is still lot of work
to be done on mining and environment approvals, and a lot of
approvals are still pending.”  Local Opposition  A $12 billion mill planned by  Posco (005490)  in Orissa and two
projects valued at $10 billion each by ArcelorMittal in Orissa
and neighboring Jharkhand have languished since 2005. While
Posco got final approval for its plant in May, it struggled to
acquire the land after protests from farmers. Local opposition
also prompted ArcelorMittal to relocate its project to a
different district in Jharkhand.  Posco is negotiating with the Orissa government to renew a
five-year agreement that lapsed in June last year. While the
state acquired about 2,000 acres for Posco’s plant, the process
had to be halted in June after objections from villagers.  The Indian government proposes to spend about $1 trillion
in the five years through 2017 to upgrade the country’s roads,
ports and power networks. India is  Asia ’s fastest-growing major
economy after  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 