-- 
Canadian Stocks Rise as Gold Gains on Italian Credit-Rating Cut

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-09-20T20:39:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/arianne-resources-magna-international-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose for the first
time in three days as gold companies advanced after Standard &
Poor’s cut  Italy ’s credit rating and financial companies gained
on speculation the U.S. will begin a new stimulus strategy.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s second-largest producer by
market value, climbed 5.2 percent as the metal rose.  Royal Bank
of Canada (RY) ,  Canada ’s biggest lender by assets, increased 0.8
percent as the U.S.  Federal Open Market Committee  began a two-
day meeting in  Washington . Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.,
the world’s largest fertilizer producer by market value, fell
3.1 percent after an analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. said the U.S.
is more likely to repeal ethanol mandates.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index gained 37.84
points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,209.88.  “There’s speculation the  Federal Reserve  as they meet
today and tomorrow will do something more on the monetary
front,” Murray Leith, a  money manager  at Odlum Brown Ltd. in
 Vancouver , said in a telephone interview. The firm oversees
about C$7.5 billion ($7.6 billion). “With the stress in  Europe 
still there, that’s the backdrop the gold bulls like.”  Canada’s stock benchmark has retreated 4.4 percent this
month as energy and financial stocks have fallen on concern the
European debt crisis will jeopardize the global economic
recovery. The S&P/TSX is set to drop for a seventh straight
month, the longest streak since 1984.  Gold stocks climbed after S&P reduced Italy’s credit rating
to A from A+, citing weak economic growth, a “fragile”
government and rising borrowing costs. The metal rallied 1.7
percent after dropping 2 percent yesterday.  Precious Metal  Goldcorp increased 5.2 percent to C$52.62.  Yamana Gold
Inc. (YRI) , Canada’s fourth-largest gold company by market value,
surged 5.6 percent to C$16.68.  Iamgold Corp. (IMG) , which operates in
West Africa,  South America  and  Quebec , jumped 5.5 percent to a
record C$23.17.  Romarco Minerals Inc. (R) , which is developing a gold mine in
 South Carolina , soared 12 percent to C$1.16 after saying the
U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers will hold a hearing on the mine’s
environmental-impact statement next month. The shares had closed
at a two-year low yesterday.  The Fed will decide to replace short-term Treasuries in its
portfolio with long-term bonds to try to further reduce bond
yields, 71 percent of economists in a Bloomberg survey said. The
central bank’s Federal Open Market Committee is to issue a
statement on its plans tomorrow.  Royal Bank advanced 0.8 percent to C$46.95. Insurer Fairfax
Financial Holdings, climbed 3.1 percent to C$385.  Great-West
Lifeco Inc. (GWO) , Canada’s second-largest insurer, increased 1.1
percent to C$20.66.  Potash Corp. fell 3.1 percent to C$51.72 after Charles Neivert, an analyst at Dahlman Rose, said the corn-price level
needed to spur the U.S. to eliminate laws that require ethanol
in gasoline may be lower than previously thought. Livestock
farmers are concerned the ethanol mandate is pushing up corn
prices, Neivert wrote in a note to clients.  Forecast Cut  An index of base-metals and coal producers closed at a one-
year low as copper dropped after closing at the lowest since
November yesterday. Industrial metals declined after the
 International Monetary Fund  cut its growth forecast for the U.S.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s largest company in the
industry, lost 4.2 percent to C$36.11.  First Quantum Minerals
Ltd. (FM) , the country’s second-biggest publicly traded copper
producer, decreased 7.6 percent to C$17.94, extending its two-
day plunge to 15 percent, the most since 2008.  Capstone Mining
Corp. (CS) , which produces base metals in Mexico and Canada, sank 6.3
percent to C$2.54.  Exploration Orbite VSPA Inc. (ORT/A) , which is developing an
alumina project in Quebec and extraction technology, soared 22
percent from a seven-month low to C$2.17 a day after filing a
prospectus for a share offering. Had it not done so by today, it
would have had to issue more equity, diluting the stakes of
existing shareholders, Frederic Berard, a company spokesman,
said in an e-mail message.  BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  fell 3.6 percent
to C$22.60 after  Mike Abramsky , an analyst at Royal Bank, cut
his price estimate on the company’s U.S.-traded shares to $29
from $35. RIM must improve its products, marketing, governance
and credibility with investors, Abramsky said in a note to
clients.  Directory publisher Yellow Media Inc. plunged 18 percent to
55 Canadian cents, a record low. Shares of the Verdun, Quebec-
based company have tumbled 91 percent this year on concern the
company will be unable to regain profitability as fewer people
use printed phone books.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  