-- 
Yankees Reliever Mariano Rivera Sets Major League Saves Record With 602nd

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-19T22:38:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/mariano-rivera-gets-career-record-602nd-save-in-yankees-victory-over-twins.html
Mariano Rivera  got his 602nd career
save to set a Major League Baseball record in the  New York
Yankees ’ 6-4 win against the  Minnesota  Twins.  With Boston’s 6-5 loss to the  Baltimore Orioles  at Fenway
Park, the Yankees lead the Red Sox by 5 1/2 games with 10 to
play in the American League East division. Boston’s advantage in
the wild-card race is down to 1 1/2 games over the  Tampa Bay
Rays .  Rivera surpassed Trevor Hoffman as the saves leader when he
struck out Minnesota’s Chris Parmelee for a perfect ninth inning
at Yankee Stadium in New York. After his teammates greeted him
in the infield to celebrate, Rivera returned to the mound and
tipped his cap to the fans during an extended standing ovation.  “For the first time in my career, I’m on the mound alone.
There’s nobody behind me, nobody in front of me,” Rivera said
in a news conference. “I can’t describe that feeling. It was
priceless.”  Rivera’s save, his 43rd this season, helped  New York  hang
on after starting pitcher  A.J. Burnett  gave up four runs before
being pulled in the fifth inning.  Curtis Granderson  hit a two-run home run in the first
inning to open the scoring for New York. It was his 41st of the
season, bringing him within one of the MLB lead held by  Jose Bautista  of the  Toronto Blue Jays .  Burnett Falters  Burnett struck out seven batters over the first three
innings as the Yankees built a 5-0 advantage. He then allowed a
home run in the fourth by Parmelee and a two-run shot in the
fifth by Michael Cuddyer before being pulled after giving up a
double to Parmelee that led to Minnesota’s fourth run.  Cory Wade (6-1) pitched 1 2/3 innings to earn the win,
while Scott Diamond (1-5) took the loss for Minnesota.  The  Red Sox  face the Orioles in the second game of a
double-header tonight, with John Lackey pitching for the Red Sox
and Brian Matusz starting for the Orioles.  At the beginning of the month, the Red Sox had a 1 1/2-game
lead in the AL East and a nine-game advantage over the Rays.
They’re 4-14 since then.  J.J. Hardy, Robert Andino and Nolan Reimold had home runs
for Baltimore against Kyle Weiland, who allowed five earned runs
in 4 2/3 innings to take the loss. Jeremy Guthrie (9-17) pitched
six innings to earn the win, allowing a home run by Darnell McDonald.  40-Save Average  Rivera was signed by the Yankees in 1990 as a free agent
from  Panama  and has spent 17 seasons in the major leagues. The
right-hander has averaged 40 saves a season since taking over as
the Yankees’ closer in 1997.  Now that he’s passed Hoffman, who retired in January,
Rivera may hold the record for an extended time. No other
pitcher has more than 500 saves, and 36-year-old Francisco Cordero of the  Cincinnati Reds  leads all active players other
than Rivera with 323.  “That means you’re old,” Rivera said of the mark. “It’s
a blessing. I never thought that I’d be doing this for so many
years and be able to accomplish the record.”  A 12-time All-Star, Rivera has one season remaining on a
two-year, $30 million contract he signed with the Yankees during
the offseason, and his statistical performance has shown few
signs of decline as he ages. Rivera had a 1.75 earned run
average over the last four seasons, through Sept. 18.  Rivera has had eight seasons with at least 40 saves, while
he and Eric Gagne are the only relievers with two 50-save
campaigns.  Postseason Records  For his career, Rivera has a 75-57 record with a 2.22 ERA.
His postseason statistics may be even better.  In helping the Yankees win five World Series titles, he’s
totaled a record 42 postseason saves, more than twice as many as
any other pitcher. He has an 8-1 record and 0.71 ERA in a record
94 career playoff appearances.  The son of a fisherman, Rivera’s success has come
predominantly with two pitches -- a sinker and a bat-breaking
cut fastball, which he learned to throw in a 1997 warm-up
session and has called a gift from God.  Hoffman played 18 seasons, all but two with the  San Diego
Padres . He pitched in 12 postseason games, recording four saves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Sillup
at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 