-- 
Asian Currencies Decline on Concern Europe’s Debt Crisis to Damage Exports

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-19T08:35:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/asian-currencies-decline-on-concern-europe-s-debt-crisis-to-damage-exports.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by
 South Korea ’s won, as investors cut their holdings of emerging-
market assets on concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will
slow global economic growth, hurting the region’s exports.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index dropped to its
lowest level since March after European policy makers failed to
introduce a plan to stem the region’s debt crisis. Finance
chiefs from the euro region said last week the situation leaves
no room for tax cuts or extra spending to spur their economies.
Global funds sold $1.6 billion more South Korean, Taiwanese and
Indonesian stocks than they bought last week, exchange data
show.  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
traded currencies excluding the yen, declined 0.8 percent to
116.71 as of 4:06 p.m. in  Hong Kong . The won plunged 2.2 percent
to 1,137.07 per dollar,  Indonesia ’s rupiah slumped 1.5 percent
to 8,933 and Malaysia’s ringgit dropped 1.1 percent to 3.1135,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India ’s rupee slid 1.1
percent to 47.81.  “When investors don’t have confidence in the European
situation, they try to hold U.S. dollars and try not to expose
themselves to riskier assets,” said Amonthep Chawla, a Bangkok-
based market analyst at Kasikornbank Pcl. “Investors are
waiting for policies that would help to rescue European
countries.”  Indonesia is preparing a stimulus package that it may
implement in the first half of 2012 should the global economy
deteriorate and hurt growth, the government said Sept. 15. The
risks to growth have increased as the economic problems in
 Europe  and the U.S. have worsened, Bank of Thailand Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul said the same day.  Take Steps  The won weakened to a six-month low. The authorities will
take steps to stabilize the currency market if it spots “herd-
behavior,” the  finance ministry  said in a report to parliament
today. The won should reflect economic fundamentals and market
supply and demand, it said. Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said
the won’s recent declines will likely add more pressure on
import prices.  “Uncertainties regarding Europe’s debt crisis make it
difficult to take a strong one-sided bet,” said Kim Seong Soo,
a Seoul-based currency trader with Kyongnam Bank.  The rupiah traded near a seven-month low as the MSCI Asia-
Pacific Excluding Japan Index of stocks snapped a two-day
advance. Overseas investors cut their holdings of Indonesian
 government bonds  by 2.1 percent to 245.92 trillion rupiah ($27.7
billion) in the first three days of last week, debt management
office data show. Foreign funds sold $411 million more local
shares than they bought last week, according to exchange data.  Export Orders  “The market is cautious on what is going to happen in the
euro zone,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. in  Singapore . “That is keeping Asian currencies
under pressure including the rupiah. Bank Indonesia has been
active to smooth the flows in the currency.”  The ringgit fell to its weakest level since December as
European Union and International Monetary Fund officials assess
whether  Greece ’s budget measures would qualify the nation for
another tranche of bailout aid.  “The market is scared of the contagion risk, not just the
Greece situation alone,” said Ahmad Zubaidi Samse, a foreign-
exchange trader at Bank Muamalat  Malaysia  Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .
“The ringgit is reflecting that sentiment.”  Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.7 percent to NT$29.78 against the
greenback before a report tomorrow that economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predict will show growth in export orders, an
indication of shipments in the next one to three months, slowed
to 7 percent in August from a year earlier compared with 11.1
percent the previous month.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso weakened 0.4 percent to
43.463 per dollar and Thailand’s baht declined 0.3 percent to
30.46.  China ’s yuan dropped 0.05 percent to 6.3869.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  