-- 
Asia Stocks Fall on Concern European Debt Crisis Will Slow Economic Growth

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-19T10:20:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/asia-stocks-decline-in-concern-u-s-europe-woes-will-slow-economic-growth.html
Asian stocks fell after European
policy makers failed to introduce a plan to stem the region’s
debt crisis, dimming the earnings outlook for banks, exporters
and raw-material producers.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothing retailer with 83 percent
of its sales in Europe, tumbled 20 percent in Hong Kong.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, dropped 1.7
percent in Sydney as crude and metal prices sank. Asian
financial shares slumped, paced by Westpac Banking Corp. in
Sydney. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. slid 4.2
percent in Hong Kong on speculation China won’t loosen measures
to control inflation.  Investors were hoping for “a firm, positive response to
Europe’s debt crisis,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1
billion in equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne .
“Instead, what they got was just greater uncertainty, and
nothing was resolved.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding  Japan  Index fell 2.7
percent to 403.32 at 7:17 p.m. in  Seoul , extending two straight
weeks of losses. Almost five stocks fell for each that advanced
and all 10 industry groups retreated. Markets in Japan are
closed today for a public holiday.  South Korea’s Kospi Index slid 1 percent and Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index dropped 2.8 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index lost 1.6 percent, while New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
declined 0.1 percent in Wellington. A report today from  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  and McDermott Miller Ltd. showed New Zealand
consumer confidence was unchanged in the third quarter.  Consumer Confidence  Futures on U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.8
percent today. The gauge advanced for a fifth straight day on
Sept. 16, capping a 5.4 percent weekly gain, after a report
showed U.S. consumer confidence climbed.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment climbed to 57.8 this month from 55.7
in August, the report showed. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a reading of 57. The
group’s measure of consumer expectations six months from now
dropped to the lowest level since May 1980.  Asian stocks fell today after finance chiefs from the euro
region said last week that the 18-month debt crisis leaves no
room for tax cuts or extra spending to spur an economy on the
brink of stagnation. Economic reports on  Germany  this week are
forecast to show a decline in investor confidence and a slowdown
in manufacturing in  Europe ’s largest economy.  Greece ’s ability to avoid default hangs in the balance as
international monitors assess whether Prime Minister George
Papandreou can meet the conditions of rescue loans.  Aid Payment  European Union and International Monetary Fund inspectors
will speak with Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos today to
judge whether the government is eligible for its next aid
payment, due next month, and on track for a second rescue
package approved by EU leaders on July 21.  “The fragility of the Greek position has the potential to
threaten the solvency of euro banks, in turn creating added risk
for the other highly leveraged European governments,” said
 Angus Gluskie , who manages more than $300 million at White Funds
Management in Sydney.  BHP fell 1.7 percent to A$37.60 in Sydney. Rio Tinto Group,
the world’s second-largest mining company by sales, lost 1.5
percent to A$70.20. Jiangxi Copper Co.,  China ’s No. 1 producer
of the metal, lost 6.7 percent to HK$17.40 in Hong Kong and
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the listed unit of nation’s
biggest maker of the lightweight metal, slumped 2.9 percent to
HK$4.33.  Oil, Metals  A measure of primary metals traded in  London  fell 0.4
percent on Sept. 16, while copper futures for December delivery
declined 0.6 percent on the Comex in  New York . Today, New York-
traded copper sank as much as 2.2 percent. Crude oil for October
delivery dropped 1.6 percent on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
on Sept. 16, and as much as 1.5 percent today.  Asian exporters also fell. Esprit tumbled 20 percent to
HK$9.80. Li & Fung Ltd., a supplier of toys and clothes to Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., retreated 8.4 percent to HK$13.02.  Billabong
International Ltd. (BBG) , a surfwear maker that gets a fifth of its
sales from Europe, fell 3.8 percent to A$3.03 in Sydney.  Westpac dropped 2.1 percent to A$19.51, while in Hong Kong,
HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank by market value, lost
2.6 percent to HK$62.90.  The MSCI Asia Pacific ex Japan Index lost 13 percent this
year through Sept. 16, compared with a 3.3 percent drop for the
 S&P 500  and a decline of 17 percent for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 11.2 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 12.2 times for the
S&P 500 and 9.6 times for the Stoxx 600.  China Inflation  Industrial & Commercial Bank slipped 4.2 percent to HK$4.57
in  Hong Kong  and Belle International Holdings Ltd., a Chinese
retailer of women’s shoes, lost 2 percent to HK$14.04 after a
report showed new-home prices rose in August in all 70 cities
monitored by the government for the first time this year.  Prices in Beijing gained 1.9 percent from a year earlier,
while those in  Shanghai , the nation’s financial center,
increased 2.8 percent, the statistics bureau said on its website
yesterday.  China Coal Energy Co., a unit of the country’s second-
biggest producer of the commodity, plunged 17 percent to HK$8.26
before trading in the stock was suspended in Hong Kong. Its
parent, China National Coal Group Corp., was ordered to cease
operations in China’s Shanxi province after flooding at a pit
killed 10 people, Xinhua News Agency reported Sept. 17, citing
provincial Vice Governor Li Xiaopeng.  China Coal halted trading in its shares pending the
announcement of “price-sensitive” information, the company
said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  