-- 
Asia Commercial Bank to Join Vietnam Top Four by 2015, CEO Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-19T03:31:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/asia-commercial-bank-to-join-vietnam-top-four-by-2015-ceo-says.html
Asia Commercial Bank’s assets will
probably more than triple by 2015, making it the first non-
government lender to overtake one of  Vietnam ’s four biggest
lenders, Chief Executive Ly Xuan Hai said.  Assets of Asia Commercial Bank, the nation’s fifth-biggest
bank, are expected to climb to 900 trillion dong ($43 billion)
by 2015 from about 255 trillion dong currently, Hai said. Joint-
Stock Commercial Bank for  Foreign Trade  of Vietnam, known as
Vietcombank, is the country’s fourth-largest lender with about
344 trillion dong of assets at the end of June.  The growth of non-state-owned banks underscores the
transition of Vietnam’s economy over the past quarter-century
from government controlled to market based. Since 2000, Vietnam
has opened a stock exchange, concluded a trade agreement with
the U.S., and joined the  World Trade Organization .  “It’s a long journey,” Hai said in an interview in his Ho
Chi Minh City office on Sept. 16. “From the time we were one-
tenth the size of state-owned banks, now, step by step, we have
narrowed the distance.”  Asia Commercial -- in which  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  has a 15
percent stake -- has closed the gap already. Its assets were 68
percent of Vietcombank’s at the end of June, up from 43 percent
at the end of 2007.  Competition from “more aggressive and flexible” private
lenders is taking business away from the top four state-owned
banks, whose market share of loans and deposits in Vietnam has
dropped to 56 percent now from 59 percent three years ago,
Moody’s Investors Service said this month.  Higher Confidence  “Confidence in the non-state-owned banks is much higher
than before,” said Hai. “This trend will continue.”  Asia Commercial’s financial health is “more robust” than
those of its Vietnamese peers, Moody’s said in a December 2010
note that put the bank’s market share of overall system assets
at 6.4 percent. The bank has a “disciplined credit approval and
monitoring process, progressive risk management and controls, as
well as the benefits of skills transfer from its shareholder,
 Standard Chartered ,” Moody’s said.  The “sensitivity” of depositor confidence in the Vietnamese
banking system creates liquidity management challenges and is an
industry weakness, Moody’s said in a separate report this month.
Market confidence may also be undermined by asset quality
problems and funding pressures at some of the nation’s smaller
banks, Moody’s said.  “A few banks are in a very difficult situation,” said Hai,
without naming any. He said he doesn’t foresee any  bank failures ,
in part due to the lack of a “clear mechanism” for a
definition of an industry bankruptcy.  --Jason Folkmanis and Diep Ngoc Pham in Ho Chi Minh City.
Editors: Russell Ward, Linus Chua  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  