-- 
United, Huntleigh Resolve Last 9/11 Wrongful Death Claim in N.Y.

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-20T04:03:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/last-9-11-wrongful-death-claim-settled-in-new-york-by-united-and-huntleigh.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,
the world’s biggest airline, and security contractor Huntleigh
USA Corp. have resolved the last Sept. 11, 2001, wrongful death
lawsuit in  New York .  Lawyers for Mary Bavis, whose son Mark Bavis was on board
United Airlines Flight 175 when terrorists crashed it into the
South Tower of New York’s World Trade Center, filed papers in
New York yesterday agreeing to dismiss the case. The parties
didn’t disclose the terms of the settlement.  “A resolution was reached out of court between the Bavis
family and the defendants,” Joseph Rice, one of the lawyers
representing the Bavises, said yesterday in a phone interview.  The suit, which was scheduled for trial Nov. 7, was the
last of 95 wrongful-death suits filed after the attacks that was
still pending in federal court in New York. The Bavises claimed
that United and Huntleigh, the airline’s security contractor,
were negligent in permitting five terrorists to board the flight
at  Boston ’s Logan International Airport and take control of the
plane.  “The tragic events of 9/11 impacted all of us, and we are
pleased to resolve this case,” said  Megan McCarthy , a
spokeswoman for Chicago-based United Continental.  ‘We’re Pleased’  “We’re pleased that the parties have resolved the case,”
said Jonathan Ross, a lawyer for Huntleigh.  Mark Bavis, 31, was traveling from his home in
 Massachusetts  to  Los Angeles , where he worked as a scout for the
Los Angeles Kings professional hockey team, when he and all the
other passengers on the plane were killed.  The Bavises sued United and Huntleigh in federal court,
rather than filing a claim with the Sept. 11 Victim Compensation
Fund, which paid out $7 billion to victims of the attacks and
family members.  In March 2009, a mediator reported to U.S. District Judge
Alvin Hellerstein, the judge overseeing the Sept. 11 suits, that
92 of the 95 cases had been settled for a total of about $500
million.  The case is Bavis v. UAL Corp., 02-cv-07154, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  