-- 
BofA Steers Some Clients From Debit to Credit

-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-09-19T19:25:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/bank-of-america-steers-brokerage-clients-to-credit-for-rewards.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is pushing
some of its brokerage clients who want to keep their debit
rewards to switch to credit cards following U.S. caps on debit-
card transaction fees.  Customers who have the  Visa Inc. (V)  signature rewards debit
card linked to their brokerage accounts will no longer earn
rewards points after Nov. 15, according to a letter sent to
clients last week.  They’re invited to apply for a Visa signature credit card
and earn a one-time bonus of 25,000 points if they make retail
purchases totaling at least $1,000 by Feb. 28. They’ll also get
double points for purchases made within 90 days of creating the
credit-card account if opened by that date.  “We created the best solution for clients by allowing them
to transfer points from a deferred-debit card to a  credit card 
and continue to enjoy the benefits of our rewards program,”
Selena Morris, a spokeswoman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  Charges made with the debit card are generally deducted
from the brokerage account at the end of the month, not at the
point of sale like with debit cards linked to checking accounts.  The  Federal Reserve  capped debit-card swipe fees at 21
cents starting Oct. 1. It will let issuers tack on five basis
points, or 0.05 percent, of each transaction, or almost 2 cents
based on the average debit purchase of $38, and a conditional 1-
cent adjustment for lenders that follow certain fraud-prevention
standards.  Points Expire  The cap, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, replaces a formula
that averages 1.14 percent of the purchase price, or about 44
cents. The limit may reduce annual revenue at the biggest U.S.
banks by $8 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg Government show.
Swipe fees for credit cards, which aren’t regulated, equal about
2 percent of the purchase price and generate about $40 billion a
year.  Customers of Merrill Lynch Wealth Management who have
earned rewards points on their Visa debit cards and open up
credit cards will have those points automatically transferred to
the credit cards, the letter said. If they don’t apply for the
credit cards, they can redeem their rewards points by visiting
card.ml.com by May 18. Rewards points that aren’t redeemed by
May will expire.  “As far as our general policy on debit, we continue to
evaluate pricing and benefits across all our payments products,
including debit cards,” Betty Riess, a spokeswoman for Bank of
America, said in an e-mail.  Other Banks  Morgan Stanley (MS)  has a debit-card rewards program linked to
brokerage accounts and it’s under review as a result of the
debit cap, said Christine Pollak, a spokeswoman.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the second-biggest debit-card issuer
after Bank of America, stopped enrolling customers in debit-card
rewards programs linked to bank accounts earlier this year and
existing clients won’t get points for debit-card purchases
starting next month.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest
bank by assets after Bank of America, stopped offering debit-
card rewards for most of its customers in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 