-- 
Belarus Should Keep Raising World’s Highest Rates, RenCap Says

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 
2011-09-19T12:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/belarus-should-keep-raising-world-s-highest-rates-rencap-says.html
Belarus should continue raising its
benchmark  interest rate , already the highest in the world, as
the former Soviet republic seeks to slow inflation amid an
economic crisis,  Renaissance Capital  said.  Belarus lifted its refinancing rate for the ninth time this
year on Sept. 14, to 30 percent. The central bank will probably
raise its refinancing rate on Oct. 1 after reviewing the latest
inflation data, state news service Belta reported, citing
Chairman Nadezhda Ermakova.  “They need to increase interest rates much more
aggressively,”  Ivan Tchakarov , RenCap’s Moscow-based chief
economist and a former IMF economist, said by phone. “If you
expect inflation to be running at 50 percent, you cannot have
interest rates running at 30 -- real interest rates are going to
be negative by 20.”  The country is struggling to resolve a balance-of-payments
crisis that forced a 36 percent devaluation of the Belarusian
ruble in May. Annual  Consumer price growth  stood at 60.7 percent
in August, according to the state statistics agency, and the
 International Monetary Fund  forecasts a rate of more than 50
percent by the end of 2011.  A spokesman for the central bank didn’t immediately return
a call from Bloomberg today. The bank’s policy is not to comment
on speculation about rates changes.  The Chinese government has agreed to provide Belarus with a
$1 billion loan and 70 million yuan ($11 million) of aid, Belta
 reported  Sept. 17, citing  Wu Bangguo , chairman of the Standing
Committee of China’s National People’s Congress, who is leading
a Chinese parliamentary delegation visiting the country.  “It will only lead to very short-term improvements,”
Tchakarov said. “The big structural issues that the government
faces are still there.”  Belarus’s $1 billion of bonds due 2015 rose, snapping a
three-day losing streak and pushing the yield down seven basis
points to 16.547 percent as of 1:37 p.m. in Minsk. Russian
ruble-denominated notes due 2012 also rallied, with the yield
down two basis points at 18.25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  