-- 
Berkshire Says $52-a-Share Transatlantic Offer Expires Today

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-09-19T14:44:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/berkshire-renews-3-25-billion-offer-for-transatlantic-that-expires-today.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  reinstated its $3.25 billion offer to buy  Transatlantic
Holdings Inc. (TRH)  for less than book value and gave the reinsurer
until the close of business today to accept a bid it previously
said was insufficient.  Berkshire’s National Indemnity renewed its $52-a-share cash
bid in a Sept. 16 letter and gave Transatlantic Chief Executive
Officer Robert Orlich a three-day deadline, New York-based
Transatlantic said in a statement today. “While further talks
may occur, no further talks are currently scheduled,”
Transatlantic said.  Berkshire reinsurance chief Ajit Jain is seeking to buy
Transatlantic after the target firm last week canceled a deal to
merge with Allied World Assurance Co. Holdings AG amid
shareholder opposition. Transatlantic, which also received a
cash-and-stock offer from  Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR) , fell 69 cents,
or 1.4 percent, to $48.08 at 10:07 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  “Some of their largest holders I suspect would prefer not
to get cashed out,” said  Thomas Russo , a partner at Berkshire
investor Gardner Russo & Gardner. “Even though it’s higher in
current value, it may not meet their original long-term
expectations,” Russo said of the Berkshire bid.  The bid from Bermuda-based Validus values Transatlantic at
about $47.41 a share, based on the Sept. 16 closing price. That
compares with a book value of $67.76 per share, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Buffett has sought to distinguish his firm by vowing not to
sell companies he takes over and sticking to his initial offers.  “We don’t participate in auctions,” the company said in
its most recent annual report.  ‘Opportunistic’ Offer  Transatlantic has said a cash offer would deny its
investors the chance to gain from a share rebound at a combined
company. The reinsurer said last week that Berkshire’s bid
“would not deliver fair value.”  Jain made a $52-a-share on Aug. 5 and Buffett said later
last month that Berkshire’s bid had expired. The renewed offer
was made on the same day that Transatlantic announced the end of
its deal with Bermuda-based Allied World.  “National Indemnity has neither increased its
opportunistic $52 per share proposal nor shown interest in
conducting full due diligence or holding discussions that could
lead to a higher offer,” Transatlantic said in today’s
statement. Buffett didn’t immediately respond to an interview
request e-mailed to his assistant.  Validus was invited last week by Transatlantic to enter
into negotiations. The unsolicited cash-and-stock bid from
Validus was inadequate, Transatlantic said on Sept. 16.  Validus fell 15 cents to $25.17. Berkshire slid $2,090, or
2 percent, to $105,010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  