-- 
Bob Evans Investors Urge Asset Sales to Fund Food Products

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-09-19T20:50:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/bob-evans-investors-urge-asset-sales-to-fund-food-products-unit.html
Bob Evans Farms Inc., owner of the
namesake family-restaurant chain, should sell land and buildings
to free up cash for its food-products business, share buybacks
and dividends, two investors said in a letter.  “Bob Evans has substantial value in its real estate
holdings that is not reflected in the current share price,” New
York-based shareholders G Asset Management and Capstone Equities
Capital Management LLC wrote Bob Evans management on Sept. 16.  The company could sell its properties and then rent them
back in an arrangement called a sale-leaseback, Michael
Glickstein, the president of G Asset Management, said in a
telephone interview.  “With such value in the real estate, there are multiple
ways that can be explored to unlock that,” he said.  Bob Evans, based in Columbus,  Ohio , had $1.68 billion in
plant, property and equipment as of July 29, according to a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Chief
Executive Officer Steven Davis has sought to expand the
company’s food-products segment, which makes sausage and side
dishes for retailers, as restaurant sales declined for three
straight years.  David Poplar, a Bob Evans spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a phone message and e-mail seeking comment.  Bob Evans rose 19 cents to $29.89 at 4:30 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares have
slumped 9.3 percent this year, compared with a 17 percent gain
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Restaurant Index.  Real Estate Holdings  The company owned the real estate for 486 Bob Evans’
restaurants and leased it for 77 as of the end of fiscal 2011,
according to a filing in June. The company leased the real
estate for 138 of its 145 Mimi’s Cafe locations and also owned
manufacturing plants and a distribution center for its food-
products business.  “Should the opportunity arise for us to use our real
estate portfolio to fund a profitable growth initiative, we
would certainly be open to exploring that option,” Davis said
on a  conference call  in August.  Capstone owned 2,920 shares of Bob Evans as of April 30,
according to Bloomberg data. G Asset also owns shares through a
broker, Glickstein said, while declining to say how many.  “We have identified a private REIT in the triple net space
interested in making an offer on a portfolio of stores,” the
investors said in the letter.  G Asset Management and Capstone also recommended hiring an
investment bank to explore options related to property and
adding someone with real estate expertise to the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  