-- 
BofA, JPMorgan, Costco Workers, TCW, Liberty Mutual, UBS in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-19T10:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/bofa-jpmorgan-costco-tcw-liberty-mutual-ubs-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the lender
burdened by its Countrywide Financial Corp. takeover, would
consider putting the unit into bankruptcy if litigation losses
threaten to cripple the parent, said four people with knowledge
of the firm’s strategy.  The option of seeking court protection exists because the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank maintained a separate legal
identity for the subprime lender after the 2008 acquisition,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the plans
are private. A filing isn’t imminent and executives recognize
the danger that it could backfire by casting doubt on the
financial strength of the largest U.S. bank, the people said.  The threat of a Countrywide bankruptcy is a “nuclear”
option that Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  could use
as leverage against plaintiffs seeking refunds on bad mortgages,
said analyst Mike Mayo of Credit Agricole Securities USA.
Moynihan has booked at least $30 billion of costs for faulty
home loans, most sold by Countrywide during the housing boom,
and analysts estimate the total could double in coming years.  “If the losses become so great, how can Bank of America at
least not discuss internally the relative tradeoff of a
Countrywide bankruptcy?” Mayo, who has an “underperform”
rating on the bank, said in an interview.  A Countrywide bankruptcy could halt legal proceedings and
consolidate litigation into one court that would split up the
subsidiary’s remaining assets for creditors, said Jay Westbrook,
a law professor at the University of Texas at Austin. In effect,
this would trade one type of litigation for another, one of the
people said.  The decision would turn on whether the potential savings of
a filing outweigh the risks involved in disavowing some of the
firm’s obligations, the person said.  Larry DiRita , a Bank of America spokesman, said he couldn’t
comment on whether the company planned to file a Countrywide
bankruptcy. The bank “took great pains to preserve the separate
identity of Countrywide,” DiRita said.  For more, click here.  Federal AT&T Suit Joined by  New York , Six Other States  The U.S. lawsuit seeking to block  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s acquisition
of T-Mobile USA Inc. was joined by seven states as their
attorneys general said the proposed $39 billion deal would hurt
competition and raise wireless telephone prices.  The states joining the amended complaint filed Sept. 16 by
the U.S. Justice Department in federal court in Washington were
New York, California, Massachusetts, Washington, Ohio,
Pennsylvania and Illinois.  Participation by the states bolsters the Justice
Department’s position and means any negotiated settlement of the
case would have to win the states’ approval, said  Herbert
Hovenkamp , a professor and antitrust expert at the University of
Iowa College of Law.  “If the federal government wants to go for a settlement
and the states don’t like it, they can hold out,” Hovenkamp
said in an interview. “The judge would have to listen to their
complaints.”  The government’s antitrust suit claims that the merger of
the two companies, which would make Dallas-based AT&T the
biggest wireless carrier in the U.S. and cut the number of
national competitors to three from four, is anticompetitive.  Michael Balmoris, a spokesman for AT&T, said 11 state
attorneys general support the deal.  “We will continue to seek an expedited hearing on the
Justice Department’s complaint,” he said in an e-mail. “On a
parallel path, we have been, and remain, interested in a
solution that addresses the department’s issues with the T-
Mobile merger.”  U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle has set a hearing
for Sept. 21 on the scheduling and told the parties to be
prepared to discuss settlement options.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Rakoff Will Decide If Madoff Trustee Can Sue for False Profits  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said that he rather than a
bankruptcy judge will initially decide whether the trustee for
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities Inc. has the right to
sue customers for recovery of so-called fictitious profits.  One of Madoff’s customers, James Greiff, argued on July 29
Rakoff should take a lawsuit away from the bankruptcy court in
which  Irving Picard , the Madoff trustee, sued Greiff for taking
more cash out of the Madoff firm that he put in. Picard has sued
hundreds of other Madoff customers on the same grounds. Rakoff
said in a ruling yesterday that he would make initial decisions
on two issues.  Rakoff told Greiff and the Madoff trustee to explain
whether the profits shown on Greiff’s account statements
represent valid debt to counter a fraudulent transfer claim.
Rakoff also wants the parties to explain whether a provision in
bankruptcy law known as the safe harbor bars suits because they
stem from trades in securities.  Rakoff said he will later file a written opinion giving
reasons for his ruling in detail.  Rakoff is revisiting the same issues that were decided in a
26-page opinion on Aug. 31 by U.S. District Judge Kimba M. Wood,
another federal district judge in Manhattan. Wood ruled that the
Madoff trustee is using valid theories to recover money
customers took out of the Ponzi scheme before the fraud was
discovered.  Wood said that U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton L. Lifland was
correct last year when he ruled Picard was justified in bringing
$34 million in claims against the Ariel and Gabriel funds
controlled by Ezra Merkin. Wood said Picard’s claims withstand
attack at the early stages of the lawsuit.  The Greiff case in district court is Picard v. Greiff, 11-
03775, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-
00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Mortgage Debacle Costs Banks $66 Billion as Suits Sap Profit  Faulty mortgages and foreclosure abuses have cost the
nation’s five biggest home lenders at least $65.7 billion,
according to a tally by Bloomberg News, and new claims may push
the industrywide total to twice that amount, Bloomberg News’
James Sterngold reports.  Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. lender, had the
biggest costs, totaling $39.1 billion since the start of 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
ranked second by assets, followed with $16.3 billion, and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, had $5.09 billion,
the data show.  The costs have eclipsed predictions from bankers and
analysts that lenders would suffer only modest damage from what
Bank of America Chief Executive Officer Brian T. Moynihan has
called “the mortgage mess.”  Paul Miller , the FBR Capital
Markets & Co. analyst, said costs for all banks could surpass
$121 billion as the bill comes due for lax lending practices.  “You’re not talking about improperly stapling together two
documents, you’re talking about systematic fraud in the
system,” Neil Barofsky, the former special inspector general
for the U.S. Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, said in
an interview. “What this shows is that before the financial
crisis, the banks were essentially lying to the purchasers of
the mortgages about the quality.”  Bloomberg’s tally was compiled from regulatory filings,
company statements and financial presentations by the nation’s
five biggest mortgage lenders. The data cover provisions and
expenses attributable to repurchases, foreclosure errors and
abuses, payments to reimburse investors for lost value on faulty
mortgages, legal settlements and litigation expenses.  The compilation also includes writedowns of assets, such as
mortgage-servicing rights, when the company attributed the loss
in value to problems in mortgage underwriting or foreclosures
and the costs of remedies. The figures may increase as more
detailed breakdowns become available.  For more, click here.  Costco Workers’ Group Case Blocked After Wal-Mart Ruling  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  won a ruling voiding a judge’s
decision to expand a sex-bias lawsuit filed by three women to
include hundreds of female workers.  A federal appeals court in  San Francisco  said Sept. 16 that
the lower-court judge applied the wrong legal standard and sent
the case back with instructions to apply the standards set by
the U.S. Supreme Court in its June ruling throwing out a group
gender-bias lawsuit against  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Costco, the biggest U.S. warehouse-club chain, was sued in
2004 for allegedly limiting promotions of female employees to
assistant general manager and general manager by failing to post
job openings. The original plaintiffs won class, or group,
status for the case in 2007. Costco’s appeal of that order was
put on hold while the Supreme Court considered Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart’s appeal of a similar ruling.  Jocelyn Larkin, an attorney for the workers, said she was
delighted with the ruling because employees had argued that the
case should go back to the lower court for further consideration
while Costco claimed that no national class of company employees
could be certified on the evidence in the case.  “The panel rejected Costco’s position and remanded as we
proposed,” Larkin said in an e-mail.  Jeff Elliott, a spokesman for Issaquah, Washington-based
Costco, declined to comment on the ruling.  The case is Ellis v. Costco, 07-15838, U.S. Court of
Appeals, San Francisco.  For more, click here.  News Corp. (NWSA)  Ex-Employee Said to Be Contacted for U.S. Probe  Prosecutors investigating hacking and bribery allegations
at Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. are seeking to interview a former
employee of a U.S. unit who claims knowledge of illegal activity
at the company, according to a person familiar with the matter.  U.S. prosecutors in Manhattan this month contacted a lawyer
for Robert Emmel, a former account director at News America
Marketing In-Store LLC, about allegations of hacking and
possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, said
the person, who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter.  Emmel said in court papers that he had evidence of
“widespread illegal activity” at News Corp.’s retail marketing
unit and gave it to federal lawmakers and regulators in 2006,
the year the company fired him. Emmel made the allegations in a
lawsuit News America Marketing brought against him.  Carly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara in New York, declined to comment on whether prosecutors
had made the contact. Emmel declined to comment.  Philip Hilder , a lawyer for Emmel, said in an interview
that “authorities have reached out” to him. Hilder declined to
identify the investigators or what they are seeking.  Suzanne Halpin , a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment on the development.  The breach of contract case is News America Marketing In-
Store LLC v. Emmel, 07-cv-00791, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Georgia (Atlanta).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Gundlach Wins TCW Pay Claim, Is Found Liable on Trade Secret  Jeffrey Gundlach , who was fired from TCW Group Inc. and
started his own firm, won a $66.7 million jury award against his
former employer for unpaid wages.  Gundlach, who has to share the money with three of his
colleagues, was also found Sept. 16 to have breached his
fiduciary duty to TCW and misappropriated its trade secrets. The
Los Angeles jury awarded the company no damages on the breach
claim. A judge will determine damages on the trade-secret claim.  Susan Estrich, a lawyer for TCW, said the company will ask
the judge to award it $89 million on the trade-secret claim. The
company also won a claim for intentional interference with
contractual relations. The jury awarded no damages.  “We are very pleased and gratified with the verdict,”
Estrich said outside the courtroom. “This was about liability,
about standing up for what is right.”  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, in January 2010, after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined DoubleLine Capital LP, the
asset-management firm Gundlach started within weeks after TCW
fired him. TCW sought as much as $566 million in damages.  Brad Brian, a lawyer for DoubleLine, said it could be
months before the judge rules on the “reasonable royalty” for
TCW’s trade-secret claim.  The jury found that Gundlach and DoubleLine didn’t act
willfully and maliciously in misappropriating trade secrets.  “We are very pleased the jury agreed Jeffrey Gundlach and
our other clients didn’t do anything to hurt TCW,” Brian said.
“This was not an easy trial.”  Michael Cahill, TCW’s general counsel, said in an e-mailed
statement that the verdict “speaks directly to the principles
at the heart of this case -- integrity, honesty and trust. The
jury found that each of the defendants violated these
principles.”  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and was named
Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
sought about $500 million.  The jury heard more than six weeks of testimony as the two
sides provided conflicting views of Gundlach’s falling out with
TCW Chief Executive Officer  Marc Stern  in 2009, which ended with
Stern’s buying Metropolitan West Asset Management LLC to run
TCW’s fixed-income group and firing Gundlach in December 2009.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  For more, click here and here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Liberty Mutual Group Settles Suit Accusing Lawyer of Extortion  Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. settled a lawsuit the insurer
filed against one of its former outside lawyers claiming he
tried to extort new legal work with a threat to expose
misconduct by an unidentified company executive.  U.S. District Judge Richard J. Sullivan in Manhattan
ordered the case dismissed after receiving a letter on Sept. 8
from Boston-based Liberty Mutual informing the court that it had
reached an agreement with Michael J. Devereaux and his law firm
Devereaux & Associates, according to a court filing.  Liberty Mutual sued Devereaux in January, saying the New
York lawyer threatened to file a suit claiming the executive
engaged in “personal misconduct” and demanded a 5 percent
kickback of all fees the company paid the law firm.  “We are pleased that the litigation has been resolved and
that we have concluded our relationship with the Devereaux
firm,” Liberty Mutual said in a statement.  Devereaux didn’t return a message seeking comment on the
settlement.  The case is Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. v. Michael J.
Devereaux & Associates PC, 11-cv-359, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  New Suits  Adoboli Charged With Fraud, False Accounting Dating to 2008  Kweku Adoboli, the trader arrested Sept. 15 after  UBS AG (UBSN) 
said it discovered unauthorized trades that caused a $2 billion
loss, was charged with fraud and two counts of false accounting
dating back to 2008 by  London  police.  The 31-year-old was remanded in custody at a magistrates
court in London Sept. 16 until Sept. 22, when he can make an
application for bail. Adoboli’s false accounting offenses
started in October 2008, according to the court charge sheet. He
is also charged with fraud dating back to January 2009.  Adoboli “dishonestly abused” his position as a senior
trader, which required him “to safeguard, or not to act
against, the financial interests of UBS,” according to court
documents.  Adoboli worked for UBS’s investment bank on its Delta One
desk, which handles trades for clients, typically helping them
to speculate on or hedge the performance of a basket of
securities. The group also takes risks with the bank’s own money
in arranging trades. UBS has said that no client positions were
affected.  He hired criminal law firm Kingsley Napley LLP in London to
represent him. Lawyers from the same firm advised Nick Leeson,
the former derivatives trader who caused the collapse of Barings
Plc with $1.4 billion in losses in 1995.  Adoboli wore a sky-blue sweater over a white shirt for his
appearance in court Sept. 16 and didn’t speak apart from
confirming his name and date of birth. He didn’t enter a plea.
Kingsley Napley said in an e-mailed statement it wouldn’t
comment on behalf of its client.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority and the Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority said they would also
investigate the UBS trading losses.  The investigation, to be carried out by a third party, will
focus on “the control failures which permitted the activity to
remain undetected” and “will include an assessment of the
overall strength of UBS’s controls to prevent unauthorized or
fraudulent trading activity in its investment bank,” the FSA
said in an e-mailed statement.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Court Filings  NewPage Bankruptcy Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  The bankruptcy docket of NewPage Corp., the largest maker of
coated papers in North America, was the most-read litigation
docket on the Bloomberg Law system last week.  NewPage, based in Miamisburg, Ohio, filed the biggest
bankruptcy of 2011 by assets listing $3.4 billion in assets and
$4.2 billion in debt as of June 30.  On Sept. 8, NewPage won temporary court permission to
borrow as much as $600 million to keep operating while it tries
to restructure at least $2.6 billion in bonds.  The case is In re NewPage Corp. 11-12804, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 