-- 
Bouncy-Castle Bubbles Charm Floating Visitors at Berlin Museum

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-09-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/bouncy-castle-bubbles-charm-floating-visitors-at-berlin-museum.html
Before getting an inside view of
Tomas Saraceno’s playful new artwork in Berlin, visitors must
remove jewelry, shoes and belts and empty their pockets of keys
and mobile phones.  The work is a bubble, and bubbles have a tendency to burst.  After shedding anything hard or sharp, you climb a rickety
ladder to enter a transparent plastic ball suspended above the
floor of the  Hamburger Bahnhof  museum for contemporary art. It
is held up by what look like spider webs, and anchored to earth
by bubbles filled with water.  Art critics at the press preview of the show, called
“Cloud Cities,” stepped gingerly from the top of the step
ladder onto the billowing layer of plastic in the middle of the
bubble. It’s like a bouncy castle, though not as firm -- you
can’t walk on it, only sit, lie or crawl.  The air pressure inside is different from the museum’s. The
acoustics are too -- everything inside sounds more immediate and
the outside world is cut off. The ball is completely
transparent, so you can see right across the museum hall, and
are visible to everyone below (skirts are a bad idea.)  Two people can enter at once. One person’s weight will
raise the altitude of the other by lifting the plastic -- to
remind us, the artist says, of how we are all interdependent.  Pressure Drop  In another, larger bubble-biosphere covered with plants,
visitors can enter either the upper level via a stepladder, or
the lower through a door at the bottom. Opening the door reduces
the air pressure and causes the upper sheet of plastic to sink
suddenly. Visitors caught unawares may get a shock.  The bubbles look beautiful, shining in shafts of sunlight
streaming through skylights of the museum’s hall. In addition to
the two walk-in bubbles, there is a cluster of smaller balls at
the entrance with different-colored plastic, creating a prism-
like effect. As you walk underneath and look up, the layers of
plastic realign to create new colors and patterns.  Other bubbles contain plant life, as though part of a
botanical space experiment; one is just a sphere of spider webs.
The interactive element distinguishes the project from the usual
art museum experience. Visitors are taken out of their comfort
zone, floating on shifting layers of plastic and confronting a
naked drop beneath.  Born in  Argentina  in 1973, Saraceno, who now lives in
 Frankfurt , told critics at the preview that his project “should
be fun,” though also thought-provoking. His resume says he
“lives and works between and beyond the planet Earth.”  Utopian Vision  He dreams of a cloud-city utopia that floats high in the
sky. Castles in the air spring to mind -- especially after
making the bouncy-castle connection. Still, it is fun for sure -
- a worthy follow-up to last year’s equally spectacular and
playful installation by Carsten Hoeller in the same space.  Hoeller attempted to create the mystic, elusive elixir soma
with 12 reindeer, 24 canaries, eight mice and two flies. The
adventurous could even spend the night in the museum -- on a
platform just above the reindeer enclosure.  Saraceno’s work, with a similar combination of science,
nature and fantasy, is likely to be equally popular with kids
(though they must be accompanied by an adult, and very small
children may be denied entry.)  Tomas Saraceno’s “Cloud Cities” is showing at the
Hamburger Bahnhof museum through Jan. 15 next year. For more
information, go to  http://www.hamburgerbahnhof.de   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 