-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Retreats on Greek Debt, Brazil Inflation Concerns

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-09-19T20:55:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/bovespa-futures-tumble-on-greek-sovereign-debt-concerns-commodities-drop.html
The Bovespa stock index fell for
the first day in four as speculation that  Greece  may not receive
a payment that would help it avoid default drove down
commodities, dimming the outlook for producers.  Consumer-goods 
companies fell on concern inflation will hurt profits.  Homebuilders including Rossi Residencial SA slid as traders
reduced bets for lower borrowing costs in  Brazil . Hypermarcas
SA, which sells more than 180 different brands of consumer
goods, led decliners after it was cut to “neutral” from
“buy” at Banco BTG Pactual SA and on concern inflation will
reduce profits of industries that depend on domestic demand.  The Bovespa fell 0.2 percent to 57,102.78 at the close of
trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time. Thirty-six stocks declined
on the index, while 29 rose. The real weakened 2.7 percent to
1.7804 per  U.S. dollar .  “The big question today is: what will happen to Greece?”
Alexandre Ghirghi, who helps manage about 150 million reais
($84.5 million) at Metodo Investimentos, said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “And after Greece, European
authorities will have to deal with other countries, including
Portugal and  Spain . The problem is far from being over.”  Greece’s ability to avoid default hangs in the balance as
international monitors prepare to assess whether Prime Minister
George Papandreou can meet the conditions of rescue loans.  ‘Productive and Substantive’  European Union and  International Monetary Fund  inspectors
held a teleconference this evening in  Athens  with Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos and other officials to judge
whether the government is eligible for an aid payment due next
month and on track for a second rescue package approved by EU
leaders July 21.  The call was “productive and substantive,” the  Finance
Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement. The talks will continue
in another teleconference tomorrow evening, the statement said.  Hypermarcas dropped 5.5 percent to 11.31 reais. Lojas
Renner SA, Brazil’s biggest publicly traded clothing retailer,
fell 4 percent to 54.70 reais. Apparel retailer Marisa Lojas SA
tumbled 4.4 percent to 21.70 reais.  Analysts covering the Brazilian economy raised their
inflation forecasts for the fourth week. Consumer prices will
rise 5.71 percent in the next 12 months and increase 5.5 percent
next year, according to the median forecast in a Sept. 16
central bank survey of about 100 economists published today. The
forecasts were up from 5.66 percent and 5.4 percent respectively
the previous week.  Inflation Risk  “Inflation is now the main risk to consumer stocks,” Caue
Pinheiro, an analyst with SLW Corretora, said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo .  In the Brazilian interest-rate futures market, yields on
most contracts rose. Yields on the contract due in January 2013,
the most traded today in Sao Paulo, rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 10.64 percent.  Rossi slumped 5.2 percent to 10.82 reais.  The Bovespa earlier fell as much as 2 percent. The gauge
pared losses as the real dropped, bolstering the outlook for
companies that depend on exports. Fibria Celulose SA, the
world’s largest pulp producer, climbed 3.3 percent to 17.98
reais.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge entered a  bear market  on
July 27 after plunging 20 percent from its bull-market peak in
November. The measure has since extended that drop to 22 percent
and trades at 9.8 times analysts’ earnings estimates, according
to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio
of 11.2 for the Shanghai Composite Index, 5.5 for  Russia ’s Micex
and 14.1 for  India ’s Sensex.  Traders moved 6.13 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a daily
average this year of 6.53 billion reais through Sept. 14,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  