-- 
Brazilian Real Sinks to One-Year Low as Concern Greece Will Default Mounts

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-09-19T21:35:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/brazilian-real-sinks-to-one-year-low-on-greek-default-concern.html
Brazil ’s real plunged to a one-year
low, cementing its status as the worst performer among major
currencies this month, as the European debt crisis compounded
government measures to weaken the currency.  The real declined 3.6 percent to 1.7976 per dollar at 5
p.m. New York time, from 1.7331 on Sept. 16. It earlier touched
1.7994, the lowest since July 20, 2010.  The real has lost 12 percent this month and 13 percent
since July 27, when the government imposed a 1 percent tax on
currency derivatives. The real had rallied 49 percent since the
end of 2008, making exporters goods more expensive in dollar
terms. The currency’s decline accelerated this month after the
central bank unexpectedly cut its borrowing costs for the first
time in two years while  Greece ’s struggle to avoid a debt
default lowered the prices of Brazil’s commodity exports.  “It looks very similar to the 2008 financial crisis and
the regulation risk amplified the real’s decline,” said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , who is betting the currency will continue
to slump. “There’s a concern how an overregulated currency will
perform in a risk-off environment.”  The real’s decline this month is the biggest among the 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, more than double the pace
of the drop in the euro. Against the Australian dollar, it
touched the weakest level since 2005. The real tumbled to a
three-year low of 2.6202 per dollar in December 2008 when the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. froze global credits.  Avoid Default  Greece’s ability to avoid default hangs in the balance this
week as international monitors will assess whether Prime
Minister George Papandreou can meet the conditions of rescue
loans. Commodities, as measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index, fell to a one-month low today. Brazil is the world’s
largest sugar producer and second largest soybean exporter.  The real surged to a 12-year high in July. Since October,
Brazil has tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreigners’ purchases
of bonds, raised the cost of foreign borrowing by local
companies and restricted banks from betting against the dollar
to prevent the currency from rallying. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  accused the U.S.,  Japan  and  Europe  last year of sparking
a global “currency war” by keeping rates near zero and pushing
capital to developing nations.  ‘Suffer the Most’  “The real is always seen as overvalued,” said  Diego Donadio , a Latin America strategist at Banco BNP Paribas Brasil
in  Sao Paulo . “Now you have global  risk aversion  and regulatory
risk in Brazil. All together with expectations of sharp rate
cuts, the real is the one to suffer the most.”  Brazil’s central bank, led by President Alexandre Tombini,
lowered the benchmark interest rate a half percentage point to
12 percent last month in a bid to bolster the economy amid a
global slowdown. Yields on the  interest-rate  futures contract
due in January 2013 rose one basis point to 10.64 percent today,
indicating traders expect policy makers will cut the benchmark
rate about another 1.25 percentage points to 10.75 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rate cut surprised all 62 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg who had expected the central bank to keep the rate
steady to cool inflation. Consumer prices rose 7.23 percent last
month on an annual basis, the fastest increase since 2005.  Analysts covering the Brazilian economy raised their
inflation forecasts for a fourth week in a survey released today
by the central bank.  Consumer prices will rise 5.71 percent in the next 12
months and increase 5.5 percent next year, according to the
median forecast in a Sept. 16 central bank survey of about 100
economists published today. The forecasts were up from 5.66
percent and 5.4 percent respectively the previous week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net 
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  