-- 
Brazil Analysts Reduce Inflation Forecast as Rousseff Calls For Rate Cuts

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-10-03T19:17:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/brazil-economists-raise-inflation-forecast-for-fourth-week-1-.html
Economists covering  Brazil  cut their
12-month inflation estimate for the first time in six weeks and
reduced their forecast for  interest rates  after the central
bank signaled further interest rate cuts won’t stoke inflation.  Consumer prices will rise 5.71 percent in the next 12
months, according to the median forecast in a Sept. 30  central
bank survey  of about 100 economists published today. The
forecast was down from a 5.76 percent forecast the previous week
that was the highest this year.  “The international scenario got worse, and commodities
fell, so the rise in inflation forecasts over recent weeks was
revised a bit,” said  Solange Srour , chief economist at BNY
Mellon ARX Investimentos in Rio de Janeiro.  Yields on interest rate futures plunged today on
speculation President  Dilma Rousseff  wants to cut the benchmark
rate to less than 10 percent next year. Yields on contracts due
January 2013 fell 20 basis points to 10.13 percent at 3 p.m.  New
York  time.  Brazil’s “ideal” interest rate after inflation should be
between 2 percent and 3 percent, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
told reporters today in Sao Paulo. The inflation-adjusted rate
was 4.7 percent in mid-September, the highest in the Group of 20
Nations.  Take Advantage  Rousseff wants to cut the Selic rate to 9 percent next
year, Estado do S. Paulo newspaper reported yesterday, citing
three government officials it didn’t identify. The report came
after Rousseff last week said Brazil must take advantage of the
global slowdown to lower its benchmark interest rate, which at
12 percent is the highest in the Group of 20.  “As the financial crisis gets worse, this time we’ll take
advantage of it,” Rousseff told a group of applauding
businessmen on Sept. 30 in  Sao Paulo . “We hope, and we can,
initiate a cycle of reductions in the benchmark rate.”  The president’s comments spurred bets that policy makers
will accelerate the pace of interest rate cuts when they meet
this month even as inflation remains at a six-year high.  Analysts expect the central bank to cut its benchmark Selic
rate half a percentage point at each of its next three policy
meetings, taking it down to 10.5 percent by January, and then
hold it at that level until the second quarter of 2013, the
survey found. A week earlier, analysts had forecast that the
central bank would start raising the rate again in the last
month of 2012.  Bigger Cut  Traders are pricing in a bigger cut, of 75 basis points, at
the central bank’s Oct. 18-19 meeting, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on interest-rate future yields.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini surprised analysts
Aug. 31 by slashing the Selic rate by 50 basis points, citing a
“substantial deterioration” in the global outlook.  In today’s survey, analysts stuck to their forecast for
prices to rise 6.52 percent this year. Next year they expect
prices to rise 5.53 percent, compared with 5.52 percent in the
previous week’s survey. They held their forecast for 2013
inflation unchanged at 4.80 percent.  The real was up 0.1 percent to 1.8777 per  U.S. dollar  at 3
p.m. in New York. The currency has fallen 17 percent against the
dollar since the end of July, the second most among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the South African rand.
The weaker real is unlikely to boost inflation expectations,
since its effects will be offset by lower commodities prices,
said  Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based senior Latin America
economist at 4Cast Inc., in a telephone interview.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities has fallen 10 percent
over the last two weeks.  Consumer prices rose 7.33 percent in the year through mid-
September, exceeding the 6.5 percent upper limit of the bank’s
target range for a fifth straight month.  Latin America ’s biggest economy will grow 3.51 percent this
year and 3.7 percent in 2012, analysts forecast for the second
straight week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  