-- 
Brazilian Raw-Sugar Premium Falls 38%, Swiss Sugar Brokers Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-09-19T11:18:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/brazilian-raw-sugar-premium-falls-38-swiss-sugar-brokers-says.html
The premium buyers are prepared to
pay for sugar from top global producer  Brazil  fell 38 percent
last week as supplies of the sweetener in the country improved,
according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Raw sugar for loading this month at Santos, the country’s
largest port, was at a premium of 0.5 cent a pound to the
October contract on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, the brokerage
said in a report dated yesterday. The premium was 0.8 cent on
Sept. 13, it said in a report that day.  “Suddenly it seems there is more sugar coming out of
Brazil,”  Naim Beydoun , a broker at the Rolle, Switzerland-based
company, said by phone today. “The crop remains bad, but more
cane has been converted into sugar.”  The sugar-cane crop in Center South, Brazil’s main
producing region, will fall for the first time in a decade to
510.2 million metric tons, according to industry group Unica.
Cane is used to make ethanol in the country as well as sugar.  “Traders who were unwilling to unleash some of their longs
until they have a clear view on the Center South final output
are now hoping not to have missed the opportunities of last
week’s premiums,” Beydoun said in the report. Premiums also
slid on weak demand, he said.  “Prices were too high,” Beydoun said by phone. “Demand
got pushed forward.”  Fewer Ships  While sugar supply isn’t abundant, neither is demand, he
said. As many as 32 vessels were waiting at Santos and the ports
of Recife and Paranagua to load 905,648 tons of sugar on Sept.
14, down from 63 ships and 1.94 million tons a week earlier,
according to data from Williams Servicos Maritimos Ltda.  “If Brazil would catch up with a better final output, this
sugar might be the start of the kick in surplus for next year,”
he said in the report. Brazil’s season usually starts in April.  Sugar supplies will outpace demand by 4.2 million tons in
the season starting in October, the London-based International
Sugar Organization estimates.  Raw sugar for March delivery rose 0.11 cent, or 0.4
percent, to 26.42 cents a pound by 7 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York . Prices plunged 6.6 percent, the most since April, on
Sept. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 