-- 
Brevan Howard May Return $2 Billion to Clients

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-09-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/brevan-howard-hedge-fund-said-to-consider-returning-2-billion-to-clients.html
Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP,
the hedge fund run by  Alan Howard , may return about $2 billion
to investors in the firm’s biggest fund to avoid growing so
large that its performance suffers, said four people familiar
with the matter.  The London-based firm’s Master Fund now oversees $26.9
billion and clients have said they want the fund to remain at
about $25 billion, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the company is private. Assets rose after the
hedge fund produced investment gains of 11 percent this year
through August.  Brevan Howard joins hedge funds Caxton Associates LP, SAC
Capital Management LLC and JAT Capital Management LP, which have
told clients in recent months that they want to limit their size
because they see fewer opportunities to make money.  “When the amount you are managing is above a certain
threshold, what you are doing can be visible to other market
participants,” said Jacob Schmidt, founder of Schmidt Research
Partners Ltd., a London-based hedge-fund advisory firm. “You
can also influence the market through your buying and selling.”  Caxton Associates, the $10 billion hedge fund run by Andrew
Law, told its clients last week that it will restrict the amount
of money it takes in.  Steve Cohen ’s $14 billion SAC Capital
Management LLC decided earlier this year to close its biggest
fund to new clients. The fund, which opened in 1992, had
remained closed for its first 13 years before re-opening to
investors in 2005.  Macro Fund  John Thaler’s JAT Capital Management LP, with $2.5 billion,
has decided to stop marketing its fund for the time being, and
won’t be taking new investments beginning next month, according
to two people familiar with the plans, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public. The New York-
based fund has climbed 35 percent this year, the people said.  A spokesman for Brevan Howard confirmed the firm’s plans to
return some money to investors, but declined to elaborate. The
Master Fund is managed by Howard and a team of traders. A so-
called macro fund, it invests in liquid assets, including
currencies and  interest rates , to try to profit from global
economic trends.  Brevan Howard could pick and choose which clients get their
money back, or it could return money to investors in the fund on
a pro rata basis. The firm isn’t likely to make investors take
withdrawals if they’ve shown a commitment to the hedge fund over
a long period of time, such as those who haven’t submitted
redemption requests, said one of the people.  6.2% August Gain  Brevan Howard has faced recurring questions about the size
of the Master Fund from investors, and acknowledged the scrutiny
in a November 2009 statement. At the time, Brevan Howard said it
would recommend to the firm’s board of directors that money be
returned to clients “if and when we sense that a fund cannot
deliver an attractive return because of the size of its assets
relative to market opportunities.”  The fund gained 6.2 percent in August, its best month since
February 2008. The returns came in a month when hedge funds on
average declined 1.6 percent, the industry’s worst performance
since May 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brevan Howard has probably made money this year by wagering
that the volatility of interest rates would rise because of
uncertainty about the prospects for economic growth in the U.S.
and  Europe , according to a report by Tom Skinner, an analyst
with JPMorgan Securities Ltd. in London. The Master Fund has
also profited from a bet that the short-term lending rates
between European banks, or Euribor, would decline, Skinner wrote
in the Sept. 5 report.  Other Founders  Brevan Howard’s Master Fund gained 1 percent last year,
18.7 percent in 2009, 20.4 percent in 2008 and 25.2 percent in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Howard, 48, founded Brevan Howard in 2002 with four other
traders from Credit Suisse Group AG’s proprietary fixed-income
trading desk. James Vernon, the chief operating officer who
represented the “V” in Brevan Howard’s name, decided in July
to leave the firm. Jean-Philippe Blochet, who represented the
“B” in the company’s name, left the company last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  