-- 
‘Modern Family’ Leads ABC to 5 Emmys, Ends 8-Year HBO Streak

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-09-19T17:29:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/burrell-bowen-win-emmys-for-supporting-roles-on-abc-s-modern-family-.html
The comedy “Modern Family” led
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC to five Emmy awards, the most of any
network, ending an eight-year winning streak by  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s  HBO .  “Modern Family,” the ensemble satire that looks at the
complicated makeup of families today, won as best comedy series
a second straight year, garnering supporting-actor statuettes
for Ty Burrell and Julie Bowen, plus best writing and directing.  The recognition for “Modern Family” will help lift
ratings for the show and for third-place ABC, said  Brad Adgate ,
director of research at Horizon Media Inc. in  New York .  “Situation comedy is the only category cable can’t
crack,” Adgate said.  AMC Networks Inc.’s “Mad Men” captured the award for best
dramatic series for a fourth year during Fox’s telecast of the
63rd prime-time Emmy awards last night at the Nokia Theatre in
Los Angeles. CBS, HBO and PBS each garnered four wins.  The relative parity underscores resurgent artistic
competition in television. PBS’s “Downton Abbey” miniseries
from Masterpiece won four awards, beating HBO’s “Mildred
Pierce” head-to-head, including for overall show, writing and
directing.  The success of “Downton Abbey” is a “David and Goliath”
story, Masterpiece Executive Producer Rebecca Eaton said to
reporters backstage.  “HBO has tremendous marketing muscle,” Eaton said. “When
a program like ‘Downton Abbey’ wins, it stands on its own
merits, and the Academy recognized this.”  Film Heavyweights  HBO relied on big-screen heavyweights like  Martin Scorsese 
and  Kate Winslet  for its wins. Scorsese won his first Emmy, for
directing the pilot of “Boardwalk Empire,” and Winslet won for
best actress in a miniseries for “Mildred Pierce.”  Working on a television series gives the director more
freedom than film, Scorsese said to reporters backstage. He said
developing long-form movies for television has been an aim since
the 1960s.  “I personally feel that this is the opportunity,”
Scorsese said. “Maybe even more so than in independent
cinema.”  In “Modern Family,” Burrell and Bowen play husband and
wife Phil and Claire Dunphy. The show also follows a gay couple
and a heterosexual couple with decades in age between them.
Michael Allen Spiller won for directing and Steve Levitan and
Jeffrey Richman for writing on the ABC show.  “We all fear the quality dipping so we work extra hard,”
Levitan said backstage. “When we feel a scene or a storyline
that doesn’t quite work, we won’t settle.”  Competition for Viewers  Last night’s telecast vied for viewers with NBC’s Sunday
Night Football, which pitted the  Philadelphia Eagles  and
quarterback Michael Vick against his old team, the  Atlanta
Falcons .  The game, which Atlanta won with a late, fourth-quarter
touchdown, was the most-watched show last night, giving NBC an
average of 18 million viewers in prime time, compared with 10.4
million for Fox, according to updated Nielsen ratings data
supplied by the networks.  Fox said in a statement the Emmys had a 4.2 rating among
adults ages 18 to 49 years old, the group advertisers target.
That represented a 2 percent increase from last year’s telecast,
the network said.  CBS’s Emmys  CBS’s four Emmys came from comedy, drama and reality
programs. Melissa McCarthy won best lead comedy actress for
playing Molly Flynn in “Mike & Molly,” and Jim Parsons took
lead comedy actor Emmy for his role as Sheldon Cooper in “The
Big Bang Theory.” Julianna Margulies won best lead drama
actress for playing Alicia Florrick in “The Good Wife,” and
“The Amazing Race” took the Emmy for best reality show.  “The  Daily Show  With  Jon Stewart ,” from  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s
Comedy Central, ran its streak to nine in the outstanding
variety, music or comedy series category. The show also won a
writing award.  Jane Lynch , the actress who was nominated for her role on
Fox’s “Glee,” hosted the Emmys for the first time. The awards,
which drew their biggest audience in four years in 2010, have
grown in importance for networks promoting the TV season that
started this month, said media analyst Hal Vogel in New York.  “This is an important show and also a showcase,” Vogel
said in an interview before the program. “It is one of the few
big-show audiences left.”  The Emmys are organized by The Academy of Television Arts &
Sciences. This year’s executive producer was “Survivor”
creator Mark Burnett.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  