-- 
Burundi Bar Attacked by Unidentified Gunmen; 36 People Dead

-- B y   D e s i r e   N i m u b o n a
-- 
2011-09-19T14:38:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/burundi-bar-attacked-by-unidentified-gunmen-20-people-killed.html
At least 36 people were killed when
unidentified gunmen opened fire on a bar in Burundi outside the
capital, Bujumbura, said Jacques Minani, governor of the city.  The attackers, who wore military and police uniforms, used
rifles, grenades and clubs in the attack at the Carrefour des
Amis bar in Gatumba, about 13 kilometers (8 miles) northwest of
Bujumbura, Minani said in a phone interview. No one has claimed
responsibility for the attack.  President Pierre Nkurunziza told a crowd gathered near the
scene of the attack today that the gunmen fled across the Rusizi
River to neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo. He urged
Burundi’s Foreign Ministry to contact the Congolese authorities
to help bring the attackers to justice.  Armed men wearing military uniforms have been involved in a
series of shootings this year in which army officers, policemen
and civilians have been killed. The attacks may be linked to the
start of an armed rebellion in the East African country,
Niyoyankana Bonaventure, president of the opposition Union for
National Progress, said last month.  Nkurunziza canceled a planned trip later today to the U.S.
and declared three days of national mourning. He called for
international assistance to help track down the perpetrators.  Burundi is rebuilding its economy after a decade-long civil
war that killed 300,000 people. Fighting broke out in 1993 when
the country’s first democratically elected president was
assassinated. The East African nation, one of the world’s
poorest, relies on coffee to generate two-thirds of its exports
and the industry is the main source of income for about 800,000
households, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Desire Nimubona in Bujumbura via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 