-- 
Buy American and Fairer Trade Can Solve Job Woes: Alan Tonelson

-- B y   A l a n   T o n e l s o n
-- 
2011-09-19T00:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/buy-american-fairer-trade-can-solve-job-woes-commentary-by-alan-tonelson.html
President  Barack Obama ’s new
jobs plan, if passed by Congress, might spark some activity
and even some employment in the moribund U.S. economy. But
it’s unlikely to foster the growth and job creation we
urgently need, without adding new debt, because the plan
ignores a key obstacle to genuine prosperity: the nation’s
immense trade deficit.  Before the financial crisis peaked two years ago,
most Americans and their leaders understandably, if not
wisely, ignored the economic costs of the nation’s trade gap.
This chronic shortfall reduced U.S. output and employment, 
and most economists warned that it was unsustainable. But a 
string of asset bubbles fueled enough growth and hiring to 
more than compensate, and the day of reckoning seemed 
comfortably far off.  Today, however, the importance of the trade deficit
can no longer reasonably be denied. In the year through June, it 
was $422.9 billion (on an annualized inflation-adjusted basis),
almost 3.9 percent higher than the year-earlier period. The 
increase in the  trade gap  since June 2009, when the recession 
technically ended, has reduced the growth of the American economy
by much more (over 14 percent) than falling government purchases 
(about 6 percent) or the still-shrinking housing industry (less 
than 2 percent).  At this point, a substantial reduction in the trade
deficit must be made a priority. Otherwise, any economic
stimulus produced by the various recovery proposals offered
by Democrats and Republicans, including Obama’s, would
still leave America’s underlying debts dangerously large.  Stimulus Isn’t Enough  History shows that stricter government austerity, with
or without reforms to government regulations or the tax
system, can’t alone meet the challenge adequately. Nor
could any new stimulus, whether in the form of spending or
tax cuts, make up for enough of the money lost when
Americans buy imported goods and make investments abroad at
the rate they do now.  Reducing the trade deficit drastically, however, could
speed growth while actually lessening the need to prop up
domestic demand. It could, first, boost exports enough to
allow U.S.-based producers to generate most future growth
and employment by supplying new foreign customers. And it
could lower imports, enabling domestic producers to meet
more of the demand at home. In fact, even if demand within
the U.S. were to fall somewhat, a reduction in imports
could spur growth.  President Obama has set a goal of doubling exports,
and Congress seems ready to approve three trade agreements
-- with Colombia, Korea and  Panama . But because these
initiatives ignore our high level of imports, they are
sadly inadequate. The U.S. trade deficit is now so large,
and the world’s prospects for growth so poor, the payoff
from decreasing imports would dwarf the benefits of
increasing exports.  Inevitably, any effort to reduce imports raises
longstanding objections to limiting trade. Such action, it
is said, interferes with the operation of the free market,
keeping it from optimally allocating global resources. But
this argument ignores an important reality in the world’s
current trading system: Certain countries follow
mercantilist policies that aim to increase growth and
employment by racking up big and persistent trade
surpluses, and these policies interfere with genuine wealth
creation and associated hiring in the U.S.  China, for one, artificially holds down the value of
its currency, the yuan. This prices American-made products
out of the Chinese market, and it gives Chinese goods an
artificial advantage over American goods in the U.S. and
elsewhere. Japan and  Korea  have also often manipulated
their currencies to skew trade flows.  Phase-In Period  New U.S. trade barriers, it is also often said, might
set off international economic conflicts or even lead to a
global depression of the kind not seen since the 1930s. In
fact, although our trade partners rely heavily on our
hunger for imports, most of them would ultimately accept
new trade restrictions, if only because they would want to
guard against losing even more sales in the U.S. market
during the period of phasing in these barriers.  Decisive moves by the U.S. to reduce imports might
also help by shocking our trade partners into finally
negotiating international agreements that rectify
imbalances. In any case, for a world dangerously dependent
on American consumption, the U.S.’s current and foreseeable
economic plight overrules arguments against restricting
trade.  Although it’s true that economic growth -- both in the
U.S. and worldwide -- would slow as international supply
chains adjusted to new U.S. restrictions, this problem
wouldn’t be permanent. Sustainable U.S. trade accounts must
be restored before a better-balanced, and thus truly
healthy, world economy can emerge.  Several strategies recently proposed in Congress
could, in combination, bring the U.S. trade deficit under
control. First, and arousing the least amount of
controversy, stiff tariffs should be slapped on imports
from  China  and other countries that depress the value of
their money. Even after years of pleadings by U.S.
diplomats, currency manipulation continues to distort
trade, and for reasons that have nothing to do with market
forces.  Adding substantially to the price of goods from
countries that practice currency manipulation would at
least eliminate their artificial price advantages in the
huge American market. These tariffs should be maintained
and even periodically raised until America’s deficits with
the offending countries decrease significantly.  VATs Are Protectionist  Tariffs should also be imposed on countries with
value-added tax systems. VATs are less blatantly
protectionist than currency manipulation, but they may
contribute much more to U.S. trade deficits. Because these
taxes are imposed on domestic consumption, they raise the
price of imports. And because they are rebated on exports,
they, in effect, subsidize overseas sales.  For many countries, VATs cancel each other out across
borders, but the U.S., which is virtually the only VAT-less
trading country, experiences only the downside. Unless and
until the U.S. enacts its own VAT, these levies should be
offset with another tariff.  Still another way Congress could greatly reduce U.S.
imports would be to revisit the “Buy American” requirements
that are imposed on federal agencies. After all,  government
spending  represents 19 percent of the  U.S. economy . The
rules should be extended to lower levels of government as
well, by making it a condition of federal aid to states and
localities.  What’s more, no exceptions to the Buy-American rule
should be allowed for products made by U.S. trade partners,
even those countries that are currently entitled to
nondiscriminatory treatment under a World Trade
Organization pact on government procurement. Given the
urgent need to right the trade imbalance, America’s own
needs and the imperative of stabilizing the global economy
must be placed ahead of the short-term interests of U.S.
trading partners.  In fact, exemptions to the Buy-American rule --
including those for foreign-made items that are
significantly less expensive or more widely available than
their American-made counterparts -- should be strictly
limited. And compliance with the rule should be monitored
much more closely. (In recent years, according to U.S.
Representative Dan Lipinski, a Democrat from  Illinois , more
than 20 percent of purchases by the U.S. Commerce
Department have been imports.)  Next-Generation Spending  The Buy-American rule is especially important when it
comes to public seed money spent on next-generation
industries -- high-speed rail systems, for example, or
advanced batteries and other fuel-saving devices for cars -
- which have the potential to become highly profitable.  In cases where the government needs to buy things that
aren’t made in the U.S. -- many electronics products, for
example -- foreign suppliers should be required, wherever
practical, to build factories to make the goods in the U.S.  Finally, the U.S. could limit future trade deficits by
practicing more selective trade diplomacy. It still makes
sense to have  free-trade  agreements with countries that
share our critical free-market values. But such market-
opening deals shouldn’t be made with flagrantly
mercantilist powers. And those that have been made should
be suspended, or at least rewritten, to strengthen
America’s defenses against mercantilist practices.  Changes are also needed in pacts such as the  North
American Free Trade Agreement , which were designed not to
increase net U.S. exports but to enable U.S. and
multinational companies to supply the American market from
production facilities in low-wage countries with few
business regulations.  More sweeping import restrictions might still be
needed, as well as new efforts to lure high-value
production to American shores. The U.S. could, for example,
emulate China in requiring foreign manufacturers who
acquire U.S. real estate or companies, or create factories
here, to use large percentages of American parts and
components in their products, and to share their most
advanced technology with American partners.  At the moment, the specific mix of new rules matters
less than simply coming to a decision to act forcefully.
The trade deficit is so large and growing so rapidly that,
if unaddressed, it will eventually reduce living standards
for all Americans. It’s best that the U.S. move quickly,
while it can still assert its advantage.  (Alan Tonelson is a research fellow at the U.S.
Business and Industry Council, which represents almost
2,000 domestic manufacturing companies. He is the author of
“The Race to the Bottom: Why a Worldwide Worker Surplus and
Uncontrolled  Free Trade  Are Sinking American Living
Standards.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  For Related News and Information:  To contact the writer of this article:
 tonelson@usbusiness.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  