-- 
UBS Trading Loss Makes Case for U.K. Bank Revamp, Cable Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-19T16:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/cable-says-ubs-trading-losses-underline-need-for-bank-reform.html
Business Secretary Vince Cable said
 UBS AG (UBSN) ’s $2.3 billion unauthorized trading loss underlines the
case for  John Vickers ’s plan to force U.K. banks to insulate
their consumer units from their investment banking operations.  “If there were any doubts about the need for radical
reform, the UBS rogue trader has dispelled them, because we
simply cannot have rogue institutions exposing taxpayers to the
risk of exploding financial weapons of mass destruction,” Cable
told his Liberal Democrat Party’s  annual conference  today in
Birmingham, central England.  The loss at UBS, first estimated at $2 billion, and the
charging of a 31-year-old trader by London police with fraud and
false accounting were announced Sept. 15, three days after
Vickers published the final report of his Independent Commission
on Banking. While Vickers stopped short of calling for the full
separation of retail and investment banking that Cable has urged
in the past, the business secretary backed his plan. Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said it will become law by 2015.  The Liberal Democrat leader, Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , attacked bond traders in his appearance before the
conference today, saying only the government’s moves to narrow
the  budget deficit  prevented investors in gilts from determining
policy, rather than the ruling coalition.  ‘Pillar to Post’  “There’s nothing fair or good in letting bond traders push
us from pillar to post,” Clegg told delegates in a question-
and-answer session. “When the bond traders run the country, not
the government of the day, we can’t do anything good.”  In his speech, Cable also said he was looking at ways of
giving shareholders more control over pay, citing banks as
institutions where there were “rewards for failure.”  “People accept capitalism, but they want responsible
capitalism,” Cable said. “It is hard to explain why
shareholders can vote to cut top pay but the managers can ignore
the vote.”  Options under consideration in a discussion paper published
by Cable’s Department for Business, Innovation and Skills today
include giving shareholders a binding vote on pay and putting
employees on company remuneration committees.  While Cable has ruled out setting limits on compensation,
he’s also looking at stiffening reporting requirements for
listed companies, including requiring the publication of how
much each board member gets and details of performance-related
bonuses.  Directors’ Salaries  Cable has already set up a study under an economist, John
Kay, to look at how executives can be encouraged to take a long-
term outlook. British directors’ salaries increased by 64
percent over the past decade, while the average year-end share
price of FTSE 100 companies declined by 71 percent over the same
period, according to the  High Pay Commission , a pressure group
that pushes for curbs on top earners.  The  Confederation of British Industry , the country’s main
business lobby group, warned Cable that “executive pay must not
become a political football.”  “People should be rewarded for good work, and payment for
failure is unacceptable, but it must be recognized that the jobs
market for senior company executives is one where talent
competes globally,” CBI Director-General  John Cridland  said in
an e-mailed statement. While investors should hold boards to
account, “it is not the role of shareholders to micro-manage
companies day-to-day,” he said.  Bank Pay  Cable told delegates he would have liked to do more to
control the level of bank pay and bonuses and blamed his
Conservative coalition partners for blocking that.  “It has not been possible for the party to get its own way
on everything,” he said. “My regret this year is that we did
not secure tighter control on bank pay and bonuses.”  Cable was scornful of the suggestion from some lawmakers in
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party  that the top
50 percent rate of income tax, on earnings of more than 150,000
pounds ($235,000) a year, should be lowered.  “Some believe that if taxes on the wealthy are cut, new
revenue will miraculously appear,” Cable said. “I think their
reasoning is this: all those British billionaires who
demonstrate their patriotism by hiding from the taxman in  Monaco 
or some Caribbean bolthole will come rushing back to pay more
tax but at a lower rate.”  With the economy stalling, Cable called for banks to
increase their lending to business. “Productive British
business and banking are currently at odds,” he said. “Banks
operate like a man who either wears his trousers round his
chest, stifling breathing, as now, or round his ankles, exposing
his assets. That’s if they have any.”  Cable said that “we want their trousers tied round their
middle: steady lending growth; particularly to productive
British business, especially small-scale enterprise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Birmingham,  England  at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Birmingham, England at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  