-- 
Cable Sees Truce With British Banks After Year of Conflict

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-20T09:14:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/cable-sees-truce-ahead-with-u-k-banks-halting-year-of-conflict.html
Business Secretary Vince Cable said
he’s hoping to put an end to a year of conflict with British
banks after the adoption of a plan to force them to insulate
their retail units from their investment banking operations.  Cable was speaking at a fringe event during the  annual
conference  of his Liberal Democrat party in Birmingham, central
 England . It was at the same event a year ago that he warned of
“a potential train crash ahead” if banks paid out large
bonuses as the government pressed ahead with spending cuts. The
business secretary has also repeatedly called over the past year
for banks to step up lending to businesses to spur growth.  “I’d like to think that we can draw a line under lots of
those controversies and move on,” Cable said at the event
sponsored by the City of  London  Corporation last night.  He said
he hoped banks could be treated as “normal institutions, some
of which, the retail banks, will be ring-fenced, and essentially
underwritten by the state, and other bits, the investment banks,
will become like hedge funds, they will compete, rise and fall,
and they’ll just be normal businesses.”  Cable and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  have
pledged to implement by 2019 the recommendations published last
week by the Independent Commission on Banking, chaired by  John Vickers , aimed at shielding customers and taxpayers from another
financial crisis. The plans will cost the industry as much 7
billion pounds ($11 billion).  ‘Backstop Date’  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , the leader of the Liberal
Democrats, told the BBC today he was “pretty confident” that
2019 was a “backstop date.” He said as long as the necessary
laws were passed before 2015, “I suspect actually the changes
will be implemented well before 2019.”  Cable said he’d like to be able to treat London’s financial
services “as a very major national asset.”  “We are focused on working constructively with the
government, regulators and international authorities on
delivering financial stability and promoting economic
recovery,” the  British Bankers’ Association  said in an e-mailed
statement today. “We always welcome constructive engagement to
meet these goals.”  Cable’s words were softer than those he used earlier
yesterday addressing the main Liberal Democrat conference, when
he said  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s $2.3 billion unauthorized trading loss revealed
in London last week underlines the case for the bank overhaul.  ‘Rogue Institutions’  “If there were any doubts about the need for radical
reform, the UBS rogue trader has dispelled them, because we
simply cannot have rogue institutions exposing taxpayers to the
risk of exploding financial weapons of mass destruction,” Cable
told delegates.  A 31-year-old trader has been charged by London police with
fraud and false accounting.  Cable also again attacked banks over lending in his speech
to Liberal Democrat activists.  “Productive British business and banking are currently at
odds,” he said. “Banks operate like a man who either wears his
trousers round his chest, stifling breathing, as now, or round
his ankles, exposing his assets. That’s if they have any.”  Cable said that “we want their trousers tied round their
middle: steady lending growth; particularly to productive
British business, especially small-scale enterprise.”  At last night’s event, Cable said the whole financial-
services sector in the U.K. “has been colored by the problem of
the banks,” which he described as “institutions that are
global in life but national in death.”  He said he hoped that the Vickers recommendations would
deal with banks’ structural difficulties and allow the
government to rebuild its relationship with the whole industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Birmingham, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Birmingham, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  