-- 
California, U.S. Settle Suit in San Francisco Bay Spill for $44.4 Million

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   J e r a n   W i t t e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-09-20T00:38:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/california-u-s-settle-suit-in-san-francisco-bay-spill-for-44-4-million.html
California  and the U.S. Justice
Department reached a $44.4 million civil settlement with Regal
Stone Ltd. and Fleet Management Ltd., whose ship struck the  San
Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge  in 2007.  The subsequent 53,000-gallon (200,000-liter)  oil spill  from
the Cosco Busan container ship killed thousands of birds, harmed
the 2008 herring spawn in the San Francisco Bay, spoiled miles
of coastline and closed the bay and beaches in the area for
recreation, California Attorney General Kamala D. Harris said
today in a statement.  “This bay is the jewel of the San Francisco region and the
Cosco Busan oil spill left a lasting scar across our water,
natural habitats and wildlife,” Harris said. “This settlement
will allow all of these precious resources to be restored to
their original health and beauty.”  The captain of the ship pleaded guilty in 2009 to a
negligence charge and was sentenced to 10 months in prison. Hong
Kong-based Fleet Management, the company that operated the ship,
pleaded guilty to criminal charges in 2009 and agreed to pay a
$10 million fine.  A consent decree was filed today in federal court in  San
Francisco .  “Out of respect for the consent decree’s public comment
period it would be inappropriate for us to comment at this
time,” Darrell Wilson, a spokesman for Regal Stone, the ship’s
owner, said in an e-mailed statement. “We regret that the
accident occurred and deeply appreciate all those who
contributed to the response.”  The case is U.S. v. M/V Cosco Busan, 07-6045, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 