-- 
California Loses Stigma as Borrowing Costs Dive 33%: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-09-19T17:45:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/california-loses-stigma-as-borrowing-costs-dive-33-muni-credit.html
California , the biggest U.S.
municipal debt issuer, is paying one-third less in long-term
borrowing costs than two years ago, when former Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  fought lawmakers over deficits and struggled to
attract individual investors.  The nation’s most populous state is in the second day of a
$2.5 billion sale of general-obligation bonds -- Governor  Jerry Brown ’s first long-term borrowing this year. The deal includes
10-year securities offered to individuals at 108 basis points
above top-rated tax-exempt debt. That compares with a 160 basis-
point premium it paid on similar bonds in March 2009. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The savings reflect a turnaround in investor sentiment
toward a state that only two years ago had to resort to selling
IOUs to pay its bills. The price of insuring California bonds
has plunged by half since 2009 as Brown, 73, has limited
borrowing and brokered an $85.9 billion general-fund spending
plan with fellow Democrats that addresses long-term budget
deficits.  While  Standard & Poor’s  rates the state’s debt the lowest
in the U.S., “people are more comfortable with the California
credit and appreciate what’s going on,”  John Bonnell , who
manages a $615 million California bond fund at USAA Investment
Management Co., said in a telephone interview from  San Antonio .  “They are making the right decisions, or at least heading
in the right direction,” he said.  Two years ago, the state was forced to pay as much as $123
million more in interest and cut its bond sale by 8 percent, to
$4.14 billion, after individual investors shied away from the
offer. California faced cumulative budget deficits of $60
billion at the time.  Spending Triggers  This year’s budget included a series of “triggers” that
automatically would reduce spending on universities, home health
care and social programs if revenue misses targets by $1 billion
in December. It would shorten the school year and end busing
subsidies if the gap widens to $2 billion.  Brown vetoed a bill Sept. 16 that would have required the
state finance director to consult with legislative leaders
before the triggers can be activated.  California is offering individual investors a 3.17 percent
yield on 10-year debt, according to the Treasurer Bill Lockyer.
The largest portion of the deal, $350 million due in September
2041, has a yield of 4.8 percent, 114 basis points above a 30-
year index of top-rated tax-exempt bonds. The terms on the
second day of the retail sale were unchanged from the first day,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the pricing.  Record Lows  The 10-year index of top-rated municipals was little
changed at 2.09 percent today, up from 2.05 percent on Sept. 12,
the lowest level since January 2009, when Bloomberg’s data for
the securities begins. Yields on top-rated 30-year tax-exempts
rose to 3.66 percent after falling to 3.56 percent on Sept. 12,
also the lowest since Bloomberg records began.  California may pay higher borrowing costs in the future if
the federal government passes President  Barack Obama ’s job-
creation bill that includes lowering the  tax exemption  on
interest earned on municipal bonds for the highest earners to 28
percent from 35 percent.  Lockyer, a Democrat, on Sept. 16 estimated the state would
pay $7.7 billion more on future issuance for the life of the
securities, if lawmakers reduce the exemption.  California plans to sell $15 billion of bonds over this and
the next fiscal year, Lockyer said. That compares with $10.4
billion last year and $20.5 billion in 2009.  The state’s debt, including price changes and interest
income, returned 9.2 percent through Sept. 16, outperforming the
overall tax-exempt market by 120 basis points, according to S&P
Municipal Bond Indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  