-- 
Canadian Dollar Drops as Greek Debt Crisis Saps Demand for Riskier Assets

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-09-19T21:10:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/canadian-dollar-drops-as-greek-debt-crisis-saps-demand-for-riskier-assets.html
Canada’s dollar dropped the most in
more than a month against its U.S. counterpart on concern  Greece 
may not receive an installment of aid, crimping demand for
higher-yielding assets.  “Greece is scaring people, and every asset that has risk
associated to it is taking a hit,” said Jerome Bernier,
managing director of foreign exchange at National Bank Financial
Inc. in Montreal. “Safe-haven flows are going into the  U.S.
dollar .”  The Canadian dollar depreciated 1.3 percent to 99.07 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 97.81 cents
on Sept. 16. Earlier it fell as much as 1.5 percent, the biggest
decline since a 1.8 percent drop on Aug. 10. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0094.  The U.S. currency also rose against all except one of its
16 most-traded peers, the yen. It gained ground against the
euro, the Australian dollar and the South African rand.  Yields on  Canada ’s 10-year government bonds fell 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 2.18 percent. The price of
the 3.25 percent security maturing in June 2021 rose 94 cents to
C$109.28.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1 percent and Canada’s
benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index declined 0.8 percent.  Raw Materials   Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, declined 2.3
percent to $85.92 a barrel in  New York  trading by 5 p.m. local
time. Copper for December delivery fell 3.8 percent to settle at
$3.7825 a pound on the Comex in New York, the biggest drop for a
most-active contract since Nov. 16. The metal has declined about
15 percent this year.  The loonie gained 1.2 percent versus the rand and 0.1
percent against the Aussie. Like Canada, Australia and  South
Africa  are commodities exporters.  “While the Canadian dollar may be underperforming the
U.S., it still looks less susceptible to weakness than the other
commodity currencies,”  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of
foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
said by phone from London. “In a risk-off, slow-growth
scenario, the Canadian dollar is probably going to do better.”  The loonie has gained against the currencies of other
commodities exporters this month even as it lost ground against
its U.S. namesake, in part because investors such as central
banks have been buying Canadian dollar assets to diversify their
foreign-exchange reserves, said  Camilla Sutton , chief currency
strategist at  Scotia Capital  in Toronto.  Reserve Diversification  “Diversification flows are working in our favor and
limiting the downside we would normally see,” Sutton said in a
telephone interview. “Canada is a small open economy with
relatively strong sovereign position. For central banks seeking
to diversify their foreign exchange reserves, the Canadian
dollar is increasingly an attractive play for a small percentage
of reserves.”  Canada’s dollar is the “next-best option” available to
currency investors while traditional havens such as the Swiss
franc and the yen are closed off,  David Bloom , global head of
currency strategy in  London  at HSBC Holdings Plc, wrote today in
a note to clients. He based his assessment on factors such as
inflation control, public finances and current-account
performance.  “The Canadian dollar does appear to come out on top but
only because of the issues facing the other currencies,” Bloom
wrote in the note. “The case for it is far from overwhelming.
The conclusion has to be that, in the foreign-exchange market,
there is no place to hide, and there will probably be further
upward pressure on the price of gold.”  Gold Price  Gold for immediate delivery has gained about 25 percent
since the start of the year.  The loonie has weakened 1.7 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a gauge of 10
developed-nation currencies. The greenback has declined 2.6
percent, while the yen has gained 3.8 percent and the Swiss
franc 4 percent.  Investors are concerned Greece won’t meet the conditions to
receive a sixth tranche of loans from its first bailout due in
October and a second rescue package.  “Greece continues to spiral, and the market is starting to
lose patience,”  David Watt , senior currency strategist at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
“European leaders don’t seem to be able to come up with any
kind of a solution. They’re the gang that can’t shoot straight,
and that doesn’t help the confidence.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  