-- 
Canada July Building Permits Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-09-19T13:31:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/canada-july-building-permits-report-text-.html
(Corrects story originally published Sept. 8 to reflect
 Statistics Canada  changes to their figures.)  Following is the text of the
July building permits report from Statistics Canada.  The value of building permits edged down 0.6% to $6.6 billion in
July, following increases of 2.8% in June and 20.9% in May.
Lower construction intentions for the non-residential sector
were partially offset by gains in the residential sector.  In the residential sector, the value of permits nationally rose
2.4% to $3.9 billion, the third consecutive monthly gain. The
increase occurred largely as a result of advances in the value
of multi-family and single-family dwellings in Ontario,  Alberta 
and Quebec.  After two consecutive monthly gains, permits in the non-
residential sector decreased 4.5% to $2.7 billion. Declines in
 Quebec  and Manitoba were partially offset by advances in the
eight other provinces.  The total value of building permits increased in six provinces,
led by Ontario. The largest decline occurred in Quebec, where
building intentions fell in the non-residential sector following
gains the previous three months.  Non-residential sector: Decrease in the industrial component
In the industrial component, the value of permits declined 40.1%
in July to $368 million, following a large increase in June. The
decline was mostly a result of lower construction intentions for
utility buildings and transportation facilities in Ontario and
for manufacturing plants in Quebec. Industrial intentions fell
in four provinces, led by Ontario and Quebec.  Note to readers
Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations.  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population are
very small, and their levels of building activity have little
impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan area of
Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is divided into two areas:
Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference month.
Revised data, based on late responses, are updated for the
previous month.  In the institutional component, construction intentions rose
17.1% to $758 million in July, the third consecutive monthly
increase. Intentions were up in four provinces, led by permits
for educational facilities in Ontario and Saskatchewan.  In the commercial component, the value of permits remained
largely unchanged at $1.6 billion, following a 16.0% decline in
June. Gains in seven provinces were offset by declines in
Quebec, Manitoba and Prince  Edward Island .  Residential sector: Increase in construction intentions in
Ontario and Alberta
The value of building permits for single-family dwellings
increased for a second consecutive month, up 3.4% from June to
$2.3 billion in July. The advance was a result of higher
construction intentions in Alberta and Ontario. Manitoba, on the
other hand, posted the largest decrease in single-family
construction intentions following two months of gains.  Municipalities issued $1.6 billion in building permits for
multiple-family dwellings in July, up 1.0%, following a small
decline in June. Permit values rose in six provinces, with
Ontario, Quebec and Alberta accounting for most of the increase.
After a substantial gain in June, British Columbia recorded the
largest decline in multi-family construction intentions.  Municipalities across  Canada  approved 17,738 new dwellings, up
3.0% from June. The gain was the result of a 4.0% increase in
multi-family dwellings to 10,629 units. The number of single-
family dwellings rose 1.5% to 7,109 units.  Ontario posts the biggest gain
The total value of building permits increased in six provinces
in July.  Ontario posted the largest increase, its third consecutive month
of gains. The increase was mostly attributable to higher
construction intentions for commercial and institutional
buildings and to lesser extent multi-family dwelling permits.  Alberta posted the second highest increase in July, mostly from
gains in single-family dwelling and commercial permits.  The largest decline in the value of building permits was in
Quebec, following two months of gains. Declines in all three
non-residential components exceeded an increase in the value of
the residential permits.  Strong intentions in Toronto
The total value of permits increased in 16 of the 34 census
metropolitan areas in July.  The largest increases occurred in Toronto and  Edmonton . In
Toronto, most of the increase originated from multi-family
dwellings and institutional permits. In Edmonton, the gain came
mainly from higher construction intentions for single-family
dwellings.  The largest declines occurred in Montréal,  London  and Calgary.
The declines in Montréal and Calgary came primarily from permits
for commercial buildings, while in London, the main factor was a
decline in institutional permits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  