-- 
Capital One Touts ING Direct USA Acquisition

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-20T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/capital-one-says-ing-direct-usa-purchase-reduces-systemic-risk.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , aiming
to overcome opposition to its takeover of  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s online
U.S. bank, said the deal would cut risk to the financial system.  “The acquisition of ING Direct will further reduce, rather
than increase, any risk to the financial system, as well as the
overall risk profiles of both institutions on a stand-alone
basis,” John Finneran, general counsel at McLean, Virginia-
based Capital One, said in prepared remarks for a Federal
Reserve hearing in  Washington .  The central bank is holding the first of three hearings to
let consumers comment on Capital One’s $9 billion purchase of
ING Direct USA. Groups that advocate for consumer rights and
affordable housing, including the National Community
Reinvestment Coalition, have pushed to halt the deal, saying it
would create another “too-big-to-fail” financial institution.  Capital One, led by Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank, 61, has sought to weaken opposition to the transaction
that was announced in June and is set to be completed by early
2012. Neither bank trades derivatives, creates credit-default
swaps, devises structured products or acts as a dealer in
financial markets, Finneran said.  “Capital One will strengthen ING Direct’s balance sheet by
expanding its asset generation capabilities,” Finneran said.
“At the same time, ING Direct’s deposits will supplement
Capital One’s access to stable, lower-cost funding.”  Capital One, which derives more than half its revenue from
credit-card lending, will start offering a 30-year, fixed-rate
mortgage to ING customers, Finneran said.  Dodd-Frank  The transaction threatens the goals of the Dodd-Frank Act,
the NCRC said in a letter this month to Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . The group
and U.S. Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat
who co-sponsored the financial-regulatory overhaul legislation
that bears his name, asked the Fed to hold hearings and extend
the public-comment period on the deal.  The Fed, required by Dodd-Frank to consider whether mergers
would result in “greater or more concentrated risks” to the
banking or financial system, complied. The central bank
scheduled additional hearings in  Chicago  and San Francisco and
extended the comment period to Oct. 12 from Aug. 22.  The NCRC said in an Aug. 16 letter to the Fed that the
coalition “strongly disputes” Capital One’s claims that the
bank has a proven record of meeting the needs of the communities
it serves. The coalition said there is “evidence of
discriminatory treatment of minorities” in Federal Housing
Administration-insured loans and criticized the bank’s handling
of a program known as the Hardest Hit Fund, which is designed to
cope with foreclosures and housing-price drops.  $180 Billion  Finneran disputed both claims, saying Capital One already
has agreed with the NCRC to lower its minimum FICO score for FHA
loans from 620 to 580 even as that involves greater risk, and
said no borrowers eligible for the Treasury Department’s Hardest
Hit Fund had been denied.  Capital One also will make $180 billion in new community-
development loans and investments over the next decade,
including $28.5 billion in home lending to borrowers or
neighborhoods characterized as low- and moderate-income, Dorothy
Broadman, head of community development banking, said in
separate remarks for today’s hearing.  Capital One said it may have to pay a termination fee of
$270 million if the deal falters, according to a June regulatory
filing. The European Union forced Amsterdam-based ING Groep to
sell its U.S. online bank as a condition of a 10 billion euro
($14.7 billion) government bailout.  “The issue is not whether an acquisition should occur, but
rather who the acquirer will be,” Finneran said. “The only
viable alternative to an acquisition by Capital One would have
been a sale of ING Direct to a larger and more complex
institution or a more interconnected foreign bank, which would
have created a substantially greater probability of heightened
risk to the financial system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 