-- 
Cattle Seen at Record $1.36 per Pound as Drought Reduces Herd: Commodities

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-20T20:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/cattle-seen-at-record-1-36-per-pound-as-drought-reduces-herd-commodities.html
Texas  cattle ranchers, the biggest
suppliers in the world’s top beef-producing nation, will cull
the most breeding cows ever this year as drought increases feed
costs, driving livestock prices to a record.  Cattle futures that gained 18 percent in the past year in
Chicago may reach an all-time high of $1.36 a pound in as few as
seven months, said  Rich Nelson , the director of research at
McHenry, Illinois-based Allendale Inc., who has been studying
agricultural markets since 1997. Feed costs have surged, with
corn heading for the highest annual average price ever.  The 11 months through August were the driest since at least
1895 in Texas, and the state’s farm losses may top $5.2 billion.
Ranchers may sell or slaughter 500,000 beef cows they would
normally keep for breeding because it’s too expensive to feed
them,  Texas A&M University  estimated. Tighter supply in the
$51.5 billion U.S. cattle industry is boosting global meat costs
already rising faster than any other food group.  “We’re going to be talking about a historically large
reduction in beef-cow numbers,” said  David Anderson , an
economist at the university’s Texas AgriLife Extension Service
in  College Station , Texas, who has been following the livestock
industry for almost two decades. “If nothing else changes,
that’s tighter supplies and less beef and higher prices.”  Global food prices are within 3 percent of the record
reached in February, according to a United Nations gauge of 55
commodities. The meat component of the index has more than
doubled since 2002 and is up 8.7 percent this year, more than
the changes in dairy, cereals, sugar, oils and fats.  Topping Record  Nelson’s forecast of $1.36 a pound is for the April
contract traded on the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange. Futures for
December delivery rose 1.1 percent to settle at $1.192 at 1 p.m.
in Chicago. The record for a most-active contract is $1.21625 on
April 4. Cattle, while up twice as much as hogs in the past
year, trailed the 21 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge of commodities as silver, gasoline and gold rose more than
38 percent.  Corn, the biggest ingredient in livestock feed, surged 36
percent on the Chicago Board of Trade in the past year, while
cattle gained 18 percent. Prices averaged $6.995 a bushel since
the start of January. In June, corn was the most expensive
relative to cattle in almost three years. U.S. corn yields will
drop to a six-year low, the government said Sept. 12.  ‘Exceptional’ Drought  The U.S. Drought Monitor estimates 88 percent of Texas is
suffering from  “exceptional”  drought. Ninety-eight percent of
pastures are in poor or very poor condition, government data
show. A 1,000-pound (454-kilogram) bale of hay costs $70 to
$100, up from $30 to $35 a year ago, said Bill Hyman, the
executive director of the Independent Cattlemen’s Association of
Texas, which represents about 8,000 ranchers.  The largest share of beef cows leaving Texas this year will
be slaughtered, while the rest will be sold or moved to states
with better pastures, Anderson said. As those animals depart,
high feed costs mean fewer replacement heifers will be brought
into the herd this year, he said.  Ranchers typically start feeding animals hay in December or
January, when temperatures drop and the grass dies, Hyman said.
This year, some farmers haven’t stopped feeding hay since winter
as grass withered, he said.  Farms are sending young cattle to feedlots earlier than
normal and slaughtering more beef cows because pastures have no
grass, said  Ron Plain , a livestock economist at the University
of  Missouri  in Columbia. With fewer cows left for breeding, the
herd will produce less calves next year, he said.  Fatten on Feedlots  Feedlots buy year-old animals that weigh 500 pounds to 800
pounds, called feeders. The cattle are fattened on corn for
about four to five months until they weigh about 1,200 pounds,
when they are sold to meatpackers.  The increased cull may mean accelerated meat supply in the
next several months, limiting the rally in prices. The rising
slaughter rate and movement of animals into feedlots indicate
there will be “adequate supplies” into the first quarter of
2012 to meet demand, Allendale’s Nelson said. That means a
“moderate  bull market ” in cattle futures will accelerate in
the second quarter of 2012 as supply contracts, he said.  U.S. exporters shipped 1.6 billion pounds (729,000 metric
tons) of beef in the seven months through July 31, 27 percent
more than a year earlier, government data show. The biggest
buyers were  Canada ,  Mexico  and  Japan .  Export Supply  “The higher prices that will result from this drought will
cap upside potential in beef exports,” said  Jim Robb , the
director of the Livestock Marketing Information Center, a
Denver-based research organization. “We just won’t have
supplies to support significant further growth in exports.”  Tighter supplies will mean higher prices.  Texas Roadhouse
Inc. (TXRH) , based in Louisville,  Kentucky , already raised prices at
its steakhouses twice this year. The company has more than 350
restaurants across 46 states, each with a butcher cutting about
300 pounds of beef a week. Atlanta-based Wendy’s Co. is adding
more chicken products on its menus as “significant increases”
in beef costs pressured profit margins.  Ground beef in the U.S. averaged $2.819 a pound in August,
the highest since at least 1984, and boneless sirloin steak
prices were up 11 percent from a year earlier, according to
government data. Retail beef prices reached an all-time high in
August, the data show.  Beef will rise as much as 8 percent this year in the U.S.,
twice the rate of the increase in overall food costs and more
than any other food group, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates.  Leaner Herd  Increased commodity costs may force restaurants to charge
even more next year, said Peter Saleh, an analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group, an equity researcher and consultant in  New York .  “Drought, which results in leaner herd sizes and higher
beef prices, is definitely not a good sign for those guys,”
Saleh said. “I suspect restaurants will continue that trend in
2012 to raise prices.”  Per-capita beef supplies in the U.S. may shrink to 55.6
pounds next year, the lowest since at least 1955, according to
Livestock Marketing Information Center. The slaughter of beef
cows this year is the highest since 1996, Allendale estimates.  The drought reaches beyond Texas.  Oklahoma , the second-
biggest beef cow-producing state, had the  hottest  June through
August on record, with a statewide average temperature of 86.8
degrees Fahrenheit (30.4 Celsius), according to the Oklahoma
Climatological Survey.  Oklahoma Drought  The Oklahoma beef-cow herd may drop about 12 percent this
year, said Derrell Peel, an agricultural economist at Oklahoma
State University in Stillwater. That will be more than any other
previous drought-induced decline in the state, he said.  The U.S. cattle herd by July 1 totaled 100 million head,
the smallest for that time of year since at least 1973, the
government said in a  report  on July 22. The beef-cow herd in
Texas totaled 5.025 million as of Jan. 1, the lowest since 1963.  Jim Selman, an 80-year-old cattle rancher in Gonzales
County, Texas, said he is reducing his herd of 200 beef cows by
50 percent because it costs more to feed them than they would be
worth in a sale to a slaughterhouse.  “Even if we got rain tomorrow, we wouldn’t have grass
until April,” Selman said. “Rather than feed up the value of
my cows, I’m just going to go ahead and sell them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  