-- 
AT&T Sued by Cellular South Over Planned Purchase of T-Mobile

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-09-20T04:14:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/cellular-south-inc-sues-to-block-at-t-s-purchase-of-t-mobile.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  was sued by Cellular
South Inc., the ninth-largest wireless carrier by customers, in
an effort to block its acquisition of T-Mobile Inc. based on
claims their combined market power violates U.S. antitrust laws.  Cellular South, in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in  Washington , said the merger “threatens to
substantially lessen competition” and cause it significant
losses and damages.  “The merger of AT&T and T-Mobile is anticompetitive, and
will result in consumers facing higher prices, less innovation,
fewer choices and reduced competition,” Cellular South said in
its complaint.  Its lawsuit challenging the proposed $39 billion merger
between AT&T and T-Mobile comes after seven U.S. states on Sept.
16 joined the Justice Department’s lawsuit seeking to block the
transaction.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the market’s No. 3 player,
filed its own antitrust lawsuit challenging the merger a week
after the Justice Department’s Aug. 31 complaint.  “As this growing chorus of opposition shows, this proposed
transaction violates antitrust law and is not in the best
interests of consumers and the American economy,” Vonya McCann,
Sprint’s senior vice president of government affairs, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Protecting Itself’  Mike Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman, declined to comment
beyond what the company said when Sprint filed its lawsuit Sept.
6. “Sprint is more interested in protecting itself than it is
in promoting competition that benefits consumers,” AT&T said at
the time.  AT&T has said it will fight the lawsuits in court at the
same time as it explores settlement options with the  Justice
Department . AT&T has said the transaction will improve wireless
service and increase investments and jobs.  The merger would make Dallas-based AT&T the largest U.S.
wireless operator, ahead of  Verizon Wireless , and would cement
the dominance of the “Big Two” over regional carriers,
Cellular South said in its complaint. The company, a unit of
Ridgeland, Mississippi-based-Telapex Inc., said it “will find
it harder to secure both wireless devices at competitive prices
and times and nationwide roaming.”  Cellular South included T-Mobile’s parent,  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE) , and AT&T Mobility LLC as defendants in the complaint.  Closely held Telapex also owns Delta Telephone Co.,
Franklin Telephone Co. and Telepak Networks Inc.  The case is Cellular South Inc. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01690,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 