-- 
Chavez Decrees Nationalization of Gold Industry Amid Surging Bullion Price

-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 
2011-09-19T18:05:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/chavez-decrees-nationalization-of-gold-industry-amid-surging-bullion-price.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
ordered the nationalization of the gold industry and gave
companies 90 days to form joint ventures with the state as he
seeks to boost control over the nation’s metals producers.  The government will hold at least 55 percent of any joint
ventures, according to a decree in today’s Official Gazette. The
decree sets a royalty rate of 10 percent to 13 percent and says
that all Venezuelan gold production will be sold to the state.  Chavez first announced the nationalization of the industry
and plans to repatriate  Venezuela ’s foreign gold reserves on
Aug. 17. Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the state oil company, is
forming joint ventures with both state and publicly traded
companies to operate mines including Las Cristinas, which Chavez
confiscated from Canada’s Crystallex International Corp.  “The government will have a monopoly of gold production
and sales,” according to the decree. “All the gold that is
produced from mining operations in national territory will be
turned over to the Republic.”  Rusoro Mining Ltd. (RML) , a Vancouver-based company that produces
100,000 ounces a year of gold, said on Aug. 30 that it would
transfer its assets to a joint venture controlled by PDVSA, as
the Caracas-based company is called.  Venezuela produces 11 metric tons of gold a year, and
illegal miners extract an additional 10 to 11 tons a year,
Chavez said in May.  ‘No Dividends’  Chavez, who is currently in Cuba being treated for an
undisclosed type of cancer, on Sept. 17 approved $130 million of
new funding for the country’s state mining holding company
Corporacion Venezolana de Guayana.  The funds will be used to pay salaries and overtime owed to
workers, many of whom have been participating in strikes in
recent months, the ministry of mining and basic industries said
in a statement  today .  “It’s clear that the  mining industry  is not producing any
dividends for the state at the moment,” Chavez said on Sept.
17.  Mining Arbitration  Of 18 arbitration  cases pending  against Venezuela in the
World Bank’s International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Disputes, at least three of them are mining ventures including
Crystallex’s claim for almost $4 billion. Gold Reserve Inc., a
Spokane, Washington-based mining company, is seeking $2.1
billion in damages after its Las Brisas gold and copper project
was seized in May 2008.  The South American country, in an effort to boost stalled
production and take advantage of rising prices, last year
relaxed restrictions on gold exports to allow some companies and
joint ventures with the government to send as much as 50 percent
of their output abroad.  Gold futures for December delivery declined $38.50, or 2.1
percent, to $1,776.20 an ounce at 1:40 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  