-- 
Tchenguiz Trust May Sell U.K. Residential Unit After Kaupthing Settlement

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-09-20T11:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/tchenguiz-trust-may-sell-residential-unit-after-kaupthing-deal.html
Tchenguiz Family Trust, one of the
largest investors in U.K. real estate, may sell all or part of
its residential unit after settling a claim against Iceland’s
Kaupthing Bank hf.  “We are going to bring in one investor soon, a sovereign
wealth fund,” Vincent Tchenguiz, who advises the trust, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “How much I sell depends on
the price,” he said, declining to identify the possible buyer.  The trust, which Tchenguiz advises through closely held
Consensus Business Group Ltd., owns what are known as freeholds
on 250,000 U.K. residential properties, mainly apartments. The
trust collects annual rent in return for selling a lease, often
lasting 100 years, on each freehold.  The business had effectively been frozen since 2008, when
Kaupthing collapsed. Tchenguiz, 54, filed a 1.5 billion-pound
($2.4 billion) claim against the Reykjavik-based bank, which had
lent 100 million pounds secured by some of the rents. The
dispute was settled on Sept. 17 and announced yesterday,
Tchenguiz said. Details of the settlement weren’t disclosed.  “It constrained the business and made life difficult,”
Tchenguiz said. “We are now able to do what we want with all
our assets, which could result in a new financial model.”  The purchase of the freeholds was financed with 2 billion
pounds of debt, backed by a similar amount of inflation-linked
swaps.  “It is a question of how you value the cash flows over 100
years and what they are worth,” said Tchenguiz, who is being
advised by Lazard Ltd. That sort of asset could be attractive to
a cash buyer, he said.  U.K. Investigation  Tchenguiz and his brother Robert, 51, were arrested in
March by the U.K.’s  Serious Fraud Office , which is investigating
the bank’s collapse. Both were later released without charge.  Vincent Tchenguiz hired Ben Emmerson, the lawyer defending
Wikileaks founder Julian Assange against extradition
proceedings. Tchenguiz said the Serious Fraud Office breached
his human rights by misrepresenting facts about him to obtain a
search warrant, the Times of  London  said Sept. 7.  In documents filed in the  High Court  in London last month,
Tchenguiz stated that the SFO had said it had reasonable grounds
to believe he had secured the Kaupthing loan fraudulently. In a
separate statement in June related to Tchenguiz’s civil case
against it, Kaupthing said it knew about the valuation of the
rents and contradicted other SFO allegations, the  Daily
Telegraph  said Sept 6.  Kaupthing has yet to reach a settlement with Tchenguiz
Discretionary Trust, which is advised by Robert Tchenguiz.  In addition to the residential freeholds, Tchenguiz Family
Trust also owns commercial real estate including stakes in some
supermarkets operated by Tesco Plc and hotels managed by Hilton
Worldwide Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 