-- 
China Will Likely Limit Stimulus in Any Global Slump, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   P a u l   P a n c k h u r s t   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-09-19T08:17:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/china-may-add-728-billion-of-stimulus-in-global-slump-deutsche-bank-says.html
China ’s stimulus in any world
economic slump is unlikely to be more than half the nation’s
estimated 9.3 trillion yuan ($1.46 trillion) fiscal and monetary
expansion from November 2008 through 2010, Deutsche Bank AG said.  While highly speculative, a sketch of the government’s
possible response is emerging from “our discussions in China,”
Hong Kong-based economist  Ma Jun  said in a note dated Sept. 16.
The government would limit any measures because of the costs
associated with the previous package, including asset bubbles,
inflation and non-performing loans, Ma said.  China’s government is wrestling with elevated inflation and
the threat of a deeper economic slowdown because of the debt
crisis in Europe, the nation’s biggest export market, and
weakness in the  U.S. economy . Deutsche forecasts that China’s
growth may cool to 7.3 percent in the first quarter of next year
compared with 9.5 percent in the second quarter of 2011.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.4 percent as of the
11:30 a.m. local-time break in trading, set for the lowest close
in 14 months.  Stimulus measures would mostly be fiscal rather than
monetary, Ma added. Efforts to boost consumption could include
consumer vouchers, subsidies for  consumer goods , temporary cuts
in fees for electricity and water, and temporary tax breaks for
small businesses.  Housing, Agriculture  The government could allocate more investment to public
housing and “long neglected” agricultural infrastructure, Ma
said. He said that 40,000 dams, or about 45 percent of the total,
are in need of repair. The labor-intensive services sector could
be used to absorb workers from export industries, he said.  Wu Xiaoling , a former deputy central bank governor, said
that the  government shouldn’t expand monetary or fiscal
stimulus because of price pressures and central and local-
government debt. Her comments were published today by the
Financial News, the central bank’s newspaper.  Wu said  China’s economy  is highly likely to slow next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  