-- 
China Will Allow Loans to Some LGFVs for Public-Rental Housing Projects

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-19T17:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/china-allows-lending-to-some-lgfvs-for-public-rental-housing.html
China  will let financial
institutions lend to qualified local government financing
vehicles for public-rental housing projects, the government
said, citing a meeting presided over by Premier  Wen Jiabao .  “Banks and financial institutions may lend to qualified
public rental housing projects directly, or though qualified
LGFVs,” China’s central government said in a  statement  posted
on its website yesterday. “The central government will continue
to increase subsidies and the local governments also need to add
financial investments.”  China banned commercial banks from rolling over or renewing
their loans to local financing vehicles, the China Banking
Regulatory Commission said on July 27. The regulator also asked
banks to increase loans to local governments for the
construction of affordable housing.  Local governments in China, barred from directly selling
bonds or taking bank loans, set up more than 6,576 companies to
raise money for roads, sewage plants and subways. A June report
by the national auditor warned of repayment risks and said some
authorities had offered illegal guarantees for these companies,
known in China as local government financing vehicles.  The size of public-rental homes should be about 40 square
meters with rents set below market rates, according to
yesterday’s statement. The CBRC also said it will strengthen its
oversight of real-estate lending, particularly in so-called
second and third-tier cities, without elaborating.  China’s August new-home prices rose in all 70 cities
monitored for the first time this year, the National Bureau of
Statistics said on its Web site Sept. 18. Prices in Beijing
advanced 1.9 percent from a year earlier, while those in
 Shanghai , the nation’s financial center, increased 2.8 percent.
New home prices climbed in 67 out of 70 cities in the first half
this year, and were up in all except two in July.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  