-- 
China National Coal Told to Shut Shanxi Mines After Deaths

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-19T03:28:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/china-national-coal-told-to-shut-shanxi-mines-after-deaths-1-.html
China Coal Energy Co. plunged the
most in almost three years in  Hong Kong  trading after its parent
was ordered to cease operations in Shanxi province following a
fatal mine accident.  The unit of China’s second-biggest coal producer slumped 17
percent to HK$8.26 before trading was halted. The decline was
the biggest since the stock dropped almost 20 percent on Oct. 27,
2008. The benchmark  Hang Seng  index fell 2.2 percent.  China National Coal Group Corp. was ordered to cease
operations in Shanxi province in northern China after flooding
at a pit killed 10 people, Xinhua News Agency reported Sept. 17,
citing provincial Vice Governor Li Xiaopeng. Operations can
resume only after official inspections, the state media reported.  “The order may affect about 60 million tons-a-year of
China Coal’s capacity for probably two weeks,” said  Helen Lau ,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “This will be
bullish for Chinese coal prices and other producers like”
 Shenhua Group  Corp., she said.  The price of power-station coal at Qinhuangdao port, a
domestic benchmark, rose for the first time in 12 weeks to as
much as 840 yuan a ton as of Sept. 18, data from the China Coal
Transport and Distribution Association show. That’s 17 percent
higher than a year earlier. About 70 percent of China’s power
stations use coal as fuel.  Coal Output  China Coal’s output may still rise to 130 million metric
tons this year, said Lau of UOB-Kay Hian. That would be a 38
percent increase from its commercial coal output of 94.4 million
tons in 2010, based on figures in the company’s annual report.  “ Power plants  will start restocking by early October,”
she said. “Domestic prices will start to pick up because of
this development.”  The flooding occurred in Shanyin county on Sept. 16 and one
worker is still trapped in the mine, according to Xinhua.  The company will issue a statement on the situation to the
exchange around noon Hong Kong time, said Zhou Dongzhou, China
Coal’s Beijing-based board secretary. He declined to comment
further.  The company’s Shanghai-listed shares fell 6.2 percent to 9
yuan, the biggest decline since Nov. 12.  The State Council, China’s Cabinet, called for safety
checks on railways, coal mines and construction sites in July
after a high-speed train crash killed 40 people. The order to
halt operations in Shanxi on Sept. 17 comes as power plants
prepare to start replenishing coal stockpiles before winter
demand for electricity.  Shanxi Coal  Shanxi produced 740 million tons of coal last year,
trailing the 782 million tons mined by  Inner Mongolia , China’s
top producing province, according to Xinhua in January. Shanxi
is also a coal-production center for Shenhua Group, parent of
China Shenhua Energy Co., and Datong Coal Mine Group Co., the
country’s largest and third-biggest producers, respectively.  This year there were 512 coal-mine accidents in China as of
June, 21 percent fewer than in the same period in 2010, while
the number of dead and missing fell 35 percent to 807, Xinhua
reported on June 29, citing the State Administration of Coal
Mine Safety.  The disaster three days ago exposed “serious problems” in
safety, said Shanxi’s Vice Governor Li, who pledged that the
authorities will thoroughly investigate the incident, according
to Xinhua. The mine is run by a subsidiary of state-controlled
 China  National Coal and produces 900,000 tons of coal a year,
Xinhua said.  In March last year, China blamed lapses in safety measures
at Wangjialing mine, also in Shanxi, for a flood that trapped
more than 100 workers. Thirty-two of them died.  --Chua Baizhen, Bonnie Cao and Ryan Woo. Editors: Amit Prakash,
Indranil Ghosh.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Woo in Singapore at +65-6311-2441 or
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  