-- 
China’s Stocks Fall to 14-Month Low on Tightening Concern, IPOs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-19T08:43:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/china-stock-futures-fall-on-tightening-concern-pending-initial-offerings.html
China ’s stocks fell to a 14-month
low after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the government will take
measures to control inflation and investors speculated pending
initial public offerings will sap demand for existing equities.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and Poly Real
Estate Group Co. paced declines by banks and developers as a
government report showing new-home prices increased in all
cities boosted odds of more monetary tightening.  Sinoma
International Engineering Co. (600970)  slid 2.4 percent on the prospect
Sinohydro Group Ltd.’s planned offering, China’s biggest in
almost a year, will divert funds from other construction stocks.  “The upcoming big IPOs are a major reason for the market
plunge, draining liquidity in the market,” said Tu Jun, a
strategist at  Shanghai  Securities Co. “It’s not a good time for
fund-raising but the government’s tight monetary policy has left
companies with no other choice.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, lost 44.5, or 1.8 percent, to 2,437.80
at the 3 p.m. close, the lowest since July 16, 2010. The gauge
retreated 0.6 percent last week, capping its eighth decline in
nine weeks. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 2 percent to 2,679.27 today.  The Shanghai gauge has slumped 13 percent this year,
extending last year’s 14 percent plunge, as the government
increased measures to cool inflation that’s at an almost three-
year high. The stock gauge is valued at 11.2 times estimated
profit, the lowest on record, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg dating back to January 2006.  Wen Comments  ICBC, the world’s largest bank by market value, slid 0.7
percent to 4.07 yuan, its lowest close since Sept. 6.  Shenzhen
Development Bank Co. (000001)  sank 2.4 percent to 16.60 yuan. Poly Real
Estate dropped 5.3 percent to 10.27 yuan, the most since Feb.
22. China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest developer by market
value, slipped 3.5 percent to 7.78 yuan.  Premier Wen said he is “concerned” about high prices and
the government will continue to take measures to control prices,
according to a statement on the government website after the
stock market closed on Sept. 16.  New-home prices rose in August in all 70 cities monitored
by the government for the first time this year as developers
watch policy directions before cutting prices. Prices in Beijing
rose 1.9 percent from a year ago, while those in Shanghai, the
nation’s financial center, increased 2.8 percent, the statistics
bureau said on its website yesterday.  Economic Challenges  China shouldn’t ease its monetary policy and could face
vicious inflation if it does, the Oriental Morning Post said,
citing  Wu Xiaoling , vice director of the finance and economy
committee of the National People’s Congress. China’s economic
growth faces large challenges in the fourth quarter and next
year as the global economic recovery slows, the newspaper said.  Sinoma International Engineering slid 2.4 percent to 25.95
yuan. Sinohydro plans to set a  price range  for its share sale
Shanghai on Sept. 23 and start selling as many as 3.5 billion
shares on Sept. 26, according to a statement. China’s biggest
builder of dams applied in July to raise funds for 17.3 billion
yuan ($2.7 billion) of projects.  Shaanxi Coal Industry Co., which also plans a 17.3 billion
yuan IPO, received approval last month, according to a statement
on the China Securities Regulatory Commission website on Aug.
29. Sany Heavy Industry Co. and Citic Securities Co. are pushing
ahead with share sales in  Hong Kong , where companies have
canceled or delayed a record $14 billion of equity offerings
this year as stock markets tumble.  Chinese stocks may weaken further on the prospect of more
IPOs, according to Manop Sangiambut, CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets’
head of China A-share research.  “IPOs and placements have also been a factor that has
drained liquidity from the main board,” he said in a media
briefing in Hong Kong. “We still believe there are many IPOs in
the pipeline so that may cause market weakness.”  BYD Slumps  BYD Co., the Chinese automaker part-owned by  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., lost 5.5 percent to 19.65
yuan, a record low since its listing on June 30. The automaker
may have to sell a record amount of bonds to pay off maturing
debt next year. Shareholders gave approval on Sept. 9 for BYD to
sell as much as 6 billion yuan of bonds with a maturity no
longer than 10 years.  PetroChina Co., the nation’s largest oil producer, lost 1.2
percent to 9.57 yuan. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest
producer of the metal, retreated 2.7 percent to 30.14 yuan.  Commodities fell to the lowest level in one week, led by
declines in copper and oil, after European policy makers failed
to introduce a plan to stem the region’s sovereign-debt crisis
and boost growth.  Greece ’s ability to avoid default hangs in the
balance this week as international monitors get set to assess
whether Prime Minister George Papandreou can meet the conditions
of rescue loans.  ‘Insane’  China would have to be “insane” to buy European
government debt at the moment and the country must do more to
rein in property prices, said  Christopher Wood , equity
strategist at CLSA.  Europe ’s debt crisis and China’s efforts to
cool inflation mean investors should “underweight”
commodities, he said at a Hong Kong conference.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  