-- 
Christo Battles for Permission to Cover 42 Miles of U.S. River: Interview

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-09-19T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/christo-battles-for-permission-to-cover-42-miles-of-u-s-river-interview.html
“Crossed fingers,” says Christo.  Soon, the U.S. government may -- or may not -- give the
final green light to a project on which the artist and his late
wife Jeanne-Claude began working in 1992. The proposal, named
“Over the River,” is for translucent fabric panels to be
suspended above sections of the 42-mile stretch of the Arkansas
River in  Colorado .  An announcement confirming approval is expected to be made,
Christo says, in October. If it goes ahead, “Over the River”
will exist for just a fortnight in August 2014. Many of Christo’s
most celebrated works are temporary; they have, he notes, “that
fleeting quality, the sense that it will be gone after two weeks
and will never exist again.” For the moment, he’s not sure it
will happen at all. “We’re in that edgy waiting period.”  He’s talking at an exhibition in the  Annely Juda Gallery  in
London, devoted to a half century of such wildly ambitious plans.
Over the years, Christo and Jeanne-Claude proposed such
improbable acts as wrapping large buildings and an entire
coastline in fabric. Another -- as yet unrealized -- project is
to erect a structure larger than the Great Pyramid in the desert
of  Abu Dhabi , composed of 410,000 multicolored oil barrels.  At 76 -- he and Jeanne-Claude were born on the same day,
June 13, 1935, in different countries -- Christo remains driven
by energy. Wiry, white-haired and casually dressed in an open
shirt, he talks rapidly with an accent that’s part Slavic, part
French. Born Christo Vladimirov Javacheff in  Bulgaria , he moved
to Paris in 1958 where he met Jeanne-Claude. They went to New
York in 1964.  Tenacious Artists  Christo is used to long waits, and to disappointments. Over
the past half century, he and Jeanne-Claude, who died in 2009,
have been through that process many times. “We have succeeded in
realizing 22 projects and we failed to get permission for 37.”
Often, the process is slow, “The Gates,” 7,503 temporary
saffron-colored portals along the paths of Central Park in  New
York , was first conceived in 1979, turned down in the 1990s, and
eventually appeared in February 2005.  In Colorado, “Over the River” ran into opposition on
environmental and safety grounds, but he claims to welcome the
debate as part of his kind of art. “Nobody discusses a painting
before it’s painted,” says Christo. “But our works of art are
discussed for months and years before they exist. Thousands think
they look awful, thousands more think they look beautiful.”  Christo seems to relish the setbacks as much as the
triumphs. In the mid-1960s, he and Jeanne-Claude proposed
wrapping an office block on Times Square. “It was the
headquarters of a company,” Christo says. “A friend of ours
took us to see the CEO. I showed him the model, he thought we
were complete lunatics.”  Engineering Projects  Startling as his proposals may seem, Christo is in some
respects highly practical. His conversation is full of
engineering details -- each project involved unique construction
problems -- and peppered with numbers. The initial planning
application for “Over the River,” he details, is 2,029 pages
long. “It cost us $1.5 million.”  All of Christo and Jeanne-Claude’s projects have been
financed by selling works, often drawings and plans for the
projects themselves. They have never accepted sponsorship or
donations, nor executed commissions. No work is ever repeated,
though occasionally one suggests another.  The inspiration for “Over the River” dates back to 1985
when they were wrapping the Pont Neuf in Paris. “At a certain
moment we saw the fabric held horizontally above the River Seine,
moving with the wind, the sun passing through it,” Christo says.
“That was the genesis.” Possibly, in a few years, rafters and
visitors will see something similar over the Arkansas River.  “Christo and Jeanne-Claude 40 Years -- 12 Exhibitions” is
at Annely Juda Fine Art, 23 Dering St.,  London , through Oct. 22.
Information:  http://www.annelyjudafineart.co.uk .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 