-- 
Chrysler Is Said to Push for Signing Bonuses of About $3,500 in UAW Pact

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-09-19T17:34:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/chrysler-said-to-push-for-signing-bonuses-around-3-500-for-uaw.html
Chrysler Group LLC, which hasn’t
turned an annual profit since its 2009 bankruptcy, is pushing
for a smaller signing bonus in labor negotiations with the
United Auto Workers than what  General Motors Co. (GM)  accepted,
according to two people familiar with the discussions.  Chrysler wants the signing bonus to be about $3,500, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
negotiations are private. Detroit-based GM agreed to pay $5,000
to each UAW member after the accord is ratified, two people
familiar with the deal have said.  The UAW negotiated its four-year agreement with GM
intending for it to serve as a framework for new contracts at
Chrysler and  Ford Motor Co. (F) , said  Harley Shaiken , labor
professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley. Chrysler
has a higher percentage of workers paid at entry-level wages,
which GM agreed to boost by $2 to $3 an hour, people said.  “It’s not unusual for the second company to raise a
different set of demands and that’s why these are never pro
forma negotiations,” he said today in a telephone interview.  Sergio Marchionne, chief executive of both Chrysler and
majority owner  Fiat SpA (F) , said he will return to the U.S.
tomorrow and is confident a deal will be reached “quickly.” He
declined to elaborate on the talks.  “We and GM are completely different,” he said today in
 Italy , adding that he hadn’t seen the GM agreement.  Chrysler, based in  Auburn Hills , Michigan, declined in an
e-mail to comment on details of the negotiations.  Michele
Martin , a  UAW  spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mailed request for comment.  Bottom Line  Chrysler, after a net loss of $652 million last year, aims
to turn its first annual profit this year of $200 million to
$500 million, excluding certain costs. It reported a first-
quarter net profit of $116 million and a $370 million loss in
the second quarter, including losses from paying off U.S. and
Canadian government loans early.  GM earned $6.17 billion in profit last year and $6.36
billion in the first half of this year.  As part of the deal, GM also agreed to boost wages for new
workers to $16 an hour from $14 and rise to a maximum of about
$19 from $16 in the previous contract, two people familiar with
the matter have said.  Entry-Level Workers  Fewer than 3 percent of GM’s hourly workers make second-
tier wages. Including benefits, those workers cost $30 an hour,
compared with $56 an hour for veteran assemblers whose wage is
about $28 an hour. Chrysler, with about 25,500 UAW-represented
employees, has said it has about 12 percent to 14 percent of its
workers at the entry-level rate.  The union’s contracts covering 113,000 workers at GM, Ford
and Chrysler expired Sept. 14 and were extended for all three
while negotiations continued. Chrysler and UAW negotiators met
over the weekend and continued talking today, a person familiar
with the talks said.  The UAW had proposed signing bonuses of $8,000 to $10,000
for each member, four people familiar with discussions have
said.  A large bonus may help sell the deal to union members
looking to be repaid for what UAW President  Bob King  has
estimated as $7,000 to $30,000 in concessions they each gave
since 2005.  Workers at GM, Ford and Chrysler received signing bonuses
of $3,000 after they ratified the current contract in 2007.
Prior to that, signing bonuses had been around $1,000, Shaiken
has said.  Ratification Challenge  Chrysler may have a hard time getting workers to ratify an
agreement that has a smaller signing bonus than GM’s, said  Gary Chaison , a professor of industrial relations at  Clark University 
in Worcester,  Massachusetts .  “If they offer a lesser signing bonus, they are flirting
with rejection,” he said. “I understand Marchionne’s need to
show that he’s doing something independent, that’s different,
and that may be his problem: In order to show the world that
he’s not just tagging along, he may have taken the most obvious
thing and pushed for less on it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  