-- 
Japan Tobacco Gains After Health Minister Says Prices Should Increase 75%

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-09-20T07:57:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/cigarette-prices-should-rise-75-japan-s-health-minister-says.html
Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) , the world’s
third-biggest publicly traded cigarette maker, climbed to the
highest in three years on speculation it can lift prices more
than the tax increases proposed by the health minister.  Japan  Tobacco rallied 5.4 percent to 368,000 yen, the
highest since October 2008, at the 3 p.m. close of trading in
Tokyo. It had the second-biggest advance today on the broader
Topix index, which declined 1.7 percent.  Tobacco taxes in Japan should be raised until the average
price of a pack of cigarettes is about 700 yen ($9.15), or 75
percent higher than the current level, to cut medical costs,
Health MinisterYoko Komiyama said. Smoking in Japan was
responsible for at least 4.3 trillion yen in medical costs and
economic losses in 2005, according to the Institute for Health
Economics and Policy.  “Tax increases will lead to Japan Tobacco’s profit
growth,” said Mikihiko Yamato, a research partner at Japan
Invest KK who recommends buying the stock. “If the price is
over 500 yen, it will damage the sales of tobacco, but cigarette
companies can still raise profit when their price increases
reflect the higher costs.”  The ministry, which is participating in a tax panel session,
will push for increasing tobacco levies by 100 yen annually for
three years, Komiyama said in a Sept. 16 interview. Most panel
members agreed with the idea last year, she said.  Underage Smokers  “At that level, we can expect people who want to quit
smoking to stop, while maintaining the level of  tax revenue ,”
said Komiyama, 63, who became minister on Sept. 2. “It’s also
the best way to prevent underage smoking.”  Almost 10 percent of Japanese under 20 years old had smoked
at least once, with 1.2 percent of them smoking every day,
according to a study funded by the health ministry in 2007.  Efforts to raise duties have been complicated by government
ownership of a controlling stake in Japan Tobacco and concerns
that tax revenue may decline for a country facing the world’s
largest public debt.  “When raising prices because of a tax increase, Japan
Tobacco will offer prices that obviously exceed taxes they
pay,” Yoshifumi Kikuchi, head of dealing at Nissan Century
Securities Co., said today by phone. “If there’s a tax increase
this time, though unrealistic, sales volumes will decline, but
the amount of sales will grow.”  ‘Easier’ for Business  The tax panel, led by Finance Minister Jun Azumi, proposes
reducing the government’s stake in Japan Tobacco to a third from
about half, he said Sept. 16. The maker of Mild Seven and Camel
cigarettes has gained 22 percent this year in Tokyo trading,
giving it a market value of 3.7 trillion yen, or $48 billion.  A sale of the government stake in Japan Tobacco “will make
it easier for the company to do business,” Japan Invest KK’s
Yamato said.  The average price of a pack of 20 cigarettes increased by
33 percent last October to 400 yen, or about $5.20. That
compares with the average price of $10.80 in  New York City ,
where taxes were raised in July 2010.  Japan Tobacco forecast an 11 percent increase in profit
this fiscal year after raising prices in  Russia  and other
overseas markets. Net income in the year ended March rose 4.7
percent to 145 billion yen, beating analysts’ estimates.  Japan Tobacco Executive Deputy President Masakazu Shimizu
said the government should “think cautiously” before raising
taxes. Tobacco consumption is declining by 4 percent to 5
percent annually, and this may accelerate to as much as 7
percent if taxes are raised, he said.  DPJ Manifesto  One of every four adults in Japan smoked in 2009, according
to Japan Tobacco. That’s down from one in three in 2000.
Cigarette sales volume fell after a tax increase in October
pushed up prices, Japan Tobacco has said.  The proposal to increase taxes is in accordance with  the
manifesto  of the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan, Komiyama said.
The manifesto calls for abolishing a law that the government own
more than half of Japan Tobacco’s outstanding shares and says
tobacco-related issues should be included in the “health
agenda,” she said.  6 Million Deaths  The cigarette maker said Sept. 6 it wants the government to
sell its shares and use the funds to finance reconstruction
after a March 11 earthquake and tsunami left more than 20,000
people dead or missing. The Children’s Investment Fund
Management UK LLP, the London hedge fund founded by Christopher Cooper-Hohn, has been lobbying for Japan Tobacco to buy back
shares and raise dividends.  Central and regional governments raise about 2 trillion yen
in tax revenue each year from tobacco, according to the  finance
ministry .  In the U.S., one of every five adults smokes cigarettes,
according to  the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
Smoking was estimated to be responsible for $193 billion in
annual health-related economic losses in the U.S. between 2000
and 2004, according to the CDC.  Tobacco-related illnesses comprise one of the biggest
public-health threats and kill almost 6 million people a year,
including 600,000 non-smokers, according to  the World Health
Organization .  Japan’s health ministry also will submit legislation at the
session requiring businesses to ban smoking or provide separate
smoking sections, Komiyama said. “I’m not stopping people from
shortening their lives themselves,” she said. “But I don’t
want to let them cause trouble for others.”  Komiyama, an anchorwoman for public broadcaster NHK for
more than 20 years, began advocating anti-smoking measures when
she became a lawmaker in 1998 and found other legislators smoked
in the parliament buildings and at meetings.  “I walked around with a sign that said ‘no smoking at my
table’ to every meeting I attended,” Komiyama said. “Then many
lawmakers who didn’t enjoy the smoke began sitting near me.
That’s how this started.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  