-- 
Clooney’s Land Baron, McConaughey’s Hit Man Lauded in Toronto

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/clooney-s-land-baron-mcconaughey-s-hit-man-woody-s-cop-lauded-in-toronto.html
My neck was stiff and my eyes were
blurry after watching 18 movies in six days at the Toronto
International Film Festival. Only bats spend more time in the
dark than critics at movie festivals.  Here are my picks and pans from the event, which ended
yesterday:  PICKS  “ The Descendants ”:  George Clooney  stars in this dramedy
about a Hawaiian real-estate baron in turmoil after his wife is
severely injured in a boating accident. Alexander Payne’s first
feature since “Sideways” (2004) is witty, moving and full of
surprises. Clooney is terrific, and so are Shailene Woodley and
Amara Miller as his two difficult daughters. (I wasn’t so
enthusiastic about Clooney’s other Toronto film, the political
thriller “ The Ides of March .”)  “ Killer Joe ”: William Friedkin directed this shocking
black comedy about a drug dealer (Emile Hirsch) who hires a hit
man ( Matthew McConaughey ) to murder his mother. McConaughey’s
deadpan performance as the hired killer is chillingly funny.
Beware of scenes involving a pumpkin can and a piece of fried
chicken.  “ Butter ”: A satire that reminded me of a Christopher Guest mockumentary, Jim Field Smith’s side-splitting film
chronicles an Iowa butter-carving contest featuring a cutthroat,
super-patriotic housewife (Jennifer Garner), a foul-mouthed
stripper (Olivia Wilde) and a precocious foster child named
Destiny (Yara Shahidi).  Corrupt Cop  “ The Oranges ”: Hugh Laurie and Oliver Platt play
neighbors and best friends in this playful look at the seamy
side of suburbia. Laurie has an affair with Platt’s college-age
daughter, who is being pressured by her mom (Allison Janney) to
hook up with Laurie’s son. Alia Shawkat steals scenes as
Laurie’s caustic daughter.  “ Rampart ”: The underrated Woody Harrelson is a brutally
corrupt Los Angeles cop with an unusual domestic setup: He lives
with two sisters (Anne Heche and  Cynthia Nixon ), both of whom
have borne him a daughter. Director Oren Moverman, who made
“The Messenger” with Harrelson, captures the city’s underbelly
with a neo-noirish style reminiscent of  Michael Mann . The strong
cast includes Robin Wright,  Ned Beatty ,  Ben Foster ,  Sigourney Weaver  and Ice Cube.  Coppola’s Nightmare  PANS  “ Twixt ”:  Francis Ford Coppola  says this gothic horror
story came to him in a dream. The result is a nightmare, an
embarrassing effort from the man who once made classics like the
first two “Godfather” movies, “The Conversation” and
“Apocalypse Now.” Val Kilmer plays a hack writer who, while
trying to solve a small-town murder mystery, encounters Edgar Allan Poe’s ghost. Poe would no doubt wince at this travesty.  “ Peace, Love, & Misunderstanding ”: Sure, it’s kind of
cute to see  Jane Fonda  playing a hippy grandmother who wears
flowered dresses, smokes pot and sleeps around in -- where else?
-- Woodstock, New York. But Bruce Beresford’s film about
grandma’s reunion with her uptight, estranged daughter
(Catherine Keener) and her two grandchildren (Elizabeth Olsen,
Nat Wolff) is packed with more cliches than a freshman English
essay.  ‘Hysteria’ Treatment  They’re neither picks nor pans, but “ Hysteria ” and “ The
Skin I Live In ” deserve mention as the strangest stories in
Toronto.  “Hysteria” is about a young doctor (Hugh Dancy) in 1880s
 London  who calms stressed-out women by massaging their private
parts -- apparently a common practice in uptight Victorian
society. The doctor eventually switches to using a vibrator on
his patients, giving new meaning to a film having buzz.  In Pedro Almodovar’s “The Skin I Live In,” a plastic
surgeon (Antonio Banderas) kidnaps his daughter’s rapist and
uses artificial skin to turn the guinea pig into a carbon copy
of his late wife. It made my skin crawl.  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 