-- 
Colder October-December Weather May Boost Gas Demand, WSI Says

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-19T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/colder-october-december-weather-may-boost-gas-demand-wsi-says.html
The northern and eastern U.S. will
probably be cooler than normal from October to December,
increasing natural gas consumption, according to a joint
forecast by Weather Services International and Energy Security
Analysis Inc.  A cooling in the Pacific known as La Nina may act with
pressure differentials and atmospheric blocking in the Atlantic
Ocean to lower temperatures along the U.S. East Coast, said  Todd Crawford , WSI’s chief meteorologist.  “While October should be relatively mild across much of
the U.S., below-normal temperatures will become more common in
the eastern U.S. in November and across all of the northern U.S.
by December,” Crawford said in a statement.  Natural gas traders use long-range temperature predictions
to gauge energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather
can increase demand for heating and cooling, and  power plants 
use about 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according to
Energy Department data.  Maintenance of coal and nuclear-powered generating plants
will put more demand on natural gas-fired electric plants in
October, said Paul Flemming, director of power and gas services
at Energy Security Analysis, a market research company based in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts .  Flemming said that because of increased gas demand in
October, he doubts inventories will reach last year’s record of
3.84 trillion cubic feet. The inventory will probably be 3.65
trillion at the end of the current injection season, he said.  “In December, much-colder-than-normal temperatures across
the northern tier of the U.S. will result in much higher heating
demand for gas,” Flemming said in the statement. “Typically,
early-season cold weather indicators are bullish for gas prices,
as a long-term cold stretch starting in December could
significantly reduce gas inventories.”  Andover, Massachusetts-based WSI also predicted colder-
than-normal weather across the U.K. and Western Europe from
October to December, which will increase energy demand there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  