-- 
Colorado Sues State Pension Plan Demanding Recipients’ Data

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-19T22:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/colorado-employees-pension-plan-sued-by-state-treasurer.html
Colorado ’s public employee pension
plan was sued by state Treasurer Walker Stapleton, who asked for
a court order directing it to turn over data on its top
beneficiaries, according to Attorney General John Suthers.  Suthers sued the Public Employees Retirement Association
and 14 trustees today in state court in Denver, a spokesman for
the attorney general, Mike Saccone, said in an e-mailed
statement. The filing could not immediately be independently
confirmed.  Stapleton -- a statutory pension plan trustee -- sued the
system after being rebuffed in efforts to learn how much money
is paid annually to the top 20 percent of beneficiaries, their
age and year of retirement, as well as their final five years of
salaries. He was not seeking their identities.  “PERA currently maintains a $21 billion unfunded
liability, an amount that shows the gap between the benefits due
to retirees and the available funds,” the treasurer said in a
press statement announcing the filing.  Established by the state’s legislature in 1931, the
retirement association counts among its membership more than
201,000 active workers and about 94,000 benefit recipients.  $38 Billion in Assets  Managing more than $38 billion in assets, it paid out more
than $3.1 billion last year, according to its  website . It is the
21st-biggest U.S. public pension plan.  “We haven’t seen the lawsuit so we can’t provide
comment,” Katie Kaufmanis, a spokeswoman for the association,
said when reached by phone.  Stapleton, a Republican, took office in January. He
requested the pension plan information in a June 3 letter,
according to the complaint and reiterated his request on July
11.  Reacting to the request, PERA obtained a legal opinion
letter from outside counsel concluding that compliance with
Stapleton’s request would cause the plan -- and the treasurer as
a trustee -- to breach fiduciary duties owed plan members
including those of confidentiality and of acting solely in the
members’ interest.  “It is our opinion that the disclosure of member
information to Treasurer Stapleton in the form requested would
likely result in a breach of his fiduciary duty to the members
of PERA,” attorney John A. Nixon of Philadelphia-based Duane
Morris, wrote PERA board chairwoman Carole Wright on Aug. 25.  Denied Access  “The treasurer is entitled to a declaration that PERA and
defendant trustees have breached their fiduciary duty by
improperly and illegally denying the treasurer access to the
requested PERA records,” according to the complaint.  “Filing this lawsuit was the absolute last resort,”
Stapleton said in the press statement. “It is a sad state of
affairs when a board member has to turn to the court system to
gain access to information that will allow him or her to make
more informed decisions.”  The case is Stapleton v. Public Employees Retirement
Association, Denver County, Colorado, District Court (Denver).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  