-- 
Commodities Fall on Europe Debt Worries

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-09-19T21:49:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/copper-oil-lead-commodity-drop-on-slowdown-concern-gold-gains.html
Commodities fell the most in a
month as gains in the dollar eroded demand for raw materials
amid concern that  Greece  may fail to qualify for more financial
aid needed to avoid default.  Greece’s  Finance Ministry  said it had a “productive and
substantive discussion” with international officials who will
determine if the country qualifies for further bailout funds.
The dollar rose as much as 1.2 percent against a basket of six
major currencies, eroding the appeal of raw materials.  “Today was more about dollar strength driven by the
deteriorating global economy,” James Dailey, who manages $215
million at TEAM Financial Management LLC in Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , said in a telephone interview. “Traders were
moving away from riskier assets.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index dropped 14.14, or 2.2
percent, to 638.96, the biggest decline since Aug. 18. Copper
futures for December delivery tumbled the most in 10 months,
while crude-oil futures for November delivery declined $2.26, or
2.6 percent, to $85.70 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The price is down 6.2 percent this year.  “Industrial and end-users and consumers in the wholesale
sense are in a wait-and-see mode,” said Gary Mead, an analyst
at VM Group in  London . “It’s clearly the fact that there’s no
decision on the table for the end of the euro crisis. There’s a
tremendous amount of fear out there.”  Extending Slump  The S&P GSCI Spot Index has tumbled 5.3 percent this month,
after losing 1.7 percent in August. Concerns that there may be
an economic slowdown in the  euro zone  and the U.S. have
outweighed the effects of constrained supplies of crude and
copper. A report this week may show U.S. home construction
dropped to a three-month low.  Finance chiefs from the euro region said last week the 18-
month debt crisis leaves no room for tax cuts or extra spending
to spur an economy on the brink of stagnation. Reports this week
on  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, are forecast to show a
decline in investor confidence and a slowdown in manufacturing.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  called for $1.5 trillion in tax
increases over the next decade to help trim the deficit, and
Federal Reserve policy makers will discuss the economy at a two-
day meeting starting tomorrow.  Global Traction  Money managers cut their net-long positions in 18
commodities by 5.2 percent to 1.21 million futures and options
contracts in the week ended Sept. 13, government data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That was the first drop since early August.  “People are becoming more concerned about demand
prospects, especially with a weakening economic point of view,”
said Michael Banks, a researcher at London-based Hermes
Commodities, which manages $1.9 billion in assets. “This
economic weakening is pervasive across all markets.”  Gold futures for December delivery dropped 2 percent to
$1,778.90 an ounce on the Comex in  New York , the lowest closing
price since Aug. 25.  Wheat futures for December delivery slipped 2.2 percent to
$6.73 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, after touching a
two-month low, and soybean futures for November delivery fell
1.4 percent to $13.36 a bushel, capping a six-session slump that
was the longest since May 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  