-- 
Corporate Jets Face Flight Fee in Obama Plan

-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 
2011-09-19T21:17:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/corporate-jets-face-100-per-flight-fee-in-obama-deficit-plan.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration proposed a $100 per-flight fee on corporate jets
and other turbine-powered planes that use the U.S. air-traffic
system.  The fee would raise an estimated $11 billion over 10 years,
according to the president’s recommendations to the 12-member
congressional committee charged with finding ways to trim the
deficit. The fee is aimed at private aircraft, which currently
don’t pay their fair share of costs of operating the aviation
system, the administration said today.  About two-thirds of the air-traffic system is paid for by
aviation excise taxes, including levies on airline tickets and
on fuel. Last year these taxes raised $10.8 billion, according
to the Department of Transportation.  There is a disparity between what airlines and their
passengers pay into the system and what users of private
aircraft pay,  the plan  said.  An airline flight from  Los Angeles  to  San Francisco  would
generate $1,300 to $2,000 in taxes, depending on the number of
passengers and what they paid for tickets. A private jet, which
requires almost the same services from air-traffic controllers,
would pay about $60 in fuel taxes, the plan said.  “General aviation users currently pay a fuel tax, but this
revenue does not cover their fair-share use of air traffic
services,” the plan said.  Opposition Mounts  A coalition of nine U.S. associations representing users
and manufacturers of corporate and private aircraft issued a
joint statement “expressing our unified opposition” to the
proposal.  “Mr. President, many foreign countries have imposed per
flight charges on general aviation and the results have been
devastating,” the e-mail statement said. “Please do not go
down the dangerous path and cost jobs in our community.”  General-aviation pilots pay their fair share of fuel taxes
and a new fee would create “a costly new federal collection
bureaucracy,” the groups said.  The groups that issued the letter include the Washington-
based  General Aviation Manufacturers Association , whose members
include  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Gulfstream and  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s
Cessna; the Washington-based  National Business Aviation
Association , with members including PepsiCo Inc. and  Humana
Inc. (HUM) , the  Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association , based in
Frederick,  Maryland , which has more than 400,000 individual
members;  and the  Experimental Aircraft Association  in Oshkosh,
 Wisconsin .  NetJets Reacts  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s NetJets, the largest U.S. firm
selling fractional shares of corporate jets, issued a statement
from Chairman and Chief Executive Jordan Hansell agreeing with
the trade groups. NetJets, based in Columbus,  Ohio , has more
than 7,000 customers worldwide.  A similar proposal introduced by President  George W. Bush ’s
administration was defeated in Congress after opposition by the
same groups.  That plan, which was introduced in 2007, was supported by
the  airline industry , which argued that corporate aircraft
owners should pay a greater share. This time, the  Air Transport
Association , a Washington, D.C.-based group representing
airlines including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , has joined the
opposition.  “We oppose any new taxes on airlines or their
passengers,” ATA President  Nicholas Calio  said in a statement.  The Obama plan is aimed at pilots who fly under the
supervision of air-traffic controllers.  Nearly all small private, piston-powered planes wouldn’t
have to pay the fee, the proposal said. It would also exempt
aircraft operated by the military or other government agencies,
air ambulances and any flight that doesn’t require air-traffic
guidance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  