-- 
Sovereign Default Risk Surges as Greek Woes Put Paid to Rally

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-09-19T16:24:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/corporate-bond-risk-rises-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring European
sovereign debt rose, reversing a four-day rally, on concern a
default by  Greece  is becoming more likely after the region’s
leaders failed to agree on new measures to halt the crisis.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments rose 15 basis points to 340 at 5
p.m. in London, approaching the record 354 set Sept. 12. An
increase signals deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  Investors are concerned Greece won’t meet the conditions to
receive a sixth tranche of loans from its first bailout due in
October and a second rescue package. European Union and
International Monetary Fund inspectors are holding a conference
call today with Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos,
following a two-day meeting of EU finance ministers and central
bankers that ended Sept. 17.  “The meeting came up with pretty much nothing and clearly
disappointed markets,” said Anke Richter, a credit strategist
at Mizuho International in London. “This means that uncertainty
will continue as Greece needs the next tranche of the first
bailout package as it would otherwise run out of cash in early
October.”  Greece’s economy will shrink 5.5 percent this year and will
contract “notably” next year, Finance Minister Venizelos said
at a conference in  Athens  today. The government is targeting a
primary surplus next year, “which is possible if we implement
everything we have to,” Venizelos said.  Greece has cash reserves to cover its needs for October,
Deputy Finance Minister Filippos Sachinidis said Sept. 12.  Higher Risk  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 40
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings increased 32
basis points to 747, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose 10.75 basis points to 186.75. The
Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on the senior debt of 25
banks and insurers increased 24 basis points to 289, while the
subordinated index was up 27 basis points to 492.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.6 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  