-- 
Credit Suisse to Pay 150 Million Euros in Prosecutor Deal

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-09-19T10:42:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/credit-suisse-to-pay-eu150-million-in-dusseldorf-prosecutor-deal.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s second-largest bank, said it reached an agreement
with the Public Prosecutor’s Office in Dusseldorf,  Germany , to
end court proceedings against employees.  Credit Suisse will pay 150 million euros ($205 million) to
be booked in the third quarter, the Zurich-based bank said today
in an e-mailed statement. The agreement means that the entire
proceeding will be resolved, according to Credit Suisse.  Bank employees were investigated in Germany for allegedly
helping some German clients evade taxes. Dusseldorf prosecutors
had searched the homes of some employees and offices last year
after authorities obtained a disk with data that prompted probes
of some 1,100 Credit Suisse customers.  “At least this fine closes the matter as far as Dusseldorf
is concerned,”  Peter Thorne , a London-based analyst with
Helvea, said in a note to investors. “With the new German-Swiss
tax treaty this sort of ‘tax driven’ business will not be the
sort of business that Credit Suisse is looking to obtain.”  Marc Dosch , a spokesman for Credit Suisse, declined to give
further details in a telephone interview.  Credit Suisse fell as much as 5.5 percent in Swiss trading
and was down 4.4 percent to 21.72 Swiss francs as of 12:09 p.m.
in Zurich. That valued the company at 26.1 billion francs ($29.5
billion) and brought this year’s decline to 40 percent.  Tax Accords  Swiss private banks are under pressure following a
crackdown on  tax evasion  in the U.S. and  Europe . New tax accords
with the U.K. and Germany that undermine the advantages of
offshore accounts may prompt clients to move money back to their
home countries.  Switzerland and Germany completed an accord on Aug. 10 to
end their dispute over tax evasion by wealthy Germans holding
cross-border accounts with Swiss private banks. Swiss banks will
now levy a 26.375 percent withholding tax on interest, dividends
and capital gains earned by Germans with offshore accounts.
Revenue generated will go to the German treasury, while client
identities remain secret.  Julius Baer Group Ltd (BAER) , the 121-year-old Swiss wealth
manager, said in April it agreed to pay a fine of 50 million
euros to German authorities to end investigations against
unknown employees over undeclared client assets.  “The sum paid by Credit Suisse should be viewed in this
light,” said Helvea’s Thorne.  U.S. prosecutors told Credit Suisse last month that the
bank is a target of a probe into its former cross-border banking
services to American customers.  Larger rival  UBS AG (UBSN)  was charged in 2009 with aiding tax
evasion by U.S. clients. The bank avoided prosecution by paying
$780 million, admitting it fostered tax evasion, and giving the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service data on more than 250 accounts. It
later turned over data on another 4,450 accounts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  