-- 
Czech Energy Plan Includes New Dukovany Units, Kocourek Says

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 
2011-09-19T15:11:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/czech-energy-plan-includes-new-dukovany-units-kocourek-says-1-.html
A long-term Czech energy strategy,
which will be submitted to the government before the end of the
year, will emphasize development of new nuclear reactors,
including new units at  CEZ AS (CEZ) ’s Dukovany power plant.  The Ministry of Industry and Trade will submit two drafts
of the updated strategy to the government before the end of the
year, Minister Martin Kocourek said in an interview today. Both
drafts will focus heavily on expanding the country’s nuclear
capacity, he said.  CEZ, the largest Czech utility controlled by the state, is
currently in the process of choosing contractors for two new
reactors at its Temelin nuclear power plant. Areva SA,
Westinghouse Electric Co. and a Russian-Czech group led by ZAO
Atomostroyexport are competing for the contract, which will be
awarded at the end of 2013.  “Expanding Dukovany is certainly part of the energy-
strategy proposal,” Kocourek said after a conference in  Prague .  CEZ shares fell 5.3 percent to 702 koruna today in Prague.
The  Czech Republic ’s equity index fell 4.2 percent, or 40.2, to
close at 910.3 in Prague, the lowest since July 13, 2009.  Czech energy strategy for coming years will not rely on
expanding renewable energy sources, Kocourek said. The Czech
Republic can’t afford to increase the share of renewable energy
sources in its energy mix beyond the 13 percent it pledged to
have by 2020 as part of European Union’s clean energy policy, he
said.  “We will fulfill our obligation to have 13 percent of
renewables by 2020, but I’m afraid we can’t afford to expand it
further in the future,” he said.  The Czech government has “big doubts” about expanding the
capacity of biomass  power plants  while the country has already
fulfilled its potential for power generation from other
renewable resources, the minister said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 