-- 
Debevoise Adds Lawyers in Asia for Rise in Disputes, U.S. Regulator Probes

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-09-19T04:03:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/debevoise-adds-lawyers-in-asia-for-rise-in-disputes-u-s-regulator-probes.html
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, the New
York-based  law firm  with about 650 lawyers, said it will move
five to  Hong Kong  to work with Asia-based clients on disputes
and U.S. and U.K. regulatory matters.  Partner Christopher Tahbaz said he and former U.K. attorney
general Peter Goldsmith will spend part of their time in Hong
Kong, while three other lawyers will relocate to the Chinese
city from  New York  next month.  The eighty-year-old law firm, whose other  Asia  office is in
 Shanghai , isn’t planning to practice Hong Kong law even as other
Wall Street firms such as Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and Milbank
Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP have been setting up Hong Kong law
practices in the past year.  “We prefer to work with the experts in local law,” said
Tahbaz, referring to homegrown firms in Hong Kong and other
jurisdictions.  Debevoise currently has 15 lawyers in Shanghai and Hong
Kong. The firm’s clients in the region include Bank of China
Ltd.,  ArcelorMittal (MT) , Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and TPG Capital.  The firm’s Asia-based disputes practice will focus on
commercial arbitration and litigation, including product
liability and intellectual property lawsuits outside of Asia, as
well as white collar defense and advice related to the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act.  “There’s increased government interest in business
transparency,” said Tahbaz. “Businesses are not only
responding, they want to get ahead of the curve.”  Enforcement Record  The  U.S. Department of Justice  and the Securities and
Exchange Commission doubled their  enforcement actions  against
foreign corrupt practices to a record 86 last year and won $1.8
billion in settlements. Britain’s new bribery act came into
force this year.  “Countries are competing to see who’s cracking down the
hardest,” said Michael Li-Ming Wong, a partner at Ropes & Gray
LLP who spends up to half of his time in the firm’s Hong Kong
and Shanghai offices, and the rest in  San Francisco .  The Boston-founded law firm said on Friday it hired a
lawyer from Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP for its Hong Kong office
to work on anti-corruption due diligence and investigations.  London-based Clifford Chance LLP, which offers local law
advice in jurisdictions like the U.S. and Hong Kong, added Wendy Wysong, a former Assistant U.S. Attorney, to its Asia disputes
practice this year.  Kirkland & Ellis LLP, which last month announced plans to
start a Hong Kong law practice and to more than double its
lawyers in Asia to 50, also added a former U.S. federal
prosecutor, Sam Williamson, as a partner in its Shanghai office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  