-- 
Deutsche Bank Loses Share of Korea Overseas Bond Sales on Ban, Indictment

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 
2011-09-20T08:19:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/deutsche-bank-loses-on-korea-bond-sales-amid-ban-indictments.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the world’s top
manager of foreign-currency debt sales, fell in  South Korea ’s
rankings of bond-sale managers following indictments of four
employees and a six-month ban on its securities unit.  Deutsche Bank tumbled to No. 16 in arranging overseas debt
sales by South Korean companies this year, from No. 4 last year
and the top spot in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Offerings managed by the German firm dropped to $423
million as of yesterday, the lowest in nine years, from $1.49
billion in the same period a year earlier, the data show.  South Korean prosecutors last month charged four Deutsche
Bank employees -- three of them foreigners -- and its local
brokerage unit with market manipulation that caused an equities
rout on Nov. 11. The indictment, which followed a six-month ban
on proprietary trading imposed in April, has cut the bank’s
share of this year’s $19.1 billion in sales to 2.2 percent from
8.4 percent in all of 2010.  “The drop in the league table shows that the blow to its
reputation from the incident has actually damaged business,”
said Heo Pil Seok, chief executive officer of Seoul-based Midas
International Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $2.1 billion
in assets. “The court case isn’t a problem that will be
resolved in a couple of months. The negative consequences will
also drag on.”  Committed to  Korea   The bank continues to “perform strongly” in  Asia  and is
among the top three managers in the region, excluding  Japan ,
 Michael West , Deutsche Bank’s Hong Kong-based spokesman, said in
an e-mailed response to queries. “The bank remains committed to
the long-term development of its business in Korea.”  Deutsche Bank isn’t the only foreign financial firm in
Korea beset by legal or labor woes.  Lone Star Funds , a Dallas-
based private equity fund, and its former local chief, Paul Yoo,
face charges of stock market manipulation, which the company has
denied. A Seoul court is scheduled to give its verdict next
month. The case has delayed the planned sale of Lone Star’s
stake in Korea Exchange Bank to  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)   Standard Chartered  Plc’s local banking unit was forced to
close 43 branches, about a tenth of its outlets in the country,
in July as employees embarked on the longest strike in the
country’s banking history over a plan for performance-based pay.
It has reopened 14 branches as of yesterday, the company said.  Worst Since 2002  Deutsche Bank, which has had operations in Korea since
1978, is headed for its worst annual performance since 2002,
when it helped companies raise $233 million and was ranked No.
12 arranging overseas debt sales by South Korean companies. The
firm also has lending, brokerage and asset management operations
in the country, and employs more than 300 people, according to
its website.  So far this year, Deutsche Bank has been excluded from the
two largest sales of foreign-currency bonds to overseas
investors by Korean companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A $1 billion sale by Export-Import Bank of Korea on Sept. 8
was managed by HSBC Holdings Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Bank
of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Daiwa Securities Group
Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Woori Investment & Securities
Co. The export-import bank, known as Kexim, had previously hired
Deutsche Bank on two of its three biggest deals in 2010,
including the $1.25 billion sale of 10-year, dollar-denominated
bonds in June 2010.  Reputation Factor  A bank’s “reputation in the market” is a factor in
deciding on underwriting banks, Yoon Hee Sung, a director of
Kexim’s international finance department, said in response to
questions.  Korea Development Bank  hired Bank of America, HSBC, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Standard Chartered, UBS AG and KDB
for its $750 million deal on March 2. Park Chan Ho, a spokesman
for Korea Development Bank, declined to comment for this
article.  The Seoul Central District Prosecutors’ Office began the
probe of Deutsche Bank employees and Deutsche Securities Korea
in February at the request of financial regulators following a
plunge in the last 10 minutes of trading on Nov. 11 that erased
about $25 billion in market value.  The benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  dropped 2.7 percent when options
contracts expired that day, prompting regulators to say in
January that they would limit the number of equity derivatives
contracts investors can hold. The Kospi rose 0.9 percent at the
close of trading in Seoul today, paring this year’s decline to
10 percent.  Employee Suspended  Prosecutors said that three employees from Deutsche Bank
Hong Kong and one from Deutsche Securities Korea conspired to
manipulate the market by selling 2.44 trillion won of shares on
the  spot market  that day. The actions were intended to drive
down the Kospi 200 index so that the firm could profit from put
options the employees previously bought, the prosecutors said.  A date hasn’t been set for the employees to appear in court
for a hearing. One of the four indicted employees has been
suspended, and the other three are on administrative leave, West
said on Sept. 9.  Deutsche Bank denied wrongdoing in a  statement  on Aug. 21.
The bank at the time said the prosecutor’s actions were
“regrettable” and that Deutsche Securities Korea “denies the
charges, which will be defended. DSK did not authorize or
condone any breach of market regulation.”  Korea’s Financial Services Commission banned Deutsche
Bank’s securities unit from trading shares and derivatives for
its own account for six months beginning April 1, the heaviest
penalty imposed on any securities company in Korea, the
regulator said. Its other operations, such as debt underwriting
and its takeover advisory service, weren’t part of the
sanctioned businesses.  ‘Better Discipline’  “Of course, Deutsche Bank operations that weren’t
penalized have also been hit following the incident,” said Kim
Young Do, research fellow at the Seoul-based, private  Korea
Institute of Finance . “Deutsche Bank lost the most important
virtue of financial institutions: trust. Clients may question
the internal controls at Deutsche Bank and demand that it
demonstrate better discipline.”  The prosecutors didn’t identify the indicted employees and
said they include citizens of  Australia ,  France  and the U.K.
They said they will seek better cooperation with overseas
regulators and judicial officials so they can hold foreigners
responsible for stock market-related crimes, according to the
statement on Aug. 19.  Barclays Plc will hire 10 people from Deutsche Bank’s South
Korean brokerage unit including John Chang, its local equity
chief, two people with knowledge of the plan said in June.
 Barclays Capital  will add the employees for sales and research
to expand its equity business, one of the people said at the
time. Allister Fowler, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Barclays,
declined to comment last week when asked about the hiring plans.  Hiring Staff  The 10 Deutsche Bank employees weren’t part of the lender’s
local derivatives trading department that was punished this year
for trading irregularities relating to the Nov. 11 market drop,
one of the people said.  “Losing staff to rivals can be an additional blow to
Deutsche Bank’s business,” said Heo at Midas.  Deutsche Bank’s permanent staff in Korea is unchanged at
just over 300 employees compared with November, while Deutsche
Securities Korea has added five people since then, West said
this month. The equities unit hired seven people in the last two
months, of whom five have started working at the firm, he said.  “These figures point to the commitment Deutsche Bank has
to its business in Korea,” West wrote.  Foreign Debt Demand  South Korean international bond sales surged after the
financial crisis in 2008, with $26 billion of global bond sales
in 2009, the highest level since Bloomberg began tracking the
sales in 1999.  This year, Korean companies including banks and state-owned
entities have issued $19.1 billion in international bonds, up 22
percent from the same period last year.  “The level of global bond issuances by Korean firms, led
primarily by high-quality companies and the banks, is expected
to remain elevated in the second half amid ultra-low  interest
rates  in the developed economies,” said Kim Wanjoong, a
financial market analyst with Seoul-based  Hana Institute of
Finance . That will “keep the cost of global debt financing
relatively cheaper than won-denominated bond sales.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Taejin Park in Seoul 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net 
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ; 