-- 
Disease Killers Targeted in UN Move to Avert $47 Trillion Cost

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-09-19T16:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/disease-killers-targeted-in-un-move-to-avert-47-trillion-cost.html
Global leaders backed a plan to
fight the world’s leading causes of death in the first United
Nations General Assembly meeting on disease since the 2001 AIDS
summit.  The General Assembly agreed at its annual gathering in  New
York  today to a political declaration endorsing recommendations
to reverse the rising tide of  non-communicable diseases  such as
cancer, diabetes, and heart and lung disease that a study
yesterday said will cost the global economy $47 trillion over
the next 20 years.  The declaration proposes ways to fight obesity, cut tobacco
and alcohol use and expand access to essential medicines in an
effort to tackle unhealthy diets and lifestyles contributing to
three of every five deaths worldwide. It calls for targets to be
set by 2012 to curb mortality from these diseases, heightening
interest from policy makers in snacks, drinks, cigarettes and
drugs with combined 2010 sales of more than $2 trillion
globally.  “Industries realize that in the long term if people start
dropping dead because of unhealthy, toxic food, they will lose
out because nobody will buy their products,” Jamie Maxtone-
Graham,  Papua New Guinea ’s health minister, said in an interview
before the meeting. “When there is public outrage, there is
political action.”  The two-day summit which began today aims to spur
government action against physical inactivity and use of harmful
food ingredients, tobacco and alcohol. The only other time the
General Assembly met solely on a health topic was the  AIDS 
meeting that led to a  global fund  and a  10-fold increase  in
financial backing for HIV, tuberculosis and malaria programs.  Bigger Than Health  “For the first time, there is something coming out from
all member states at the highest level from the General Assembly
that the NCD problem is not just a health issue,” Ala Alwan,
the  World Health Organization ’s deputy director-general for non-
communicable diseases, said in an interview. “This is an issue
that requires a whole-of-government approach. All sectors have
to consider health in their policies.”  Productivity losses and medical treatment for non-
communicable diseases will total $47 trillion through 2030, the
World Economic Forum and  Harvard University  found in the first
study to quantify their likely expense. Increasing costs from
obesity-and lifestyle-linked illnesses in the next two decades
represent 75 percent of gross domestic product in 2010,
according to the study, which was released yesterday in New
York.  Almost 80 percent of the deaths from non-contagious
diseases occur in low-income countries such as Niger and middle-
income countries such as  Thailand , according to the Geneva-based
WHO.  Health System ‘Implosion’  “It’s going to lead to an implosion of already very
fragile health systems, health services and budgets,” said
Peter Piot, director of the  London School  of Hygiene & Tropical
Medicine and former executive director of the Joint United
Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, or UNAIDS. “It’s an historic
opportunity to put NCDs on the agenda, to take them out of the
closet of specialists -- like cardiologists and endocrinologists
-- and to put them on the political agenda, where they should
be.”  The rising prevalence of these diseases often occurs “in
slow motion” rather than in an explosive outbreak
characteristic of infectious disease, said Olivier Raynaud,
senior director of health at the  World Economic Forum . That’s
meant politicians don’t have a sense of urgency about the
problem, he said.  “The question is, can we afford not to invest today in
prevention and, therefore, incur the cost of consequences of not
making the right decision today?” Raynaud said in an interview.  Health Solutions  The WHO identified strategies to prevent and treat cancer,
heart disease and lung disease that would cost $11.4 billion a
year to implement in low- and middle- income countries, the UN
agency said in a separate report yesterday. Without action,
those nations could suffer $7 trillion in losses, the World
Economic Forum and Harvard study said.  The issue had divided political leaders, according to
earlier versions of the 12-page declaration drafted Sept. 7 for
debate in New York that were obtained by Bloomberg News.  On one side stand the U.S. and Western  Europe , home to many
of the companies that make the food, alcohol and cigarettes. On
the other are emerging economies such as India and  Brazil  that
have surging rates of diabetes and  heart disease  attributed to
the consumption of some of those companies’ products.  Much of the impetus for this week’s UN meeting came from
countries in the Caribbean and  Latin America , where heads of
state identified non-communicable diseases as a problem for
economic development more than four years ago, said Mirta Roses
Periago, director of the Pan American Health Organization.  ‘Shipwrecked’  “The good thing is that we have a declaration now,” she
said in an interview in New York. “In the preparations it
sometimes seemed it was going to be shipwrecked.”  The NCD Alliance, an umbrella group of 2,000 organizations,
said the U.S. and other wealthy nations watered down the
resolution language and guidelines pertaining to alcohol and
tobacco use, salt intake and access to medicines.  The countries also stymied efforts to describe the disease
burden as an “epidemic” in case it gave nations more leverage
in circumventing drug patents. The talks were also hampered by
concern from donor governments they would be asked for more aid
money amid Europe’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. economic
recovery, it said.  The NCD Alliance is campaigning for increases in tobacco
tax to save lives and provide governments with funds that can be
invested in health, Ann Keeling, the group’s chair, said in a
statement yesterday.  Taxing Tobacco  “Governments today raise more than $100 billion a year
from tobacco taxes,” said Nils Billo, executive director of the
International Union Against Tuberculosis and  Lung Disease  in
Paris, in the statement. “A mere 2 percent increase in current
tobacco taxes would raise $2 billion or more.”  A 10 percent reduction in deaths from blocked arteries and
stroke would reduce economic losses in low- and middle- income
countries by $25 billion a year, the alliance said. That’s about
three times the cost of implementing the prevention and
treatment measures for cardiovascular disease estimated in
yesterday’s study to cost $8 billion a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in New York at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at   bokeson@bloomberg.net  