-- 
Dubai’s Shares Decline on Greece Debt Concerns, Oil: Dubai Islamic Drops

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-19T12:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/dubai-s-shares-decline-on-greece-debt-concerns-oil-dubai-islamic-drops.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index fell
for the first time in a week as investors await a decision on
whether Greece will receive a payment that would help the
country avoid a default and after crude oil retreated.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , the biggest Shariah-compliant
lender in the emirate, declined 1 percent.  Deyaar Development (DEYAAR) 
PJSC decreased for a third day. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slipped
0.6 percent, dropping for the first time since Sept. 12, to
1,462.54, at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. About 38 million shares
traded in Dubai compared with a 12-month daily average of 122
million shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of the region’s stocks lost 0.4 percent.  “Markets are waiting for a catalyst or even a leading
market,” said Fadi Al Said, a Dubai-based senior investment
manager at ING Investment Management, which oversees about $518
billion worldwide. Local gauges are responding to a global
downtrend in equities “in a more defensive fashion.”  Greece ’s ability to avoid default hangs in the balance as
international monitors assess whether Prime Minister George Papandreou can meet the conditions of rescue loans. European
Union and International Monetary Fund officials will hold a
teleconference call today with Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos on whether the government is eligible for its next aid
payment due next month and for a second rescue package approved
by EU leaders on July 21.  Global Markets  The Stoxx 600 Europe Index lost 1.9 percent as of 1:48 p.m.
in  London . The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slumped 2.5 percent
and U.S. futures retreated.  Oil for October delivery fell as much as 1.8 percent to
$86.35 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Gulf Arab
oil exporters, including the  United Arab Emirates  and  Saudi
Arabia , supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Dubai Islamic dropped the most since Sept. 8 to 2 dirhams.
Deyaar, the property company part-owned by Dubai Islamic, lost
1.5 percent to 26.1 fils, the lowest since Aug. 9.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  and  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  fell 0.3
percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  and Kuwait’s
gauge retreated 0.4 percent. Oman’s MSM 30 Index declined 0.1
percent and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index dropped 0.6 percent to
the lowest since at least July 2004, when Bloomberg started
tracking the index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  