-- 
Earthquake in Cantor’s District Brings Deficit Politics Home

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-19T16:53:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/earthquake-in-cantor-s-district-brings-deficit-politics-home.html
The 5.8-magnitude  earthquake  in
Republican  Eric Cantor ’s Virginia congressional district
destroyed more than 30 homes, forced two public schools to close
and gave the budget-cutting House majority leader a reminder
that all politics are local.  Shock waves toppled chimneys and gravestones near the
epicenter outside rural Mineral, Virginia, and shut down
Dominion Resources Inc.’s  North Anna  nuclear power station 11
miles away.  Louisa County  officials estimate the Aug. 23 quake -
- which rattled the Capitol and other buildings in  Washington 
and sent tremors beyond  New York City  -- caused as much as $90
million in damage in the county, said Mineral Town Manager
 Willie Harper . That exceeds the $85 million non-capital county
 budget  for 2011-2012.  With few, if any, homes insured against earthquakes, there
is “widespread damage and people can’t afford to fix it,” said
Mineral Vice Mayor Bernice Wilson-Kube. Cantor’s constituents
“expect him to help us” get federal aid.  Days after the quake,  Hurricane Irene  swept up the East
Coast, knocking out power to 900,000 Richmond-area homes and
causing widespread property damage in Cantor’s district.  Political Dilemma  The back-to-back disasters highlight the fiscal and
political dilemma confronting Cantor and other Republican
deficit cutters when the need for federal assistance is in their
own backyards. The disasters also help illustrate the difficulty
Cantor and other congressional leaders face balancing the
sometimes conflicting interests of two constituencies: voters
back home and colleagues who elected them to party positions.
The House plans to debate increasing emergency disaster funding
this week.  Cantor had said after a May 22 tornado killed at least 125
people in Joplin,  Missouri , that disaster aid should be offset
by reductions in other federal spending. After Irene, he drew
criticism for reaffirming that stance and saying in an Aug. 29
Fox News interview that disaster funds “are not unlimited.”  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a fellow Republican,
countered that his state’s cleanup in the hurricane’s wake
couldn’t wait for Congress to fight over budget offsets.  Nor were Cantor’s comments well received by some in
Mineral.  ‘Risky Strategy’  Linking emergency spending for disaster aid with spending
cuts is a “risky strategy,” said Buddy Jones, 64, a school-bus
driver and substitute teacher.  “He should stand up for his constituents” because “we
voted to put him in office to do the right thing and look out
for us,” Jones said.  Wilson-Kube said she was unaware of any precedent for
Congress matching emergency disaster relief with budget cuts.
“I can’t help what he said about Joplin, but we expect some
help,” she said in an interview in the town hall.  Cantor sought to clarify his position on Sept. 7, saying he
wanted to make sure “people get their money” without having to
wait for Congress to act.  The House has voted to appropriate $1 billion, most of it
to shore up the  Federal Emergency Management Agency , already
strained by the Joplin tornado, wildfires in  Texas  and flooding
in states along the  Mississippi River . That money, and another
$2.7 billion for FEMA, was included in a new spending measure
the House will debate this week. The Senate passed a $6.9
billion plan last week, and the two houses will have to
reconcile the differences.  “Nobody in need of relief is not going to get it,” Cantor
told reporters in Washington Sept. 12.  Argue Later  As Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma  sought
spending offsets for the disaster measure, Louisiana Democratic
Senator  Mary Landrieu  told reporters last week, “We can argue
for the next six months, a year or two years about how and when
to fund it.”  “This is the time to act on behalf of Americans who need
our help,” said Landrieu, chairwoman of the Homeland Security
subcommittee.  Cantor spokeswoman Laena Fallon said it is up to  Virginia 
Governor Robert McDonnell to decide whether to seek federal
assistance for the Mineral area, and for President  Barack Obama 
to ask Congress, if necessary, for additional emergency funds.  “Eric has nothing to do with the request” for federal
assistance, she said. “He personally went down and toured the
damage from the earthquake with the governor and said we stand
ready to help should federal aid be necessary.”  Plastic Sheeting  In Mineral, workers attached plastic sheeting along the
roof line of the one-story town hall to cover holes where a
brick parapet tumbled to the ground during the earthquake.  More than two-dozen  aftershocks  have been felt in the area,
residents and officials say.  “We are walking on eggshells, we are wondering when the
next one is going to come,” said Susan Groome, director of the
Mineral Christian Pre-School.  The  earthquake ’s rumble -- which Wilson-Kube and Mike
Seaton, a vineyard owner, said sounded like a freight train --
struck seven days into the new school year.  “It felt like someone picked up the back of my truck and
threw it by the side of the road,” said Adam Richardson, 17, a
high school senior who said he wasn’t hurt when the quake made
his vehicle skid into a ditch.  Closed High School  Structural damage forced Louisa County school officials to
close the county’s only high school and a nearby elementary
school.  “We lost space for 2,000 students and we found space” at
other schools after the quake “rudely interrupted” the new
school year, said  Superintendent Deborah Pettit .  The county is busing more than 550 students of the damaged
Thomas Jefferson Elementary School to modular classrooms set up
outside another school 10 miles away.  The county’s 1,400 high school students are attending
classes three days a week at the Louisa Middle School. The 1,100
middle-school students are using the classrooms the other two
days and alternate Saturdays until modular classrooms for the
high school students are ready in January, Pettit said in a
telephone interview.  Pettit and other county officials said the buildings won’t
likely be reoccupied for at least two years.  ‘Even Longer’  It will be “even longer if we were going to design and
build new schools,” Pettit said.  Earthquake insurance will pay for as much as $50 million in
repair or reconstruction costs, she said. Rebuilding both
schools would cost as much as $70 million, requiring outside
financial help, she said. Structural engineers are still
determining whether the schools can be repaired, she said.  Though McDonnell declared a state of emergency, county
residents are awaiting results of a FEMA survey to determine
whether they are eligible for grants to repair or rebuild their
property.  Bob Spieldenner, a spokesman for the Virginia Department of
Emergency Management, said McDonnell will decide whether to seek
federal disaster assistance as early as this week.  That so few homeowners had insurance against earthquake
damage “is kind of in our favor,” though “not a guarantee”
that federal authorities would determine the area qualifies as a
disaster area, he said.  Cantor’s staff has been helpful in answering questions
about the application procedure for federal assistance and how
the county can qualify, said Robert Dube, the Louisa County
administrator.  The delay is frustrating for people who don’t know “what
they are going to do when winter sets in” because “they lost
their only source of heat” from chimney damage, Dube said.
“They don’t have the means to fix it.”  “Local government doesn’t have a way to step in,” Dube
said. “We just don’t have that kind of money lying around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Mineral, Virginia, at 
 jarowle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  