-- 
Easing SEC Regulations, Volcker Rule, UBS Trader: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-19T12:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/easing-sec-regulations-volcker-rule-ubs-trader-compliance.html
House Republicans have embraced at
least one proposal in President Barack Obama’s jobs  package :
changing the rules to make it easier for closely held companies
to raise money without going public.  Republicans have already lined up with  hearings  and bills
to support expanding exemptions from U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission rules for companies trying to raise capital,
and two lawmakers introduced legislation Sept. 15.  The idea was contained in a single line from the
president’s Sept. 9 speech to Congress, in which he pledged “to
cut away the red tape that prevents too many rapidly growing
start-up companies from raising capital and going public.”  “While there may be disagreements about the broader Obama
proposals, one thing we can all agree on is the need to
alleviate the burden of onerous SEC regulations for those small
businesses looking to access capital,” said House Majority Whip
Kevin McCarthy.  Currently, closely held companies are restricted from
offering more than $5 million in securities or advertising such
securities unless they register the offering with the SEC.  The legislative proposals include: exempting the practice
of “crowdfunding” or soliciting small investments from the
public, often over the Internet or through social media; raising
the size of exempted securities offerings to $50 million from $5
million; and allowing companies to advertise the offering.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Volcker Rule May Extend to Overseas Banks with U.S. Operations  Regulators writing a rule limiting proprietary trading by
U.S. banks are considering extending the restrictions to
overseas firms with operations in the country, according to four
people familiar with the proposal.  Officials next month will issue a proposal to carry out
provisions of the so-called Volcker Rule, part of the Dodd-Frank
financial-regulation law. The proposal would clarify what types
of offshore trading are exempt from the Volcker Rule, the people
said.  The Volcker Rule, designed to reduce the types of risky
investments blamed for triggering the financial crisis, has
prompted U.S. banks such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to close
proprietary-trading operations. Overseas banks say that a strict
interpretation of the rule may also force them to fire or
relocate U.S. employees who are involved in proprietary trading,
even if no American money is at risk.  “There is no question that we would lose jobs,” said
 Wayne Abernathy , vice president of the American Bankers
Association in Washington. “A lot of what the banks have been
doing in recent years to diversify their services are activities
that can easily be done by foreign competitors.”  The rule, named for the former  Federal Reserve  Chairman
Paul Volcker, includes exemptions for government-guaranteed
investments, hedging, market-making and insurance-company
transactions. It also exempts proprietary trading conducted
“solely” outside of the U.S.  The language of the bill is subject to interpretation by
regulators at agencies including the Federal Reserve and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Dodd-Frank, signed into law by
President Barack Obama last year, requires regulators to adopt
rules to carry out the provision by Oct. 18.  Regulators are considering how to define operations
conducted “solely” outside of the country. Trading managed in
the U.S. or involving U.S.-based advisers may be subject to the
rule even if it takes place overseas and has no U.S. investors,
the people said.  The proposal may still change, the people said. Five
regulators, including the Fed, the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency and the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Commodities Futures Trading Commission, must approve the
proposal separately. The Treasury Department is responsible for
coordinating the regulation. The proposed rule will be released
for public comment and can be changed before it becomes final.  Colleen Murray, a spokeswoman for Treasury, and  Barbara
Hagenbaugh , a spokeswoman for the Fed, declined to comment.
Andrew Gray, a spokesman for the FDIC, also declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  SEC Watchdog to Refer Ex-Counsel’s Madoff Work to Justice  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s inspector
general plans to ask the  Justice Department  to review whether
the agency’s former top lawyer violated conflict of interest
laws, according to three people with knowledge of the watchdog’s
findings.  H. David Kotz, the inspector, is completing his report on
ex-general counsel  David Becker ’s possible conflicts and it is
expected to be released next week, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the matter isn’t public. Kotz and
congressional investigators have been probing why Becker was
allowed to work on SEC policies related to the Bernard Madoff
fraud after inheriting profits from the Ponzi scheme.  Becker and his brothers are being sued by the court-
appointed trustee in the Madoff bankruptcy case to recover $1.5
million in what he termed fictitious profits. Becker raised the
issue with the SEC’s ethics officer and was told his inheritance
wasn’t a conflict.  Becker, who left the SEC in February, declined to comment
Friday, as did SEC spokesman  John Nester .  UBS Trader Charged, Third-Party Investigator Retained  Kweku Adoboli, the trader arrested Sept. 16 after  UBS AG (UBSN) 
said it discovered unauthorized trades that caused a $2 billion
loss, was charged with fraud and two counts of false accounting
dating back to 2008 by  London  police.  The 31-year-old was remanded in custody at a magistrates
court in London until Sept. 22, when he can make an application
for bail. Adoboli’s false accounting offenses started in October
2008, according to the court charge sheet. He is also charged
with fraud dating back to January 2009.  Adoboli “dishonestly abused” his position as a senior
trader, which required him “to safeguard, or not to act
against, the financial interests of UBS,” according to court
documents.  Adoboli worked for UBS’s investment bank on its Delta One
desk, which handles trades for clients, typically helping them
to speculate on or hedge the performance of a basket of
securities. The group also takes risks with the bank’s own money
in arranging trades. UBS has said that no client positions were
affected.  He hired criminal law firm Kingsley Napley LLP in London to
represent him. Lawyers from the same firm advised Nick Leeson,
the former derivatives trader who caused the collapse of Barings
Plc with $1.4 billion in losses in 1995.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority and the Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority said they would also
investigate the UBS trading losses.  The investigation, to be carried out by a third party will
focus on “the control failures which permitted the activity to
remain undetected” and “will include an assessment of the
overall strength of UBS’s controls to prevent unauthorized or
fraudulent trading activity in its investment bank,” the FSA
said in an e-mailed statement.  Richard Morton, a spokesman for UBS, declined to comment on
the charges.  UBS Chief Executive Officer Oswald Gruebel called the loss
“unauthorized” and “distressing” in an e-mail to employees,
without giving details.  For more, click here.  Separately, U.K. and Swiss regulators’ use of a third party
to investigate UBS’s trading loss was called “bizarre” by an
analyst who said the agencies should have the expertise to
conduct the probe on their own.  “It’s a bit bizarre,” Fred Ponzo a former trader at
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and a capital markets adviser at Greyspark
Partners in London, said in a telephone interview. The
activities “were a bit more exotic than share trading, but the
FSA should be able to carry out the investigation.”  For more, click here.  For commentary by  Vince Cable  and Jacob Schmidt, see
Interviews section, below.  SocGen Says It’s Cooperating With U.S. in Stanford Case  Societe Generale SA’s private banking unit is cooperating
with the U.S. Department of Justice as part of a case involving
R. Allen Stanford.  SG Private Banking “is cooperating with the Department of
Justice with regard to the request which has been made,” Jolyon
Barthorpe, a Paris-based spokesman for the bank, said by phone
Friday. He declined to make any further comment.  The Department of Justice is investigating whether the
French bank helped facilitate Stanford’s alleged $7 billion
investment-fraud scheme by ignoring suspicious transactions, the
Wall Street Journal reported Sept. 16, without saying where it
got the information.  The U.S. government claims Stanford defrauded investors by
deceiving them about the liquidity and oversight of more than $7
billion in certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd. Stanford denies all wrongdoing.  MetLife Pressed by SEC on Reserve Shortfall at Ex-AIG Unit  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the biggest U.S. life insurer, was pressed by
regulators to give more details on the causes of reserve
shortfalls at the non-U.S. unit acquired from  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  last year.  MetLife agreed to disclose which products provoked the
deficiencies and the periods of time over which costs will be
amortized, Executive Vice President Peter Carlson told the
Securities and Exchange Commission in a July 22 letter, released
Sept. 16. Carlson was responding to questions raised by the SEC
on May 27 amid a regulatory review of the New York-based
insurer’s 10-K annual filing.  MetLife Chairman Robert Henrikson bought American Life
Insurance Co. from AIG in November for about $16 billion. The
deal led to a negative  $4.4 billion  adjustment to MetLife’s so-
called value of business acquired, or VOBA, the insurer said in
its annual report.  “We always welcome the interaction with the SEC staff on
our 10-K filing,”  Christopher Breslin , a spokesman for MetLife,
said in an e-mail. “The exchange of letters with the SEC
related to a 10-K filing is a routine and typical interaction
between the SEC and all large publicly traded companies. The SEC
comments regarding MetLife’s 10-K were innocuous and did not
result in any changes in MetLife’s accounting.”  The VOBA adjustment was mainly tied to Alico’s business in
Japan and products written over almost two decades including
fixed annuities, interest-sensitive whole life policies and
retirement savings products, Carlson said in a June 13 letter,
which was also released Sept. 16. A decline in  interest rates 
contributed to the VOBA adjustment, Carlson said.  The SEC told MetLife in an Aug. 2 letter that it had
completed its review of the insurer’s filing. Such
correspondence is typically released about 45 days after a
review is completed. Mark Herr, a spokesman for New York-based
AIG, declined to comment.  IRS Collects $2.7 Billion as Thousands Divulge Accounts  The Internal Revenue Service has taken in a total of $2.7
billion from holders of offshore bank accounts, the agency said
as it announced that 12,000 taxpayers responded to the second
round of a partial amnesty program.  IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman said Sept. 15 that the
agency’s emphasis on international tax enforcement prompted more
people than anticipated to accept penalties and reveal their
accounts. On a conference call with reporters he said that the
results “were unthinkable just a few short years ago.”  He declined to comment on U.S. efforts to obtain account
information from Swiss banks, other than to confirm that the
U.S. and Swiss governments are discussing the issue.  “This effort was never about Switzerland,” Shulman said.
“A lot of Swiss banks aren’t taking these kinds of accounts
anymore, and they’re really trying hard to move forward.”  For more, click here.  Courts  AT&T, T-Mobile Lawsuit Joined by  New York , Six Other States  The U.S. lawsuit seeking to block  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s acquisition
of T-Mobile USA Inc. was joined by seven states as their
attorneys general said the proposed $39 billion deal would hurt
competition and raise wireless telephone prices.  The states joining the amended complaint that the Justice
Department filed Sept. 16 in federal court in Washington were
New York, Massachusetts, Washington, Ohio, Pennsylvania and
Illinois.  “Blocking this acquisition protects consumers and
businesses against fewer choices, higher prices, less
innovation, and lower quality service,” Illinois Attorney
General Lisa Madigan said in an e-mailed statement.  The government’s antitrust suit claims that the merger of
the two companies, which would make AT&T the biggest wireless
carrier and cut the number of national competitors to three from
four, is anticompetitive.  Michael Balmoris, a spokesman for AT&T, said 11 state
attorneys general support the deal.  “We will continue to seek an expedited hearing on the
Justice Department’s complaint,” he said. “On a parallel path,
we have been and remain interested in a solution that addresses
the department’s issues with the T-Mobile merger.”  The department said in a statement that the attorneys
general had provided “invaluable assistance” throughout the
investigation that led the antitrust division to file the
lawsuit on Aug. 31.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who helped
coordinate the states’ group, said the proposed merger would
“stifle competition” and reduce access to “low-cost options
and the newest broadband-based technologies,” according to an
e-mailed statement.  Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen said in a
statement he applauded the states joining the suit and stayed
out of it to conserve his office’s resources for other matters.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  BP Wins U.S. Dismissal of Some Investors’ Derivative Suits  BP Plc (BP/)  convinced a federal judge that it shouldn’t have to
face some lawsuits in the U.S. brought by institutional
investors on behalf of the company over last year’s Gulf of
Mexico drilling-rig explosion and oil spill.  U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison in Houston agreed with
BP’s arguments that the claims should be filed in U.K. courts
because the company is based in London. Ellison said he may
reverse this dismissal if English courts “refuse to accept
jurisdiction” for reasons other than the plaintiffs’ failure to
comply with procedural requirements.  “Because this derivative lawsuit involves the internal
governance of an English corporation, the convenience of the
parties and the interests of justice favor England as a more
convenient forum,” Ellison said Sept. 15 in a 31-page decision.  Investors sued BP claiming that the company’s management
and board caused the spill by knowingly putting profits ahead of
safety. The Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in April 2010 while
drilling a BP well off the Louisiana coast, killing 11 and
spilling more than 4.1 million barrels of oil.  The investors’ suits, so-called derivative claims brought
on behalf of the company, are combined with other shareholder
actions before Ellison in Houston. Lawsuits seeking money for
economic and personal injuries from the spill are consolidated
before a different U.S. judge in New Orleans.  Mark Lebovitch, a lawyer for the investors, said in an
interview Sept. 16 that his clients “continue to believe that
if ever there was a case where a federal judge should retain
jurisdiction over a foreign corporation’s board, this case is
it.” The plaintiffs are “reviewing their options” for a
response to the dismissal, he said.  BP spokesmen Daren Beaudo declined to comment.  The case is In re BP Shareholder Derivative Litigation,
4:10-cv-03447, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  Interviews/Speeches  Google EU Antitrust Probe Checks Company’s ‘Gate-Keeper’ Role  The European Union antitrust probe into  Google Inc. (GOOG)  focuses
on whether the world’s largest Web search company has a dominant
position that allows it to influence the “behavior of Internet
users.”  “Google is the browser of choice for very many of us; but
dominance is not the same as abuse of dominance,”  Joaquin
Almunia , the EU competition commissioner, said in a speech in
Florence, Italy Sept. 16. “Abuse is a conduct that protects or
extends dominance by illegitimate means, and we still have to
conclude whether this is the case for Google.”  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
growing pressure from global antitrust agencies probing whether
the company uses its position in Web searches to thwart
competition. While  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and partner Yahoo! Inc. have
about a quarter of the U.S. search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in Europe, Microsoft said in a blog post
in March, citing data from regulators.  One aspect of the 27-nation EU probe “is determining
whether Google holds a position of gate keeper and is able to
influence the behavior of Internet users,” Almunia said.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, declined to
comment on Almunia’s speech.  The digital market is becoming part of “sophisticated
strategic interactions” between companies, also in the form
mergers, said Almunia. An “interesting” case in this field for
the commission will be the proposed merger between Microsoft and
Skype Technologies SA.  Microsoft in May agreed to buy Luxembourg-based Skype for
$8.5 billion, to gain the world’s most popular Web-calling
service and help it catch up in online and mobile advertising.
The Brussels-based commission set an Oct. 7 deadline to rule on
the deal.  “The real challenge for us in these markets is separating
the potential for innovation from the potentially excessive
market power a company can acquire,” said Almunia.  Bank Regulators Should Cooperate, Fortis’s Daems Says  Bank regulators need to step up their cross-border
cooperation to prepare for the “extreme difficulties” of
managing international fallout from a major bank failure, Fortis
Bank SA/NV Chairman Herman Daems said.  Daems called for improved relations between supervisors in
a bank’s home country and other nations that are host to
subsidiaries and affiliates.  He made the remarks at a conference in Wroclaw, Poland.  When regulators don’t have the right relationships up
front, it creates difficult problems such as those that
Brussels-based Fortis experienced when it had to be rescued in
2008, Daems said last week at the conference.  “We need to make sure that home and host supervisors will
develop over time sufficient experience in working with one
another so that when they’re faced with one another in a period
of crisis, they can work together,” Daems said. “You need to
do a lot of work in the different countries so that you have the
right instruments to deal with these things.”  Bankers gathered at the Eurofi financial conference in
Poland Sept. 15-16, three years after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. failed in New York and triggered a global financial crisis.
Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands banded together to
rescue Fortis, which also is 20th on the list of banks that
borrowed the most from the U.S. Federal Reserve’s crisis
liquidity programs.  For more, click here.  Cable Says UBS Trading Losses Underline Need for Bank Reform  U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable said trading losses at
UBS AG underline the need for banking reform and the
implementation of the recommendations of the  Independent
Commission on Banking .  “If there were any doubts about the need for radical
reform, the UBS rogue trader has dispelled them. We simply
cannot have rogue institutions exposing taxpayers to the risk of
exploding financial weapons of mass destruction,” Cable said in
a speech to the Liberal Democrat party conference in Birmingham,
central England, today.  “The Independent Banking Commission provides a means to
stop this dangerous nonsense,” Cable said, according to the
text of his speech. “The commission’s key findings -- to
separate retail and casino banking -- must be put in place.
Legislation will start soon and be completed in this
Parliament.”  Schmidt Says UBS Not ‘Investable’ Until Culture Changes  Jacob Schmidt, founder of Schmidt Research Partners Ltd.,
talks about the reputation of UBS AG’s investment bank after the
unauthorized trading loss.  Schmidt also discusses his investment strategy with Maryam
Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 