-- 
Teck’s Lindsay Favors Coal Mine Expansion as M&A Booms

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-19T20:56:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/teck-s-lindsay-favors-coal-mine-expansion-as-industry-m-a-booms.html
Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , the world’s
second-largest exporter of coal used in steelmaking, said it’s
focused on expanding its Canadian operations without
acquisitions, even as the volume of transactions in the industry
rises to the highest level in at least 12 years.  “For us, it makes far more sense to build than to buy,”
Chief Executive Officer Don Lindsay said at company headquarters
in Vancouver. “It may be boring from an external point of view
that there aren’t lots of transactions, but it works.”  Teck plans to step up the pace of extraction from the more
than 5.5 billion metric tons of coal deposits it holds in
 Alberta  and British Columbia. Lindsay said building capacity in
western Canada is a cheaper way to add production than buying
companies such as U.S. miner  Walter Energy Inc. (WLT)  or  Australia ’s
Macarthur Coal Ltd.  There have been 56 pending or completed takeover bids for
coal producers so far this year with a combined value of about
$21.3 billion, according to Bloomberg data. They include  Peabody
Energy Corp. (BTU)  and  ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s agreement last month to acquire
Macarthur for A$3.64 billion ($3.72 billion). There were 70
deals worth about $16.4 billion in 2010, the data show.  Walter, which also mines metallurgical coal in Canada, rose
21 percent in New York trading on Sept. 7 after the London-based
Times reported Anglo American Plc may consider a bid. Walter
investor Audley Capital Advisors LLP said in July that company
should explore a sale. Teck isn’t interested, Lindsay said.  Not Underground  “Two-thirds of the business is underground, long-wall
operations,” he said in a Sept. 14 interview.  “You’ve seen in their performance, the squeezes that
they’ve had,” said Lindsay, 52. “Why would I want to get into
that business?”  Nor is Teck interested in Vancouver-based  SouthGobi
Resources Ltd. (SGQ) , a miner of coal in  Mongolia . SouthGobi’s
controlling shareholder, Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., said Sept. 12 its
advisers contacted potential investors about their possible
interest in some assets, including its SouthGobi stake.  “It’s actually a different business than what we’re in,
with trucks that go” across the border between Mongolia and
 China , Lindsay said. Teck moves most of its coal by sea.  Teck mines copper and intends to triple output in the next
five to seven years without acquisitions. It also produces zinc
and lead.  ‘Great Fit’  The company is open to deals that would diversify its
product mix, Lindsay said.  Iron ore  would be a “great fit,”
though Teck isn’t likely to make a move immediately because
valuations are high and there’s a shortage of high-quality
projects, he said.  “I’m in no rush,” Lindsay said. “We’ll wait and watch it
all very closely, but it would make sense for us.”  Teck is spending about C$1 billion ($1.01 billion) to
expand five coal mines in southern British Columbia and restart
the mothballed Quintette mine in the province’s northeast. It
aims to boost coal output to 30 million tons by 2013, up from
the 23.5 million to 24.5 million tons forecast for this year.  The price of Canadian metallurgical coal exported to China
rose to C$334.57 a ton in July, up 48 percent from a year
earlier, according to Bloomberg data. That’s the highest price
since at least September 2008.  Coal accounted for 47 percent of Teck’s sales last year,
copper 28 percent and zinc 10 percent, with the remainder coming
from its Trail, British Columbia, metals smelter. Teck,  Canada ’s
largest diversified mining company, has dropped 39 percent this
year on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The Bloomberg World Mining
Index has declined 18 percent.  Chinese Investment  Teck fell C$1.41, or 3.6 percent, to C$37.69 at 4:46 p.m.
in Toronto trading.  Teck hasn’t made an acquisition larger than $150 million
since China Investment Corp. paid C$1.7 billion for a 17 percent
stake in the company in 2009. That deal helped Teck reduce the
debt it took on following its July 2008 purchase of Fording
Canadian Coal Trust for C$10.4 billion, the company’s biggest
purchase.  Australia’s BHP Billiton-Mitsubishi Alliance is the world’s
largest exporter of metallurgical coal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 