-- 
Meet the Only Folks Serious About Ending Ripoffs: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-09-19T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/meet-folks-really-serious-about-ending-scams-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
In a dusty, Wichita,  Kansas , re-
creation of a frontier town last week, while state securities
regulators slapped at mosquitoes and swapped stories about cagey
financial crooks over cocktails, a spurs-and-boots-clad sheriff
drew his weapon and staged a faux gunfight in the town square.  It was a perfect metaphor for the way things have been
going in the real-life work of securities cops.  State regulators, the steadfast advocates of mom-and-pop
investors, helped sentence crooks to 1,100 years of jail time
and returned more than $12 billion to victims last year.
Especially in these times when commerce at any price seems to
trump protecting your Aunt Matilda, state investment watchdogs
are often a lonely and unwelcome force pushing for tough rules.
The nerdy investor advocates even have a geeky name: the  North
American Securities Administrators Association , or Nasaa.  Kansas was the choice for the group’s annual meeting this
year because 100 years ago a Wichita politician pushed through
legislation that made the state the first to enact laws to
regulate securities -- a shield against “fakers with worthless
stock to sell,” in the words of  Joseph Dolley , Kansas’s banking
commissioner at the time.  Were he alive, Dolley probably would be taking to his
Twitter account to malign the marquee-name U.S. politicians who
work for Wall Street, not Main Street, and to blast federal
securities regulators who have let the public down. His
successors have their hands full with today’s regulatory
battles.  Confused Customers  Few issues have been more important to the Nasaa folks in
recent months than the push to ensure that stockbrokers work in
the best interest of customers -- a so-called  fiduciary  standard
-- and improving the regulation of investment advisers. Last
week, they faced off against representatives from Wall Street
and the  insurance industry  at a hearing of a subcommittee of the
 U.S. House Financial Services Committee . Stockbrokers since the
1990s have been working the word “adviser” into their job
descriptions, leaving confused customers to believe that
stockbrokers and registered advisers were pretty much the same
even though only advisers have a fiduciary duty. Nasaa’s point
is that all people who give advice to investors should be
expected to act in their clients’ interest. Brokers -- no matter
what they call themselves -- aren’t usually obliged to.  Reasonable People  Although a reasonable person -- in short supply, needless
to say, at a government hearing -- might conclude that a broker
should do what’s best for the client who’s paying him, the
hearing was replete with reasons that could be a really bad
idea. Particularly if you’re the broker.  A second question at the hearing was whether federal
securities regulators or so-called self-regulatory organizations
paid by financial firms should inspect the investment advisers.
Sadly, the best option -- to use a federal regulator accountable
to the public -- comes up short when that agency is the
Securities and Exchange Commission. This month, the agency’s
inspector general plans to release four investigations that
stand a good chance of making the SEC look even worse than it
already does.  Years of embarrassing failures at the SEC are leading some
policy makers to conclude that the best way to police advisers
is by outsourcing to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
which is technically overseen by the SEC but funded by financial
firms. If this isn’t a formula for the lame leading the
conflicted I don’t know what is. Making it even better for  Wall
Street  is that, as a private corporation, Finra over the years
has said that it can’t supply investigative information about
its members. How cool is that if you’re a Finra member getting
into some mischief?  Good Fight  It’s reassuring, I guess, that those state regulators at
least continue to fight the good fight. But I can’t help but get
the feeling they aren’t so welcome in the debate about what’s
best for investors. Those Washington hearings last week
coincided with the third and last day of the states’ meeting in
Wichita, and if I didn’t know better, I’d wonder if the
politicians didn’t want them there. The finance committee
members “were aware of the timing of the Nasaa conference and
they chose not to accommodate them,” said  Barbara Roper ,
director of investor protection at the  Consumer Federation of
America , a frequent ally in Nasaa’s causes.  Here’s My Card  After a somber opening ceremony on Sept. 11 and a lot of
angst over battles with financial firms looking to defang the
Dodd-Frank Act and its efforts to police the financial industry,
Nasaa’s 100th year didn’t exactly ring in with champagne corks
popping. But the scrappy investor advocates haven’t lost their
spirit.  Keith Woodwell, a division director with the Utah
securities regulators, told colleagues the story of finishing up
a meeting in his office with a rogue broker one day only to have
the fellow hand over his business card “with the longest string
of credentials I ever saw.” Woodwell looked at the alphabet
soup of dubious pedigrees and spotted an accreditation he hadn’t
come across before. “I asked him what ‘C.H.S.G’ stood for,” he
recalled. The broker blushed, then came clean: It was an
abbreviation for “Certified High School Graduate.”  The group roared in the standing-room-only session. It was
no doubt a packed house because it covered matters dearest to
the state cops’ hearts: fraud, sales practice abuses and the
vast inventory of deceptions that take money out of the pockets
of citizens.  ( Susan Antilla , who has written about Wall Street and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at  santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 