-- 
Electric Vehicles Led by Leaf Fail to Connect Consumers: Cars

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-19T22:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/electric-vehicles-led-by-leaf-fail-to-connect-consumers-cars.html
Klaus Doerrzapf, who has solar
panels on his home, has no plans for an emission-free car in his
garage. He’s one of the reasons why automakers like Nissan Motor
Co. won’t recoup investments in  electric vehicles  anytime soon.  “It’s too early,” the 50-year-old manager at an electrics
company said at the International Motor Show in Frankfurt.
“Range and price are a problem. Battery life and charging times
are also concerns,” Doerrzapf said, while looking at an
electric-powered Focus from  Ford Motor Co. (F)   Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Nissan
partner  Renault SA (RNO)  talked up their electric vehicles at the
Frankfurt motor show as they rolled out a record number of
models and began the search for a return on their development
spending. Nissan, the maker of the all-electric Leaf, is
investing 4 billion euros ($5.5 billion) together with Renault
to build electric cars.  Following the introduction last year of the Leaf,
 Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) ’s i MiEV, and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
Chevrolet Volt, the new models will test consumer appetite for
electric vehicles, which cost more than double the price of
conventional models. Consumers are balking at paying up,
concerned that their own investment will be wiped out in a few
years because the batteries may not last.  “We’re about to find out what happens when several big
manufacturers try to sell electric vehicles to real people,”
said  Ian Fletcher , a London-based analyst with IHS Automotive.
“The signs aren’t all good.”  Sales Targets  Nissan has delivered 12,000 of the Leaf model since its
introduction in December, Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn 
said in Frankfurt. PSA Peugeot Citroen, which beat Renault to
the market with two electric city cars last December, targeted
7,000 combined deliveries of the iOn and C-Zero models for 2011.
It has sold 3,000 since Jan. 1.  Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan said last November it planned
to sell as many as 25,000 units of the $32,780 Leaf in the U.S.
during the model’s first year. Through August, U.S. sales of the
model totaled just 6,168.  The Leaf, which has a range of about 100 miles per charge,
costs 25,990 pounds ($40,776) in the U.K., even after the
deduction of a 5,000-pound government incentive, while the
brand’s similarly sized Note starts at 11,200 pounds. In  France ,
the 5,000-euro government contribution lowers the starting price
of Peugeot’s iOn to 35,350 euros, compared with 9,700 euros for
the gasoline-burning Peugeot 107.  Battery Barrier  “I wouldn’t buy one just yet,” said Jean-Pierre Ahtuam,
38, who runs a juice bar in central Paris. “I’d be worried
about where I’d plug it in and whether it will be worth anything
in a couple of years -- that’s got to be a concern with any new
technology the first time around.”  Costly batteries and limited driving range remain the key
sticking points for the technology. Public charging stations are
also conspicuously absent in most markets. Even the technology’s
strongest advocates recognize that success hinges on years of
generous subsidies from increasingly cash-strapped governments.  “As things stand, it’s only with this support that we can
make the cars affordable for consumers,” said Thomas Orsini,
electric-vehicle business development director at Renault, which
is predicting a 10 percent global market share for battery cars
by 2020. “If the subsidies disappear too soon, the market won’t
get off the ground.”  Subsidies help to absorb the 7,000-euro cost of a battery
that will propel a compact car about 100 miles on flat terrain
between charges -- providing that heating and other energy-
draining functions are used sparingly or not at all.  ‘Sudden Death’  The batteries’ price and limited lifespan will combine to
make electric vehicles depreciate faster than combustion-engine
models in the used-car market, according to research by the
 University of Greenwich  in  London .  “Electric cars suffer from the certainty, not just risk,
of a large fixed cost a few years down the line,” said Michael Wynn-Williams, a business professor and author of the study.
“This is sudden death, the point where an otherwise attractive
vehicle is worth nothing.”  To get around this problem,  Daimler AG (DAI)  plans to follow
Renault’s lead by initially leasing the batteries with its cars.
The electric-powered Smart city car will start at less than
16,000 euros, with the battery costing an additional 60 euros a
month.  Ghosn, chief executive officer of both Renault and Nissan,
remains bullish. Demand for Nissan’s Leaf has outstripped
expectations, he said Sept. 12.  “When we first predicted a 10 percent market share, people
said we were being extremely optimistic,” the CEO said. “Since
then, it’s the experts who have increased their forecasts.”  ‘Nice to Drive’  Not all industry analysts got Ghosn’s memo. Fletcher at IHS
expects battery-powered cars to claim about 1 percent of global
production in 2020, while rival research firm J.D. Power and
Associates puts their market share below 2 percent. The
forecasts exclude cars with range extenders, like GM’s Volt,
which use a small on-board gasoline generator to recharge the
battery on the move.  Even some of the auto executives showing pure electric
models in  Frankfurt  sounded skeptical about their future. 
Peugeot Citroen sees three times more global demand for hybrids,
which combine electric propulsion with a combustion engine.  “Everything we’re seeing today confirms that vision,”
said CEO Philippe Varin.  Consumers like Doerrzapf, who owns a VW Passat and works
for a company supplying the type of electronics equipment needed
to recharge the vehicles, may yet change their minds.  “They are nice to drive,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  