-- 
Emerging Countries Can’t Solve Euro-Area Issues, Zoellick Says

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-19T16:35:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/emerging-countries-can-t-solve-euro-area-issues-zoellick-says.html
European policy makers must tackle
the region’s debt crisis without relying on others as “ripple
effects” from the area begin to reach  developing countries ,
World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said.  The global recovery is “far more fragile” than it was
earlier this year as concern over European solvency and cooling
U.S. growth begin to disrupt bond and equity markets in emerging
economies, where export demand has already begun to slow,
Zoellick told reporters today in a conference call.  “We now have to be on watch to see if this spreads
further,” Zoellick said. “The euro zone has to face some
fundamental questions not only to deal with its current
liquidity problems but also the fundamentals of sovereign debt,
banks and competitiveness of members because the ripple effects
of this are starting to expand.”  As  Greece  works to stave off a potential default, European
policy makers are debating ways to reassure investors about the
debt of nations like Spain and Italy. Finance ministers from
Brazil, Russia,  India , China and South Africa plan to meet in
Washington on Sept. 22 to discuss ways to help  Europe .  While outside nations can support the euro area with
measures like the central bank coordination last week to lend
dollars to euro-area banks, Zoellick said he is “weary of the
idea that there is going to be one new bond facility, one new
this or that, that is going to solve the problem because it
diverts people from the difficult choices they have to make.”  Emerging Economies  The bank chief also cautioned against expecting emerging
economies like  China  to bail out the euro zone because it
“becomes a diversion and the key is for people to address the
fundamentals.”  “If one looks closely at the statements coming out of
China or other emerging markets, there’s a sense of wanting to
try to support the developed world and particularly the euro
zone in a point of crisis, but that’s different than putting up
money,” Zoellick said. “You also see the hesitancy in voices
out of China about putting the money that has been hard-earned
by people that have a per capita income of about $4,000 and
bailing out Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  