-- 
Lennar Climbs After Homebuilder Reports Higher Orders, Improving Traffic

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-09-19T20:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/lennar-says-profit-declined-in-third-quarter-after-delivering-fewer-homes.html
Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest
U.S. homebuilder by revenue, climbed the most in three weeks in
New York trading after reporting an increase in orders and
improving customer traffic amid the economic slowdown.  Orders for new homes jumped 11 percent in the three months
ended Aug. 31 to 2,914, Lennar said today in its earnings
statement. The Miami-based company had its sixth straight
quarterly profit in the period, matching analysts’ estimates,
and its shares rose 4.9 percent.  “It’s a little bit of a relief rally,” Megan McGrath, an
analyst with MKM Partners LP in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. “The fact that they came up with
continuing positive earnings and positive year-over-year order
growth, all of that leads folks to breathe a sigh of relief.”  U.S. homebuilders are being hurt by competition from
cheaper existing houses and a national jobless rate above 9
percent. Sales of new homes probably fell in August to a 295,000
annual rate, the lowest since February, according to the median
estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Lennar expects
to maintain profitability in the fourth quarter as demand for
home purchases “slowly” returns, the company said.  Lennar rose 67 cents, or 4.9 percent, to $14.47 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
gain since Aug. 29. The increase was the largest in the 12-
member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index,
which added 0.9 percent.  Lower Profit  Net income for the third quarter fell to $20.7 million, or
11 cents a share, from $30 million, or 16 cents, a year earlier.
Analysts expected earnings of 11 cents a share, the average of
18 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue dropped to $820.2 million from $825 million a year
earlier. Home deliveries decreased to 2,865 from 2,950 while the
average selling price rose to $247,000 from $240,000.  Lower home prices and mortgage rates near record lows are
helping improve customer demand, Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said in the statement. The average rate for a 30-year
fixed loan fell to 4.09 percent last week, the lowest in Freddie
Mac records dating to 1971. The median price for a new house in
the U.S. was $222,000 in July, down 6.3 percent from the
previous month, according to the Commerce Department.  Returning in ‘Earnest’  “We continue to see evidence that the consumer is
beginning to return in earnest to the homebuilding market,”
Miller said today on a conference call. “Traffic trends have
continued to improve and real traditional primary purchasers
with the real desire to purchase are showing up.”  Lennar has been cutting costs and investing in distressed
real estate through its Rialto Investments unit to boost
earnings. Rialto had net operating earnings of $5.7 million in
the third quarter, compared with $7.7 million a year earlier.  Gross margin on home sales, a measure of profitability, was
21.1 percent in the third quarter, unchanged from a year earlier
and up from 19.4 percent in the previous three months.  “Gross margin probably soothed some concerns about
Lennar’s ability to maintain profitability in a very challenging
housing market,” Michael Widner, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus
& Co., wrote in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  