-- 
Merkel Signals She’ll Dodge Breakup as Debt Crisis Squeezes Her Coalition

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-09-20T07:19:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/merkel-signals-she-ll-dodge-german-coalition-breakup-disaster-.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said she’ll hold the government together even after her
coalition partner defied a call to stop talking down  Greece  and
was flattened in a state election.  “We will continue our work as a government and I don’t
think it’s become more difficult,” Merkel told reporters in
Berlin yesterday. “The coalition is on the job and we have a
whole lot of tasks ahead. All coalition partners know what their
task is and will pursue them with great diligence.”  The task at hand was underscored as  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded  Italy ’s credit rating, sending the euro sliding. The
government in Slovenia, a euro member since 2007 that Merkel
visited three weeks ago, meanwhile faces a confidence vote today
that it may not survive, threatening to delay approval of an
overhaul of the European rescue fund that Merkel has backed.  Merkel and President  Barack Obama  discussed the euro-region
crisis and financial-market developments in a phone call
overnight, agreeing that “concerted action would be needed in
the months ahead to address the current economic challenges and
to assure global economic recovery,” according to a  White House
statement .  Domestically, Merkel is struggling with a weakened Free
Democratic Party coalition partner that’s flirting with an anti-
bailout stance to try and bolster its popularity. The FDP lost
all its seats for the fifth time this year at a state election
in Berlin two days ago after turning skepticism over euro-area
rescues into a campaign theme. The main opposition Social
Democrats and Greens demanded an end to Merkel’s coalition and
offer to work with her on tackling the debt crisis.  Crisis Management   Open conflict in Merkel’s three-party alliance has erupted
over the euro’s future and financial aid to Greece, stoking
speculation that she may end the coalition midway through her
second term. As 82 percent of respondents to a poll in this
week’s Spiegel magazine said the government’s crisis management
is “bad,” the FDP, or liberals, bore the brunt of voter anger.  Merkel is still unlikely to call elections before they are
scheduled in 2013 or accept the Social Democrats’ offer to
switch coalition partners,  Gerd Langguth , a political scientist
at Bonn University and Merkel biographer, said by phone.  ‘Nervous and Incalculable’  “Merkel will want to keep the FDP on board” and avoid an
early election that would be “a disaster” for her coalition
parties, said Langguth. The FDP has lost  so much support  that
it’s “very nervous and incalculable,” he said. “That’s the
danger for Merkel. Still, I don’t expect the FDP to leave the
government.”  Free Democratic Party backing nationally has collapsed to
about 5 percent, the threshold for parliamentary seats, after a
record 14.6 percent in the September 2009 election as the debt
crisis forces a dilemma on the party of Hans-Dietrich Genscher,
the foreign minister who helped forge German and European unity.  With a change of leadership failing to halt the decline, a
group of lawmakers skeptical of bailouts is gaining traction
within the party, threatening to disrupt parliamentary votes on
the European rescue fund and its permanent successor from 2013,
the European Stability Mechanism.  “The issue now is how long the liberals hold onto the
coalition, whether they break it off ahead of time,” Nils Diederich, a politics professor at Berlin’s Free University,
said in an interview. “But I don’t think they will.”  German ‘Duty’  Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, who took over the party
chairmanship from Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  in May, put
an “orderly default” for Greece on the table last week,
roiling financial markets and earning him rebukes from members
of Merkel’s  Christian Democrats .  Merkel responded by sharpening her arguments in defense of
the euro, saying  Germany  has a “duty” to preserve the joint
currency because it helps exports, makes the country richer and
underpins  Europe .  “Words must be weighed carefully in dealing with the euro
crisis -- that applies to everyone,” Merkel said yesterday when
asked about Roesler’s position. “We must have the resolve to
master the debt crisis. We shouldn’t do anything with an
incalculable outcome. That applies to one’s own party, the
coalition partners and certainly also to the opposition.”  ‘Collective Liability’  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, who was Merkel’s chief
economic adviser until moving to the central bank in May, said
the expansion of the rescue fund’s powers agreed by EU leaders
in July risks increasing the burden on “financially strong
countries.”  “These decisions are another big step toward a collective
liability and reduce the disciplining function of capital
markets without strengthening control and influence on national
fiscal policies in return,” Weidmann, who also sits on the
 European Central Bank ’s governing council, said in written
testimony to the German parliament’s budget committee.  The FDP won just 1.8 percent of the vote in Berlin, the
last of seven state elections this year that have seen the
coalition parties punished over their handling of the debt
crisis. The FDP result was its worst in the German capital since
World War II, and compared with 8.9 percent for the Internet-
freedom campaigning Pirate Party.  Playing on voter concern about the debt crisis backfired
because voters saw it “as ‘calculated populism,’ and Germans
don’t like that,” Langguth said. Even so, the  Social Democrats ’
offer to help Merkel out is “hot air.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  