-- 
Erste’s Capital Position Is ‘Weakness’ to Rating, S&P Says

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-09-19T10:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/erste-debt-ratings-unaffected-by-romania-unit-buyout-s-p-says.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ’s capital
position is a “weakness” of eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest
lender’s  credit rating  and it needs to strengthen its buffers
against credit risk,  Standard & Poor’s  Ratings Services said.  “We expect Erste to continue to strengthen its
capitalization as a buffer against material adverse events,
notably rising credit risks related to foreign currency lending
in Hungary and to a lesser extent in Romania,” Standard &
Poor’s said today in a statement on Erste’s plan to buy out
minority shareholders in its Romanian unit. Its capital position
is a “relative weakness to the ratings,” S&P said.  Erste last week agreed to buy out in cash and stock four of
the five funds who own stakes in its Banca Comerciala Romana SA
unit, which is  Romania ’s biggest lender. That deal will reduce
its “risk-adjusted capital ratio” by less than 10 basis
points, from 5.9 percent at the end of last year, S&P said. It
therefore won’t affect Erste’s A debt rating and the stable
outlook on it, it said.  Austrian daily newspaper WirtschaftsBlatt earlier today
incorrectly cited Erste’s capital ratio as 5.6 percent.  The Vienna-based bank may soon have to boost BCR’s capital
as the Black Sea country’s banks are squeezed by bad debts and
the economic situation is “severe,” Erste said last week.
Romania and Hungary are holding back Erste’s earnings recovery
as bad debt provisions will “remain elevated” in Romania and
rise further in  Hungary  this year. Delinquent loans grew to 19
percent of total lending in Romania, while in Hungary they
represented about 16 percent, Erste said July 29.  Erste’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength,
was at 8 percent at the end of June, unchanged from three months
earlier, excluding so-called participation capital, of which the
Austrian state injected 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) in
2009. The bank plans to pay the state portion of the capital
back as soon as it gets regulatory approval, which it expects to
happen by the end of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  