-- 
Stocks Decline as Euro Weakens on Greek Default Concern; Treasuries Rally

-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-19T20:38:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/euro-asia-stocks-fall-as-gold-climbs.html
Stocks fell, halting a five-day
rally in U.S. benchmark indexes, and the euro weakened amid
concern Greece will fail to qualify for more financial aid
needed to avoid default. Treasuries rose, sending two-year
yields to a record low, and copper and oil slid.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 1 percent to
close at 1,204.09 at 4 p.m. New York time, after plunging as
much as 2.3 percent. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index ended down 2.3
percent. The euro depreciated 0.8 percent versus the U.S.
currency and the Dollar Index rose for a second day. Ten-year
Treasury yields fell nine basis points and the similar-maturity
Greek yield rose 183 points. Copper sank to a nine-month low and
oil slid 2.6 percent to the lowest price in three weeks.  Equities and the euro trimmed losses as Greece’s Finance
Ministry said it had a “productive and substantive discussion”
with international officials who will determine if the country
gets more bailout funds. In the U.S., President  Barack Obama 
called for $1.5 trillion in tax increases over the next decade
to help trim the deficit and the  Federal Reserve   will discuss
the economy at a two-day meeting starting tomorrow.  “The markets are saying the odds are very high of a Greek
default,”  Frederic Dickson , who helps oversee $28 billion as
chief market strategist at D.A. Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego ,
 Oregon , said in a telephone interview. “Investors expected more
action to resolve the Greek debt crisis or provide economic
relief to Europe,” he said. “People are expecting a lot from
the Fed this week,” he said, which leaves room for
disappointment.  Banks Tumble  The S&P 500 fell after rallying 5.4 percent last week, the
third-biggest weekly gain since 2009. Gauges of financial
companies and energy and commodity producers lost more than 1.4
percent today to lead declines among all 10 of the main industry
groups in the  S&P 500 , with Citigroup Inc. down 4.4 percent and
Alcoa Inc. falling 3.3 percent to pace losses.  Tyco International Ltd., the world’s largest publicly
traded maker of security systems, rose 2.4 percent after the
company said it will break up into three publicly traded
companies to drive growth.  The S&P 500 is down 12 percent from a three-year high at
the end of April and investors have pulled more money from U.S.
equity funds since then than in the five months after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., adding to the $2.1
trillion rout in American stocks.  About $75 billion was withdrawn from funds that focus on
shares during the past four months, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg from the  Investment Company Institute , a
Washington-based trade group, and EPFR Global, a research firm
in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Outflows totaled $72.8 billion from
October 2008 through February 2009, following Lehman’s
bankruptcy, the data show.  European Stocks  More than 13 stocks declined for each that advanced in the
Stoxx 600, as all 19 industry groups fell. BHP Billiton Ltd. and
Rio Tinto Group helped lead mining companies lower, losing more
than 3 percent. Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-biggest bank by
assets, and  France ’s Societe Generale SA tumbled more than 6.5
percent.  Benchmark indexes for  Germany , Italy, France and the U.K.
declined at least 2 percent.  The euro slipped 1.1 percent against the yen and
depreciated to $1.3687, trimming in half an earlier 1.5 percent
drop versus the dollar. The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S.
currency versus those of six trading partners, advanced 0.6
percent. The yen appreciated against all 16 major counterparts.  Fed Meeting  The rebound in the euro and European stocks last week may
prove short-lived in the face of increasing pessimism over the
region’s debt, if money-market and derivative trading are any
indication. While the currency strengthened 1 percent against
the dollar and the Stoxx 600 rose 2.5 percent last week, U.S.
short-term debt funds have reduced lending to European banks and
the cost for financial institutions to fund themselves in
dollars rose. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley cut
forecasts for the euro this month, and bets against the currency
rose to the most in more than a year.  Greece ’s ability to avoid default hangs in the balance as
international monitors assess whether Prime Minister George
Papandreou can meet conditions of rescue loans and the Greek
leader canceled a planned week-long U.S. visit. Greek Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos held a conference call with the
heads of the European Union,  European Central Bank  and
International Monetary Fund mission to  Athens . The talks will
continue in another teleconference tomorrow evening, a statement
from the Greek Finance Ministry said.  ‘Ducks in a Row’  The inspectors, nicknamed the “troika” by investors, are
empowered to judge whether the government is eligible for an aid
payment due next month and on track for a second rescue package
approved by EU leaders July 21. European leaders are squabbling
over terms of the July agreement and the prospect that they will
be forced to channel more money to keep Greece in the currency
union.  “The timing of a Greek default remains in the hands of the
troika and it is difficult to believe that they will decide to
pull the plug at this stage because of the potential impact upon
the other troubled sovereigns and the banking sector,”  Gary Jenkins , a strategist at Evolution Securities in  London , wrote
in a note to clients today. “Who knows what contingency plans
they have prepared behind closed doors,” he wrote.  “And on
the day that all the ducks are lined up then that might be the
day that support for Greece is withdrawn. ”  German Elections  German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party was defeated in a
Berlin state election and her coalition ally lost all its seats
after turning skepticism over euro-area bailouts into a campaign
theme, stoking government infighting over the debt crisis. The
 Social Democrats , the main opposition party nationally, extended
their 10-year rule in the German capital after beating Merkel’s
Christian Democrats into second place in yesterday’s election.
Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition partner, known as the
liberals, crashed out of a regional assembly for the fifth time
this year, while the Pirate Party won its first-ever seats.  The yield on the German 10-year bund dropped six basis
points to 1.80 percent, while the Italian yield climbed eight
points. That drove the difference in yield between the two
securities 14 basis points higher to 379 basis points. The Greek
two-year note yield surged 625 basis points, or 6.25 percentage
points, to 61.38 percent, snapping a three-day decline. The
Greek-German 10-year spread widened 189 basis points to 21.22
percentage points.  ‘Coming to a Head’  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps protecting the debt of 15 governments rose 13
basis points to 339.  “The Greek situation could be coming to a head,” said
Khiem Do, the Hong Kong-based head of multi-asset strategy at
Baring Asset Management, which oversees about $10 billion.
“Some haircut might be needed for Greece if they don’t receive
additional funding. That could create a domino effect in
countries like Spain,  Italy  and Portugal. That’s what the market
is fearing.”  The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note fell nine basis
points to 1.96 percent. The two-year yield touched a record low
of 0.1451 percent before ending down one point at 0.1532. Wall
Street’s biggest bond traders are stockpiling Treasuries at the
fastest pace since 2007 on speculation the Fed will announce a
plan this week to buy longer-term debt to spur the faltering
economy. The 20 primary dealers held $15.1 billion of  Treasury
securities  due in more than one year as of Sept. 7, the most
since December and up from a $75 billion bet against the debt on
May 6, Fed data show.  Commodities Slump  The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities fell 2.2 percent, led
by industrial metals and energy. Copper declined as much as 4.2
percent to $3.7655 a pound, the lowest price for a most-active
contract since Nov. 30. Gold futures retreated 2 percent to
$1,785.90 an ounce, erasing an earlier 1 percent rally, as a
stronger dollar reduced demand for an alternative asset.  Oil dropped 2.6 percent to $85.70 a barrel on concern
weaker economic growth in the U.S., the world’s largest consumer
of crude, and Europe will hurt demand. OPEC Secretary-General
Abdalla El-Badri said today that global demand for oil is rising
less than expected.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 2.8 percent to the
lowest level in 14 months. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
of Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong  sank 3.7 percent to the
lowest close since May 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Verdonck in London at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  