-- 
Euro Declines for Third Day Versus Dollar After S&P Lowers Italy’s Ratings

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-09-20T08:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/euro-declines-for-third-day-versus-dollar-after-s-p-lowers-italy-s-ratings.html
The euro declined against the
dollar for a third day after Standard & Poor’s cut  Italy ’s
credit rating, adding to concern Europe’s debt crisis will raise
borrowing costs for the region’s largest economies.  The 17-nation shared currency approached its lowest since
2001 versus the yen before Greece resumes discussions with
creditors aimed at staving off default. The dollar gained versus
all but two of 16 major peers before the  Federal Reserve ’s
policy meeting today. South Korea’s won fell to its weakest this
year as Asian stocks slumped.  “Investors are still pricing in the possibility of a Greek
default and that’s weighing on the euro, particularly against
the dollar and yen which seem to be benefiting in this
environment,” said Chris Walker, a foreign-exchange strategist
at UBS AG in London. “The crisis in  Europe  is going to get
worse before it gets better so we would recommend selling the
euro at these levels. We think it’ll go to $1.30 by year-end.”  The euro slid 0.1 percent to $1.3670 as of 8:58 a.m. in
London from $1.3686 in  New York  yesterday. It declined to
104.1862 yen from 104.82 yesterday and touched 103.90 on Sept.
12, the least since June 2001. The dollar bought 76.52 yen from
76.58.  Asian stocks extended a two-week decline, with the region’s
benchmark index falling 0.8 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
gained 0.7 percent.  ‘Weakening’ Prospects  The rating for Italy, which has Europe’s second-largest
debt load, was lowered to A from A+, S&P said yesterday in a
statement. The firm said Italy’s net general government debt is
the highest among A rated sovereigns, and now expects it to peak
later and at a higher level than it previously anticipated.  Italy follows  Spain , Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus and Greece
as euro-region countries having their credit ratings cut this
year. The  European Central Bank  last month started buying
Italian and Spanish government bonds after the region’s debt
crisis pushed their yields to euro-era records.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government will
hold another call with European Union and International Monetary
Fund officials tonight in a bid to secure a sixth installment of
rescue funds, amid concern the austerity measures demanded are
deepening a three-year recession and making it harder for the
government to meet its deficit goals.  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos held “substantive”
discussions with the officials, the finance ministry said in an
e-mailed statement after a teleconference last night.  ‘Selling Into Rallies’  “I’d be selling into rallies in the euro,” said  Richard Grace , the Sydney-based chief foreign-exchange strategist and
head of international economics at Commonwealth Bank of
 Australia . “The conditions of receiving the payment are that
 Greece  implements austerity measures and it looks like they’re
having difficulty doing that. The implication is the next
tranche is withheld.”  Papandreou is considering holding a referendum on whether
his nation should remain in the common currency, the Kathimerini
newspaper said, citing people it didn’t name. Greek government
spokesman Ilias Mosialos denied the report.  The dollar advanced before Fed officials begin a two-day
meeting. Policy makers may decide to replace some of the short-
term Treasuries in the Fed’s $1.65 trillion portfolio with
longer-maturity debt in a bid to lower borrowing costs,
according to economists at Wells Fargo & Co., Barclays Plc and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  ‘More Aggressive’  The Fed may go further by reducing the  interest rate  paid
on reserves, according to  Adrian Foster , head of financial-
market research for  Asia  at Rabobank Groep NV in  Hong Kong .  “Everyone is worried about all the risks, so this time
around when we see a central bank actually taking more
aggressive action than the average market expectation, you may
get a bit of a boost to the dollar,” Foster said.  The yen strengthened against all but one of its 16 major
peers.  Japan ’s trade minister  Yukio Edano  said the country will
deal with any speculative currency moves.  Australia’s dollar rose as the nation’s central bank said
it was well positioned to respond to global and domestic risks
or the threat of an acceleration of inflation, according to
minutes of a Sept. 6 meeting at which policy makers kept its
cash target unchanged at 4.75 percent.  Lows for Year  The so-called Aussie traded 0.3 percent stronger at
$1.0248. It earlier fell as low as $1.0149, its weakest since
Aug. 11. It gained 0.1 percent to 78.39 yen.  South Korea ’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit reached 2011 lows
as the European debt crisis damped demand for higher-yield
currencies.  “Risk aversion has gone to the next level and the losses
are justified, given that European officials have not been able
to reassure the markets on the default risk,” said Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, a strategist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur. “Asian assets are getting sold off in favor of cash.”  The won dropped 1 percent to 1,1148.90 per dollar after
earlier touching 1,156.50, the weakest since Dec. 22, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit retreated 0.4
percent to 3.1267 per dollar. It earlier reached 3.1412, the
weakest since Dec. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  