-- 
European Stocks Decline Amid Speculation on Greek Aid Payment

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-19T16:03:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/european-u-s-futures-drop-as-investors-await-greek-aid-payment-decision.html
European stocks slid, halting a
four-day rally for the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, as investors
speculated that Greece may not receive an aid payment that would
help it avoid default.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  led banks lower after Germany’s ruling
party lost another regional election. Mining companies and oil
producers fell as base metals and crude oil dropped, while
Michelin & Cie. declined after Morgan Stanley downgraded the
tiremaker.  The benchmark Stoxx 600 dropped 2.3 percent to 224.96 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, paring last week’s 2.5 percent
advance. The gauge has declined 23 percent from this year’s peak
on Feb. 17 as the region’s growing debt crisis added to concern
that the economic recovery is at risk.  “Politically, there is a will for Greece to make its next
payment,” said Sailesh Bhundia, senior portfolio manager at EFG
Asset Management in London, which oversees about $6 billion.
“When you look at the ability of the Greeks to meet some of
these austerity measures, you have to ask questions.”  Stocks rallied around the world last week after  Germany  and
 France  said Greece will remain a euro member and the  European
Central Bank  announced coordinated measures with the  Federal
Reserve  to ensure the region’s lenders have sufficient U.S.
dollars.  National benchmark indexes declined in every western
European market. France’s CAC 40 Index fell 3 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index dropped 2 percent and Germany’s DAX Index
lost 2.8 percent.  Greece Debt Talks  In Greece, international monitors will assess whether Prime
Minister George Papandreou can meet the conditions of the
country’s rescue loans. The Greek leader canceled a U.S. visit
that was to begin yesterday, saying he needed to remain in the
country for a “critical” seven days.  European Union and International Monetary Fund inspectors
hold a teleconference today with  Greece ’s Finance Minister,
Evangelos Venizelos, to judge whether the government is eligible
for an aid payment due in October.  Greece “has sufficient cash to keep going until mid
October, but with this deadline fast approaching, it’s perhaps
no surprise that many will start looking at ways to take risk
out of portfolios and it’s no surprise that financial stocks are
already feeling the squeeze,” said Cameron Peacock, a market
analyst at IG Markets in  Melbourne .  Merkel Loses Election  Separately, German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party lost a
regional election in Berlin, the last of seven state ballots
this year in which voters have punished the governing coalition
parties for their handling of the sovereign-debt crisis.  Deutsche Bank and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s largest
lenders, led a gauge of European bank shares lower, falling 4.5
percent to 23.96 euros and 4.1 percent to 1.69 euros,
respectively.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, which was downgraded by Moody’s on
Sept. 14, sank 6.7 percent to 17.69 euros. Credit Suisse Group
AG declined 6.2 percent to 21.31 euros.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc slumped 6.7 percent to 33.42 pence
as the bank said Finance Director Tim Tookey will leave the
U.K.’s largest mortgage lender to join Friends Life, the insurer
being built by Resolution Ltd., Clive Cowdery’s acquisition
firm.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  slipped 3.4 percent to 1,935 pence, Rio
Tinto Group declined 3.3 percent to 3,505 pence and Antofagasta
Plc tumbled 8.2 percent to 1,194 pence as base metals retreated
in  London . Total SA retreated 1.8 percent to 32.16 euros and BP
Plc slipped 1.5 percent to 407.4 pence as crude oil fell to near
its lowest price in two weeks.  Bets on Commodities  Hedge funds  cut their bullish bets on raw materials for the
first time in five weeks on speculation that demand will decline
as Europe’s debt crisis deepens.  In the week ended Sept. 13, speculators lowered their net-
long positions in 18 commodities by 5.2 percent to 1.21 million
futures and options contracts, government data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That was the first drop since early August.  Michelin sank 6 percent to 45.53 euros after Morgan Stanley
lowered its recommendation for the world’s second-largest
tiremaker to “underweight” from “overweight.”  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  dropped 7.4 percent to 14.35 francs after
Morgan Stanley downgraded the banking-software maker to “equal
weight” from “overweight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  