-- 
Ex-Soros Trader Bessent Returns to $25 Billion Firm as CIO

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-09-19T20:18:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/ex-soros-trader-scott-bessent-returns-to-25-billion-firm-as-cio.html
Scott Bessent, who managed  George
Soros ’s European investments for eight years, is returning to
 Soros Fund Management  LLC as chief investment officer to oversee
the $25 billion that belongs to the billionaire, his family and
foundations, according to a letter sent to employees.  Bessent, 49, succeeds  Keith Anderson , 51, who left in July
after his performance over the previous 18 months lagged behind
peers. At the time of Anderson’s departure, the New York-based
firm told clients it would return all outside capital, less than
$1 billion, by the end of this year.  “I am pleased to announce that Scott Bessent will join
Soros Fund Management LLC,” Soros, 81, wrote today in the
letter, calling it part of the transition to a family office.
Jonathan Soros will leave the money-management arm to be
chairman of the foundation, according to the letter.  In choosing Bessent, Soros and his sons Robert and Jonathan
are turning to someone who was mentored not only by Soros but
also by former Soros trader Nicholas Roditi and  Stanley Druckenmiller , a chief strategist for 12 years who produced 30
percent annualized returns during his tenure.  Bessent will be the fifth CIO to hold the job since April
2000, when Druckenmiller and Roditi left the firm. He was the
second-longest tenured investment professional at the firm after
Druckenmiller when he left in June 2000.  Fund Trails Peers  As CIO, Bessent will be in charge of  asset allocation  and
sizing the biggest trades, managing internal teams, choosing and
monitoring external money managers, risk management, putting on
hedges and making tactical investments.  Soros Fund Management was ranked as the seventh-largest
hedge fund in the world as of April 7, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Michael Vachon , a spokesman for Soros Fund Management,
declined to comment on the hire.  While Soros’s flagship Quantum Endowment Fund returned
about 20 percent a year, on average, since 1969, its performance
suffered in the 18 months or so through June, a person familiar
with the firm said in July. In the first half of this year,
Quantum lost about 6 percent, the person said, following a gain
of 2.5 percent in 2010. Other macro funds returned 5.6 percent
in the same year-and-a-half period, according to Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Yale Graduate  Bessent, who graduated from  Yale University  in 1984 with a
bachelor’s degree, had originally wanted to be a journalist.
Instead, he found a job in finance working at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co., and later for the Olayan Group, a Saudi Arabian-
based holding company, and then for  Jim Chanos ’s Kynikos
Associates Ltd., a short-only fund based in New York.  Soros Fund Management was Chanos’s biggest client, so in
1991, when Bessent found himself with few ideas on stocks he
wanted to bet would fall, he joined Soros, Bessent told  Steven
Drobny  in his 2006 book “Inside the House of Money.”  He was hired as an analyst at about the same time Soros’s
European portfolio manager was struggling. Bessent, who had
spent time analyzing European companies, was sent to  London  to
help out two weeks before Soros fired the whole European team,
leaving Bessent alone to manage a $300 million portfolio, about
a third of the assets in Soros’s main fund then, Bessent told
Drobny. By the time he left Soros, he was overseeing about $1.5
billion, generating annualized returns of 26.5 percent.  At Soros, he was also the head of global research and co-
head of external-manager selection.  Family Office  Bessent left in June 2000 to start New York-based Bessent
Capital. He raised $1 billion, including $150 million from
Soros.  Bessent had been a macro trader at Soros, trying to profit
from macroeconomic trends by wagering on stocks, bonds
currencies and commodities. He decided to start a European
stocks fund and a global equities fund because investors had
lost faith in macro funds such as Soros’s, he told Drobny.  After losing more than 10 percent in his European stock
fund in the first half of 2001 and having investors pull money,
Bessent decided to go back to macro investing. In 2005, he
returned client capital and converted the firm into a family
office.  In 2007, he became director of research and strategy at
Protégé Partners, a New York-based fund of funds group. He left
at the end of last year and was in the process of forming
KeySquare Group LP, a macro fund, when he was recruited by Soros
Fund Management. His fund was scheduled to start trading next
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  