-- 
Ex-Treasury Restructuring Chief Millstein Starts Own Firm

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-09-19T18:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/ex-treasury-restructuring-chief-millstein-starts-advisory-firm.html
Jim Millstein , the U.S. Treasury
Department’s former chief restructuring officer who helped
oversee the bailouts of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , is forming a turnaround advisory firm.  Millstein, who left the government in February after
joining in 2009, plans to focus on restructuring and raising a
distressed-debt fund. The former  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  banker, who was an
aide to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , will base
Millstein & Co. in Washington. He weighed returning to Treasury
to work on restructuring  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  or to take a
senior-level job at another firm.  “I concluded at least for the moment that I wanted more
control over the business that I would have had in an existing
bank,” said Millstein, 56, who hired three employees and said
he plans to take on more after bonus season on  Wall Street . “I
had considered going back to the government over the summer, but
the confirmation process is so broken it might have proven to be
a road to nowhere, and I was ready to get back to work.”  Millstein, who said he plans to open an office in New York
as he also seeks investors for his distressed fund, is starting
the company amid upheaval in the restructuring ranks that helped
governments and corporations navigate the longest recession
since World War II.  Henry Miller, 66, who co-founded advisory Miller Buckfire &
Co., and Mo Meghji, who helped start rival Loughlin Meghji &
Co., resigned from those companies this year while boutique
investment bank Centerview Partners LLP is starting a
restructuring practice.  Miller Buckfire executives approached Millstein about
joining the firm, people familiar with the matter said in June.  Blackstone, Moelis  Centerview and Millstein will compete with established
restructuring practices at companies such as  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , Moelis & Co., Perella Weinberg Partners LP and Lazard, the
largest independent merger adviser.  Harry Wilson, a former member of the Obama administration’s
automotive taskforce that restructured General Motors Corp. and
Chrysler LLC, also started a turnaround advisory this year. The
firm, based in Scarsdale, New York, is called MAEVA Advisors
LLC. Wilson is on the board of auto supplier Visteon Corp.  Millstein, a bankruptcy attorney, joined Lazard in 2000 as
a managing director in the restructuring group. Previously, he
was a lawyer with Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, where he
led the restructuring practice. At Lazard, he worked on the
restructuring of cable operator Charter Communications Inc. and
with the  United Auto Workers  in negotiations with GM, Ford Motor
Co., Chrysler and Delphi Corp.  ‘Practical Limits’  Millstein said he was interested in returning to work on
housing issues for the administration and recently talked with
people in the home-lending and construction industries to ask
them for ideas on ways to address the mortgage crisis.  “While it is clear Fannie and Freddie need to be
fundamentally restructured to end government conservatorship,
there are practical limits to the bandwidth available in D.C.
for fundamental reform,” Millstein said. He decided that he
could be “more productive doing restructuring-related work in
the private sector,” he said.  Millstein joined former Lazard bankers Steven Rattner, 59,
and Ronald Bloom, 56, in working for President Barack Obama’s
administration. Rattner was head of Obama’s auto-industry rescue
and Bloom was the president’s top manufacturing adviser after
working on the auto bailouts.  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, was rescued in 2008
in a bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion. The company repaid
the remaining $21 billion on its Federal Reserve credit line in
January and the Treasury converted its preferred stake into 92
percent of the insurer’s common stock. That holding was cut to
77 percent in a May share sale.  Millstein has a bachelor’s degree from Princeton
University, a master’s from the  University of California ,
Berkeley, and a law degree from  Columbia University .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  