-- 
Texas Submitted Incomplete Data on Electoral Map, U.S. Says

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-19T23:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/texas-submitted-incomplete-data-on-electoral-map-u-s-says-1-.html
Texas  submitted incomplete data to
the Justice Department to win approval for its new electoral map
after the last U.S. census added four congressional districts in
the state, the U.S. said.  The department’s civil rights division said it needed more
information from Texas to decide whether its redistricting plan
complies with the Voting Rights Act. In a filing today in
federal court in Washington, the department said Texas’s
“informal submission” was inadequate.  The department rejected an assertion in the “informal”
submission that the Texas plan complies with the Voting Rights
Act and denied that the plan “maintains or increases the
ability of minority voters to elect their candidate of choice.”  Texas sued the Obama administration in July, seeking “pre-
clearance” for the state’s new maps, a step required of all
states with a history of voting-rights violations. The case is
being handled by a panel of two federal district judges and one
appellate judge.  Xochitl Hinojosa, a  Justice Department  spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the filing. Jerry Strickland, a spokesman
for Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott , didn’t  respond to phone
calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  The majority-Republican Legislature redrew electoral maps
after the state grew enough to gain four seats in Congress,
adding almost 4.3 million residents since 2000, according to the
2010 census.  Perry’s Bill  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who is running for the
Republican presidential nomination, signed the bill with the
election map created in June by legislators.  Congressional representatives whose jobs are threatened by
the redistricting plan sued Perry and the state in federal court
in  San Antonio  to block approval of the map, as did Hispanic
voting-rights organizations and Travis County, which includes
the capital, Austin.  A ruling in that case is on hold pending the outcome of the
 Washington  lawsuit.  The Washington case is Texas v. the U.S., 1:11-cv-1303,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The
Texas case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-0360, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Texas (San Antonio).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 