-- 
Mexico Cenbank May Cut in 2011, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 
2011-09-21T02:39:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/mexico-s-central-bank-may-cut-in-2011-morgan-stanley-says-1-.html
(Corrects size and scope of peso move in 10th paragraph of
story from Sept. 19.)  Mexico’s central bank may cut its
benchmark lending rate before year-end,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said,
joining six banks in projecting a monetary easing.  Banxico, as Mexico’s central bank is known, already opened
the door for a rate cut at its last monetary policy meeting on
Aug. 26, Morgan Stanley economist Luis Arcentales wrote in an e-
mailed research note today.  Policy makers will consider adjusting monetary policy if it
becomes too restrictive in the face of a worsening outlook for
the global economy, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said
last month. The bank held the overnight rate at 4.5 percent the
21st consecutive meeting last month.  “Add to that a well-behaved inflation outlook at home, the
prospects for a new round of easing in monetary policy from the
Fed and a softening in  Mexico ’s growth story and the case for
easing appears stronger,” Arcentales wrote.  Morgan Stanley expects the central bank to cut the rate by
25 basis points this year to 4.25 percent and by a further 25
basis points in early 2012, according to the note.  A rate cut will depend on the foreign exchange rate,
Arcentales wrote. The recent depreciation of the Mexican peso
will “likely reduce the authorities’ incentive to cut rates as
it has already done some of the central bank’s easing job by
translating into a modest loosening in monetary conditions,”
Arcentales wrote.  Morgan Stanley had previously forecast that rates would
remain at 4.5 percent this year and in 2012.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  are among six financial institutions that already
forecast a rate cut as soon as October.  Swaps traders began predicting on Sept. 2 that the bank
will trim rates next month.  Mexican Peso  Mexico’s peso is heading for its longest losing streak in
15 years amid mounting concern that  Greece  may default on its
debt. The peso declined 1 percent to 13.1781 per  U.S. dollar  at
12:33 p.m.  New York  time, from 13.0464 on Sept. 16. A weakening
in the currency today would mark the first time since June 1996
that it has declined for eight straight sessions.  The peso has fallen 6.4 percent this year, the biggest
decline among the seven major Latin American currencies tracked
by Bloomberg after  Brazil .  Mexico’s economic fundamentals mean the peso should pare
its slide against the dollar, limiting the inflationary effect
on the economy, Carstens said Sept. 15 in New York.  “At some point, the peso will have to revalue again,”
Carstens said at the  Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit  in New York.
“It is not advisable to assess the monetary conditions of
Mexico” on the current  exchange rate .  “The balance of risks in Mexico still calls for a
relatively neutral monetary policy, which is precisely where we
stand today,” Carstens said. “There may be circumstances in
the future that calls for lower rates.”  Mexico’s consumer prices rose 0.16 percent in August from
the month before, the national statistics agency reported Sept.
8. The 12-month inflation rate fell to 3.42 percent from 3.55
percent, the national statistics agency reported.  Banxico meets Oct. 14 and will held its last monetary
meeting of this year Dec. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  