-- 
Expert-Networking Insider Trading Trial to Enter Jury Deliberation Phase

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-20T15:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/expert-networking-executive-conspired-to-pass-secrets-u-s-says.html
A Manhattan federal jury began
deliberating the fate of James Fleishman, an ex-Primary Global
Research LLC executive charged with helping pass confidential
information as part of an insider-trading scheme.  Fleishman, 42, of  Santa Clara , California, is charged with
conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  and conspiracy to commit
 wire fraud . Prosecutors said he took part in a scheme to pass
confidential information from employees at  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , and Samsung Electronics Co. to fund
managers. Fleishman, who has pleaded not guilty, faces as long
as 25 years in prison if convicted.  Prosecutors allege that Fleishman, as a salesman for the
firm, obtained and passed confidential data from technology
company employees who were moonlighting as consultants for
 Mountain View , California-based Primary Global. The secret tips
were given to certain fund managers who paid Primary Global for
consultation calls, prosecutors said.  “He knew confidential information was being passed
repeatedly to members of the investment community,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney  David Leibowitz  told jurors in closing arguments
yesterday. “He not only knew it, he helped make it happen.”  Dozens of E-Mails  Leibowitz cited dozens of e-mails Fleishman sent and phone
conversations he had with cooperating witnesses that were
secretly recorded by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .
Prosecutors also cited the testimony of three technology company
employees who gave evidence for the government.  Primary Global, known as PGR, matches investors with
specialists who provide insight into specific markets. Fleishman
earned more than $800,000 from 2008 to 2010, according to
records shown by the U.S. Consultants were paid as much as $300
a call, with some earning as much as $200,000, the government
said.  In his closing argument,  Ethan Balogh , a lawyer for
Fleishman, said there was no evidence his client knew that
consultants were violating compliance agreements with their
employers.  Balogh said Fleishman relied on the expert networkers’ own
representations about their ability to do consulting outside
their companies. He also cited an agreement the consultants
signed and submitted to Primary Global confirming they had
permission to do such work and agreeing not to pass confidential
information during calls.  ‘Did Not Agree’  The defense attorney said the technology company insiders
who testified for the prosecution were secretive about their
criminal activities and that Fleishman had no idea whether some
consultants he recruited crossed a line and passed confidential
data to fund managers.  “He did not agree with anybody to steal information,”
Balogh said. “He did not intend that any PGR consultant would
violate their agreement with their employer to not provide
confidential information.”  Among the witnesses against Fleishman was Bob Nguyen, a
former Primary Global analyst who pleaded guilty and said he
knowingly passed confidential company information to Fleishman
from consultants.  Others who testified for the U.S. during the 2 1/2-week
trial were Daniel Devore, a former global-supply manager of
Round Rock, Texas-based Dell; Mark Anthony Longoria, a former
Advanced Micro Devices manager; and Steven Hwang, an ex-Samsung
Electronics employee. All except Hwang pleaded guilty to passing
confidential information to fund managers during Primary Global
consulting calls.  Apple IPad Data  Hwang testified that during a December 2009 lunch in
 California  with Fleishman and a  fund manager , he passed
confidential shipping data for Apple Inc. iPad components, four
months before the iPad made its U.S. debut.  Since November, 15 people have been charged by federal
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in a probe of expert networkers and fund managers.
Twelve have pleaded guilty, including Noah Freeman, a former
portfolio manager with SAC Capital Advisors LP, and Samir Barai,
the founder of Barai Capital Management LP.  Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant, was
convicted at trial in June of securities fraud and conspiracy.
Fleishman is the second defendant in the investigation to go to
trial.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-CR-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  