-- 
Express Scripts, Medco Argue Deal Won’t Harm Competition

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-09-20T22:57:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/express-scripts-to-tell-congress-medco-bid-would-cut-drug-costs.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  and  Medco
Health Solutions Inc. (MHS) , facing congressional scrutiny over their
plan to form the biggest U.S. pharmacy-benefits manager, told
lawmakers the deal would preserve competition and lower costs
while improving patient care.  The combined company would control less than one-third of
U.S. pharmacy-benefits sales, Express Scripts Chief Executive
Officer George Paz said today at a House Judiciary subcommittee
hearing. St. Louis-based Express Scripts agreed in July to
acquire Medco for $29.1 billion.  “By our estimates, the combined historical shares of the
companies would be approximately 30 percent,” Paz said. “This
range falls well inside the parameters of mergers which have
passed antitrust regulatory review.”  While the Judiciary Committee’s top Democrat,
Representative  John Conyers  of  Michigan , had called for the
hearing, members from both parties said their constituents were
worried about the deal’s potential impact on competition, drug
prices and patient care.  “I have serious questions and concerns that the merger
could worsen the climate for independent pharmacies and lead to
less access and higher costs for patients,” Representative Tom Marino, a  Pennsylvania  Republican, said at the hearing. “I’m
especially concerned about the consolidation it would cause in
the mail-order and specialty-drug markets.”  FTC Review  The transaction requires approval from the Federal Trade
Commission. The combined company would help cut health-care
costs by extracting lower prices from drug companies and
ensuring more patients take medicines as directed, Paz and David Snow, chief executive officer of  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-
based Medco, told the panel.  “Combining Medco’s expertise in advanced clinical pharmacy
with Express Scripts’ expertise in behavioral science will
create a new entity that is uniquely able to provide significant
progress toward closing gaps in care, saving dollars and saving
lives,” Snow said.  Pharmacy-benefits managers act as middlemen for drugmakers,
pharmacies and health-plan sponsors, negotiating prices and
managing the use of drugs by patients. Their profits are tied to
cutting their clients’ drug costs.  There are more than 40 pharmacy-benefits managers in the
U.S., and more than 20 of them service the health plans of
Fortune 500 companies, Paz said.  Customer Increase  Express Scripts’s customer base would increase 50 percent
to 135 million upon clearance of the Medco purchase, according
to  Arthur Henderson , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,
 Tennessee . The biggest rival,  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , serves 85
million customers.  “A merger that reduces the number of key competitors from
three to two raises significant competitive concerns,” said
 David Balto , a Washington-based antitrust attorney representing
consumer groups, business organizations and specialty pharmacies
who oppose the Medco takeover.  “It’s crucial for us to have aggressive rivalry to try to
drive down health-care costs, but with only two major PBMs in
the market, that’s certainly going to be lost,” Balto, a former
FTC policy director, said yesterday in an interview.  It’s “not accurate” to say there would be only two major
pharmacy-benefits managers if the Medco purchase is approved,
said  Brian Henry , an Express Scripts spokesman, in an e-mail.
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  will be “a fourth significant player,”
he said.  UnitedHealth Contract  Medco announced July 21 that it won’t renew an $11 billion
contract with UnitedHealth after it expires in December 2012.
UnitedHealth, of Minnetonka,  Minnesota , has said it plans to
take its pharmacy-benefits business in-house.  Large pharmacy-benefits managers already use their size to
push pharmacists into onerous contract terms while steering
patients toward their own mail-order prescription services,
said Joseph Lech, owner of five independent pharmacies in
Pennsylvania.  Express Scripts’ purchase of Medco, if approved, will
create a “mega-PBM” that will harm patients by “reducing
choice, decreasing access to pharmacy services and ultimately
leading to higher prescription drug costs,” Lech, a member of
the  National Community Pharmacists Association  in Alexandria,
 Virginia , told the panel.  Lech, a practicing pharmacist for 30 years, said pharmacy-
benefits managers handle 90 percent of the prescriptions he
dispenses, and a combination of  Express Scripts  and Medco would
handle 50 percent.  ‘Forced Out’  “I didn’t get into the practice of pharmacy to eventually
think I would be forced out,” Lech told the panel. “I can’t
deny that there may come a time when the decision to say, ‘I
can’t do it anymore,’ happens.”  Snow said pharmacy-benefits managers operate in “a very
competitive environment” that puts stress on “the economics of
an independent pharmacy.” Still, he said his company wants such
pharmacies to survive. Many independent retailers join group
purchasing organizations to gain more clout in negotiating
contract terms, he said.  “We need these retail pharmacies,” Snow said. “Eighty-
five percent of all the prescriptions we do for all of our
members come from retail pharmacies.”  While the congressional hearing won't directly affect the FTC’s
review of the Medco purchase, it “can be influential in shaping
public opinion,” said  Steven Halper , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in  New York .  “We continue to believe that there is sufficient
competitiveness within the broader pharmacy benefit market that
there is a good probability that the FTC will not challenge
it,” Halper said before the hearing in a note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  