-- 
Fannie and Freddie Should Raise Mortgage Fees, DeMarco Says

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-09-19T16:32:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/fannie-and-freddie-should-raise-mortgage-fees-to-cover-risk.html
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac don’t
charge lenders enough for their mortgage guarantees and should
raise their fees, the companies’ chief regulator said.  The government-owned mortgage companies’ pricing for credit
guarantees “is less than one would observe in a purely private,
competitive market,” said Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of
the Federal Housing Finance Agency. DeMarco spoke today at a
meeting of the North Carolina Bankers Association in Raleigh,
North Carolina.  “Private firms would likely target a higher rate of return
than the enterprises, and the market would demand higher levels
of capital,” DeMarco said. “I would anticipate that the
enterprises will continue the gradual process of increasing
guarantee fees.”  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac charge lenders a fee in return
for guaranteeing principal and interest on mortgage loans, a
system intended to boost lending and homeownership.  The companies were taken into government conservatorship
three years ago, when mounting defaults pushed them toward
insolvency. Since then, they have drawn more than $170 billion
in taxpayer aid.  Higher premiums would reduce losses at the companies and
limit their burden on taxpayers. Because the premiums are added
to a home loan’s interest rate, mortgages would become more
expensive.  $28 Billion  President Barack Obama, as part of his budget plan, this
month recommended increasing the premiums by 10 basis points. He
estimated the higher fees would save taxpayers $28 billion over
10 years.  Higher premiums would be an important step toward reducing
the market dominance of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, said Robert
Davis, executive vice president of the American Bankers
Association, a Washington trade group.  “If you’re giving the government guarantee away for
essentially nothing you’ll never have a private market,” Davis
said today.  DeMarco said he also is considering eliminating discounts
for big lenders and higher premiums for loans made in states
where it can take years to complete a foreclosure.  “Foreclosure processing is driven by state and local
law,” DeMarco told reporters. “This is simply pricing for that
risk.”  Under Pressure  DeMarco has been under pressure from lawmakers and some
economists to make mortgages less expensive and easier to get,
moves that could boost the housing market. In his speech today,
he reiterated the FHFA’s statutory mission to “preserve and
conserve” Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac assets.  “We all knew that reforming the housing finance system was
going to be difficult, but I think the general expectation was
that more progress would have been made by now,” DeMarco said.
He called the current system “broken beyond repair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 