-- 
Farm-Animal Prescriptions Urged for U.S. to Cut Drug Resistance

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-09-19T20:47:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/farm-animal-prescriptions-urged-for-u-s-to-cut-drug-resistance.html
American farmers would be forced to
get prescriptions for livestock antibiotics under a plan
developed in  Denmark  and promoted by infectious disease doctors
to stem a rising tide of drug-resistant infections in people.  Healthy livestock routinely get antibiotics in the U.S. to
promote growth and prevent illness. The practice, though, allows
germs to mutate within their bodies, spreading into meat and
swapping DNA with flora in the human gut. That’s a recipe for
transferring resistance, said  James Johnson , a  University of
Minnesota  researcher at a medical meeting yesterday.  Resistant infections cost the U.S. more than  $20 billion
annually , according to a 2009 study in the journal Clinical
Infectious Diseases. By following a method used in Denmark that
tracks data on livestock antibiotics, the U.S. may thwart
resistance, said Lindsay Grayson, chief of the  Interscience
Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy .  “My main advice for the U.S. is that all antibiotics used
on animals should be given only with a prescription,” said
Henrik Caspar Wegener, the director of the National Food
Institute in Denmark. “That’s not the case at the moment.
Antibiotics are medicines. They should be prescribed by someone
educated to make that decision.”  Six Times More  Wegener spoke yesterday during a panel session at the
conference in  Chicago . Though the data is rough, the U.S. uses
about six times more antibiotics than Denmark to produce about
2.2 pounds of meat, Wegener said in his presentation.  By requiring prescriptions for all antibiotics, the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  can make more-informed decisions
about how the drugs are used and lead them to see where their
use may be eliminated, he said. Additionally, more data may help
officials persuade the U.S. meat-producing industry, which had
2009 sales of $154.8 billion, to change its practices, Wegener
said.  Currently, antibiotics are available by prescription, in an
animal’s feed with the approval of a veterinarian, and over-the-
counter without a prescription, said Bill Flynn, the deputy
director for science policy at the FDA’s center for veterinary
medicine.  The agency issued draft guidance on June 28, 2010, that
would require veterinarian approval for all antibiotics,
eliminating over-the-counter availability. The guidance isn’t
yet final and the FDA is accepting public comment.  Call for More Surveillance  “That may have implications for tracking, but overall, it
provides a level of control that isn’t there right now,” Flynn
said in a telephone interview. The agency is scheduled to
provide a follow up to its guidance later this year, he said.  While Liz Wagstrom, chief veterinarian at the National Pork
Producers Council, echoed the call for more surveillance, she
said requiring prescriptions would be more difficult here than
in  Denmark , a country that’s smaller than the state of  Iowa . The
U.S.’s larger size and less homogeneous population make tracking
efforts more complex, she said.  “Really, until we have data about uses and trends in
resistance, we’re talking in generalities,” Wagstrom said in a
telephone interview. For smaller producers and those in remote
geographic areas, having a veterinarian prescribe every use
could be difficult, she said.  Gary Mickelson, a spokesman for Springdale, Arkansas-based
Tyson Food Inc., the largest U.S. meat producer, referred
questions to the American Meat Institute.  Food infections sickened 48 million Americans last year,
leading to 128,000 hospitalizations and 3,000 deaths, according
to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  A First Step  The Denmark program, dubbed  DENMAP , would only be a first
step, Denmark’s Wegener said. The European Union barred any non-
therapeutic antibiotic use in livestock in 2006.  A study two years later in the American Journal of
Veterinary Research found that mortality rates among the animals
didn’t change despite the EU ban on non-therapeutic use, which
slashed use of the drugs by half. In 2010, the European Food
Safety Authority reported that the prevalence of food-borne
illness in  Europe  dropped in the four years after the ban.  “For us, it is quite clear,” said  Awa Aidara-Kane , the
leader of the  World Health Organization ’s antimicrobial
resistance group, in an interview. “Special attention should be
paid to antimicrobial agents that are critically important for
human infection.”  GAO Report  There has been some movement toward more monitoring in the
U.S. A Sept. 7 report from the Government Accountability Office
gave the issue new prominence, recommending the FDA work with
drug companies on a voluntary basis to increase veterinary
supervision of antibiotics.  Data collected by the departments of Health and Human
Services and Agriculture “lack crucial details necessary to
examine trends and understand the relationship between use and
resistance,” the report said.  The GAO said the data collected by agencies don’t show what
type of animals are getting antibiotics or for what purpose. The
agency also said the data are collected in a haphazard manner
and “are not representative of food animals and retail meat
across the nation.”  “We agree with the GAO’s findings,” said Betsy Booren,
the director of scientific affairs for the American Meat
Institute Foundation. “We think more data is needed and the
report is reasonable, because without it, we can’t look at the
trends.”  Healthier animals from antibiotic use may also mean safer
food, Booren said.  Data Collection  The FDA currently collects sales and distribution data,
which isn’t detailed enough to say what antibiotics go toward
what animals, the FDA’s Flynn said. So if an antibiotic is
approved for multiple uses in cows and pigs, the FDA doesn’t
know what uses it is prescribed for, or even which animal gets
the medicine.  Wegener said he met with GAO investigators in Denmark, and
the investigators also talked with farmers and veterinarians.  “We had a lengthy discussion about the situation in
Demark,” Wegener said. “I just wonder if there is the
political will to change anything about antibiotic use in the
U.S.”  The GAO endorsed an idea proposed last year by the FDA to
work with drugmakers to limit access to antibiotics for animals
and increase veterinary supervision. “Except for one $70,400
USDA project,” all other federal programs to educate producers
and veterinarians use of antibiotics and alternatives have
ended, the report said.  “We all agree there should be greater veterinary oversight
on antimicrobials, but logistically it’s a challenge,” said
Christine Hoang, the assistant director of scientific activities
at the  American Veterinary Medical Association .  Regulations for prescriptions and certain over-the-counter
medicines vary by state, Hoang said. Veterinary feed directives
are federally regulated.  The veterinary association’s steering committee will meet
with the FDA tomorrow to discuss the issue, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 