-- 
First Solar’s Record Efficiency May Best China Solar Panels

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-19T20:14:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/first-solar-cuts-costs-to-help-it-rival-china-s-photovoltaics.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , which achieved
record efficiency for a thin-film solar cell, will incorporate
the advance into its manufacturing technology next quarter to
outpace cost reductions by Chinese rivals and compete against
fossil fuels without  government aid .  First Solar developed a cell that converts 17.3 percent of
sunlight into electricity and applying those techniques may
yield conversion rates of 15.3 percent in mass production, said
Chief Technology Officer David Eaglesham. That compares with
11.7 percent the company averaged in the second quarter.  “There were about a dozen changes that we’ll be phasing
into production,” starting in the fourth quarter, Eaglesham
said in an interview at the company’s factory in Perrysburg,
 Ohio , on Sept. 2. He didn’t say when the improvements will be
fully implemented.  First Solar is the world’s largest thin-film company and
the reductions may make it the first in the solar industry to
compete on price with fossil fuels without subsidies, said  Mark
Bachman , an analyst at Avian Securities LLC. That would be a
victory for President  Barack Obama , who is under fire for
supporting Solyndra LLC, a competing company that received $535
million in U.S. loan guarantees before filing for bankruptcy on
Sept. 6. First Solar has $5.35 billion in federal loan
guarantees.  “First Solar is leading the pack,” Bachman said in an
interview from  Boston . “Tax credits will help for the next five
years, and they can stand on their own after that.”  Industry Slump  First Solar shares fell $1.79, or 2.1 percent, to $83.91 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading, after a report from Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. today predicted slow demand growth this year for
solar panels. The company has fallen 36 percent this year,
outperforming the 53 percent slump in the Bloomberg Industries
Large Solar index. Solar companies tumbled as demand slowed and
subsidies were pared in Germany and  Italy , two of the biggest
markets, and prices for panels dropped.  Already, First Solar has the lowest costs in the industry,
producing so-called thin-film solar panels for 73 cents a watt.
The higher efficiency levels will drive those costs down
further, making the panels more attractive than traditional
photovoltaics.  U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu has mostly avoided funding
polysilicon-based panels, betting on thin-film to drive down the
installed cost of solar power to $1 a watt by 2020, a  75 percent
reduction  from the current industry average. That would make
solar cheaper than buying power from utilities that mostly
consume coal and natural gas.  Thin Film Technology  Based in Tempe,  Arizona , First Solar uses  cadmium telluride 
as a semiconducting material, applying it in a film directly to
glass in an automated process. Traditional PV products are made
from polysilicon, which must be made in furnaces, sliced into
wafers, formed into cells and assembled into panels.  Both technologies differ from Solyndra, which used a thin
film made of copper, indium, gallium and selenium to conduct
electricity through  tubes of glass  mounted to a metal frame. The
process yielded panels that were attractive when polysilicon
traded as high as $475 a kilogram in 2008. They were too costly
to compete when the raw material sank to $50 last year.  Polysilicon Prices  Plunging polysilicon prices helped manufacturers in  China 
slash their panel costs, said  Anthony Kim , a solar analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in New York. They typically have
higher efficiencies than thin-film panels, and cost about 27
cents a watt more than First Solar’s products, said Jenny Chase,
an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  based in Changzhou, China, says it
produced panels for $1.16 a watt in the second quarter, 43 cents
of which came from the cost of silicon. JinkoSolar Holding Co.,
another Chinese company, had a cost of $1.07 per watt including
37 cents for silicon.  First Solar’s progress may make it able to offer solar
panels at a price competitive with fossil fuels by 2016, when
tax credits for solar projects expire, said Paul Clegg, an
analyst at Mizuho Securities USA in New York.  “First Solar can probably still make money if the tax
credit expires in 2016 but their margins will be lower,” Clegg
said. “There are so many variables: where will  gas prices  be,
where will oil be?”  First Solar’s effort to increase efficiency will boost the
amount of electricity each panel generates and reduce the total
cost of energy over the life of the product. The efficiency
record for a cadmium-telluride cell reached in July equates to
about 15.3 percent for a full-size panel, Eaglesham said. He
wouldn’t say when those panels will be available.  He plans to reach that by better managing the light that
comes through glass panels, reducing electrical losses and
improving factory throughput, as well as some other techniques
that the company has chosen not to disclose.  “Just better optical management plus electrical losses
isn’t enough,” Eaglesham said. “We did something else that we
can’t discuss but everyone on the floor is buzzing about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  