-- 
Five Questions For Vanguard's Jack Bogle

-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-27T16:08:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/five-questions-for-jack-bogle-vanguard-index-fund-pioneer.html
Jack Bogle, founder of the  Vanguard Group , launched the first
index fund 35 years ago on Aug. 31, 1976, with $11.4 million
in assets. His fund took the then-radical step of holding all
the equities that made up an index such as the  Standard &
Poor's 500 , rather than paying a manager to pick stocks. Also
radical: The fund charged a quarter of the fees of a typical
actively managed mutual fund.  Index-based assets in U.S. mutual funds and exchange-traded
funds now total $1.9 trillion, according to the  Investment
Company Institute . Some $900 billion of that is at Vanguard.  Bogle, 82, retired as Vanguard's chief executive officer in
1996. As head of Vanguard’s Bogle Financial Markets Research
Center, he continues to speak and write in his usual
no-holds-barred style on the benefits of indexing, the rate of
return investors can expect from stocks and bonds, and the
state of the mutual fund industry.  1. What investments are particularly overvalued?  Gold is probably particularly overvalued. Here's this
totally speculative so-called investment, which has no
internal rate of return. Stocks have earnings growth and
dividend yields, and bonds have interest coupons. Gold has
nothing except somebody's opinion. But in this kind of
environment, it may take years, or maybe even decades, to get
back to a reasonable level. When will speculators stop
speculating? I don't think anyone knows the answer to that.  2. Do any investment categories look undervalued?  I don’t think anything is seriously undervalued. Stocks are
fairly valued and should probably give a better return than
bonds. Over the next decade, bonds, based on today's spectrum
of yields, should give a return of about 3.5 percent per year.
Stocks have a 2.25 percent dividend yield and their earnings
should grow at least 5 percent. So that would be a 7 percent
or 7.5 percent investment return, assuming no change in the
price-earnings multiple. In a decade, at 3.5 percent per
year, your bond assets will grow about 50 percent, and at 7.5
percent your stocks will grow 100 percent.  3. What trend in the fund industry troubles you?  It’s this growing speculative fever that affects even the
mutual fund industry. Shareholders are holding their mutual
funds for three years on average. That’s absurd. And the funds
themselves are holding the average stock for about one year.
That’s equally absurd. The fund industry has turned into a
marketing business, and the important thing is getting a lot
of assets under management. It’s run for the benefit of
financial conglomerates that own most of the large mutual fund
management companies.  4. Is this the worst investment environment you've seen in
your lifetime?  Oh my goodness, no, not at all. I’ve been in this business
for 60 years. So I’ve seen 50 percent declines in 1973-4, in
2000-3, and in 2007-9. This decline is not nearly that much.
Could this get to be 50 percent? I doubt it, but I don’t know.
The best investment advice I ever got came when I was a runner
for a brokerage firm when I was in college. One of the other
runners said: “Nobody knows nothing.” And of course that’s
true. It’s not given to us to know. The future is not ours to
see. You try to make intelligent decisions, have an
intelligent plan that balances risk and reward, balances
stocks and bonds, and ignore the noise in the market.  5. It seems there is a lot of hopelessness about peoples'
investment options. How would you describe the current
situation?  This is not a particularly cheap market to invest in.
But, the problem is that we must invest. We can’t stand back.
If you don’t save anything, I guarantee you will end up with
absolutely nothing. There’s no such thing as a bad market. If
the market goes way down, that’s good for buyers and bad for
sellers. We’ve let the emotions—the excitement of the short
term—take over our thinking about [our goals]—basically a
long-term plan to fund retirement. Maybe not today, but over
the long run stocks are going to be the best way to get there.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ben Steverman at
 bsteverman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Suzanne
Woolley at  swoolley2@bloomberg.net . 