-- 
Fortis Healthcare Falls on Plan to Combine India, Global Units

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-09-19T12:18:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/fortis-healthcare-to-consolidate-india-international-operations.html
Fortis Healthcare  India  Ltd.,
India’s second-biggest operator of hospitals, fell to the lowest
in almost seven months after agreeing to buy the international
business of its billionaire founders.  The combined entity will own 74 hospitals, and a network of
medical facilities in  Hong Kong ,  Australia ,  New Zealand ,  Vietnam 
and Sri Lanka, the company said in an e-mailed statement today.
The company will invest $1 billion in expanding at home and
overseas in the next three years, Chairman Malvinder Singh told
reporters in  New Delhi  today.  Fortis fell 1.8 percent to the lowest since Feb. 24 after
the company’s decision to reverse the plan to keep the two units
separate. The acquisition by the Indian unit, which last year
reported a profit margin of 14 percent before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, of the overseas one may not lead
to increased value for shareholders, according Priti Arora, an
analyst at Kotak Institutional Equities.  “I’m not clear why they are investing so much overseas,”
Arora said. “The market is still under penetrated in India and
there is room for lots of growth.”  The Indian and the overseas units each generate about $500
million in revenue, Singh said. An independent company will be
appointed to determine the valuation for the transaction, Fortis
Healthcare said in the statement.  Fortis Healthcare trades at 40 times estimated earnings,
compared with 28 times for larger rival  Apollo Hospitals
Enterprise Ltd. (APHS) , data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 18-member
BSE India Healthcare Index is valued at 19 times earnings.  “This move doesn’t make Fortis a better stock to hold,”
said Arora.  Benefits  Fortis  separated  the overseas entity into Fortis Healthcare
International Pte Ltd. in September last year, after the company
lost its S$3.2 billion ($2.5 billion) bid to acquire Singapore’s
Parkway Holdings Ltd.  “In a very short period of time we’ve been able to create
a very substantial business internationally,” Singh told
reporters in New Delhi today. “Moving forward there are huge
benefits in terms of jointly leveraging medical capabilities,
management capabilities and synergies.”  Billionaire Singh will be the executive chairman of the
combined entity, which will be renamed  Fortis Healthcare Ltd. (FORH) 
His brother Shivinder Singh will be executive vice chairman and
Vishal Bali will be the chief executive officer, according to
the statement.  The Singh family controls 81.5 percent of the company,
according to stock exchange filings in June. About 60 percent of
those shares have been pledged as collateral to lenders,
according to a statement sent to the  stock exchanges  last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  