-- 
Freeport Cerro Verde Miners End Stoppage, May Strike Again

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-09-19T13:40:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/freeport-cerro-verde-peru-miners-end-stoppage-may-strike-again.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX) ’s Peruvian copper miners may strike again next week after
ending a four-day work stoppage over the weekend, a union
official said.  Workers at Freeport’s  Sociedad Minera Cerro Verde SAA (CVERDEC1)  mine
ended the strike Sept. 17 after it was declared illegal by the
government and clashes with police wounded six workers, union
General Secretary Leoncio Amudio said. Government-brokered talks
aimed at a one-year accord are set to resume today, Amudio said.
The strike may restart on Sept. 27, he said.  “The company has acted in bad faith,” Amudio said
yesterday in a phone interview from the city of Arequipa, 750
kilometers (466 miles) southeast of Lima. “Conciliation has
failed so far, and after this brutality, there’s no way we’ll
accept a long-term agreement.”  Workers in  Peru , Chile, Bolivia and  Indonesia  have walked
off their jobs at copper, gold and zinc mines this year, seeking
better working conditions and a larger percentage of record
profits. Miners at  Cerro Verde  held a 48-hour strike earlier
this month and Freeport’s Grasberg copper and gold mine in
Indonesia began a month-long strike Sept. 15.  Copper and molybdenum concentrates weren’t “materially
affected” by the strike, Freeport spokesman  Eric Kinneberg  said
in an e-mailed response to questions. The company will continue
negotiating a new labor contract, he said.  ‘Workers Cheated’  Cerro Verde, which is studying a $3.5 billion expansion to
increase annual copper output by 45 percent, produced 312,336
metric tons last year. Grasberg, where some miners returned to
work yesterday, produced 553,000 tons in 2010.  Copper for December delivery fell as much as 13.75 cents,
or 3.5 percent, to $3.794 a pound on the Comex in  New York , the
lowest price for a most active contract since Dec. 1, and was at
$3.817 a pound at 9:02 a.m. New York time. On the London Metal
Exchange, copper fell 3.3 percent to $8,413.25 a metric ton.  Freeport, not the government, must solve its labor issues,
Peru’s Energy & Mines Minister Carlos Herrera said Sept. 16.  Freeport risks having prolonged strikes by not engaging
more actively in negotiations, said Juan Muniz, a mining
consultant and former operations manager at Cerro Verde. The
company has sent a lawyer with a written proposal to the
government-brokered talks, the union says.  “The workers feel like they’re being cheated out of money
that was already promised,” Muniz said in a Sept. 16 interview.
“Cerro Verde should take a more hands-on, human approach and
actually sit down and negotiate.”  Freeport fell 95 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $41.59 on Sept.
16 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Cerro Verde
dropped 2.4 percent to $39.05 in  Lima .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 