-- 
Geithner Predicts Europe Will Follow Lessons of U.S. Crisis

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-19T22:49:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/geithner-europe-will-follow-lessons-of-u-s-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted that Europe will adopt some of the same
measures the U.S. took to battle the financial crisis that
started in 2008.  “I think you’re going to see them draw on the lessons of
our crisis, draw on the lessons of things that worked here in
the United States,” Geithner said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today in  Washington . “I think you’ll see that
reflected in some of the choices they make.”  In the aftermath of the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., the U.S. adopted the $700 billion
Troubled Asset Relief Program and the  Federal Reserve  conducted
stress tests of the 19 largest financial institutions to ensure
their capital was adequate to withstand a more severe economic
downturn. The Fed also set up the Term Asset-Backed Securities
Loan Facility, or TALF, to keep  consumer credit  flowing.  Geithner visited Poland last week to meet with European
officials, who rebuffed his suggestions for fixing their debt
crisis. The Treasury secretary urged European leaders to set
aside their differences to excise “catastrophic risks” from
the markets.  “The Europeans are under a lot of pressure still,”
Geithner said today. “They’re going through a really
tremendously difficult job of trying to build a stronger union,
stronger economic union with a very strong financial firewall to
help those countries that are undertaking reforms.”  Europeans “have a lot of work to do,” Geithner said.
“They recognize that more than anybody.”  Stocks Slide  Stocks in Europe slid today, halting a four-day rally for
the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, as investors speculated that  Greece 
may not receive an aid payment that would help it avoid default.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government will
hold another call with its main creditors tomorrow. Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos held “substantive” discussions
with officials from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  about securing a sixth installment of rescue
funds, the Athens-based finance ministry said in an e-mailed
statement. A second call will be held tomorrow evening.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  