-- 
Genting, Jasa, KLCC, Sapura Resources: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-09-19T00:29:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/genting-jasa-klcc-sapura-resources-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 0.5 percent
to 1,430.93 on Sept. 15. The market was shut for a holiday on
Sept. 16.  Genting Malaysia Bhd. (GENM)  : The casino-operator plans
to invest $3 billion to develop a bayfront resort on land
currently housing the Miami Herald Media Co.’s headquarters. The
project, known as Resorts World Miami, will include hotels,
residential towers and a 3.6 acre rooftop lagoon, on land it
agreed to buy from Miami Herald publisher McClatchy Co. in May,
the company said in a statement. A casino will be included if
Florida’s legislature and governor approve, Genting Malaysia
said. The stock gained 0.9 percent to 3.36 ringgit.        Jasa Kita Bhd. (JKB)  : The manufacturer of electric
motors, power tools and engineering equipment said a fire
destroyed its warehouse. Jasa Kita is assessing damage to its
customers’ goods, machinery and office equipment, it said in a
statement. The stock rose 3.9 percent to 13.5 sen.  KLCC Property Holdings Bhd. (KLCC)  : The Malaysian
property developer said its Midciti Resources unit plans to
raise as much as 880 million ringgit through an Islamic bond
sale. Proceeds will be used to replace existing debt and for
working capital, it said in a stock exchange filing. KLCC was
unchanged at 3.13 ringgit.        Sapura Resources Bhd. (SRB)  : The automotive, education
and property investment group said profit in the second quarter
more than tripled from a year earlier to 7.14 million ringgit,
according to a company statement. The stock rose 0.6 percent to
82 sen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  