-- 
Gilead’s Experimental AIDS Drug Outperforms Rival, Study Shows

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-09-19T21:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/gilead-s-experimental-aids-drug-outperforms-rival-study-shows.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s experimental
AIDS treatment was more effective than an existing combination
of medicines, a company-sponsored study showed.  Gilead said 90 percent of the patients taking its four-drug
cocktail, called Quad, responded positively to the treatment
compared with 87 percent taking a combination of approved
therapies, the  Foster City , California-based company said today
in a statement. The drug is in the final stage of clinical
trials generally required for regulatory approval.  “The 90 percent response rate observed on the Quad arm in
this study is an unprecedented result,” Norbert Bischofberger,
Gilead’s chief scientific officer, said in a statement. “We are
now working toward filing for U.S. regulatory approval of the
Quad by the end of the year.”  The pill’s development is a way for Gilead, the world’s
biggest AIDS-drug maker, to expand revenue and offer patients a
medicine with fewer side effects that’s more convenient than
current treatments, the company has said. Gilead generated $6.3
billion from HIV drugs in 2010, capturing more than 40 percent
of the market.  Atripla, a three-drug combination pill approved in 2006, is
the most widely used AIDS medicine. The therapy mixes Gilead’s
two-drug medicine Truvada, approved in 2004, with  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s pill Sustiva. Quad contains four Gilead compounds
in a single pill that patients take once a day.  ‘Key Growth Driver’  “Quad is a key growth driver for converting patients from
Atripla,” and rival medicines, said  Michael Yee , director of
biotechnology equity research with  RBC Capital Markets  in  San
Francisco .  Gilead declined 36 cents to $40.05 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading before the statement
was released.  The therapy was tested on patients with HIV, the virus that
causes AIDS who aren’t taking other medications. The treatment
met its primary objective last month, when the medicine proved
to be at least as effective as Atripla. In both cases, the
results didn’t show the medicine was statistically superior.  “Overall, it’s positive, but they won’t be able to make
the claims that we thought they might have had a chance to
make,” said  Geoffrey Porges , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. in an interview. “There will be some initial
disappointment around that.”  Worldwide Infections  The number of people with HIV continues to grow. Each year,
56,000 Americans are infected with the virus, particularly gay
men and minorities, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. There were 2.6 million new infections
globally in 2009, with more than 33 million people living with
the virus, according to UNAIDS.  Brad Hare, the medical  director  of the University of
 California , San Francisco, Positive Health Program, said about
30 percent of HIV/AIDS patients suffer side effects from
Atripla, can’t take the therapy because it causes  birth defects ,
or have grown resistant to it. Quad would offer another option
for those patients, he said in an interview.  “With those three things -- side effects, birth defects,
and transmitted resistance, there’s a good chunk of people who
wouldn’t be able to take Atripla,” Hare said. The quad pill, if
approved, “gives us the flexibility and options to choose among
multiple convenient regimens to individualize a patient’s
treatment to their particular situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 