-- 
Ginger McCain, Trainer of 3-Time Grand National Champ Red Rum, Dies at 80

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-09-19T10:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/ginger-mccain-trainer-of-3-time-grand-national-champ-red-rum-dies-at-80.html
Donald “Ginger” McCain , trainer
of triple Grand National winner  Red Rum , died today at the age
of 80, his family said.  McCain “passed away peacefully in his sleep after a short
illness this morning,” his wife Beryl McCain said in an e-
mailed statement.  He was known as “Mr. Aintree” for his record at the
racecourse in northwest  England  where the  Grand National 
steeplechase is held annually. He would have been 81 in two
days’ time.  Under McCain’s guidance, Red Rum won the Grand National in
1973, 1974 and 1977 and came second in the two intervening
years. The 4 1/2-mile (7.3-kilometer) race over fences is one of
the biggest betting races in the U.K. horseracing calendar.  McCain was born in Southport, Lancashire, and started out
as a used-car salesman.  Red Rum was trained on the beaches of McCain’s hometown,
where the sea water may have helped the bay gelding overcome a
bone disease in his foot. After dying of cancer aged 30 in 1995,
Red Rum was buried by the Aintree winning post.  After McCain won his fourth Grand National with Amberleigh
House in 2004, he walked to Red Rum’s grave and said he’d spoken
to the horse. Red Rum “said, ‘Let him win it twice more and he
might be nearly as good as me,’” McCain later told the British
Broadcasting Corp. McCain’s son,  Donald Jr ., took over from his
father in 2006, and won this year’s Grand National as the
trainer of Ballabriggs.  There will be a private family funeral for McCain, who had
two children, followed by a memorial service later.  “Joanne, Donald Jr. and I appreciate all the kindness we
are being shown and, at this difficult time, would appreciate it
if we were afforded some privacy,” his wife said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk  at  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  