-- 
Global Hunter Hires Four Ex-Ticonderoga Bankers for Credit Trading Push

-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 
2011-09-19T16:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/global-hunter-hires-ex-ticonderoga-bankers-for-debt-trading-push.html
Global Hunter Securities LLC,
founded in 2005 by Jefferies Group Inc.’s Daniel Conwill, hired
four ex-Ticonderoga Securities LLC bankers for its bond
business.  Martin Teevan, Zachary Knight, James Rescigno and
Christopher Lyche joined the investment bank’s New York-based
sales and trading team, Matthew Gourlay, Global Hunter’s co-head
of sales and trading, said today in a telephone interview.
Teevan was hired as head of trading. All four report to Gourlay
and Jonathan Blatt.  Global Hunter is expanding its junk-bond business even as
so-called boutique firms such as Ticonderoga, Citadel LLC and
Aladdin Capital Holdings have been squeezed out of the market of
trading the debt by Wall Street’s biggest banks. About $3.6
billion of the high-yield, high-risk debt traded on average so
far this month, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. That’s
down from $4.9 billion in the same period in 2010.  “Everyone talks about the dissolution of Bear Stearns and
 Lehman Brothers , and Jefferies’ ascent into the bulge bracket
category, which has left a huge vacuum in the middle market,”
Gourlay said. In the past 12 months, Global Hunter has led seven
high-yield bond deals and nine more are in its pipeline,
according to Gourlay.  The New Orleans-based firm targets middle-market
transactions, which are typically less than $500 million, and
has completed 25 deals with a total value of $3.1 billion during
the first half of this year, according to its  website .  High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  