-- 
GM Holding Line on Labor Cost Fails to Sway Investors After 31% Stock Drop

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l ,   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-09-19T20:08:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/gm-holding-line-on-labor-cost-fails-to-sway-investors-after-31-stock-drop.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  kept labor costs
in check in a new pact with the United Auto Workers, a deal that
may fail to sway investors even as it protects profit.  GM held the union to a $5,000 bonus per person for agreeing
to the four-year contract, less than the $8,000 to $10,000
sought, according to two people familiar with the agreement,
which is being kept private as the union presents details to
members for a vote. GM will increase entry-level pay by $2 to $3
an hour, the people said. The contract ties more pay to GM’s
earnings and makes some wages variable, the union said.  “It does look like they held the line” on labor costs,
said  Brian Johnson , an analyst for  Barclays Capital , who has an
“overweight” rating on GM stock. “For current investors,
that’s a victory because it’s what they expected. To sway the
naysayers, there would have to have been a more substantial
closing of the labor-cost gap.”  GM, which has reported six straight quarterly profits and
regained the title of world’s biggest automaker in the first
half of this year, has been paying its union workers 47 percent
more than  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  pay their U.S.
staff, according to estimates by Barclays and the Center for
Automotive Research. The gap probably isn’t closing much under
the new agreement, Johnson said.  GM rose 44 cents to $23.05 at 4:03 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares are down 30 percent from
the November initial public offering price.  Share Price  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has been unable to
reverse the declining stock price as analysts lower expectations
for U.S. auto sales and consumers’ confidence wanes.  “If we saw more progress with their costs, most notably
their labor, that could convince us to participate,”  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in
 Chicago , said in a phone interview. The $55 billion portfolio he
oversees doesn’t include GM or  Ford Motor Co. (F)   Labor costs “continue to be a problem that puts our
domestic auto manufacturers at a relative disadvantage,” Ablin
said.  “GM since its IPO is really a beleaguered stock, and it
trades cheap,” said Josef Schuster, a Chicago-based  fund
manager  and founder of IPOX Schuster LLC, which invests in
initial public offerings. “To remove this overhang should help.
The conditions seem to be quite fair.”  Cost Offsets  Still unclear is whether the UAW agreed to raise the
percentage of workers earning the entry-level wages, or if
Detroit-based GM won cost offsets elsewhere, Johnson said. Such
savings may not be known until after the contract is ratified,
he said. The automaker expects the union to hold ratification
votes within 10 days, according to a Sept. 17 statement.  The automaker agreed to reopen a former Saturn assembly
plant in Spring Hill,  Tennessee , said the people familiar with
the accord. The UAW signaled earlier this year it was open to
arrangements where the union would surrender lower wages in
exchange for product commitments and new jobs.  Starting pay will increase to about $16 an hour from $14
and rise to about $19 an hour from a previous maximum of $16,
said the people familiar with the agreement, who asked not to be
identified disclosing details before the ratification vote by
members.  The raises may bring GM’s all-in costs for those workers
including benefits to $33 an hour, from $30 before, Johnson
said.  Older Workforce  While below the $38 an hour he estimates rivals Volkswagen
and Hyundai pay their U.S. workers, it may not make much of a
difference because GM still employs more senior workers paid
about twice as much as entry-level workers.  GM’s labor costs, including benefits, average $56 an hour
for its entire U.S. hourly workforce, according to the Center
for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan .  The time frame for GM to transition to lower labor rates is
a “long haul” because of how many senior workers GM still
employs, Johnson said. Fewer than 3 percent of GM’s workers are
paid the entry-level wage.  Investors and analysts look at the issue of labor costs too
narrowly, said  Harley Shaiken , labor professor at the  University
of California  at Berkeley. GM’s success will ultimately be
determined by its cars and trucks, he said.  ‘Competitive Agreement’  “This is a very competitive agreement,” Shaiken said in a
phone interview. “This contract encourages productivity and
quality while keeping fixed costs stable and predictable. The
secret to American competitiveness is the best products and the
strongest innovation. Not the lowest labor costs.”  UAW President  Bob King  had said boosting entry-level pay so
that those workers can live a middle-class lifestyle was his
highest priority. In addition to the raise, GM will pay a record
$5,000 signing bonus if a majority of the 48,500 hourly workers
vote to ratify the accord, the people familiar with the
tentative agreement said. That would cost about $242.5 million.  The signing bonuses may secure votes in favor of the
tentative accord from UAW members that King has estimated each
gave $7,000 to $30,000 in concessions since 2005. The odds of
ratification are high, Himanshu Patel, a New York-based analyst
for JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote today in a research note.  The terms of GM’s new agreement appear less expensive than
investors expected, said Colin Langan, an analyst at UBS
Securities LLC. The deal is unlikely to affect the stock because
labor rates are a small portion of total costs and investors are
more worried about a potential downturn in the global economy
that would hurt auto sales, he said.  No ‘Game Changer’  “It doesn’t seem like the contract is a game changer,”
Langan said in phone interview. “The terms don’t seem too
surprising. From an investor standpoint, they will be much more
focused on the situation in  Europe  and the economy.”  GM’s profit-sharing plan becomes more generous and
transparent, the UAW said in a Sept. 16  statement . The company
will give workers a schedule that bases bonuses on GM’s profit
in  North America , people familiar with the agreement said. The
plan requires a minimum profit to produce a payout and includes
caps on such distributions, they said.  GM must make at least $1 billion in North America to pay a
UAW bonus, one of the people said. Last year, members would have
received about $5,000 on average instead of $4,300, the person
said. The profit-sharing checks would roughly equal $1,000 per
$1 billion in North American profit, one of the people said.  Unchanged Breakeven  While the profit sharing may “modestly” reduce the
earnings contribution GM gets from auto-sales gains, its break-
even point is “largely unchanged,” JPMorgan’s Patel said.  “This agreement should not have a material impact on GM’s
UAW labor cost structure, preserving the leverage that we see to
an eventual demand recovery,”  Rod Lache , an analyst for
Deutsche Bank AG in  New York , said today in a research note.  The UAW typically uses its first accord with GM, Ford or
Chrysler Group LLC to set a pattern for pay and benefits at the
other two. Union negotiators will seek a deal with Chrysler next
and then go to Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford, three people
familiar with the talks have said.  The UAW’s King and Joe Ashton, vice president of the
union’s GM department, will release details of the tentative
agreement to reporters tomorrow, Shelly Restivo, a union
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Organizing Push  King, 65, has pledged to organize a foreign automaker this
year to expand the UAW’s bargaining power beyond GM, Ford and
Chrysler. He said the union has “recommitted to that goal.”  “As long as unionized workers are being forced to compete
with nonunion workers who in most cases receive lower pay and
benefits -- many in temporary jobs -- there will continue to be
a downward pressure on the wages and benefits of all
autoworkers,” he said in the statement.  Contracts covering 113,000 workers at GM, Ford and Fiat
SpA-controlled Chrysler were set to expire Sept. 14 before being
extended.  UAW members agreed to a no-strike pledge at GM and  Auburn
Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler as part of their U.S.-backed
bankruptcies in 2009. Unsettled disputes at the automakers are
to be decided through binding arbitration. Ford didn’t receive a
U.S. bailout and UAW members there went against the wishes of
union leaders and rejected a strike ban and arbitration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
David Welch in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  