-- 
Gobi Coal Said to Seek Buyers as Stock Rout Hurts IPO Plan

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-09-19T09:49:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/gobi-coal-seeks-buyers-as-stock-rout-hampers-ipo.html
Gobi Coal and Energy Ltd.’s owners
are seeking to sell the Mongolian mining company for as much as
$750 million, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Gobi Coal, whose owners include Beijing-based private-
equity firm  Origo Partners Plc (OPP) , has requested potential buyers
submit initial bids by mid-October, said one of the people, who
asked not to be identified because the sale process is private.
The company is also pursuing the option of an initial public
offering in Toronto, the people said.  Acquisitions in Mongolia have jumped this year as rising
demand for the country’s resources prompted Banpu Pcl and
 Mongolian Mining Corp. (975)  to buy assets there. Ulaanbaatar-based
Gobi Coal may fetch a higher valuation in a takeover than in an
IPO, the people said.  Gobi Coal may be valued at $500 million to $750 million in
an acquisition, according to the people. Origo bought 21 percent
of Gobi Coal in November 2009 in a deal that valued the company
at about $71 million.  Origo said today in its report for the six months to June
30 that it wrote up the value of its Gobi Coal stake to $65.8
million from $52.7 million on Dec. 31. The fund owns 17.6
percent of Gobi Coal, according to the statement.  Mo Munshi, Gobi Coal’s chief executive officer, didn’t
respond to calls to his mobile phone seeking comment on the sale.
Origo Partners Chief Financial Officer Niklas Ponnert declined
to comment.  Goldman Hired  Gobi Coal hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to help it find a
buyer, the people said. Connie Ling, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  “We believe there is the potential for a number of
revaluation and capital market events in the second half of the
year, most notably of Gobi Coal,” Origo said in today’s
statement.  Gobi Coal started looking for acquirers after declining
stock markets made an IPO more difficult, the people said. The
global value of first-time share sales has slumped to $25
billion in the third quarter from $62 billion in the preceding
three months, as the MSCI World Index fell 12 percent since June
30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company may still target a share sale as early as in
the first quarter of 2012 should it fail to get attractive
takeover offers, one of the people said.  Coal Deposits  Gobi Coal supplies clients in western and northeastern
 China  from its two coking and thermal coal deposits in the
south-western Bayanhongor region of Mongolia.  Banpu,  Thailand ’s biggest coal producer, agreed this month
to acquire  Hunnu Coal Ltd. (HUN) , which owns 11 coking and thermal
coal projects in Mongolia, for A$477 million ($493 million),
after buying a $45 million stake in March. Mongolian Mining in
June paid $464.5 million to acquire the Baruun Naran mine in
Mongolia from Kerry Holdings Ltd.  Prices for coking coal, a key steelmaking raw material,
reached records in the second quarter, boosting appetite for
mergers and acquisitions. Banpu has said Mongolia’s coal
industry has great potential because of its closeness to markets
including China.  Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. said last week its advisers contacted
potential investors for some assets, including its 57 percent
stake in coal producer  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ)  in Mongolia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  