-- 
Gold Prices May Top $2,000 This Year on ‘Confidence Crisis’

-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 
2011-09-20T13:15:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/gold-prices-to-top-2-000-this-year-on-confidence-crisis-survey-shows.html
Gold will probably top $2,000 an
ounce by year-end amid surging investor demand, a Bloomberg
survey showed.  Prices will rise to a peak of $2,038 before Dec. 31, based
on the average of 16 respondents in a Bloomberg survey at the
 London  Bullion Market Association’s annual conference in
Montreal. Next year, gold will rally as high as $2,268,
according to the average in the survey.  Gold has surged 25 percent this year, touching a record
$1,923.70 in  New York  on Sept. 6. The metal climbed as
escalating debt woes in  Europe  and the prospect of faltering
U.S. growth boosted demand. Today, gold futures for December
delivery advanced $4.80, or 0.3 percent, to $1,783.70 at 9:13
a.m. on the Comex in New York.  “This is largely a crisis of confidence, and gold is a
safe haven,” Rujan Panjwani, the president of Edelweiss
Financial Services Ltd., said in an interview at the conference.
“I see little chance of gold falling.”  Gold is in the 11th year of a  bull market , the longest
winning streak since at least 1920 in London, as investors seek
to diversify away from equities and some currencies. Holdings in
exchange-traded funds backed by the metal have jumped 31 percent
in the past two years, reaching a record 2,260.5 metric tons on
Aug. 8.  The  Federal Reserve  has kept U.S. borrowing costs at a
record low near zero percent and conducted two rounds of asset
purchases, or so-called quantitative easing, in a bid to boost
growth. Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government will
hold another call with its main creditors after a “productive”
round of talks aimed at staving off default.  ‘Bullish Environment’  “We’re going to continue to be in a bullish gold price
environment for the next five to seven years,” Richard O’Brien,
the chief executive officer of Newmont Mining Corp., said in an
interview at the 2011 Denver Gold Forum in  Colorado Springs .
“It’s going to take that long for people to get their fiscal
house in order.”  Gold prices may have already peaked this year, and won’t
climb higher than $2,000 in 2012, according to Dipankar Basu, a
manager and dealer at the  State Bank  of  India .  “If we see signs that the U.S. and European economies are
improving, we will see a sharp correction, and we could see that
within maybe six months,” Basu said in an interview in
Montreal.  Prices may rally through June before dropping, according to
Gerhard Max Schubert, the head of precious metals, consumer
banking and  wealth management  at Emirates NBD.  Exit Strategy  “People should look for an exit strategy in the second
half of next year,” Schubert said in an interview in  Montreal .
“Nothing is going to happen in U.S. policy until the
presidential election, and it gives a year to sort things out in
Europe and come up with a credible solution.”  Rising consumption in India and  China , the world’s top gold
buyers, will continue to support prices, and the next 10 to 20
years will be “defined” by increased purchases in Asia, Pierre Lassonde, the chairman of Franco-Nevada Corp., said during a
presentation at the Montreal conference.  “There’s very broad-based global demand,” Mark O’Byrne,
the executive director of GoldCore Ltd., a brokerage, said in an
interview in Montreal. “The monetary, geopolitical,
macroeconomic and systemic risks are driving it, and until those
risks are reduced somewhat, the outlook is fairly sound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in Washington at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  