-- 
Goodrich Stock Surges to 30-Year High on United Technologies Marger Talks

-- B y   J a m e s   L a n g f o r d   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-09-19T21:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/goodrich-touches-30-year-high-amid-united-technologies-talks-1-.html
Goodrich Corp. (GR) , the aerospace-
equipment maker said to be in talks for a takeover by  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) , climbed to the highest in more than 30 years
as analysts praised the potential tie-up.  Goodrich surged $14.71, or 16 percent, to $107.60 at 4:03
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the highest
since at least July 1980.  A deal with Hartford, Connecticut-based United Technologies
may be announced as soon as this week, said one of three people
familiar with the matter who confirmed the talks yet weren’t
authorized to speak publicly. Negotiations are continuing, the
people said, cautioning that a deal may not be reached.  “Many of the Goodrich businesses are a good fit for United
Technologies and would serve to meaningfully expand the
company’s aero footprint,” Carter Copeland, an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in New York, wrote today in a research note.  United Technologies is seeking to raise financing, the
people said. An acquisition of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Goodrich may be valued at more than $17 billion, including $1.9
billion of net debt, based on previous deals in the U.S.
aerospace and defense industry. That’s about $122 a share.  Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  signaled his
interest in acquisitions in March when he named William Brown as
senior vice president of corporate strategy. Brown completed
more than 40 purchases as head of UTC Fire & Security.  Landing Gear  United Technologies’ aviation businesses include Hamilton
Sundstrand aerospace electric systems, helicopter maker Sikorsky
Aircraft and  Pratt & Whitney , a producer of  jet engines .
Goodrich is the world’s biggest manufacturer of landing gear,
and its products include nacelles, the casings that house jet
engines, and de-icing systems used on planes.  Copeland said he would expect Goodrich to be combined with
Hamilton Sundstrand if it’s not kept as a stand-alone unit in
any takeover.  “An acquisition of Goodrich now would take the percentage
of aerospace from 45% to 52% of revenues, which would keep
United Technologies fairly balanced between the aerospace and
commercial business,” Doug Harned, an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein, wrote today. “We see further exposure to the
commercial aircraft market as positive at this time.”  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS, two of Goodrich’s biggest
customers, are both boosting production to record levels as
carriers demand newer, more fuel-efficient planes.  Industry Takeovers  “Even if a deal is not forthcoming in the immediate
future, the shares are unlikely to give up much of their recent
gains,”  Howard Rubel , a New York-based analyst with Jefferies &
Co., wrote in a note to clients. “The reality is there are very
few major new aircraft platforms for the next several years; the
best way to be on what is new is to go with Goodrich.”  Takeovers in the sector greater than $500 million in the
last five years have fetched a median of 12.3 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goodrich reported Ebitda of $1.4
billion in the past 12 months.  An enterprise value of about 9.5 times Ebitda and a price-
to-earnings ratio of about 16.6 times would be a fair price,
Morgan Stanley analyst Heidi Wood wrote today.  Goodrich would be the largest acquisition attempted by
United Technologies since 2000, when it sought to buy  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) , only to be outbid by General Electric Co.
That $45 billion deal was later rebuffed by the European Union.  Large Purchase  Chenevert, 54, hasn’t made a large aerospace purchase since
becoming CEO in 2008, after running Pratt & Whitney. Adding
commercial aerospace revenue would be a boost after the engine
unit’s geared turbofan model failed to win placement on Boeing
Co.’s upgraded 737, the world’s most widely flown jetliner.  United Technologies rose 5 cents to $75.55 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, amid declines in the broader
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  John Moran, a spokesman for United Technologies, declined
to comment. Goodrich’s Andrew Martin and Lisa Bottle didn’t
respond to voice-mail and e-mail requests for comment.  “Goodrich is very well positioned for both the near and
long term and would make an ideal acquisition target for any
company looking to expand its commercial aerospace and -- to a
lesser extent -- high-quality defense exposure,” wrote Patrick
McCarthy, an analyst with FBR Capital Markets. He added that
Goodrich is worth $110 a share on a 12-month basis and $118 a
share on a 24-month basis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Langford in  New York  at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at   sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  