-- 
Dallas Stars NHL Franchise May Get Bid From Chuck Greenberg, Lawyer Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-19T17:31:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/greenberg-may-be-second-bidder-for-dallas-stars-hockey-team-lawyer-says.html
Chuck Greenberg , former chief
executive officer and co-owner of the  Texas Rangers  baseball
team, may seek to purchase the bankrupt Dallas Stars of the
 National Hockey League , a lawyer said today in court.  Greenberg is part of Texas Hockey Acquisition Co. and may
participate in an auction of the Stars, owned by former
billionaire  Thomas Hicks , said Greenberg’s attorney,  Jeffrey M.
Schlerf , of Fox Rothschild LLP.  “They are definitely interested in bidding,” Schlerf said
in an interview after the Stars hearing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in Wilmington, Delaware.  The Stars filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15 with a plan pre-
approved by its lenders to sell the team at an auction with a
so-called stalking horse bid from Vancouver-based businessman
Tom Gaglardi.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Peter Walsh agreed to speed up the
usual process for approving an auction. Walsh agreed to let the
team return to court Sept. 22 to seek approval for the rules.  Greenberg and hall-of-fame pitcher  Nolan Ryan  led the group
that bought the Texas Rangers at a bankruptcy auction last year
for about $593 million.  Greenberg announced in March that he was stepping down as
Rangers CEO and selling his stake back to the team because of
differences with Ryan.  Bidder’s Offer  Gaglardi agreed to be the lead bidder with an offer that
includes about $50 million in cash and $100 million in new debt
promised to senior lenders.  Several parties signed confidentiality agreements with the
team to get financial information they need to bid, Stars
attorney Martin Sosland of Weil, Gotschal & Manges LLP said in
an interview.  Hicks, who fell off the  Forbes list  of billionaires in
2010, sold his stake in the Liverpool Football Club in the U.K.
and last year put the Rangers into bankruptcy where it was sold
at a court-supervised auction. Hicks invested cash and loans
worth about $150 million in the team.  Gaglardi and his family own Sandman Hotels, Inns & Suites;
Denny’s Restaurants; and the Kamloops Blazers Hockey Team.  The case is  Dallas Stars  LP, 11-12935, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 