-- 
Papandreou Pushes for Accelerated Cuts to Ensure Next Month’s Aid Package

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-09-21T07:31:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/greece-aid-talks-to-continue-after-productive-meeting-on-securing-funds.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  convenes his Cabinet to press for accelerating budget
cuts to ensure the next tranche of an international rescue
package is delivered next month to stave off default.  Today’s 11:30 a.m. meeting in Athens follows two days of
telephone consultations between Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos and representatives from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund , which made “good progress,” the
EU said.  The meetings were intended to damp concerns that Greece may
miss deficit-reduction targets required to receive rescue loans.
The EU statement said a “full mission” will return to Athens
next week after Venizelos’s talks in coming days at the IMF
annual meeting in  Washington .  Staying in the euro area is an “irreversible and
fundamental national choice,” Venizelos said in a statement
yesterday. “We acknowledge that our fiscal data and economic
structures are a problem for the euro area, which we are
determined to tackle once and for all.”  The EU comments suggest the next payment for  Greece  is
likely to be released next month as Papandreou counters investor
doubts that he can avoid default. As Greek unions today consider
holding a 24-hour strike on Oct. 5 against austerity, European
leaders are squabbling over the terms of a July 21 agreement for
a second Greek rescue and the prospect that they will be forced
to channel more money to keep Greece in the currency union.  Greek subway, tram, train, bus and trolley workers will
hold a 24-hour strike in Athens tomorrow to oppose government
plans to reduce the public sector, according to a spokeswoman at
the Greek Transit Workers Union press office.  ‘Very Difficult’  Greek Foreign Minister Stavros Lambrinidis indicated
yesterday in a speech in  New York  that new sources of revenue
are needed because deficit cutting in economies such as Greece
impair their growth. “It’s very difficult to close that gap if
you don’t have enough earnings,” he said at the Foreign Policy
Association’s 2011 World Leadership Forum dinner in New York.  European countries and the U.S. should consider taxing
financial markets, which made “major miscalculations” that
contributed to the global financial crisis in 2008, Lambrinidis
said.  Greek bonds fell today on concern the country would fail to
qualify for the payment, the latest from a 110 billion-euro
($151 billion) bailout agreed upon last year. The yield on the
two-year notes rose 186 basis points to 66.04 percent at 10:10
a.m. in  Athens .  While Greece says it has enough cash to cover its needs for
October, any disbursement of new funds would likely only see it
through to the end of the year.  Talks Resuming  Talks on the Greek aid payments resumed after IMF and EU
monitors earlier this month suspended the review for a sixth
tranche of loans following the discovery of an unexpected hole
in the budget.  The austerity measures demanded in return for the emergency
loans are deepening a three-year recession, making it harder for
the government to meet the deficit goals laid out in its aid
package. The IMF’s representative in Athens said Sept. 19 the
economy will shrink 5.5 percent this year and another 2.5
percent next year, before growth resumes in 2013.  Preliminary numbers showed the deficit widened 22 percent
to 18.9 billion euros, more than the target of 18.1 billion
euros for the period. Greece pledged to reduce its deficit to
about 7.5 percent of gross domestic product this year from 10.5
percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  