-- 
Grieg May Breach Loan Covenants Amid Salmon Glut

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-09-19T11:58:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/grieg-may-breach-loan-covenants-amid-salmon-glut-correct-.html
(Corrects first paragraph of story published Sept. 16 to
show decline is for price estimates.)  Grieg Seafood ASA (GSF) , a Norwegian
salmon farmer, may breach its loan covenants as salmon prices
are likely to fall,  ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA (ASC)  said. The
bank cut its estimates by 14 percent for the fourth quarter of
this year and 7 percent for 2012.  Salmon prices will reach 24 kroner ($4.29) a kilogram by
year-end and 25.8 kroner in 2012 amid supply growth, a level
that would lead to Grieg breaching a covenant on the ratio of
net-interest bearing debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the Oslo-based investment bank
said in a report today. The price of fresh salmon in  Norway  was
27.47 kroner in the week ending Sept. 2, according to  data 
compiled by  Statistics Norway .  “We are not in breach for the moment,” Grieg Chief
Financial Officer Atle Harald Sandtorv said over the phone from
Bergen. “We are working to establish new covenants, which will
fit the new price situation better,” he said. Grieg is working
with “several” banks to negotiate debt covenants which are
linked to equity rather than Ebitda, the executive said.  Grieg will likely breach its debt covenants during 2012 in
ABG’s base case scenario, Dag Sletmo, an analyst at ABG, said in
the e-mailed note today. As the fish farmer doesn’t disclose the
details of its covenants, ABG has based its estimates on the
debt agreements of its competitors.  ‘Wall of Supply’  “We continue to see downside as the market will be
massively oversupplied for the next 18 months,” he wrote.
“Such a wall of supply has not been seen since 2000-2001, and
will put pressure on salmon prices.” The third quarter this
year and the following four “will see double-digit supply
growth year-on-year,” Sletmo said.  Chile’s return to the market after an infectious virus
outbreak in 2009 will drive growth initially, Sletmo wrote,
while Norway will add supplies in the second half of 2012 due to
the high smolt release so far this year. The oversupply will see
weaker-than-expected earnings for Oslo-listed fish farmers, said
Sletmo, who has cut his earnings-per-share estimate for 2012 by
34 percent. Smolts are young salmon.  Most farming companies will have problems with their
existing covenants if today’s prices persist for “more than a
year,” said Grieg’s Sandtorv. Prices would need to remain below
27 kroner for more than three quarters before Grieg breached its
current limits, he said.  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) , the world’s largest salmon farmer,
“will go clear, but with just a tiny margin of error,” Sletmo
said. “If the salmon price drops 1 kroner per kilogram below
our estimate, Marine Harvest will also be in breach of its debt
covenant in 2012.” ABG has a “sell” rating on both companies.  Marine Harvest declined to comment on covenants or future
prices. “However, we comment on our contract portfolio, which
is quite strong for the second half of 2011,” spokesman Joergen
Christiansen said by e-mail today.  Both Grieg Seafood and Marine Harvest have limitations on
their lending facilities based on the ratio of net-interest
bearing debt to Ebitda, according to their second-quarter and
annual reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  