-- 
Gundlach, Samsung, Apple, Google: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-19T11:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/gundlach-samsung-ebay-apple-google-intellectual-property.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , who was fired
from TCW Group Inc. and started his own firm, won a $66.7
million jury award against his former employer for unpaid wages.  Gundlach, who has to share the money with three of his
colleagues, was also found Sept. 16 to have breached his
fiduciary duty to TCW and misappropriated its trade secrets. The
Los Angeles jury awarded the company no damages on the breach
claim. A judge will determine damages on the trade-secret claim.  Susan Estrich, a lawyer for TCW, said the company will ask
the judge to award it $89 million on the trade-secret claim. The
company also won a claim for intentional interference with
contractual relations. The jury awarded no damages.  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, in January 2010, after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined DoubleLine Capital LP, the
asset-management firm Gundlach started within weeks after TCW
fired him. TCW sought as much as $566 million in damages.  Brad Brian, a lawyer for DoubleLine, said it could be
months before the judge rules on the “reasonable royalty” for
TCW’s trade-secret claim.  The jury found that Gundlach and DoubleLine didn’t act
willfully and maliciously in misappropriating trade secrets.  Michael Cahill, TCW’s general counsel, said in an e-mailed
statement that the verdict “speaks directly to the principles
at the heart of this case -- integrity, honesty and trust. The
jury found that each of the defendants violated these
principles.”  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and was named
Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
sought about $500 million.  The jury heard more than six weeks of testimony as the two
sides provided conflicting views of Gundlach’s falling out with
TCW Chief Executive Officer  Marc Stern  in 2009, which ended with
Stern’s buying Metropolitan West Asset Management LLC to run
TCW’s fixed-income group and firing Gundlach in December 2009.  Stern testified that he became suspicious of Gundlach after
a series of September 2009 meetings and instructed TCW’s in-
house lawyer to start monitoring the e-mail of Gundlach and
others in his group. The investigation showed Gundlach’s people
were downloading TCW’s proprietary information and looking for
office space, Stern said.  Gundlach denied that DoubleLine used any of TCW’s
proprietary software systems and data.  DoubleLine’s lawyers argued that Stern started looking to
replace Gundlach as early as June 2009, about the time Stern
returned to active management. Gundlach and other senior
managers at TCW had opposed Stern’s return out of retirement and
wanted the firm to be run by a management committee instead.  Gundlach had negotiated for him and his group to receive 60
percent of the performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
he set up in 2007 and 2008.  As the funds performed better than expected, Paris-based
Societe Generale and TCW wanted to replace Gundlach with a less
expensive asset manager, DoubleLine’s lawyers said.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
 California  Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  Craigslist May Have ‘Lobbied’ for EBay Subpoena, Lawyer Says  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s lawyer said Craigslist Inc. may have
“lobbied” for a criminal subpoena issued in a federal probe
into allegations the online auctioneer stole confidential
information from Craigslist.  The criminal subpoena issued earlier this month and served
on EBay means the exchange of documents and information in
Craigslist’s lawsuit against EBay should be put on hold, EBay
lawyer Mark Lambert said at a hearing Sept. 15 in state court in
 San Francisco .  The online classified company claims in the lawsuit that
San Jose, California-based EBay used proprietary information
from Craigslist to start a competing online ad site when the two
companies were negotiating over EBay buying a stake in
Craigslist. After winning two rulings that the case can proceed,
Craigslist is seeking to move ahead with discovery, where the
two sides exchange documents and interview witnesses.  “We believe they lobbied for” the subpoena and put it in
newspapers, Lambert said at the hearing.  “This is something that they took to the authorities, it’s
of their making,” Lambert told Superior Court Judge Richard
Kramer, who is presiding over the civil case.  The Sept. 7 grand jury subpoena to Craigslist seeks
information pertaining to “incidents where EBay employees
engaged in alleged criminal activities and misconduct focused
around the misappropriation of proprietary/confidential
information from Craigslist.”  It lists a February 2005 incident in which EBay founder
Pierre Omidyar allegedly requested information from EBay and
instructed employees to use Craigslist metrics to compare its
growth rates with those of EBay’s competing website called
Kijiji.  Michael Clyde, an attorney for Craigslist, told Kramer that
the criminal subpoena should have no impact on the civil case.  The subpoena “will not cause complete cessation of
anything,” Kramer said. The judge scheduled the next hearing in
the case for Oct. 18.  EBay said Sept. 13 that the company is cooperating with the
U.S. Justice Department investigation.  “We will cooperate with any inquiry related to the
disputes between EBay and Craigslist,” Amanda Miller, an EBay
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The civil case is Craigslist v. EBay, 475276, Superior
Court of California (San Francisco).  Patents  Samsung Claims Apple IPad, IPhone Infringe Australian Patents  Samsung Electronics Co. accused  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  of patent
infringement in  Australia , adding to multiple lawsuits across at
least four continents involving the two companies’ dispute over
smartphone technology.  The cross claim filed with the Federal Court of Australia
alleges Apple’s iPhone and iPad infringe seven patents related
to wireless communications standards, Samsung said in an e-mail
Sept. 16. It also seeks to invalidate and revoke Apple patents
that have been asserted against Samsung’s Galaxy phones and
tablets.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, and Samsung have
been embroiled in a global battle over market share for both
phones and tablet computers. Apple has accused Samsung of
“slavishly” copying the iPad and iPhone and has had success in
curtailing Galaxy sales in Australia and  Germany . There are also
lawsuits in the U.S. and  Asia .  “Samsung has a proud history of innovation in the mobile
industry,” the Suwon, South Korea-based company said. “It has
invested continuously in R&D, design and technology to produce
our innovative and cutting-edge mobile devices.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Gets Seizure of Fakes, Name Change of ‘Apple Story’ Shop  Apple Inc., maker of the iPhone and iPad, succeeded in
getting operators of two stores in Flushing  New York  that sold
fake Apple items to turn the items over to the Cupertino,
California-based company for destruction.  Apple sued the proprietors of the two stores for trademark
infringement in federal court in Brooklyn July 25, after the
company’s representatives visited the stores and bought items
improperly using Apple trademarks.  Even though neither of the stores was an authorized outlet,
one was named “Apple Story,” and, as part of the settlement,
that name may no longer be used.  The two stores will also deliver Apple any promotional
material bearing the California company’s marks without
authorization. In the future, should any products with false
Apple marks come into the store’s possession, they are required
to “promptly segregate, quarantines and maintain any and all
such products and business records,” notify Apple’s counsel and
delivery the items to the company, according to the court filing
signed Sept. 15 by counsel from both sides.  Apple was represented by  Mark N. Mutterperl  and  Todd Ryan
Hambidge  of Houston’s Fulbright & Jaworski LLP.  The case is Apple Inc., v. Apple Story Inc., 1:11-cv-03550-
KAM-MDG, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  Google EU Antitrust Probe Checks Company’s ‘Gate-Keeper’ Role  The European Union antitrust probe into  Google Inc. (GOOG)  focuses
on whether the world’s largest Web search company has a dominant
position that allows it to influence the “behavior of Internet
users.”  “Google is the browser of choice for very many of us; but
dominance is not the same as abuse of dominance,”  Joaquin
Almunia , the EU competition commissioner, said in a speech in
Florence,  Italy , Sept. 16. “Abuse is a conduct that protects or
extends dominance by illegitimate means, and we still have to
conclude whether this is the case for Google.”  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
growing pressure from global antitrust agencies probing whether
the company uses its position in Web searches to thwart
competition. While  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and partner Yahoo! Inc. have
about a quarter of the U.S. search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog post
in March, citing data from regulators.  One aspect of the 27-nation EU probe “is determining
whether Google holds a position of gate keeper and is able to
influence the behavior of Internet users,” Almunia said.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, declined to
comment on Almunia’s speech.  The digital market is becoming part of “sophisticated
strategic interactions” between companies, also in the form
mergers, said Almunia. An “interesting” case in this field for
the commission will be the proposed merger between Microsoft and
Skype Technologies SA.  Microsoft in May agreed to buy Luxembourg-based Skype for
$8.5 billion, to gain the world’s most popular Web-calling
service and help it catch up in online and mobile advertising.
The Brussels-based commission set an Oct. 7 deadline to rule on
the deal.  “The real challenge for us in these markets is separating
the potential for innovation from the potentially excessive
market power a company can acquire,” said Almunia.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Won’t Face Some Oracle Copyright Claims, Judge Rules  Google Inc., the largest Internet search company, won’t
have to face part of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s claim that it infringed
copyrights for the Java programming language.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup in San Francisco ruled
Sept. 16 that some of the material Oracle claimed was infringed
isn’t protected by copyright.  The copyright claim is part of Oracle’s lawsuit against the
search-engine company alleging that the Android operating system
for mobile devices infringes patents that Oracle owns after
acquiring Sun Microsystems Inc.  Oracle accused Google of infringing 12 lines of code and 37
“specifications” for programming interfaces. Alsup said in his
ruling that the names of the specifications that Google copied
aren’t protected by copyright and ruled that the Mountain View,
California-based company must face infringement claims on the
other material.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, seeks billions
of dollars in damages and a court order for the destruction of
all products that violate its copyrights.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  Hotfile Answers Complaint, Claims Warner Bros. Abuses DMCA  Hotfile.com , a Panamanian company that offers its users
“cyberlockers” to store digital content, has responded to a
copyright infringement suit by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros
Entertainment unit by accusing the company of copyright abuse.  Warner, together with the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , and three other
studios, sued Hotfile.com in federal court in Miami in February.
They accused the company of acting as a “commercial online hub
for distributing popular entertainment content without
authorization.” Users of Hotfile pay a monthly fee to download
content, including movies playing in theaters, from the
company’s servers, the studios said in their complaint.  In a Sept. 12 court filing, Hotfile said that before the
suit was filed, it had already complied with the studios’
requests made under the  Digital Millennium Copyright Act  to
remove infringing material. The company said it designed a
special tool that enabled Warner to delete or disable “an
unlimited number of files” that Warner “believes in good faith
infringes its copyrights.”  Instead, Hotfile said, Warner used the tool -- a “Special
Rightholder Account” -- to remove “thousands of files”
without ever viewing them, including some for games and free
software that had no connection to the studio’s content.  Automated search is part of the problem, Hotfile said in
its filing, giving the example of the removal of any file with
“The Box” in its name despite the fact that many of them had
nothing to do with the  Warner movie by that name . Some of the
files removed were actually for an audio book on alternative
cancer treatments titled “Cancer: Out of the Box,” according
to Hotfile.  Warner’s actions resulted in “a large number of wrongful
take-downs,” Hotfile said, accusing the studio of violating the
DMCA. The company asked the court for money damages, and an
order barring removal of any additional files without
verification of their content.  The case is Disney Enterprises Inc. v. Hotfile Corp., 1:11-
cv-20427-KMW, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Miami).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 