-- 
Michigan State Housing Agency Loses Bid to Move Court Fight With Lehman

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-19T19:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/michigan-state-housing-agency-loses-bid-to-move-court-fight-with-lehman.html
The Michigan State Housing
Development Authority failed to persuade a federal district
court to review a bankruptcy judge’s interpretation of swap
contracts in its lawsuit against  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
over derivatives transactions.  U.S. District Judge  John Koeltl  in  Manhattan  declined to
take the case, according to a court filing today.  The Michigan agency said in May that it is “one of many”
derivatives trading partners of Lehman disputing who gets paid
first on a swap agreement as a result of a previous ruling by
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck. The Lehman bankruptcy judge’s
interpretation of swap contracts is “surpassingly broad” and
requires U.S. District Court review because it has ramifications
for international securities markets, the authority said.  The global over-the-counter  derivatives market  is valued at
around $600 trillion by the  Bank for International Settlements .  In a now-settled case involving a  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK)  trustee unit, Peck ruled in Lehman’s favor, saying that a
swap agreement written to protect both parties from default by
the other party doesn’t hold under bankruptcy law. He used a
similar principle in May when he refused to dismiss a Lehman
suit against an entity known as Ballyrock ABS CDO 2007-1 Ltd.,
the Michigan agency said.  Housing Agency’s Work  The authority sells bonds to raise money to help fund home
mortgages and rental housing developments. It struck a swap
agreement with a Lehman unit in 2000 to offset its interest rate
risk as a borrower, it said in a filing. The agreement allowed
either party to end the transaction if the other defaulted, it
said.  After the Lehman unit filed for bankruptcy, the state
agency terminated the agreement by wiring the $36.3 million owed
to the unit. Lehman later made an “improper demand” for
payment of a $2.4 million semi-annual premium from the agency’s
bank and failed to return the money even though it admitted the
transfer was a mistake, according to the filing.  Peck put on hold the housing agency’s lawsuit -- and a
Lehman countersuit -- making it impossible for the agency to
defend itself, it said.  The lawsuit is Michigan State Housing Development Authority
v. Lehman Brothers Derivative Products, 09-01728,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 