-- 
Millennium Jumps on Report BNP, Pekao, PKO Bank Place Bids

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-19T16:39:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/millennium-jumps-on-report-bnp-pekao-pko-bank-place-bids-2-.html
Bank Millennium SA (MIL)  jumped the most
in more than three weeks in Warsaw after a report that  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA of  France  and Poland’s two largest banks are among
bidders for  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) ’s majority stake.  The stock soared 7.9 percent to 4.53 zloty, valuing the
lender at 5.5 billion zloty ($1.72 billion).  State-controlled PKO Bank Polski SA and  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) ,
majority-owned by UniCredit SpA, offered to buy Millennium,
Reuters reported, citing people close to the talks. Miroslaw
Kuk, a spokesman for Pekao in Warsaw, declined to comment when
contacted by phone. Erik Burns, a spokesman for Banco Comercial
in Lisbon, declined to comment on “market speculation.”  Banco Comercial, Portugal’s second-biggest lender by market
value, is exploring the sale as the country’s central bank
presses lenders to bolster capital. The bank said in July that
it would review options for its operations in  Poland  and hired
Nomura Holdings Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to review the
business.  PKO Chief Executive Officer Zbigniew Jagiello declined to
comment on the transaction in an e-mail today. The bank is
looking at Millennium as well as Kredyt Bank SA, which is being
sold by KBC Groep NV, he said on Sept. 7. Jagiello said that
even though PKO is open to participating in market
consolidation, the current market situation doesn’t support
acquisitions.  The sale would be among the biggest in Poland’s financial-
services market after Raiffeisen Bank International AG of
Austria in February agreed to buy EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA’s
Polish business for 490 million euros. Banco Santander SA,
Spain’s biggest bank, this year completed the purchase of the
country’s fifth-biggest lender, Bank Zachodni WBK SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  