-- 
Illinois Man Indicted for Insider Trading, Prosecutors Say

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-19T21:49:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/illinois-man-indicted-for-insider-trading-prosecutors-say.html
A federal grand jury in  San
Francisco  indicted a fourth man in connection with an insider-
trading scheme involving a former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  investment
banker, U.S. prosecutors said.  Bassam Yacoub Salman, 52, of Orland Park,  Illinois , a
Chicago suburb, is charged with conspiracy and  securities fraud 
related to a 2009 case against ex-Citigroup banker Maher Fayez Kara of San Carlos, California, San Francisco U.S. Attorney
Melinda Haag said today in a statement.  Salman made more than $1.1 million in profits, Haag said,
announcing the unsealing today of an indictment obtained by her
office on Sept. 1.  Kara, his brother Mounier, and Emile Jilwan were charged
with 38 counts of securities fraud and conspiracy in April 2009.  They allegedly gained $5.3 million in profits from 2004 to
2007 by illegally trading in the securities of companies
involved in mergers or public offerings, including the drug
companies Schering-Plough Corp., Endo Pharmaceutical Holdings
Inc. and Andrx Corp., according to an indictment unsealed then.  Salman faces five counts arising from his trading in shares
of Andrx, United Surgical Partners Inc. Biosite Inc. and Bone
Care International Inc., acting on information passed from Maher Kara through his brother, Mounier, from 2005 to 2007, according
to the new indictment.  Sept. 9 Arrest  Arrested by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  on Sept. 9,
Salman made his initial appearance today before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Jacqueline Scott Corley in San Francisco today, Haag said.
He was released on a $250,000 bond and ordered to surrender his
passport.  Salman must return to court on Oct. 5, according to Haag.  Each of the four securities-fraud counts he faces is
punishable by as long as 20 years in prison and a $5 million
fine. Attorney information for Salman wasn’t immediately
available.  The case is U.S. v. Salman, 11-cr-625, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco). The case
against the Kara defendants and Jilwan is U.S. v. Kara, 09-cr-
417, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ; and
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  