-- 
India Government Said to Consider Almost Doubling ONGC’s Fuel Subsidy Bill

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 
2011-09-20T12:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/india-said-to-consider-almost-doubling-ongc-s-fuel-subsidy-bill.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp.,  India ’s
biggest energy explorer, may be forced to double the amount it
pays to support fuel sales at below-market prices, two people
with direct knowledge of the matter said. The shares fell.  India’s government is considering increasing ONGC’s
contribution to the fuel subsidy to about 470 billion rupees
rupees ($9.8 billion) as it seeks to reduce state spending and
rein in the fiscal deficit, one of the people said, asking not
to be identified because the details are private. The New Delhi-
based company paid 248.9 billion rupees in the year ended March
31, according to a May 30 stock exchange filing.  ONGC supplies crude at a discount to state-owned refiners
to partly compensate them for selling diesel, kerosene and
cooking gas below cost and its share of subsidy rises when the
cost of oil climbs. The government last week deferred its plan
to sell shares in ONGC, hampering Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee ’s target of cutting the nation’s fiscal deficit to the
lowest in four years.  “Increasing the subsidy payout would mean the share sale
plan will have to be put off, probably for a long time,” Deepak Darisi, a Mumbai-based analyst with a “buy” rating on the
stock at LKP Shares & Securities Ltd., said today by telephone.
“An already ad-hoc subsidy-sharing mechanism is becoming more
random. The shares would be hit.”  ONGC declined 3 percent to 261.50 rupees in Mumbai trading,
the biggest drop since Aug. 30. The benchmark Sensitive Index
gained 2.1 percent. ONGC shares have fallen 19 percent this
year.  Tax Cut   The government last week postponed selling a 5 percent
stake in ONGC, valued at about $2.3 billion, to raise money to
build schools, hospitals and roads. No reason was given for
delaying the offer, which was scheduled to start today.  The government plans to cut its fiscal deficit to 4.6
percent of gross domestic product in the year ending March 31.
 Asia ’s second-fastest growing major economy needs to narrow its
 budget deficit  to help curb inflationary pressures, according to
the central bank.  The selling price for ONGC’s crude produced in India may
fall to about $42 a barrel if the subsidy bill rises to 470
billion rupees, one of the people said. The estimate is based on
current crude  oil prices  and currency rates, the people said.  Finance Ministry spokesman D.S. Malik declined to comment.
ONGC hasn’t received information from the government on subsidy
payments and can’t comment, the company said in an e-mail.  Raised Prices  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government raised prices of
diesel, kerosene and cooking gas and cut taxes on fuels on June
25 as crude oil costs rose. The price increase is estimated to
have narrowed the loss of revenue for state refiners to about
1.2 trillion rupees for the year from 1.71 trillion rupees,
according to a June 24 oil ministry  statement .  The government may consider the 490 billion rupee loss of
revenue from the tax cut as subsidy, one of the people said.  Indian Oil Corp., the country’s biggest refiner, raised
gasoline prices Sept. 16 as losses from selling fuels below cost
increased after the rupee declined to a two-year low against the
dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  