-- 
Ireland Recovers as Greece Sinks in Debt Market Affirming Kenny’s Policies

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-09-19T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/ireland-recovers-as-greece-sinks-in-debt-market-affirming-kenny.html
Labros Chatzis, a plastic surgeon
from Athens, settled in Dublin 11 years ago because he found the
Irish similar to the Greeks. Now it’s their differences that are
keeping him there as his homeland sinks deeper into crisis.  The 55-year-old says he’s more confident about the future
of his adopted nation because Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  is
meeting the demands of an international bailout, while Greek
premier  George Papandreou  is scrambling to raise money as the
economy slumps more than forecast.  “Ireland is on the right track, but I’m very pessimistic
about  Greece ,” said Chatzis, who is also president of the
Hellenic Community of Ireland. “Kenny has a strong mandate and
the power to do what needs to be done. Papandreou is very weak,
nobody listens to him, even his own party oppose him.”  Six months after Kenny, 60, came to power by winning the
most seats in his party’s history, investors as well as voters
are supporting that view. While concern that Greece may default
reignites speculation about the fate of the euro, Irish bonds
delivered the best returns in the world the past three months.  The  International Monetary Fund , which contributed to
Ireland’s 85 billion-euro ($116 billion) rescue package last
November, said Sept. 7 that it’s “very impressed” with Kenny’s
government efforts to implement its austerity program.  “Somehow, through luck or brilliant strategy, or some
combination of both, Ireland has put clear blue water between it
and Greece, primarily by being seen to deliver,” Eoin Fahy,
chief economist at Kleinwort Benson Investors in Dublin, said in
a telephone interview. “I would give the government a minimum
of a B-plus grade.”  Market Reward  Irish bonds with a duration of more than a year returned
17.4 percent in dollar terms since June 17, the most of the 26
government debt markets tracked in indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  The yield on Irish two-year  government bonds  was 9.38
percent yesterday, down from an all-time high of 23.2 percent on
July 18. Greek bonds plummeted, with the two-year yield more
than doubling to a record 76.73 percent in the same period. It
was down to 61.4 percent yesterday.  While the difference in yield between the two widened to a
record 67.3 percentage points on Sept. 13, the unraveling of
Greece threatens Ireland’s ambition of restoring the nation’s
economic sovereignty by 2016, the 100th anniversary of the Irish
uprising against Britain.  Kenny plans to narrow the  budget deficit  to 3 percent of
gross domestic product by 2015 and start persuading investors to
buy bonds again in the public markets as early as next year.  ‘Dangerous Precedent’  “A Greek default could set a dangerous precedent and
revive fears that Irish bonds are a similar risk,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin.  European Union and IMF inspectors spoke with Greek Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos yesterday and will do so again
today to judge whether the country was eligible for an aid
payment due next month. Kevin Cardiff, the Irish Finance
Ministry’s secretary general, told a parliamentary hearing on
Sept. 15 that “a Greek cough is also an Irish cough.”  Kenny inherited an economy that had shrunk three years in a
row after a real-estate boom collapsed in 2008. Unemployment
stood at fifteen-year high of 14.8 percent in November 2010 when
 Europe ’s worst banking crisis forced the state to seek an
international rescue from the EU and IMF. Joblessness was 4.8
percent three years earlier.  Winning more favorable terms on the loans in that bailout
has been Kenny’s biggest success.  Gallic Spat  In July, after what he earlier termed a Gallic spat with
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  over tax rates, Ireland was
given more time to repay the debt and a 2 percentage-point cut
in its  interest rate . The reductions are worth about 1.1 billion
euros a year to Ireland, the  Finance Ministry  said.  What’s more, a line has been drawn under the banking
crisis, after the government pumped another 17 billion euros
into the financial industry.  Billionaire investor  Wilbur Ross , chairman of WL Ross &
Co., was part of a group that in July agreed to take a 34.9
percent stake in Bank of Ireland Plc, the biggest lender.  “Ireland will be the first of the euro countries to
recover because they really bit the bullet,” Ross, said in an
Aug. 30 radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “Once they get through all that, the
fundamental advantages of Ireland are intact.”  Larger Majority  The country is meeting targets set for it by the EU, IMF
and European Central Bank as Kenny’s government pushes austerity
measures through parliament by controlling 113 seats in the 166-
seat legislature. By contrast, Papandreou’s four-seat majority
imperils the implementation of Greece’s bailout package.  Chatzis, the plastic surgeon, said he moved to Ireland in
2000 in part because the Irish were similar to Greeks in that
“they both like to talk and have fun.”  The difference is “in Greece, the black economy thrives,
many people avoid taxes, and you can get one price with a
receipt and once price without,” he said. “Here, there is
respect for the system. People will do what it takes.”  In six separate packages, the Irish have achieved 21
billion euros worth of savings since July 2008 by reducing pay
for public servants, lowering welfare payments and introducing
taxes. About 15 billion euros of the cuts came from initiatives
announced by the previous government, led by Brian Cowen, before
it lost the election in February.  Following Cowen  There’s at least another 3.6 billion euros of cost savings
to come this year, testing Kenny’s popularity, which has soared
even as his Fine Gael-led government has largely followed the
fiscal policies of Cowen’s Fianna Fail administration.  “Kenny is doing a better job than Cowen, but that wouldn’t
be hard,” said Brian Doolan, 66, retired law lecturer. “Look
around, empty shops and shops closed. I remember the 1950s when
it was hopelessness and emigration. I wonder if it hasn’t gone
back to that.”  Kenny has simply stuck with Cowen’s policies, said  Micheal Martin , the former foreign minister and now leader of Fianna
Fail, in a Sept. 12 speech to his parliamentary party.  “The budgetary, banking and public service policies it has
been implementing are overwhelmingly those which its members
condemned and voted against as recently as January,” he said.  Even with the skepticism, Kenny’s satisfaction rating has
climbed 16 percentage points to 53 percent since February,
according to a poll published by the  Irish Times  on July 20.  Goodwill Boost  It’s the best support Kenny has drawn since taking over the
leadership of  Fine Gael  nine years ago and makes him the
nation’s most popular political leader. Before the election, his
public support consistently ranked behind his party, prompting
his deputy to unsuccessfully challenge Kenny in June 2010.  The government “is benefiting from the goodwill which
attaches to any new government,” said Martin, 51. “This is
natural, but it will only last for so long.”  Kenny’s instinct for symbolic gestures play well with
voters. In his first days in office, he took a pay cut and
walked to his office, having scrapped most ministerial cars.
He’s been pictured walking the hills of his native Mayo in the
west of Ireland, and taking part in a 112-mile charity cycle
around the Ring of Kerry.  He’s also drawn plaudits in newspaper editorials for his
attack on the Vatican’s handling of sex abuse allegations. In
the sharpest language an Irish leader has used against the
church, Kenny said in July that the Vatican’s handling of the
scandals has been dominated by “elitism and narcissism.”  ‘Breathtaking’  The speech “was one for which he will always be
remembered,” the  Irish Independent  said on July 21.  New York
Times  columnist Maureen Dowd two days later called Kenny’s
actions “breathtaking.”  On the economic front, Ireland’s GDP will increase this
year for the first time since 2007, the IMF said on Sept. 7. In
Greece, Finance Minister Venizelos expects the country’s economy
to shrink by about 5 percent this year, worse than the June
estimate of 3.8 percent from the EU and IMF, and a deeper
contraction than in the past two years.  Chatzis said a friend in  Athens  who runs his own publishing
company is owed money by a university client and frets that he
may never get paid.  “Greece could be bankrupt by Christmas,” said Chatzis,
adding that his own business is up this year as more people seek
cosmetic surgery. “You don’t spend 5,000 euros on a nose job
unless you’re confident in the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  