-- 
Ireland’s NAMA Hires Christie’s to Sell Seized Warhol Art

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-09-19T11:51:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/ireland-s-nama-hires-christie-s-to-sell-seized-warhol-art-1-.html
Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency hired Christie’s to sell at auction 14 works of art
seized from the private collection of a NAMA debtor.  “This is the first time NAMA has put up for auction art of
a debtor,”  Ray Gordon , a spokesman for the agency, said by
telephone. “It’s not expected to be the last time.”  The collection includes works by  Andy Warhol , William Scott
and Jack Butler Yeats, NAMA said in an e-mailed statement. Three
of the pictures, including Warhol’s “Dollar Sign,” will be put
up for auction in  New York  on Nov. 9 and the remainder will go
on sale in  London  on Nov. 17.  Derek Quinlan, a former taxman who was a high-profile
investor during Ireland’s property boom, owned the pictures, the
Dublin-based broadcaster RTE reported, without saying where it
got the information. Gordon said the debtor is cooperating with
NAMA on the sale, while declining to identify the person.  The collection is likely to sell for about 1.5 million
pounds ($2.4 million), Matthew Paton, the U.K. head of public
relations at Christie’s, said by telephone.  Dublin-based NAMA, set up to purge Irish banks of risky
property loans, donated Sir John Lavery’s “Return from the
Market” to Ireland’s National Art Gallery earlier this year
after the gallery assisted the agency with seized art. NAMA said
in July it paid 30.2 billion euros ($41 billion) for loans with
a face value of 71.2 billion euros after a decade-long real-
estate boom collapsed in 2008.  Real Estate for Sale  The agency is selling real estate and other assets tied to
loans transferred to it from Irish banks. NAMA is looking for
buyers for marshland in Dublin, an airport, pubs in the U.K. and
some of the most expensive land in Ireland, according to a list
published by the agency on July 28.  Warhol’s “Dollar Sign” has an estimated value of $400,000
to $600,000, according to Christie’s, making it the most
expensive picture in the collection to be sold. William Scott’s
“Still Life Variation 2” is valued by the auction house at
200,000 pounds to 300,000 pounds.  Twentieth-century Irish and British art is increasing in
“desirability and value” among collectors, according to Paton.
The collection includes two works by Yeats, the brother of the
poet William Butler Yeats, and two paintings by Louis Le
Brocquy, Ireland’s most famous living artist, he said.  NAMA posted a loss of 1.18 billion euros last year after
impairment charges of 1.49 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  