-- 
Italy’s Rating Cut One Level by S&P as Greek Crisis Fans Contagion Concern

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-09-20T14:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/italy-s-credit-rating-cut-one-level-to-a-by-s-p-as-government-debt-mounts.html
Italy ’s  credit rating  was cut by
 Standard & Poor’s , the country’s first downgrade in five years,
as Greece’s worsening fiscal crisis fans concern that contagion
will engulf countries such as Spain and Italy.  S&P lowered its rating last night to A from A+, with a
negative outlook, saying weak economic growth, a “fragile”
government and rising borrowing costs would make it difficult to
reduce  Europe ’s second-biggest debt. The yield on Italy’s 10-
year bond rose 9 basis points to 5.674 percent, 387 basis points
more than similar German debt. The cost of insuring Italy
against default surged to a record.  The  European Central Bank  was forced to buy Italian and
Spanish bonds last month after their yields surged to euro-era
records on concern they’ll be the next victims of the two-year-
old debt crisis that led to bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal. Moody’s Investors Service is set to decide in the next
month whether to downgrade Italy and Spain, as Greece struggles
to convince international creditors it deserves its next bailout
payment to stave off a default.  “Investors have become more bearish about Italy mainly
because euro-zone leaders failed to create a firewall around the
bloc’s solvent governments,” said Nicholas Spiro, head of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy, a London-based consulting firm. “They let a
crisis in the narrow periphery of the euro zone morph into one
affecting the solvent core” and “we’re now dealing with the
consequences.”  Greek Talks  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
held a second conference call in as many days tonight with Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos, who is trying to convince
them that Greece deserves the sixth payment of its original 110
billion-euro bailout.  Italy follows  Spain , Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus and Greece
as euro-region countries having their credit rating cut this
year. Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  passed a 54 billion-euro
($74 billion) austerity package this month that convinced the
ECB to buy its bonds. The plan to balance the budget in 2013
wasn’t enough to sway S&P, whose rating on Italy remains five
steps above non-investment grade and three below that given by
Moody’s.  Speculation, Reality  “The valuations of Standard & Poor’s seem dictated more by
newspaper speculation than by reality, and appear influenced by
political considerations,” Berlusconi’s office said in an e-
mailed statement, adding that the government will meet its
budget targets as it prepares measures to boost economic growth.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its growth forecast for
Italy next year to less than a quarter what the government
predicts in its plan to balance the budget. The economy will
expand 0.3 percent in 2012, compared with the 1.3 percent
forecast in June, which matches the government’s prediction.  Responding to the government’s statement, S&P said its
rating was based on an independent analysis of Italy’s fiscal
and economic outlook and prospects for reducing a debt burden of
about 120 percent of gross domestic product. “S&P’s sovereign
ratings are apolitical” and indicate “how different political
initiatives may impact financial accountability,” the rating
company said in an e-mailed statement.  Another Cut?  The negative outlook on Italy means there’s a one-in-three
chance that S&P will lower the nation’s rating again within the
next 12 to 18 months,  Moritz Kraemer , S&P’s managing director of
European sovereign ratings, said in a conference call today.  Italy must “reinforce” its vow to balance the budget and
convince the world it’s “serious,”  Sergio Marchionne , chief
executive officer of Fiat SpA, Italy’s biggest manufacturer,
said in an interview in  London  today. “The time for nebulous,
unspecified and non-detailed commitments is gone,” he said,
adding that the austerity question is “crucial.”  Debt of 1.9 trillion euros -- more than Spain, Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  combined -- leaves Italy vulnerable to any
advance in yields as it refinances maturing debt. Italy still
needs to sell more than 50 billion euros of bonds this year,
with the three auctions set for next week starting on Sept. 27.  Spain sold 4.46 billion euros of 12-month and 18-month
bills, just below its maximum target, and its borrowing costs
rose even as the ECB moved to support the nation’s debt.  The ECB purchased more Spanish and Italian bonds today,
according to five people with knowledge of the transactions. The
yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond, which reached a euro-
era high of 6.3 percent on July 18, was little changed after the
auction at 5.36 percent.  Sagging Confidence  The worsening debt crisis is also eroding confidence among
the region’s banks, crimping liquidity and pushing the spread
between secured and unsecured interest rates to the widest since
December 2008. The ECB said on Sept. 15 it will lend dollars to
euro-area banks with the  Federal Reserve  and other central banks
to ensure access to the U.S. currency.  S&P warned that it may cut its rating on Italy’s banks when
it first put the country’s creditworthiness on review in May.
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s largest bank, has lost more than half its
value this year on concern over its holdings of Italian debt.
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, the No. 2 bank, is down 44 percent in 2011.  The Italian decision also comes just weeks after S&P
stripped the U.S. of its AAA rating for the first time. While
the Aug. 5 move roiled global markets, bond investors ignored
S&P’s warnings about U.S. creditworthiness and piled into
Treasuries. The yield on the benchmark U.S. government bond fell
to a record 1.8770 on Sept. 12.  S&P said it lowered its outlook for Italy’s growth to a 0.7
percent annual average for 2011 to 2014, from a prior projection
of 1.3 percent. The slowing economy will make it harder for
Italy to achieve its fiscal targets, the rating company said.  “The high level of public debt leaves Italy on an unstable
equilibrium,” Barclays Capital Research economists including
 Julian Callow  said in an e-mailed note today. The government has
not come up with any “structural reforms” to improve long-term
growth prospects and is unlikely for now “to deliver on this
front.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  