-- 
Italian Budget Cuts Are Negative for Local Governments, Moody’s Says

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-09-19T09:30:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/italy-budget-cuts-negative-for-local-governments-moody-s-says.html
Italy’s plans to eliminate the
 budget deficit  by 2013 may hurt the debt ratings of the nation’s
regional and local governments, Moody’s Investors Service said
in its Weekly Credit Outlook.  “They add imminent pressure to already stretched budgets
and introduce uncertainties on the allocation of powers and
responsibilities to local governments,” Moody’s said.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  won final parliamentary
approval on Sept. 14 for a 54 billion-euro ($74 billion)
austerity package that aims to cut costs and increase taxes in
an attempt to stem Italy’s surging borrowing costs.  More than 1,000 mayors of towns and cities protested in
Milan last month against the package, which includes cuts to
regional and local governments of 4.2 billion euros in 2012 and
3.2 billion euros in 2013.  Italy ’s credit rating remains under review for a possible
downgrade for the first time in almost two decades by Moody’s,
amid concern that economic growth will remain too weak to reduce
the region’s second-largest debt burden, the rating company said
on Sept. 16. Moody’s said it will continue to evaluate Italy’s
Aa2 rating and strive to conclude its review, begun on June 17,
within the next month.  Moody’s has left “the door open for a potential one to two
notch downgrade in the short term,” Fabio Fois, European
economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London , wrote in a note to
investors today. Any risk identified by Moody’s in Italian debt
is unlikely to “dissipate in one month’s time,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 vasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  