-- 
Live Nation to Jointly Market, Manage Artists in Universal Music Venture

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-09-19T19:31:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/live-nation-in-artist-management-pact-with-universal-music.html
Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) 
formed an artist-management joint venture with  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s
 Universal Music Group , the world’s largest record company.  The partnership will be overseen by Live Nation’s Front
Line Management Group Chief Executive Officer Irving Azoff and
will include bundled music products and artist websites with
concert tickets, the companies said today in a statement.  The venture aims to create a broad range of products, 
Azoff, who is also executive chairman of Live Nation, said in
the statement. Live Nation, the largest concert promoter and
ticket-seller, is gaining greater access to Universal Music
Group’s management roster including The Who, Roger Daltrey,
Robert Plant, Mick Fleetwood and ZZ Top. The venture expands the
presence of  Universal Music  artists and gives customers more
flexibility in consuming music, Universal Music CEO Lucian Grainge said in the release.  “This is an unprecedented partnership that unites the
world’s top music artists with the world’s leading artist
management, live entertainment, event ticketing and sponsorship
resources to drive innovation across our industry,” Azoff said.  Grainge is investing in artist management and merchandise
businesses as sales of CDs continue to decline. The company’s
management divisions including Trinifold, Twenty First Artists,
5B and Sanctuary will work with Front Line to expand their
rosters of artists and managers, the companies said.  Live Nation, based in Beverly Hills,  California , declined
20 cents, or 2.35 percent, to $8.32 at 2:46 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today, the shares had
declined 25 percent this year. Vivendi slid 43 cents to 15.33
euros ($20.97) today in Paris trading, and the shares have
fallen 24 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  