-- 
Jefferies Sues International Derivatives Clearing on Rate Swaps Contracts

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-09-19T20:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/jefferies-group-sues-international-derivatives-clearing-group-on-rate-swap.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  sued
 International Derivatives Clearing Group LLC , accusing the
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. unit of fraud and breach of contract in
connection with interest-rate swap futures contracts.  Jefferies & Co., the investment bank that has been
expanding since the financial crisis, claimed in the suit that
IDCG and its International Derivatives Clearinghouse unit
induced it to enter into the contracts by saying the investment
would be “economically equivalent” to transactions in similar
instruments in the over-the-counter market. The suit was filed
Sept. 16 in New York state court.  “Clearinghouse’s own rules require that it provide
transactions that are equivalent to transactions engaged in on
the over-the-counter market,” Jefferies said in the complaint.
“Yet the transactions that Clearinghouse induced Jefferies to
enter on Clearinghouse’s new exchange were not economically
equivalent to over-the-counter transactions as Clearinghouse had
represented and as its own rules required.”  Frank DeMaria, a spokesman for  Nasdaq , called the lawsuit
“without merit” and said the company will fight it. Philip C. Korologos, an attorney for Jefferies, declined to comment on the
lawsuit in a telephone interview.  IDCG started a business for the clearing and trading of
interest rate swap futures contracts in December 2008 and
“aggressively sought” Jefferies’s business, lawyers for the
investment firm wrote.  Pricing Studied  Before agreeing to process its trades with IDCG, Jefferies
studied the pricing of various instruments and made a $6 million
test trade to ensure that transactions with IDCG would be
economically equivalent to those on the over-the counter market,
Jefferies said in the complaint.  In September 2010, Jefferies entered into four additional
IDCG swap futures contracts with an aggregate nominal value of
$175 million, according to the complaint.  Jefferies has suffered tens of millions in economic damages
as a result of the improper pricing and treatment of the
instruments, Jefferies lawyers said in the lawsuit, in which it
seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.  IDCG allowed a trading counterparty to take advantage of
its failure to provide economic equivalency, Jefferies said.  The counterparty, not named in the complaint, is  DRW
Trading Group , a Chicago-based firm that is also a co-owner of
the Eris Exchange, a competitor to the futures-based clearing of
IDCG’s interest-rate swap clearinghouse.  White Paper  The lawsuit names a white paper published by two of the
counterparty “employees” and a Columbia University professor
titled “Central Clearing of Interest Rate Swaps: A Comparison
of Offerings.”  The March 11, 2001, paper was written by Radu Paul Mondescu
and Yuhua Yu of DRW Trading and Rama Cont of Columbia, according
to an  abstract  published by the Social Science Research Network.  The abstract says IDCG’s margin method isn’t compatible
with how payments are made in the over-the-counter market.  “Modifications in contract design are required in order
for a centrally cleared interest rate swap to be economically
equivalent to its uncleared counterpart,” the authors wrote.  “Three offerings are shown to be economically equivalent
to their uncleared counterparts” they wrote, naming
 LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. , CME Group Inc. and Eris Exchange. “A
fourth method, used in the IDCG swap futures contract, is shown
to lead to substantial deviations in valuation with respect to a
non-cleared interest rate swap.”  DRW Chief Executive  Donald Wilson, chief executive officer of DRW Trading,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Futures trades that mimic private OTC deals have failed in
the past. A similar effort in  interest rates  by CME Group was
discontinued in 2008.  In the complaint, Jefferies said the counterparty became
the fixed-rate payer of all transactions traded through IDCG,
and then in a paper began debating whether the transactions were
different from similar ones on the over-the-counter market.  The debate “created substantial confusion” and steered
participants away from the Clearinghouse futures contracts
market, according to the complaint.  IDCG in January allowed the counterparty to place
purportedly executable bids into the market to set prices at
levels that weren’t equivalent to the over-the-counter swaps,
Jefferies said.  “Instead of preventing or rectifying that situation and
fulfilling its promise to deliver a cleared swap futures
contract that was economically equivalent to OTC swaps,
Clearinghouse did nothing and stood by while it caused Jefferies
to suffer tens of millions of dollars in losses,” lawyers
Jefferies said in the complaint.  The case is Jefferies & Co. v. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.,
652560/2011,  New York  State Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .
Matthew Leising in New York
at   mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 