-- 
JinkoSolar Leads Chinese Solar Stocks Down, Idles Factory

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-09-19T20:29:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/jinkosolar-drops-most-ever-after-idling-factory-on-pollution.html
JinkoSolar Holding Co. fell the
most ever in  New York , leading other Chinese solar companies
down, after idling a factory that environmental regulators say
may have polluted a river.  JinkoSolar’s American depositary receipts sank $2.54, or 28
percent, to $6.50 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
the biggest decline since the company began trading in May 2010.
They have dropped 68 percent this year.  Other Chinese solar companies fell as analysts said that
margins are contracting and demand for panels will be less than
expected this year. Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. declined 7
percent and LDK Solar Co. dropped 6.8 percent, and the Bloomberg
Industries Large Solar Energy Index slipped 5.1 percent.  “It’s more of the same, unfortunately, with many of these
companies seeing shipments growth with no margin,” said Aaron Chew, analyst at Maxim Group in New York. “I think these stocks
don’t really go anywhere until next year.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. revised its global forecast for
solar shipments, according to a research note published today.
The company now expects total shipments of 15,697 megawatts of
panels in the second half of the year, 18 percent lower than its
previous estimate. It downgraded JinkoSolar to “neutral” from
“buy” with a 12-month price target of $13.  Protests  More than 500 villagers near Haining in eastern Zhejiang
province overturned eight vehicles and damaged four police cars
in protests at JinkoSolar’s factory on Sept. 15 and Sept. 16,
according to footage from a local television report posted on
the website of the city’s government. Protesters gathered for a
third day on Sept. 17 to demand an explanation for the death of
fish last month, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Residents near the Haining plant protested against
discharges from the factory from Sept. 15 to Sept. 17, the
Jiangxi-based company said today in a statement. An initial
investigation by local regulators found that the pollution may
have been caused by improper storage of waste containing
fluoride.  JinkoSolar suspended operations at the plant “until the
impact of any potential environmental damage has been assessed
and remedied,” the company said in the statement. It expect to
resume operations within the next few days. The facility had the
capacity to produce 1,100 megawatts of solar cells a year as of
June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  