-- 
Kangaroo Bond Sales Slump to 16-Month Low Amid Turmoil: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-09-20T04:12:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/kangaroo-bond-sales-slump-as-basis-swap-falls-australia-credit.html
Bond sales by foreign borrowers in
 Australia  are set for the slowest month in more than a year
after global market turmoil helped push the discount for
swapping the proceeds into U.S. dollars to the least since 2009.  Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau,  Germany ’s state-owned
development bank, and Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank are the
only sellers of so-called kangaroo bonds this month, issuing a
combined A$550 million ($563 million) of securities, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s on course for the lowest
monthly total since May 2010, and compares with an average A$3.5
billion for the first eight months of the year, the data show.  Borrowers are retreating to their home markets, or avoiding
selling debt, as speculation  Greece  will default causes
volatility in global bond, currency and equity markets, driving
yield premiums on corporate securities worldwide to the highest
level since July 2009.  Canada ’s so-called maple bond market has
been closed since June, while sales by foreign issuers in the
U.S. in September are less than half of 2011’s monthly average,
Bloomberg data show.  “Credit markets globally are very quiet and investor
demand seems reasonably subdued at the moment,” said Sally Auld, a Sydney-based interest-rate strategist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. “At least half the borrowers in the kangaroo market are
European of some ilk, and that’s clearly an issue.”  Basis Swap  The five-year Australian dollar basis swap, which measures
the cost of switching interest based on the London interbank
offered rate for payments linked to Australia’s bank bill swap
rate, was at 8 basis points in Sydney today, after falling to
5.3 on Sept. 14, the lowest close since January 2009. The higher
the level, the greater the discount for overseas borrowers
selling bonds in Australia.  The basis swap typically rises when Australian issuers seek
to sell debt offshore and bring the proceeds home, and falls
when kangaroo borrowers make the opposite transaction. It also
tends to fall in times of  risk aversion  as investors seek haven
assets such as the U.S. dollar.  “The general theme in basis has been demand for dollars,”
said JPMorgan’s Auld. “There haven’t really been any offsetting
flows. For kangaroo issuers it doesn’t exactly make it super
attractive for them to issue.”  The rate rose to 48 basis points in November 2009, the
highest since at least 1997 when Bloomberg records began, after
Australian banks increased their U.S. dollar bond sales. Since
then, an increase in household savings leading to record term
deposits has helped the banks cut their funding requirements
from bond markets.  ‘Offshore Funding’  Westpac Banking Corp.’s sale of 100 billion yen ($1.3
billion) of notes on Aug. 4 was the last benchmark offering by
one of Australia’s top four banks, which are the nation’s
largest borrowers in offshore bond markets, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Reduced need for offshore funding by Australian banks
means we think that the basis is likely to continue trending
lower as European sovereign concerns remain,” Deutsche Bank AG
analyst Ken Crompton said in a Sept. 16 note to clients.  Borrowers are getting more attractive rates in swap markets
to switch the proceeds of Australian dollar bond sales into
euros than the U.S. currency, with the five-year rate at 48.8
basis points today. It peaked at 82 in March 2009 and fell as
low as -9.5 in October 2008.  The transaction is made in two steps, from Australian
dollars into U.S. dollars, and then into euros. The discount on
the second leg helps offset the less attractive rate on the
first stage, according to Ben Stewart, a vice president and
director of syndicate at TD Securities Inc. in  Singapore .  “The European borrowers I think will look at the basis
swap in euro-dollar terms as quite attractive for them,”
Stewart said.  Debt Crisis  The sovereign-debt crisis that began in Greece has spread
to larger European nations including Spain and  Italy , where
government bond yields rose for a fourth-straight week in the
five days ended Sept. 16.  The  International Monetary Fund  and European Union are
reviewing whether Greece can meet the conditions of its rescue
loans and is eligible for the next payment due in October and
for a second rescue package. They suspended their assessment
earlier this month after discovering a hole in the budget.  Australia’s 10-year bond yield is on course to drop for a
ninth straight month as the turmoil in  Europe  stokes investor
demand for the safest assets. The yield was little changed at
4.15 percent today, or 222 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries.  Interest Rates   Traders signaled they expect  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor  Glenn Stevens  will slash the 4.75 percent benchmark
rate by 146 basis points over the next 12 months, compared with
estimates for 16 basis points in cuts at the start of August,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps.  Investors are estimating Australian consumer prices will
rise at an annual 2.54 percent pace over the coming five years,
down from this year’s high of 3.14 percent on May 6, according
to the gap between indexed government debt and bonds that aren’t
linked to inflation.  The Australian dollar bought $1.0208 as of 12:11 p.m. in
Sydney. The so-called Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, touched $1.1081 on July 27, the strongest since it
began trading freely in 1983.  A new series of the Markit iTraxx Australia index of
corporate credit-default swaps started trading today and was at
199 basis points as of 10:07 a.m. in Sydney, according to  Credit
Agricole . The previous version of the index closed at 184.8
basis points yesterday, according to data from CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  Kangaroo Sales  The three biggest sellers of kangaroo bonds this year, KfW,
 European Investment Bank  and Rentenbank, account for 45 percent
of offerings, Bloomberg data show. Another 10 European borrowers
have also accessed the market in 2011, the data show.  KfW, based in  Frankfurt  and the biggest kangaroo bond
issuer this year, added A$300 million to an existing line of 6
percent August 2020 notes on Sept. 2, pricing the securities to
yield 103.25 basis points more than similar-maturity government
debt, according to a statement. The bonds were trading at a
107.5 basis-point spread at 12:14 p.m. today, Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices show.  RBC Capital Markets  is leading kangaroo bond underwriter
rankings this year with a 16.6 percent market share, followed by
ANZ Bank and TD Securities, according to Bloomberg data.  Bond Spreads  Spreads on bonds sold by government-backed borrowers in
Australia widened 16 basis points to 72 basis points this
quarter, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Australian
Quasi and Foreign Government Index, which tracks the debt of
more than 20 kangaroo issuers including KfW and European
Investment Bank. The average yield premium touched 78 basis
points on Aug. 19, the most since June 2009.  Relative yields on company debt worldwide widened 83 to 246
since June 30, and hit 247 on Sept. 13, the highest since July
2009, Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index shows.  Sales of debt in Australia by corporate and state-backed
borrowers total A$2.4 billion this month, 72 percent lower than
the same period last year, Bloomberg data show.  “We’ve got a whole lot of fear and uncertainty in global
markets at the moment, which is pushing up spreads and limiting
issuance,” said Damien McColough, the head of fixed-income
research at Westpac in Sydney. “There’s going to be some latent
demand from investors once things settle down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 