-- 
Iceland’s Kaupthing Settles $2.4 Billion Tchenguiz Family Lawsuit on Loans

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-09-19T10:19:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/kaupthing-settles-2-4-billion-tchenguiz-lawsuit-on-loan-losses.html
Kaupthing Bank hf agreed to settle
a 1.5 billion-pound ($2.4 billion) claim brought by the
Tchenguiz Family Trust over losses caused by the Icelandic
bank’s collapse.  Kaupthing reached an agreement with the trust, Vincent Tchenguiz and other companies connected to the family, known for
its U.K. real estate investments, for an undisclosed sum,
according to a statement. Sean Bellew, a spokesman for Tchenguiz
declined to comment on the settlement’s value because the terms
are confidential.  “I am delighted that we have been able to bring this
complex matter to a satisfactory conclusion and to have
dispensed with all the uncertainties which have proved so
restricting,” Tchenguiz said in the statement today.  The family had close ties with Kaupthing and suffered what
Vincent Tchenguiz described as “massive losses” when the bank
failed in October 2008. U.K. regulators are investigating loan
deals struck between Kaupthing and Vincent Tchenguiz and his
brother Robert. The settlement will help Kaupthing’s creditors,
Vincent Tchenguiz said in the statement.  Kaupthing, based in Reykjavik, confirmed a settlement had
been reached and the Tchenguiz Family Trust had withdrawn its
claims in  a statement on its website .  In a separate claim, a trust controlled by Robert is suing
Kaupthing to recoup losses of 330.7 million pounds from a failed
loan deal. His spokeswoman, Julia Fea, didn’t immediately
respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment on the status of
that case.  The U.K.  Serious Fraud Office  arrested the brothers in
March as part of an investigation into why investors took large
loans from Kaupthing days before it collapsed. Four of Vincent’s
companies were forced into administration because of the probe,
he said in March. The family is seeking a judicial review into
whether the SFO’s actions were legal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  