-- 
Korean Won Slides to Six-Month Low on Greece Default Concerns; Bonds Drop

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-09-19T06:53:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/korean-won-nears-six-month-low-as-europe-debt-crisis-persists-bonds-rise.html
South Korea ’s won slumped to a six-
month low and  government bonds  dropped as speculation Greece
will default on its debt bolstered the dollar and sapped demand
for emerging-market assets.  European finance ministers, at a two-day meeting that ended
Sept. 17, rejected U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner’s
proposal that the  European Central Bank  be used to boost the
euro-area rescue fund’s firepower. They also said the debt
crisis leaves no room for tax cuts or extra spending to spur the
economy. The European Union and  International Monetary Fund  will
hold a teleconference call today with Greece’s government to
judge whether the country is eligible for its next aid payment.  The won fell 2.2 percent to close at 1,137.07 per dollar in
 Seoul , adding to a 3.1 percent slide last week that was the
biggest loss since June 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency earlier touched 1,141.50, the weakest
level since March 17.  “This is a market where fear dominates, and investors
react sensitively to even the smallest rumors,” said Kim Seong Soo, a Seoul-based currency trader with Kyongnam Bank. “No one
is willing to sell dollars now.”  The authorities will take steps to stabilize the  currency
market  if “herd behavior” is apparent, the  finance ministry 
said in a report to parliament today. The currency should
reflect economic fundamentals and market supply and demand, it
said.  Bonds Fall  The yield on the government’s benchmark three-year bonds
rose the most since December, climbing to the highest level in
more than a month. The rate on the 3.5 percent debt due June
2014 soared 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 3.55
percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.  “Concern that overseas bond investors are pulling out of
the Korean  bond market  is reducing demand for bonds,” said
Peter Park, a fixed-income analyst at Woori Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul. “Until recently, Korean bonds were
seen as an attractive alternative asset. Now investors are
having doubts.”  Overseas investors reduced their holdings of Korean bonds
by 106.6 billion won ($95.9 million) this month through Sept. 15,
according to the Financial Supervisory Service. European
investors reduced holdings by 1 trillion won during the same
period. Global funds held a record 84.7 trillion won of the
nation’s debt at the end of August, FSS data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  