-- 
N.Z. Economists See Less Growth on Rebuild Delay, Survey Shows

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-09-19T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/n-z-economists-see-less-growth-on-rebuild-delay-survey-shows.html
New Zealand ’s economic growth will
be slower in the year through March 2013 than previously
expected because of delays to rebuilding after the Christchurch
earthquake, according to a survey of forecasters.  Gross domestic product will increase 3.7 percent in the
year ending March 31, 2013, down from an estimated 4 percent in
the June survey, according to the average estimate of 11
economists surveyed by the Wellington-based  New Zealand
Institute of Economic Research Inc.   Slower growth next year adds to the case for record-low
interest rates to persist until next year. Central bank Governor
Alan Bollard indicated last week he’ll raise interest rates once
he is sure New Zealand is emerging unscathed from Europe’s
fiscal crisis and economic growth concerns in the U.S.  “Global risks mean rate hikes are likely to be from early
2012,” the institute said in an e-mailed statement, citing
economists’ predictions for bank bill rates. The survey
responses were received before Bollard’s Sept. 15 decision to
leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5 percent.  Nine of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect
Bollard will leave  interest rates  unchanged until at least
January. One analyst predicts an October increase and seven see
a rate rise in December.  Low borrowing costs have helped the economy recover after
the Feb. 22 temblor killed 181 people and closed the central
business district in the country’s second-biggest city, located
in the  South Island ’s Canterbury province. Growth will
accelerate to 2.6 percent in the year through March 2012 from
1.5 percent a year earlier, the survey shows.  ‘Sizeable Impetus’  “While the Canterbury reconstruction will provide a
sizeable impetus, particularly to the construction sector,
economists are still uncertain on the actual timing and speed of
reconstruction,” the institute said.  Growth will average 3.5 percent over the three years ending
March 31, 2014, according to the institute. Excluding Canterbury
rebuilding, growth will average 2.7 percent.  Exports will grow less strongly because of weaker global
growth and expectations of sustained currency strength, the
institute said. Household spending growth will be steady rather
than accelerate, it said.  Consumer confidence  was unchanged in the third quarter,
according to an index calculated by Westpac Banking Corp. and
McDermott Miller Ltd. published today.  The institute’s quarterly survey includes the forecasts of
the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand, Treasury Department, eight bank
economists and the institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  