-- 
Narrowest Yield Curve in 10 Months Signals Deeper Recession: Japan Credit

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a ,   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-09-20T04:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/narrowing-yield-curve-signals-deepening-recession-japan-credit.html
Investors have pushed yields on
 Japan ’s 10-year bonds to the lowest since November relative to
five-year notes, signaling increasing concern about the world’s
third-largest economy’s ability to emerge from recession.  The gap shrank to 65 basis points today, from this year’s
high of 79 basis points in April, after data this month showed
that Japan’s economy contracted in the second quarter by more
than initially reported. The yield difference, which narrows as
investors accept less in compensation to own long-term debt on
expectations growth won’t be strong enough to spark inflation,
compares with 110 basis points in the U.S.  So-called yield curves are shrinking all around the world
as reports on everything from  consumer confidence  to
manufacturing signal that the global economy is decelerating. On
Sept. 8 the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said Japan’s economy will expand 4.1 percent this
quarter before stalling in the fourth.  “Japan’s bonds are pricing in another slowdown and
recession, judging from narrowing gaps between short- and long-
term yields in the U.S. and elsewhere,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, a
senior strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit
of Japan’s third-largest banking group. “Long-term yields are
not only reflecting expectations for further monetary easing,
but also a global economic slowdown.”  Relative Yields  Japan’s benchmark 10-year yield declined two basis points
to 0.985 percent today, after reaching 0.97 percent on Aug. 19,
the lowest since Nov. 9. That compares with 1.94 percent in the
U.S. and 1.8 percent in  Germany . Japan’s five-year bond yield
was at 0.335 percent.  Credit-default swaps protecting Japan’s debt from losses
for five years climbed to a record 123 basis points on Sept. 13,
CMA prices in  New York  showed. CMA is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Japan’s gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 2.1
percent rate in the three months ended June 30, the Cabinet
Office said on Sept. 9. That was more than the 1.3 percent
contraction initially reported last month for a nation reeling
from a strong yen, a record earthquake in March and an ongoing
nuclear disaster.  Stocks Drop  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average closed at 8,518.57 yen on
Sept. 14, the lowest close since April 2009. The price of shares
on the average slid to 1.13 times book value, near the least
since April 2009.  Global growth concerns have boosted demand for safer
assets, with Japan’s sovereign debt maturing in 10 years or
longer returning 0.6 percent in August, the fifth-consecutive
monthly gain, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. The Nikkei 225 plunged 8.9 percent in its steepest
monthly slide since May 2010.  “A prolonged slump in the global economy will certainly
damage Japanese companies’ earnings for a long time,” said
Hiroshi Fujimoto, a  fund manager  at Tokyo-based Shinkin Asset
Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $3.9 billion.
“That’s why investors are unwilling to buy stocks despite cheap
valuations.”  Overseas investors, who accounted for 69 percent of Japan’s
stock trading by value in August, sold a net 1.07 trillion yen
($14 billion) of shares during the month, according to data
released by the Tokyo Stock Exchange on Sept. 9. It was the
fourth-most on record and the first net sale in a year.  Reconstruction Benefits  “Japan’s economy isn’t in as bad a situation as  Europe  and
the U.S.,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a senior strategist in Tokyo
at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of Japan’s
biggest bank by market value. “Sooner or later, reconstruction
efforts will create demand and boost the economy, which gives
upward pressure to bond yields.”  Ten-year bond yields may rise to 1.2 percent by the end of
March, while the Nikkei 225 may advance to as high as 10,000,
Ishigane said.  U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers will start a two-day
policy meeting today after Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last
month that the central bank still has stimulus tools without
providing details or committing to deploying them.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
Sept. 8 that risks to the economic outlook in the 17-member  euro
zone  are on the downside. The ECB said Sept. 15 that it and
other central banks will coordinate to lend dollars to euro-area
banks, easing liquidity concerns amid the region’s debt crisis.  Italy’s credit rating was cut by  Standard & Poor’s  on
concern that weakening economic growth and a “fragile”
government mean the nation won’t be able to reduce the euro-
region’s second-largest debt burden. The rating was lowered to A
from A+, with a negative outlook, S&P said in a statement dated
yesterday.  Rising Yen  The yen has gained against all of its 16 major counterparts
over the past three months. It reached 75.95 per dollar on Aug.
19, a post-war high, and touched 103.90 per euro on Sept. 12,
the strongest since June 2001. An appreciating yen hurts
exporters because it reduces the value of overseas income.  At its meeting on Sept. 7, the  Bank of Japan  kept monetary
policy unchanged, after adding 10 trillion yen of stimulus last
month. BOJ board member Ryuzo Miyao said the central bank is
ready to take “appropriate” action as needed to support the
economy amid worries that the yen will stay strong.  Participants in Japan’s bond market expect yields on
 government securities  to remain stable at low levels, a senior
Ministry of Finance official said Sept. 16 after  meetings  with
the nation’s 24 primary dealers.  Third Package  Primary dealers said investors will continue to avoid
taking risks amid uncertainty over the  U.S. economy  and
sovereign-debt woes in Europe, the official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity, told reporters in Tokyo. Participants
said investors will be watching developments in Japan’s
compilation of its third extra budget for reconstruction.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , who previously served as
finance minister, said the government will compile a third post-
disaster stimulus package to spur growth and enhances fiscal
discipline on the world’s biggest debt burden. The premier also
indicated taxes may need to be raised to help fund the
initiatives.  Since the March 11 earthquake, the central bank has done
everything from bolstering asset-programs to increasing
liquidity provisions to bolster growth. Bank of Japan board
member Sayuri Shirai said last week that that she hasn’t ruled
out any monetary stimulus tools.  “We added 10 trillion yen in August and we’ll implement
that through the end of next year,” said Shirai, a former Keio
University economics professor who joined the board in April,
referring to expansions to the bank’s asset-buying fund and
credit program taken on Aug. 4, the day the government sold the
yen to stem its advance. “That means we’re still in the middle
of rolling out our monetary stimulus. We expect to continue to
see the effect of that easing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  