-- 
Netanyahu Antitrust Vow Sinks Markets as Cellcom Plunges: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f ,   S u s a n   L e r n e r   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 
2011-09-20T15:46:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/netanyahu-antitrust-vow-sinks-markets-as-cellcom-plunges-israel-overnight.html
Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , the mobile
phone company controlled by billionaire Nochi Dankner, fell the
most in a month in  New York , joining a rout in the nation’s
biggest holding companies as Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
proposed breaking up conglomerates to spur competition.  The rule changes target  Israel ’s 10 largest corporate
groups, which comprise 41 percent of the value of publicly
traded companies, according to data included in a Finance
Ministry presentation yesterday. Cellcom, which is 47 percent
owned by Dankner’s Discount Investment Corp., sank 4.3 percent
to $20.81 on the New York Stock Exchange. Delek Group Ltd. and
Paz Oil Co. sank more than 6 percent in Tel Aviv yesterday.  “These groups now face a problem, they need to decide what
they want to sell,” said Gilad Alper, an analyst at Excellence
Nessuah Investment House in  Ramat Gan , Israel. “There’s concern
that some of the groups will have to use shotgun sales in order
to comply with the new regulation.”  Netanyahu pledged to act on recommendations from a
government-appointed panel that he said yesterday “will lead to
significant changes in the Israeli economy.” About 20 families
control 25 percent of the listed companies on the Tel Aviv Stock
Exchange, representing one of the highest concentrations among
developed economies, the central bank said in its 2009 annual
report.  Tshuva, Bino  Shares of Netanya, Israel-based Cellcom posted the second-
biggest drop on the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest
Israeli companies traded in New York. The gauge dropped for the
first time in a week, retreating 1.6 percent to 82.43. Israel’s
TA-25 benchmark index fell for the first time in five days
yesterday after a government-appointed panel recommended steps
to boost competition, including eliminating major cross holdings
in financial companies.  Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) , the Israeli holding company owned by
Isaac Tshuva that has stakes in natural-gas businesses as well
the insurer Phoenix Holdings Ltd., tumbled 6.8 percent to 495.40
shekels yesterday, the lowest level since July 2009. The shares
soared 9 percent today.  Paz Oil Co., a petroleum products maker controlled by Zadik Bino, who also owns First International Bank of Israel Ltd.,
tumbled 6.5 percent yesterday. The shares rose 4.5 percent
today. Cellcom shares climbed 2.4 percent to 78.15 shekels in
Tel Aviv today, the equivalent of $21.29. They fell 1.4 percent
yesterday.  The changes may result in Delek selling Phoenix, Bino
disposing of First International and Dankner divesting Clal
Insurance Enterprise Holdings Ltd., according to Terence Klingman, head of research at Meitav Brokerage.  Not Enough Appetite  “There will be big chunks of shares that will have to be
distributed and there may not be enough institutional appetite
to buy these shares,” Klingman said by telephone yesterday.  The TA-25 Index climbed 3.3 percent to 1,067.99 today after
yesterday’s 2.8 percent slump.  Netanyahu said yesterday the panel’s recommendations will
help fix “the situation that has gone on for decades.”  The panel made its conclusions public as the government
deals with consumer protests over the cost of living. Netanyahu
pledged Sept. 4 to curb inflation after rallies brought more
than 400,000 people onto the streets.  Netanyahu said he will act on recommendations from a panel
headed by  Tel Aviv  University economist Manuel Trajtenberg that
are due by the end of this month and aim to provide cheaper
housing and bring down prices for food, child care and
transportation.  Investors are concerned about “a change in the rules of
the game,” Ruben Eblagon, chairman of Tel Aviv-based Rosario
Capital Investment House, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “This could lead to a slowdown in the economy and
hit the middle classes -- exactly the opposite of what the
committee is looking to do.”  Mellanox Climbs  The shekel weakened strengthened 0.5 percent to 3.6714 per
dollar at 6:27 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd., the 12-year-old Israeli adapter
maker part-owned by Oracle Corp., rose 1.3 percent to a record
$35.60, the highest since the company listed shares in February
2007. The Tel Aviv shares retreated for a third day today,
declining 0.9 percent to 125 shekels, or the equivalent of
$34.05. The company said after the U.S. close it’s planning a
public offering of 3 million shares.  EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH) , the Israeli maker of network
processors that counts Cisco Systems Inc. as a customer, dropped
1.1 percent to $34.47 yesterday. The Tel Aviv shares climbed 1.6
percent today to 128.10 shekels, or the equivalent of $34.89.  The stock was cut to “hold” from “buy” at Auriga
Securities.  Alon Jumps  Alon Holdings Blue Square Israel Ltd., the nation’s second-
largest food retailer, advanced 7.2 percent to $5.65. The Tel
Aviv shares jumped 9 percent to 21.21 shekels, or the equivalent
of $5.78, today.  Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE) , a maker of digital surveillance and
monitoring systems, fell 1.4 percent to $30.45. The Tel Aviv
shares advanced 2.5 percent to 114.30 shekels, or the equivalent
of $31.13, today.  Nice agreed to acquire Fizzback, a maker of customer-
service software, for about $80 million in cash. The acquisition
is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter and add to
adjusted earnings within four quarters after the closing, it
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Lerner  in Jerusalem at 
 slerner2@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  