-- 
Netflix Separates DVD Business as Qwikster, Adds Games

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-09-19T22:10:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/netflix-to-separate-dvd-business-as-qwikster-offer-video-games.html
(Corrects share decline in third paragraph.)  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  plans to separate its
mail-order DVD business from movie streaming, a move the company
said will give both businesses a better chance to grow.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos ,  California , will create a
wholly owned DVD-by-mail subsidiary called Qwikster “in coming
weeks,” Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings said in a blog
post yesterday. The company doesn’t plan to spin off the DVD
division, said  Steve Swasey , a spokesman.  Customers will have to log in to separate websites for the
two services and will be billed separately. The change may
alienate users who were attracted to the convenience of a single
site for both, according to James McQuivey, an analyst at
Forrester Research. Netflix fell 31 percent over the past three
trading sessions after cutting its subscriber forecast.  “It’s baffling to do this now,” McQuivey said. “The
simple, single-user experience alone has been a large
contributor to Netflix’s growth. That flexibility is now gone,
and it doesn’t make sense from a digital customer perspective.”  Hastings called the separation necessary because the
businesses have different growth trajectories. He also
apologized to Netflix customers for the company’s handling of
recent price changes, saying he “messed up.”  In July, Netflix announced separate pricing for the mail-
order and streaming business, raising the cost by 60 percent to
$15.98 a month for users who want both. Before the changes,
customers paid $9.99 for unlimited streaming and one movie out
at a time.  Shares Fall  Netflix fell $11.44, or 7.4 percent, to $143.75 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares slid
last week after the company said it lost more customers than
expected following the price changes and have now lost 18
percent this year.  “It is clear from the feedback over the past two months
that many members felt we lacked respect and humility in the way
we announced the separation of DVD and streaming, and the price
changes,” Hastings said.  Hastings didn’t address investor concerns that the
streaming business faces challenges from rival services such as
Amazon.com and Hulu LLC, said Shahid S. Kahn, chairman of
MediaMorph Inc., an adviser that tracks how content performs on
different platforms for media companies.  “Netflix is making yet another bad move by separating
Qwikster,” Kahn said in an e-mail. “It’s giving up a
predictable, albeit shrinking business, for an unpredictable,
highly competitive business.”  Licensing Costs  Netflix faces rising costs and other headwinds in licensing
streaming content. Starz, part John Malone’s Liberty Media Corp.
empire, said this month it won’t renew a contract ending in
February that gave Netflix rights to newer movies from  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and Walt Disney Co.  Operating two websites will allow Netflix and Qwikster to
innovate more rapidly, “which will be better for all members,”
Swasey said in an e-mailed response to the criticism.  In addition to offering DVDs and Blu-ray discs, Qwikster
will rent video games for Nintendo Co.’s Wii, Sony Corp.’s
PlayStation 3 and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox 360 consoles for an
additional fee, Hastings said, adding other changes are coming.  Andy Rendich, who has led the DVD operation for four years,
will be Qwikster’s CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  