-- 
News Corp. Said to Pay $4.7 Million to Settle Dowler Phone-Hacking Claims

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-20T12:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/news-corp-seeks-to-settle-with-dowler-family-guardian-says.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit agreed to
pay 3 million pounds ($4.7 million) to settle claims that the
News of the World tabloid hacked the mobile phone of a murdered
schoolgirl, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The proposed settlement includes a 2 million-pound payment
to the family of Milly Dowler and a 1 million-pound donation to
charity, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private. News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch was
personally involved in the negotiations, the person said.  News Corp. is trying to “be seen to be generous as it’s
much more than would be awarded by a court,” said Niri Shan,
the head of media law at Taylor Wessing LLP in London. “The
only downside is if it potentially sets an unrealistic
expectation for others.”  Reports in July that Dowler’s messages had been intercepted
triggered a public outcry that forced New York-based News Corp.
to close the 168-year-old tabloid and drop its 7.8 billion-pound
bid for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  The
Parliament’s Culture Committee decided last week to recall News
Corp. Deputy Chief Operating Officer  James Murdoch  after former
employees questioned statements he made about his knowledge of
the extent of hacking at the News of the World.  Mark Lewis , the lawyer for Dowler’s parents and sister,
said today he hasn’t yet accepted the offer from London-based
News International. The unit said in an e-mailed statement that
it was in “advanced negotiations” with the family.  Hugh Grant   The Guardian reported the amount of the settlement
yesterday.  The settlement would have been more welcome if it hadn’t
been made “only as a result of the exposure of phone hacking”
in news stories, the victims’ group  Hacked Off  said today in a
statement. Actor Hugh Grant, the public face of the London-based
group, has claimed his phone was hacked.  “The family have been through a terrible ordeal,” the
group said in its statement. “This is a welcome signal of
remorse from News Corporation.”  Rupert Murdoch  met with the Dowler family in July to
apologize. “I said I was appalled to find out what happened,”
Murdoch said after the July 15 meeting. “I apologized and I
have nothing else to say.”  Lewis has been hired by celebrities and other public
figures whose phones may have been hacked by the News of the
World. He represented  Gordon Taylor , the chief executive of the
Professional Footballers’ Association, whose secret settlement
with News Corp. in 2008 was later made public.  Sienna Miller   While the Dowler family hadn’t filed a lawsuit, the
reported settlement would be larger than some others the company
has reached in hacking cases. Actress Sienna Miller agreed to a
100,000-pound payout and sports commentator Andy Gray will
receive 20,000 pounds. Both will also receive legal costs.  U.K. lawmaker  Tom Watson , a member of the Labour party,
said the settlement may cause News Corp. to exceed its proposed
20 million-pound fund to settle phone-hacking claims.  “Clearly for a 2 million-pound settlement for a single
case” the total amount to resolve the scandal is going “to be
dramatically more,” Watson said on the BBC News Channel.  The amount of the Dowler settlement reflects the
exceptional circumstances of the matter, the person familiar
with the negotiations said.  London police, who have arrested 16 people since reopening
the hacking probe in January, are also investigating whether
journalists bribed officers for confidential information.  The Metropolitan Police arrested one of its detectives for
allegedly leaking information about the probe to the media, and
last week said it would seek to force the Guardian to reveal its
secret sources for certain hacking stories.  The revelation about Dowler’s voice mail also prompted the
resignation and arrest of Rebekah Brooks, the chief executive
officer of News Corp.’s U.K. unit and a former editor of the
News of the World.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  