-- 
LNG Surges as Japan Vies With China, Exxon’s Shipments Grow

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-09-19T18:50:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/lng-price-boom-seen-as-japan-vies-with-china-while-exxon-s-shipments-grow.html
Liquefied natural gas prices are
surging to a three-year high as demand from  Japan , China and
India outpaces supply increases, boosting sales for producers
from  BG Group Plc (BG/)  to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   Record Japanese imports to replace nuclear power after the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi disaster, plus a 27 percent jump in China’s
first-half purchases, may send prices to about $20 per million
British thermal units this winter, up 71 percent from 2010 and
the highest since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The world’s spare production capacity shrank about 50 percent
this year as consumption grew, and will continue to decline
through 2014, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. says.  Rising LNG prices are encouraging Exxon and BG, which got
27 percent of its operating profit from the fuel in the first
half, to develop and transport more. That may spur North
American exports by 2016 and help the world’s fastest-growing
economies contain inflation from rising oil and coal costs.  “LNG demand will go up, there’s no other alternative,”
said P.K. Jain, the New Delhi-based director of finance at  GAIL
India Ltd. (GAIL) , the nation’s biggest gas distributor and a co-owner
of Petronet LNG Ltd., the largest buyer. “Demand will rise in
 Asia  as Japan increases LNG use after Fukushima and even in
 Europe , with countries moving away from nuclear, long-term
demand for LNG may rise.”  More Optimistic  Demand for gas cooled to liquid and transported by ships
may be making U.S. forecasters more optimistic about natural
gas. Bulls outnumber bears by about six to one, a reversal from
the one-to-two ratio a month ago, according to Bloomberg data.
While gas futures on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange have
slumped 13 percent this year to $3.829 per million British
thermal units, LNG, which is not exchange-traded, has gained.  Liquefied gas costs surged about 33 percent after Japan’s
March 11 earthquake and tsunami caused reactor meltdowns at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima plant, and have since
climbed toward $16 per million Btu, according to Mark Greenwood,
an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney. They may rise to $20
this winter, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of eight analysts.  The country bought spot shipments at $15 per million Btu in
July, according to Ministry of Finance data. Spot deliveries,
typically from utilities facing emergency and weather-related
needs, reached a 33-month high in June and July. The 10 regional
power suppliers bought and consumed record amounts for a second
month in August amid all-time low utilization rates at nuclear
plants, the Federation of Electric Power Companies said.  Price Forecasts  “We see prices going to $20,” said Peter Buchanan, an
economist at CIBC World Markets Inc. in Toronto. His forecasts
for natural gas at Henry Hub in Erath,  Louisiana , the benchmark
for futures traded on the Nymex, were the second-most accurate
after Bank of America Corp. for the eight quarters ended June
30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sixty percent of the 19 analyst forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg on Sept. 9 were bullish on U.S. gas, while 13 percent
were negative. That compares with 29 percent that were
optimistic and 57 percent bearish a month earlier.  Global LNG demand grew 9 percent in the first half and 13
percent over the past 12 months, Bernstein Research said in an
Aug. 29 report. Spare production capacity is likely to shrink to
26 million metric tons a year in 2011 and to 2 million by 2014,
stoking prices and benefiting BG,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Total
SA (FP)  and PetroChina Co., according to the report.  ‘Insufficient Supply’  “Given the underlying strength in demand from emerging
markets and Japan, there is insufficient supply coming onto the
market over the next three years which will lead to tighter
spare capacity and higher prices,”  Neil Beveridge , the Hong
Kong-based senior analyst at Bernstein, said in an e-mail.
“Asian customers will increasingly be competing with European
customers, which will lead to higher gas prices outside of  North
America .”  Atomic power provided about 30 percent of the electricity
in Japan, the world’s third-biggest economy, before March 11.
About 76 percent of Japan’s 54 reactors are offline, with more
scheduled to shut for maintenance. Demand is unlikely to ease
anytime soon as Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , who replaced
Naoto Kan as premier on Sept. 2, struggles to win public support
for restarting reactors.  The three stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear reactors are
forecast to be brought into a state of “cold shutdown” by the
end of this year,  Goshi Hosono , minister in charge of the
response to the nuclear crisis, said today at the International
Atomic Energy Agency’s general conference in Vienna.  German Decision  “The Japanese tsunami certainly did increase the demand
quite dramatically for LNG imports into the region, which
effectively tightened the global LNG market more quickly than
most people had anticipated,” said  Allison Nathan , a senior
commodities economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York.
“We now see the global market as tight.”  Supplies have become scarcer partly because Germany decided
on March 15 to close eight of its 17 atomic stations following
Fukushima. Qatar, the world’s biggest LNG producer, said Sept. 5
it will shut three of seven production lines for maintenance
through October.  Japan’s senior vice minister of trade and industry, Seishu
Makino, asked U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu at a meeting in
San Francisco last week to increase exports.  Cheniere Energy, the Houston-based Blackstone Group LP-
backed owner of the Sabine Pass terminal in Louisiana, got
approval to ship fuel to Japan in May. The Freeport terminal in
Freeport, Texas, and the Lake Charles facility in Lake Charles,
Louisiana, are also seeking clearance for exports, according to
Akinobu Yoshikawa, deputy manager for Japan’s Petroleum and
Natural Gas Division.  “The impact for our imports will be big,” Yoshikawa told
reporters in Tokyo Sept. 14.  North American Exports  Before the tsunami, Japan used about 70 million tons of LNG
a year. The demand will  rise  as much as 15 million tons, or 21
percent, in the 2011 fiscal year and as much as 20 million tons
in 2012, the  Institute of Energy Economics  said in August.  North America may export about 5 billion cubic feet a day
of LNG, or roughly the combined LNG export capacity of Nigeria
and Algeria, globally by 2017 from projects that turn surplus
gas from shale-rock formations to LNG for shipment to customers
in Asia and Europe, according to the Eurasia Group, a New York-
based consultant. That’s about half of the six proposed
developments by companies including Cheniere in the U.S. Gulf
Coast and British Columbia.  The U.S. may produce more than 12 trillion cubic feet of
shale gas a year by 2020 in a “high-case scenario,” about a
three-fold jump from last year’s level, as it boosts output by
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, of gas trapped in shale
deposits,  Gaffney, Cline & Associates , a unit of Baker Hughes
Inc., the world’s third-largest oilfield-services provider, said
in a presentation in  Singapore  on Sept. 12.  2020 Surplus  “In the high-case scenario, U.S. shale gas could provide
an exportable surplus by 2020,” Stuart Traver, a consultant for
the company in Singapore, said in the presentation. Shale gas
accounted for approximately 20 percent of total U.S. production
in 2010.  In fracking, producers force chemically treated water into
underground shale wells to break up rock and let gas flow. About
84 trillion cubic feet of undiscovered, technically recoverable
gas lie in the Marcellus Shale under New York and seven other
states, the U.S. Geological Survey said Aug. 23. The U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency is studying the effects of
fracking because opponents say it’s a threat to drinking water.  Qatar and producers such as Australia, Malaysia and
Indonesia are competing to satisfy demand for LNG from  China  and
India, the world’s fastest-growing major economies. China’s
imports rose 27 percent to 5.2 million tons in the first half of
2011 from a year earlier and reached a record in July, according
to customs data.  PetroChina Terminal  PetroChina started trial operations at its 3.5 million ton-
a-year Jiangsu LNG terminal in May and is buying two spot
cargoes a month. It may boost purchases in coming months, Liu
Wenfei, a director at the terminal, said Sept. 16. China
National Offshore Oil Corp., operator of three terminals, may
increase imports by 16 percent via its Guangdong facility this
year, a company official said the same day.  India’s LNG  imports  increased 26 percent in the first half,
according to Bernstein estimates. The country’s gas use may
double to as much as 400 million cubic meters a day by 2016,
while domestic supply may be about 200 million cubic meters,
A.K. Balyan, managing director of New Delhi-based Petronet LNG,
said last month. The company is planning a 50 percent expansion
of capacity to convert LNG back into gas and has held talks with
Cheniere on supply contracts, Balyan said in June.  While their LNG needs increase, the economies of Asia are
struggling to damp rising prices, including the costs of coal
and oil. China has raised  interest rates  five times since
October to contain inflation, which has been above the
government’s 2011 target of 4 percent every month this year.
Indian inflation has held above 9 percent throughout 2011 even
after six rate increases.  Higher Costs  Newcastle coal from Australia, an Asian pricing benchmark,
surged 29 percent since Sept. 24, 2010, to $122.90 a ton. Brent
crude oil futures rose 41 percent in the past year to $111.54 a
barrel.  The U.S. may export enough LNG within five years to push
down global  gas prices  if the cost disparity between domestic
supplies and those in Europe and Asia remains about the same,
Gerard Mestrallet, the chairman and chief executive officer of
Courbevoie, Paris-based GDF Suez, Europe’s largest LNG importer,
said in a Sept. 9 interview in New York.  Asia’s purchases of term LNG, or contractual supplies, are
typically priced off a basket of imported Japanese crude oil,
known as the Japan Crude Cocktail. Spot LNG is usually linked to
the U.K.’s National Balancing Point, with Asia paying a premium
to divert cargoes away from Europe.  U.S. Prices  Natural gas in the U.S. trades at about $4 per million Btu,
while Asia pays at least $14, Traver said in the presentation.
North American LNG could be delivered at about $9 per million
Btu, encouraging utilities in Asia to seek a new pricing regime
linked to the U.S. benchmark, he said. Term supplies of LNG to
Asia have been linked to oil prices since Japan first started
buying the fuel more than four decades ago.  Australia may produce an additional 60 million tons of LNG
from projects in western Australia and coal seam gas ventures in
Queensland by 2016, according to Bernstein Research. That
includes the  Gorgon  project, developed by  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Exxon
and Shell.  Short-term demand will be affected by temperatures in the
coming Northern Hemisphere winter, when heating requirements
increase.  “If Japan gets terribly cold weather, they’ll be out
buying in the spot market, driving up prices,” said Zach Allen,
president of Pan Eurasian Enterprises Inc., a Raleigh, North
Carolina-based tracker of LNG shipments who predicts prices may
rise 26 percent this winter. “Prices can always spike much
higher than that over very short periods.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  