-- 
Nigeria May Raise Benchmark Interest Rate to Curb Inflation

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-09-19T09:24:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/nigeria-may-raise-benchmark-interest-rate-to-curb-inflation.html
Nigeria ’s central bank will
probably raise its benchmark interest rate today for the fifth
consecutive time to keep inflation under 10 percent and
stabilize the naira.  The bank will raise the rate by a quarter of a percentage
point to half a percentage from 8.75 percent, according to eight
of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Governor Lamido Sanusi
is to give the decision from 3:30 p.m. in Abuja, the capital.  “Concerns will be around the currency and the need to
control inflation through the exchange rate,” Adedayo Idowu, a
research analyst at the Lagos-based Vetiva Capital Management
Ltd., said in an e-mailed note on Sept. 16. “Speculators remain
unconvinced on the stability of the currency in the near term,
despite all the policy responses, and keep betting on
devaluation.”  The government of Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer,
more than doubled the  minimum wage  to 18,000 naira ($118.15)
last month, adding to price pressures. While inflation slowed to
9.3 percent in August from 9.4 percent, the core inflation rate,
which excludes food, rose to 10.9 percent, and will probably
continue to increase this year, Idowu said.  Nigeria’s naira weakened 2.7 percent against the dollar
this year and was at 156.20 by 10 a.m. The  central bank  tries to
keep the currency within a range of between 3 percent above or
below 150 per dollar.  Nigeria’s economy, the second-biggest in sub-Saharan Africa
after  South Africa , expanded 7.72 percent in the second quarter,
driven by growth in the non-oil sector, according to the
 National Bureau of Statistics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  