-- 
Loan Recovery Eludes Euro Area Deals Caught in Crisis Contagion

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-09-19T09:51:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/loan-recovery-eludes-euro-area-deals-caught-in-crisis-contagion.html
A recovery in the leveraged loan
market failed to help new borrowers in  Europe  where contagion
from the euro crisis forced buyout firms to restructure at least
two deals.  BC Partners Ltd. offered lenders higher interest margins
and scaled back a planned high-yield bond for the buyout of
Swedish cable company Com Hem AB, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Blackstone Group LP may change the structure of a 500
million-euro ($690 million) loan to fund the buyout of German
outdoor clothing retailer Jack Wolfskin.  European finance ministers ruled out efforts to prop up the
faltering economy and gave no indication of providing aid for
lenders to go along with last week’s liquidity lifeline from the
 European Central Bank . Clashing with U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner , finance chiefs from the euro region said the
18-month debt crisis leaves no room for tax cuts or extra
spending to spur an economy on the brink of stagnation.  “People are frightened, the IPO market is shut, high-yield
is shut, and secondary market gives better value, so investors
can be picky on new deals,” said John Seal, a London-based
partner at New Amsterdam Capital Management LLP, which oversees
about 1.6 billion euros. “We are looking at six deals now and
we think we may turn down three or four of them. It’s hard to
see how long this will last but given the macro uncertainty, I
don’t expect people to become brave again soon.”  Secondary Market Recovery  Average bid prices for European leveraged loans on the
secondary market rose four basis points last week to 88.43
percent of face value on Sept. 15, up from a 2011 low of 88.35
the week ending Sept. 2, according to prices provided by Markit
Group Ltd. Deutsch Group, a maker of electrical connectors owned
by Wendel SA, was the top gainer, rising 6.6 percent to 93.7.  Stockholm-based Com Hem added 865 million kronor ($128.5
million) of junior pay-in-kind notes to its 7.1 billion kronor
financing, reducing the amount of debt serviced with cash to 5.9
times its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization from 6.4 times under the structure proposed in
July, Bloomberg data show. PIK notes allow borrowers to pay
interest with more debt instead of cash and typically pay
margins double those of senior-ranking loans.  Com Hem also increased the interest margin on a 6.5-year
term loan B by 25 basis points to 500 basis points, according to
Bloomberg data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  German outdoor clothing retailer  Jack Wolfskin  is
discussing with lenders changes to take into account an
improvement in  cash flow , after it offered sweetened terms to
the proposed financing in July, a person with direct knowledge
of the deal said Sept. 14.  Leveraged buyout loans coming to the market in the past two
weeks represent less than 4.3 times the borrowers’ Ebitda, the
lowest since at least 2001 and below the 2011 average of 4.8
times, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “Leverage ratios of new deals throughout 2011 have come
down to 2004 levels, but in 2004 we were in a world that was
growing, not like now when the economic outlook is anemic,”
said David Milward, head of loans at  Henderson Global Investors 
in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  