-- 
Obama’s UN Appearance Shadowed by Standoff Over Palestinian Bid

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-09-19T19:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/obama-s-un-appearance-shadowed-by-standoff-over-palestinian-bid.html
This time last year, U.S. President
 Barack Obama  told the  United Nations  General Assembly that, with
his administration’s involvement, an Israeli-Palestinian peace
accord might be possible by the group’s next annual gathering.  If all parties worked hard, he said, “when we come back
here next year, we can have an agreement that will lead to a new
member of the United Nations -- an independent, sovereign state
of  Palestine  living in peace with Israel.”  The president arrives today in New York for three days at
the UN General Assembly’s opening session with that goal in
shambles, his Mideast policy in trouble, and the future of the
democracy movements in the Arab world -- and U.S. influence
there -- unclear.  “As far as the Arab world is concerned, our credibility is
already at an all-time low,” said a former U.S. Middle East
negotiator,  Aaron David Miller , senior public policy fellow at
the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, a policy
research group in Washington.  Obama’s earlier declarations on the peace process “made a
bad situation worse by raising expectations without the capacity
to deliver,” Miller said.  Obama is turning briefly to focus on foreign policy at time
when his administration is largely occupied with the state of
the  U.S. economy  and a looming battle with Congress over how to
reignite growth, drive down unemployment and deal with the
nation’s long-term deficit. He’ll arrive in New York hours after
delivering recommendations for a plan to trim the U.S. budget
shortfall by $3 trillion over the next decade through a
combination of tax increases and spending cuts.  With U.S. voters concerned with jobs and the economy,
Miller said, Obama’s attention to foreign policy “becomes
either a drag, in my judgment, or a wash.”  Europe ’s Economy  Aside from the Israeli-Palestinian situation, Europe’s
economic woes will be reviewed in meetings on the sidelines of
the UN session, six weeks before the G20 meets in  France .  “It will certainly be an issue of discussion,” said
deputy national security adviser  Ben Rhodes , on the agenda for
Obama’s meetings with French President Nicolas Sarkozy, UK Prime
Minister David Cameron, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff and
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda .  Understanding how the European leaders are addressing their
situations “allows us to give greater confidence in terms of
what we’re doing going forward on the economy,” Rhodes said.  The prospect that  Greece  will fail to qualify for more
financial aid needed to avoid default halted a five-day rally in
benchmark indexes. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 2
percent to 1,192.10 at 1:14 p.m. in  New York  and the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index closed down 2.3 percent. Ten-year Treasury
yields fell 11 basis points and the similar-maturity Greek yield
jumped 183 basis points.  Wide Impact  “Europe’s obviously under a lot of pressure and they face
a lot of challenges,” U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said today at a White House briefing. “It’s affecting
confidence here and around the world, not just in Europe.”  Heather Conley , a former deputy assistant secretary of
state for European and Eurasian affairs during former President
George W. Bush’s administration, said there is “precious
little” the Obama administration can do with regard to the
European sovereign debt crisis “other than to urge Europe to
take action.”  While at the UN, Obama will have foreign policy successes
to talk about in his group and individual meetings with world
leaders and in a speech he’s scheduled to deliver on Sept. 21 o
the General Assembly.  U.S. Successes  These include the killing of al-Qaeda founder Osama bin Laden in  Pakistan  by U.S. forces in May, and Libyans’ toppling
of dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  with UN and NATO support. Among the
leaders Obama will meet with this week is Mustafa Abdel Jalil,
chairman of Libya’s Transitional National Council.  The biggest challenge for the U.S. this week is the
Palestinians’ stated intent to seek recognition either as a full
member state through the UN Security Council or as a non-member
state through the General Assembly, said  Jon Alterman , director
of the Middle East Program at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a policy institute in  Washington .  The U.S. is prepared to veto a UN Security Council bid. The
U.S. would have less power to stop a General Assembly vote.
Although such votes aren’t expected to take place until after
Obama leaves New York, the controversy will color his meetings
and shape his speech.  “I can’t figure out any way anybody comes out ahead on
this Palestine vote,” Alterman said. “I see it hurting
everybody’s interest.”  Reaction to Veto  Although Obama must stand with U.S.-ally Israel against the
Palestinian bid, Alterman said, a U.S. veto would lead “to all
sorts of complaints the administration has no credibility in the
international stage.”  Obama has said a Palestinian push for UN recognition would
not resolve their status and would further strain the stalled
talks with  Israel . Obama also plans to meet with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the UN this week.  Arab allies are siding with the Palestinians and say the
U.S. stance could isolate Obama. Saudi Arabia’s Prince Turki al- Faisal, a former ambassador to the U.S. and former head of Saudi
intelligence services, wrote in an opinion piece published Sept.
12 in the New York Times that if the U.S. does not back a
Palestinian statehood bid at the UN, “American influence will
decline further, Israeli security will be undermined and Iran
will be empowered, increasing the chances of another war in the
region.”  He also said Saudi Arabia “would no longer be able to
cooperate with America in the same way it historically has.”  U.S. and Israel  Rhodes said Obama will make clear that, while the U.S. has
an “unbreakable bond” with Israel, Obama also wants to see a
two-state solution. The president’s core message, Rhodes said,
is “if you support Palestinian aspirations, and if you support
a Palestinian state, that the way to accomplish that is through
negotiation with Israel. That’s the only way you’re going to
reach an agreement” on borders, security and other issues.  “There’s no question that there is great frustration at
the lack of progress on the Israeli-Palestinian issue in the
Arab world,” Rhodes said. “We share that frustration.”  The potential confrontation illustrates the difficulty the
U.S. has in influencing events in the  Middle East , according to
Miller.  “We’re neither as admired, feared or respected in this
part of the world as we used to be,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 