-- 
Obama Targets Muni Bond Tax Exemption

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-09-19T18:29:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/obama-targets-muni-bond-tax-exemption-in-plan-to-cut-deficit.html
President  Barack Obama ’s plan to
cut the  budget deficit  repeats his call for curbing the tax
exemption on municipal bonds and would give states a break on
unemployment debts owed the federal government.  The recommendation includes tax overhauls proposed last
week that would limit exemptions for interest on state and local
government bonds for those earning $200,000 or more. While that
may push up municipal borrowing costs, Obama today proposed
giving states that have run out of money for  unemployment
benefits  two more years of interest-free loans.  The ideas are part of a package Obama submitted to a
Congressional panel seeking to cut $1.5 trillion from the
deficit in the next decade. By pressing for tax increases,
mostly aimed at the wealthy, he places himself at odds with
Republican leaders who want to focus on scaling back spending.  Any push to reduce the  tax-exemption  on municipal-bond
interest may also face resistance from local government
officials coping with fiscal pressure from the recession and a
loss of federal stimulus money. California Treasury Bill Lockyer
last week said losing part of the tax break might cost
California as much as $7.7 billion.  Because the interest earnings are exempt from taxation,
investors are willing to accept lower returns, driving down the
cost of public projects. About $32 billion, or 47 percent, of
the tax-exempt interest claimed in 2009 was paid to those
earning more than $200,000, according to the  Internal Revenue
Service .  Tax Break Challenge  The tax break has withstood challenges in Congress amid a
push to rein in the federal deficit. A presidential commission
recommended scrapping it last year as part of an overhaul of the
U.S. tax code, while Senator  Ron Wyden , a Democrat from  Oregon ,
proposed replacing the exemption with a credit. Neither plan
advanced.  The Obama administration has proposed aiding state and
local governments by providing $35 billion to prevent public
employee layoffs, a plan that was reiterated today.  In addition, the president proposed providing assistance to
states that have run out of money to pay for unemployment
benefits because of persistently high joblessness. More than
half of U.S. states have borrowed from the federal government to
pay claims and now collectively owe more than $37 billion,
 according to  the U.S. Labor Department.  The plan offered by Obama today called for forgiving
interest payments on the debt for two years, as well as the
automatic tax increases to be faced by businesses in indebted
states. To shore up the trust funds later, it would increase
wages subject to federal unemployment tax to $15,000 from
$7,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  