-- 
Obama Courts Wealthy New York Donors After Tax Boost Pitch

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-09-20T01:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/obama-courts-wealthy-new-york-donors-after-pitching-tax-boost.html
President  Barack Obama  told a group
of wealthy New York donors who could pay higher taxes under a
plan he announced hours earlier that he is in “a battle for the
hearts and minds of America” and needs their continued support.  “We were able to pull this economy out of a great
depression,” Obama said of the recession, speaking to a
gathering of 60 contributors tonight at a $35,800-per-ticket
event at the New York home of Ralph Schlosstein and Jane Hartley. At the same time, he said unemployment is too high
nationwide and more relief is needed for “ordinary folks.”  Schlosstein is chief executive officer of Evercore Partners
Inc. Hartley is chief executive officer and co-founder of the
economic and political advisory firm Observatory Group LLC.
said.  “We have been able to stabilize the financial system,”
Obama said. “What has been clear over the last 2½ years is that
we have not had a willing partner” to salvage “the American
dream” for those enduring economic hardship. He cited
“irreconcilable differences” with Republicans.  Roger Altman , Evercore’s founder and chairman who was
deputy Treasury secretary under President  Bill Clinton , co-
hosted the event, according to a person familiar with the matter
who wasn’t authorized to discuss it on the record.  Bon Jovi at Event  Donors at the event included the singer Jon Bon Jovi and
Peter Orszag, vice chairman of global banking at Citigroup Inc.
and Obama’s former director of the Office of Management and
Budget, also attended the fundraiser. Professional basketball
player  Carmelo Anthony  of the  New York Knicks  also attended the
event, according to a Democratic official.  Evercore was one of the firms advising AT&T Inc. on its $39
billion takeover of  T-Mobile USA , which the U.S. Justice
Department is challenging on antitrust grounds in a suit filed
Aug. 31.  Earlier today, Obama spoke in the White House Rose Garden
and called for raising taxes on people with incomes of $1
million or more per year as part of a plan for $3 trillion in
deficit cuts over a decade. He previously proposed limiting
deductions for taxpayers in the top income brackets.  The ticket price for tonight’s event includes a $5,000
maximum contribution to Obama’s re-election fund and a $30,800
annual maximum to the  Democratic National Committee .  Obama arrived in New York in the early evening and is to
stay through Sept. 21 to attend a meeting of the United Nations
General Assembly. He plans to attend additional fundraisers
during his stay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in  New York  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in New York at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 