-- 
Drug Spending Targeted in Obama’s $320 Billion Health Cut

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-09-19T18:16:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/obama-s-320-billion-in-health-cuts-targets-u-s-drug-purchases.html
President  Barack Obama ’s deficit-
trimming proposal would cut $320 billion from U.S. health
programs in prescription drug and nursing home spending and by
increasing individuals’ payments for Medicare coverage.  The biggest reduction is $135 billion in drug prices the
government pays companies led by New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
Merck & Co. of  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , for low-income
beneficiaries. The White House released its plan today.  “We will reform Medicare and Medicaid, but we will not
abandon the fundamental commitment that this country has kept
for generations,” Obama said in a speech at the White House. In
total, $248 billion of the savings would come from Medicare,
with another $72 billion from Medicaid.  The health-care proposals are part of a $3 trillion package
of spending cuts and tax increases designed to trim the  U.S.
budget deficit  and extend the solvency of entitlement programs.
Republican leaders in Congress, such as House Speaker  John Boehner , said they wouldn’t accept tax increases and urged a
congressional debt panel to scale back entitlement programs such
as Medicare.  The health policy changes are a mix of old and relatively
new proposals. Obama has previously proposed similar changes for
drugs used by enrollees eligible for both programs.  Republican Support Sought  Other changes would require senior citizens to pay more to
get Medicare services. Obama vowed that any increases there
would only happen when Republicans agree to tax increases.  “The President will veto any bill that takes one dime from
the Medicare benefits seniors rely on without asking the
wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations to pay their fair
share,” according to a description of the plan.  Under Obama’s  proposal , seniors new to the Medicare program
would pay $25 more for physician insurance, starting in 2017.
Another proposal would limit insurance plans that eliminate or
reduce co-payments and deductibles, by adding a premium of about
15 percent to Medicare coverage for people who buy such plans.  The Medicare changes would save the government about $3.9
billion from 2017 to 2021. An additional proposal would have
high-income people in the program pay more in premiums, a $20
billion savings, according to the White House summary.  Nursing homes, including  Sun Healthcare Group Inc. (SUNH)  and
 Skilled Healthcare Group Inc. (SKH) , would also be targeted. Homes
that had high rates of patients readmitted after being
discharged would have their Medicare payments cut by 3 percent
starting in 2015, according to the White House.  Drugmaker Cuts  The drugmaker cuts come from two areas. For low-income
Medicare beneficiaries who get a subsidy to pay for coverage,
makers of brand-name drugs would be asked to give a 23 percent
rebate to the government, said two senior administration
officials who described the program on condition of anonymity.
Generic drugmakers would have to give a 13 percent rebate, the
officials said on a conference call.  Obama’s plan would also reduce to seven years, from 12
years, the window of market exclusivity for biotechnology
drugmakers led by  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)   States would have less money go to their Medicaid programs
from the U.S. under Obama’s proposals.  Of the $72 billion in Medicaid cuts, the largest is a $26.3
billion proposal to limit a state taxation technique used to
boost the share the federal government pays for the program.  Medicaid Changes  Under the tactic, a state taxes hospitals and doctors and
then pays the money back to them in Medicaid reimbursements,
generating more matching dollars from the U.S. government.
Starting in 2015, the Obama proposal would limit that technique.  Two other changes would save $29.5 billion in a decade by
simplifying the formula by which the U.S. pays states for its
share of the program, and by including U.S. Social Security
payments in deciding whether families will be subsidized by the
government in new health insurance markets that start in 2014.  Poor families would take the brunt of Medicaid cuts, said
 Ron Pollack , executive director of consumer health lobbying
group Families USA. “Most of the cuts are not real cost
efficiencies; instead they are merely cost shifts to the
states,” Pollack said in a statement.  Other health-care lobbying groups announced opposition.
AARP, the group for seniors, opposes Obama’s plan because “the
President and Congress should be thinking of ways to restore
middle-class prosperity, not weaken it through cuts,” said
Nancy LeaMond, executive vice president.  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a
drugmaker advocate group opposed the concept, saying federal
drug programs were under budget.  Hospitals oppose the cuts, said Rich Umbdenstock, chief
executive officer of the American Hospital Association.  Obama’s proposal would save $20 billion by having Medicare
pay less money to make up for patients’ non-payment of co-
payments and cost sharing. Instead of paying 70 percent of the
costs, the plan would cut payments to 25 percent. The plan would
trim spending on rural and education subsidies by $15 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 