-- 
Obama Urged to Seek Expanded Powers for Free-Trade Accords by Ally Daschle

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-19T16:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/obama-urged-to-seek-expanded-power-for-free-trade-deals-by-ally-daschle.html
President  Barack Obama  should seek
more power from Congress to negotiate free-trade agreements,
according to a panel that included former Senator Tom Daschle,
an adviser to Obama’s 2008 campaign.  The Council on Foreign Relations trade task force, led by
Daschle and Andrew Card, the White House chief of staff under
Republican President  George W. Bush , called for the
administration to adopt a trade strategy with stepped-up
enforcement of international rules and retraining for workers
hurt by overseas competition. Obama was also urged to seek a
renewal of “fast-track” authority for particular trade deals
to speed action in Congress.  “The  United States  should implement a pro-America trade
policy that brings to a greater number of Americans more of the
benefits of economic growth around the world,” the panel said
in a report released today. “Start by pushing harder for
ratification of the three free-trade agreements with  South
Korea , Colombia and  Panama , still awaiting passage in
Congress.”  Congress is set to start work today on actions that may
clear the way for Obama to send lawmakers the three agreements
signed under Bush. A procedural vote in the Senate is the first
step toward renewing tariff preferences on goods from developing
nations and extending a program that helps workers who lose
their jobs to overseas competition. Passing a bill for the aid,
known as Trade Adjustment Assistance, would meet a condition
Obama set for sending the trade deals to Congress.  Investment Initiative  The council’s panel also recommended that the U.S. adopt a
national investment initiative to create higher-paying jobs and
increase export financing and the government’s role in
supporting overseas sales by U.S. companies.  Obama should ask on a case-by-case basis for fast-track
authority, intended to require that Congress act on trade
agreements within a limited time and without changes after the
president submits them, the group said. The authority expired
after Democrats gained control of Congress under Bush in 2007,
and Obama hasn’t requested its renewal.  While some version of fast-track authority should be made
permanent in the long-run, that would “almost certainly trigger
an all-out ideological struggle over U.S. trade policy” in the
current political climate, the panel said.  The Pacific trade accord the U.S. is negotiating with eight
other nations is an example of the type of accord in which the
U.S. bargaining position would be strengthened by giving the
president fast-track authority, said Daschle, now a senior
policy adviser for law firm DLA Piper U.S. LLP in  Washington .  ‘Case-by-Case’  The president and Congress could agree to extend the
authority “on a case-by-case basis rather than, as some
suggest, more of a cookie-cutter approach to take into account
all of the trade possibilities that would exist over the next
several years,” Daschle said today in an interview.  Daschle urged the U.S. to step up efforts to ensure trade
partners, particularly  China , abide by rules set by the  World
Trade Organization  and bilateral agreements.  Daschle, a South Dakota Democrat, was the party’s Senate
leader from 1995 until his defeat in 2004, and then became
national co-chairman of Obama’s presidential campaign. Nominated
by Obama to be secretary of health and human services, Daschle
withdrew after admitting errors on his U.S. taxes.  Ford, Stern, Lott  Panel members who endorsed the report’s general findings
included former Democratic Representative Harold Ford Jr. of
 Tennessee ;  Andy Stern , president of the  Service Employees
International Union  until last year; and former Senator Trent Lott of  Mississippi , Republican leader from 1996 until 2002.  Lott expressed concern about the nation’s ability to pay
for broader assistance to workers hurt by trade. Stern said he
wasn’t as convinced as other participants of the extent to which
trade has benefited the U.S. and urged that trade policy include
efforts to promote domestic products.  Leo Gerard , president of the United Steelworkers union and
a panelist, didn’t endorse the final report, saying many of the
recommendations reinforce a strategy that has favored corporate
interests at the expense of workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  