-- 
Muni Tax-Exemption Tweak Is Idea Whose Time Hasn’t Come: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-19T00:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/obama-s-muni-tax-exemption-tweak-is-idea-whose-time-hasn-t-yet-come-view.html
We’ve argued that the notoriously
convoluted U.S. tax code requires a comprehensive overhaul that
would phase out distortions. But discrete tweaks to the system
can and often do create more problems than they solve.  President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to reduce the exemption
that high earners can claim on interest for their municipal-bond
investments is a good example: It should be rejected on the
grounds that it only makes sense as part of a sweeping reform.  Politicians have been trying to kill the special tax status
of muni bonds since Andrew Mellon was Treasury secretary almost
100 years ago. But there are a few good reasons the federal
government has wanted to keep the exemption: State and local
governments are a (rightly) powerful constituency; capital
markets are the most efficient way to match investors with local
infrastructure needs, and should be encouraged; and municipal
projects tend to be in the public interest.  The administration justifies the measure -- one of several
intended to pay for the $447 billion  American Jobs Act  -- as a
means of getting the rich to kick in their “fair share.” It’s
true that higher earners are the greatest beneficiaries of this
tax benefit. But significantly limiting the exemption would
probably cause collateral damage in the long run by driving up
interest rates for municipalities to borrow. That would mean
higher taxes, more expensive services and a lower propensity for
local governments to undertake capital projects.  In other words, it won’t just be “millionaires and
billionaires” footing the bill -- it will be everyone.  Effect on Market  How disruptive would this new tax, which the administration
estimates will bring in $30 billion a year, be for the muni
market? A report from Morgan Stanley Research saw little impact,
pointing out that the premiums investors demand to hold munis
over Treasuries “have little direct relationship with tax rates
historically.” A report from Citigroup Global Markets, by
contrast, argued that curbing the exemption would “increase
state and local borrowing costs significantly.” On balance, we
suspect the impact on  interest rates  will be relatively small
initially. (Certainly the proposal has had little effect on the
market since the announcement, according to Bloomberg pricing
data.) Of course, that could change rapidly if historically low
Treasury yields rise and munis start to look less attractive.  Such conflicting analyses suggest one thing: No one really
knows how much this limit on exemptions would affect interest
rates, especially after complexities like the alternative
minimum tax (itself a more urgent problem to fix) are taken into
account. All the more reason not to make hasty changes that
could disrupt a $2.9 trillion market while states and
municipalities are reeling from busted budgets and high
unemployment.  If the aim is to help states build infrastructure and
create jobs, Obama’s proposal starts to look somewhat unserious,
given that it would probably make public-works projects more
expensive. When one considers its chances of passing in Congress
-- approximately 0.0 percent, according to the latest Bloomberg
View calculations -- it starts to look downright disingenuous.  This reform should certainly be an element of a broader
discussion about an overhaul of the  tax code  that eliminates all
or almost all such exemptions and deductions, broadens the tax
base and lowers marginal rates. Until that overhaul is on the
table, not all exemptions are created equal -- and proposals
such as this one, which make it appear that budgetary problems
can be solved merely by making the rich a little less so, are
just distractions.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 