-- 
Obama’s $1.5 Trillion Tax Program Exchanges Conciliation for Confrontation

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-09-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/obama-to-propose-1-5-trillion-in-taxes-over-next-decade-targeting-wealthy.html
President  Barack Obama  set aside
his stance as compromiser-in-chief to champion the populist
cause of “fairness” for the middle class in the struggle over
how to bring down the nation’s budget deficit.  Obama yesterday targeted the rich for $1.5 trillion in tax
increases over the next decade and threatened to veto any cut to
benefits under the Medicare health-insurance plan for the
elderly unless wealthy Americans pay higher taxes.  “This is a more confrontational approach than Obama has
taken for quite a while,” said  Dan Schnur , a campaign adviser
to Republican presidential candidate  John McCain  in 2000. “He’s
spent a lot of time trying to be a conciliator. No more. As of
today, he’s decided to pick a fight with Republicans.”  Obama’s deficit-reduction package is a rebuff to House
Speaker  John Boehner , who last week declared tax increases “off
the table” and urged a 12-member congressional supercommittee
charged with reducing the deficit to focus on scaling back
entitlement programs such as Medicare.  Both sides have pulled back from compromise offers Obama
and Boehner made during unsuccessful negotiations in July
seeking a broad deficit-reduction agreement. In announcing his
proposal, Obama stressed the benefit cuts the middle class would
sustain unless Republicans permit tax increases on the wealthy,
saying he wouldn’t allow “any plan that puts all the burden for
closing our deficit on ordinary Americans.”  “This is not class warfare; it’s math,” Obama said at the
White House yesterday. “The money’s going to have to come from
someplace.”  Long-Term Deficits  Obama coupled the call for tax increases with spending cuts
that he said would reduce long-term deficits by $3 trillion
beyond the $1 trillion that was agreed to as part of a deal to
raise the U.S. debt ceiling.  The deficit plan would reduce federal employee benefits for
civilian and military personnel, cut  farm subsidies , impose a
$100-per flight fee on corporate jets and could end Saturday
mail delivery.  Obama seeks $248 billion in Medicare cuts, including
reductions in payments to health-care providers, and $72 billion
in savings from the Medicaid state-federal health program for
the poor. Another $1.1 trillion would come in savings from
winding down the wars in Afghanistan and  Iraq , officials said.  The Buffett Rule  Obama included a proposal to overhaul the  tax code  based on
what he called “the Buffett rule” after  Warren Buffett , the
81-year-old chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. The rule would eliminate “special lower rates for
the wealthy” and require people with incomes of $1 million or
more to pay at least the same percentage in taxes as middle-
income Americans, he said.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview that there are multiple approaches to
enacting the Buffett rule, which he called “a simple, basic
principle” that should guide efforts to rewrite the tax code.  Republicans condemned the president’s plan.  “Veto threats, a massive tax hike, phantom savings and
punting on entitlement reform is not a recipe for economic or
job growth -- or even meaningful deficit reduction,” Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said in a statement.  “Pitting one group of Americans against another is not
leadership,” Boehner of  Ohio  said in a statement. The president
“has not made a serious contribution” to the deliberations of
the supercommittee, he said.  Romney Criticism  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , a contender for
the Republican Party nomination to face Obama next year,
criticized the president’s plan as a threat to  job creation .  “President Obama’s plan to raise taxes will have a
crushing impact on economic growth,” Romney said in a
statement. “This is yet another indication that President Obama
has no clue how to bring our economy back.”  The administration and congressional Republicans are at
odds over how to re-ignite the economy, drive down unemployment
and grapple with the nation’s long-term deficit. Administration
forecasters project the economy will grow a sluggish 1.7 percent
this year and the jobless rate will average 9.1 percent in 2011
and show little change in 2012, when the presidential election
takes place.  To deal with the deficit, Obama won’t support any increase
in the eligibility age for Medicare, as he did while trying to
negotiate a broad  deficit-reduction  package with Boehner in
July, said administration officials who briefed reporters on
condition of anonymity before the president spoke.  Benefits Firewall  Obama’s combative tone aside, some budget analysts said
they saw elements of the package that could be starting points
for a negotiated agreement. It includes calls for Medicare and
Medicaid cuts that breach the firewall Democrats have long
maintained around federal entitlement benefits. Those benefit
cuts would be contingent on a tax increase for the wealthy.  That’s a first for the president in formally proposing
benefit cuts and is intended to put the onus on Republican
leaders and the six party members of the supercommittee to
respond with a compromise on tax increases, said  Bob Bixby ,
president of the nonpartisan Concord Coalition in Arlington,
Virginia.  “The political significance outweighs the dollar
figures,” Bixby said. “It’s an important breakthrough.”  Under Obama’s proposal, seniors new to the Medicare program
would pay $25 more for physician insurance, starting in 2017.
Another proposal would limit insurance plans that eliminate or
reduce co-payments and deductibles, by adding a premium of about
15 percent to Medicare coverage for people who buy such plans.  The Medicare changes would save the government about $3.9
billion from 2017 to 2021. An additional proposal would have
high-income people in the program pay more in premiums, a $20
billion savings, according to the White House summary.  Schnur, now director of the Unruh Institute of Politics at
the University of  Southern California , said Obama may be
“keeping his options open” on a deal.  “His first choice is almost certainly to get an agreement,
but being able to blame Republicans if there wasn’t isn’t a bad
second option,” Schnur said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  