-- 
Ocado Slides After Saying Profitability Will Miss Estimates

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-19T09:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/ocado-slides-after-saying-profitability-will-miss-estimates-1-.html
Ocado Group Plc (OCDO) , the biggest U.K.
online-only grocer, fell the most in more than eight months in
London trading after saying profitability will be “slightly
lower” than expected and reporting a slowdown in sales growth.  The shares dropped as much as 18.8 pence, or 14 percent, to
114.9 pence, the steepest intraday decline since Feb. 11.  Ocado said it increased investment to improve customer
services such as the speed of delivery, getting 95.5 percent of
orders delivered on time or early. The spending weighed on
margins, while sales growth slowed to 17 percent in the third
quarter from 21 percent in the first half, hurt by insufficient
capacity at its main warehouse in Hatfield, southern  England .  Investors may have to wait until next year for sales growth
to return to “the mid-20s levels again,” said Paul Diamond, an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. He cut his full-year margin
estimate to 5.5 percent from 5.7 percent, based on earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. The range
of estimates is 5.2 percent to 5.6 percent, Chief Financial
Officer Andrew Bracey told journalists.  Ocado shares were down 13 percent at 116.7 pence as of
10:22 a.m., extending this year’s decline to 35 percent and
cutting the market value to 652 million pounds ($1.03 billion).  The online retailer is targeting higher sales growth in the
remaining weeks of the financial year, Chief Executive Officer
Tim Steiner said. The outlook depends on capacity expansion and
 consumer confidence , which he described as “fragile.”  ‘Capacity Constrained’  “We remain capacity constrained but growing,” Steiner
said on a conference call. “We hope to continue to alleviate
constraints and start doing that at a slightly faster rate.”  Ocado  will spend 80 million pounds in the next two years to
boost distribution capability as it struggles to cope with
increasing demand. The grocer expects to increase capacity to
140,000 orders per week in the fourth quarter, from 110,945 in
the prior period, with a long-term goal of 180,000 orders per
week at its existing customer fulfilment center.  The CEO said he’s noticed “no impact” from the start of
an online delivery service by Waitrose Ltd. within the M25
orbital motorway, Ocado’s core market. Most of the products sold
by Ocado are supplied by the upscale supermarket chain.  About 99 percent of deliveries matched what was ordered by
customers in the latest quarter, Ocado said.  The average basket size fell 0.1 percent to 0.2 percent in
the period, showing that “customers are actually trading down
within their baskets to compensate for underlying inflation”
which is running at about 2 percent, Steiner said. Ocado is
matching  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ’s prices and has introduced a Savings Pass
offering 10 percent discounts on hundreds of products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Jarvis  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net  