-- 
Oil-Tanker Demand Growth Drops to Zero, Platou CEO Anker Says

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-09-19T07:43:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/oil-tanker-demand-growth-drops-to-zero-platou-ceo-anker-says.html
Growth in demand for supertankers
that deliver about a fifth of the world’s oil dropped to zero as
slowing economies in  Europe  and the U.S. curbed shipments,
according to Peter Anker, chief executive officer of RS Platou
ASA, Norway’s biggest shipbroker.  “The tanker market is extremely weak,” Anker said in a
Sept. 14 interview, adding Platou had earlier forecast a 4
percent expansion for the vessels in 2011. “Right now the
balance between supply and demand continues to worsen.”  The U.S. is importing the smallest amount of Persian Gulf
crude in 14 years as demand weakens and its domestic output
climbs, signaling that tankers on the route will lose money for
at least another year. The nation bought 1.7 million barrels a
day from  Saudi Arabia  and six other  Persian Gulf states  in the
first half, the least since 1997, according to the latest
Department of Energy data.  Very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, which carry 2 million-
barrel cargoes of oil, are losing money for Middle East
shipments to both the U.S. and  Japan , according to data from the
 Baltic Exchange  in London that don’t adjust for vessels slowing
down to cut costs.  West Africa Offices  Platou plans to increase its headcount almost 40 percent
and is considering listing its shares, by the second quarter of
next year at the earliest, as it seeks to capture more of the
shipping and offshore market.  The shipbroker aims to increase its staff to 450 to 500
people by the end of next year, from 360, Anker said, as it
starts an investment banking office in  New York  this month and
also may open more offices in West Africa. The 75-year-old
company has also expanded via acquisitions including shipbroker
Stewart Group Ltd. It will add 30 to 40 people to its asset
management unit over the next 12 to 18 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  