-- 
Crude Oil Falls to Three-Week Low on Euopean Debt, OPEC Outlook on Demand

-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-09-20T06:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/oil-drops-near-two-week-low-on-signals-demand-growth-slowing.html
Oil traded near the lowest price in
three weeks in  New York  after  Standard & Poor’s  cut Italy’s
credit rating, stoking concern that demand for fuel will falter
as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens.  Futures fell as much as 0.7 percent after sliding 2.6
percent yesterday. Italy’s credit rating was reduced one level
by Standard & Poor’s on concern that weakening economic growth
and a “fragile” government mean the nation won’t be able to
reduce the euro region’s second-largest debt burden. Fiscal
troubles in Europe and high unemployment in the U.S. are curbing
growth in global oil-demand, OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla El- Badri said yesterday in Dubai.  “The downgrade further cements the demand destruction,”
said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of Commodity Broking
Services Pty in Sydney. “It’s very tough for crude going
anywhere near $90 a barrel.”  Oil for October delivery dropped as much as 59 cents and
was at $85.60 a barrel at 2:05 p.m. Singapore time in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It fell $2.26 to
$85.70 a barrel yesterday, the lowest settlement since Aug. 26.
The contract will expire today. The more actively traded
November future was at $85.81 a barrel. New York oil has dropped
6.5 percent this year.  Brent crude  for November settlement was at $109.10 a
barrel, down 4 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
Exchange. The contract yesterday fell 2.7 percent to $109.14 a
barrel. The European benchmark future was at a premium of $23.60
to the November price of West Texas Intermediate, compared with
a record settlement of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Saudi Output  Oil prices  are unlikely to rise from current levels by year
end, El-Badri told Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil exporter, cut exports
and increased inventories in July, a sign that demand worldwide
may be slowing. The kingdom pumped 9.6 million barrels a day,
down 2 percent from June, the Joint Organization Data Initiative
reported Sept. 18. The output was lower than earlier estimates
by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the
 International Energy Agency .  The nation had 239.8 million barrels of oil in storage
within its territory in July, compared with 236.5 million
barrels in June, according to JODI’s website. The association is
supervised by the Riyadh-based International Energy Forum and
compiles data supplied by member governments.  Technical Analysis   Oil in New York is no longer in the upward-sloping trend 
that was in place for the past six weeks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bottom of the so-called channel for
crude is about $87.42 a barrel today. Investors tend to sell
contracts when prices breach technical-support levels.  “We could see the commencement of a move that can see
crude back down at $80 a barrel, if not lower,” Barratt said.
“That upward trend channel was tested and finally broke.”  Futures rose as much as 0.5 percent earlier today as
investors speculated that U.S. prices fell too far amid
shrinking stockpiles in the world’s biggest crude consumer.  U.S. crude oil supplies probably declined to an eight-month
low last week as refineries cut deliveries with the start of a
maintenance cycle, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Stockpiles
fell 1.5 million barrels, or 0.4 percent, to 344.9 million in
the seven days ended Sept. 16, according to the median of nine
analyst estimates before a weekly Energy Department report
tomorrow.  Winter Demand  “Winter may bring increasing demand for crude oil and fuel
oil,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity-derivatives sales manager
at Newedge Group in  Tokyo , who expects oil to trade between $83
to $90 a barrel in the short term. “The main driver of
financial and commodity markets is the European situation, which
will be watched.”  Greece  will talk today with its main creditors after a
“productive” round of discussions in a teleconference with
 International Monetary Fund  and European Union officials
yesterday aimed at staving off default, the Athens-based finance
ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  The European Union and the U.S. accounted for 38 percent of
global oil demand last year, according to BP Plc’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  