-- 
Homebuilders Targeted Along With Hotels in U.S. Pay Inquiry

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-09-19T20:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/homebuilders-targeted-by-u-s-along-with-hotels-over-pay-abuses.html
The Obama administration and 11
states will join an effort to crack down on companies such as
homebuilders, hotels and restaurants that classify employees as
independent contractors to avoid paying overtime.  The Labor Department and states agreed to share information
filed by companies as the department finds and prosecutes
companies that misidentify workers in order to skirt paying
 unemployment benefits  or federal taxes, according to Mike Wald,
an agency spokesman.  Misclassifying employees “makes it harder, especially for
low-wage workers, to put food on the table,” Labor Secretary
Hilda Solis said today on a conference call with reporters.  The Obama administration is stepping up enforcement of
wage-and-hour laws, which set minimum pay and define positions
where overtime pay is required, targeting industries such as
residential construction, hotel, restaurant, janitorial, health-
and day-care, the department said in a statement.  “We are actively looking at those industries that employ
the most vulnerable workers and that engage in business
practices, such as misclassifying employees as independent
contractors, that result in violations of minimum wage and
overtime laws,” according to the e-mailed statement.  PulteGroup Inc., the nation’s largest homebuilder, received
a request from the Labor Department for information, which is
under review, said Jim Zeume, a spokesman for the Bloomfield
Hills, Michigan-based company. He referred questions on the
issue to the Washington-based Leading Builders of America,
representing 19 companies. Ken Gear, a group spokesman, didn’t
return phone calls seeking comment.  $2.72 Billion Cost  A Government Accountability Office report from 2009 found
misclassification of workers cost the government $2.72 billion
in 2006. A 2000 Labor Department report estimated that as many
as 30 percent of employers misclassify workers to exempt them
from overtime and other wage laws.  U.S. laws on classifying workers to set wages are vague,
said  Randy Johnson , a senior vice president at the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, the nation’s largest business group. The Labor
Department and the IRS have different tests for violations of
these laws, he said today in an interview.  “The department needs to be very careful that it is only
going after true violators of the law rather than those with
whom there is a disagreement of the law,” he said. “If they
are just exploiting vagueness in the law, it’s regulatory
overreach.”  Agreements with the states may subject companies to more
than one fine for the same violation. In the past, a company
might settle with a state agency for an improper payments of
unemployment-insurance benefits. Under the accord, states now
will share information about a company with the Labor
Department, which would seek fines and penalties under federal
law. The violations could also be reported to the  Internal
Revenue Service , which could seek unpaid taxes from the company.  Connecticut , Hawaii,  Illinois ,  Maryland ,  Massachusetts ,
 Minnesota ,  Missouri , Montana,  New York , Utah and  Washington  have
agreed to work with the Labor Department.  The Wall Street Journal previously reported the agency was
examining pay practices in the homebuilding industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  