-- 
Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Declines to Three-Month Low

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-19T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-declines-to-three-month-low.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
fell to a three-month low in September as prospective buyer
traffic, sales and purchase expectations declined.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment index dropped to 14 from 15 in the prior month, data
from the Washington-based group showed today. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected no change in the measure
from August, according to the median forecast. Readings below 50
mean more respondents said conditions were poor.  Unemployment above 9 percent, stagnant incomes and slumping
stock prices are hurting confidence and may be dissuading many
Americans from purchasing new houses even with  mortgage rates  at
record lows. Builders are also competing with a surfeit of
unsold properties that has dragged down existing-home prices.  “Many consumers are simply unwilling or unable to move
forward with a home purchase in today’s uncertain economic
climate,”  David Crowe , chief economist at NAHB, said in a
statement. “The broader picture remains fairly bleak due to the
weak economy and job market.”  Estimates of the 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from 13 to 16.  The gauge, which was first published in January 1985,
reached a record low of 8 in January 2009 and averaged 54 in the
five years before the recession began in December 2007.  The builders group’s index of current single-family home
sales eased to 14 in September from 15 in the previous two
months, the report showed. A measure of sales expectations for
the next six months dropped to 17 this month from 19. The gauge
of buyer traffic decreased to 11, the lowest level this year,
from 13 last month.  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  By Region  Builders in three of the four regions saw a drop in
confidence this month. The index fell to 15 from 17 in both the
Northeast and the South. The gauge dropped to 12 in the West
from 15. In the Midwest, the measure rose to 11 from 10.  “With all of the economic turmoil, both domestic and
international, there’s not much that points to an improving
housing market at any point in the near future,”  Ara Hovnanian ,
chairman and chief executive officer of Hovnanian Enterprises
Inc., said in call with analysts on Sept. 8. “Our internal
business plan assumes market conditions do not improve.”  New single-family homes sold in July for a median price of
$222,000, Commerce Department data show. The median price of an
existing home that month was $174,000, according to the National
Association of Realtors. The gap between the values has averaged
$61,157 so far this year, the widest since at least 2000.  Bernanke on Housing  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that while
housing has been a driver of recoveries after most U.S.
recessions since World War II, the rate of new home construction
has remained at less than a third of its pre-crisis level. He
cited an overhang of distressed and foreclosed properties, tight
credit conditions for builders and potential homebuyers, and
ongoing concerns by potential borrowers and lenders about
continued price declines.  “The low level of construction has implications not only
for builders but for providers of a wide range of goods and
services related to housing and homebuilding,” Bernanke said in
Aug. 26 speech in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . “The weakness of the
housing sector has in turn had adverse effects on financial
markets and on the flow of credit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 