-- 
Hong Kong Builders Are Set to Accelerate New Project Sales as Demand Cools

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-09-20T02:18:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/hong-kong-developers-set-to-accelerate-sales-of-new-projects.html
Hong Kong  developers may have to
accelerate sales of new housing projects even as buying
sentiment wanes amid the global equity rout and as the city
intensifies efforts to curb property prices.  Builders including  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd. and  Sun Hung
Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  may begin selling new projects including the
La Splendeur and The Wings in the Tseung Kwan O district in the
city’s northeast this month, according to Wong Leung-sing, a
research director at Centaline Property Agency Ltd. The
developers, along with others in the city, are expected to offer
as many as 2,700 apartments this month, he said.  Hong Kong’s home sales have slowed on concern the city will
slip into a recession. Real estate prices fell for the first
time in seven months in July after the government introduced new
housing curbs in June, while banks accelerated the increase in
 mortgage rates  last week to the highest in 28 months.  “Developers are facing a dilemma here,” Wong said. “On
one hand, if they don’t sell now, things may get even worse. On
the other hand, rushing all those units out won’t guarantee them
good prices.”  Cheung Kong, the developer controlled by  Li Ka-shing , Hong
Kong’s richest man, has received more than 1,100 bids for the
590 apartments it plans to start selling this week at the La
Splendeur, a joint development with MTR Corp. and Nan Fung
Development Ltd., according to Anita Tsui, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman for Cheung Kong. The project will have a total of
1,168 units when it’s completed.  Shares Fall  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the city’s seven
biggest developers including Cheung Kong and Sun Hung Kai, fell
1.5 percent at 10:18 a.m. local time, bringing its loss this
year to 23 percent. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has fallen 18
percent over the same period.  Sun Hung Kai hasn’t said when it will start sales at The
Wings, a luxury apartment project with 1,028 units. Nan Fung may
begin sales of Winfield, a redevelopment project with 84 units
in the Happy Valley district, Centaline’s Wong said.  Sun Hung Kai and Cheung Kong, the city’s two biggest
developers, have spent a combined HK$33 billion ($4.2 billion)
buying sites from the government in Hong Kong this year,
according to  Lands Department  record.  ‘Not Cheap’  “Developers who have spent a lot of money buying land over
the last year now need to replenish their cash reserves,” said
Simon Lo,  executive director  for research and advisory at
Colliers International. “To bring in cash, the choice is either
offloading apartments or borrowing from banks, and borrowing
from banks is not cheap these days.”  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  and  BOC Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. (2388) , the
city’s two biggest mortgage lenders, said Sept. 16 they are
raising mortgage rates linked to the city’s interbank rate.  The latest increase is the fifth this year and mortgage
rates have risen about 2 percentage points in the last six
months, according to  Andrew Lawrence , an analyst at Barclays
Capital Plc. Hong Kong’s home prices may fall as much as 30
percent over the next two years, he said in a report this week.  The city’s home prices have risen more than 70 percent
since the beginning of 2009 on record low mortgage rates, an
influx of buyers from other parts of  China  and a lack of new
supply. That prompted the government to introduce measures
including higher mortgage down-payment requirements and
accelerate public land sales.  Lower Than Estimates  Three sites were sold at prices lower than analysts’
estimates at government auctions in the past two months, while
the number of home transactions fell for an eighth straight
month in August.  The government plans to sell at least seven more sites from
October through December by tender, Carrie Lam, the city’s
secretary for development, told reporters last week.  Sales of existing homes at the city’s 10 biggest private
developments fell 50 percent to 15 deals over the weekend ended
Sept. 18, compared with a week earlier, according to  Midland
Holdings Ltd. (1200) , Hong Kong’s biggest publicly traded realtor.  “The impending launch of new projects drew attention away
from the second-hand market,” said Sammy Po, a director at
Midland. “Potential buyers are also deterred by the higher
mortgage rates and the uncertain economic environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  