-- 
OPEC’s $1T Cash Quiets Poor as $100 Oil Fills Coffers

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-09-20T16:43:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/opec-s-1t-cash-quiets-poor-on-longest-ever-100-oil.html
Saudi Arabia will spend $43 billion
on its poorer citizens and religious institutions. Kuwaitis are
getting free food for a year. Civil servants in  Algeria  received
a 34 percent pay rise. Desert cities in the United Arab Emirates
may soon enjoy uninterrupted electricity.  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries members are
poised to earn an unprecedented $1 trillion this year, according
to the U.S. Energy Department, as the group’s benchmark oil
measure exceeded $100 a barrel for the longest period ever. They
are promising to plow record amounts into public and social
programs after pro-democracy movements overthrew rulers in
Tunisia, Egypt and Libya and spread to Yemen and  Syria .  Unlike past booms, when  Abu Dhabi  bought English soccer
club Manchester City and Qatar acquired a stake in luxury
carmaker Porsche SE, Gulf nations pledged $150 billion in
additional spending this year on their citizens. They will need
to keep U.S. benchmark West  Texas  Intermediate crude oil at more
than $80 a barrel to afford their promises, according to Bank of
America Corp.  “A sharp increase in spending to accommodate social
pressures has averted potential disquiet over governance in most
countries, though in the longer-term economic reforms will be
needed to buoy private-sector growth and job creation,” Jean- Michel Saliba, a London-based economist at Bank of America, said
in an e-mail Sept. 8. “Without the social spending, Gulf
protests would possibly move the nations toward constitutional
monarchy.”  Arab Spring  OPEC’s basket of crudes, a weighted average of the group’s
main export grades, has been trading at above $100 since Feb.
21. The basket price was $108.68 a barrel yesterday, while WTI
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange closed at $85.70. WTI gained
0.6 percent to $86.20 a barrel as of 5:41 p.m. in  London .  Tunisia’s ouster of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
January set up the so-called Arab Spring, as protests led to the
end of Hosni Mubarak’s 30-year reign in  Egypt  and threatened the
Assad family’s hold on Syria.  Libya’s rebel council met Sept. 19 to form a cabinet after
seven months of fighting to end Muammar Qaddafi’s 42-year rule.
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh is under pressure to step
down after 33 years running the Arab world’s poorest country.
Unemployment is at 11 percent in the  Middle East  and North
 Africa  and as high as 22 percent in Algeria, according to the
United Nations Development Program.  Religious Funding  Across Yemen’s northern border, in Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s
biggest member is funding housing, salary increases and the
creation of 60,000 new jobs at the interior ministry, according
to royal decrees announced on  March 18 . At least 1 billion
riyals ($267 million) has been allocated to the Saudi Ministry
of Islamic affairs and The Commission for the Promotion of
Virtue and Prevention of Vice after clerics backed a ban on
domestic protests.  The religious establishment’s new funds include 500 million
riyals to restore mosques and 300 million riyals to support
Islamic call and guidance offices, according to the decrees.
Money is being spent on installing devices in public squares,
markets and schools to deliver audio and video broadcasts with
“advice and moral lessons,” the Commission’s President
 Muhammad al-Eidy  said in May.  “They probably feel like they’ve got to do a lot more
spending this time and they are focusing on social spending,
whereas previous investments were business or private-sector
driven,” said Gabriel Sterne, associate director in London at
Exotix, an investment bank, and a former economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  Bank of England .  $1 Trillion Revenue  OPEC will need WTI at above $80 a barrel to maintain the
increased social spending because the costs of Persian Gulf
budget obligations have more than doubled since 2006 to $77,
with  Saudi Arabia  needing an average $82, according to Deutsche
Bank AG. OPEC’s basket price at more than $100 puts it on course
to earn $1.01 trillion this year, the U.S. government said.  During the oil rally that peaked in 2008 before the onset
of the global financial crisis, Abu Dhabi, holder of most of the
U.A.E.’s crude reserves, pledged $22 billion to construct Masdar
City, powered by renewable energy that would rest on concrete
blocks under which electric driverless vehicles would transport
residents. Qatar began building an academic hub, attracting
American institutions such as Georgetown University in
 Washington  and Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas,
with funding from a government-run foundation.  Shoring Up Support  This time, rulers are shoring up domestic support.
Demonstrations in Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s biggest
economy, failed to take off in March as citizens were offered
extra money for housing. Government employees had their salaries
increased 15 percent and got two months extra pay. Kuwaitis
received 1,000 dinars ($3,664) and free food for 13 months,
state news agency KUNA said in January. Earlier this month,
Qatar’s crown prince Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani ordered 30
billion riyals ($8.2 billion) in civil servant salary increases
and pension-fund allowances.  “As soon as the government announced handouts, people went
out and bought cars,” said John Stadwick, managing director of
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Middle East operations. Sales in Saudi
Arabia climbed as much as 48 percent a month since April,
compared with a decline in February and March, he said.  Gulf nations are also aiding neighboring Sunni monarchies
to prop up dynasties that have ruled parts of the Middle East
for centuries. They pledged $20 billion for Oman and Bahrain to
fend off protests and invited Morocco and Jordan to join the
six-member Gulf Cooperation Council which will include economic
assistance. In addition, newly democratic Egypt received $20
billion from Qatar and $4 billion from Saudi Arabia as the Gulf
seeks to retain influence in the most populous Arab nation.  OPEC Spending Rises  Of OPEC’s 12 members, nine increased 2011 budgets and of
the remaining three, only  Nigeria  amended its budget lower,
while the U.A.E. doesn’t disclose its public spending. Nigeria,
Africa’s biggest oil producer, set up a $1 billion wealth fund
in May split into an infrastructure fund, a future generations
fund and a stabilization fund. Algeria’s cabinet approved a 25
percent budget increase to pay for the salary raise and food
subsidies amid protests that have ended 19 years of emergency
rule and led to a review of the election law.  OPEC decided against raising oil supplies at its June
meeting even as  Libya ’s conflict curbed exports. Output of about
30 million barrels a day lags behind the 31.3 million barrels
the world needs from the region in the third quarter, according
to the  International Energy Agency . Half of Saudi Arabia’s 8
percent increase in June production to 9.7 million barrels a day
was used in its own  power plants  as domestic demand reached a
record, data from the Paris-based IEA showed.  Cut Production  “Saudi Arabia will cut back after its summer surge,” said
 Leo Drollas , London-based chief economist at the Centre for
Global Energy Studies, the researcher founded by former Saudi
Oil Minister Zaki Yamani. “If it doesn’t trim now then prices
might lurch downwards on lower demand, and it needs a minimum
basket price of $90 for what it wants to do this year.”  Oil in New York has dropped 25 percent since its April 29
high of $113.93 on concern demand will fall as Europe grapples
with its debt crisis and unemployment in the U.S. hovers at 9
percent. WTI averaged $92.64 in the past year.  OPEC Basket  The OPEC basket will stay above $100 a barrel for the rest
of this year, according to forecasts from five banks and
consultants, including Barclays Plc and Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. Its previous record period above this level was from April 7
to Sept. 8, 2008. OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,
Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the
 United Arab Emirates  and Venezuela.  Should they travel to one of Tripoli’s top hotels
overlooking the bay, leaders of OPEC nations would be reminded
of Qaddafi’s downfall. His image now adorns a doormat at the
front entrance of the Radisson Blu Al Mahary Hotel on Al Fatah
Street, an ultimate sign of disrespect in the Arab world.  Not all the spending initiatives work right away, even
though citizens praise the changes.  Abu Dhabi plans to provide more services to poorer citizens
by focusing on communities like Ras Al Khaimah after academics
and journalists signed an online petition calling for the
country’s Federal National Council, an advisory body with no
executive authority, to be chosen by universal suffrage and
given more power.  Less than a week after Mubarak’s ouster in Egypt, the city
of 250,000 people got a visit from Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. Learning they lacked electricity,
Sheikh Mohammed, who is next in line to the nation’s presidency,
summoned a utility executive who arrived within two hours by
helicopter. “Give them power now,” he ordered.  Pro-Democracy Activists  Sheikh Mohammed “sat with the people and listened to our
needs,” said Yousuf al-Nuaimi, chairman of the Chamber of
Commerce in Ras Al Khaimah, one of seven U.A.E. cities whose per
capita income is 45 times less than Abu Dhabi. The Crown Prince
promised electricity to the northern sheikhdom, home to one of
five pro-democracy activists arrested this year, from a plant in
nearby Fujairah and 1 billion dirhams ($270 million) for road
and housing improvements, al-Nuaimi said.  Seven months after the visit, Ras Al Khaimah is still
waiting for power but residents don’t blame the crown prince.  “Abu Dhabi is not the problem,” al-Nuaimi said. “The
Federal Water and Electricity Authority is the problem. They
need to do the connection but they are not. I hope the next step
will be for Abu Dhabi to take over FEWA so that we can enjoy the
power they promised us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  