-- 
Orascom Telecom Rises Most in 6-Months on Djezzy Price Bets

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-09-19T13:30:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/orascom-telecom-jumps-most-in-16-months-on-djezzy-valuation-bets.html
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , North
Africa’s biggest mobile-network operator, climbed the most in
almost six months on speculation the company’s  Algeria  unit was
independently valued in line with its demands.  The shares of the Cairo-based company surged 7.2 percent,
the most since March 27, to 3.44 Egyptian pounds at the 2:30
p.m. close in Cairo. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  gained 1.9
percent.  “Market chatter is that the independent financial adviser
hired by the Algerian government has valued Djezzy at $7
billion,” said Ashraf Akhnoukh, senior equity sales trader at
Cairo-based Commercial International Brokerage. “It goes
without saying that this is good news for the stock.”  Algeria’s Djezzy has been the center of a dispute between
Orascom, its parent company, and the Algerian government, which
said it wants to buy it. Orascom founder  Naguib Sawiris  said
last year an acceptable price for Djezzy is more than $7.8
billion, more than twice what the Algerian government said it
was willing to pay.  Egyptian Co. for Mobile Services, the Arab country’s
second-biggest mobile-phone company, jumped 8.6 percent, the
biggest gain since March 28, to 96.07 pounds. Orascom Telecom
holds a 20 percent stake in the company, known as Mobinil, as of
March 31, according to Bloomberg data.  “Mobinil is benefiting from news of Djezzy’s valuation,
which may be raising valuations for telecom companies across the
region,” said Tamer Nigm, head of sales and trading at Cairo-
based Watheeqa Securities Brokerage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  