-- 
Total Seeks Buyers for North Sea Oil Assets

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-09-19T23:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/total-seeks-buyers-for-three-packages-of-north-sea-oil-assets.html
Total SA (FP) ,  France ’s largest oil
company, is seeking buyers for three packages of assets in the
U.K.’s North Sea that it doesn’t operate, including its stake in
the Alba field.  Total is working with Scotia Waterous Inc. to assess bid
interest and proposals are due on Oct. 27, according to Scotia’s
website. The sale may fetch as much as 500 million pounds ($782
million), said two people with knowledge of the matter who
declined to be identified as the details are private.  The properties also include stakes in the Mungo-Monan
fields and the Armada area. Paris-based Total has been disposing
of assets it doesn’t operate and last year sold an 11.5 percent
stake in the Nelson development. At the same time it’s investing
in other parts of the  North Sea  including developing the second
phase of the West Franklin field and the Laggan/Tormore natural-
gas fields off the Shetland Islands.  “As part of our global, dynamic asset management we might
consider selling some non-operated exploration and production
assets in the U.K.,” Total spokeswoman Phenelope Semavoine said
yesterday.  The Paris-based company joins other large  oil companies  in
seeking to sell mature North Sea assets, The biggest seller is
BP Plc, seeking buyers for about $1 billion in fields in the
southern North Sea. ConocoPhillips has announced it’s selling as
much as $1 billion of fields and Exxon Mobil Corp. has said it
is looking to divest U.K. assets.  Decomissioning Costs  The sale of fields has been hampered by the cost of
dismantling decades-old platforms. U.K. law holds sellers
responsible for decommissioning if the buyer can’t pay, leading
sellers to demand letters of credit for the potential costs and
adding to the expense of deals. A increased tax on production
imposed in the last U.K. budget has also scuppered deals,
according to industry group Oil & Gas U.K.  The fields for sale include a 13 percent stake in Alba, a
12 percent holding in the Mungo-Monan fields, 3.4 percent in the
ETAP facilities and various holdings in the Greater Armada area
including Armada, Everest, Maria and Seymour fields, according
to Scotia’s website.  The French  oil company  produced 207,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day last year in the U.K., the fourth biggest
producing region for the company after  Norway ,  Nigeria  and the
 United Arab Emirates , according to the annual report.  The French oil company may slow the pace of its
acquisitions after announcing $11 billion of the deals this
year, Chief Financial Officer Patrick de la Chevardiere said on
July 29.  It purchased 12 percent of OAO Novatek, the second-largest
Russian gas company, and agreed to buy 60 percent of SunPower
Corp., the U.S.’s No. 2 solar-panel maker this year. It sold a
stake in a Spanish oil refiner and the Gassled pipeline network
in Norway, and plans to offload the U.K.’s Lindsey refinery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  