-- 
Lloyds Banking’s Finance Director Quits to Join Friends Life

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-19T15:42:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/lloyds-says-cfo-tookey-to-step-down.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  Finance
Director Tim Tookey will leave the U.K.’s largest mortgage
lender to join Friends Life, the insurer being built by
 Resolution Ltd. (RSL) ,  Clive Cowdery ’s acquisition firm.  Tookey, who joined Lloyds in April 2006, will continue in
his current role until February, the London-based bank said in a
statement today. He will join Friends Life as chief financial
officer, Resolution said in a separate statement.  He’s the second Lloyds executive to be hired by Cowdery’s
firm this year after Andy Briggs quit Scottish Widows, the
bank’s life-insurance division, to become chief executive
officer of Friends Life. Tookey, 49, previously worked with
Briggs at  Prudential Plc. (PRU)   “Tookey did not seem to complement Horta-Osório’s style
and it is thought he did not agree with the aggressive targets
set for 2014,”  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  said in a note today. “The fact
that Tookey is thought to have begun discussions with Friends
Life just last week, it does suggest the divisions were quite
deep,” the note said.  “There’s been absolutely no disagreement on strategy
between Antonio and I,” Tookey said during a call with
reporters today. “I’ve greatly enjoyed developing the strategy
with Antonio, bringing it to the market at the end of June and
being part of the team that’s now focused on delivering it.”  ‘Obvious Candidate’  Antonio Lorenzo, former finance director of Banco Santander
U.K. Plc, who joined Lloyds as director or wealth and
international on March 1, is the “obvious candidate” to
replace Tookey,  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Evolution Securities,
wrote in a note to investors today.  Lloyds dropped 6.7 percent to 33.42 pence at the close of
London trading, the biggest decline in the FTSE 350 Index of
Britain’s five biggest banks. Resolution fell 2.5 percent to 246
pence for a market value of 3.5 billion pounds ($5.5 billion).  Resolution, led by former Financial Services Authority CEO
John Tiner, plans to sell Friends Life to a trade buyer or in an
initial public offering by 2014. The firm is a combination of
 Friends Provident , Axa SA’s U.K. life insurance division and
Bupa Health Assurance Ltd.  “We wanted a CFO with significant transaction and capital-
markets experience,” Briggs said on the call. “Tim clearly has
that. I can’t think of many CFOs in the U.K. market with more
 capital market  and investor relations experience over the last
three years.”  Sandy Leitch will step down as chairman of Scottish Widows
at the end of this year, Lloyds said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  