-- 
Toyota Says U.S. Retail Sales to Rise in October After Quake

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-09-19T20:13:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/toyota-says-u-s-retail-sales-to-rise-in-october-after-quake.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s largest
automaker, expects to start reversing a U.S. sales slide that
began in May after  Japan ’s earthquake as vehicle production
rebounds and deliveries of the new Camry sedan expand.  Wholesale orders for Toyota brand cars and trucks are back
to normal this month, and vehicle inventory is rising,  Bob Carter , group vice president for U.S. sales, said in an
interview. Toyota’s last U.S. sales gain was in April. The
company’s U.S. market share through August fell to 12.7 percent
from 15.2 percent a year earlier.  “You’ll start seeing us show year-over-year retail
increases starting in October,” Carter said in Richmond,
 California , on Sept. 16. The company’s focus is getting cars to
individual buyers, rather than business and rental fleets, he
said. “We’ve virtually shut down the fleet business,” he said.  Toyota last week restored full production at all North
American auto-assembly plants and said most would add overtime
shifts. The company temporarily halted all production after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami and then slowed output due to
parts and power shortages triggered by the natural disaster.  The quake also cut supplies of Japan-built Prius hybrids
and luxury Lexus models, causing the Toyota City, Japan-based
company’s U.S. sales to drop 7.8 percent this year through
August while industrywide deliveries grew 10.5 percent.  ‘Best Quarter’  Carter didn’t estimate Toyota’s September sales. The
company’s sales may be flat this month compared with a year ago,
said  Jesse Toprak , an industry analyst with TrueCar.com, an auto
pricing and data service based in  Santa Monica , California.  “The fourth quarter is definitely going to be the best
quarter for them so far this year,” Toprak said. “They will
have the supply problem mostly solved and some new products.”  Gains in the final quarter of 2011 will come from Camry,
increased supplies of Prius and the new Prius v wagon, a
refreshed Tacoma pickup and new Scion iQ, Carter said. Toyota’s
incentives will be “competitive,” and won’t rise dramatically,
he said.  “We’d rather price them at a good value, as we did with
Camry,” Carter said. “We want to advertise them, not
incentivize them.”  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is based in Torrance, California.
The company’s American depositary receipts, equal to two
ordinary shares, rose 3 cents to $70.84 at 4:03 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  