-- 
Al-Qaeda Recruit Padilla Should Get More Than 17-Year Term, Court Rules

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-09-19T20:40:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/padilla-s-prison-sentence-too-short-appeals-court.html
Jose Padilla, called an al-Qaeda
“star recruit” by U.S. prosecutors, should have received a
longer sentence than the 17-year, four-month term he’s serving
for his 2008 conviction, a federal appeals court said.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta sent Padilla’s case
back to the trial court for resentencing. The three-judge
appeals panel voted 2-1 to reject the lower-court judge’s
opinion that Padilla, now 40, will be too old to pose a threat 
upon his release from prison.  “Padilla poses a heightened risk of future dangerousness
due to his al-Qaeda training,” the appeals panel wrote. “He is
far more sophisticated than an individual convicted of an
ordinary street crime.”  A jury convicted Padilla in 2007 of conspiring to kill, maim
and kidnap people abroad for Islamic fundamentalist groups.
Jurors concluded that he raised money for extremists and trained
at an Osama bin Laden terrorist camp in  Afghanistan . During his
trial in Miami, his defense was that he went to learn to defend
Muslims in  Kosovo .  Marc Caruso, Padilla’s attorney, said today that Cooke’s
sentence was fair and that improper evidence from the government
was introduced at trial.  “We are obviously disappointed in the court’s ruling and
will seek review by the  Supreme Court ,” Caruso said in an
e-mail.  U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer in Miami won’t comment
“because the case is still pending,” said Alicia Valle, a
spokeswoman.  2002 Arrest  Padilla, born in  New York , was arrested in 2002 as he
arrived in the U.S. on a flight from  Pakistan . He is locked up
in the administrative maximum security facility in Florence,
 Colorado , according to the U.S.  Bureau of Prisons.   Padilla remained in detention for more than three years
without being charged with a crime. A federal judge in  South
Carolina  told prosecutors to charge him or free him. At the
time,  law enforcement  suspected that he plotted to explode a
radioactive “dirty bomb” in the U.S. and considered him an
“enemy combatant.” That accusation wasn’t included in the
charges against him.  The trial court reduced Padilla’s sentence by too much
based on the time he spent in jail before trial, U.S. Circuit
Court Chief Judge Joel Dubina wrote in today’s ruling. Judge
William Pryor joined Dubina in the decision. Judge Rosemary Barkett disagreed, saying in her dissenting opinion that some of
the evidence should have been excluded from Padilla’s trial.  Co-Defendants  Padilla’s co-defendants, Adham Amin Hassoun and Kifah Wael
Jayyousi, were convicted with him on the same charges.  In deciding against life sentences for the three, U.S.
District Judge Marcia Cooke in Miami said they didn’t engage in
conduct intended to murder or maim on U.S. soil and didn’t harm
any Americans in the U.S. or abroad. The sentences were shorter
than 30-year minimum terms that Cooke previously said were
supported by sentencing guidelines.  The case is U.S. v. Hassoun, 04-cr-60001, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Miami). The appeal case is
U.S. v. Jayyousi, 08-10494, U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 