-- 
Pakistan Says Adequate Reserves Reduce Need for New IMF Loan

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-09-19T09:54:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/pakistan-says-adequate-reserves-cut-need-for-new-imf-loan-1-.html
Pakistan said its foreign-exchange
reserves are at a “comfortable level” and the government won’t
seek a new loan from the  International Monetary Fund  after the
current program expires on Sept. 30.  “We don’t need a new program at this stage,” Finance
Secretary Waqar Masood Khan said in a phone interview from
Islamabad today. “Our reserves are at a comfortable level,
while exports and remittances have been sources of strength this
fiscal year.”  The Washington-based fund suspended disbursements to
Pakistan in May 2010 after the country failed to meet conditions
attached to a $11.3 billion loan. The South Asian nation has
tapped IMF aid since the end of 2008 as terrorism and floods
hurt economic growth and strained the government’s budget.  “We don’t share the same confidence that the government
has on the economy,” said Sayem Ali, a Karachi-based economist
at Standard Chartered Plc. “We do see a significant pressure on
reserves when big debt payments start next year. At the most
they will probably be going back to the IMF in 2013.”  The nation’s currency fell to a record low on Sept. 16 and
is on course for its fifth straight monthly drop in September.
The rupee declined 0.4 percent to 87.70 to the dollar at 1:30
p.m. in Karachi today.  Debt Repayments  Pakistan ’s government has to repay 243 billion rupees ($2.8
billion) of foreign debt in the fiscal year ending June 30,
according to budget documents.  The nation’s foreign-exchange reserves declined to $17.8
billion by Sept. 10 from a record $18.3 billion in July,
according to the central bank.  Pakistan’s government turned to the IMF for a bailout in
December 2008 after its foreign reserves shrunk 75 percent to
$3.45 billion and as the currency weakened.  In December last year, the IMF approved a nine-month
extension of the loan to give Pakistani authorities time to
comply with some elements of the agreement, including a
reduction in the  budget deficit  and implementing a  sales tax .  The South Asian country will adhere to the plan it agreed
with the IMF, including a policy of zero net borrowing from the
central bank to help contain inflation, Khan said today.  Pakistan Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s coalition has
pledged to narrow the budget gap to a seven-year low of 4
percent of gross domestic product in the year ending June 30,
2012.  The economy probably expanded 2.4 percent in the year ended
June 30, slower than an earlier target of 4.5 percent, according
to government estimates. Consumer prices in the country rose
13.77 percent in July from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  