-- 
Palestinians Bring Statehood Bid to World Leaders at UN’s General Assembly

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-19T20:05:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/palestinians-bring-un-statehood-bid-to-world-leaders-in-new-york.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  arrived at the United Nations today for the year’s
biggest gathering of world leaders, bent on defying a threatened
U.S. veto in the Security Council by seeking full membership.  Abbas told UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon of his
intention to ask the UN’s principal policy-making panel for
recognition of a Palestine state as the organization’s 194th
member. Earlier, Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad met
with donors to ask for help tackling a deficit of $585 million.  Asked whether his government might compromise on seeking UN
membership, Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat , who accompanied
Abbas into his first high-level meeting, said: “Nothing has
changed.”  The 76-year-old Abbas’s address to General Assembly on
Sept. 23 will provide the climax to a week of high-level
meetings on issues ranging from the situation in  Libya  to
nuclear safety to gender equity. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is scheduled to speak about an hour after Abbas.  Today, Netanyahu called on Abbas to meet him on the
sidelines of the UN meeting in New York.  “I suggest that President Abbas start peace negotiations
instead of wasting time on unilateral steps that have no
point,” Netanyahu said in a statement sent by text message to
journalists.  Ahmadinejad, Not Qaddafi  The UN speeches are scheduled to begin on Sept. 21, when
 Brazil ’s President Dilma Rousseff will become the first woman to
deliver the opening remarks.  For the first time in more than 40 years, Libya will not be
represented by  Muammar Qaddafi  or one of his officials. National
Transitional Council Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil will address
the General Assembly and the Qaddafi regime’s green flag will be
replaced with the rebels’ tri-color banner.  Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is set to make his
annual appearance at the podium, an event typically featuring
anti-semitic declarations that prompt Western delegates to walk
out of the hall in protest.  The U.S. and about 10 nations have announced they won’t
attend the 10-year commemoration of a UN conference on combating
racism because past meetings have included what the Obama
administration characterized as “ugly displays of intolerance”
against Israel. The 2001 UN conference against racism took place
in Durban,  South Africa , and focused in large part on Israel’s
treatment of Palestinians.  Chavez Sidelined  Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, undergoing cancer
treatment, is not scheduled to attend, while octogenarian Robert Mugabe, Zimbabwe’s dictator since 1980, is expected to blast
Britain’s colonial past in his country.  Japan ’s new Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  will make his debut at the world body in
the aftermath of the Fukushima nuclear disaster.  Still, most attention will be on the Palestinian
initiative. U.S. President Barack Obama’s Sept. 21 speech will
get particular scrutiny for clues on how the U.S. will respond.
At the same gathering last year, Obama touted a peace plan that
he said would lead to “an independent, sovereign state of
 Palestine .”  Instead, direct talks between Abbas and Netanyahu collapsed
last September when the Israeli leader refused to extend a
partial 10-month construction freeze on Jewish settlements in
the West Bank. Abbas said he wouldn’t resume talks while
building continues and any deal must be based on the 1967
borders, with land swaps.  Israel Pressing  A year later, the U.S. and Israel are now pressing members
of the 15-nation Security Council to deny the Palestinians the
nine votes they need for membership so the U.S. would not be
forced to veto. That effort is gaining traction, according to an
Israeli official who spoke on condition of anonymity because he
wasn’t authorized to speak on record.  Eight of the council’s members --  Russia ,  China , Gabon,
Nigeria, South Africa, Brazil, Lebanon and  India  -- have
indicated they will back the Palestinian proposal. That leaves
the U.S., U.K., France,  Germany , Portugal, Colombia, and Bosnia
and Herzegovina.  “It’s premature to say now” whether Germany, the U.K.
France and Portugal -- all on the  Security Council  -- will
abstain from a vote, Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini 
said in an interview in New York. “We risk losing credibility
if we have divisions among ourselves and divisions with the
U.S.”  EU Split  The European Union is struggling to agree on a common
position on Palestinian efforts to win recognition, undermining
efforts by the bloc’s 27 members to wield more global clout.  The EU’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , and former
British Prime Minister Tony Blair, representing the so-called
Quartet mediating group, are leading a last-minute bid for a
statement that might lure Abbas back into negotiations and, the
U.S. hopes, delay any UN action. The Quartet is comprised of the
U.S., UN, European Union and Russia.  “The best outcome of all the negotiations and discussions
taking place here in  New York  this week would be if Palestinians
and Israelis agreed to go back in to negotiations together,”
Britain’s Foreign Secretary William Hague told the UN General
Assembly today. “We along with all the other 26 countries of
the European Union have withheld our position on how we would
vote on any resolution that may come forward in the General
Assembly in order to exert as much pressure on both sides to
return to negotiations. That is the only real way forward.”  A new outbreak of political unrest in the  Middle East  is
likely to follow the speeches by Abbas and Netanyahu, according
to Cliff Kupchan, an analyst at New York-based research firm
Eurasia Group.  “Traditional restraints are absent. Egypt and Turkey,
formerly forces for moderation, will both be firmly in the
Palestinian camp: condemning the US and Israel,” Kupchan said.
“They will not foment violence, but neither will they restrain
it. A further destabilizing factor will be the U.S. isolation
and loss of influence.  Washington  will likely be isolated to an
if not unprecedented, then very rare, extent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  