-- 
Paraguay’s Foot-and-Mouth Cases Threaten Beef Exports

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-19T22:46:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/paraguay-reports-foot-and-mouth-cases-in-threat-to-beef-exports.html
Paraguay  reported an outbreak of
foot-and-mouth disease in cattle in the central  San Pedro 
department, its first occurrence of the livestock virus in eight
years, threatening $880 million in annual beef exports.  Clinical signs of the disease were observed in 13 cattle on
a farm in San Pedro, and confirmed by laboratory testing
yesterday, according to an  alert  from Paraguay’s National
Service for Animal Quality and Health published today by the
Paris-based World Organization for  Animal Health , or OIE.  Beef is Paraguay’s second-largest export after soybeans,
with shipments previously expected to rise in 2012 on a growing
herd and the country’s “good” sanitary status, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said in an Aug. 31 report. Foot-and-
mouth outbreaks typically result in “heavy”  trade restrictions ,
including bans on shipments of uncooked meat, according to the
OIE.  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef exporter, said it
suspended shipments abroad of the meat from its unit in the
South American nation. Minerva SA,  Brazil ’s third-largest
publicly traded beef producer, said it also halted slaughtering
at a plant because of the outbreak.  Contagious Illness  Foot-and-mouth disease is one of the most contagious
livestock illnesses and can kill young animals, according to the
OIE. The virus affects cloven-hoofed animals including cattle,
pigs and sheep.  Measures to be applied include culling of animals to stamp
out the disease, movement controls and vaccination in response
to the situation, the OIE said. The outbreak, the first in
Paraguay since July 2003, is continuing and there will be weekly
follow-up reports, the organization said.  The infected farm has 819 susceptible cattle, according to
the alert. The animals that tested positive for foot-and-mouth
disease were less than two-years-old and part of a herd of 110
animals in a production unit dedicated only to cattle farming,
the OIE said.  Paraguay’s shipments of fresh, chilled and frozen meat from
January to June were $445.5 million, 16 percent of the country’s
primary-industry exports, while soybean exports came to $1.24
billion, based on  data  from the Ministry of Industry and
Commerce.  Beef Exports  Paraguay was forecast to export 250,000 metric tons of beef
in the 2011-12 marketing year starting October and 300,000 tons
in the following year, according to the USDA’a  Foreign
Agricultural Service . The value of 2010 beef exports was $880
million, based on the  USDA report .  The main markets for exports in 2012 were expected to be
 Chile  for chilled beef and  Russia  for frozen beef, the USDA said.
The countries account for 70 percent to 75 percent of Paraguay’s
shipments of the meat, the USDA said.  Paraguay’s beef industry has attracted domestic investment
as well as investors from Brazil, Uruguay and  Europe , the USDA
said. Government officials forecast Paraguay’s cattle herd will
increase to 20 million animals by 2020 from 13 million now, the
USDA said, in its Aug. 31 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  