-- 
Pearson Tax Breaks Lure 600 Jobs to Manhattan, Mayor Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-19T20:52:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/pearson-tax-breaks-lure-600-jobs-to-lower-manhattan-mayor-says.html
Pearson Plc (PSON) , owner of the Financial
Times, intends to add 600 media and technology jobs in offices
near its current operations in Lower Manhattan’s Hudson Square,
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  The company, whose U.S. businesses also include publisher
 Penguin Group US , will receive at least $13.5 million in city-
arranged discounted electricity bills and state tax credits over
10 years starting in 2014 when it moves into 270,000 square feet
(25,000 square meters) of space at 330 Hudson Street, the
mayor’s office said in a news release.  The city’s  Economic Development Corp . arranged $4.5 million
in “Business Incentive Rate” energy savings, and the state’s
Empire State Development Corp. granted $9 million in tax credits
over 10 years to counter efforts by  New Jersey  to keep the jobs,
the news release said. Other city incentives for the company and
the building’s developer may be available, the mayor’s office
said.  “Pearson’s relocation to and expansion at Hudson Square
and its long-term investment in  New York City  is the latest
example of the private sector’s confidence in the direction of
our city and future growth of our local economy,” Bloomberg
said in a statement.  The expansion includes relocation of employees from Upper
Saddle River, New Jersey, and  White Plains , New York, with an
average salary of $72,000 a year, the mayor’s office said.
Pearson will invest an additional $21 million in the renovation.  New Jersey Jobs  New Jersey’s  Economic Development Authority  approved more
than $66 million in tax credits to help Pearson move 646
employees to Hoboken from offices in  Upper Saddle River , with an
additional $16.5 million offered in the event the company
creates 800 more jobs in the state, said Timothy Lizura, the
authority’s senior vice president for finance. The state tax-
credit program is intended to encourage development of a $90
million company facility in a $240 million building near
Hoboken’s train station, Lizura said.  “It’s about bricks and sticks, not just jobs,” Lizura
said in an interview.  Upper Saddle River Mayor Kenneth Gabbert, whose
municipality stands to lose more than 1,200 jobs, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call.  Bloomberg announced the move at a news conference today
attended by Will Ethridge, CEO of  Pearson Education , city
officials, and Beacon Capital Partners Founder and Chairman Alan Leventhal, the developer and leaseholder who invested $113
million to renovate the eight-story structure.  Hudson Square  has attracted media companies including  New
York  Magazine and Viacom Inc.’s  MTV , and advertising agencies
including  Saatchi & Saatchi  and Omnicom.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  