-- 
Philippines’ Tetangco Says Investment Rating ‘Within Sight’

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-09-19T06:47:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/philippines-tetangco-says-investment-debt-rating-within-sight-.html
The  Philippines  is nearing its goal
of achieving an investment grade credit rating, central bank
Governor Amando Tetangco said as the government prepares to meet
 Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  “We are on a rating momentum,” Tetangco said in an e-mail
reply to questions in  Manila  today. “If the rating agencies
would continue to consider the national financial position,
which really includes both the external and fiscal positions of
the country, the Philippines is in fighting shape for further
rating upgrade. We believe investment grade is within sight.”  Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said yesterday he will
“make the best case” to support the nation’s bid for a higher
ranking when he meets ratings companies while in the U.S. for
the annual meetings of the  International Monetary Fund  and  World
Bank  this week. President  Benigno Aquino  won upgrades from Fitch
and Moody’s this year after taking steps to narrow the budget
deficit from a record in 2010.  “That’s what governments do,” said Agost Benard, a
Singapore-based associate director at S&P. “It’s customary that
at the sidelines they will meet with our principals in the hopes
of convincing them that an upgrade is warranted,” he said.  S&P’s last rating update on the Philippines was in July,
when the country’s BB foreign currency sovereign ranking was
affirmed, Benard said when asked whether the company plans to
change the Southeast Asian nation’s credit grade.  Bond Yields  Benchmark five-year bond yields dropped to the lowest level
this year on Sept. 1, according to Philippine Dealing & Exchange
Corp. The rate has gained since then as  Europe ’s failure to
resolve its debt crisis prompted investors to sell emerging-
market assets on concern global growth will slow.  Higher credit ratings would allow the Philippines to borrow
at a cheaper cost, Tetangco said.  Fitch raised the country’s debt to BB+ on June 23, bringing
it to one step below investment grade. Earlier that month,
Moody’s upgraded the Philippines to Ba2, the highest level since
the start of 2005. S&P increased the nation’s rating to the
second-highest non-investment grade in November.  The government had a budget deficit of 43.713 billion pesos
($1 billion) in the seven months through July, less than the
191.2 billion-peso target for the period. The government plans
to narrow the 2012  budget deficit  to 2.6 percent of gross
domestic product, or about 286 billion pesos, from a target of 3
percent, or about 300 billion pesos, this year.  A record level of international reserves, the reduction in
the country’s external debt to less than half of what it was
about a decade ago as a percentage of GDP, and progress in
narrowing the budget deficit supports the Philippines’ case for
higher ratings, Tetangco said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  