-- 
Philippine Peso Drops to 12-Week Low on Europe Debt; Bonds Fall

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-09-19T03:02:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/philippine-peso-drops-to-12-week-low-on-europe-debt-bonds-fall.html
The Philippine peso slid to its
lowest level in almost 12 weeks as  Europe ’s failure to offer a
plan to solve its debt crisis prompted investors to sell
emerging-market assets. Bonds extended last week’s decline.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks snapped two-
days of gains before the European Union and International
Monetary Fund talk with Greek leaders today to assess whether
the country is eligible for the next tranche of aid payments.  “It’s the  risk aversion  and it’s a buy dollar mode,” said
Rafael Algarra, treasurer at Security Bank Corp. in Manila.
“Right now everything points to a possible default in Greece.
Until a clear path or some resolution is made, risk aversion
will linger.”  The peso dropped 0.3 percent to 43.41 per dollar as of
10:45 a.m. in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It
touched 43.42, its weakest level since June 29.  Europe’s finance chiefs said on Sept. 16 that the 18-month
debt crisis leaves no room for tax cuts or extra spending to
spur their economies. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
and Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann rejected using the
European Central Bank to boost the euro-area rescue fund’s
firepower, rebuffing a suggestion by U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner .  The yield on the 5.875 percent government bonds due January
2018 rose 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 5.28
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate
rose 33 basis points last week.  The Philippines is in “fighting shape” to attain a higher
credit rating and investment grade is “within sight,” central
bank Governor Amando Tetangco said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  