-- 
Poland Must Tackle State Finances for Debt Upgrade, Goldman Sachs Says

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-09-19T11:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/poland-must-tackle-state-finances-for-debt-upgrade-goldman-sachs-says.html
Poland  must overhaul its public
finances to reassure investors and increase its chances of
receiving a credit-rating upgrade like the neighboring Czech
Republic, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist said.  Near-term measures may include speeding up state asset
sales, reversing recent tax cuts and canceling reductions in
social contributions, Magdalena Polan said in an interview. In
the longer-term, the government must eliminate privileges
enjoyed by some professions and reduce early retirement among
public workers, she added.  “I don’t think there’s a wrong time to talk about
structural reforms,” Polan said Sept. 15 in Warsaw. “Ratings
agencies really appreciated the stance of the Czech government,
which engaged in a number of long-term structural reforms with
the ambitious goal of balancing the budget.”  Poland’s budget deficit soared to 7.9 percent of gross
domestic product in 2010, remaining above the  European Union ’s 3
percent limit for a third year. While ratings companies have
rewarded eastern European nations such as the  Czech Republic  for
lowering debt levels and overhauling pensions, Poland’s credit
grade may come under pressure as slower economic growth
threatens plans to trim the budget shortfall, Piotr Kowalski,
head of Fitch Ratings’s local unit, said Sept. 7.  Fitch rates Poland A- with a stable outlook, two grades
below the Czech Republic, which is at A+ with a positive
outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  upgraded the Czech Republic by two
notches Aug. 24, citing a “ prudently managed and balanced
economy.”  Investor Reassurance  “Investors would be most reassured” by a combination of
short-term measures to “make the country less exposed to market
fluctuations, together with a discussion of longer-term
measures,” according to Polan. The Czech upgrade “wasn’t just
because their fiscal metrics improved, but because of the
country’s resolve and political commitment.”  Poland is relying on economic growth of 4 percent this year
and in 2012 to help it meet deficit goals and keep public debt
below a legal threshold of 55 percent of GDP. While Finance
Minister Jacek Rostowski said Sept. 15 that there was no reason
to change the 2012 forecast, Bank of America Corp. lowered its
2012 growth estimate to 2.9 percent the following day.  The largest of the EU’s eastern members escaped recession
at the height of the global credit crisis in 2009. Still, the
government has struggled to improve public finances and Polan
doubts its ability to achieve a budget deficit of 2.9 percent of
GDP next year.  “We don’t think they will manage it,” Polan said,
predicting a deficit of 3.7 percent instead. “Whether Poland
could bring the deficit down to 3 percent of GDP in 2013 depends
to a great extent on growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  