-- 
Poland’s Zloty Tumbles Most in 16 Months on European Debt Crisis

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-19T14:48:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/poland-s-zloty-tumbles-most-in-16-months-on-european-debt-crisis.html
The Polish zloty tumbled the most
in 16 months after European officials failed to offer a plan to
halt the debt crisis of  Poland ’s biggest trading partner.  The zloty tumbled 2.5 percent to 4.3793 per euro as of 4:11
p.m. in Warsaw, the steepest decline since May 2010. It has lost
9 percent this quarter for the biggest retreat among 176
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on
bonds maturing in October 2021 rose 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 5.96 percent, the highest yield for a ten-
year benchmark since June 7.  Greece ’s ability to avoid default hangs in the balance this
week as international monitors will assess whether Prime
Minister George Papandreou can meet the conditions of rescue
loans. German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party lost a regional
election in Berlin yesterday amid voter anger over her handling
of the debt crisis.  The zloty “is still in the mire given its proximity to the
euro zone, political issues and fiscal strain,”  Luis Costa ,
emerging-market strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  London , wrote in
a note to clients. “The elections tick closer each day.”  Poland will hold a general election on Oct. 9. The ruling
 Civic Platform  party is running “neck-and-neck” with Law &
Justice, the biggest opposition party, making a “surprise”
result possible, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said in Gdansk last
week.  The government expects the economy will expand 4 percent
next year, which would allow for a cut in the  budget deficit  to
below 3 percent of gross domestic product. The largest eastern
member of the European Union sends 55 percent of its exports to
the euro area, according to Poland’s statistics office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  