-- 
Polish Stocks Tumble Most in Week as KGHM, Banks Fall on Greece

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-19T09:20:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/polish-stocks-tumble-most-in-week-as-kghm-banks-fall-on-greece.html
Polish stocks fell the most in a
week, leading declines on emerging European markets, after
European policy makers failed to introduce a plan to stem the
region’s debt crisis and investors speculated  Greece  may not get
a payment that would help it avoid default.  The WIG20 Index, in which financial shares and commodity
stocks, account for more than 75 percent weighting, tumbled 3
percent to 2,230.05 at 11 a.m. in Warsaw, falling for the first
time in five days. The gauge has slumped 24 percent from this
year’s closing high on April 29 as the region’s growing
sovereign debt crisis added to concern that the economic
recovery is at risk.  Finance chiefs from the euro region said after a meeting
last week the 18-month debt crisis leaves no room for tax cuts
or extra spending to spur an economy on the brink of stagnation.
Greece’s ability to avoid default hangs in the balance this week
as international monitors will assess whether Prime Minister
George Papandreou can meet the conditions of rescue loans.  “The disappointment with the lack of concrete decisions”
at the meeting of European finance ministers may “weigh on
 market sentiment ,”  Maja Goettig , chief economist at Bank BPH SA
in Warsaw wrote in a note today. “The market will also closely
watch information from” Greece.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the copper producer with the biggest
European mine output, sank 3.2 percent to 160.2 zloty, heading
for the steepest drop in a week. PKN Orlen SA, Poland’s biggest
oil company, declined 4.1 percent to 35.87 zloty and  Grupa Lotos
SA (LTS) , the second-largest refiner, retreated 1.7 percent to 26.9
zloty, snapping a four-day advance.  Copper, Crude  Copper declined as much as 2.7 percent to $8,463 per metric
ton on the London Metal Exchange, the lowest price since Aug. 9.
Crude for November delivery lost as much as 1.6 percent to
$86.52 per barrel in  New York .  PKO Bank Polski SA, Poland’s biggest bank, fell 3.6 percent
to 30.75 zloty.  Getin Holding SA (GTN) , the financial-services group
controlled by billionaire Leszek Czarnecki, sank 5.5 percent to
7.18 zloty and  Bank Millennium SA (MIL) , a unit of Banco Comercial
Portugues SA, lost 2.1 percent to 4.11 zloty. The zloty resumed
its decline against the euro and Swiss franc, reviving concern
borrowers will default on mortgages denominated in foreign
currencies.  Foreign-currency home loans, most denominated in francs,
totaled 188.2 billion zloty ($60 billion) in July, accounting
for 63 percent of all home loans in Poland, according to the
country’s financial regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  