-- 
Polish Industrial Output Beats Forecast in August, Supporting Rate Pause

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-09-19T14:13:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/polish-output-growth-beats-forecast-supporting-rate-pause-1-.html
Polish industrial-output growth
exceeded analyst forecasts in August, suggesting the central
bank is unlikely to cut  interest rates  soon even as the economy
is expected to slow.  Industrial production expanded 8.1 percent from a year
earlier after growing 1.8 percent in July, the  Central
Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today. That’s above the 2.7
percent median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Output rose 4.3 percent from the previous month. Construction
grew 10.8 percent on the year, the highest of all the components
measured.  Gross domestic product expanded 4.3 percent from the year-
earlier period in the second quarter, down from 4.4 in the
first. The European Commission last week reaffirmed its 2011
growth forecast for Poland of 4 percent.  “Today’s figure was a lot better than expected,”  Maja
Goettig , chief economist at Bank BPH in Warsaw, said by phone.
“It definitely lowers the likelihood of interest-rate cuts
anytime soon.”  The central bank raised its benchmark rate four times in
the first six months of the year to 4.5 percent. Inflation
slowed to 4.3 percent after peaking at 5 percent in May, easing
concern price growth would translate into higher salaries.
Corporate wages grew 5.4 percent in August, above economist
predictions, the statistics office said Sept. 16.  Zloty Weakens  The zloty dropped after the data to 4.3857 per euro as of
3:08 p.m. in Warsaw, down 2.1 percent on the day. The yield on
the five-year Treasury bond due in April 2016 was also little
changed after the release, yielding 5.102 percent.  “The Polish market is being driven purely by external
factors,” said  Maciej Reluga , chief economist at Bank Zachodni
WBK, by phone, adding  Greece ’s debt crisis is a larger factor
influencing the zloty market at the moment.  Producer prices, an early indicator of inflationary trends,
rose 6.6 percent from the year-earlier period in August, the
office reported separately today. That compares with a 6.4
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 19 economists.
Producer prices rose 0.4 percent from the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  