-- 
Political Embezzlement Rises as U.S. Campaign Accounts Swell

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-09-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/political-embezzlement-rises-as-u-s-campaign-accounts-swell.html
Representative Susan Davis’ latest
letter to supporters said: “We have been robbed!!”  Davis, 67, is one of several California Democrats whose
campaign accounts were allegedly looted during the past year by
their treasurer, Kinde Durkee. On Sept. 10, Davis sent out the
appeal to begin rebuilding her account.  Five days after Durkee’s arrest in Burbank on Sept. 2,
Representative Frank LoBiondo’s former campaign treasurer was
 sentenced  to 30 months in prison for embezzling more than
$450,000 from the New Jersey Republican’s campaign committee.  As candidates raise more money for their campaigns, there
is greater opportunity for nefarious treasurers to embezzle
campaign cash from politicians accustomed to putting their
careers in the hands of consultants, aides and volunteers, said
Michael Toner, a former Federal Election Commission chairman.  Such thefts are “almost entirely preventable,” said David
Mason, another  Federal Election Commission  chairman who is a
senior vice president at Washington-based Aristotle Inc., a
political consulting company. “Politicians still want to rely
on trust. It’s a personal business.”  Election lawyers said thefts are increasing as campaign
treasuries grow and candidates rely on the same person to pay
the bills and track the expenses. The average House member spent
$1.4 million to win election in 2010, compared with $840,300 a
decade earlier, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics ,
a Washington-based research group that tracks campaign spending.  Biden and Boehner  The list of those victimized includes then-U.S. Senator  Joe Biden  of  Delaware , now vice president; then-Senator Elizabeth Dole of  North Carolina , a former Republican presidential
candidate; and Representative  John Boehner  of  Ohio , now
Republican House speaker.  The  National Republican Congressional Committee ’s treasurer
stole more than $844,000 from the NRCC and other political
committees, and the campaign manager for then-Representative
Christopher Shays of  Connecticut  was sentenced to 37 months in
prison in 2010 for embezzling more than $250,000 from his
account.  “These officeholders flip over the keys to these
professional treasurers in a way they would never do for their
own savings,” said former  National Republican Senatorial
Committee  general counsel  Craig Engle , founder of Arent Fox
LLP’s political law group and treasurer of the firm’s political
action committee. “The more time an officeholder is spending
going over his spending, the less effective a candidate he or
she will be.”  Professional Treasurers  In the past, treasurers were often family friends or
prominent local figures, Engle said. As record-keeping became
more complicated, candidates brought in professionals, with no
personal connections to them, to handle the job. They found them
by word-of-mouth and recommendations; Durkee could sign checks
on more than 400 bank accounts, including an undisclosed number
of political committees, according to an  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  affidavit.  “As politics has become a regulated industry, the need for
professional treasurers, or campaign finance officers, has
increased dramatically,” Engle said. “What you see on reports
now are professional political treasurers who are handling the
books and records. No longer is it a friend or big wheel. It’s
someone who does it for a living.”  The campaigns that employed Durkee are now dealing with a
breach of trust and the need to re-raise the money they’ve lost.  ‘Madoff Ponzi Scheme’  Another Durkee client, Senator  Dianne Feinstein , had $5
million in the bank as of June 30, FEC reports show. How much if
that is still there remains unknown. The campaign hasn’t had an
opportunity to review the bank records, said her chief campaign
consultant,  Bill Carrick .  “I would anticipate there’s been embezzlement,” Carrick
said in an interview. Durkee was “moving money all over in a
classic Madoff Ponzi scheme. As a consequence, no one really
knows whose money is where. We’re going to try like hell to find
it.” Money manager  Bernard Madoff  pleaded guilty in 2009 to
running a Ponzi scheme in which he took money from new clients
to pay earlier investors.  Davis’ FEC statement showed her with $456,509 in the bank
through June 30. In her appeal for help to supporters, which was
provided to Bloomberg News by her office, she said she could
have lost as much as $250,000. The losses could have been worse
if Davis had not moved some of her donations into a reserve
account to which the treasurer did not have access, she said.  “As many of you have often said to me, ‘Please let me know
when you really need my help’ -- well I do now and I am not
holding back,” Davis said in her letter.  Tough Recovery  “It can really turn your campaign upside down,” said
Toner, who is co-chairman of the election law practice at Wiley
Rein LLP. “It becomes a lot harder to get new contributions
when you’ve just been embezzled. You don’t have the money you
thought you have and you’ve got to reach out to donors and say,
‘I’ve got to start over.’ ”  Stealing from campaign accounts isn’t a new phenomenon.  Dole’s former assistant treasurer admitted in 2004 that he
stole almost $175,000; the same year Biden’s assistant
treasurer, who took more than $400,000, pleaded guilty.  Refilling campaign accounts can take an extra step for
politicians who’ve become crime victims because they must
restore donors’ faith in their operations.  “Safeguards that should have prevented this were not in
place,” Boehner wrote to supporters in 2004 after his treasurer
stole $617,562 in campaign donations. “They are now, and to a
degree not seen in most congressional campaigns.”  Prevention Tips  Election lawyers say it’s easy to prevent such thefts.
Candidates can require two signatures on accounts, have
different people responsible for depositing donations and
writing checks, bring in a third person to review the books
regularly, and keep an eye on campaign funds the way they would
their personal bank accounts.  Beyond the lost cash, candidates and political committees
can also face financial penalties from the FEC for filing what
turn out to be false disclosure reports.  After  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s political action committee
was  victimized  by a treasurer who stole about $160,000 and
submitted false FEC statements to cover his tracks, the
Bethesda, Maryland-based company paid $27,000 in FEC fines for
the incorrect filings.  In 2007, the FEC  issued a policy statement  that protected
political committees from being fined for false reports if they
put in place certain safeguards, including having accounts in
the name of the committee and not an individual, requiring two
people to sign checks of more than $1,000, and having someone
not authorized to sign checks responsible for checking the
monthly bank statements.  “The last thing you need is a government penalty,” Toner
said. “The challenge here is having the money to really invest
in compliance.” With television advertising and consultants
often ranked as top budget priorities for campaigns, “it’s
tough because they don’t have the dollars to invest in these
areas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 