-- 
Premium Increases May Cut Enrollment in UnitedHealth Drug Plans

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-09-19T17:57:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/premium-increases-may-cut-enrollment-in-unitedhealth-drug-plans.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  may lose
500,000 poor elderly enrollees in its market-leading Medicare
drug plans next year because of a premium increase, a study
found.  Premiums for the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer’s plan
sold by  AARP , the senior citizen advocacy group, are set to
increase by 14 percent in 2012 on average,  Avalere Health  said
in a report today. Premiums for competing plans from  Humana Inc. (HUM) 
sold through Wal-Mart Stores Inc. will rise 2 percent.  “You have a number of plans that are taking aim at the
market leader,” said  Dan Mendelson , chief executive officer of
Avalere, a Washington consulting firm, in a phone interview.
Louisville, Kentucky-based Humana’s Wal-Mart plan carries the
cheapest premium in the U.S. and will average $15.10 a month
next year, his firm said. UnitedHealth’s premiums will cost a
monthly average of $39.70 in 2012, up from $34.82 this year.  UnitedHealth, with 4.8 million people enrolled in its
Medicare drug plans this year, will lose about 535,000
subscribers in 2012 because premiums for its  AARP  plan are too
high to qualify for federal low-income subsidies in most parts
of the U.S., the Avalere report found. UnitedHealth’s AARP plan
has about 4.7 million subscribers this year.  Higher premiums are justified because UnitedHealth offers
robust drug benefits designed to appeal to “the broader
population,” said Tom Paul, CEO of UnitedHealthCare Medicare &
Retirement, the operator of the insurer’s Medicare plans. He
didn’t dispute Avalere’s findings.  ‘Really Important’  “We have a very broad formulary, we’ve got a very broad
network, this year we’re the only national plan with no
deductible,” he said in an interview. “Those are the things
that consumers have told us are really important to them.”  James Dau, a spokesman for AARP in  Washington , directed
questions to UnitedHealth.  UnitedHealth hasn’t disclosed its projections for
enrollment in Medicare drug plans, Paul said.  “We do believe consumers will still resonate well with the
offering we have in the marketplace,” he said. UnitedHealth’s
AARP plan will still qualify for subsidies in some parts of the
country, and the company expects to maintain about 1 million
low-income customers, spokesman Matt Burns said.  Mendelson said he doubts United can increase its enrollment
despite losing the low-income subscribers.  “The competitive environment is a lot tighter,” he said.
“Every year the plans try to out-do one another.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 