-- 
Putin Is Unlikely to Run for Kremlin, United Russia Adviser Says

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-09-19T15:19:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/putin-is-unlikely-to-run-for-kremlin-united-russia-adviser-says.html
Vladimir Putin  is unlikely to
contest next year’s presidential election as he aims to carve
out a role as national leader, according to an adviser to the
prime minister’s ruling United Russia party.  President  Dmitry Medvedev , handpicked by Putin to succeed
him four years ago, will probably seek a second term, the
Petersburg Politics Foundation said in an e-mailed report today.  “Putin is strengthening his right to rule without a formal
status as president or prime minister so he can dodge problems
as a leader of a popular front and simply as a leader of the
nation,” Mikhail Vinogradov, head of the research group and
member of an advisory board at Putin’s  United Russia  party, said
today in a telephone interview.  Russia will elect a new parliament Dec. 4, three months
before March’s presidential vote. Putin, who has remained at the
center of power since relinquishing the presidency, leads
Medvedev in opinion polls. He stepped down in 2008 after serving
the maximum two consecutive terms permitted by the constitution.  In May, Putin formed the All-Russia People’s  Front , a
nationwide coalition of supporters, as backing for United Russia
dwindled. The party’s popularity has slipped to about 40 percent
after it won almost two-thirds of the vote four years ago.  While Putin and Medvedev have said they will decide
together which of them will run for the Kremlin in 2012, the
president’s advisers have urged him to seek the endorsement of
United Russia, which holds a congress in Moscow Sept. 23-24, to
secure re-election.  Medvedev has made fighting graft, improving the rule of law
and cutting the state’s role in the economy cornerstones of his
presidency. He has clashed with the prime minister this year
over foreign policy, and Medvedev supporters are urging him to
run regardless of Putin’s wishes.  The importance of “rejuvenating” the ranks of the
political elite and maintaining “efficient communications”
with foreign leaders are among the main reasons the president
will seek to return to the Kremlin, Vinogradov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  