-- 
Track Star Carl Lewis’ Senate Seat Ruling Overturned by U.S. Appeals Court

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-19T18:39:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/track-star-carl-lewis-senate-seat-ruling-overturned-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
A ruling last week allowing  Carl Lewis  on the ballot for a New Jersey state senate seat was
thrown out by a U.S. appeals court as it considers whether the
Olympic track-and-field gold medalist may participate in the
statewide election.  Lewis, a 50-year-old Democrat who has been seeking a place
on the ballot for New Jersey’s Eighth Legislative District,
persuaded a three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Philadelphia  last week to reverse a lower court decision barring
him. The same three judges ordered a full, or en banc, rehearing
before a larger group of appellate judges after state
Republicans filed an emergency petition.  The order today sets aside the panel’s ruling and allows
Lewis to remain on the ballot during the new appeal. Arguments
are set for tomorrow.  Lewis won an uncontested primary election in June after the
three-judge panel temporarily barred enforcement of a ruling by
 New Jersey ’s top election official that he was ineligible to run
because he didn’t meet state residency requirements.  New Jersey Secretary of State Kim Guadagno, a Republican
who also serves as lieutenant governor, refused to certify Lewis
as a candidate last month. The appeals court ruling last week
overturned a decision by U.S. District Court Judge Noel Hillman
on Sept. 6 upholding Guadagno’s decision, saying that the
state’s four-year residency requirement didn’t violate Lewis’s
constitutional rights.  The case turned on whether Lewis was a resident of the
state before a Nov. 8, 2007, cutoff. Lewis grew up in New Jersey
before moving to Texas and California. Lawyers for the nine-time
Olympic gold medalist said he bought a home in New Jersey in
2005, which made him a state resident.  Current Home  Guadagno said the record showed Lewis didn’t buy his
current home until Nov. 16, 2007, eight days after the cutoff.
She also argued that Lewis certified he was a  California 
resident each time he voted there in three elections in 2008 and
one in 2009.  The full federal appeals court said in an order today that
lawyers should be prepared to address whether a person can be a
citizen of two states, the requirements of California law for
voting in that state and to what extent a federal court can
interpret a state constitution.  The lower court case is Lewis v. Guadagno, 11-cv-02381,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden). The
federal appeal is Lewis v. Guadagno, 11-03401, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  