-- 
Rambus Was ‘Dethroned’ By Intel, Micron Attorney Tells Jury

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-09-21T21:32:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/rambus-tells-jury-hynix-micron-conspired-to-dominate-memory-chip-market.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS) ’s computer memory
failed to become an industry standard because it was
“dethroned” by  Intel Corp. (INTC) , not as a result of collusion by
rivals, a lawyer for Micron Technology Inc. told a jury.  In closing arguments at a state-court trial in  San
Francisco ,  William Price , a lawyer for Micron, said yesterday
that Rambus was aware of technical problems with its version of
dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, when it signed a 1996
contract to work with  Santa Clara , California-based Intel Corp.,
the world’s largest chipmaker. The jury began deliberating
today.  The relationship was “conceived in fraud,” Price told
jurors. “Intel lived with Rambus” in an attempt to develop
Rambus-designed memory, or RDRAM, into a product, he said.  “What Intel concluded at the end was RDRAM was not the
product they thought it was, and that Rambus was not the company
they thought it was,” Price said. Intel “selected Rambus to
become king, and Intel dethroned Rambus.”  Rambus contends that Boise, Idaho-based Micron and Ichon,
South Korea-based  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  colluded to cut the
prices of their own DDR, or double data rate, memory chips and
deserted their commitment to produce RDRAM, relegating it to a
niche role.  Rambus, which doesn’t make the chips it designs, said it
would have made $3.95 billion in royalties without the alleged
conspiracy. Under California law, a jury finding of damages in
that amount would be automatically tripled to $11.9 billion.  ‘Flatly Inconsistent’  Bart Williams, a lawyer for Rambus, today showed jurors
internal Intel documents and e-mails that he said are “flatly
inconsistent” with Hynix and Micron’s arguments that Intel
determined by 1999 that RDRAM was “dead.” The date is
important because Rambus must demonstrate it was harmed after
May 2000 -- four years before it filed the case -- to avoid its
claims being time-barred.  “The damages here were exactly what the defendants
intended,” Williams said. “They intended for DDR to get the
nod as main memory, they intended to drive Intel away from
Rambus, they intended to interfere with that relationship.”  Hynix lawyer Ken Nissly yesterday described what he called
Rambus’s “doomed” relationship with Intel.  Intel managers testified that the collaboration failed
because RDRAM was flawed. They also cited a contract provision
that allowed Rambus to block shipments of processors that relied
on the chip designer’s technology if certain conditions
requiring Intel to promote RDRAM weren’t met.  ‘RDRAM-Compatible’  After arbitration, Intel offered in 2000 to develop an
“RDRAM-compatible solution” through 2002 if Rambus agreed to
withdraw the so-called guillotine provision, Nissly said. He
cited the testimony of William Swope, a former Intel manager,
who was asked about Rambus’s rejection of the offer.  “I thought the relationship was doomed,” Nissly quoted
Swope as saying.  “Intel could make Rambus, and they could unmake Rambus.
Rambus itself acknowledges that,” Nissly told jurors. “No
Intel witness came and testified in a way that supported
Rambus’s case.”  Williams countered that argument today by telling jurors
that Rambus believed the offer from Intel was akin to a tenant
agreeing to pay a landlord rent every month and then asking the
landlord to “sign this thing that says if I don’t pay you, you
won’t evict me.”  Rambus was confident it could stand up to Intel because it
believed no company could duplicate the increased memory speeds
RDRAM offered without stealing the underlying the technology,
Williams said. He then told jurors about separate, pending
patent lawsuits against both Micron and Hynix over that issue.  The case is Rambus Inc. v.  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , 04-
0431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  