-- 
Rand Depreciates to One-Year Low Against Dollar as Commodity Prices Tumble

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-19T16:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/rand-falls-to-one-year-low-against-dollar-as-commodities-tumble.html
The rand slumped to its weakest
level in more than a year against the dollar and bonds fell as
European officials failed to offer a plan to halt the region’s
debt crisis, cutting demand for riskier assets.  The rand declined as much as 3.2 percent to 7.7303 per
dollar, its weakest level since July 2010. It traded down 2.8
percent as of 5:04 p.m. in Johannesburg. Against the euro, the
rand slipped 1.7 percent to 10.4838.  Commodity prices fell to the lowest level in a month, led
by decreases in metals including copper, after European policy
makers failed to introduce a plan to stem the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis and boost growth.  South Africa ’s benchmark
stock index snapped a four-day winning streak as raw materials
producers including BHP Billiton Ltd. and Anglo American Plc
dropped. The euro, the currency of 45 percent of South Africa’s
export payments, tumbled for a second day.  “You just have to look at the state of the euro for a
guide to where the rand is going,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief
dealer at Bidvest Bank Ltd. in Johannesburg, which runs South
Africa’s largest chain of moneychangers, said by phone. “All
the troubles swirling around  Europe  are spilling over into
emerging markets and especially the rand, because they’re our
biggest trading partner.”  The rand could extend its decline to 8 per dollar in the
coming weeks if it breaches 7.75 per dollar, a so-called support
level, De Vleeschauwer said. Support or resistance levels are
levels where traders cluster orders to buy or sell a currency.  EU Concern  European Union and International Monetary Fund inspectors
speak today with Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos to
judge whether the government is eligible for its next aid
payment due next month. After a two-day meeting of EU finance
ministers and central bankers that ended Sept. 17, Sweden’s
Anders Borg said  Greece  hasn’t done enough to meet its budget
targets. The country is struggling to convince critics that it
will be able to win a sixth tranche of loans to prevent default.  “Foreigners are very wary of the situation and lightening
up on their emerging-market exposure,” De Vleeschauwer said.
“We’re in for a rocky ride.”  The rand’s decrease came after the  European Central Bank 
last week said it will lend dollars to the region’s banks as the
sovereign-debt crisis fueled concern lenders are facing
financing problems, prompting investors to sell riskier,
emerging-market assets.  Currency Depreciation  “With banks doubting each others’ solvency, we are at risk
of money  markets freezing up and so an unwinding of leveraged
plays,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, currency
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in a
research note. “Leveraged assets such as the rand are in for a
rough ride.”  Bonds slumped, driving yields to the highest in more than a
month, on concern the weaker rand will stoke inflation, reducing
the central bank’s room to cut  interest rates .  The  consumer price index  likely rose 5.5 percent, from 5.3
percent in July, according to the median estimate of 19
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The  Reserve Bank ’s Monetary
Policy Committee will keep its benchmark interest on hold at 5.5
percent, according to all 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Bonds have weakened in tandem with the rand,”  Brigid Taylor , head of institutional currency sales at Nedbank Capital
in Johannesburg, said by e-mail. “The MPC this week is likely
to be hawkish on inflation as the rand weakness looks likely to
persist, and as such poses upward pressure on the CPI.”  The 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 dropped 78 cents to 122.26
rand, driving the yield up 20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage
point, to 7 percent, the highest since Aug. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  