-- 
Regulators Should Cooperate Across Borders, Fortis’s Daems Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-19T09:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/regulators-should-cooperate-across-borders-fortis-s-daems-says.html
Bank regulators need to step up
their cross-border cooperation to prepare for the “extreme
difficulties” of managing international fallout from a major
bank failure, Fortis Bank SA/NV Chairman Herman Daems said.  Daems called for improved relations between supervisors in
a bank’s home country and other nations that are host to
subsidiaries and affiliates. When regulators don’t have the
right relationships up front, it creates difficult problems such
as those that Brussels-based Fortis experienced when it had to
be rescued in 2008, Daems said last week at a conference in
Wroclaw,  Poland .  “We need to make sure that home and host supervisors will
develop over time sufficient experience in working with one
another so that when they’re faced with one another in a period
of crisis, they can work together,” Daems said. “You need to
do a lot of work in the different countries so that you have the
right instruments to deal with these things.”  Bankers gathered at the Eurofi financial conference in
Poland Sept. 15-16, three years after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. failed in  New York  and triggered a global financial crisis.
Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands banded together to
rescue Fortis, which also is 20th on the list of banks that
borrowed the most from the U.S. Federal Reserve’s crisis
liquidity programs.  U.S. supervisors are developing procedures for handling
international bank failures as part of broader work on oversight
of banks whose collapse would pose systemic risks. The Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., the U.S. agency that handles bank wind-
downs, is designing an approach where regulators would intervene
at a company’s highest level and act where possible to preserve
subsidiaries and affiliates that might still be viable.  Advanced Planning  “This requires coordination and advanced planning to avoid
precipitous actions in host jurisdictions, including our own
where we are not the home jurisdiction, so as not to undermine
maximum franchise value on a global basis,” said M.P. Azevedo,
a deputy director of the FDIC’s office of complex financial
institutions.  The Group of 20 nations have asked the Financial Stability
Board to agree on measures for winding down failing banks and
avoiding damage to the broader financial system. Such resolution
processes can lead to either a bank being broken up and its
assets sold on or a lender being resurrected with a smaller
balance sheet with higher  capital ratios .  Daems said regulators should develop “flexible” policies
that are clear and not overly complex. He also said that
government bank-resolution funds generally should not be used to
refinance failing banks so as not to create moral hazard.  Regulators need “more tools to reinforce trust, reinforce
financial stability without having to rely on taxpayers,” Daems
said. “Taxpayers are no longer ready to save banks and so we
need other mechanisms to convince them that we can save banks
when they get in difficulty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  