-- 
Regulators’ Use of Third Party to Probe UBS Trades ‘Bizarre,’ Analyst Says

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-09-19T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/regulators-use-of-third-party-to-probe-ubs-trades-bizarre-analyst-says.html
U.K. and Swiss regulators’ use of a
third party to investigate  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s $2.3 billion trading loss
was called “bizarre” by an analyst who said the agencies
should have the expertise to conduct the probe on their own.  The investigation will be handled by a firm that’s
independent of UBS, the Financial Services Authority and the
Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority said Sept. 16.
Kweku Adoboli was charged the same day in London with fraud and
false accounting, less than 36 hours after he was arrested.  “It’s a bit bizarre,” Fred Ponzo a former trader at
Societe Generale SA and a capital markets adviser at Greyspark
Partners in London, said in a telephone interview. The
activities “were a bit more exotic than share trading, but the
FSA should be able to carry out the investigation.”  The joint Swiss and U.K. probe will be conducted at the
same time as investigations by police, prosecutors and an
internal review by Zurich-based UBS. The FSA and the Swiss
regulator, known as Finma, said their investigation will focus
on the details of the allegedly unauthorized trades, control
failures that allowed them to happen, and an assessment of the
bank’s methods to prevent fraudulent trading.  The loss, initially estimated on Sept. 15 at $2 billion,
came from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX and EuroStoxx
index futures over the past three months, the bank said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  ‘Normal Business Flow’  “The positions taken were within the normal business flow
of a large global equity trading house as part of a properly
hedged portfolio,” UBS said in the statement. The magnitude of
the risk was masked by “fictitious positions,” UBS said.  UBS notified the police and regulators of the unauthorized
trades early in the morning of Sept. 15. Adoboli was arrested at
3:30 a.m. and remains in police custody. He is being held until
Sept. 22, when he can request bail at a court hearing.  The City of  London  Police investigation is continuing and
they are working with the FSA, the  Crown Prosecution Service ,
and the  Serious Fraud Office , which prosecutes white-collar
crime in the U.K.  Futures Trades  David Sidwell, the senior independent director on UBS’s
board and a former chief financial officer of Morgan Stanley,
will lead an internal three-person committee that will look into
the trading and the bank’s controls.  The Financial Times reported that accounting firm Deloitte
would the conduct the Swiss and U.K. regulatory probe. Rachel
Cohen, a spokeswoman for the FSA in London, declined to comment.  Two years ago, the FSA fined UBS 8 million pounds ($12.6
million), at the time the third-largest penalty ever imposed by
the regulator, for not stopping employees in its U.K.
international wealth-management business from making
unauthorized trades with customer money.  UBS’s loss is the largest of its type since former Societe
Generale derivatives trader  Jerome Kerviel  caused a 4.9 billion-
euro ($6.8 billion) loss in 2008.  The FSA said in a March 2008 policy document it had
discussed the Kerviel case with as many 50 banks in London and
that “many had already put in place reviews to ensure they
identify any gaps in trading controls and close them as soon as
possible.”  The FSA warned banks to monitor traders’ positions for
material risks and said that most firms were satisfied “that
their basic controls and governance surrounding trading, risk
management and settlement activities are effective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  