-- 
Republicans Vow Revolution, Blame Obama for ‘Uncertainty’: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-19T00:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/republicans-complain-of-economic-uncertainty-while-vowing-revolution-view.html
How exactly, according to
Republicans, is President  Barack Obama  supposed to have caused
the current economic malaise and high unemployment?  You can criticize Obama for running up huge deficits that
may wreck the economy in the long run, but in the here and now,
even a feckless deficit-spending program can only stimulate the
economy and create jobs. However dismal the  unemployment rate  is
now, it would have been worse without the hundreds of billions
pumped into the economy by two administrations and the  Federal
Reserve .  Once again: This does not necessarily mean that the
stimulus was wise, or that we need more of it. Only that its
short-term effect on jobs has surely been positive -- or, if
not, we need an explanation of why not.  The Republicans have a theory. With remarkable unanimity,
Republican leaders in Congress and the party’s presidential
candidates have parroted a one-word explanation: “uncertainty.”
While many political tropes are abused on a bipartisan basis --
the self-exonerating press conference after a sex scandal comes
to mind -- the “uncertainty” lament is a largely Republican
creation.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  says that “job-destroying
regulations” have left “a cloud of uncertainty hanging over
small and large employers alike,” preventing them from hiring
new workers. Representative  Michele Bachmann  says that small
businesses are “scared to invest in new jobs because of economic
uncertainty.” Sarah Palin, how would you rescue us? “I’d
eliminate the uncertainty in the economy.”  Mitt Romney : Obama’s
policies “have done the one thing employers can’t deal with ...
created more uncertainty.” House Speaker  John Boehner :
“Uncontrolled spending over decades -- by both parties -- has
created an environment of economic uncertainty that is
destroying jobs.”  No Evidence  There is no doubt that certainty is generally preferable to
uncertainty, in the economy as in most aspects of life. A stable
currency, for example, makes it easier for businesses to plan
ahead, and encourages new investment. But there is no evidence
that uncertainty has increased during the Obama presidency, or
that, if it has, the president’s policies are responsible for
it. Plenty of mystery remains about how health-care  reform  will
turn out, for example, but having a plan -- whether it’s a good
one or not -- surely creates less uncertainty than the
intolerable situation employers faced beforehand: a broken
system and no plan to fix it.  The charge of “creating uncertainty” is a way to blame
Obama for the U.S.’s economic trials without having to explain
the connection. In fact, if anyone in the political world is
responsible for creating uncertainty, it is the Republicans.
Look at last month’s debt-ceiling  imbroglio , which left the
world wondering whether the  United States  would even honor its
debts -- something that was never uncertain before. The decision
to turn a routine vote to raise the debt ceiling into a high-
stakes game of chicken was made by the Republican House
leadership.  Now, you may feel that irresponsible  government spending 
has imperiled the country’s future to the extent that radical
confrontation was a reasonable or even a wise policy. (We don’t
feel that way, but you might.) Even so, the Republicans’ debt-
ceiling gambit hardly reflected any great fear of “uncertainty.”
Indeed, the unsurprising result was increased volatility in
global markets and a  lower investment grade  for U.S. bonds --
the result of increased uncertainty about those bonds being paid
off.  Republican Strategy  Uncertainty is not just a byproduct of Republican strategy:
It is central. Throughout the debt-ceiling crisis, Republican
behavior seemed to have been informed by classic game-theory
analysis, which holds that in a game of chicken, it’s
advantageous to be crazy -- or at least to be thought to be
crazy. Rational political leaders wouldn’t let the government
default on its debt just because they didn’t get their way (just
as, in a nuclear standoff, no rational country would bring on
Armageddon if its demands were not met). But if you can plant a
seed of doubt about your own rationality -- Who knows what that
nut will do? -- you can make your threat credible. By appearing
willing to damage the economy via default, Republicans won.  The Republicans complain about uncertainty, then promise
revolution. In the campaign to be the party’s presidential
nominee, candidates like Texas Governor Rick Perry and Bachmann
claim that Social Security is unconstitutional or that vaccines
cause mental retardation. Would they really follow through on
some of their wilder positions? If any of the top-tier
Republican candidates is elected president -- even Romney, who
promises to repeal health-care reform on day one -- we might all
look back with longing on the calm, restful environment of the
Obama administration.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 