-- 
RIM Fourth Quarter $1.82-a-Share Doubts Over Tablet Mount: Tech

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-09-19T20:16:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/rim-q4-1-82-a-share-doubts-over-tablet-mount.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , which
disappointed investors last week for the third quarter in a row,
will probably fall short of full-year forecasts too amid
intensifying competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   RIM said it will earn $5.25 to $6 a share, excluding some
costs, for the fiscal year ending in January. To do that, the
Waterloo, Ontario-based company will have to make at least $3.12
in the second half of the year, including $1.82 in the fourth
quarter if it hits the mid-point of its third-quarter forecast.
RIM has never made that much, and, given the new devices coming
from Apple and Google’s partners, it’s unlikely to do so this
time, said Cowen & Co LLC analyst Matt Hoffman.  “Management doesn’t see reality the way the market sees it
right now,” said Hoffman, who is based in  Boston  and has a
“market underperform” rating on the stock. “I don’t see how
they can get to $1.82 when they’re facing all this
competition.”  RIM’s forecast is based in part on early demand for a range
of new BlackBerrys with more advanced touch-screen features, its
first new phones in a year. Still, the devices will have to
stand out against Apple’s iPhone 5, new phones from Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. that run Google’s Android software and
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  handsets that use  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone.  “RIM is underestimating the increasingly competitive
smartphone environment,” said  Michael Walkley , an analyst with
Canaccord Genuity Ltd. who has a “hold” rating on the stock.
“We worry the refreshed RIM products will not change consumer
sentiment or regain lost customers.”  PlayBook Plummets  Tenille Kennedy, a spokeswoman for RIM, referred to
comments by executives including Co-Chief Executive Officer  Jim Balsillie  about strong demand for new products and said the
company stands by its forecast.  The company is showing no progress in the tablet computer
market. It shipped about 200,000 of its PlayBook tablets last
quarter, down from 500,000 the quarter before and less than half
the 490,000 that analysts had estimated. RIM’s tablet was
outshipped by Apple’s iPad 46 to 1 in the latest quarter.  RIM said it will unveil new software for the PlayBook next
month that will let customers use native e-mail and run Android
applications. Still, analysts had cut estimates for full-year
PlayBook sales to an average of 2.2 million, even before last
week’s earnings report.  Apple will probably release a third version of its market-
leading iPad in 2012, JPMorgan Securities analyst  Mark Moskowitz 
said last week.  Analysts are skeptical RIM can hit its earnings forecast,
even after the company said results would be at the low end of
the range. Analysts expect profit of $4.78 per share for the
year, excluding some costs, according to the average estimate
from a Bloomberg survey of 49 analysts.  ‘Don’t Trust’  Just six of the analysts have estimates within the
company’s provided range, while 43 are below that level,
according to Bloomberg data.  “We don’t trust those numbers,” said Jeff Fidacaro, an
analyst at Susquehanna International Group in New York who
estimates RIM will make $4.63 per share. The highest estimate is
for RIM to make $5.60 a share and the lowest is for $3.50,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  RIM fell 21 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $23.72 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has dropped 59
percent this year.  RIM’s share of the global smartphone market dropped to 12
percent in the second quarter from 19 percent a year earlier,
according to Gartner Inc. In the same period, Apple climbed to
18 percent from 14 percent, and Android, used in phones from
Motorola and Samsung Electronics Co., rose to 43 percent.  ‘Excellent Reception’  Balsillie said last week that lower-than-expected demand
for older devices hurt sales last quarter, when the company
shipped 10.6 million BlackBerrys or more than 1 million less
than analysts had estimated. RIM’s latest handsets, which run on
a new BlackBerry 7 operating system, are “having an excellent
reception,” he said.  RIM’s problem is that those new phones are only now making
up the ground they’ve lost to current Apple and Android devices,
according to Cowen & Co.’s Hoffman.  BlackBerry 7 “catches up with phones that were launched 12
months ago,” he said. “We do not anticipate BB7 being
competitive once those new versions of all those operating
systems are in the market over the next few weeks.”  Hoffman estimates RIM will earn $1.20 in the third quarter,
$1.10 in the fourth quarter and $4.43 in the full year.  Third-Quarter Forecast  The company forecast third-quarter revenue of $5.3 billion
to $5.6 billion and shipments of between 13.5 million and 14.5
million BlackBerrys. Earnings excluding charges related to job
cuts will be in the range of $1.20 to $1.40, it said.  Alkesh Shah, an analyst with Evercore Partners Inc. in New
York, projects that RIM would need to record sales of about $6
billion, to reach a fourth-quarter profit of at least $1.80.  “Hitting that revenue number would be very difficult,”
said Shah, who estimates revenue will be about $5.62 billion.  RIM would have to reverse a revenue decline to make those
numbers. The company would need to boost sales in the fourth
quarter about 8 percent compared with a year earlier to hit $6
billion, after revenue fell 9.8 percent last quarter. According
to Bloomberg’s analyst survey, RIM’s sales are estimated to be
about $5.65 billion in the fourth quarter.  Shah says his “optimistic” prediction that RIM will ship
53 million BlackBerrys and 1.5 million PlayBooks for the year
only gives the company earnings of $4.90 for the full year.  “It’s a pretty steep ramp up to even hit the low end,” he
said. “RIM is still going to have a challenging next few
months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  