-- 
Risk Averse Saudi Banks Underperform Gulf Peers: Arab Credit

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-09-20T07:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/risk-averse-saudi-banks-underperform-gulf-peers-arab-credit.html
Saudi Arabian equity investors are
punishing the kingdom’s banks for locking assets in low-yielding
investments after recovering from the region’s biggest loan
defaults.  The shares of Saudi banks have underperformed their peers
in the  Persian Gulf  this year, with the Tadawul All-Share Bank
Index tumbling 14 percent. Dubai Financial Market Bank Index
gained 3.5 percent in the period and the Qatar Exchange Banking
Sector Index advanced 1.5 percent.  Banks in the world’s biggest oil exporter are lending
mainly to “blue-chip borrowers” and parking money with the
central bank at a time when  interest rates  are at the lowest
level since June 2009, according to Asim Bukhtiar, an analyst at
Riyad Capital. “The low-rate environment is not expected to
turn around in the next two quarters.”  Saudi bank lending slowed in the past two years after two
family owned businesses defaulted on at least $15.7 billion of
loans and the biggest Arab economy was hurt by the global credit
crunch. Lending to privately owned companies rose 7.2 percent
this year to 831.5 billion riyals ($222 billion) in July,
according to central bank  data . It jumped 27 percent in 2008,
the data show.  Saudi Arabia , which pegs its currency to the  U.S. dollar ,
shadows the  Federal Reserve ’s monetary policies and has kept its
benchmark reverse repo rate at 0.25 percent. The three-month
 interbank rate  at which Saudi banks lend to each other was 0.6
percent yesterday compared with 1.48 percent in the  United Arab
Emirates , the second-largest Arab economy.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in August the central
bank would keep its interest rates near zero until 2013 to help
economic growth after the rating company Standard & Poor’s
stripped U.S. off its AAA status.  Dumping Shares  As forecasts for higher interest rates faded, investors
dumped Saudi banking shares, according to Aybek Islamov, a
Dubai-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Some investors were
betting on rising interest rates, but now with the downgrade of
the  U.S. debt , it looks like the high rate expectations are now
deferred to 2013-2014,” he said in a phone interview Sept. 18.  Shares of  Al Rajhi , Saudi Arabia’s biggest bank by market
value, have tumbled 16 percent this year, compared with a 49
percent surge in  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the biggest bank in the
U.A.E. Al Rajhi reported a 3.6 percent increase in second-
quarter profit. Emirates NBD net income jumped 85 percent.  Rising Income  All banks except  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA) , the kingdom’s
second-biggest lender by market value, reported gains in second-
quarter profits. Riyad Bank’s net income advanced 9 percent,
while its shares plunged 11 percent this year. Samba’s second-
quarter profit fell 9.8 percent and its loan book contracted 0.4
percent, helping the shares deepen their losses to 28 percent
this year.  Banks in Saudi Arabia have been cleaning their loan books
after provisions for credit losses reduced their earnings over
the past three years. Provisions of 11 publicly traded lenders
dropped 52 percent to 871.3 million riyals in the second quarter
from a year earlier, according to Bloomberg calculations based
on data posted on the Saudi bourse.  “While the level of provisioning subsided as expected, the
boost in earnings was subdued as a result of continued
conservative stance by the banks,” Bukhtiar said. Banks have
tightened their lending criteria, curtailing the “name
lending,” he said.  No Government Debt  Saudi Arabia has no outstanding government debt and only a
handful of companies have issued international bonds. The yield
on Banque Saudi Fransi’s 4.25 percent dollar bond maturing in
March 2015 has fallen 30 basis points, or 0.30 percentage point,
this year to 2.69 percent yesterday. The average yield on Middle
Eastern corporate bonds for the period retreated 71 basis points
to 4.83 percent, according to the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai Middle East
Conventional Corporate US Dollar Bond Index.  Rising oil output to compensate for lost production in
 Libya  may help Saudi Arabia’s economy grow 6.6 percent this year
from 3.8 percent in 2010, Standard Chartered Plc said in a
report Sept. 15. It forecast the central bank to raise the
reverse repo rate to 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012.  Boosting economic growth is also a $130 billion spending
plan announced by  King Abdullah  Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud in
February and March after protests toppled rulers in Tunisia and
 Egypt . King Abdullah announced a package of about $100 billion
on March 18 which included funds to build 500,000 homes and for
military and religious groups that backed the government’s ban
on domestic protests. Non-oil gross domestic product may expand
4.2 percent this year and 5 percent in 2012, according to Jadwa
Investment’s forecasts.  Slow Loan Growth  Still, banks “have been indicating that demand for loans
has been relatively slow to pick up,” Murad Ansari, an analyst
at investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in  Riyadh , said in an
e-mail. “One of the reasons is that the private corporate
sector went through an expansion phase between 2006-2008. These
expansions are still not fully utilized, and hence credit demand
for further expansions has been low.”  Saudi Arabian banks’ price-to-book-ratio, a measure of
share prices relative to net assets, was 1.7 compared with 1.96
for Qatari lenders and 0.8 for banks listed on the Dubai stock
exchange. The ratio of loan to deposits in Saudi Arabia is about
80 percent, compared with more than 94 percent in the U.A.E.,
according to data from the central banks.  Asset quality has been improving over the last year and
“this trend is expected to continue for the remainder of
2011,” Standard Chartered Plc’s analysts Shady Shaher and
Victor Lohle wrote in the report, viewing Saudi banks as “among
the most defensive in the region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian  in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net 
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  