-- 
Rupiah Trades Near 7-Month Low as Funds Sell Assets on Europe

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-09-19T08:37:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/rupiah-trades-near-7-month-low-as-funds-sell-assets-on-europe.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah traded near a
seven-month low as foreign funds sold the nation’s assets on
concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will slow global economic
growth, hurting exports from Southeast Asia’s biggest economy.  The currency dropped a second day as the MSCI Asia-Pacific
Index of regional stocks snapped a two-day advance. Overseas
investors cut their holdings of Indonesian government bonds by 6
percent to 236.9 trillion rupiah ($26.7 billion) last week, debt
management office data show. Foreign funds sold $411 million
more local shares than they bought in the five days ended Sept.
16, according to exchange data.  “The market is cautious on what is going to happen in the
euro zone,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. in Singapore “That is keeping Asian currencies
under pressure including the rupiah.  Bank Indonesia  has been
active to smooth the flows in the currency.”  The rupiah fell 1.6 percent to 8,945 against the dollar as
of 3:33 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said Sept. 14 the
central bank intervened in the rupiah and bond markets to curb
declines after the currency weakened as much as 2.6 percent that
day and reached a seven-month low of 8,939 versus the dollar.  Indonesia is preparing a stimulus package that it may
implement in the first half of 2012 should the global economy
deteriorate and hurt growth, Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of
fiscal policy at the Ministry of Finance, said Sept. 15. The
government will “respond to maintain growth,” Finance Minister
 Agus Martowardojo  told lawmakers that day.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann rejected on Sept. 16 using the  European
Central Bank  to boost the euro-area rescue fund’s firepower,
rebuffing a suggestion by U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  Government bonds climbed for the first time in six days.
The yield on benchmark 8.25 percent securities due July 2021
fell seven basis points to 7.07 percent, according midday prices
from the Inter-Dealer Market Association. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. The rate climbed 73 basis points to a two-
month high last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  