-- 
Russian Nuclear Supplier Plans IPO While Seeking Shale Gas, Wind Expansion

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-09-19T10:33:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/russian-nuclear-supplier-plans-ipo-while-seeking-shale-gas-wind-expansion.html
OAO Atomenergomash , a Russian
state-owned supplier of equipment to nuclear power plants, is
diversifying into shale gas and wind power, and plans an initial
public offering for its separate operations in 2014 or 2015.  The company will also invest about 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) by 2015 to modernize operations and for acquisitions to
expand outside of  Russia , said Chief Executive Officer  Vladimir
Kashchenko  in an interview in London. The company plans to sell
shares separately in its nuclear, thermal power, alternative
energy, and gas and petrochemicals businesses in 2014 or 2015.  “We would like to sell shares to return some funding back
to the state,” Kashchenko said. “We have a long way to go.”  Atomenergomash, or AEM, earns about 60 percent of its sales
from supplying  Rosatom , Russia’s State Nuclear Energy Corp. AEM,
based in Moscow, is expanding into markets outside of the former
 Soviet Union , Central and Eastern Europe such as India, Vietnam
and  China . It’s also examining proposals to develop shale gas
projects in  Morocco ,  Syria , Central Asia and the  Middle East .  “Shale gas projects will become a significant vector in
our development because the demand for cleaner burning fuels
will be growing,” Kashchenko said. “It’s important for us
strategically to develop non-nuclear businesses because we can
see a large potential and have key technologies to expand.”  The company plans to almost double its Russian market share
to 30 percent and get about the same proportion of its sales
outside of the country by 2015. It expects to double sales this
year to $2 billion through organic growth and acquisitions.  Wind Energy  “We hope to maintain our growth rate,” Kashchenko said.
“We set up a renewable energy division last year and will be
expanding into wind power generation.”  In the next six months, Atomenergomash plans to buy one of
three companies with wind-turbine technology it has short-listed
to help it build Russian farms, he said, declining to elaborate.  The country, the largest oil and natural gas producer, aims
to generate about 2.5 percent of its energy by 2015 from
renewable sources, excluding hydropower. It needs to develop
laws to stimulate the use of alternative energy, Konstantin Kosachyov, head of the Russian lower house of parliament’s
foreign affairs committee,  said  in June.  “I can see a large potential,” Kashchenko said. “These
are growing markets and we are interested.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  