-- 
Saft May Buy Back Shares After Johnson Payment, Jefferies Says

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-09-19T10:36:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/saft-may-buy-back-shares-after-johnson-payment-jefferies-says.html
Saft Groupe SA (SAFT) , a French maker of
batteries used in space and military electronics, may buy back
shares after getting $145 million for the termination of a joint
venture with  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , according to  Alex Barnett ,
an analyst at Jefferies International.  “There is significant scope for a special dividend” or a
buyback, Barnett wrote in a report. “With the $145 million JCI
payment expected Oct. 1, management is now evaluating optimal
 capital structure , and refinancing outstanding debt due mid-2012
is the near-term priority,” said the London-based analyst, who
has a “buy” recommendation on Saft shares.  A decision to give money to shareholders or buy shares may
not occur immediately because of acquisition opportunities and
“market jitters,” Barnett said after meeting with Saft
management and customers in Jacksonville,  Florida , where the
company started production at a lithium-ion battery factory last
week.  “We’re going to study whether to go back into the car
market, we have a refinancing to make next year, and there may
be other things to do with that money,” Jill Ledger, Saft’s
communications and investor relations director, said today in a
telephone interview. “We’ll look at all options. We certainly
won’t rush to make a decision.”  Saft, based in Bagnolet near Paris, and Milwaukee-based
Johnson Controls agreed this month to end a joint venture for
vehicle batteries formed in 2006. Johnson Controls will buy
Saft’s share for $145 million in cash, and the transaction could
close as soon as Sept. 30, Saft and Johnson Controls said in a
joint statement on Sept. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  