-- 
Saleh Meets With Saudi King Abdullah After Almost 50 Die in Yemen Clashes

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-09-19T16:27:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/saleh-meets-with-saudi-king-abdullah-after-almost-50-die-in-yemen-clashes.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
met with  King Abdullah  of neighboring  Saudi Arabia  on the second
day of clashes in Yemen between anti-government protesters and
security forces that left almost 50 people dead.  The two Arab leaders met at the Saudi royal palace in the
capital,  Riyadh , to discuss developments in Yemen, the official
Saudi Press Agency  said today . It was the first time they’ve met
since Saleh arrived in the kingdom in June to receive treatment
for injuries he sustained in an attack on his compound.  In the Yemeni capital, Sana’a, 27 people were killed today
as security forces and protesters clashed, the opposition
Organizing Committee of the Popular Youth Revolution said in an
e-mailed statement. In the southern city of Taiz, two died and
at least seven were wounded as security forces fired on crowds.
At least 20 people were killed in Sana’a yesterday when
government forces and gunmen shot at thousands of demonstrators.  The rallies came after the Organizing Committee urged
Yemenis to escalate the protests and remove the “remains of the
regime.” Gulf Cooperation Council countries have failed in
repeated efforts to get Saleh and the opposition to sign a
power-transfer agreement and end months of unrest.  “Saleh has proven his obstinacy in the face of
international and domestic pressure and continues to manipulate
 Yemen ’s political scene from Saudi Arabia,” Gala Riani, a
Middle East political analyst with IHS Global Insight in  London ,
said in an e-mailed report today. “Without rapid political
developments capable of placating an angry public, the situation
in the capital risks escalating further.”  UN Envoy Arrives  The United Nations envoy to Yemen, Jamal Benomar, arrived
in Sana’a today along with GCC Secretary-General Abdullatif Al Zayani for meetings, the state-run Saba news agency said. Saleh
authorized Vice President Abd Rabbo Mansur Hadi to begin a
dialogue with the opposition aimed at implementing the Gulf-
brokered power-transfer initiative, Saba said Sept. 12.  Both sides should “disengage forces immediately and avoid
escalation,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Saudi Arabia, holder of the world’s biggest oil reserves,
funnels about $1 billion a year to Yemen in an attempt to keep
the country “contained” and buy tribal support, according to
Mustafa Alani, director of the security and terrorism program at
the Gulf Research Center in Dubai.  Al-Qaeda’s Yemen-based wing tried to assassinate the top
Saudi anti-terrorism official, Prince Muhammad bin Nayef bin
Abdulaziz, in 2009. The same year, Shiite Muslim insurgents from
the Houthi tribe in northern Yemen seized a sliver of Saudi
territory, killing a Saudi soldier and prompting retaliatory
airstrikes.  Al-Qaeda  Saleh, a U.S. ally in the fight against al-Qaeda, became
leader of North Yemen in 1978 and has ruled the Republic of
Yemen since the north and south merged in 1990. Yemen is the
ancestral home of the late al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. It
was the site of the 2000 attack on the USS Cole, which killed 17
U.S. sailors, and the breeding ground for plots including the
attempt to bomb a Detroit-bound airliner in December 2009.  In November, al-Qaeda claimed responsibility for two parcel
bombs sent from Yemen to U.S. synagogues.  Saleh has repeatedly said that his departure could lead to
civil strife and the resurgence of al-Qaeda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 