-- 
Sany Heavy Weighs Overseas Acquisitions Following $3.3 Billion Share Offer

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-19T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/sany-heavy-weighs-overseas-acquisitions-following-3-3-billion-share-offer.html
Sany Heavy Industry Co.,  China ’s
biggest maker of construction equipment, plans to make
acquisitions and build plants overseas after a  Hong Kong  share
offering that may raise as much as HK$26 billion ($3.3 billion).  The company expects to begin production at a plant in the
U.S. by year-end, and it’s also targeting sales in  India ,
 Brazil , Indonesia, the  Middle East  and Africa, Tang Xiuguo,
president and co-founder of parent, Sany Group Co., said in an
interview in Changsha, Hunan province yesterday. Sany may also
work with or buy overseas companies to add technology and
customers, he said.  “We have some opportunities and we are in talks on some
businesses, including mergers and acquisitions,” he said. The
company may partner with “some specialized enterprises,
including some family businesses, which have very good
professional skills and a certain group of clients,” he said,
without elaborating.  Sany Group, which also makes port equipment and wind
turbines, plans to get as much as 50 percent of revenue from
overseas within a decade as it targets new markets and seeks to
offset a stronger yuan, Tang said. The company has already
opened an industrial park in  Germany  this year as it challenges
Caterpillar Inc. and Komatsu Ltd. overseas.  Sany Heavy, based in Changsha, is offering 1.34 billion
shares in Hong Kong at HK$16.13 to HK$19.38 apiece, according to
the term sheet, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
The company plans to begin trading in the city on Oct. 3.  Shanghai Shares  The equipment-maker’s Shanghai listed shares fell 1.2
percent to 14.86 yuan yesterday. The stock has risen 3.1 percent
this year, compared with a 13 percent decline for Shanghai’s
benchmark index.  The company is pressing ahead with the Hong Kong share sale
even after XCMG Construction Machinery Co. scrapped plans for an
offering in the city because of tumbling global stock markets.
The  Hang Seng Index  has tumble 16 percent since the end of July.  “Conducting a share sale today can help us expand overseas
in a faster, better and smoother way,” Tang said. Sany Heavy
may eventually invest in  Africa  in exchange for resources from
the continent, he said.  Tang spoke before Sany announced a new type of concrete
pump truck with an 86-meter-long arm, which the company said
would be the world’s longest. Sany supplied a similar pump to
help cool a reactor at a Japanese nuclear plant crippled by the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  