-- 
Sany Defies Equities Collapse With $3.3 Billion Share Sale as XCMG Delays

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-09-19T08:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/sany-defies-equities-rout-with-3-3b-sale.html
Sany Heavy Industry Co. and Citic
Securities Co. are pushing ahead with share sales in  Hong Kong ,
where companies have canceled or delayed a record $14 billion of
equity offerings this year as stock markets tumble.  Sany Heavy will raise as much as HK$26 billion ($3.3
billion), according to a term sheet. Citic Securities is
marketing a $1.9 billion share sale after attracting early
investors including Temasek Holdings Pte and  Kuwait Investment
Authority , people with knowledge of the deal said Sept. 16.  The two companies are braving a market where investors have
lost money on 37 of the 48 companies that started trading this
year and equity sales are on track for the slowest third quarter
since 2008. Sany Heavy and Citic Securities may still appeal to
investors speculating on  China ’s economic growth, said fund
manager  Binay Chandgothia  of Principal Global Investors.  “Sany is the biggest machinery maker in China and Citic
Securities is the biggest brokerage, so both are providing a
compelling investment case,” said Hong Kong-based Chandgothia,
whose firm oversees more than $200 billion. “Other companies
may have to price shares cheap or struggle to get things done in
such a market environment.”  Shanghai-listed shares of Sany Heavy, which is raising
money to expand production lines, have gained 3.1 percent this
year while Citic Securities has dropped 5.2 percent. The
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is down 13 percent in 2011.  Overseas Takeovers  Sany Heavy may use proceeds from the sale for acquisitions
overseas, and plans to build factories in the U.S. and  Germany ,
Tang Xiuguo, president of parent Sany Group Co., said in a group
interview in Changsha City,  Hunan province  today. The company
had already delayed the sale “several times” in 2011, and
doing so again wouldn’t be “suitable,” he said.  “Selling shares today can help us become more globalized
and seize more opportunities, which may be of greater value than
delaying our offering for two months” to raise more money, said
Tang.  Sany Heavy is offering 1.34 billion shares at HK$16.13 to
HK$19.38 apiece, according to the term sheet. That’s a 12.1
percent discount to a 5.6 percent premium to the stock’s
Shanghai closing price of 15.04 yuan on Sept. 16.  Pricing at the middle of the range would value Sany Heavy
at 12.5 times estimated 2011 profit, a premium to Hong Kong-
listed shares of Changsha Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and
Technology Development Co., according to Bloomberg data.
Zoomlion, the second-biggest Chinese machinery maker by market
value, trades at 10.2 times forecast 2011 profit, the data show.  XCMG Postpones  XCMG Construction Machinery Co., which trades in Shenzhen,
became the latest casualty of the equities rout as it delayed a
Hong Kong stock sale of as much as $1.5 billion, people with
knowledge of the matter said Sept. 16.  XCMG’s delay means almost $12 billion of share sales have
been withdrawn or postponed in the city since May, as the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  plunged 18 percent, according to
Bloomberg data.  That’s more than in any full year since Bloomberg began
compiling the data, and exceeds the $11.4 billion in deals
withdrawn or delayed in all of 2010. China Everbright Bank Co.
scrapped a $6 billion offering in August, having considered
cutting the size of the sale in half as stocks dropped.  “The IPO market is slowing down as it takes time for
companies to adjust their pricing expectations following recent
stock market declines,” said Will Li, head of  equity capital
markets  for China at Deutsche Bank AG in Hong Kong.  Iron Ore Miner  Successful offerings by Sany Heavy and Citic Securities
“would give the market a dose of encouragement,” he said.  The Bloomberg Hong Kong IPO Index, which measures the
first-year performance of new stocks, is down 19 percent this
year, as  Europe ’s debt crisis and evidence of a slowdown in the
 U.S. economy  have driven investors out of stocks.  Also proceeding with offerings this week are Tenfu (Cayman)
Holdings Co. and Xiao Nan Guo Restaurants Holdings Ltd.,
meanwhile. The two companies plan to price initial public
offerings worth as much as a combined $277 million on Tuesday.  Last week, iron-ore miner China Hanking Holdings Ltd.
revived plans to raise about $170 million. Hanking, which
delayed its IPO in June, is scheduled to meet investors this
week, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Chinese consumer companies and insurers may be among
industries that might find Hong Kong equity offerings easier to
complete “given current macroeconomic dynamics,” Li said.
Deutsche Bank is helping arrange the Hanking IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  