-- 
SAP Shuns Hardware Deals to Propel Stock

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-09-19T23:05:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/sap-relies-on-software-while-shunning-deals-to-vie-with-oracle.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s top maker of
business applications, will rely on software innovation rather
than large acquisitions to vie with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  in the $2
trillion global corporate-technology market.  “We’ve made the decision to innovate the future, not
consolidate the past,” said co-Chief Executive Officer  Bill McDermott , in an interview today. “I don’t see where hardware
is going to give us an advantage.”  While Oracle,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  have used acquisitions to become one-stop
shops for corporate hardware and software, SAP has focused on
getting products out the door more quickly and used deals to
expand in data-analysis and applications for smartphones and
other portable devices.  Since McDermott and co-CEO Jim Hagemann Snabe took the helm
of Walldorf, Germany-based SAP in February 2010, the shares have
climbed 9.3 percent even as the European debt crisis curtailed
spending in that region. Oracle surged 23 percent over that
period, with a 33 percent sales gain in the last fiscal year,
showing investor confidence in efforts by CEO  Larry Ellison  to
expand revenue through acquisitions.  SAP’s sales rose 17 percent last year as McDermott and
Snabe steered into areas including software for mobile devices
such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad. New data analysis software called
Hana lets customers quickly analyze large amounts of sales and
operational information.  Executives Buy Shares  “We agree that the stock is low, that’s why we bought
it,” McDermott said, referring to executive share purchases.
“We’re not worried about the short term reaction of the
market.”  SAP will meet its 2015 sales forecast of 20 billion euros
($27.3 billion) even amid turmoil in  Europe , McDermott and Snabe
said. That tops the average 18.5 billion euro estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “What does it mean for our business? Not so much so far,”
Snabe said of the economic situation in Europe. “The countries
that are in trouble are very small in our global portfolio.”  Global spending on information technology by companies and
governments will reach $2.15 trillion next year, up 18 percent
from 2010, according to a Sept. 16 report from  Forrester
Research Inc. (FORR)   SAP controls 25.3 percent of the $21.2 billion market for
business-management software, more than twice Oracle’s share,
according to market researcher Gartner Inc.  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  are among about 180,000
companies that use its applications to order goods, plan
inventory levels and manage sales.  Sybase Deal  Now, SAP is trying to sell them on mobile software gained
through last year’s $5.8 billion acquisition of Sybase Inc. and
the Hana software, which lets companies analyze data in a
computer’s memory instead of through slower disk drives.  If Hana “really gets traction in the market,” it can help
SAP boost software license sales by as much as 20 percent
between 2013 and 2015, said Knut Woller, a technology analyst at
UniCredit Research in Munich.  Even with the new offerings, SAP must convince customers
not to switch to products from rivals, including Oracle and IBM,
which sell combinations of hardware and software. Oracle plans
to announce database software that runs in computer memory --
similar to SAP’s Hana -- at its OpenWorld conference in  San
Francisco  next month, said  Jason Maynard , an analyst at Wells
Fargo Securities in San Francisco.  ‘One-Stop Shop’  “It makes all the sense in the world that Oracle would
extend its products,” said Maynard, who has a “market
perform” rating on SAP. “The best advice I could offer to SAP
is, continue to focus” on software, he said.  SAP’s pitch: Software tailored for specific industries
that’s compatible with any device companies may use makes a
single vendor for hardware and applications unnecessary.  “When you think about what Oracle did, they had a best-in-
breed database business and they looked out there and they said,
‘What customers want is a one-stop shop,’” said  Rob Taylor , co-
manager of Harris Associates’ Oakmark International Fund and
Oakmark Global Fund, who owns SAP and Oracle shares.  “Oracle used acquisitions to get to where SAP is now,”
said Taylor. “Having more stuff to offer a customer that is
very sticky is beneficial.”  Oracle Encroaches  Oracle agreed to buy Sun Microsystems Inc. for about $7.4
billion in 2009, stepping in after IBM’s talks to buy the server
maker collapsed. The deal, among several aimed at SAP’s core
business customers, gave Oracle Sun’s Java technology and the
Solaris operating system software.  Hewlett-Packard on Aug. 18 announced a $10.3 billion
acquisition of enterprise software company Autonomy Corp. IBM
agreed in 2009 to buy SPSS Inc. for about $1.2 billion to gain
software that helps businesses analyze and predict trends, two
years after it paid $4.9 billion for Cognos Inc. to add software
for tracking corporate performance.  SAP partners including IBM, Hewlett-Packard,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  run Hana software on their computers, which
may make selling hardware unnecessary, said Josh Greenbaum, an
analyst at Enterprise Applications Consulting in Berkeley,
 California .  “That’s a DNA transplant that’s pretty severe for the
likes of SAP,” he said. “They just don’t have to build the
hardware. They just get to sell the high-value components.”  Independent Route  Staying independent lets SAP more easily strike
partnerships with hardware companies whose systems can run SAP
applications, McDermott said.  “IBM wouldn’t like us nearly as much if we decided to buy
a hardware company,” he said.  McDermott and Snabe became co-CEOs after the February 2010
ouster of former CEO  Leo Apotheker , who is now chief executive
at Hewlett-Packard.  McDermott, 50, who comes from Long Island,  New York , joined
SAP in 2002 and was head of global field sales. Snabe, 45, who
is Danish and lives in Copenhagen, joined the company in 1990 as
a trainee and rose through the ranks of consulting, software
development management and sales.  McDermott and Snabe said they plan to keep co-CEO structure
indefinitely.  “I have no reason to believe we wouldn’t do it till
retirement time,” McDermott said.  The company is focused on shortening the time it takes to
release new products and intends to continue spending about 14
percent of revenue on research and development, Snabe said.  We will be hiring some young, smart people in all the
geographies across the world,’’ Snabe said. “We are definitely
moving from quantity to quality.”  -- With assistance from Ragnhild Kjetland in  Frankfurt . Editors:
Lisa Rapaport, Tom Giles  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  