-- 
Saudi Court Tries Militants for Planning Attacks on U.S. Troops

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-09-19T15:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/saudi-court-tries-militants-for-planning-attacks-on-u-s-troops.html
A Saudi Arabian court is trying 41
suspected al-Qaeda militants for their alleged roles in planning
attacks against U.S. troops based in Qatar and  Kuwait  and
fighting with insurgents in  Iraq .  The charges against the defendants, including 38 Saudis,
range from training in militant camps in  Pakistan , fighting in
Iraq with Jordanian-born Abu Musab al-Zarqawi and financing
terrorism, the Saudi Press Agency reported, citing a court
hearing. An Afghani, Qatari and Yemeni are also being tried by a
Specialized Criminal Court in  Riyadh , the news service said.  Islamic militants started a series of violent strikes in
the country that aimed to weaken the ruling family’s control of
the world’s largest oil reserves and break the kingdom’s
relationship with its U.S. ally. Militants targeted Western
nationals in a campaign of kidnappings and bombings from 2003
until a crackdown, led by the Saudi Ministry of Interior,
suppressed militant activity in the kingdom.  Saudi Arabia  arrested 11,527 people since Sept. 11, 2001,
for their alleged involvement in terrorism, the ministry said on
April 24. In July, a Saudi court started trials against 85
suspected al-Qaeda militants for their alleged roles in attacks
against three housing compounds in Riyadh in May 2003, the
official Saudi Press Agency said. As many as 239 people were
killed or injured in the assaults, it said.  Other charges against the 41 defendants include
transporting weapons, forging documents, inciting militants to
fight in Iraq and harboring suspected terrorist, the news
service said. The news service didn’t say when the Islamic
militants had planned to attack U.S. forces in Qatar and Kuwait.  One of the defendants was a Saudi sergeant working in the
military,  Arab News  reported, citing an unidentified official at
the Saudi court. The Saudi used his experience in wireless
communications to develop a code for the terrorists’ wireless
equipment, the Jeddah-based newspaper reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Jeddah at   gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  