-- 
SEC Proposes Conflict Ban in Asset-Backed Securities Sales

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-19T20:42:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/sec-weighs-conflict-ban-for-sellers-of-asset-backed-securities.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission proposed barring bets against asset-backed securities
by underwriters and securitization participants to root out
conflicts of interest that might harm investors.  SEC commissioners voted 4-0 today to seek comment on a
rule, required by the Dodd-Frank Act, that would restrict those
who package or sponsor asset-backed securities from engaging in
deals that put their interests in conflict with buyers for a
year after the first closing of a sale.  “This rule is designed to ensure that those who create and
sell asset-backed securities cannot profit by betting against
those same securities at the expense of those who buy them,”
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said before the vote in Washington.
“The rule is not intended to interfere with traditional
securitization practices.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  paid $550 million last year to
settle SEC claims related to its marketing of collateralized
debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages. The Wall Street
investment firm acknowledged making a mistake in marketing
materials and providing “incomplete information” after being
accused of creating and selling the securities without
disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the
underlying securities and bet against them.  Carl Levin   The proposal is “hopefully an important step forward” for
Wall Street reform, said Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan
Democrat who pushed to include the rule in Dodd-Frank and led an
examination of the Goldman Sachs case as chairman of the
Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.  “It was as if a car dealer sold a car with bad brakes,
then bought insurance that paid off when the car crashed,”
Levin said in a statement after today’s vote. Goldman Sachs
created “junk investments and sold that junk to their clients”
while betting they would fail, said Levin, who sought a U.S.
Justice Department review of his panel’s findings after
releasing them on April 13.  Stephen Cohen , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment on the SEC’s proposal.  The rule specifies the restriction should be in place for a
year from the security’s sale date, and it would also apply to
third parties working with the securities’ underwriters.  ‘Adverse Impacts’  “We hope that the rules proposed by the SEC are crafted to
eliminate these incentives without unintentionally prohibiting
appropriate hedging, market-making and other legitimate
transactions, and causing unnecessary adverse impacts on the
markets for asset-backed securities,”  Tom Deutsch , executive
director of the New York-based American Securitization Forum,
said in a statement.  The SEC’s proposal would provide exceptions for risk-
mitigating hedging activities, as well as activity consistent
with liquidity commitments and bona fide market-making, Schapiro
said in her prepared remarks.  The rule, which will be open for a 90-day comment period,
was supposed to be completed in April, according to the law. The
SEC’s Dodd-Frank schedule lists it for final adoption between
January and June next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 