-- 
Seoul Mutual, Solomon Savings Lead Gains in Korean Lenders

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-09-19T08:50:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/seoul-mutual-solomon-savings-lead-gains-in-korean-lenders-1-.html
Seoul Mutual Savings Bank (016560)  led gains
among a group of small South Korean lenders that passed
financial checks after regulators suspended operations at seven
of their rivals.  Seoul  Mutual Savings Bank jumped by the daily limit of 15
percent to 2,300 won at the 3 p.m. close of trading in Seoul,
while  Korea Savings Bank (025610)  advanced 1.3 percent. The benchmark
Kospi Index fell 1 percent.  South Korea is tightening supervision of small lenders
after a real-estate market slump soured construction loans. The
four banks were among those excluded from a list of lenders
ordered to halt operations for six months after financial
regulators assessed 85 local savings banks.  “These guys were given a new lease of life,” Shim Hyun Soo, a Seoul-based analyst at KB Investment & Securities Co.,
said by telephone. “The news is short of being a mid-to-long-
term positive factor though, given the number of savings banks
keeps declining. The industry itself may continue shrinking.”  Savings banks in South Korea are small regional lenders
whose business is mostly limited to taking deposits and making
loans. Given their small size, the suspension will likely have
limited impact on the country’s overall banking system,  Standard
& Poor’s  said in a statement today.  Jeil Savings Bank (024100) , Jeil II Savings Bank, Tomato Savings
Bank, Prime Mutual Savings Bank, Ace Mutual Savings Bank, Dae
Yeong Mutual Savings Bank and Parangsae Mutual Savings Bank were
ordered to halt operations for six months, the  Financial
Services Commission  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Six of the suspended lenders had capital-adequacy ratios
below 1 percent under  Bank for International Settlements 
criteria, their debts exceeded assets, and their proposals to
improve management weren’t approved by regulators, the FSC said.
One savings bank requested suspension, it said.  The institutions will be offered for sale or their
operations transferred to state-controlled savings banks should
they fail to improve finances and bolster capital within 45
days, the statement said. Savings banks with BIS ratios of 5
percent or higher can tap government-supported funds to boost
their capital adequacy, it said.  South Korea  suspended nine savings banks earlier this year
after their finances deteriorated because loans for construction
projects went bad.  Woori Finance Holdings Co., the country’s largest financial
company by assets, acquired assets of Samhwa Mutual in March.  Licenses of Daejeon Mutual Savings Bank, Jeonju Savings
Bank and Bohae Mutual Savings & Finance Co. were canceled after
they failed to attract buyers, the FSC said on Sept. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 