-- 
Shell Wins U.S. Air Permit for Arctic Exploration in 2012

-- B y   S t e v e   G e i m a n n
-- 
2011-09-19T23:04:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/shell-wins-u-s-air-permit-for-arctic-exploration-in-2012-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  won U.S. air-
pollution permits to operate an oil-exploration and drilling
fleet in  Alaska ’s Chukchi and Beaufort seas for 120 days a year
starting in 2012 after agreeing to cut emissions.  The permits let Shell run the Discoverer drill ship,
icebreakers, spill-response and supply vessels, the
Environmental Protection Agency said today in a statement. Shell
must cut emissions tied to pollution, such as nitrogen dioxide,
by 50 percent from levels approved in a 2010 permit that was
challenged in court by environmental groups.  “These reductions are largely due to new emission controls
Shell added to meet the new nitrogen dioxide standards that went
into effect” this year, the EPA’s regional office in  Seattle 
said in an e-mailed statement.  Shell’s pursuit of oil in Alaska’s icy waters has been
portrayed by industry and environmentalists as a first test for
U.S. offshore drilling regulators beyond the  Gulf of Mexico ,
where exploration has resumed under restrictions set after BP
Plc’s spill last year.  The company said it’s ready to respond to any spill in the
remote Arctic region, home to rare animal species such as polar
bears and beluga whales.  Alaska’s waters may hold as much as 26.6 billion barrels of
oil, according to a federal report, making it the second-largest
domestic oil reservoir after the Gulf of Mexico. Shell has been
seeking permission to drill since 2007, and some of its permits
expire in four years. Shell has invested more than $3.5 billion
in U.S. leases bought in 2005 and 2007.  Shell needs permits from the EPA, the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service, the
 Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement
said in an Aug. 4 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Geimann in Washington at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  