-- 
SHUAA Capital & Bloomberg Tradebook Launch DMA Trading Platform

-- B y  
-- 
2011-09-19T14:37:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/shuaa-capital-bloomberg-tradebook-launch-dma-trading-platform.html
                               
Global investors get direct access to UAE financial markets  Dubai and New York -- SHUAA Capital, the leading financial
services institution in The Cooperation Council for the Arab
States of the Gulf (GCC), and  Bloomberg Tradebook , Bloomberg’s
agency broker, today announced  the launch  of a direct  market
access  (DMA) trading platform. The new technology allows both
local and international institutional investors to trade
equity products on the Dubai Financial Market (DFM) and the
 Abu Dhabi  Securities Exchange (ADX) in the  United Arab
Emirates  (UAE).  The Bloomberg Tradebook-SHUAA DMA platform gives global
traders direct access to UAE markets via a direct-to-exchange
connection through the Bloomberg Professional service. This
technology enables trade execution without calling local
brokers who manually process orders.  “SHUAA Capital is a large and well respected financial
institution in the  Middle East  and North African (MENA)
region. The combination of SHUAA’s local expertise and
Bloomberg Tradebook’s powerful tools provides real-time
electronic access to these markets, more execution
transparency and automated trade confirmations,” said Raymond
M. Tierney III, Chief Executive Officer of  Bloomberg
Tradebook . “In addition, SHUAA’s award-winning equity research
provides local market insight.”  His Highness Sheikh Maktoum bin Hasher  Al Maktoum , Chairman of
SHUAA Capital, said, “The Bloomberg Tradebook-SHUAA platform
will revolutionize the UAE brokerage industry. It will
transform how investors access and trade UAE equity products.
The UAE financial markets are now as accessible as those in
 New York ,  London  and Hong Kong thanks to execution support
from SHUAA Capital and Bloomberg Tradebook’s global presence
through the Bloomberg Professional service, which is used by
more than 310,000 business and financial professionals.”  “The collaboration between one of our leading financial
institutions, SHUAA Capital, and a global leader of trading
technologies, Bloomberg Tradebook, is an important step in
further facilitating the accessibility of our financial
markets to global institutional investors and meeting their
evolving needs. This reinforces our efforts to create a
favorable trading environment and contributes to further
sophistication of the UAE financial markets,” said Essa Kazim,
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of  Dubai
Financial Market .  The Bloomberg Tradebook-SHUAA DMA platform provides
institutional investors with:  Algorithmic trading strategies tailored to UAE equity
products;  Consultative execution services that help traders navigate
liquidly venues; and  Trading solutions including high-touch, low-touch, basket
trading and trading analytics for enhanced execution
transparency.  For more information on the Bloomberg Tradebook-SHUAA DMA
electronic trading platform, please contact Dave Masullo of
Bloomberg Tradebook at  dmasullo2@bloomberg.net  or +44 20 7073
308 or Oliver Schutzmann of SHUAA Capital at
 oschutzmann@shuaacapital.com  or +971 50 640 5722.  About SHUAA Capital  Since 1979, SHUAA Capital has played a prominent role in
shaping the financial services landscape of the GCC and will
continue to be at the vanguard of regional integration into
global financial markets. SHUAA Capital maintains leadership
positions in  Investment Banking , Asset Management, Brokerage,
 Private Equity , Finance, and Research. Headquartered in Dubai,
in the United Arab Emirates, SHUAA Capital has a regional
presence with offices in Abu Dhabi,  Riyadh , Jeddah, Al Khobar,
Doha, Cairo and Amman. Embedded in the dynamic economic
environment of the GCC, SHUAA Capital provides a broad range
of financial services to corporations, governments,
institutional clients, and high net worth individuals. For
more information please visit  http://www.shuaacapital.com .  About Bloomberg Tradebook  Bloomberg Tradebook, partners with the buy-side and sell-side
to provide high-quality liquidity, market insight and
customized solutions based on innovative technologies.
Bloomberg Tradebook offers its customer base trading solutions
for equities, futures, options, and foreign exchange (FX) to
actively manage complex trading strategies across more than
100 global exchanges.  By providing direct access to
independent research analysts and commission management
services over the Bloomberg Professional service, Bloomberg
Tradebook connects traders to over 70 markets worldwide,
making it possible to trade equities, futures and options
across 41 countries, as well as 41 currency pairs on the FX
market place.  More information is available at
 http://www.bloombergtradebook.com/   Media Contacts  Vera Newhouse, Bloomberg L.P.,  vnewhouse@bloomberg.net , +1-
212-617-6420  Sophie Fischman, Cognito, U.S.,  Bloomberg@cognitomedia.com ,
+1-646-395-6300  Stuart Macaulay, Cognito, EMEA,
 BloombergEMEA@cognitomedia.com , +44-20-7438-1100  Anne Karumo, Cognito, APAC,  BloombergAsia@cognitomedia.com ,
+65-8112-6409  -- Bloomberg Press Room  #<261369.8049913.2.1.95.14779.2660>#
 