-- 
Silvercorp Overstated 2010 Net Income Fivefold, Report Alleges

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-19T20:51:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/silvercorp-falls-after-new-allegations-on-alfredlittle-com-1-.html
Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , a Canadian
miner of the metal in China, may have overstated its net income
by at least fivefold, according to an anonymous report posted on
a website.  Alfredlittle.com , which publishes research about companies
doing business in China, posted a report today that said
Vancouver-based Silvercorp and Henan Found Mining Co., an
operating subsidiary, may both have overstated their net income
in 2010.  Silvercorp, which describes itself as China’s largest
silver miner, has denied previous allegations posted on
Alfredlittle.com that questioned the quality of Silvercorp’s ore
and transactions with a related party. On Sept. 2, Silvercorp
denied allegations contained in an anonymous report that alleged
Silvercorp reported a profit in calendar 2010 to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission while posting a loss to
regulators in  China .  “All of the allegations made against Silvercorp have been
anonymous,” Silvercorp Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rui Feng said today in a statement. “All of the allegations are
baseless and designed to be manipulative.”  The new material on the Alfredlittle.com site is based in
part on Silvercorp’s response to the first posting, Simon Moore,
who said he’s a managing editor at Alfredlittle.com, said today
in a telephone interview.  “This is more of a detailed report, a more complete
report,” Moore said, declining to say where he was speaking
from.  Silvercorp rose 11 cents, or 1.6 percent, to C$6.92 at 4:10
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares have dropped
19 percent this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 