-- 
Sinohydro to Sell 3.5 Billion Shares in Shanghai From Sept. 26

-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 
2011-09-19T08:44:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/sinohydro-to-sell-3-5-billion-shares-in-shanghai-from-sept-26.html
Sinohydro Group Ltd., seeking to
fund 17.3 billion yuan of ($2.7 billion) projects, will start
selling shares next week in what may be  China ’s biggest initial
public offering in more than a year.  The nation’s biggest builder of dams will start selling as
many as 3.5 billion shares in  Shanghai  from Sept. 26, the
Beijing-based company said today in a statement to Shanghai’s
stock exchange. The shares will be priced on Sept. 23, it said.  Sinohydro is expanding overseas and in China, where it’s
building hydroelectric stations and wind farms as part of the
government’s push to reduce reliance on coal to fuel the world’s
second-largest economy. The sale comes at a time when the
Shanghai Composite Index has declined 13 percent this year amid
higher  interest rates  and a global economic slowdown.  “Such a large listing in a weak market will be a blow to
investor sentiment,” said Zhou Rong, an investment manager at
Shanghai Great Wisdom Co., an  investment adviser .  This year’s decline in the Shanghai gauge extends last
year’s 14 percent plunge, as the government increased measures
to cool inflation that’s at the highest in almost three years.  Shaanxi Coal Industry Co., which also plans a 17.3 billion
yuan IPO, received approval last month, according to a statement
on the China Securities Regulatory Commission website on Aug. 29.
Sany Heavy Industry Co. and Citic Securities Co. are pushing
ahead with share sales in Hong Kong, where companies have
canceled or delayed a record $14 billion of equity offerings
this year as stock markets tumble.  Sinohydro Offering  Sinohydro’s initial offering would be the biggest since
China Everbright Bank Co. raised 18.9 billion yuan in August
last year. The exercise of Everbright Bank’s over-allotment
option increased the amount it raised to 21.1 billion yuan.  Institutional investors can buy the shares from Sept. 26,
while subscription for retail investors opens Sept. 27,
Sinohydro said. China Securities Regulatory Commission, the
country’s stock market regulator, approved the IPO application
on July 29.  Sinohydro’s net income gained 27 percent last year to 2.91
billion yuan on increased demand for hydropower facilities, it
said in July. The company had 261 projects under construction in
55 countries at the end of last year, with overseas projects
accounting for 26 percent of the company’s revenue and 35
percent of gross profit, it said.  Overseas Projects  Proceeds from the share sale will help fund construction of
projects including a hydropower dam in the southwestern Chinese
province of Sichuan and a wind farm in the northern province of
Gansu, Sinohydro said in July. The Chinese company has also won
construction contracts in  Asia ,  Africa  and  South America .  The funds will also be used for a dam in Cambodia, the
company  said  in July.  Sinohydro is in talks to build a hydropower station in
Costa Rica,  China Daily  reported on Aug. 10, citing the Central
American nation’s ambassador to China. Sinohydro won a contract
in June 2010 to help  Ecuador  build a $1.68 billion hydropower
plant in the country’s Amazon region in what would be the Latin
American country’s biggest engineering project, Ecuador’s
Strategic Sectors Ministry said.  The Chinese dam builder signed a $2 billion framework
agreement with  Laos  to build seven dams along the 475-kilometer
(295-mile) Nam Ou river, a Mekong tributary, the Hong Kong-based
South China Morning Post reported in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  