-- 
Sinovel to Supply Turbines to Brazilian Wind Project

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-09-20T13:11:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/sinovel-first-chinese-turbine-maker-to-supply-brazil-wind-farm.html
(Corrects turbine price in fifth paragraph of story
published Sept. 19.)  Sinovel Wind Group Co., the world’s
second-biggest wind-turbine maker, will provide power equipment
to Desenvix SA as the Brazilian developer seeks to sell  wind
energy  at the world’s lowest price.  Desenvix will use 23 of Sinovel’s SL1500/82 turbines for
its 34.5-megawatt Barra dos Coqueiros wind farm in the
northeastern state of Sergipe, the Beijing-based turbine company
said today in an e-mailed statement.  This is the first South American developer to buy Chinese
 wind turbines , according to Eduardo Tabbush, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s London office. Developers agreed
last month to sell electricity from 44 wind farms in Brazil at
an average price of 99.58 reais ($55.88) a megawatt-hour, making
it the cheapest country-wide rate for wind energy.  “Some developers may be forced to buy Chinese technology
to reduce costs,” Tabbush said. Turbines can account for as
much as 75 percent of a wind farm’s costs.  Chinese turbines can cost $1.12 million a megawatt in
 Brazil , 14 percent below the global average price, Maria
Gabriela da Rocha Oliveira, an analyst at New Energy Finance,
said today in an e-mail.  Of the 1.9 gigawatts of wind projects that signed power-
supply contracts during two August auctions, about half hadn’t
lined up a turbine supplier a week later, according to New
Energy Finance. That means Chinese manufactures may have “a
window of opportunity,” Oliveira said.  Sinovel is also planning to build a factory in Brazil,
according to the statement.  Higher labor costs in Brazil may drive up its turbine
prices there, Tabbush said. “You can’t employ workers in Brazil
for 100 euros ($137) a month like you can in  China .”  The turbines will be delivered by December and Desenvix
expects to have the wind farm operating by July.  “The Chinese dragon is coming,” Jose Antunes Sobrinho,
President of Barueri-based Desenvix, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  