-- 
SMA Solar Slumps to 2-Year Low in Frankfurt After Reducing Outlook

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-09-19T16:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/sma-solar-shares-slump-to-two-year-low-after-lowering-outlook.html
SMA Solar Technology AG (S92) ,  Germany ’s
biggest solar-power company by market value, dropped to a two-
year low in Frankfurt trading after reducing its profit forecast
amid weaker-than-expected demand for rooftop systems.  SMA plunged 12 percent to 49.25 euros at 5:30 p.m. local
time, the lowest closing price since Sept. 2, 2009. The company
expects earnings before interest and tax of 220 million euros
($300 million) to 300 million euros in fiscal 2011, down from an
earlier estimate of 315 million euros to 475 million euros.  “The demand for solar power plants has only marginally
improved in many solar markets after the summer months,”
Niestetal-based SMA said in a statement. “Contrary to managing-
board expectations, SMA has established only a minor upturn in
the high-volume business of solar inverters for roof systems.”  SMA is the biggest maker of inverters, devices that convert
electricity generated in solar panels for the grid. It’s among
solar companies including Bonn-based Solarworld AG to experience
slumping sales in  Europe , where Germany, Italy and  France  have
cut premiums paid for power from panels over the past 12 months.  Power-One Inc. (PWER) , a Camarillo, California-based peer of SMA,
fell as much as 6.9 percent in  New York , and traded down 4.4
percent at $6.48 as of 11:30 a.m. local time. Suntech Power
Holdings Co. and LDK Solar Co., the world’s biggest solar-panel
producers, each dropped as much as 10 percent.  Drag on Market  “SMA’s outlook has always been a very reliable indicator
for the overall market and that’s why you see most solar
companies falling today,” said Lars Dannenberg, an analyst at
Berenberg Bank in  London . The solar market slump may cut
Germany’s installations to about 5 gigawatts this year, he said.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance, a London-based researcher,
estimated in March that Germany would install at least 6
gigawatts of panels in 2011, followed by Italy with at least 4.5
gigawatts.  SMA shares have tumbled 29 percent this year, outperforming
a 45 percent decline in the Global Leaders Solar Inverter Index.  On Aug. 12, SMA jumped 18 percent after posting first-half
earnings that beat analyst estimates and forecasting higher
demand in the second half. Today, it reported a “pleasing
development” in the market for large-scale solar  power plants ,
adding that it can’t compensate for the “weak commercial order
situation.”  The company also revised its sales outlook, reducing its
target to as much as 1.7 billion euros for fiscal 2011 from an
earlier estimate of as much as 1.9 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  