-- 
South African Yields Rise to 7-Week High Before Debt Auction

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-19T11:25:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/south-african-yields-rise-to-7-week-high-before-debt-auction.html
South African bond yields rose to
the highest since the beginning of August before tomorrow’s
government debt auction as concern over  Europe ’s banks prompts
investors to pull money from emerging markets.  The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank is selling 1.1 billion rand
($145 million) of 10.5 percent securities maturing in 2026 and 1
billion rand of 6.5 percent bonds due 2041. The secondary-market
yield on the 2026 notes climbed 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage point, to 8.38 percent by 12:49 p.m. in Johannesburg,
the highest on a closing basis since Aug. 1.  Investors are reducing demand for riskier assets amid
concern that European lenders may face funding problems as
Greece struggles to avoid a debt default. Foreign investors sold
6.4 billion rand of South African bonds last week, the most
since the week ending Jan. 14, according to the JSE Ltd.  “Indications of a delay in the loan to  Greece  have spooked
markets all over again,” Tradition Analytics strategists led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a research note.
“At the start of this week we now reset to a higher level of
risk.”  After a two-day meeting of European Union finance ministers
and central bankers that ended Sept. 17, Sweden’s Anders Borg
said Greece hasn’t done enough to meet its budget targets. EU
and International Monetary Fund officials meet today with Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos to judge whether his
government is eligible for its next aid payment.  Inflation Concern  Bonds extended declines on speculation rising inflation may
reduce the central bank’s room to cut  interest rates  to revive a
flagging economy.  Consumer prices rose at a rate of 5.5 percent in August,
from 5.3 percent in July, according to the median estimate of 19
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The  Reserve Bank ’s Monetary
Policy Committee will leave its rate at 5.5 percent on Sept. 22,
according to 19 economists polled by Bloomberg.  “Given that price pressures are rising, we consider the
policy easing cycle to have bottomed and the see the Reserve
Bank tightening policy form the third quarter of 2012,”
Standard Bank Group Ltd. analysts led by Johannesburg-based
Michael Keenan wrote in a research note.  Tomorrow’s auction is at 11 a.m. and the results will be
announced at about 11:30 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  