-- 
Spain’s Loterias Starts Marketing for $9.6 Billion Initial Public Offering

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-09-19T09:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/spain-s-loterias-starts-marketing-for-9-6-billion-initial-public-offering.html
Sociedad Estatal Loterias &
Apuestas del Estado SA,  Spain ’s national lottery operator, began
gauging investor interest for its initial public offering today
as the state seeks funds in a deepening debt crisis.  Spain may sell as much as 30 percent of Loterias, according
to a term sheet for the sale. The IPO may raise as much as 7
billion euros ($9.6 billion), the most in Spain’s history, said
a person with knowledge of the deal, though the price hasn’t
been set. Loterias will price the IPO around Oct. 17, said the
person, who declined to be identified as the process is private.  Loterias is wooing investors by offering more than 80
percent of its profit in dividends, said two people close to the
deal. Spain aims to use the proceeds of the sale to shrink
borrowing needs as the government reins in the euro region’s
biggest budget deficit after Greece and Ireland.  At least 24 IPOs were postponed or canceled in western
 Europe  this year, almost twice as many as a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors are shunning
new stock sales as concerns over burgeoning European sovereign
debt pushed the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index down to near
its lowest level in two years.  Loterias, which had 2.6 billion euros of profit in 2010,
will list on exchanges in Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao and
Valencia, according to the term sheet obtained by Bloomberg. The
30 percent stake offered by the government includes a so-called
overallotment option, which will account for as much as 10
percent of the base amount, the terms show.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  are lead managers for the IPO, Loterias said
in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  