-- 
Spanish Strike May Provide Taste of 2012 Protests to Come After Election

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-09-20T11:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/spanish-teachers-strike-may-provide-foretaste-of-2012-protests.html
Spanish teachers went on strike
against budget cuts today as labor unions prepare to fight
austerity measures that opposition leader  Mariano Rajoy  has
pledged to implement if he wins the general election.  Teachers are protesting longer classroom hours in Madrid, a
region already governed by the  People’s Party  that is in
opposition nationally and leading Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s Socialists in polls before the Nov. 20
vote. Forty-three percent of teachers participated in the
strike, according to estimates from the regional education
department. Jose Campos, head of education at union Comisiones
Obreras, said 85 percent joined in.  The walkout may foreshadow a surge in unrest that Rajoy
would have to face down to push through the austerity measures
and labor-market overhaul he has pledged, said Antonio Barroso,
a London-based analyst at Eurasia Group, which monitors
political risk. Rajoy, 56, says he will implement similar
policies to his party’s regional leaders, who have slashed
spending and reduced union subsidies since winning local
elections in May.  “It’s creating the mood for what’s going to happen in the
first two quarters of next year,” Barroso said in a telephone
interview from  London . “Trade unions will mobilize against
Rajoy’s government more than they did against Zapatero as they
tend to react more to rightwing governments.”  Teaching Hours  Teachers in the region of Madrid plan to strike for three
days to protest a two-hour increase in their weekly classroom
time and cuts to temporary staff. Walkouts are also planned in
Galicia, where the PP is increasing teaching hours, while
demonstrations are programmed across the country.  Teachers are set to march in Castilla-La Mancha, the region
that PP deputy leader Maria Dolores de Cospedal won in May after
three decades of Socialist rule. Cospedal is also making
teachers spend a larger proportion of their working week in the
classroom and axing subsidies for unions as she aims to slash
the region’s deficit to 1.3 percent of its output next year,
from 6.5 percent in 2010, without raising taxes.  Rajoy will cut tax for companies and reduce “superfluous”
spending by the administration “rather like the regions run by
the PP are doing,” he said yesterday in an interview with
 Cadena Ser .  Provocation Risk  That risks provoking the unions, which tolerated public-
wage cuts and a freeze on pensions implemented by Zapatero, who
boasted of being a union member as recently as 2005.  Unions’ patience wore out when Zapatero reneged on a pledge
not to cut firing costs and only then did they call the first
general strike against him on Sept. 29, 2010. The walkout
received scant support and the government pressed ahead with its
plans. By contrast, the previous general strike against a PP
government in 2002 was strong enough to force the government to
backtrack on changes to labor rules.  “If the PP wins and it applies the same measures
everywhere,” as it has in the regions it governs, “there will
be much stronger mobilization still,” Campos said in a
telephone interview yesterday. His union is one of the two
biggest in  Spain .  Opinion polls suggest Rajoy will clinch enough votes to
gain an outright majority in Parliament. His PP would win 44.8
percent if elections were held now, daily El Pais reported on
Sept. 12, citing a poll. The Socialists, who have run minority
governments since 2004, would take 30.7 percent, according to
the survey, which had a margin of error of 3.2 percentage
points.  Conflict ‘Inevitable’  Rajoy will inherit an unemployment rate of 21 percent, the
highest in  Europe , and public accounts that showed the euro
region’s largest budget deficit after Greece and Ireland last
year. His challenge is to convince investors he can prevent
Spain needing a bailout while keeping voters and unions onside.  “Conflict is inevitable,” Javier Del Rey Morato, a
political communication professor at  Madrid ’s Complutense
University, said in a phone interview. “There’ll be popular
resistance to any rightwing policies put forward by the right:
they’re more forgiving when it’s a politician who says he’s a
leftist.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net 
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  