-- 
Stalled Bank Mergers May Thwart Danish Plan to Skip Bail-Ins

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-09-20T11:05:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/stalled-bank-mergers-may-hurt-danish-efforts-to-avoid-failures.html
Danish lawmaker efforts to spur
bank consolidation and help lenders avoid  Europe ’s toughest
resolution laws may be stalling, raising the risk of more
insolvencies and senior creditor losses in the Nordic country.  This month’s bank rescue bill, Denmark’s fourth since 2008,
won’t trigger the wave of consolidation lawmakers had targeted
as local bank managers resist takeovers and potential buyers
seek more inducements to merge as they view balance sheets with
mistrust, according to the local lenders group, the country’s
financial regulator and bankers who advise on takeovers.  “Some mid-sized banks are looking for targets to buy, but
none of the other mid-sized or smaller ones are willing to
sell,” Arne Due-Hansen, director of SEB AB’s corporate finance
unit in Copenhagen, said in an interview. The bank has been the
busiest dealmaker in  Denmark  in the past decade, having advised
on 83 mergers and acquisitions in the period, according to
Bloomberg data.  Seven months after the failure of Amagerbanken A/S
triggered the European Union’s first senior bank creditor losses
within a resolution framework, Denmark’s bank industry is
showing few signs of recovery. The crisis, which has engulfed
regional lenders with non-performing property and farming loans,
risks undermining any economic rebound as a frozen housing
market saps consumers’ confidence.  Bumpy Road  “The road back from a recession that’s combined with a
serious bank crisis takes time and can be bumpy,” the central
bank said in its quarterly report today. The financial crisis
will cost Denmark 12 percent in lost production from 2009
through 2013, measured as a percentage of gross domestic
product, the bank said.  Denmark’s banks are struggling to emerge from the country’s
financial crisis as Europe’s lenders face a deteriorating
funding environment amid concern the region’s debt crisis is
getting worse. That’s threatening to exacerbate Denmark’s
chances of recovery as investors shun all but the safest
markets.  “In a climate where there is still a lot of uncertainty
relating to the value of the loan book, that is a show-
stopper,” Ulrik Noedgaard, director general at the Danish
Financial Supervisory Authority, said in an interview. “When
you have banks that have taken too much risk, they somehow need
to have a reasonable economic climate if they are to get through
it, and that’s not what we have.”  Share Declines  Shares in Danske Bank A/S, Denmark’s biggest lender, have
slumped 50 percent this year. That compares with a 34 percent
decline in the 46-member Bloomberg index of European banks in
the period. Stockholm-based Nordea Bank AB has lost 28 percent.
The cost to protect Danske’s senior bonds from default is 52
percent higher than equivalent contracts on debt sold by Nordea.  Default swaps on Danish government debt have soared 50
percent since the beginning of August, compared with a 39
percent rise for German contracts, according to CMA. Swedish CDS
gained 31 percent in the period.  Lawmakers in Copenhagen this month passed a bill that will
allow banks to tap funds from the Depositor Guarantee Scheme to
finance takeovers of peers facing insolvency. Such mergers would
also allow the acquiring bank to extend its state-backed
guarantee beyond 2013.  The measures aren’t enough, according to Claus E. Petersen,
the deputy chairman of the Association of Local Banks.  Diluting Capital  “They tried hard to change some of the conditions that
went wrong” in the resolution package of October, which
introduced the bail-in rules, Petersen said in an interview.
“But at the same time, there are some tools missing that would
help consolidation along.”  He wants the government, which has pledged not to use
taxpayer funds to rescue lenders, to supplement lenders’ capital
buffers and ensure acquiring banks don’t see their solvency
ratios diluted by purchasing a weaker peer.  “No one was any desire to weaken their position right
now,” Petersen said. “No one else but the state can provide
the capital.”  According to Thomas Hovard, a chief corporate bond analyst
at Danske Securities in Copenhagen, part of the problem is that
troubled lenders are resisting mergers in an effort to stay
independent.  “It’s a marketing strategy. It’s a plus word, being local,
and they really stick to that,” he said. “Clearly it would be
destroyed if they were to consolidate with a bigger bank or a
smaller one outside of their area.”  No Coffee  Spar Nord Bank A/S, Denmark’s fourth-largest listed lender,
hasn’t been able to find takeover targets as it seeks to add
branches in the greater Copenhagen area.  “We’re still looking to expand our geographical presence
and we always talk to people who want to talk, even over a cup
of coffee,” Ole Madsen, director of communications for the
Aalborg-based lender, said in an interview. “But hardly anybody
ever calls asking to have coffee with us these days.”  Fjordbank Mors A/S, which in June became the second Danish
lender to fail under the country’s bail-in laws, had ranked
riskiest in a list of 99 banks compiled by research firm Niro
Invest Aps earlier the same month. Aarhus Lokalbank A/S ranked
98th, followed by  Max Bank (MAX)  A/S and Basisbank A/S. Shares of
Aarhus Lokalbank have plunged 74 percent this year. Max Bank has
lost 71 percent. Basisbank isn’t listed.  “You might do some due diligence on the other bank’s loan
book, but you can never actually feel quite sure,” Noedgaard of
the FSA said. “This uncertainty relating to the value of loan
books is probably a major impediment to further mergers.”  The FSA is stepping up efforts to stop some of Denmark’s
lenders from abusing regulatory loopholes and understating
losses, Noedgaard said in an August interview. Amagerbanken and
Fjordbank Mors failed after the FSA told the two lenders to
write down 1.9 billion kroner ($371 million) more in bad
property and farming loans than stated in their accounts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  