-- 
Starbucks CEO Schultz to Add Coffee Shops in Latin America

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-09-19T13:24:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/starbucks-ceo-says-brazil-is-big-opportunity.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s
largest coffee-shop chain, aims to add stores in  Latin America ,
especially Brazil, after focusing expansion in past years more
on Asia, Chief Executive Officer Howard Schultz said.  Starbucks has about $2 billion in cash to invest in an
“aggressive and opportunistic way,” Schultz said today,
speaking at a book presentation in Madrid.  “Over the last few years our push has been more toward
Asia than Latin America,” the CEO of the Seattle-based company
said. “We are now going back and examining where those
opportunities are, specifically in Brazil. We are looking at
that very closely.”  Starbucks, which gets more than 20 percent of its sales
from outside the U.S., has accelerated openings in  China  to tap
demand from China’s growing middle class. The coffee brewer
plans to more than triple its store count in mainland China to
1,500 locations by 2015, Starbucks said earlier this year.  The executive said he is more optimistic about the company
than ever and the strongest growth is coming from China, Schultz
said.  Schultz said he is “cautiously optimistic” about business
in western  Europe  and Spain, where unemployment rates remain the
highest in Europe at 21 percent. Starbucks will “aggressively”
open more stores in Europe, including Spain, “over time”, he
said.  Starbucks may grow through acquisitions, Schultz
reiterated.  “For the first time in our history there could potentially
be acquisitions as part of the growth of the company,” he said.
“We have a very strong balance sheet with no debt, and it may
be interesting for Starbucks to acquire some companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  