-- 
SK Telecom Is Left as Sole Bidder for Hynix Semiconductor as STX Pulls Out

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-09-20T09:16:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/stx-scraps-plan-to-buy-stake-in-hynix-leaving-sk-telecom-as-sole-bidder.html
SK Telecom Co.,  South Korea ’s
largest wireless carrier, was the only suitor left to bid for a
controlling stake of  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  as shareholders
stuck to their sale plan even after STX Group pulled out.  The South Korean shipbuilding and shipping group dropped
out amid global economic uncertainties and concerns over
investments needed to keep the chipmaker competitive, STX Corp.
said in a statement yesterday. The 20 percent stake for sale,
totaling 146.1 million shares, is valued at 3.2 trillion won
($2.8 billion) based on Hynix’s latest closing price.  STX Chairman Kang Duk Soo’s withdrawal removes the only
competition SK Telecom Chairman Chey Tae Won faced in making a
bid in defiance of analysts at brokerages including Morgan
Stanley and CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, who opposed the idea of a
phone carrier buying control of a chipmaker. Hynix’s main
shareholders, having failed to sell their stake three times
since 2009, said today they will proceed with the planned sale.  “Pricing is less of a problem in open bidding, but if they
sell it to SK Telecom through a private deal, there could be
some noise,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at
Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which oversees about
$29 billion. “That will likely be the key issue.”  Hynix, the world’s largest maker of computer-memory chips
after Samsung Electronics Co., rose 3.1 percent to 21,650 won at
the 3:00 p.m. close in Seoul trading. STX Corp. closed unchanged
while SK Telecom declined 2.3 percent.  ‘Reasonable’ Decision  Lauren Kim, a Seoul-based spokeswoman for SK Telecom,
declined to comment on Hynix shareholders’ announcement today.
The carrier will review the results of its due diligence, the
outlook for the chip industry and details of sale conditions to
make a “reasonable” decision, she said yesterday.  The stakeholders will proceed to sell their stake and
receive a final bid by Oct. 24 as scheduled,  Korea Exchange Bank (004940) 
said in an e-mailed statement today.  The sale’s outcome now “depends on what SK Telecom does,”
said Song Myung Sup, a Seoul-based analyst at HI Investment &
Securities Co.  SK Telecom appears more likely to be selected as the
preferred bidder,  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement today.  Middle East Partner  STX said delays in reaching an agreement with its Middle
Eastern bidding partner over investment in Hynix were also a
factor that contributed to its decision. STX had been in talks
with Aabar, a state-run United Arab Emirates investment company.  Park Seong Ae, a Seoul-based spokeswoman for Hynix,
declined to comment on STX’s decision.  Hynix shareholders, led by Korea Exchange Bank, said this
month they plan to sell a 20 percent stake that includes 101.85
million new shares and 44.25 million existing ones held by
shareholders.  The shareholders, a group of financial institutions that
spent $4.6 billion to bail out the chipmaker in the past decade,
had planned to receive bids for Hynix by Oct. 24 and select a
preferred bidder by the end of October.  Hyosung Corp. (004800) , the sole bidder in a sale attempt in 2009,
walked away from negotiations in November that year, saying
speculation that it received political favors to pursue the
takeover made it difficult to negotiate a fair acquisition. Two
subsequent attempts by creditors to sell their Hynix stake
failed after no bidders emerged. In 2002,  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) 
scrapped a $3 billion takeover offer after it was rejected by
Hynix’s board.  Rebuked by Analysts  SK Telecom shares on Aug. 10 fell to as low as 131,000 won,
the lowest close in almost 12 years, tumbling 18 percent over
five weeks after the Seoul Economic Daily reported that that  SK
Group  was considering a bid for Hynix. The stock has since
recovered most of those losses.  In the days following SK Telecom’s announcement it may bid,
analysts at CLSA, Morgan Stanley,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Samsung Securities Co. cut their ratings on the stock, while
Daishin Securities Co., Daiwa Securities Group Inc. and  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  lowered their price estimates.  ‘May Be Impaired’  Fitch Ratings said today if SK Telecom buys the stake with
debt, “the company’s credit strength may be impaired,” echoing
Standard & Poor’s July statement that the purchase would
undermine the phone company’s credit rating.  SK Telecom and STX’s interest in Hynix renewed concerns
South Korean business groups known as the chaebol were reviving
practices of over-expansion that led to the financial crisis in
the late 90s,  Shaun Cochran , head of Korea research at CLSA,
said in July.  While supporters praise the chaebol for pulling the country
out of poverty from the 1950 to 1953  Korean War  and transforming
it into  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy, the  International
Monetary Fund  cited the debt-driven chaebol model as part of the
reason the nation’s economy landed in a financial crisis at the
end of 1997.  Should the disposal amount exceed 2.56 trillion won, it
would rank as the largest share sale of a Korean technology
company since July 1999, when Hynix bought a majority holding in
Hyundai Microelectronics Co., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “SK Telecom and shareholders are now going to have to have
one-on-one talks,” said Shin Hyun Joon, a Seoul-based analyst
at Dongbu Securities Co. Because of reduced competition, “you
can’t rule out the possibility that the sale could fall
through,” Shin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  