-- 
Sudan and South Sudan Move to Ease Tensions With Border Accord

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 
2011-09-19T09:15:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/sudan-and-south-sudan-move-to-ease-tensions-with-border-accord.html
Sudan  and its newly independent
neighbor, South Sudan, took a step toward easing tensions along
their common border by signing a security accord that will
create a demilitarized zone.  “The signing of this agreement over the hot-spot border
area means the two states are willing to negotiate and are
recognizing the need to cooperate,”  Fouad Hikmat , the Sudan
special adviser at the Brussels-based  International Crisis
Group , said today by phone from  Ethiopia ’s capital,  Addis Ababa .  The agreement, announced yesterday in the Sudanese capital,
Khartoum, will open 10 border crossings in the buffer zone along
the 2,200-kilometer (1,367-mile) border, state-run SUNA news
agency reported. Six members each from both sides’ armies and
six Ethiopian peacekeepers will monitor the area, it said.  Clashes in the Sudanese border states of Southern Kordofan
and Blue Nile erupted over the past three months after President
Umar al-Bashir’s government tried to disarm soldiers who fought
during a two-decade civil war with the forces of South Sudan,
which gained independence on July 9.  Fighting started on June 5 in Southern Kordofan, Sudan’s
main oil-producing state, forcing more than 150,000 people to
flee their homes, according to  Amnesty International  and  Human
Rights Watch .  State of Emergency  Blue Nile’s violence drove as many as 100,000 people from
their homes, the UN News Centre reported Sept. 13. The
authorities in Khartoum fired the state governor and declared a
state of emergency in the area.  The security agreement doesn’t guarantee the two sides will
immediately reach a solution on the “escalating situation in
the Blue Nile Southern Kordofan states,” Hikmat said.  “It means Sudan’s ruling party might be willing to sit at
the negotiations table, and that’s what we’ll see over the next
few weeks,” he said.  The  United Nations Security Council  voted on June 27 to
deploy 4,200 Ethiopian soldiers to the disputed border region of
Abyei, to allow the withdrawal of forces from the two countries.
Sudan’s army seized the main town in Abyei on May 21 after
accusing southern security forces of attacking its troops.  Cooperation over the borders, according to Hikmat, means
the two sides may be able to reach agreements on other issues
such as oil.  Sudan, which produces about 115,000 barrels of oil a day,
lost control of about 375,000 barrels of daily production to
South Sudan when it was declared independent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  