-- 
Swiss Lower House Approves Curbing Risks at UBS, Credit Suisse

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-19T15:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/swiss-lower-house-approves-curbing-risks-at-ubs-credit-suisse.html
Swiss lawmakers in the lower house
of Parliament approved proposals to curb risk-taking at  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the country’s biggest banks.  Swiss rule-makers are running ahead of counterparts in the
U.S. and  Europe  to make sure UBS and rival Credit Suisse cut
risks and hoard capital to avert the type of banking collapse
that hobbled Iceland’s economy. Today’s decision paves the way
for final approval by both houses of Parliament next week.  “The decision stresses the solidity of Switzerland and its
banking sector,” said Stefan Brupbacher, secretary general of
the Swiss Liberals. “It shows that our country is a frontrunner
when it comes to regulation in times where other countries are
backtracking on curbing bank risks.”  The Swiss Parliament is voting on proposals to limit risk-
taking after UBS last week said it may be unprofitable in the
third quarter after the loss from “unauthorized trading” at
its investment bank. The loss, less than two months after Chief
Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  said the bank had “one of the
best” risk-management units in the industry, exposed flaws in
its controls.  UBS and smaller rival Credit Suisse will have to hold
capital equal to at least 19 percent of assets, weighted
according to risk, by 2019, according to the bill. That’s almost
double the percentage proposed by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  for banks deemed too big to fail.  Restore Confidence  Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf last week
said that making banks safer will “restore confidence” in
Switzerland as a financial center. Both chambers of Parliament
will have a final vote on the bill on Sept. 30.  Widmer-Schlumpf rebuffed proposals from the  Social
Democrats  in the wake of the UBS trading loss to restrict
proprietary trading and investment banking.  “Banks still should have economic freedom as long as they
have sound operations and they are able to bear the risk,” she
said. “If that isn’t the case anymore, our proposal allows for
the banks to be split up in order to minimize risk.”  A Swiss government-appointed panel last year rejected
proposals to break up the two Zurich-based banks or directly
limit their size and activities.  The Swiss government’s efforts come amid global attempts to
strengthen banks’ balance sheets. The Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision in June said systemically important banks must hold
as much as 2.5 percentage points as a surcharge. In the U.K., an
independent commission last week recommended that banks build
fire breaks between their consumer and investment banks.  Trading Loss  UBS’s trading loss deals a blow to Gruebel’s attempts to
revive the investment bank after the division recorded 57.1
billion Swiss francs ($65 billion) in cumulative pretax losses
in three years through 2009.  Switzerland  rescued UBS in 2008, investing 6 billion francs
to help the bank spin off $39 billion of toxic assets into a
central bank fund. Credit Suisse declined government assistance.  UBS and Credit Suisse will have to meet higher liquidity
requirements, according to the government proposals. They must
also ensure that domestic retail-banking operations are
maintained independently in case of a potential insolvency.  The proposals, which were supported by Switzerland’s upper
house in the summer session, will be debated by a joint
commission in Parliament next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  