-- 
Syracuse, Pittsburgh to Join Atlantic Coast Conference, Leaving Big East

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/syracuse-pittsburgh-to-join-atlantic-coast-conference-leaving-big-east.html
Syracuse University  and the
University of Pittsburgh are joining the Atlantic Coast
Conference and leaving the Big East in the latest shakeup of
league affiliations in college sports.  Syracuse and Pittsburgh were extended invitations yesterday
after the ACC’s council of presidents unanimously accepted their
applications. Syracuse was one of the Big East’s founding
schools in 1979, and Pittsburgh joined the conference in 1982.  The addition of the two longtime Big East schools brings
the  ACC ’s membership to 14 schools and Commissioner John Swofford said the league would consider expanding to 16. The
moves come after the Pac-12 and Big Ten both added schools this
year, Texas A&M accepted an invitation to the  Southeastern
Conference  and universities such as Texas and  Oklahoma  are
considering leaving the Big 12 Conference.  “In all my years of college athletics administration, I’ve
never seen this level of uncertainty and potential fluidity
among schools and conferences,” Swofford said on a conference
call yesterday. “Schools are looking for stability. When that
doesn’t exist for whatever reason, I think the conferences that
appear to be stable moving forward are going to receive
inquiries from schools that are desirous of having that kind of
stability.”  Swofford said the addition of Syracuse and Pittsburgh will
enhance the ACC’s reach into New York and  Pennsylvania  and
“geographically bridges our footprint” between Maryland and
 Massachusetts . A date for the move hasn’t been set, as Big East
rules require schools to pay a $5 million exit fee and give 27
months notice before leaving.  “I would think that in the weeks ahead, everyone will be
looking at the transition period and trying to determine whether
the 27-month notice period really serves everyone’s best
interests,” Pittsburgh Chancellor Mark Nordenberg said on the
conference call.  Previous ACC Expansion  The ACC’s last expansion resulted in almost two years of
litigation, as the  University of Miami  and Virginia Tech
accepted invitations in June 2003 and  Boston College  got an
invitation four months later. All three left the Big East.  “The ACC provides Syracuse tremendous opportunities for
quality competition and growth in all sports, while also
renewing some of our historic rivalries,” Syracuse President
and Chancellor Nancy Cantor said in a  statement . “Overall, for
Syracuse, this opportunity provides long-term conference
stability in what is an uncertain, evolving and rapidly shifting
national landscape.”  With the addition of Syracuse and Pitt, the ACC will be
able to renegotiate its 12-year, $1.86 billion television
contract with ESPN and ABC that started this year.  ‘A Positive Impact’  “It doesn’t allow us to go to the street with an open bid,
but it does allow us to reopen our negotiations with ESPN,”
Swofford said. “And we’re confident that that will have a
positive impact.”  ESPN reported  that the  University of Connecticut  is
pursuing membership in the ACC, citing an unidentified person
with direct knowledge of the situation. An ACC official told USA
Today that  Connecticut  and  Rutgers University  in  New Jersey 
would be candidates if the league expands to 16 schools. Both
are now in the Big East.  The Big East is the nation’s biggest and one of its most
powerful basketball conferences, with 16 schools, including
Notre Dame and non-football members such as Georgetown, St.
John’s, Villanova and Marquette. The Big East, which has eight
schools for football, had gone six straight years with no
membership changes.  “Conference expansion and realignment has been a subject
of public speculation for the last several months and will
continue to be so in the future, for years most likely,”
Connecticut President Susan Herbst said in a statement released
by the university. “It is not close to being over, so we need
to have some patience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  