-- 
Syria Security Forces Kill 75 Demonstrators Over Four Days, Activist Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-09-19T13:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/syrian-security-forces-kill-70-demonstrtors-over-three-days-activist-says.html
Syrian forces have killed at least
75 protesters demanding the ouster of President Bashar al-Assad
in the last four days, amid a meeting of opposition groups that
are pushing to unite against the government.  At least five people died today in the Houla area of the
central governorate of Homs after nine were killed in the
country yesterday, 11 the day before and 50 on Sept. 16, said
Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights.
Most of the recent violence has taken place in Homs, the west-
central governorate of Hama, the northern province of Idlib and
suburbs of the capital, Damascus, he said by phone.  About 300 Assad opponents from across the country held a
weekend conference in  Syria  and elected an 80-member council
that will set up an executive bureau of 25, Merhi said.
Opposition groups also met in Istanbul Sept. 15 and formed a
national council of more than 100 members, 70 of them in exile.
Representatives are from the Sunni, Shiite, Alawite, Druze and
Christian communities, the Kurdish minority and the Muslim
Brotherhood.  This year’s crackdown on dissent has left more than 3,600
civilians dead, according to Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria. About 30,000 people have
been detained and 13,000 of whom are still being held, according
to estimates from Qurabi and Merhi.  International Sanctions  Assad, who inherited power from his father 11 years ago,
faces the biggest challenge to his rule as international
pressure to end the violence increases. U.S. and European
leaders have stepped up their own sanctions, including bans on
oil exports, and urged him to cede power. The measures haven’t
halted the suppression of what Syria’s government calls foreign-
backed terrorism.  United Nations  Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told reporters
at the UN in  New York  last week that “enough is enough”
regarding the violence in Syria. “The international community
has repeatedly appealed to President Assad to stop, most
recently the foreign ministers of the  Arab League ,” he said.
“He must now listen to such urgent calls.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut  at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 