-- 
U.S. Asked to Blacklist 305 Yukos Attackers by Russian Activists

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-09-19T11:17:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/u-s-asked-to-blacklist-305-yukos-attackers-by-russian-activists.html
Russian human-rights activists and
opposition politicians have called on the  U.S. Senate  to
blacklist 305 officials in  Russia  involved in the prosecution of
Yukos Oil Co. and its owner  Mikhail Khodorkovsky .  In a letter sent to Senate Majority leader Harry Reid and
Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry , the
activists asked them to include the officials in legislation
targeting human rights abusers in Russia, according to a copy of
the petition posted on Khodorkovsky’s website.  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration in July
implemented a visa ban on a number of Russian officials after a
similar request to punish human rights abusers. Russia warned it
would retaliate, threatening to undermine the “reset” in
relations between the two countries.  “We believe it’s realistic because the Republicans are
very committed” to action on human rights, Vladimir Ryzkhov, a
leader of the Parnas opposition party, said of the sanctions
over the Yukos case. “We hope that in the framework of
compromise on budget cuts and taxes, the Obama administration
will agree to this step.”  Fourteen senators in May submitted a bipartisan bill that
would impose a visa ban and asset freeze on 60 Russian officials
implicated in the death of anti-corruption lawyer Sergei Magnitsky in a Moscow jail, as well as others guilty of human
rights violations.  Human Rights Court  Khodorkovsky, 48, whose fortune was once estimated at $15
billion by Forbes magazine, was convicted of fraud and  tax
evasion  in 2005 and oil embezzlement in December 2010, charges
he says were revenge for his financing of opposition parties.
The tycoon, who was arrested in 2003, faces a total of 13 years
in prison.  Yukos, once Russia’s biggest oil exporter, was declared
bankrupt in 2006, facing $30 billion of tax claims, and sold off
in pieces. State-owned OAO Rosneft controls most of its former
oil production and refining assets.  The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg,  France ,
is due to rule tomorrow on a lawsuit filed by former management
of Yukos seeking about $100 billion in compensation for what
they say were illegal tax probes that led to the company’s
liquidation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  