-- 
U.S. Air Force to Lift Flight Ban on Lockheed’s F-22 Raptor

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-19T22:08:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/u-s-air-force-to-lift-flight-ban-on-lockheed-s-f-22-raptor-1-.html
The U.S.  Air Force  will resume
flights of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-22 Raptor this week, which
has been grounded for four months after pilots suffered symptoms
related to oxygen deprivation.  “We now have enough insight from recent studies and
investigations that a return to flight is prudent and
appropriate,” said Air Force Chief of Staff General Norton Schwartz in a written statement.  “We’re managing the risks with our air crews, and we’re
continuing to study the F-22’s oxygen systems and collect data
to improve its performance,” he said. Returning to flight Sept.
21, pilots will use additional safety equipment and undergo
physiological tests.  The flight ban was imposed on May 3 as a safety precaution
after 12 separate incidents in which pilots experienced
“hypoxia-like symptoms” associated with lack of oxygen,
according to a statement from Air Combat Command. Oxygen
deprivation can lead to disorientation or blackouts.  A continuing Air Force investigation found that, under
certain conditions,  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ’s On-Board
Oxygen Generating System “does not deliver oxygen as designed
to the pilot, which could result in hypoxia and decreased flight
safety,” the written notification said.  Even so, it said the probe “failed to reveal a single,
definitive root cause for the hypoxia-like symptoms.”  ‘More Reliable’ System  Honeywell, based in  Morris Township ,  New Jersey , said on
its website that its oxygen system “is more reliable, safer and
requires much less maintenance than a comparable stored-gas
system.”  Lockheed Martin spokeswoman Alison Orne said the company
was pleased with the Air Force decision.“We are committed to
supporting our customer in getting the world’s premier air
dominance fighter, and the men and women who fly them,
safely back in the air,” she said in an e-mailed statement.  Honeywell spokesman Christopher Barker referred questions
about the investigation of the oxygen system to the Air Force.  The entire F-22 fleet will undergo “an extensive
inspection of the life-support systems before returning to
flight,” the Air Combat Command statement said.  The Air Force has fielded 170 F-22 jets as of May. The
stealth plane first entered  service  in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  