-- 
Chevron Victory Blocking $18 Billion Verdict Is Thrown Out in U.S.

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-20T04:20:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/u-s-appeals-court-sets-aside-chevron-victory-blocking-18-billion-award.html
A U.S. court ruling blocking
enforcement of an Ecuadorean court’s $18 billion environmental
damages verdict against  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  was thrown out by a
federal appeals panel in New York.  “The preliminary injunction issued by the district court
on March 7, 2011, is vacated in its entirety,” the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in New York wrote in an order issued yesterday.  In March, U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in  Manhattan 
issued a ruling that barred Ecuadorean residents in the Amazon
River Basin from enforcing an $18 billion judgment awarded by a
court in their country until Chevron’s case against the
villagers and their lawyers is decided.  The company alleged in a U.S. racketeering lawsuit that
lawyers for the Ecuadoreans conspired to fabricate evidence.
Attorneys for the Latin American plaintiffs said the lawsuit is
an unjustified attempt to derail the pollution lawsuit damages.  At a Sept. 16 argument before the appeals court in  New
York , a lawyer for the Ecuadoreans said his clients agreed not
to enforce the judgment in New York until  Ecuador ’s top court
rules on it.  Chevron, based in  San Ramon ,  California , said in a
statement that it was disappointed that a trial set for November
has been stayed.  “Chevron remains confident that once the full facts are
examined, the fraudulent judgment will be found unenforceable
and those who procured it will be required to answer for their
misconduct,” the company said in the statement.  In his March order, Kaplan said Chevron faced “imminent”
and “irreparable” harm to its business relationships and
reputation if the Ecuadorean judgment was enforced.  “There is a significant risk that assets would be seized
or attached, thus disrupting Chevron’s supply chain, causing it
to miss critical deliveries to business partners,” Kaplan said.  Pollution Claims  “This ruling is affirmation of what we have said all
along,” Karen Hinton, a spokeswoman for the plaintiffs, said in
an e-mailed statement. “Chevron abused the law, and Judge
Kaplan rushed to judgment without considering the overwhelming
evidence against the oil giant.”  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, was ordered
Feb. 14 to pay as much as $18 billion in compensatory and
punitive damages for Texaco Inc.’s alleged dumping of toxic
drilling wastes in the Ecuadorean jungle from 1964 to about
1992. The ruling came in an 18-year-old lawsuit decided by a
judge in  Lago Agrio , a provincial capital near the Colombian
border.  Chevron says it cleaned up its portion of the  oil fields 
and was released from pollution claims against Texaco in an
agreement with the government of Ecuador. Chevron acquired
Texaco in 2001.  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-00691,
U.S. District Court, District of New York (Manhattan). The case
in Ecuador is Maria Aquinda v. Chevron, 002-2003, Superior Court
of Nueva Loja, Lago Agrio, Ecuador.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net 
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 