-- 
U.S. Company Risk Increases as Greece Default Concern Rises

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-09-19T22:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/u-s-company-risk-benchmark-increases-as-greece-default-concern-rises.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk climbed by the most in a week on renewed concerns
that  Greece  may default.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 2.2 basis points to a mid-
price of 127.5 basis points as of 4:59 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  In  Europe , a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend to each
other rose for the first time in a week as international
monitors prepare to assess whether Greece’s Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  can meet the conditions of rescue loans. A
slowdown in European growth is a threat to the already faltering
U.S. economy, which Federal Reserve policy makers will discuss
at a two-day meeting starting tomorrow.  “There’s just continued concern over the Greek financial
crisis,” Bonnie Baha,  money manager  and head of the global
developed-credit group at DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los Angeles ,
which oversees $16 billion, said in a telephone interview.  The U.S. credit swaps index, which typically rises as
investor confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has
decreased from 135.9 basis points on Sept. 12, its highest level
since July 2009.  The Markit CDX North America High Yield Index, which falls
as investor confidence deteriorates, declined 0.3 percentage
points to 93.36 percent of face value, Markit data show.  Credit-default swaps on  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  jumped as
the world’s largest publicly traded maker of security systems
plans to break itself into three publicly traded companies.  Potential Suitors  The contracts increased 31.8 basis points to 100 basis
points, according to data provider CMA. The split may make the
three new companies more attractive to potential suitors on
their own than as pieces of a single entity, according to C.
Stephen Tusa, a New York-based analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Moody’s Investors Service placed the company’s bonds on
review for downgrade, affecting $4.1 billion of rated long-term
debt.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The investment-grade index rolls to a new series tomorrow.
The Series 17 of the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index removes contracts including those linked to R.R. Donnelley
& Sons Co., Toll Brothers Inc., TJX Cos., AT&T Inc. unit AT&T
Mobility, Progress Energy Inc. and Capital One Financial Corp.  Index Additions  Additions include Macy’s Inc., Gap Inc., Boston Scientific
Corp., Capital One Bank USA, Nabors Industries Ltd., and H.J.
Heinz Co., according to Markit’s website.  The new series will trade about six basis points higher
than Series 16 because the average level of the credits being
added is wider, because of the addition of six months of
maturity, and as buyers of protection roll into the new series,
according to a note by JPMorgan analysts led by strategist  Eric Beinstein  dated Sept. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  