-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall as Greece Concerns Offset Fed Stimulus Bets

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-20T21:14:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/u-s-stock-index-futures-extend-loss-after-s-p-cuts-italy-s-credit-rating.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a second day, as concern
that  Greece  wasn’t closer to receiving more financial aid offset
speculation the Federal Reserve will act to stimulate growth.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  slid
at least 1.1 percent, pacing losses among companies most-tied to
economic growth.  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  slumped 1.7 percent after
posting profit that trailed analysts’ estimates as costs for raw
ingredients soared.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s largest company,
advanced 0.4 percent, rising for a seventh day to a record.  The S&P 500 fell 0.2 percent to 1,202.09 at 4 p.m. in  New
York , dropping 1.1 percent in two days. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  rose 7.65 points, or 0.1 percent, to 11,408.66.  “There’s fear of a spiral downward to a really bad
situation in  Europe ," Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1 billion as
chief investment officer at Stewart Capital in Indiana,
 Pennsylvania , said in a telephone interview. ‘‘Obviously, there
will be concern the economy is weakening, that fiscal problems
are creating issues, that there will be less flexibility and it
will be hard to find a solution.’’  Stocks fell yesterday on concern Greece will fail to
qualify for more financial aid. Between April 29 and Aug. 8, the
 S&P 500  lost as much as 18 percent amid concern about global
growth. Since then, the index has rebounded 7.4 percent.  The S&P 500 reversed gains after a report from the state-
run Athens News Agency said officials from the so-called troika,
comprising the European Union,  European Central Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund , plan to return to Athens in early
October to complete their review of the Greek economy. The
report didn’t cite any sources.  ‘Good Progress’  The European Commission said in an e-mailed statement after
the market close that a conference call between the Greek
Minister of Finance, Evangelos Venizelos, and the international
officials today made ‘‘good progress.’’  The IMF cut its forecast for global growth and predicted
‘‘severe’’ repercussions if Europe fails to contain its crisis
or if U.S. policy makers reach an impasse over a fiscal plan.  Stocks rose earlier today amid speculation  Federal Reserve 
officials might propose new measures to galvanize the economy
when the Fed Open Market Committee completes a two-day meeting
tomorrow. Ben S. Bernanke, the central bank’s chairman, told
economists Sept. 9 in Minneapolis that policy makers have
measures at hand and are ‘‘prepared to employ these tools as
appropriate.’’  ‘Operation Twist’  One of those untested policy tools is likely to be a move
known as ‘‘Operation Twist,’’ in which the Fed would replace
short-term Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio with long-
term bonds, according to 71 percent of 42 surveyed economists.
The move, with its goal to bend the yield curve, will probably
fail to reduce the 9.1 percent unemployment rate, 61 percent of
the economists said.  ‘‘There’s lots of hope,’’ Jason Brady, a managing director
at Thornburg Investment Management Inc., who helps oversee about
$76 billion from  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , said in a telephone
interview. ‘‘In the absence of further negative news, people are
trying to be hopeful. We might get more stimulus. If the Fed
doesn’t do anything, people will be disappointed.’’  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
economic growth lost 1.6 percent. Alcoa slumped 2.9 percent to
$11.25. Hewlett-Packard decreased 1.9 percent to $22.47.
Caterpillar declined 1.1 percent to $83.66.  ‘Severe’  ConAgra dropped 1.7 percent to $22.99. The foodmaker said
its consumer foods unit, which includes Banquet frozen meals and
Slim Jim snacks, is grappling with ‘‘severe’’ cost inflation.
The company now projects food costs to increase as much as 10
percent this year, up from a previous estimate of a maximum of 8
percent.  Apple added 0.4 percent to $413.45, rising 9.5 percent in
seven days, amid speculation that it could be added to the Dow.
Richard Silverman, a spokesman for Dow Jones Indexes, declined
to comment.  Putting Apple in the Dow would mean the benchmark gauge
would get 22 percent of its value from the iPhone maker, too
much influence even for the world’s largest company, according
to Bespoke Investment Group LLC.  Apple would have the largest weighting in the 30-company
measure because Dow companies are ranked by stock price, not
market value. Replacing Kraft Foods Inc. with the Cupertino,
California-based company would drive International Business
Machines Corp. down to 9.2 percent from 11.6 percent of the Dow,
Bespoke said in a report today.  ‘Don’t Hold Your Breath’  ‘‘Don’t hold your breath,” Bespoke, based in Harrison, New
York, wrote in a note to clients, citing speculation today that
Apple may enter the Dow. “If the stock were added to the index
without a split in the shares, it would have a disproportionate
weight in the index, making it more like the Dow Jones
Industrial Apple.”    Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  jumped 5.5 percent to $69.90, its
highest price since October 1987. Gold may rise to $2,000 an
ounce by the end of this year and $2,300 an ounce by the end of
2012, Chief Executive Officer Richard O’Brien said. Gold futures
for December delivery settled at $1,809.10 an ounce today on the
Comex in New York.  PulteGroup Inc. rose 3 percent to $4.51. The largest U.S.
homebuilder was raised to “buy” from “neutral” at UBS AG,
which said the stock’s valuation is “attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  