-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline as Investors Weigh Greece

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-19T22:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/u-s-stock-futures-decline-as-investors-await-whether-greece-will-default.html
U.S. stocks retreated, following
the longest rally since July for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, amid concern Greece will fail to qualify for more
financial aid needed to avoid a debt default.  Stocks pared losses in the final hour of trading as Greece
said discussions with European officials about the country’s
bailout were productive.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  slid at least 2.8 percent, following a slump in
European lenders.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  sank 3.3 percent, pacing declines
in commodity producers.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  dropped 2.6 percent
as companies most-dependent on economic growth tumbled.  The S&P 500 lost 1 percent to 1,204.09 at 4 p.m. New York
time, paring a decline of 2.3 percent. It rallied five straight
days last week as government officials and central bankers took
steps to ease  Europe ’s debt crisis. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  fell 108.08 points, or 0.9 percent, to 11,401.01.  “The only story that matters is Europe,”  Jack Ablin ,
chief investment officer for Chicago-based Harris Private Bank,
which oversees $55 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“Central banks can provide liquidity, but they can’t solve
structural imbalances,” he said. “I have an uncomfortable
level of cash, but there are very few tranquil places to hide.”  Index futures declined after the close. Italy had its long-
and short-term sovereign credit ratings cut to A/A-1 from A+/A-
1+ by S&P. The December contract on the  S&P 500  slipped 0.6
percent to 1,190.8 at 6:31 p.m. in New York.  Extending Losses  The S&P 500 has lost as much as 18 percent since April 29
on concern Europe’s crisis would threaten the global economy.
The gauge rose 5.4 percent last week, the third-biggest rally
since 2009, after central bankers said they would provide dollar
loans for European lenders and French President Nicolas Sarkozy
and German Chancellor Angela Merkel said they’re convinced
Greece will remain in the euro area.  Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government will hold
another call with its main creditors tomorrow after a
“productive” round of talks aimed at staving off default.  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos held “substantive”
discussions with European Union and International Monetary Fund
officials about securing a sixth installment of rescue funds,
the Athens-based finance ministry said in an e-mailed statement
after a teleconference. A second call will be held tomorrow.  Greek Doubts  As Papandreou fights investor doubts and domestic
opposition, European leaders are squabbling over the terms of
the July agreement and the prospect that they will be forced to
channel more money to keep  Greece  in the currency union. U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in an interview
today that Europe will eventually adopt some of the same
measures the U.S. took after the 2008 financial crisis.  “The markets are saying the odds are very high of a Greek
default,”  Frederic Dickson , who helps oversee $28 billion as
chief market strategist at D.A. Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego ,
Oregon, said in a telephone interview. “In addition, people are
expecting a lot from the Fed this week,” which leaves room for
disappointment, he said.  Federal Reserve officials may propose new measures to
galvanize the economy when the Federal Open Market Committee
completes a two-day meeting on Sept. 21. Ben S. Bernanke, the
central bank’s chairman, told economists Sept. 8 in Minneapolis
that policy makers have measures at hand and are “prepared to
employ these tools as appropriate.”  Homebuilder Confidence  Stocks maintained losses after data showed confidence among
U.S. homebuilders sank to a three-month low in September as
prospective buyer traffic, sales and purchase expectations fell.  Financial shares had the biggest decline in the S&P 500
within 10 industries, falling 2.7 percent as a group. Bank of
America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, slumped 3.3 percent
to $6.99. JPMorgan retreated 2.8 percent to $32.49.  Life insurers retreated after  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  lowered its
earnings estimates for the industry, citing a drop in equity
prices during the third quarter.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  slid 4.6 percent
to $31.51.  Commodity producers decreased amid concern of slower demand
for energy and raw materials. Alcoa sank 3.3 percent to $11.58.
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  declined 1.1 percent to $73.70.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
the economy lost 1.6 percent. The Dow Jones Transportation
Average, a proxy for economic growth, dropped 1.7 percent.
Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest computer maker, slumped 2.6
percent to $22.91.  Tyco Breakup  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  rose 2.4 percent to $44.75 as it
plans to break itself into three publicly traded companies. The
separation will create standalone companies from ADT’s North
American residential security, flow-control and the world’s
biggest commercial security and fire-systems division.  Goodrich Corp. (GR) , the aerospace-equipment maker said to be in
talks on a takeover by United Technologies Corp., climbed 16
percent to $107.60, the highest level since 1980. A deal with
United Technologies may be announced as soon as this week, said
one of three people familiar with the matter, who weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  John Moran, a spokesman for United Technologies, declined
to comment. Goodrich’s Andrew Martin didn’t immediately respond
to a voice mail and e-mail request for comment about the
takeover talks.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Tobias Levkovich cut his year-end forecast
for the S&P 500 to 1,325 from 1,400, citing disappointing global
economic data and constraints on investor confidence. The chief
U.S. equity strategist at the New York-based firm forecast the
S&P 500 would rise 3.8 percent in 2012 to 1,375.  “While the S&P 500’s potential gains still look quite
attractive over the next six and 12 months, the investment
community may not be as willing to bump up share prices that
vigorously,” he wrote in a note dated Sept. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  