-- 
UBS Board to Meet in Singapore as Kengeter Pledges to Review Risk Controls

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-09-20T12:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/ubs-investment-banking-chief-says-bank-to-strengthen-procedures.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s directors will meet in
Singapore, home to the Swiss bank’s biggest shareholder, this
week following the disclosure of a $2.3 billion loss from
unauthorized trading, according to two people with knowledge of
the situation.  The board of Switzerland’s largest bank will review the
loss and possible management changes, said one of the people,
who declined to be named because the gathering is private. The
regular meeting was scheduled before the loss emerged, and
coincides with the Singapore Formula One Grand Prix, where the
firm will be entertaining clients.  The Government of Singapore Investment Corp., the sovereign
wealth fund that is the company’s largest investor, said its
senior management met with UBS Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  in Singapore today to discuss the “alleged fraudulent
trading” that led to the loss. GIC said yesterday it offset
losses on its UBS stake, which it bought before the 2008
financial crisis, with other investments.  “GIC expressed disappointment and concern about the lapses
and urged UBS to take firm action to restore confidence in the
bank,” the fund said in an e-mailed statement.  Carsten Kengeter, UBS’s head of  investment banking , told
employees the Zurich-based lender is “doing everything” to
address shortcomings in its risk controls.  Executive Pressure  “We all share a sense of anger and frustration,” he wrote
in a memo to employees as the bank said the size of the loss
rose by $300 million. “We are doing everything in our power to
address the frameworks, practices and procedures that should
have worked better and strengthen their enforcement.”  Kengeter, who joined UBS in 2008 to rebuild its fixed
income unit after it racked up record losses during the credit
crisis, is among top executives that may face pressure to step
down after the loss exposed flaws in the bank’s risk controls.  Gruebel, 67, who was recruited out of retirement in 2009 to
help turn around UBS after record losses and a U.S. tax scandal,
has said he will stay. Earlier in his career, he earned the
moniker “Saint Ossie” in  Switzerland  for helping to restore
Credit Suisse Group AG’s profit and reputation, and for trading
acumen that included spotting the subprime debacle early.  “It is very difficult to build and maintain a system which
protects us effectively against every possible likelihood of
attack, but we will not rest until we have controls that are as
watertight as possible,” Kengeter, 44, said in the memo, which
was obtained by Bloomberg News. “Continued vigilance will be
key to ensuring we avoid future failures.”  Shares Fall  A spokesman for UBS in London confirmed the contents of the
memo. The stock fell 1 percent to 9.97 francs as of 2:17 p.m. in
Swiss trading. The shares dropped 11 percent to 9.75 francs on
the day the bank announced the loss, the biggest decline since
March 2009, before rebounding by 5.2 percent on Sept. 16.  The loss, first estimated on Sept. 15 at $2 billion, came
from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX and EuroStoxx index
futures over the past three months, the Zurich-based bank said
in a statement on Sept. 18.  “The positions taken were within the normal business flow
of a large global equity trading house as part of a properly
hedged portfolio,” UBS said in the statement. The magnitude of
the risk was masked by “fictitious positions,” it said.  UBS made the disclosures two days after  London  police
charged a 31-year-old trader with fraud and false accounting.  GIC Recovery  GIC, which manages more than $100 billion of Singapore’s
reserves, said it has fully recovered the total value of its
portfolio since the financial crisis. UBS shares have lost about
half their value since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for
bankruptcy in September 2008.  “In retrospect, as we had said in late 2008, the timing
for the investment could have been better,” GIC said in a
statement late yesterday in response to a letter to Today
newspaper by a reader. “On the other hand, GIC also made good
investment decisions during the same period.”  GIC will keep its investment in the Swiss bank “for many
years to come” and will only consider selling if there are
attractive offers, Tony Tan, then deputy chairman of the
 Singapore  sovereign wealth fund, said in a Jan. 29 interview.
Tan has left GIC and was sworn in as Singapore’s seventh
president on Sept. 1.  “GIC’s view of UBS’ fundamental strength as a well-
capitalized bank with a strong private wealth management
franchise remains unchanged,” the fund said in today’s statement.  The trading incident at UBS “is a reminder that things can
still happen though they’re in it for the long term,” said Song Seng Wun, a Singapore-based economist at CIMB Research Pte.
“Investing in a key financial institution like UBS will pay off,
but it will be bumpy for a few years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  