-- 
Mumias of Kenya Says Sugar Shortage to Persist for Another Year

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-19T15:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/mumias-of-kenya-says-sugar-shortage-to-persist-for-another-year.html
A sugar shortage in  Kenya , where
imports of the sweetener from other African nations account for
about a third of consumption, may persist for another year until
new cane crops enter the market, Mumias Sugar Co. said.  “Right now there is a crisis,” said Evans Kidero, chief
executive officer of Mumias, the country’s largest sugar miller.
“It will end in about 12 months’ time. One crop cycle is 12
months.”  Kenya is suffering a sugar shortfall as local processors
struggle with production costs that exceed those in other
African countries and importers face increasing competition for
supplies amid tightening global inventories.  Kenya mainly relies on nations in the  Common Market for
Eastern and Southern Africa  to meet 30 percent of its sugar
needs, Kidero said today at a conference in Nairobi. The country
has secured only about half its import requirement so far this
year, he said, citing competing demand for Comesa’s exports.  Global sugar stockpiles are dwindling as adverse weather in
cane-growing areas reduces harvests. Growers in  Brazil ’s Center
South, the world’s largest producing region, will reap the
smallest crop in four years after plants were hurt by drought
and frost, Pedro Mizutani, executive vice president of the
milling unit at cane processor Raizen, said Sept. 5.  “There are too many buyers chasing too little sugar,”
Kidero said. Kenyan retail sugar prices have more than doubled
to 200 shillings a kilogram ($2.09) in three months, he said.  Rising Costs  Rising energy expenses and poor infrastructure have driven
sugar production costs in Kenya to as much as $750 a metric ton,
compared with about $500 a ton in other African nations, Solomon
Odera, CEO of the Kenya Sugar Board, said in March.  In a bid to protect local producers, Kenya has sought a
two-year extension on sugar import duties from Comesa. The
current tax agreement ends at the end of February, Romano Kiome,
permanent secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture, said today.  Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki last week approved a law that
allows the government to regulate prices of basic commodities.
The legislation will probably not affect sugar costs, Kidero
said. Cane farmers’ pay is based on market prices and the
government wouldn’t want to disadvantage agricultural producers
by capping their income, he said.  Mumias accounts for 60 percent of Kenya’s domestically
produced sugar supplies, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  