-- 
Hungarian Lawmakers Approve Law on Foreign-Currency Mortgages

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-09-19T18:44:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/hungarian-lawmakers-approve-law-on-foreign-currency-mortgages.html
Hungarian lawmakers passed a bill
that allows the early repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at
below-market rates.  Lawmakers of the ruling Fidesz party and the opposition
Jobbik Party supported the proposal, resulting in a tally of 277
votes in favor, with 9 against and 30 abstentions, according to
the parliament’s  website .  Under the new law, borrowers will be allowed to repay
mortgages early at a fixed exchange rate of 180 forint per Swiss
franc and 250 forint per euro, provided they took out the loans
at lower exchange rates. Losses will be assumed by banks.  The European Union said the proposal may violate its rules
and Standard and Poor’s, which rates  Hungary  one step above
junk, said it may hurt lending, growth and public finances.  Hungary, where two-thirds of  mortgage loans  are denominated
in Swiss francs, is struggling to reduce its exposure to
currency swings and help borrowers after  Switzerland ’s currency
rose to a record, triggering defaults and pushing up monthly
payments in Hungary. The plan doesn’t make it compulsory for
banks to offer forint loans for borrowers who want to take part
in the program. Borrowers have until Dec. 31 to apply for
repayment at their banks.  The government expects 10 percent of almost 1 million
households that hold foreign-currency mortgages to opt for early
repayment, news portal  Index  said today, citing a letter sent by
Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  to his Austrian counterpart
Reinhold Mitterlehner.  Largest Lender  The forint fell 2 percent against the euro to 291.21, the
weakest since July 19, 2010. Credit default swaps, bought by
investors as an insurance against a default, rose to their
highest level since April 2009. OTP Bank Nyrt., the nation’s
largest lender, declined 3.3 percent to 3,615 forint, pushing
the total loss in the stock to 13.7 percent since Sept. 9, when
the plan was announced.  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks,
including Raiffeisen, Erste,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Bayerische
Landesbank AG.  Hungary has “nothing to lose” because foreign lenders
have already been withdrawing money from the country and some
international banks will still find it profitable to remain,
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said on Sept. 12.  The plan poses a “significant threat” to the financial
industry and the wider economy, the Banking Association said in
a statement last week. The lenders are ready to turn to
Hungary’s Constitutional Court and the European Union to fight
the measure, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  