-- 
Turkey Lira Falls to 2 1/2-Year Low; Heads for Weakest on Record

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-09-19T14:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/turkey-lira-falls-to-2-1-2-year-low-heads-for-weakest-on-record.html
The Turkish lira depreciated to the
weakest in 2 1/2 years against the dollar and headed for a
record low on increased concern that  Greece  may default, curbing
demand for riskier, emerging-market assets.  The lira fell 1.6 percent to 1.8058 per dollar at 4:24 p.m.
in Istanbul, its weakest intraday level since March 10, 2009. A
close at this would be the lowest since at least 1981, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
speak today with Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos to
judge whether his government is eligible for its next aid
payment. Federal Reserve policy makers will gather in  Washington 
tomorrow for a two-day meeting to discuss if more measures are
needed to help revive the economic recovery.  “The general  risk reduction  in emerging markets is pushing
the lira higher,” Onur Aydogan, head of fixed-income trading at
ING Bank AS in Istanbul, said by phone.  The Turkish central bank’s monetary policy committee will
meet tomorrow, when it’s expected to keep its benchmark rate at
a record low of 5.75 percent, according to 12 of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Two forecast a rate cut.  “We expect unchanged rates, but another rate cut cannot be
totally dismissed at all,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-market
strategist at Citigroup Inc in  London , wrote in a note to
clients.  The lira is the worst performer among emerging-market
currencies, depreciating 15 percent against the dollar since
December when the bank began a series of rate cuts as it
forecast a downturn in global economic activity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  