-- 
Turkish Central Bank May Keep Benchmark Rate at Record Low

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-09-19T10:28:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/turkish-central-bank-may-keep-benchmark-rate-at-record-low.html
Turkey ’s central bank may keep the
benchmark  interest rate  at a historic low to support the lira.  Governor Erdem Basci will probably hold the one-week repo
rate at 5.75 percent, according to the median estimate of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Two forecast a cut. The bank
will announce its decision at 2 p.m. in Ankara tomorrow.  The bank reduced the rate by half a percentage point on
Aug. 4, saying action was needed to cushion the economy from the
impact of a likely slowdown caused by European debt problems.
The lira has fallen 6 percent against the dollar since then,
pushing up the inflation rate. The currency is undervalued,
Basci said Aug. 15.  “The bank will probably keep its dovish rhetoric but make
no change at all,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an economist for JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Istanbul, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
been vocal on the lira recently and a rates cut would weaken the
currency further.”  Inflation accelerated to 6.7 percent in August from 6.3
percent a month earlier. The bank, which is aiming for 5.5
percent at the end of the year, said the increased rate was
caused by the weaker lira driving up the price of imported
goods. Basci said Sept. 14 he won’t tolerate any deterioration
in the outlook for inflation.  The economy expanded 1.3 percent in the second quarter from
the previous three months, according to seasonally adjusted
figures announced Sept. 12. Basci had forecast a quarter of flat
growth, saying the economic slowdown would lead to a “rapid”
improvement in the current-account deficit.  The 12-month current-account gap widened to a record $74.6
billion in July, equivalent to about 10 percent of gross
domestic product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 