-- 
US Airways Puts Highest Since 2007 Show Most Pessimism: Options

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-09-20T21:20:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/us-airways-puts-highest-since-2007-show-most-pessimism-options.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  options
traders are skeptical the nation’s fifth-largest carrier will
avoid a global economic slowdown, driving up insurance against
declines to the highest levels since 2007.  Three-month puts betting on 10 percent losses cost 1.1
times more than calls wagering on a rally, compared with the
five-year median of 1.057, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price relationship known as skew was at similar
levels in August 2010, before Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways
retreated 19 percent in less than six weeks while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.4 percent.  Equity derivatives showed increased bearishness after US
Airways President Scott Kirby told analysts and investors last
week that industry demand is “very robust.” The shares have
dropped 40 percent this year for the second-worst performance in
the 10-company Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index after American
Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)   “US Air could be printing money hand over fist and it
won’t matter in that scenario if people start liquidating in a
panic,” Alec Levine, an equity derivatives strategist at
Newedge Group SA in New York, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “They’re saying there’s robust demand, but if equity
markets collapse, it’s somewhat irrelevant. In very volatile
markets, metrics don’t matter.”  VIX Jumps  The VIX, as the  Chicago  Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, rose 0.4 percent to 32.86 at 4:15 p.m. New York
time today after rising 5.7 percent yesterday amid concern
 Greece  will fail to qualify for more financial aid needed to
avoid default. It fell 20 percent last week. The VStoxx Index,
which measures the cost to protect against declines in the Euro
Stoxx 50 Index, declined 6.2 percent to 42.79 today.  US Airways  spokesman Todd Lehmacher declined to comment
yesterday on the put-option pricing.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization at US Airways amounted to 6.9 percent of revenue in
the second quarter, below the 9.6 percent average for 14
carriers tracked by Bloomberg Industries and less than every
company except AMR and Hawaiian Holdings Inc. US Airways, the
smallest of the nation’s major full-fare carriers, trades for
4.7 times earnings from the past year, half the valuation for
the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index.  “There’s a perception that US Airways is one of the
financially weaker companies,”  Jim Corridore , an equity analyst
at S&P in New York, said in a phone interview yesterday. “They
don’t have a merger partner lined up like United did or Delta
did. They clearly don’t have as strong an international route
network as companies like American or Delta or United.”  Airline Acquisitions  United Airlines  bought Continental Airlines in October to
form  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  of Chicago, the world’s
largest airline.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , based in Atlanta,
purchased Northwest Airlines LLC in 2008.  Delta, the second-biggest U.S. carrier, said last week that
it will shrink capacity next year by as much as 3 percent.
United Continental and Dallas-based  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , the
biggest low-fare airline, have said capacity will be unchanged
in 2012 from this year. US Airways hasn’t announced its seat
availability for next year.  “The demand environment is very robust,” Kirby said Sept.
13 at a Deutsche Bank AG event. “We just don’t see any evidence
yet of a slowdown, and we’ve seen this kind of strong demand
environment really from mid-July through yesterday.”  Bearish Bets  Skew for US Airways’s rivals has declined after peaking
since the start of 2010. Puts priced 10 percent above Delta’s
stock cost 1.11 times calls betting on 10 percent gains,
compared with the high of 1.17, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg using three-month contracts. For United Continental,
the figure fell to 1.13 from 1.14. AMR’s slipped to 1.10 from
1.16, and it slumped to 1.16 from 1.27 at Southwest Airlines.  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index has tumbled 29 percent in
2011, including an 11 percent drop since July 15, amid
speculation the European debt crisis will cause slower global
economic growth. The  S&P 500  has lost 4.4 percent from Dec. 31.
US Airways shares rose 2.9 percent today to $5.97. They slipped
to $4.85 on Sept. 12, the lowest since January 2010.  US Airways posted $502 million of net income in 2010,
following two years of losses totaling $2.42 billion. Should the
industry slow, the company had $2.2 billion in cash at the end
of the second quarter. Its ratio of cash to assets was 26.3
percent, second-highest behind Calgary-based WestJet Airlines
Ltd. and more than double the 12.6 percent industry average.  Manufacturing Gauge  The Institute for Supply Management index of U.S.
manufacturing, which fell to the weakest level since 2009 in
August, shows airlines will face less demand, Wolfe Trahan &
Co.’s  Hunter Keay  said in a Sept. 16 report. The analyst said US
Airways will do worse than United Continental and Delta during
the next few years in terms of cash generation.  “Legitimate risk to 2012 demand trends remains due to
macro uncertainty,” William Greene, a Morgan Stanley airline
analyst, said in a note to investors. “Our key economic
indicators reinforce our macro model’s forecast and point to
slowing revenue growth -- with the  unemployment rate  and
 consumer confidence , both highly correlated with airline
revenues, having been particularly weak of late.”  The unemployment rate remained at 9.1 percent in August,
the U.S. Labor Department said earlier this month, as employers
became less confident in the strength of the economic recovery.
Consumer confidence remains near the lowest levels of the year
as the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index held at minus 49.3 in
the period to Sept. 11.  October $5 Puts  The number of existing US Airways October $5 puts has
surged fourfold during the past week, the biggest increase among
bearish contracts on the company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The strike price on the options is 14 percent below
yesterday’s closing level for the stock.  “There continues to be concern about the economy,”
 Timothy Ghriskey , who oversees $2 billion as chief investment
officer of  Bedford Hills , New York-based Solaris Group LLC, said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “Airlines would be part of
that because they are leveraged to the economy. The concern is,
of course, that demand would dry up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  