-- 
Postal Service Sees ‘Breathing Space’ in Obama Plan, Deputy Says

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-09-20T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/usps-could-cut-saturday-delivery-under-proposal.html
The U.S.  Postal Service  may gain
“breathing space” to reduce costs over the next two years as
part of President Barack Obama’s deficit-reduction plan, Deputy
Postmaster General Ronald Stroman said.  The service should be allowed to stop delivering mail on
Saturdays and be refunded $6.9 billion it paid into a federal
retirement program, the administration said yesterday. The
proposal would also allow the agency to enact a one-time rate
increase of 5.6 percent.  The plan gives the Postal Service time to carry out planned
cost cuts, Stroman said. The Washington-based service is seeking
to close as many as 252 mail-sorting plants and 3,700 post
offices and eliminate 220,000 jobs.  “We desperately need cash,” Stroman said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “What the administration proposal does is
give us a short-term infusion of cash.”  The service says it won’t be able to make a $5.5 billion
payment for future retirees’ health care that’s required by
Congress by Sept. 30 as it reaches its $15 billion debt ceiling.  Obama’s plan aims to give the Postal Service $20 billion
over “several years” and reduce the federal deficit by $19
billion over 10 years.  The postal changes are part of the $3 trillion deficit-
reduction plan Obama sent to the congressional committee, whose
job is to cut at least $1.5 trillion from the federal deficit.
The Postal Service has said cutting Saturday mail delivery would
save $3.1 billion a year.  Paying Later  Obama proposed deferring $13.8 billion in retiree health
benefit payments for the next two years so that they can be used
for postal operating expenses, said an administration official
who declined to be identified because full details of the plan
haven’t been released.  The administration estimates that ending Saturday delivery
will save least $2.5 billion a year once fully implemented, or
$19.4 billion over 10 years, the official said. A 5.6 percent
average rate increase may bring in $1 billion a year in
additional revenue and $9.5 billion over 10 years, the official
said.  The Postal Service last year unsuccessfully asked its
regulator for permission to raise rates by an average of 5.6
percent. The agency has sought Congress’s permission for all of
the proposed changes.  “There’s going to be a need for longer-term solutions,
without question,” Stroman said. “Our big cost item that’s not
dealt with is the retiree health payment.”  The service is trying to talk with all 12 members of the
congressional committee that will consider Obama’s
recommendations, the deputy postmaster general said.  Additional Steps  While the proposal provides some “running room,” the
agency would need additional steps for longer-term relief, said
Art Sackler, coordinator of the Coalition for a 21st Century
Postal Service.  The group, whose members include  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , says the measure would help, and supports
the changes except for raising rates faster than inflation,
Sackler said.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and
sponsor of a bill with proposals to save at least $10.7 billion
annually in postal spending, said in an e-mailed statement that
Obama’s postal plan is a “bailout” and fails to seek
“fundamental reform.”  Issa, Ross  The bill sponsored by Issa and Representative  Dennis Ross ,
a Florida Republican, will be considered by the House
subcommittee that oversees the Postal Service tomorrow. The
measure proposes leaving mail at the curb or the end of the
driveway instead of delivering it to the door, saving at least
$3.5 billion annually.  That change is “worth considering,” Stroman said. “A lot
of the things in the bill are worth considering. We have not
taken a position on it.”  The Postal Service’s mail volume has dropped 22 percent
since 2006, including the 2 percent decline that Postmaster
General Patrick Donahoe forecasts for the fiscal year ending
Sept. 30. The fastest decline is in first-class mail, which
includes letters and some business correspondence and is the
most profitable type of mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  