-- 
Utility Demand for CO2 to Jump 82% to Record in Second Half, Tschach Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-09-19T12:58:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/utility-demand-for-co2-to-jump-82-to-record-in-second-half-tschach-says.html
Utility demand for carbon permits
and credits will surge 82 percent to a record in the six months
through the end of the year as lawmakers stop giving most
allowances away for free, said Tschach Solutions GmbH.  Demand will amount to 200 million metric tons in the second
half of this year, compared with about 110 million tons in the
same period of last year, according to a report e-mailed today.
There was about 130 million tons of demand in the first half of
this year, said Tschach, the Karlsruhe, Germany-based provider
of data on carbon markets.  Utilities can buy European Union carbon permits for
compliance with greenhouse gas limits or use cheaper United
Nations Certified Emission Reduction credits. They receive most
of their required EU allowances free of charge in the five years
through 2012 and usually sell power two-to-three years ahead of
generation. They won’t generally get free permits after 2012 and
it’s not likely they will wait for the first auctions of 2013
carbon permits, which are slated for the end of this year, Ingo Tschach, managing director, said today by phone.  Utilities will probably use cheaper CERs from the Clean
Development Mechanism for a large portion of their needs, he
said. To lock in profit on forward sales of electricity, power
generators usually buy fuel and carbon futures.  RWE AG (RWE)  needs about 55 million tons in the second half,
Tschach estimated.  Enel SpA (ENEL)  needs about 50 million tons.  RWE is listed as one of the buyers in UN-credit projects
that have received 59.3 million tons of credits under the UN-
overseen CDM since 2005, according to UN data. Enel is listed as
a buyer in projects that have received 175 million tons, the
data show.  UN Credit Ban  EU lawmakers earlier this year banned some credits
including the most plentiful hydrofluorocarbon-23 offsets,
starting May 2013. That will encourage their use by utilities
through that month, Tschach said today. “One should keep in
mind that Enel/Endesa could rely on substantial CER volumes from
HFC-CDM projects,” he said.  “German market hedging was quite aggressive, especially in
2008 and 2009 due to attractive power production spreads,”
according to the report. “Starting 2010, hedging was slowed
down due to deteriorating power spreads.”  Hedging levels remain near those reported before 2010, or
at least close to the bottom of the range for that period,
Tschach said. “The lagging hedges now result in significant
hedging needs until year end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  