-- 
Vick’s Return to Atlanta Ends With Concussion as Eagles Lose to Falcons

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-09-19T06:44:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/vick-s-return-to-atlanta-ends-with-concussion-as-eagles-lose-to-falcons.html
Michael Vick ’s first appearance in
Atlanta as a starting quarterback with the  Philadelphia Eagles 
ended the same way his last visit began: with him watching
instead of playing.  The difference this time was on the scoreboard.  After a neck injury knocked Vick out of last night’s game
against the  Atlanta Falcons  in the third quarter, the Eagles had
to rely on third-string quarterback Mike Kafka and surrendered
14 points over the final 11 minutes to lose 35-31 to Vick’s
former team.  “We wanted to get pressure on him,” Falcons coach  Mike Smith  said of Vick, who played for Atlanta from 2001-2006. “We
wanted to try to sack him. We executed the game plan.”  Two years ago in Philadelphia’s 34-7 win in Atlanta, Vick
spent most of the game on the sideline in Kafka’s position as a
third-string backup following his release from prison on a dog
fighting conviction. At the time, he said he was grateful just
to be back in the  National Football League .  Vick took over as the Eagles’ starter last season, was
voted the NFL’s Comeback Player of the Year and entered this
season targeting a Super Bowl title. Vick’s return to Georgia’s
capital city came three weeks after he signed a new six-year,
$100 million contract. Through almost three quarters of play
last night, the Eagles appeared poised for a win and 2-0 start,
having seized the lead and momentum.  Face First  Falcons safety William Moore then slammed into Vick in the
Eagles’ backfield, sending him face first into the chest of 6-
foot-6, 321-pound lineman Todd Herremans. Vick’s body bent
backward as he fell to the ground. He wasn’t wearing a
mouthpiece at the time, bit his tongue and was spitting blood
while being led to the locker room a short time later.  “Hopefully he’s okay,” Falcons quarterback  Matt Ryan  said
in a press conference after the game. “You never like to see
anybody go down. So hopefully he bounces back.”  Vick wasn’t available to talk to the media after the game.  Eagles coach  Andy Reid  said the 31-year-old quarterback had
a concussion and would be treated by team doctors.  “We knew that we were putting hits on him,” Falcons
linebacker Curtis Lofton told reporters. “You never want to
hurt anybody, but at the same time we’re a physical team.”  Vick had completed 19-of-28 passes for 242 yards and two
touchdowns before the injury. He also had one interception and
had fumbled three times, losing two. Known for his explosive
running ability, Vick was limited to 25 rushing yards on six
carries by Atlanta’s defense.  Georgia  Jeers  With Vick back in town, Atlanta’s Georgia Dome was filled
with fans wearing a mixture of Falcons’ and Eagles’ jerseys with
his No. 7 on the back. The visiting team drew mostly jeers when
Vick led them on to the field to start the game. His first
return two years ago drew raucous cheers from Falcons fans.  Ryan, who was still competing at  Boston College  when Vick
last played with the Falcons, said he and his teammates weren’t
distracted by the pre-game hype about Vick’s reappearance.  “I couldn’t allow myself to get caught up in those
things,” said Ryan, who missed the teams’ 2009 meeting. “Our
entire team did a great job of that this week.”  For the Falcons, who were beaten 30-12 by the  Chicago Bears 
in their season opener, last night’s game was more about getting
a win and less about defeating Vick.  “We obviously didn’t play our best game, but we played
well enough to get it done,” said Smith, whose team went 13-3
last season. “We’re going to move on as quickly as possible
because winning in this league is not easy.”  The Falcons will face the Buccaneers next week in Tampa in
a matchup of 1-1 teams in the NFC South division.  The Eagles, who committed $225 million in salaries and
acquired six Pro Bowl players over a two-week span during the
offseason, fell to 1-1 and head into next week’s home game
against the  New York Giants  with Vick’s status in question.  “We could have won this game,” Eagles defensive end  Jason Babin  told reporters. “It’s not what Atlanta did. It’s what we
didn’t do. We handed them the game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  