-- 
Vick to Be Re-Evaluated for Giants Game

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-19T17:10:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/vick-to-be-re-evaluated-for-giants-game.html
Philadelphia Eagles quarterback
 Michael Vick  will be re-evaluated today after a doctor’s exam
and an MRI to judge the effects of a concussion.  Team trainer Rick Burkholder said there was no timetable
for deciding when Vick might return to action after suffering
the concussion in last night’s 35-31 loss to the  Atlanta
Falcons . The Eagles are scheduled to play the  New York Giants  on
Sept. 25.  Vick was injured in the third quarter and kept out of the
game after he failed a baseline concussion test, Burkholder said
today in a press conference. Vick will see an independent
neurologist, and have impact testing and an MRI, in accordance
with team and league protocols, Burkholder said.  “I spoke with him on the airplane and he was absolutely
fine last night,” Burkholder said. “There’s a lot that needs
to go on over the next three, four, five, seven days, but we
have an outline and we’ve done this before.”  Vick was injured in his return to Atlanta as a starting
quarterback, forcing the Eagles to rely on third-stringer
quarterback Mike Kafka. Philadelphia surrendered 14 points over
the final 11 minutes to lose to the team where Vick played
before he was imprisoned for helping run a dogfighting ring.  “We wanted to get pressure on him,” Falcons coach  Mike Smith  said of Vick, who played for Atlanta from 2001 to 2006.
“We wanted to try to sack him. We executed the game plan.”  Two years ago in Philadelphia’s 34-7 win in Atlanta, Vick
spent most of the game on the sideline as a third-string backup.
At the time, he said he was grateful just to be back in the
 National Football League .  Comeback Player  Vick took over as the Eagles’ starter last season, was
voted the NFL’s Comeback Player of the Year and entered this
season targeting a Super Bowl title. Vick’s return to  Georgia ’s
capital city came three weeks after he signed a six-year, $100
million contract.  Through almost three quarters of play last night, the
Eagles appeared poised for a win and 2-0 start, having seized
the lead and momentum.  Falcons safety William Moore then slammed into Vick in the
Eagles’ backfield, sending him face first into the chest of 6-
foot-6, 321-pound lineman Todd Herremans. Vick’s body bent
backward as he fell to the ground. He wasn’t wearing a
mouthpiece at the time, bit his tongue and was spitting blood
while being led to the locker room a short time later.  Burkholder said that the team ran comparison tests after
taking Vick off the field, allowing team doctors to compare
Vick’s functions before the hit to his cognitive abilities
afterward.  ‘Standard Protocol’  “We have a whole baseline of tests on all these guys and
he was just a little bit off, enough that we acted on the side
of caution and held him back, as our standard protocol said,”
Burkholder said.  Burkholder added that Vick was “very far along last
night,” and that it was too early to rule the quarterback out
of the game against the Giants.  “Hopefully he’s OK,” Falcons quarterback  Matt Ryan  said
in a press conference. “You never like to see anybody go down.
So hopefully he bounces back.”  Vick wasn’t available to talk to the media after the game.  “We knew that we were putting hits on him,” Falcons
linebacker Curtis Lofton told reporters. “You never want to
hurt anybody, but at the same time we’re a physical team.”  Vick had completed 19-of-28 passes for 242 yards and two
touchdowns before the injury. He also had one interception and
had fumbled three times, losing two. Vick was limited to 25
rushing yards on six carries by Atlanta’s defense.  Mixed Reception  With Vick back in town, Atlanta’s Georgia Dome was filled
with fans wearing a mixture of Falcons’ and Eagles’ jerseys with
his No. 7 on the back. The visiting team drew mostly jeers when
Vick led them on to the field to start the game. His first
return two years ago drew raucous cheers from Falcons fans.  The Falcons will face the Buccaneers next week in Tampa in
a matchup of 1-1 teams in the NFC South division.  The Eagles, who committed $225 million in salaries and
acquired six Pro Bowl players over a two-week span during the
offseason, fell to 1-1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  