-- 
Google Kicks Off Mobile Payments, Teams With Visa, Discover

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-09-19T23:24:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/visa-google-strike-license-deal-allowing-mobile-phone-payments.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  rolled out its mobile-
payments application on Sprint Nextel Corp.’s network, and said
it’s teaming up with  Visa Inc. (V) ,  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  and
 American Express Co. (AXP)  to make the service more widely available.  Google, whose earlier partners included Citigroup Inc. and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA) , uses so-called near-field communication
technology to let consumers pay by tapping a smartphone on a
reader at checkout. The Google Wallet service, available now on
a handset from Sprint, enables users to charge items to Citi
MasterCard credit cards, Google said in a  blog post  today.  “Our goal is to make it possible for you to add all of
your payment cards to Google Wallet, so you can say goodbye to
even the biggest traditional wallets,” the company said in the
blog post. Visa, Discover and American Express have opened their
NFC specifications to Google, which may allow their cards to be
added to future versions of the application, Google said.  With the new service, Google can capture more information
about consumers’ shopping behavior when they’re not on the
Internet. The agreement gives Visa, the biggest payment network,
a presence in three digital wallets: Google’s; its own, unveiled
in May; and Isis, a joint venture of mobile-phone companies.  “Customers will make decisions as to which wallet they’re
going to use, and we want to make sure customers have a
choice,” said John Partridge, president of San Francisco-based
Visa, in a phone interview today. “We believe there will be a
number of different alternatives that will become available and
there won’t be one that becomes a standard.”  About 300,000 terminals worldwide are enabled with the
technology, Partridge said.  Google’s challenge now is spurring consumers to adopt the
service, said  Richard Doherty , an analyst with Envisioneering
Group in Seaford, New York.  “It’s a lot tougher to implement than to model and to
prototype,” he said. “They really have to prove themselves
with this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 