-- 
Two SEC Veterans Leaving Agency to Counsel Law Clients on Rules

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-19T14:23:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/two-sec-veterans-leaving-agency-to-counsel-law-clients-on-rules.html
Two veteran U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission officials who played key roles overseeing
financial companies are stepping down to join law firms helping
clients cope with rules spawned by the 2008 credit crisis.  James Brigagliano, who served as deputy director of the
SEC’s trading and markets division, is leaving after 25 years to
join the Washington office of Chicago-based firm Sidley Austin
LLP, the  law firm  said today in a statement.  John H. Walsh, associate director and chief counsel in the
office of compliance inspections and examinations, is quitting
after 23 years, to join Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan LLP in
Washington on Oct. 1, that firm said last week.  The two men are leaving with the agency in the midst of
implementing rules imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act, the sweeping
regulatory overhaul enacted last year, and may play key roles in
helping in responding to the new oversight.  “As the line between compliance and enforcement
increasingly blurs, I look forward to using my extensive
knowledge to help counsel clients on some of their most critical
matters and help them navigate today’s new regulatory and
compliance hurdles,” Walsh said in a statement. He helped
create the SEC compliance and inspections unit, which oversees
broker-dealers, and served as acting director in 2009.  Brigagliano, who was promoted to deputy director of trading
and markets in 2009, also had a stint as acting director that
year.  “I look forward to assisting clients in navigating the
ever-changing regulatory landscape and joining former colleagues
from the SEC,” Brigagliano said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 