-- 
Gender Inequality Holds Back Growth: Study

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/women-s-workforce-rights-are-smart-economics-world-bank-says.html
Empowering women is “smart
economics,” the  World Bank  says in a report whose message
resonates with white-collar workers like unemployed Chilean
investment adviser Fanny Contreras, who said gender
discrimination may make it harder to find the job she wants.  “In the area of financial services, there are some jobs
that are exclusively for men like currency trading desks and
analysis departments,” 36-year-old Contreras, who would like to
be a trader, said in a Sept. 16 telephone interview. “Men apply
for jobs that in theory are more thought-based, but I don’t see
it that way.”  Labor-market restraints that women like Contreras say they
face may also hold back Chile’s development, according to the
World Bank  report  released yesterday. The study, which looks at
the progress of  gender equality  around the world, says it’s in
countries’ economic interest to increase women’s opportunities
because that in turn raises productivity and improves children’s
futures.  Over the past 30 years, women’s life expectancy has
increased, along with their access to education and to the labor
market, according to the report. At the same time, their
 mortality rate  is higher in poor countries due in part to
dangerous child births and preferences for boy children, while
women work also in less profitable industries and have less say
in household and society, it said.  “We will not release the full potential of half of the
world’s population until globally we address the issue of
equality,” World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  told students
in  Washington  last week.  Global Workforce  While the share of women in the labor market has increased
over the past decades to reach 40 percent, it has not translated
into equal employment opportunities or equal earning, the
Washington-based World Bank said.  In agriculture, where 43 percent of workers are women, they
operate smaller plots of land, which rarely belong to them, the
report showed.  In  Kenya , only 5 percent of registered landholders are
women. Improving their property rights in  Burkina Faso  would
increase households’ farming output by 6 percent by reallocating
resources such as fertilizer, the bank estimates.  Less than  one in two women  of working age is employed in
 Chile  and the country “is losing out on a major source of
wealth and development by not opening doors wider to women,”
Carolina Schmidt, the women’s service minister said in a Sept.
16 phone interview.  Work, Family  Balancing work and family is one of the country’s major
challenges, Schmidt said. The government wants to change  labor
laws  that have companies help bear the cost of daycare, making
women more expensive to hire, she said.  Contreras, the jobseeker, says she has felt the concern she
might go on maternity leave from some potential employers.  “They ask things about your personal life: Do you have a
boyfriend? Do you want to have children?” she said. “They
disguise it like they’re trying to get to know you better, but
the question is still asked.”  Countries’ income growth alone doesn’t automatically
improve women’s conditions, according to the report. Gender gaps
in productivity and earnings are difficult to narrow because
they can be rooted in social norms, such as the amount of work
at home women do relative to men, it said.  In some countries, the idea of women working has yet to
make its way into society. In Jordan, where 17 percent of women
between the age of 20 and 45 years work compared with 77 percent
of men, the World Bank is running a  pilot program  of short-term
wage subsidies and skills training to give companies a chance to
hire young female graduates and overcome their prejudices.  Young Graduates  To enroll the young graduates from community colleges,
their fathers and brothers had to be reassured it was safe, said
Tara Vishwanath, who manages the program.  One of the participants “got a job in a little school,”
she said in a phone interview. “Even though she got permission
from her father, her brother came for a week, looked around the
school to see and made surprise visits to make sure she was
there.”  There’s room for progress in developed economies as well.
Across the street from the bank in Washington, the  International
Monetary Fund  has set some goals to increase the share of women
in the organization, IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
told a conference last week.  If the first female leader of the IMF has a say, Contreras
may have better chances of getting a trader’s job. Lagarde, who
works with a board of directors where men hold 23 out of the 24
seats, has said she is in favor of more gender balance in the
financial sector.  “I have seen trading rooms and I might upset a few boys,”
Lagarde said. “A more balanced environment is better for more
thinking, more rationale behind decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  