-- 
Tyco International Three-Way Split Creates Takeover Targets, Analysts Say

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-09-19T20:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/tyco-international-plans-to-split-into-three-separately-traded-companies.html
Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  plans to
break itself into three publicly traded companies that may prove
more attractive to potential suitors on their own than as pieces
of a conglomerate.  The separation, ending a decade in which Chief Executive
Officer Ed Breen transformed the scandal-plagued conglomerate
into a  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index outperformer, will create
standalone companies from ADT’s North American residential
security, flow-control and the world’s biggest commercial
security and fire-systems division.  “The rationale for a split versus an outright sale is that
these three constituent pieces did not make sense for one single
bidder, but there are several that could see strategic rationale
in the different pieces,” C. Stephen Tusa, a New York-based
analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note to investors.  The new companies may reach a breakup value as high as $70
a share, Vertical Research Partners co-founder Jeffrey Sprague
wrote in a note to clients today. Sprague, who raised his rating
on Tyco to “buy” in August, said all of the new businesses are
possible takeover candidates. Breen declined during an interview
to say whether Tyco had been approached by suitors interested in
the whole or parts of the company in recent months.  Tyco climbed $1.05, or 2.4 percent, to $44.75 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, even amid declines
in the broader  S&P 500 . Under Breen, the stock more than doubled
before today while the S&P 500 rose 43 percent. Former Tyco
Chief Financial Officer Chris Coughlin will oversee the breakup,
Tyco said.  Strategic Rationale  “A split is not surprising whatsoever,” said  Joel Levington , managing director at Brookfield Investment Management
Inc., who once was a Standard & Poor’s credit analyst following
the company. “There was not a lot of strategic rationale for
holding onto the asset mix they had. That is one of the key
underpinnings behind our underperform opinion of Tyco credit.”  Before the split, “there was no upside from low single-A”
 credit rating , he said.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services placed the company on
CreditWatch with negative implications after the announcement.  Breen, who took over in July 2002, will stay on as non-
executive chairman for fire and security, a director at flow
control and a consultant to ADT. Shareholders will get stock in
each of the three companies under the tax-free spinoff
structure, which will take about 12 months to complete.  Tyco plans to continue paying its quarterly dividend until
the split, after which the three businesses will pay a combined
dividend of about the same amount. The company has about $700
million to spend on share repurchases, which it plans to resume
after making none so far this quarter pending announcement of
the spinoff.  ‘Growth Potential’  The transaction will probably have one-time costs of $700
million from refinancing debt as well as restructuring and
separation, Tyco said.  “We’re obviously splitting these three because we think
they’re going to do well on their own,” Breen said in an
interview. “They are in industries where people want to
consolidate the market. We want our three businesses to be able
to play in that environment.”  Breen succeeded CEO L.  Dennis Kozlowski , who exited amid a
criminal investigation for personal  tax evasion . Kozlowski ran
the company for a decade, boosting revenue with acquisitions.
When Breen joined Tyco, revenue was about $35.6 billion. Last
fiscal year’s sales were less than half that amount, after about
25 divestitures and splitting the company into three in 2007.  Spinoff Chiefs  Tyco under Breen created two other companies in that split:
Tyco Electronics, now known as TE Connectivity Ltd., a maker of
electronic components, and  Covidien Plc (COV) , a maker of medical
devices and supplies.  Tyco’s most recent split “has been a thought since, quite
frankly, we separated the company three years ago,” Breen said
on the call. Complexity was among the reasons Tyco didn’t spin
off the businesses at the same time as its earlier move, he
said.  “The real big reason, though, was that we thought these
sets of businesses could be run much better than they were being
run,” he said. “They were very fragmented at that time.”  Because Breen will be on the boards of two of the resulting
companies, investors will see he’s confident about the move, he
said in the interview.  “People will know that, ‘Hey, Ed’s 100 percent behind
this,’ so that even on a personal level I really believe in
this,” Breen said.  “I think it’s going to play out very well
for our shareholders.”  ‘No External Factor’  There was “no external factor,” such as pressure from an
activist shareholder, in the decision, he said. “It’s kind of
nice we were able to take our time, really walk our way through
it with our board and come to the right decision,” Breen said.  Each of the Tyco spinoffs will be headed by current company
executives. The largest, commercial fire and security, will
remain headquartered in  Switzerland  and garner about $10.2
billion a year in revenue, with about 69,000 employees, the
company said. George Oliver will move to the post of CEO from
president of the fire-protection segment.  The business may be wooed by  Schneider Electric SA (SU) , United
Technologies Corp., Siemens AG, Johnson Controls Inc. or
Honeywell International Inc., Vertical Research’s Sprague wrote.
Tyco itself was the object of advances from Schneider in April.  Takeover Targets  ADT will have annual revenue of about $3.1 billion and
employ 16,000, Tyco said. It will be based in the U.S. and
headed by Naren Gursahaney, currently president of security
solutions. ADT may be a target for Comcast Corp., Verizon
Communications Inc., Stanley Black & Decker Inc. or private
equity firms, Sprague said.  The flow-control company, the world’s biggest maker of
industrial valves, will be based outside the U.S. and headed by
Patrick Decker, who is now the division’s president. The
business will have yearly sales of about $3.6 billion and about
15,000 employees, Tyco said.  Sprague said the business may merge with a similar one spun
out by ITT Corp., or Flowserve Corp. or Sulzer AG. Additional
possibilities include acquisition by General Electric Co. or
United Technologies, he said.  The spinoffs are subject to final approval by Tyco’s board,
an opinion from the company’s tax lawyers, registration with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Tyco shareholder
authorization.  Tyco was advised on the breakup by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Lazard Ltd. Simpson Thacher & Bartlett provided legal
counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  