-- 
Zambian Voting Ends in Race That May Determine Copper Policy

-- B y   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-09-20T16:33:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-19/zambians-vote-in-election-as-candidates-differ-on-copper-policy.html
Zambians ended voting in
presidential and parliamentary elections that may define how the
southern African nation spends the proceeds of a rapidly
expanding copper industry.  President Rupiah Banda’s main challenger is  Michael Sata ,
leader of the opposition Patriotic Front who lost three times
previously. Banda, 74, won by a margin of two percentage points
in 2008, keeping the Movement for Multiparty Democracy in power
after the death in office of Levy Mwanawasa. Voting stations
closed at 6 p.m. local time with results expected in 48 hours,
Prissila Isaacs, executive director of the Electoral Commission
of Zambia, said by phone from Lusaka.  “Although Banda goes into the presidential ballot as the
marginal favorite, the outcome in this poll is far too close to
predict, with many voters expected to make up their minds at the
last minute,” Gus Selassie, senior African analyst at IHS
Global Insight in London, said in an e-mailed statement.  The 73-year-old Sata, known to his supporters as “King
Cobra” for his aggressive style, says his party will seek more
revenue from mining companies with operations in Zambia,
including  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,  Vale SA (VALE5) ,  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  and
 First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  The promise has attracted jobless
youths and helped boost interest in the vote: the number of
registered voters jumped to 5.2 million people from 3.9 million
three years ago, according to the elections commission.  Investor Praise  Banda has won praise from investors and the  International
Monetary Fund  for reducing taxes and continuing policies that
opened up the industry to investment, helping to boost copper
production to more than 700,000 metric tons last year. He has
reassured investors that his government won’t follow the lead of
neighboring  Zimbabwe  and demand stakes in foreign companies.  Banda led Sata by 41 percent to 38 percent in an opinion
poll conducted in August by the Lusaka-based Centre for Policy
Dialogue. Six percent of respondents were undecided. A survey by
the same group in April showed Sata would win the presidential
vote and that his party will take the most seats in the
legislative election, also to be held today.  Long lines formed at voting stations across the capital and
the election was peaceful, Sylvia Bwalya spokeswoman for
 electoral commission  said in an interview in Lusaka. A group of
MMD supporters attacked Sata’s car, according to the Patriotic
Front. The opposition leader was unhurt, the party said.  ’Money in Pocket’  Banda’s smiling face on posters promises “jobs, stability
and security,” while Sata’s pledge is to put “more money in
your pocket.”  “Here in Lusaka we will be voting for Sata, especially us
young people,” said Evelyn Soko, 24, a self-employed
seamstress. “We’ve had enough of corruption now and we need
jobs. Of course, Banda may win because the rural people and the
older generations prefer him.”  Zambia’s copper output will probably double to 1.5 million
tons by 2015, according to the government. Economic growth has
averaged 6.5 percent a year since Banda became president three
years ago, according to the IMF.  Zambia may become the fifth-largest copper-mining country
in the world by 2013, according to Sophie Chung, an analyst at
Wood Mackenzie unit Brook Hunt in  London . Producers are planning
more than $6 billion in investment over that period, she said.
Chile is the world’s biggest copper producer, with annual
production of more than 5 million tons.  Copper Investment  Vedanta unit Konkola Copper Mines Plc and First Quantum’s
Trident Project declined to comment on the election and possible
taxes when contacted by Bloomberg News, according to their
spokesmen.  While Sata won’t “kill the goose that lays the egg,” the
Patriotic Front will demand more from mining companies to ensure
Zambians have “something to fall back on when the resources are
depleted,” party spokesman Given Lubinda said Sept. 14. New
measures will be introduced after consulting with companies if
Sata wins the election, he said.  “One thing for sure is that we shall introduce a tax that
shall ensure Zambians earn more money than they are earning
today,” Lubinda said.  While Banda may win the presidential vote, the Patriotic
Front could form an alliance with the United Party for National
Development, led by Hakainde Hichilema, to take the lead in the
country’s 158-seat  parliament ,  Leon Myburgh , sub-Saharan Africa
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in Johannesburg, said Sept. 15.  Should Sata win the election, his actions will likely be
more pragmatic than his words during campaigning, Patrick Mair,
an analyst with  Control Risks Group  in London, said by phone
Sept. 15.  “Sata has been making contentious statements bordering on
the xenophobic,” he said. “He’s flirted with nationalization
and the idea of higher taxes, but he’s an archetypal populist.
Sata will be far more conciliatory if he is in power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Mukwita in Lusaka via Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Lusaka via Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  