-- ABB Profit Beats Estimates as China, Germany Orders Grow
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-10-24T11:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/abb-profit-beats-estimates-as-china-germany-orders-grow.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  Chief Executive Officer
Ulrich Spiesshofer, one month into the job, said he will extend
the strategy of his predecessor that helped earnings beat
estimates and add extra focus on driving sales across units.  The integration of $10 billion of acquisitions and
penetrating deeper into existing markets are current priorities
for the world’s largest maker of power transformers, Spiesshofer
said. ABB shares  rose  as much as 4.7 percent, the most in eight
months, after today’s profit surprise.  Spiesshofer is taking on the top job at the Zurich-based
company as it prospers from takeovers in the U.S. and the
addition of electric motors, low-voltage gear products and solar
inverters to its portfolio. China and  Germany  bolstered ABB’s
orders in the third quarter. By contrast, a CEO switch at rival
 Siemens AG (SIE)  comes at a more challenging time, marked by abandoned
targets and lost market share.  “I don’t think it’s terribly radical, but it’s sensible
and a logical extension of what his predecessor did,” said
Andrew Bell, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. “The ability
to collaborate, to cross-sell, to find solutions, to improve
penetration across your product range, and to make customers
more aware of you, will improve pricing power.”  ABB traded 3.8 percent higher at 22.79 francs as of 12:30
p.m. in Zurich.  M&A Payback  The $8 billion purchases of Thomas & Betts and Baldor
Electric, orchestrated by then-CEO Joe Hogan, brought greater
exposure to the U.S., where the economy is faring better than in
 Europe . Third-quarter net income rose 10 percent to $835
million, beating an average $789.4 million estimate of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ABB’s current structure will remain intact, and those cost-cutting and efficiency-boosting measures that Hogan, aided by
Spiesshofer, introduced during the 2008 financial crisis will
remain in place.  “Market penetration will be a key element that we really
drive -- and that might be a key difference between Joe and
myself,” he said.  Hunting Grounds  Among the appointments that have coincided with
Spiesshofer’s arrival is Greg Scheu, heading acquisition
integration and North American operations.  Spiesshofer said there’s more room for “disciplined M&A,”
flagging plans to grow organically and through deals in subsea
power and control technologies for the oil and gas industry, car
charging infrastructure, and in solar photovoltaic technologies.  Purchases have helped buoy results as some markets remained
stagnant in 2013. Third-quarter sales rose 8 percent to $10.5
billion, also beating analyst estimates. There are now signs of
a recovery, with ABB’s base orders -- smaller contracts of less
than $15 million that are the backbone of sales, growing in the
quarter for the first time this year.  “Large orders are still a little bit slower in the pick-up,” Spiesshofer said in a video on ABB’s  website . “We have
some delay in decision-making in Europe, some delay in decision-making in the  mining industry .”  Steady Transition  Spiesshofer has enjoyed a steadier transition into the top
job than Joe Kaeser who took over Munich-based competitor
Siemens AG in July after the ousting of  Peter Loescher . Siemens
plans to eliminate 15,000 posts, or 4 percent of its 370,000
workers worldwide, to catch up in profitability with rivals
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and ABB.  ABB has made “good progress” against its 2011 to 2015
goals and will continue to work towards the targets, Spiesshofer
said today. The Swiss company targets compound annual sales
growth of 7 to 10 percent between 2011 and 2015, and operational
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
margin of 13 to 19 percent over the same period.  Before today, shares of ABB had risen 17 percent this year,
compared with a 16 percent gain for Germany’s Siemens AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  