-- Abe’s Farmers Fight Fat as TPP Means Tariff Cuts in Japan
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-10-25T02:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/abe-s-farmers-fight-fat-as-tpp-means-tariff-cuts-in-japan.html
From rice for controlling blood
glucose levels to soybeans that reduce fatty acids,  Japan  is
seeking new ways to make money from agriculture as pressure
mounts to cut the tariffs its farmers rely on to make a living.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government estimates there’s a
potential 600 billion yen ($6.2 billion) market for so-called
functional foods, strains of mostly fruits, vegetables and
grains with provable health benefits beyond regular nutrition.
He’s put 2 billion yen into the agriculture ministry’s coffers
for a three-year project to develop new varieties of rice,
soybeans, barley, onions and buckwheat.  Japan’s senior citizens, whose ranks are swelling at the
fastest pace in the world, are a natural market for these
products that must be embraced as tariffs of as much as 778
percent on rice come under threat, said Makoto Nakatani, the
ministry’s research director. Abe is pursuing a place in the
Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact while  OECD  data shows the
nation’s farmers depend on government handouts for more than
half their income, versus 7 percent in the U.S.  “If we succeed in creating a market for functional foods
in Japan, we’ll be able to expand the business to other Asian
countries that sooner or later face the same aging problem as
us,” Nakatani said in an interview yesterday. “Enhanced health
benefits from these products should ultimately appeal to
consumers worldwide.”  Heart Disease  The National Agriculture and Food Research Organization, an
affiliate to the ministry, is working on a new strain of
soybeans with elevated levels of beta-conglycinin, a soy storage
protein that can reduce free fatty acids in the liver that
contribute to risks for cardiovascular disease and diabetes,
Nakatani said.  The first crops will be planted in Nagano prefecture in
central Japan, a region renowned for miso soup stock made from
soybeans. Japanese production of the oilseed rose 8 percent to
235,900 tons last year, while imports fell 3.7 percent to 2.73
million tons, according to data from the ministry.  Rice with a higher-than-normal amount of amylose, a
component of starch with the potential to curb blood glucose
levels, will appeal to people who want to reduce their weight,
according to Nakatani. Planting may begin as early as 2016 in
Niigata prefecture, the nation’s second-largest rice producer.  Japan’s population is declining after peaking at 127.79
million in 2004, according to the health ministry. It’s
projected to touch 120.67 million in 2025, while the ratio of
people aged 75 years or older rises to 18 percent from 11
percent in 2010.  ‘Live Longer’  Increasing consumption of functional foods may ease
pressure on the medical system while preserving an agricultural
industry that can’t compete head on with producers like Brazil
and the U.S.  “We’d like to meet the growing needs of elderly people to
stay healthy and live longer,” Vice Agriculture Minister
Yoshitsugu Minagawa said at a food industry conference Oct. 15.  Tetsuhide Mikamo, a director at the Marubeni Research
Institute in  Tokyo , said turning to niche markets and premium
produce alone wouldn’t be enough for agriculture to thrive.  “To increase exports, it’s more important to make Japanese
products affordable through cost cutting, rather than just make
the quality even better,” he said.  The new varieties cited by Nakatani are being developed
without using genetic modification technology.  GMO Labels  The ministry dropped a plan to commercialize Japan’s first
GMO rice after health authorities refused to approve it as food
and consumer groups said it could harm people and the
environment. The grain contained a cedar pollen gene and was
designed to alleviate hay fever.  Japan’s consumer affairs agency requires labeling of GMO
foods and the health ministry has approved 283 modified
varieties for human consumption, including corn, soybeans,
potatoes,  sugar beet , rapeseed and papaya.  Monsanto Co. (MON)  obtained approval this month from the ministry
for GMO soybeans with higher oleic acid that may help reduce LDL
cholesterol, said Yukie Sasaki, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for
the U.S. company.  DuPont Co. (DD)  also received permission for a GMO
soybean that may yield oil used by food processors and
restaurants in Japan, said Mieko Kasai, who handles regulatory
affairs in Japan for the Delaware-based company.  The combined annual income of Japanese farmers has halved
over the past two decades as domestic output shrank and food
prices fell, according to the Norinchukin Research Institute, a
Tokyo-based affiliate of the bank that serves the nation’s
agricultural, fishing and forestry cooperatives.  Abe has set a goal of doubling farm income and food exports
within the next decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  