-- Aberdeen Says in Talks to Acquire Lloyds’s SWIP Division
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-10-24T15:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/aberdeen-says-in-talks-to-buy-lloyds-s-swip-operation.html
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  said
it’s in talks to buy Scottish Widows Investment Partnership from
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , a deal that would make it  Europe ’s
largest publicly traded money manager. The stock jumped.  Aberdeen would pay for the acquisition by issuing new
shares to Lloyds, the Scottish money manager said in a statement
today. It would also make further payments in cash over time
depending on the performance of SWIP, which oversees about 146
billion pounds ($236 billion).  The purchase would increase Aberdeen’s assets to about 350
billion pounds, allowing it to surpass  Schroders Plc (SDR)  as Europe’s
biggest publicly traded fund company. It would also mark a
reversal of Aberdeen’s strategy to focus on growth without
acquisitions and returning cash to investors. Chief Executive
Officer Martin Gilbert had previously called an acquisition of
Scottish Widows Investment “highly unlikely.”  “Aberdeen is once again an acquisition-driven growth story
and not a dividend yield/capital-return story,” Peter Lenardos,
an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  who rates Aberdeen outperform,
said in a note to clients today.  The stock climbed 5.8 percent to 450.4 pence in London
trading, the biggest gain in more than a month. Lloyds rose 2.8
percent to 80.12 pence.  The  money manager  said that it’s also in talks to start a
“strategic partnership” with Lloyds, without giving further
details. Spokesmen for both companies declined to comment.  ‘Materially’ Enhancing’  “The company would expect any transaction agreed to be
materially earnings per share enhancing,” Aberdeen said in the
statement. “It would also reinforce the company’s commitment to
a progressive dividend policy and to return surplus capital to
shareholders over time.”  Aberdeen paid 11.5 pence a share in  dividends  in 2012, and
Lenardos said he expects the firm to pay 15 pence this year.  “While Aberdeen is likely to continue to increase its
dividend, it will likely do so more incrementally, and share
buybacks will occur ‘over time,’ which likely indicates not in
the short-term,” Lenardos said.  Equities accounted for 56 percent of Aberdeen’s assets
under management at the end of June. Of that, the firm invests
two-thirds in global  emerging markets  and Asia-Pacific stocks.
Only 2.8 percent of its stock holdings are in the U.K. and 0.9
percent in Europe. By comparison, more than a third of SWIP’s
assets are in U.K. and European equities, and it has just 1.7
billion pounds in emerging-market stocks.  Balancing Businesses  “A balance to the strength of Aberdeen’s emerging markets
business would probably be a good thing,” Stuart Duncan, an
analyst at Peel Hunt with a buy rating on the Scottish firm,
said in a telephone interview. “Their U.K. equities business is
relatively small and they could do with some more assets.”  Bloomberg News  reported on Sept. 24 Aberdeen was in talks
to buy SWIP. Macquarie Group Ltd.,  Australia ’s largest
investment bank, was among companies weighing an offer for SWIP,
people with knowledge of the talks said last month.  Lloyds CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio, 49, has been seeking to
bolster the company’s balance sheet by selling assets, cutting
costs and eliminating jobs following the bank’s government
bailout in 2008. The London-based lender purchased  Scottish
Widows (SWIPRTA) , which runs both a life-insurance business and the SWIP
fund-management operation, for 7.3 billion pounds in 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  