-- Madagascar Vote Begins in First Post-Coup Election
-- B y   A n n e l i e   R o z e b o o m
-- 2013-10-25T05:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/madagascar-vote-begins-in-first-post-coup-election.html
Madagascar takes a step toward
returning to democracy and ending its international isolation as
voters began casting ballots in the first presidential election
since a 2009 military-backed coup stalled the economy.  Thirty-three candidates are competing to replace President
 Andry Rajoelina , a former nightclub disc jockey who’s held power
in Antananarivo, the capital, after ousting Marc Ravalomanana
almost five years ago. About 7.8 million people are eligible to
cast ballots until 5 p.m. in the Indian Ocean island nation,
with provisional results expected by Nov. 8.  “The donor community wants the elections to happen so they
can turn the page and resume assistance to Madagascar because no
one can afford another long period of uncertainty,” Lydie Boka,
manager of StrategiCo, a risk-analysis company based in Lille,
 France , said by phone on Oct. 23. “It’s very important to have
elections to show it can uphold the rule of law.”  The coup plunged the country into crisis, stalling economic
growth and deepening poverty, with 92 percent of the population
now living on  $2 a day  or less, an increase of as much as 10
percentage points, making Madagascar one of the world’s poorest
countries, according to the World Bank.  The country lost eligibility to the U.S. African Growth and
Opportunity Act, which  enables  duty-free access for imports to
the U.S. market. That crippled the textile industry, which had
been a key driver of foreign investment and jobs, according to
the U.S. Congressional Research Service.  Aid Withdrawal  The African Union suspended the country and donors
including the European Union and the U.S. withdrew aid, which
accounted for 40 percent of Madagascar’s budget. Humanitarian
assistance has continued to flow.  “We are voting because the country needs to change,”
Patrick Razafindramanana, 50, a road-construction technician,
said as he waited in line to vote in Antananarivo. “We are
poor, the president has just been profiting.”  Among the top contenders are former Finance Minister Hery Rajaonarimampianina; Jean Louis Robinson, a medical doctor and
former cabinet minister under Ravalomanana; Roland Ratsiraka, a
nephew of ex-President Didier Ratsiraka; and ex-Foreign Minister
Pierrot Rajaonarivelo. Most candidates have similar policy
platforms, promising to boost access to electricity, increase
salaries and improve security, according to Boka.  Business in Madagascar has been hindered by mounting
infrastructure problems, including the deteriorating state of
power supplies and roads, according to the World Bank. The
crisis has probably cost the economy $8 billion in lost output.  Run-Off Vote  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , based in  London , has a $5 billion titanium
mine in the country,  Canada ’s  Sherritt International Corp. (S)  has a
40 percent stake in the Ambatovy nickel operation, and  Lemur
Resources Ltd. (LMR) , a Perth, Australia-based coal-exploration
company, runs the Imaloto thermal-coal project.  Even though Rajoelina, Ravalomanana and Ratsiraka are
barred from competing, they favor candidates who will allow them
to run the country from the sidelines, U.S.-based Strategic
Forecasting Inc. said in a note on Sept. 18.  If no candidate secures 50 percent support in the first
round, a run-off vote will be held Dec. 20, along with
legislative elections. The final outcome of today’s vote will be
announced by Nov. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annelie Rozeboom in Antananarivo at 
 arozeboom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  