-- Adani-Owned Coal-Port Operator Marketing Debut Australian Bond
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-10-24T03:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/adani-owned-coal-port-operator-marketing-debut-australian-bond.html
Adani Abbot Point Terminal Pty, the
Indian-owned coal-port operator seeking to expand facilities in
northern Queensland, plans to raise funds via a debut five-year
bond in  Australia .  The company is marketing the senior secured Australian-dollar notes at a spread of about 225 basis points more than the
swap rate, according to an e-mailed statement today from
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, which is managing the
transaction with Deutsche Bank AG and Westpac Banking Corp.  The port  leaseholder , part of  India ’s Adani Group, is
looking to take advantage of demand from Australian investors
for higher-yielding corporate credits. The benchmark-sized
transaction is expected to carry the lowest investment-grade
rating at both Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service.  Adani entered into an agreement in 2011 with the Queensland
government to lease the existing terminal at Abbot Point, the
country’s most northerly deep-water coal port, for 99 years,
according to the company’s  website . It’s seeking approval to
develop additional facilities to boost capacity and also wants
to build new facilities at Hay Point in northern Queensland,
home to two other export terminals.  Similarly-rated Lend Lease Group, Australia’s largest
listed property developer, sold A$250 million ($241 million) of
5 1/2 year notes in May at a spread of 235 basis points. The
notes are currently yielding about 165 basis points more than
swaps, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices show.  Downer EDI Ltd., a mining contractor which carries Fitch
Rating Ltd.’s second-lowest investment grade, paid 260 basis
points more than swaps to sell 5 1/2-year bonds in May. The
spread on those securities is now 236 basis points.  The average spread over swap rates on an index of corporate
Australian bonds was 105 basis points yesterday, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. Corporate spreads, which blew out
from a 2013 low of 103 basis points on March 28 to 129 basis
points on July 2 amid prospects for reduced Federal Reserve
stimulus, have tightened as the timing of tapering shifted.  Adani Abbot Point’s bond transaction is expected to price
today or tomorrow, according to CBA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  