-- America Movil Profit Drops as Mexico Drags on Mobile Growth
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-10-25T20:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/america-movil-profit-measure-declines-on-tougher-competition.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) , controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim , said  third-quarter  profit fell as
 Mexico ’s tepid economy overshadowed a recovery in South America.  Leaving out currency fluctuations and items such as
interest, earnings declined 0.5 percent from a year earlier,
America Movil said yesterday in a  statement . Slim’s company
added 3.1 million mobile-phone users, compared with the 4.3
million average estimate of five analysts polled by Bloomberg.  Mexican wireless customers reached 72.5 million, up 4.8
percent from a year earlier. That was a slowdown from 5.6
percent growth in the second quarter. Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Hajj is pushing to expand America Movil’s base of long-term subscribers by selling smartphones at a discount through
two-year contracts, aiming to keep customers from switching to
competitors such as  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Grupo Iusacell SA and  Tim
Participacoes SA. (TIMP3)   Including currency changes, earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization fell 5.8 percent to 63.3 billion
pesos ($4.9 billion), hurt by the decline of South American
currencies such as the Brazilian real, since America Movil
records its results from those countries in Mexican pesos.  America Movil rose 0.6 percent to 13.66 pesos at the close
in Mexico City. The shares have fallen 8.3 percent this year.  Service revenue in Mexico fell 2.1 percent from a year
earlier, compared with an 8.9 percent gain in South America --
the best in six quarters. Economists estimate Mexico expanded
0.9 percent in the third quarter, compared with 2.5 percent for
 Brazil , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chile Disconnections  Subscriber gains were also hurt by the disconnection of
335,000 wireless customers in  Chile  that weren’t using their
phones enough, America Movil said. U.S. unit TracFone added only
5,000 customers after the company disconnected some users
following changes to some phone plans.  America Movil added 1.4 million subscriptions for landline
services including phone, Internet and television, in line with
the average analyst estimate.  The company sought to expand beyond Latin America this year
through a failed $9.7 billion offer for Dutch telephone company
 Royal KPN NV. (KPN)   Third-quarter sales rose 0.7 percent to 194 billion pesos,
compared with the average estimate of 194.3 billion pesos. Net
income was 16.4 billion pesos, or 23 centavos a share, compared
with 30.5 billion pesos, or 40 centavos, a year earlier.  America Movil’s financial stake of about 30 percent in KPN
lowered net income by 1.2 billion pesos, the company said. A
foreign-exchange loss of 2.9 billion pesos also reduced net
income, compared with a gain of 9 billion pesos a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Mexico City at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  