-- Anglo CEO Cools on Minas-Rio Stake Sale as Prices Climb
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-10-24T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/anglo-ceo-cools-on-minas-rio-stake-sale-as-prices-climb.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the mining
company investing $16 billion in Brazil, is content keeping full
ownership of its Minas-Rio project as iron-ore prices recover
and development advances without fresh delays.  “We’re not keen to motor too quickly” on a partnership,
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said in an interview
following a conference on mine safety in Johannesburg yesterday.
“The way things are going and the better it looks, the more
inclined I am to stick with it ourselves.”  Anglo earlier this year said it was seeking a partner for
the $8.8 billion iron-ore mine after having to write down the
value of the project by $4 billion following cost overruns that
preceded the departure of former CEO  Cynthia Carroll . Prospects
for the mine are improving as Chinese demand for iron-ore
increases and building work meets targets, Cutifani said.  “I came out of a business that just delivered three major
projects on time and on schedule,” he said, referring to his
previous role as CEO of  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-largest producer of the precious metal. “I’m hoping that with
all the work we’ve done, we’ve got everything in place to
deliver the same sort of result, given that we’ve had a tough
time early.”  First ore shipments from Minas-Rio are scheduled for late
2014 after years of delays and budget increases. Iron ore for
immediate delivery at Tianjin port in China, a benchmark price
for the commodity, was little changed at $133.20 a metric ton
yesterday, according to a  price index  compiled by The Steel
Index Ltd. It has risen 21 percent since the beginning of June.  Anglo ‘Happy’  “The price of iron ore has been doing a little bit better
than before,” Cutifani said. “That’s good news. China has been
doing pretty well. We’re happy to be where we are today, albeit
disappointed at what we had to pay for the project overrun.”  Even so, Anglo American would sell a stake in the mine
providing it creates value for shareholders, he said. “We had a
number of people who said they’d be interested in having a chat,
so we’re still open.”  Anglo plans to invest more than 35 billion reais ($15.9
billion) in Brazil in the 2007-2014 period, Cutifani said last
month at a conference in  Belo Horizonte .  Cutifani told the safety conference in Johannesburg
yesterday mining fatalities from rock falls in  South Africa  fell
by 50 percent to 16 in 2012, compared with the previous year,
after the creation of a CEO Elimination of Fatalities Team.
There have been 13 deaths from rock falls this year in South
Africa.  ‘Proud Achievement’  The group comprises CEOs from 13 companies including
 Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) ,  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  and  Anglo American Platinum
Ltd. (AMS)  who share and seek to improve safety methods.  “The relative improvement in South Africa has been better
than anywhere else,” Cutifani said. “We’re very proud of
that.”  Companies, unions and the South African government aim to
come up with a plan to compensate mine workers who have
contracted diseases such as  lung cancer  and silicosis in the
next 12 to 18 months, he said.  “Given we’ve made such a big improvement on safety, we
have to work out how we can make those strides and even more in
health,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  