-- Apple’s Russia Push May Fizzle on Price as IPhones Go Global
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-10-25T12:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/apple-s-russia-push-may-fizzle-on-price-as-new-iphones-go-global.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s push to win users in
Russia, one of the countries where the latest iPhones went on
sale today, may fall short as the new model has a major
drawback: it’s still too expensive.  Six years after the iPhone’s introduction, Apple’s share of
Russia’s smartphone market is hovering at about 8 percent as the
device is too pricey for all but the wealthiest of the country’s
143 million people.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  has grabbed more
than 50 percent of Russian sales with its cheaper devices
running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  For the first time, Apple is bringing out a cheaper iPhone
along with a higher-end model to “serve even more customers”
around the world. With the retail price in  Russia  about $160
less than the top version, the 5c is still set to cost almost
$800 -- about the country’s average monthly income.  “If Apple really wants to compete with Samsung, it
should’ve come up with a much lower price for the 5c,” said
Simon Baker, an analyst at IDC in Moscow. “It’s really a matter
of what Apple wants: to have a really global product and retain
market share as the smartphone market moves toward cheaper price
brackets, or to focus on making the maximum profit.”  The Russian market highlights Cupertino, California-based
Apple’s dilemma as it balances between keeping its industry-topping  profit margins  and challenging Samsung’s dominance in
high-growth markets. Apple’s sales growth slowed to less than 1
percent last quarter, placing more pressure on Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Cook  to go after new customer groups.  Subsidies Banned  Apple’s difficulties in many  emerging markets , including
Russia, stem from the way handsets are priced and purchased.
Whereas in the U.S. wireless carriers subsidize devices in
exchange for longer contracts and larger monthly bills, in
Russia that isn’t allowed.  That means consumers have to pay the full price, leaving
high-end models out of reach for many. In the U.S., a consumer
can buy the iPhone 5c for $99.99 with a two-year contract.  The price reduction does signal that Apple is gradually
taking markets such as Russia more seriously -- though it needs
to be even more aggressive to tap growth in such countries, said
Baker. Too high prices also threaten to curb the new iPhone’s
sales in markets including  India  and  China . “Half of the globe
is non-operator markets,” he said.  Surging Market  This year, Apple’s sales in Russia have been driven by
older versions, which include the 4s that costs about $500,
Baker said. And those wealthy enough to afford the latest
version are likely to opt for the high-end 5s model, Baker said.  At Re:Store, a Russian store chain focusing on Apple
products, the 5s has been outselling the 5c by about 10 to 1
today, said Lyudmila Semushina, a spokeswoman for the retailer.
Demand has been higher than during last year’s debut of the
iPhone 5, she said. She declined to give sales numbers.  The 5c’s price didn’t prevent Oleg Barmin, 33, from
snapping up a yellow version in Kaliningrad, Russia.  “I wish the 5c was cheaper,” said Barmin, who works as a
marketing director for a blog service. “Still, the price in
Russia is the same as in  Europe . I am thinking about buying the
5s also as I need several phones for my work.”  Russian shoppers can also buy the new iPhones at retailers
such as Svyaznoy and Euroset. Wireless carriers OAO Mobile
Telesystems and  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  will also resume carrying the new
iPhones through agreements with other distributors.  Larger Screens  Russia is among about 30 countries where the new iPhones go
on sale  today . Next week, sales expand further to more than a
dozen nations including India, another fast-growing market where
Apple commands less than 10 percent of sales. The debut in the
U.S., China, and other markets, was Sept. 20.  In Russia, at stake is a share of a smartphone market that
soared 65 percent in the first half to 7.6 million units,
according to IDC. Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , boosted
its share to 54 percent from 40 percent. Apple, whose market
share budged to 8.3 percent from 7.9 percent, competed for the
second spot with  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)   Samsung reported record third-quarter earnings today,
helped by sales of cheaper smartphones in emerging markets such
as eastern Europe. In Russia, Samsung has also benefited from
demand for large-screen handsets, often dubbed phablets, Alexey
Dorofeev, head of Samsung Mobile in the country, said in an
interview in July. That’s a category Apple doesn’t have a
product for.  Cook said in July Apple is “really happy” with its
performance in Russia. Bethan Lloyd, an Apple spokeswoman in
 London , declined to comment.  Worldwide, the iPhone’s market share fell to 13 percent in
the second quarter from about 17 percent a year earlier, while
Samsung kept its share at above 30 percent, according to IDC.  “IPhone sales aren’t doing great globally,” Eldar
Murtazin, an independent analyst in Moscow, said by phone.
“Such a large market as Russia may help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  