-- Marrone Bio Spurns Takeover Offers in Bet on Bio Pesticides Boom
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-10-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/marrone-bio-spurns-takeover-offers-in-bet-on-bio-pesticides-boom.html
Marrone Bio Innovations Inc. (MBII) , a
maker of biological weed- and pest-killers that sold shares in
an initial public offering this year, spurned takeover
approaches in a bet that it can grow faster independently in its
booming niche market.  The market for biological-crop sprays is growing three
times faster than the market for chemical pesticides, chief
executive officer and founder Pam Marrone said in an interview.
She declined to comment on which companies approached Davis,
California-based Marrone Bio, in which the world’s largest
pesticide-maker  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  owns 13 percent.  Pesticide-makers such as  Switzerland ’s Syngenta as well as
Bayer AG and BASF SE of  Germany  are seeking environmentally
friendly technology as the European Union phases out hundreds of
agrochemical products and supermarkets require fewer chemical
residues on foods. Syngenta has said it could lose $75 million
in sales from a two-year EU ban on its Thiamethoxam chemical
amid concerns to bee health. The EU ban will take effect Dec. 1.  “We have a significant headstart,” said Marrone, a former
excecutive of the world’s largest seed company Monsanto Co.,
where she led the company’s insect-control division from 1983 to
1990. “The big guys are 10 years away -- they are getting into
it through acquisitions and in licensing.”  Marrone Bio turned down suitors following a “buying
frenzy” last year, which included Bayer’s purchase of
AgraQuest, Syngenta’s acquisition of Belgian hybrid-rice seed
maker DevGen and BASF’s purchase of Becker Underwood Inc., she
said.  ‘Really Fast’  “We sorted through the incoming interest -- and when we
saw where it was going to go we said we would go really fast to
IPO because there was a window opening,” the CEO said.  Since the August share sale, which raised $56 million,
Marrone Bio shares have risen about 50 percent, valuing the
company at $345 million.  Syngenta, which has a market valuation of 34 billion francs
($38 billion), is the company’s largest shareholder through it’s
venture capital unit. Dutch chemical company Royal DSM NV,
 Japan ’s Mitsui Chemicals Inc. and the world’s largest asset
manager,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , are also investors.  The company’s growth and successful share sale is a
validation for Marrone after she missed out on an IPO in 2001
for AgraQuest, another biological pest management solutions
company she founded in 1995. Marrone was later ousted as CEO,
and Chemtura Corp. executive Marcus Meadows-Smith was chosen by
investors to replace her. Bayer bought the company for $425
million in 2012.  Biological Herbicides  Marrone Bio’s biological herbicides and insecticides are
also in demand as they can help to mitigate the effects of
resistance to existing crop chemicals and can be brought to
market more quickly, said Vice President Jim Lappin, who joined
last month from the agricultural division of chemical research
company  FMC Corp. (FMC)   The company is sticking to a plan to become profitable in
2015, with about $250 million in sales two years later, the CEO
said. The company is on track to double sales this year from the
$7 million achieved in 2012, senior vice president Hector Absi
said in the same interview.  As much as $40 million of the IPO proceeds will be used to
build a fermentation facility in Bangor,  Michigan  for
manufacturing bio pesticides, Marrone said at the  International
Biocontrol Manufacturers Association  meeting in Basel. The
company has no plans to sell more shares, except to fund
acquisitions, she said.  Faster Approval  Lappin said the focus on environmentally friendly offerings
cuts costs and speeds up regulatory approval.  Large agrochemical companies are producing increasingly
fewer active chemical ingredients, which can cost $250 million
to develop over a period of about nine years, he said. Marrone
Bio’s Regalia, Grandevo and Zequanox offerings moved through
development, approval by the Environmental Protection Agency and
U.S. market launch in about four years at a cost of $6 million
each, according to a Marrone Bio SEC  filing .  While bioinsecticide Grandevo offers protection against a
wide range of insects and mites, Regalia is a biofungicide to
improve root development and plant growth. Zequanox is an
aquatic pesticide, composed of dead cells of a naturally
occurring microbe.  Asked whether she might be tempted to sell the company at a
later stage, Marrone said that she wants to grow the company
independently.  “If it was up to me, I would stay independent,” she said.
“I think we can grow faster and innovate more. Our goal is to
be the largest independent biopesticide company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  