-- S&P 500 Gains on Earnings; Treasuries, Mexico Peso Rise
-- B y   W i l l   H a d f i e l d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-10-25T20:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/australian-futures-rise-after-u-s-jump-as-yen-holds-gain.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a record, as sales at  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  beat estimates. Treasuries climbed amid
bets the  Federal Reserve  will maintain stimulus and Mexico’s
peso climbed as the central bank signaled a halt to rate cuts.  The  S&P 500  increased 0.4 percent to 1,759.13 and the
Nasdaq-100 Index added 0.6 percent to a 13-year high of 3,383.83
at 4 p.m. in New York. Ten-year Treasury yields lost 1.5 basis
points and the Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index was little changed.
The peso strengthened against all 16 major peers. West Texas
Intermediate crude rose for a second day, while coffee futures
extended the longest slump in 11 years.  Microsoft said business software and cloud services boosted
revenue, while Amazon’s sales jumped before the  holiday shopping
season . Metal prices recovered after retreating earlier as
China’s one-month interbank rate  surged  the most since June.
German business confidence unexpectedly declined this month,
while the U.K.’s economy expanded at a faster pace in the third
quarter. Data on U.S. consumer confidence and capital goods
orders trailed estimates.  “The market is refocusing itself on corporate earnings,
which are turning in somewhat better than expected,” Alan Gayle , senior investment strategist and director of asset
allocation at RidgeWorth Capital Management, said by phone from
Atlanta. His firm oversees about $48 billion. “Valuation is
still reasonable and the economy appears to getting better. The
market does look a bit extended so it wouldn’t surprise me if we
saw some near-term pullback.”  Valuations  The S&P 500 has risen more than 23 percent in 2013,
challenging a similar gain in 2009 for the best  yearly rally  in
a decade. The advance has pushed  valuations  to 16.7 times
reported earnings, the highest level since May 2010 while close
to the average of about 16.4 over the last 10 years. Earnings
beat the average analyst estimate at 76 percent of the 244
companies in the index that have released results so far in the
latest reporting season, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.S. equities capped a third straight weekly gain, with the
S&P 500 climbing 0.9 percent in five sessions and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  increased 1.1 percent.  Microsoft jumped 6 percent to the highest price since July
after quarterly sales and profit exceeded analyst estimates.
Microsoft is weathering slumping personal-computer sales by
focusing on its Xbox video game system, business software and
cloud services, as departing Chief Executive Officer  Steve
Ballmer  seeks to make the company less dependent on its Windows
operating system.  Amazon, Zynga  Amazon surged 9.4 percent to a record $363.39. The world’s
largest online retailer said its quarterly net loss narrowed to
$41 million from $274 million a year earlier as revenue jumped
24 percent. Zynga Inc. soared 5.5 percent as it posted a
smaller-than-expected loss because purchases of items used in
computer games exceeded the company’s forecast.  Utility, telephone and consumer-discretionary shares led
gains in all 10 of the main S&P 500 industry groups. A
government report showed orders for U.S. equipment such as
computers and machinery unexpectedly declined in September for
the second time in three months, indicating business spending
was weakening ahead of the partial government shutdown earlier
this month.  Bookings for non-military capital goods excluding aircraft
decreased 1.1 percent, the Commerce Department reported. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a 1 percent
gain. A surge in aircraft demand led to a 3.7 percent jump in
total durable orders.  Economic Data  Consumer confidence in the U.S. dropped in October to a 10-month low, showing the reopening of the federal government
failed to reassure households. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final consumer sentiment index decreased to 73.2, the
weakest this year and below the median estimate in a survey of
economists for a decline to 75.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped less than 0.1 percent.
About three stocks fell for every two that rose on the Stoxx
600.  A gauge of carmakers retreated as  Renault SA (RNO)  dropped 3.2
percent. France’s second-largest carmaker reported third-quarter
revenue that dropped 3.2 percent to 8 billion euros ($11
billion), missing the  average analyst estimate  of 8.5 billion
euros in a Bloomberg survey.  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  slid 6.6 percent after the
world’s second-biggest truckmaker reported earnings before
interest and taxes that unexpectedly declined and missed the
average analyst estimate in the three months through September.  U.K. Economy  A report from the  Office for National Statistics  showed
that U.K.  gross domestic product  expanded 0.8 percent in the
third quarter, its fastest pace in more than three years, as the
recovery continued in every major industry. That matched the
median estimate of 40 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Treasury 10-year note  yields  dropped 1.5 basis points, or
0.015 percentage point, to 2.51 percent, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The yield lost 7 basis points this week,
extending its decline from this year’s high of 3.005 percent on
Sept. 6.  Italian 10-year bonds fell for a third consecutive day,
pushing the yield seven basis points higher to 4.22 percent.  Sweden’s krona strengthened against 14 of 16 major peers,
adding 0.5 percent to 8.7230 per euro after a report showed
 consumer confidence  increased.  New Zealand’s currency weakened 0.9 percent to 82.82 U.S.
cents as it fell versus all 16 major peers after central bank
Governor Graeme Wheeler said he was “concerned” a stronger
currency may dent trade. New Zealand’s dollar retreated 0.4
percent against the Aussie, extending its slide this week to 1.6
percent. A fifth week of declines would be the longest stretch
since May 2012.  New Zealand  “We have a very strong  exchange rate ,”  Reserve Bank  of
New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler said in an interview with
the national radio broadcaster. Increasing interest rates
“would put upward pressure on the exchange rate and damage our
traded-goods sector. We’re quite concerned about that risk.”  Copper climbed 0.1 percent to $7,185 a metric ton, after
earlier losing as much as 0.3 percent. China is the biggest
buyer of industrial metals. West Texas Intermediate oil
increased 0.7 percent to $97.80 a barrel and is down almost 3
percent this week, its biggest retreat since September.  Gold analysts are bullish for a second week on speculation
that prolonged U.S. stimulus and a weakening dollar will boost
demand for the metal as a haven.  Seventeen analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  expect prices
to advance next week, nine are bearish and six neutral. The
Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , a measure against 10 currencies,
slid to an eight-month low this week as U.S. employers added
fewer jobs than expected last month. Gold’s 30-week correlation
coefficient to the index is at minus 0.54, with a figure of
minus 1 meaning the two always move in opposite directions.  Government Shutdown  A 16-day U.S. government shutdown this month probably hurt
economic growth, at a time when the Federal Reserve is debating
whether to trim stimulus. Gold rose 70 percent from December
2008 to June 2011 as the Fed pumped more than $2 trillion into
the financial system. The metal tumbled into a  bear market  in
April and is heading for its first annual drop in 13 years as
some investors lost faith in bullion as a store of value.  Japan Tumble  Japanese stocks fell, with the Topix index slumping 2.1
percent for the worst drop in more than two months, as the yen
extended gains against the dollar during Tokyo trading hours and
exporters slid. Toyota Motor Corp., Asia’s largest car
manufacturer, fell 2.1 percent. SoftBank Corp., a mobile-phone
company, lost 4.8 percent after a report Alibaba Group Holding
Ltd. abandoned plans for an initial public offering in the near
term.  After markets closed in Asia and Europe, an earthquake with
a magnitude of 7.6 struck 311 miles east-northeast of Tokyo,
Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said in preliminary earthquake
report.  Developing-nation stocks retreated for the third day, with
the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index losing 0.4 percent today and 1.4
percent in five sessions, the steepest weekly decline in two
months. The Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index and the  Hang
Seng (HSCEI)  China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in
Hong Kong each lost more than 1 percent.  Mexican Peso  Mexico’s peso rallied after the central bank cut the
benchmark  interest rate  for the second straight month in an
effort to revive the economy from the slowest growth since it
slipped into recession amid the 2009 global financial crisis.  Banco de Mexico reduced the overnight  lending rate  by 25
basis points to a record-low 3.50 percent, saying that reducing
borrowing costs below this level wouldn’t be advisable. The cut
was forecast by 21 out of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Three expected a half-point reduction, while two predicted rates
would stay on hold.  Coffee futures fell as the crop outlook improved in Brazil,
the world’s largest grower, boosting speculation that the global
glut will expand. Arabica coffee for December delivery fell 1.1
percent to $1.091 a pound, the lowest in more than four years.
The commodity capped a ninth straight decline, the longest slump
since January 2002.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Hadfield in London at 
 whadfield@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  