-- Australian IPO Rush to See Dozen Listings By Year-End, CBA Says
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-10-24T03:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/australian-ipo-rush-to-see-dozen-listings-by-year-end-cba-says.html
Around a dozen companies are
planning to list on  Australia ’s stock exchange by year-end as
business confidence surges following a change in the nation’s
government, according to  Commonwealth Bank of Australia .  Between 10 and 12 initial public offerings are expected
within the next two months, Mike Neal, CBA’s executive director
of  capital markets , told a conference in Sydney today. Demand
for the shares should see price gains of between 5 percent and
10 percent on the first day of trading, he said.  Australian IPOs have raised about $2 billion this year, a
44 percent rise from the $1.4 billion raised in 2012, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Business confidence in the nation
last month reached its highest since April 2010, according to
National Australia Bank. Sentiment was boosted after the Labor
government was ousted by  Tony Abbott ’s coalition, which pledged
to cut red tape and lower taxes.  “The window is open, there’s a heap of companies that are
still trying to rush through that window prior to year-end,”
said Neal. “Not all will make it.”  Of the 30 Australian IPOs so far this year, 14 are
currently trading above their issue price, according to
Bloomberg-compiled data. Initial offers have returned 24 percent
on a weighted average basis, the data show. That performance
should encourage investors to support new listings, said Neal.  Online foreign exchange broker  OzForex Group Ltd. (OFX) , part
owned by Carlyle Group LP and  Accel Partners , raised A$440
million when it sold shares earlier this month. That overtook
the A$338 million IPO of fertility services provider Virtus
Health Ltd. four months earlier as the largest share sale in
Australia this year.  Larger deals have performed better than the average, with
OzForex up 35 percent since listing, and Virtus Health shares
surging 55 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  