-- AvalonBay Falls on Drop in Washington-Area Rental Revenue
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-10-24T21:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/avalonbay-falls-on-drop-in-washington-area-rental-revenue.html
AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB)  fell the
most since January after the apartment landlord lowered its
full-year earnings forecast and reported a decrease in rental
revenue from its Washington-area properties.  Rental revenue from more than 4,400 apartments in the
metropolitan area fell 0.1 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, the only market with a decline, the Arlington,
Virgina-based real estate investment trust said in a statement
yesterday after U.S. markets closed.  The  Washington  area, which is facing a glut of newly built
units amid slowing job growth, accounts for about 16 percent of
AvalonBay’s net operating income. About 30,211 apartments are
under construction in the region, more than half of which will
open this year, according to Delta Associates.  “This is really not surprising,” Alexander Goldfarb, a
REIT analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners, said of
AvalonBay’s results in an interview today. “But obviously, the
first time you see a market go negative, everyone’s like ‘Ooh,
call up the paramedics, get CPR.”  A bigger surprise is the company’s increased turnover
across all of its communities, Goldfarb said. AvalonBay, the
biggest publicly traded U.S. apartment owner after  Equity
Residential (EQR) , reported a turnover rate of 70 percent for the
quarter, compared with 65 percent a year earlier.  The shares fell 4.3 percent to $128.50. They have dropped
5.2 percent this year, compared with a 3.2 percent decrease in
the Bloomberg REIT Apartment Index of 18 multifamily landlords.  Rent Forecast  Washington is poised to be one of the only major U.S.
cities with a decline in apartment rents this year after a surge
in construction outpaced job growth, leaving the nation’s
capital with a glut of properties.  Rents in the metropolitan area, including the suburbs of
Maryland and  Virginia , will fall as much as 2 percent on
average, making it the only market in the top 20 U.S. cities
other than  Detroit  to have a decline, Delta Associates said in
April. Rents will drop further in 2014, data from the
Alexandria, Virginia-based property-research firm show.  AvalonBay lowered its outlook for 2013, saying funds from
operations, a measure of  cash flow  used by REITs, probably will
be $5.09 to $5.15 a share. The company in July forecast FFO for
the year of $5.05 to $5.25 a share.  Federal government spending cuts limited employment,
creating “headwinds” for Washington-area apartment demand in
the first half of the year, Sean Breslin, AvalonBay’s executive
vice president of investment and asset management, said on a
conference call with analysts today.  “So the threat of a government shutdown and debt-ceiling
debate didn’t help our third-quarter results,” he said. “We
expect the D.C. market to continue to be challenged for the next
few quarters, given the uncertainty in the mind of both direct
and indirect government workers and the continued impact of new
supply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  