-- Passenger Devices Rule Delayed by Shutdown Due Soon: FAA
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-10-24T20:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/aviation-faces-uncertain-future-in-u-s-budget-woes.html
A rule expanding airline passengers’
ability to use electronic devices on flights, delayed by the
partial government shutdown, will be unveiled “very quickly,”
the U.S. chief aviation regulator said.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  is still
recovering from the 16-day funding dispute and is focused on
safety priorities before turning its attention to an advisory
panel’s suggestions for use of iPods, Kindles and other devices
on aircraft, Administrator Michael Huerta said today.  Huerta, in his first public comments since the agency was
partially shuttered, said aviation leaders need to identify the
government’s financial priorities -- and what should be cut --
to avoid future funding crises that are threatening the U.S.
industry’s leadership position worldwide.  “Short-term, stop-gap funding is no way to run a
government or an aviation system,” Huerta said in a speech at
the Aero Club of Washington and attended by airline officials,
union groups and others in the industry.  The FAA faces hundreds of millions of dollars in additional
cuts next year if no action is taken by Congress, he said.  The FAA furloughed one-third of its 46,000 employees on
Oct. 1 after an impasse in Congress and the White House over the
2010 Affordable Care Act and the debt ceiling forced a partial
government shutdown.  Impacts Continue  The standoff ended when divided Republicans agreed to lift
the debt ceiling and resume  government spending  one day before
U.S. borrowing authority was scheduled to lapse.  Hundreds of plane sales by companies including Airbus SAS
and individuals stalled during the shutdown because the FAA’s
aircraft-registration office was closed.  Furloughing FAA workers also delayed release of proposed
new standards for when passengers may text and e-mail during
airline flights.  The agency’s advisory panel recommended allowing use of e-books, sending e-mail and browsing websites throughout flights,
including during landing and takeoff, a person familiar with the
report said.  Mobile-phone calls and texting would remain forbidden. They
are  banned  separately by the  U.S. Federal Communications
Commission . Use of nearly all electronic devices are currently
prohibited below 10,000 feet.  “We do have the report,” Huerta told reporters after his
speech in  Washington . “Naturally with the shutdown we lost a
lot of momentum on that.”  Industry Talks  In his speech, Huerta said he was aware of talks by
aviation industry and labor leaders on whether divisions of the
agency should be reorganized or put under semi-private control.  “One thing I think is vitally important is for the
aviation industry to start having serious conversations about
the structure of our aviation system, as well as the way to fund
it,” he said.  The agency, which has a $5 billion backlog in deferred
maintenance for equipment in the air-traffic system, must
prioritize in order to continue providing services, he  said .  All 3,000 of the agency’s aviation-safety inspectors
weren’t working when parts of the government closed Oct. 1. The
FAA brought about 800 airline and aircraft manufacturer
inspectors back to work starting Oct. 7.  Air-traffic controllers and employees who maintained
navigation equipment and some critical computer systems remained
on the job.  Cutting Costs  The shutdown was just the latest  budget crisis  at FAA. The
aviation agency had to trim $637 million from its $16 billion
budget by Sept. 30 under across-the-board cuts known as
sequestration. Employees, including the agency’s 15,000
controllers, were initially forced to take one unpaid day off
every two weeks, leaving about 10 percent fewer workers on duty.  The agency proposed closing 149 towers operated by private
companies at airports with lower flight volumes.  After flights were delayed and airports said their
operations would be imperiled, Congress voted in April to move
$253 million from airport construction grant money to end
furloughs and fund the towers.  In 2011, the FAA partially shut down for two weeks after
Congress couldn’t agree on legislation authorizing agency
operations. About 4,000 employees were furloughed and 70,000
workers in construction and related jobs were idled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  