-- Lawmaker Squabbles Cost U.S. 1.75 Million Jobs: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-10-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/lawmaker-squabbles-cost-u-s-1-75-million-jobs-cutting-research.html
The mounting polarization of U.S.
politics imperils the  U.S. economy , robbing it of jobs and
investment.  So warns economist Marina Azzimonti of the  Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia, who created an  index  to measure the tone
of political debate and its impact on hiring, investment and
general economic growth.  “Polarization significantly discourages investment, output
and employment,” she said in the study released last week by
the regional Fed bank. “Moreover, these declines are
persistent, which may help explain the slow recovery since the
2007 recession ended.”  Azzimonti’s political polarization index is based on a
search of news stories to measure the coverage of lawmaker
disagreement from January 1981 to April 2013. It climbed after
 recession  ended in 2009 and peaked toward late 2012. At the
time, politicians were trying to resolve the so-called fiscal
cliff, which would have inflicted tax increases and spending
cuts on the economy.  The index rose from about 75 in 1981 to about 200 at the
end of last year. The project didn’t include the recent
government shutdown or fight over raising the debt ceiling.  Using the period 2007 to 2012, over which the index jumped
64 points, the Azzimonti model found employment decreases as a
result of a surge, with a peak loss of 1.75 million jobs after
six quarters. Investment decreases as much as 8.6 percent after
five quarters, and output shrinks 2 percent.  Political clashes increase the volatility of fiscal policy,
spurring uncertainty in economic policies. That in turn cools
activity, she wrote.  The index also spikes around election dates, be they for
the president or Congress. It tends to be lower around military
conflicts or national security threats, such as the Sept. 11
attacks.  “This suggests that American politics are very polarized
regarding economic policy or private-sector regulation reforms,
but less divided when it comes to national defense issues,”
said Azzimonti.  * * *  There isn’t yet much evidence that the U.S. is enjoying a
manufacturing renaissance, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Speculation that the economy may be poised to industrialize
again has been fanned by cheaper energy and technological
advancements at home as well as rising labor costs in  Asia  and a
weaker dollar.  “While these advantages are real, it is far from clear
whether they are strong enough to reverse the gradual longer-term decline in manufacturing as a share of U.S. activity and
the longer-term decline of U.S. share in world trade,” Robert E. Mellman, a New York-based economist for the bank, said in an
Oct. 18 report.  Manufacturing output rose just 1.6 percent at an annual
rate in the first quarter compared with an average of 3.1
percent in the two decades through 2007. Production is also
still 5 percent below its pre-recession peak.  Employment in the sector accounts for just less than 9
percent of all jobs, down from 17 percent in 1987, the report
said. In the latest three months, factory employment was 13.1
percent below where it was at the end of 2007, compared with
total employment, which was just 1.5 percent lower.  While the U.S. is no longer losing share of merchandise
exports in world markets, it’s not gaining either, said Mellman.
If the U.S. were becoming more competitive, domestic producer
prices would grow more slowly than prices of Chinese imports, he
said. That hasn’t been the case,  No building boom has occurred for new plants outside of the
petrochemical industry, JPMorgan said. Indeed, real investment
in structures for the manufacturing industry fell at a double-digit pace through the first half of this year.  * * *  The Europe-wide austerity push has exacerbated the
recession in economies requiring bailouts, according to a study
by an economist at the European Commission.  Published this week, Jan in ’t Veld’s analysis shows that
the multiplier effect of budget consolidations ranged between
0.5 and 1 depending on each country’s degree of economic
openness. A multiplier shows the magnitude of how an economy
responds when government budgets shift.  Ripple effects as the economic effects of other countries’
austerity programs spread to neighbors can then add between 1.5
percentage points and 2.5 percentage points to the negative
growth effects, he said.  “The finding of larger negative output effects and
significant negative spillovers does of course not imply that
fiscal consolidations should have been avoided,” said in ’t
Veld. “A slower pace of consolidation could have raised general
fears of a sovereign default.”  Countries with current account surpluses might consider
easing their fiscal adjustments to support growth elsewhere, he
said.  * * *  The greater a U.S. company depends on loans from banks, the
more its stock price reacts to monetary policy shifts.  That’s the finding of a paper published this week by the
 Centre for Economic Policy Research  in London, based on 4,408
companies from 2003 to 2008.  A two-standard-deviation increase in a company’s reliance
on a bank, as measured by the ratio of bank debt to total
assets, makes its stock 25 percent more responsive to changes in
 interest rates . That means a stock can fall about 4 percent on
average in response to a 1 percentage point surprise increase in
the Federal Reserve’s benchmark rate, authors Filippo Ippolito,
Ali Ozdagli and Ander Perez wrote.  * * *  Switzerland ’s experience demonstrates why central banks in
rich nations have backed away from intervening in currencies,
according to the Federal Reserve Bank of  Cleveland .  The  Swiss National Bank  resumed interventions in 2009 in a
bid to cap the value of the franc amid deflation concerns. The
resulting period has met “with both failures and successes,”
Owen F. Humpage, a senior economic adviser at the district Fed
bank, specializing in international economics,  wrote  in the Oct.
18 report.  The upshot for the SNB is that foreign-exchange
interventions can’t systematically influence currencies
independent of a country’s monetary policy. In addition,
focusing interest rate policy on an exchange rate can
potentially conflict with a price stability goal, he said. It
also left the bank open to currency losses.  “To affect exchange rates central banks must change their
monetary policy,” Humpage said. “Any monetary authority
contemplating intervention should consider the recent Swiss
experience.”  * * *  Vietnam , Poland and  Hungary  have the best growth potential
among  emerging markets  in the medium term, according to a new
metric devised by Nomura Holdings Inc.  The indicator accounting for purchasing manager indexes,
credit, fiscal flexibility and industrial production in 15
countries ranked  South Africa ,  Egypt  and  South Korea  the least
favorable, Nomura’s team of foreign exchange strategists said in
an Oct. 18 report.  On the purchasing managers’ measure, Hungary and Vietnam
have the best outlook, while Singapore and  Mexico  stand in the
best shape when credit growth is the focus. Vietnam and
 Indonesia  enjoy good prospects in industrial production and
Poland and Hungary have the most fiscal flexibility.  The study follows one the Nomura strategists published last
month based on which economies had external weaknesses. It found
Ukraine, Turkey and  Chile  were the most vulnerable and  Russia ,
 China  and  Malaysia  the least.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  