-- Axa Nine-Month Sales Rose 2% on Life-and-Savings Premiums
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-10-24T17:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/axa-nine-month-sales-rose-2-on-life-and-savings-premiums.html
Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s second-largest
insurer, said nine-month revenue rose about 2 percent, helped by
life-and-savings premiums and asset-management fees.  Revenue in the period through September increased to 69.5
billion euros ($96 billion) from 68.4 billion euros a year
earlier, the Paris-based insurer said in a statement today.
Axa’s solvency ratio reached 214 percent at the end of September
when including proceeds from the sale of certain Mony Life
Insurance Co.’s assets to  Protective Life Corp. (PL)   “Their capacity to deliver is confirmed,” Benoit Valleaux, an analyst at Natixis SA in Paris who recommends
buying Axa shares, said before the release. “They are executing
on their strategic plan.”  Axa is expanding in  Asia  and has shifted billions of euros
of capital to faster-growing markets since 2010, while divesting
assets in the U.S.,  Canada  and the U.K. Adjusted return on
equity, a measure of profitability, reached 16.5 percent in the
first half, above the company’s target of 13 percent to 15
percent for 2015, Axa said in August.  Nine-month asset-management revenue rose 6 percent to 2.6
billion euros, helped by higher management fees and increased
real estate transactions at its Paris-based Axa IM unit, the
insurer said.  At the life-and-savings division, Axa’s largest, revenue
rose by about 1 percent to 41.4 billion euros, helped by a
“strong offer positioning” in protection and health products
in  Switzerland  and its Chinese life-insurance partnership with
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398) , the French insurer
said.  “We keep accelerating in high-growth countries,” Deputy
Chief Executive Officer Denis Duverne said on a call with
journalists. The revenue data “reflect our determination to
continue the strategic initiatives of our Ambition 2015 plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  