-- Baby Food Maker Mead Johnson Opens China Bribery Probe
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-24T20:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/baby-food-maker-mead-johnson-opens-internal-china-bribery-probe.html
Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , the U.S.
infant food maker that gets almost a  third of sales from China ,
is investigating whether bribes may have been paid by its
Chinese unit.  The internal probe is looking at whether the unit paid
bribes in violation of Chinese and U.S. law to promote the sale
of its products, the Glenview, Illinois-based company said
yesterday in a statement. The voluntary investigation was
started at the request of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and is being handled by an outside  law firm .  “We have committed to doing a thorough job of supplying
them with whatever they want,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Kasper Jakobsen said on a conference call. “We don’t have a
timeline here.”  U.S. and European drugmakers and health-care companies have
been under investigation by Chinese authorities since at least
June, when London-based pharmaceuticals company  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK)  announced a probe. Mead Johnson, which makes the Enfamil
formula products, and Paris-based Danone were among six dairy
companies that were fined 670 million yuan ($109 million) in
August for fixing prices in  China .  Mead Johnson provided few other details of the probe.  No Prediction  “At this time, the company is unable to predict the scope,
timing or outcome of this ongoing matter or any regulatory or
legal actions that may be commenced related to this matter,”
Mead Johnson said in the statement.  Christopher Perille, a Mead Johnson spokesman, didn’t
return telephone calls and an e-mail requesting more details on
the probe.  Mead Johnson fell 2.5 percent to $80.32 at the close in  New
York  yesterday. The stock has  gained 16 percent  in the past 12
months.  The company also  reported third-quarter earnings , excluding
certain items, of 91 cents a share, beating the average of 80
cents of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Mead
Johnson also raised its full-year profit  forecast  to $3.30 to
$3.37 a share from $3.22 to $3.30.  Glaxo faces allegations it traded in sexual favors and had
spurious travel and meeting expenses amounting to 3 billion
 yuan . Eli Lilly & Co. said in August it was investigating
allegations that its employees paid bribes and kickbacks to
Chinese doctors. Paris-based Sanofi faces an investigation over
similar allegations.  Danone also faces a probe after Chinese government
authorities this month accused the company of paying bribes to
doctors to boost business for its infant formula sales there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  