-- Barclays Liable in $300 Million Black Diamond Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-10-25T19:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/barclays-liable-in-300-million-black-diamond-capital-suit-1-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  was found liable for
breach of contract in a lawsuit filed by a unit of hedge fund
Black Diamond Capital Management LLC seeking more than
$300 million in collateral from a derivative agreement.  BDC Finance LLC, one of Greenwich, Connecticut-based  Black
Diamond (BDE) ’s funds, sued Barclays in New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan in October 2008, saying that the London-based bank
defaulted on a total return swap when it failed to give back
more than $40 million of collateral demanded by BDC.  Justice Eileen Bransten in August 2012 partially granted a
motion by Barclays for a pretrial ruling dismissing BDC
Finance’s claim of breach of contract. An appeals court in
 Manhattan  yesterday reversed Bransten’s ruling and granted BDC’s
motion for a pretrial ruling finding Barclays liable for a
breach.  “The evidence in the record undeniably shows that Barclays
failed to pay the undisputed amount by the deadline, and
establishes as a matter of law that Barclays did not comply”
with the agreement’s dispute-resolution procedures, Judge Peter Tom wrote for the majority, which also affirmed Bransten’s
dismissal of Barclays’s breach-of-contract counterclaims.  Barclays didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
ruling.  The two parties entered into the agreement in May 2005, and
each side had the right to demand collateral based on changes in
the value of the corporate debt instruments underlying the
transaction, according to yesterday’s ruling.  Pending Resolution  BDC said Barclays failed to transfer $40 million in
collateral it demanded and instead gave the fund more than
$5 million pending resolution of the dispute, according to
yesterday’s ruling. BDC then declared Barclays in default and
demanded the $297 million in collateral it was holding.  Bransten said in August 2012 that BDC failed to follow
dispute-resolution procedures laid out in the agreement. She
partially granted Barclays’s motion for a pretrial ruling
dismissing the part of the breach-of-contract claim alleging
that Barclays was required to transfer the $40 million before
disputing the amount.  “The court interprets the agreement as providing that, in
the event of a dispute, the parties need only pay the undisputed
amount of a collateral call prior to the resolution of the
dispute,” Bransten said.  Two judges on the five-judge appellate panel, Richard Andrias and Judith Gische, agreed with Bransten, saying BDC
failed to follow dispute-resolution procedures as described in
the agreement.  ‘Two Days’  “Even if the ‘potential event of default’ is viewed as
Barclays’s failure to pay the return amount or notify BDC that
it disputed the collateral and pay the undisputed amount, the
notice gave Barclays two days to cure this failure and did not
state that this could only be accomplished by paying the full
return amount,” the dissenters wrote. “Even if Barclays was in
default, contrary to the majority’s view, Barclays could cure by
either paying the return amount or the undisputed amount.”  The case is BDC Finance LLC v. Barclays Bank Plc,
650375/2008,  New York  State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  