-- BBVA Profit Seen Jumping on Lower Spanish Real Estate Charges
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-10-24T08:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/bbva-profit-seen-jumping-on-lower-spanish-real-estate-charges.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
 Spain ’s second-biggest bank by assets, will probably say third-quarter profit jumped on lower provisioning for losses on real
estate.  Net income  will rise  to 613.3 million euros ($845 million)
from 146 million euros in the year-earlier period, according to
the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of four analysts. The
Bilbao, Spain-based lender will publish earnings tomorrow before
the market opens in Madrid.  BBVA Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez  is selling assets to shore
up  capital  at the lender and rebuilding earnings after the
Spanish government forced banks last year to speed up the
recognition of losses on their holdings of real estate. The
company said last week it would take a 2.3 billion-euro charge
against 2013 earnings for reducing its stake in China Citic Bank
Corp. as it maneuvers to bolster capital.  “BBVA has a lot of exposure to Spain and it still seems
premature to be calling any sort of turning point for the
Spanish economy,” said  Neil Smith , an  analyst  at Bankhaus Lampe
KG in Bielefeld, Germany, who rates the lender a sell.  The shares have climbed 29 percent this year. That compares
with a 6.9 percent gain this year for Banco Santander SA,
Spain’s biggest bank, which today said third-quarter earnings
rose more than eightfold on lower costs for absorbing losses on
real estate.  Bad Loans  BBVA’s net loan loss provisions probably fell to 1.33
billion euros from 2.04 billion euros, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
analysts  Antonio Ramirez  and Marta Sanchez estimated in an Oct.
22 report.  The lender may say earnings from its Spanish banking
business fell to 117 million euros from 250 million euros, KBW
said. Consolidated net interest income, a measure of revenue
from loans minus the cost of deposits, may drop 8 percent to
3.57 billion euros, hurt in part by the removal of “floors,”
or minimum  interest rates , on Spanish mortgages, KBW said.  Earnings from Mexico, the country that contributes most to
BBVA’s profit, may rise 8 percent to 466 million euros,
according to estimates from Banco BPI SA. Profit from  South
America  may decline 16 percent from a year ago to 266 million
euros, KBW said.  BBVA’s Chief Operating Officer Angel Cano said in July that
the bank would keep paying two dividends in cash and two mostly
in shares each year for the time-being and will review the
practice toward the end of 2013. The Bank of Spain told lenders
in June that distributions this year should be limited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  