-- Biggest Supply Wave Since July Means Treasuries Win: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-10-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/biggest-supply-wave-since-july-means-treasuries-win-muni-credit.html
The U.S. debt-ceiling deal has
unleashed the biggest wave of municipal borrowing since July,
driving local bonds to the cheapest in almost two months versus
Treasuries and luring buyers such as Deutsche Bank AG’s private-wealth unit.  The borrowing spike has prevented munis from keeping pace
with a Treasuries rally after the 16-day federal shutdown that
ended Oct. 17. The yield on 10-year munis reached about 111
percent of that on federal securities this week, the most since
Aug. 29, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That signals a buy to
investors betting the supply wave won’t last.  “Given the elevated muni-Treasury yield ratios and a large
increase in supply, this presents itself as an opportunity for
the municipal investor,” said Gary Pollack, who oversees $6
billion of munis as head of fixed income for the Deutsche Bank
unit in New York. He said his company has been buying bonds from
issuers in the primary market this week.  Led by  California , localities are offering $8.1 billion of
debt this week, the most since mid-July, Bloomberg data show.
The $3.7 trillion municipal market has earned about 0.1 percent
this month, compared with 0.6 percent for Treasuries, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  2013 Trails  Even California’s issuance isn’t enough to push annual
volume above last year. Bank of America Merrill Lynch and RBC
Capital Markets forecast the second-lowest annual volume since
2008, and issuance is down almost 17 percent from 2012.  Predictions that supply will ebb may bolster confidence in
munis’ performance this quarter. Local debt has gained in the
year’s final three months in seven of the past 10 years,
according to Bank of America data.  Phil Fischer, head of muni research at Bank of America, and
Chris Mauro, head of muni strategy at RBC, project 2013 issuance
at $325 billion to $330 billion. That would be the second-smallest total in the past five years and down from $352 billion
in 2012.  Sales slowed this year as refinancing proved less
economical after interest rates rose from generational lows.
Benchmark 10-year  yields  are about 2.75 percent, compared with
as little as 1.52 percent in December, Bloomberg data show.  Shortage Offset  For investors, the debt shortage has helped offset the
biggest annual losses in munis since 2008. Individuals have
withdrawn $55 billion from mutual funds focused on local debt in
the past 21 weeks, the most ever, Lipper US Fund Flows data
show.  City and state debt has weakened more than other fixed-income assets. Munis lost 3.2 percent this year through Oct. 22,
compared with declines of 1.9 percent for Treasuries and 1
percent for company securities, Bank of America data show.  “There is no doubt that issuance was adversely impacted by
rising interest rates and the dismal market condition since late
May,” Fischer, who’s based in New York, wrote in an Oct. 4
report. He predicted about $81 billion of bond sales this
quarter, which would be the smallest for the period since 2008,
Bloomberg  data  show.  The federal shutdown that began Oct. 1 temporarily dropped
municipal borrowing to the least in two years. Localities had to
consider whether lawmakers would fail to strike a deal in time
to prevent the U.S. from defaulting, a situation the Treasury
Department said may have had catastrophic consequences.  Sales Logjam  Congress agreed on a solution on Oct. 16, before the U.S.
missed any payments. Ten-year Treasury  yields  have declined 0.23
percentage point since Oct. 15, compared with a  0.03 percentage
point  drop in interest rates on benchmark munis.  “The Treasury market has improved dramatically and we
haven’t kept up,” RBC’s Mauro, who’s based in New York, said in
an interview. “That’s solely a function of what’s happening on
the supply side of our market.”  Since the resolution, issuers have returned to the market
to borrow, led by California’s $2.3 billion sale this week.  State Treasurer Bill Lockyer said in an Oct. 22 interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Bottom Line” with Mark Crumpton
that the state is “finding that the demand is holding up” for
its general obligations.  Options Diminish  Investors will have fewer options next week, when supply is
poised to drop to $3.2 billion, the least for a non-holiday
period since August 2012.  Fischer said the debt-ceiling solution and the ensuing
gains in Treasuries should lead to a “resumption of the rally”
in munis that started in September, before the U.S. shutdown.  “We don’t have overwhelming investor demand, so supply
takes a little longer to be absorbed,” Fischer said. “If you
get a rally in Treasuries, munis are likely to follow, but
lag.”  Following is a pending sale:  Arkansas  plans to sell $200 million of general obligations
on Oct. 29 via competitive sale. Proceeds will finance work on
interstate highways. Arkansas last month issued about $469
million to finance highway construction, the state’s biggest
municipal offering since at least 1990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  