-- Billionaire Said Close to Restarting Sesa Mines: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-10-25T10:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/billionaire-said-close-to-restarting-sesa-mines-corporate-india.html
Sesa Sterlite Ltd., controlled by
billionaire  Anil Agarwal , is close to restarting some of its
 iron ore  mines in  India  as early as next month after a two-year
shutdown shrank its revenue to the least since 2008.  Sesa has met requirements for a permit to extract the raw
material in Karnataka state, which accounted for about a fifth
its output, two officials familiar with the matter said, asking
not to be identified before an announcement. The nation’s top
court, which banned excavation in the southern state and
neighboring Goa amid environmental degradation, said in April
Sesa needs the consent of federal and state governments to
commence operations.  A resumption of mining may help ease the iron ore shortage
faced by local steelmakers including  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , the
nation’s third-biggest producer of the alloy. The raw material
accounted for 98 percent of earnings at Sesa Goa Ltd., which in
August merged with another  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  unit Sterlite
Industries (India) Ltd. to form Sesa Sterlite. Dividends from
investments have helped Sesa report quarterly profits.  “They aren’t firing on all cylinders right now, especially
in their iron ore business,”  Alan Greene , a Singapore-based
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a telephone
interview. “They are relying too much on dividends to prop up
their balance sheet. The full benefit of the merger will be seen
once the iron ore business adds to its earnings.”  Share Performance  Shares of Sesa Sterlite, which is scheduled to report
second-quarter results on Oct. 31., rose 1.8 percent to 202.35
rupees, its highest level since Jan. 7, at the close in Mumbai.
The  benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex fell 0.2 percent. The stock has
risen 3.5 percent this year, compared with a 19 percent decline
in the S&P BSE Metal Index. Sesa Sterlite completed the merger
in August after securing court approvals and its  shares (SSLT)  have
rallied 55 percent since then.  Agarwal, who has a net worth of $3.3 billion, bought 58.76
percent of  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) , an energy explorer, as attempts to
develop his copper, aluminum and iron ore business in the South
Asian country were undermined by environmental regulations and
remote tribes inhabiting bauxite-rich regions. Sesa, which owns
20.09 percent of Cairn India, earned 6.25 billion rupees ($101.6
million) from its share in the unit, helping it post a profit in
the quarter to June 30.  The court has allowed Sesa, which was India’s No. 1
exporter of the material prior to the court-ordered ban, to mine
as much as 2.29 million metric tons a year in Karnataka, about
38 percent of its original capacity. The potential revenue from
the mines in the state is estimated at about $305 million,
according to calculations based on data compiled by Bloomberg
and spot prices at Tianjin port in  China .  Goa Ban  A ban on outbound shipments of iron ore still remains in
force in Goa, the nation’s biggest exporter of the commodity.
Karnataka is the country’s third biggest.  Sanjeev Verma, a spokesman at Sesa Sterlite declined to
comment on when the company could restart mining. The Vedanta
unit can reach its target in four to five months, Executive
Director Prasun Kumar Mukherjee said on a July earnings call.  The company won the environment ministry’s approval in
August and is working with the Karnataka government agency to
get final permits, one of the people said. Once allowed, it will
add to 17 operational mines in the province with capacity of 15
million tons annually, which falls short of the 30 million tons
needed locally, one person said.  Weaker Currency  Sesa’s produce will be sold through an online auction
process that’s being monitored by a court-appointed panel, the
people said. A 12 percent decline in the local currency against
the dollar in the fiscal year that started April 1 discouraged
imports of the steelmaking ingredient, worsening the shortage.  A weak rupee and a supply shortage of iron ore in Karnataka
may push up domestic prices in the near term, Rakesh Arora and
Sumangal Nevatia, Mumbai-based analysts at  Macquarie Capital , a
unit of  Australia ’s largest investment bank, wrote in an Oct. 11
report.  JSW Steel, which operates its biggest unit in the state,
sources the raw material in auctions and doesn’t own a mine,
prompting it to consider buying the local assets of Stemcor
Holdings Ltd., two people with direct knowledge of the matter
said on July 24.  ‘Key Catalyst’  Goa banned mining in September last year after a
government-appointed panel said the province lost 349.4 billion
rupees because of illegal extraction, forcing all companies
including Sesa to suspend operations. The following month, the
 Supreme Court  banned mining and sales of the ore in the state.  The resumption in Goa can be a “key catalyst” that could
substantially improve earnings and drive the re-rating of Sesa
Sterlite’s stock over the next one year or so, according to the
Macquarie note.  Setbacks in India have prompted the company to seek mines
overseas. Sesa is in the process of investing as much as $2.4
billion to develop assets in Liberia in its first overseas
expansion.  The company will use the money over the next four years to
build 30 million tons of mining capacity in three properties in
the west African nation. The first part of the project is
scheduled to start by March 2014 with 4 million tons capacity.  “Sesa’s iron ore mining business is under ban currently
but at $20 a ton free-on-board costs, it is highly
competitive,” according to the Macquarie note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  