-- Bocom’s Hong Ends Bullish China Stock View After Calling Rally
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-24T06:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/bocom-s-hong-ends-bullish-china-stock-view-after-calling-rally.html
Hao Hong, the Bocom International
Holdings Co. strategist who predicted the second-half rally in
Chinese stocks, now advises paring holdings on concern economic
data will trail estimates as the central bank tightens policy.  “It is time to lock in the gains we have earned since late
June,” Hong wrote in an e-mailed note. “Growth expectations
have been revised up since the market capitulation in late June,
and are now running ahead of themselves.”  Hong advised buying Chinese shares on June 26, saying
trading patterns signaled a rebound. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  rallied as much as 16 percent from a four-year low on June
27, while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  gained as much
as 21 percent.  China ’s economic growth accelerated last quarter
as Premier  Li Keqiang  spurred factory output and investment to
meet the government’s expansion goal for 2013.  The People’s Bank of China will probably start “fine-tuning” its monetary policy to curb surging property prices,
Hong wrote. China’s benchmark money-market rate jumped the most
since July today after the PBOC refrained from  conducting
reverse repos for a third straight auction. The central bank
drained a net 58 billion  yuan  ($9.5 billion) from the financial
system this week as reverse repos matured, said Chen Long, an
analyst at Bank of Dongguan.  Home prices in China’s four major cities rose last month by
the most since January 2011, heightening concerns a bubble is
forming. New  home prices  gained 20 percent in the southern
business hubs of Shenzhen and Guangzhou, 17 percent in  Shanghai 
and 16 percent in Beijing from a year earlier.  Reform Impact  The Shanghai Composite fell 0.5 percent to 2,171.92 at 1:57
p.m., heading for a one-month low. The Hang Seng China gauge
slid 1 percent to 10,356.67 in a third day of losses.  Stocks are unlikely to gain on any reforms announced at the
third plenum of the Communist Party’s central committee next
month, Hong wrote. “We all root for a reform, but a reform,
albeit beneficial to the economy, can be a temporary drag on the
market.”  Hong also advised avoiding small-cap stocks. The ChiNext
index of smaller companies listed in Shenzhen has tumbled 6.7
percent in the past three days, paring its rally this year to 83
percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  