-- BOE Must ‘Urgently’ Review U.K. Help to Buy Program, Labour Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-10-24T09:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/boe-must-urgently-review-u-k-help-to-buy-program-labour-says.html
The opposition  Labour Party  called
for the  Bank of England  to “urgently” review the U.K.
government’s Help to Buy program, which it says is fueling a
house-price boom.  The plan, which allows people to buy homes worth up to
600,000 pounds ($970,000) with a 5 percent deposit, risks making
home ownership even less affordable than it already is, Labour’s
Treasury spokesman  Ed Balls  wrote in an article for the
PoliticsHome website, published today.  Revenue from a property-transaction levy helped to narrow
the  budget deficit  in September, while recent reports show  house
prices  are back above their early-2008 peak. To address
criticism of risks posed by Help to Buy, Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne has tasked the central bank’s Financial
Policy Committee with reviewing the program annually starting
next September.  “By simply boosting demand with Help to Buy while failing
to take action to boost housing supply,  George Osborne  risks
making home ownership even  further out of reach  of the aspiring
first-time buyers the scheme should be helping,” Balls wrote.
“It is why I believe the Bank of England must now urgently
review the details of the Help to Buy scheme.”  U.K. house prices rose to an all-time high in August,
having climbed 18 percent since March 2009, according to the
Office for National Statistics. In London, values have surged 43
percent to an average 437,000 pounds -- almost double
the national average. Asking prices in the U.K. capital jumped
more than 10 percent this month, Rightmove Plc said Oct. 21.  The increase in tax income last month was the most for a
September since 2010, the statistics office said on Oct. 22.
Stamp duty on property purchases grew 254 million pounds
compared with a year earlier.  Action Needed  Help to Buy has drawn warnings from the  International
Monetary Fund , U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable and
lawmakers. The BOE says it remains vigilant, though Markets
Director  Paul Fisher  said this month he doesn’t see a bubble.  The first phase of Help to Buy, interest-free loans for
buyers of newly built homes, began in April. The second phase,
which extends government guarantees to all homes, was brought
forward to this month from January.  “What we urgently need now is action to secure a strong,
balanced and  sustainable recovery  and long-term reforms to earn
and grow our way to higher living standards -- catching up all
the lost ground and delivering for the many, not just a few at
the top,” Balls said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  