-- BofA Said to Cut 1,300 More Mortgage Unit Jobs Amid Slowdown
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-10-24T17:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/bofa-said-to-cut-1-300-more-mortgage-unit-jobs-amid-slowdown-2-.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-largest U.S. lender, is cutting about 1,300 more jobs in its
mortgage division as the firm adjusts to lower demand, said two
people with direct knowledge of the plans.  Affected  employees  were told yesterday about the cuts,
which mostly involve the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm’s
home-loan fulfillment workers, said the people, who asked for
anonymity because the changes are private. Those losing jobs
will receive pay through Dec. 22 and are eligible for severance
packages after that, said the people.  The latest round of reductions means Bank of America will
dismiss about 3,000 people involved in making home loans in the
fourth quarter. In August, the company had notified its staff of
about 2,100 eliminations by the end of this month, mostly in
areas processing new home loans. Mortgage lenders are paring
headcount as higher  interest rates  discourage the refinancings
they relied on to fuel profits.  “In line with the industry, we are realigning our cost
structure in response to lower customer demand for mortgage
refinancing,”  Dan Frahm , a Bank of America spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement. “We are working with employees to
identify opportunities both inside and outside the bank.”  Wells Fargo & Co ., the biggest U.S. mortgage lender, has
cut more than 5,700 positions since midyear, and No. 2-ranked
JPMorgan Chase & Co. has said it may dismiss 15,000. Both
reported third-quarter mortgage revenue declines of more than 40
percent, and Bank of America saw revenue in that division drop
by almost half to $1.58 billion.  Demand Drops  During an earnings conference call last week, Bank of
America executives warned that the job eliminations would
continue. Pending mortgages at the end of the third quarter
dropped 60 percent from the second quarter, indicating a steep
drop in demand, Chief Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  told
analysts on Oct. 16.  Bank of America’s full-time staff totaled 247,943 at the
end of September after more than 9,200 jobs were cut during the
quarter, or 3.6 percent of the workforce, the lender said last
week. Most of the cuts were in home loans, including the
division servicing  delinquent  and risky borrowers, as well as
those from branch closures.  The lender may also trim 3,000 positions in the legacy
assets servicing unit before year-end, said a person with
knowledge of the plans. Most will be outside contractors hired
to handle overdue borrowers, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  