-- Bonds Erase ’13 Losses as Three-Decade Rally Defies Bears
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-10-24T14:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/bonds-erase-13-losses-as-three-decade-rally-defies-bears.html
Bonds of issuers worldwide from
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  to the Spanish government have erased losses for
2013 as reports of the death of the three-decade  bull market  in
the securities prove premature with the  Federal Reserve 
maintaining its stimulus.  Returns this month of 0.88 percent on the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Index bring gains since year-end to 0.4 percent. Seven weeks ago, before central bank policy
makers surprised investors by delaying cuts in monthly purchases
of $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage bonds, the measure was
down 2.1 percent.  Borrowing costs for corporate, sovereign and securitized
debt have fallen to 1.92 percent, within 0.5 percentage point of
historic lows, five months after Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s  Bill Gross  said that the rally had probably ended.
BlackRock Inc. Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink said a
scaling back of quantitative easing could come as late as next
June.  “As long as the Fed is buying, it provides liquidity in
the  bond market  which spreads out into all asset classes,”
Anthony Valeri, a market strategist in  San Diego  with LPL
Financial Corp., which oversees $350 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “Everything really does tie back to the
U.S.”  Pakistan, Brazil  The gains are being led by corporate bonds, which have
returned 1.43 percent this month versus an 0.81 percent gain for
sovereign debt.  Demand for emerging-market securities is building with
 Pakistan  planning to raise as much as $1 billion in a bond sale,
its first offering abroad since 2007, according to a Finance
Ministry official, who asked not to be identified without
authorization to speak publicly.  Brazil  sold $1.5 billion of
dollar notes due 2025 to repurchase outstanding debt maturing
from 2017 to 2030. It also exchanged $1.7 billion of bonds with
holders of existing securities.  As evidence of the reviving appetite for risk, safeguards
on speculative-grade debt dropped to a record low last month as
measured by a Moody’s Investors Service index of covenant
quality. The index, which tracks bonds sold by North American
companies, rose to an unprecedented 4.05 in September from 3.85
in August. A reading of 5 is the weakest and 1 is the strongest.  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. increased, with the
Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, adding 0.4 basis point to a mid-price of 72.4
basis points as of 10:46 a.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  A gauge of the health of U.S. financial conditions fell for
a third day. The Bloomberg U.S. Financial Conditions Index,
which combines everything from money-market rates to yields on
government and corporate bonds to volatility in equities,
decreased 0.02 to 1.48. The gauge, which falls as conditions
deteriorate, reached 1.57 on Oct. 21, the highest in data dating
back to January 1994.  Verizon Bonds  Bonds of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 5.4 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, Trace data show. The New York-based telephone
carrier raised $49 billion on Sept. 11 in the largest corporate
 bond issue  ever.  The global bond market is poised for positive returns in
2013 for the first time since June following average gains of
5.4 percent in the five years ended last December, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Morgan Stanley’s $78.2 billion of bonds in the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Index have gained 3.94
percent this year. The New York-based bank reported third-quarter earnings on Oct. 18 that beat analysts’ estimates as
equity-trading revenue jumped the most among the biggest Wall
Street firms and profitability at its brokerage unit rose.  Recession Ended  The Spanish government’s $750.3 billion of securities on
the index have gained 10.4 percent this year.  Spain  emerged from
a two-year recession in the third quarter, with  gross domestic
product  expanding 0.1 percent from the three months ended in
June, when it shrank 0.1 percent, the Madrid-based Bank of Spain
estimated in its  monthly bulletin  yesterday.  Global returns have slowed from this year’s peak of 1.92
percent in May before Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  rattled
markets by saying the central bank could taper record stimulus
if the economy showed sustained improvement.  As yields rose from a record low 1.51 percent, Gross, the
manager of Pimco’s $250 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , wrote in a
Twitter post that a three-decade bull market in bonds probably
ended April 29.  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman and chief
executive officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., told Bloomberg Television in May that he felt “sorry”
for fixed-income investors with yields on corporate bonds so
low.  ‘What’s Needed’  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  refrained
from reducing the pace of its monthly securities purchases on
Sept. 18, with Bernanke saying the Fed must determine its
policies based on “what’s needed for the economy,” even if it
surprises markets.  The central bank will delay the first reduction in its bond
purchases until March after a government shutdown this month
slowed fourth-quarter growth, economists said. Policy makers
will pare the monthly pace of asset buying to $70 billion from
$85 billion at their March 18-19 meeting, according to the
median of 40 responses in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The 16-day budget impasse in  Washington  reduced growth by
0.3 percentage point this quarter, economists said in the
survey.  “It’s going to force the Federal Reserve to push off the
tapering at the very least to March, but maybe as late as
June,” Blackrock’s Fink said in an Oct. 16 interview on the
CNBC television network.  ‘Very Appealing’  Because the Fed may only have a “narrow window” to
curtail stimulus as the economy struggles to recover, policy
makers might consider whether to taper at all, Deutsche Bank AG
strategist  Jim Reid  in London wrote in a research note dated
yesterday.  The global economy is forecast to grow 2.85 percent next
year, after a 2.01 percent expansion in 2013, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. In the U.S., growth is
expected to reach 2.6 percent from 1.6 percent this year.  “We’re seeing a hard rally on the grounds the economy is
growing well enough and the Fed’s taper strategy has been pushed
further into the future,” Edward Marrinan, a macro credit
strategist at RBS Securities, said in a telephone interview from
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “All of that creates very appealing
conditions for risk-takers to do their thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  