-- Brazil Limits Rollover of Currency Swap Contracts as Real Surges
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-10-24T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/brazil-limits-rollover-of-currency-swap-contracts-as-real-surges.html
Brazil ’s central bank will roll over
no more than about one-third of currency swap contracts maturing
next month as it scales back efforts to sustain the real that
has posted the world’s biggest rally since August.  The central bank this afternoon will auction as many as
20,000 foreign exchange swaps worth a total $1 billion, the
central bank said in a statement yesterday e-mailed by its press
office. The bank this week already sold a combined 40,000 swaps
for a total $1.98 billion in the first two of three potential
auctions it can hold to roll over $8.9 billion in swaps that
mature Nov. 1.  Rolling over just one-third of the swaps would be the
equivalent of removing about $5.9 billion of U.S. dollars from
the market. The decision gives the bank the flexibility to keep
in place a separate $60 billion currency intervention program of
currency swaps and credit lines, according to  Jankiel Santos ,
chief economist at Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento.  “The Brazilian central bank is saying that the program is
there, and it is going to keep supplying all the contracts
promised,” he said by phone about the $60 billion intervention.
“They pretty much did what we were advocating, which is to keep
with the original program.”  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters last month
the central bank might curtail the intervention program.  The real has appreciated 11 percent since Aug. 22, when the
central bank announced the measure that consists of currency
swap auctions worth $500 million daily from Monday to Thursday
and credit line auctions of $1 billion on Fridays. That’s the
biggest increase among global currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The real weakened 0.8 percent to 2.1905 per dollar
yesterday, after reaching 2.1523 on Oct. 17, its strongest level
since June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  