-- Brazil Prosecutors Sue Over FIFA World Cup Stadium Costs
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-10-24T15:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/brazil-prosecutors-sue-over-fifa-world-cup-stadium-costs.html
Federal prosecutors in  Brazil  have
sought an injunction to block the use of public funds to pay for
temporary infrastructure at stadiums that will host games at
soccer’s World Cup next year.  The measure could save almost 1.2 billion reis ($546
million) in public money, according to the federal prosecutor’s
office, which is known by its Portuguese acronym MPF. It says
structures such as tents and cabling, along with communication
equipment for broadcasters, offer no long term benefit to
society and should be paid for by FIFA, soccer’s governing body,
and local organizers of the event.  “The public interest is not served by these costs that
will not leave any legacy for the Brazilian people,” the MPF
said in a statement.  World Cup  finances have come under greater scrutiny since
June, when Brazilians took to the street in record numbers to
protest issues including state spending on sports events.
Demonstrators say the money should go to providing better health
care, schools and transportation.  Brazil is spending about $3.5 billion to build or refurbish
12 stadiums for the month-long tournament and cases related to
it are piling up.  The country’s supreme court has yet to rule on actions
linked to the constitutionality of a special law created to meet
 FIFA ’s hosting requirements, along with a case against tax
exemptions given to the soccer ruling body and its commercial
partners. The six cities that hosted the Confederations Cup
tournament in June are also separately suing to get back 229.7
million reais spent on temporary structures for that event.  FIFA Contracts  FIFA, a not-for-profit organization that generates about $5
billion in sales from the World Cup, said “liability related to
complementary structures were clearly stated in contracts”
signed by stadium owners in 2007. The body said it and the local
organizing committee, or LOC, were responsible for hospitality
areas, commercial display areas, food concessions and official
products stores.  “In order to further reduce the investment made by the
stadium owners in the complementary structures, the LOC and FIFA
are reviewing all of the requirements, as they did in February
2013 for the FIFA Confederations Cup, when there was a
significant decrease in scope,” FIFA said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  