-- Buffett Says Gains in Housing Fall Short of Equilibrium
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-10-24T14:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/buffett-says-gains-in-housing-fall-short-of-equilibrium.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman and chief executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
said the U.S. housing market has made progress and still has a
way to go in recovering.  “It’s coming back,” Buffett, 83, said yesterday during an
event at the New York Public Library. “ Pricing (SPCS20Y%)  is better in
almost all markets by a reasonable percentage from a few years
ago. Housing starts are up somewhat. They still are not where I
would regard as an equilibrium point, where they match household
formation.”  A rebounding housing market has helped Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s subsidiaries that make carpet, bricks,
insulation and houses. Some of those businesses have expanded in
recent years through acquisitions as the industry recovers from
the worst slump in seven decades.  Buffett has been predicting a real estate revival for years
and positioning his company to benefit from it. He said in early
2010 that the turnaround would probably begin “within a year or
so.” While that call proved wrong, he has since reiterated that
the industry would rebound because of increasing population and
limited supply.  Berkshire also has invested in some of the nation’s largest
mortgage lenders, including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of
America Corp .  Borrowing costs at near-record lows have helped stoke
demand for homes and boost the  U.S. economy . U.S. mortgage rates
fell to a four-month low after a weaker-than-expected jobs
report drove investors to the safety of the  government bonds 
that guide borrowing costs. The average rate for a 30-year fixed
mortgage dropped to 4.13 percent the week ended today from 4.28
percent, Freddie Mac said in a statement.  Homes Sales  Sales (NHSLTOT)  of new U.S. homes increased 7.9 percent to a 421,000
annualized pace in August, figures from the Commerce Department
showed last month. In July, the rate was 390,000. The two-month
period was the weakest so far this year.  “The country has made significant progress, since the fall
of 2009,” Buffett said at the event. “This economy was hit in
2008 by something that never happened in my lifetime except for
when I was one or two years of age.”  Buffett appeared alongside his son and grandson, both named
Howard, to promote “40 Chances: Finding Hope in a Hungry
World.” The book describes lessons the billionaire’s son
learned from his years working to improve food security around
the world. It was written with Buffett’s grandson and includes a
foreword by the Berkshire chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  