-- California Zero-Emission Push Grows to 8 States, 3 Million Autos
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-10-24T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/california-zero-emission-push-grows-to-8-states-3-million-autos.html
California ’s push for automakers to
sell non-polluting cars and trucks is broadening as New York,
 Massachusetts ,  Oregon  and four other states join in an effort to
get 3.3 million “zero-emission” vehicles on the road.  The eight-state coalition, which also includes  Vermont ,
 Maryland ,  Connecticut  and Rhode Island, said in a statement
today it will push for the numerical target by 2025, more than
doubling California’s 1.5-million-car goal. While California
buyers of plug-in hybrids, battery and hydrogen fuel-cell autos
get incentives such as rebates, the seven other states didn’t
announce specific enticements.  “Leadership is really important, and we applaud the states
for taking this position,” said Mark Cooper, director of
research at the Washington-based Consumer Federation of America.
“It’s important to get this state-level support.”  California’s program to cut carbon emissions from cars and
trucks and stricter U.S.  fuel-economy  rules are prodding
automakers to boost efficiency with lighter vehicles featuring
smaller, more powerful engines and to offer more models powered
wholly or in part by electricity. The eight states combined
account for 23 percent of  U.S. vehicle sales , according to
California’s Air Resources Board.  U.S. sales of plug-in hybrids and battery-only autos this
year through September totaled about 67,000 vehicles, 29 percent
more than the 52,000 sold in all of 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News.  The eight states’ main goal is to “expand consumer
awareness and demand for zero-emission vehicles,” they said in
today’s joint statement. Governors of the eight states signed a
cooperative agreement to achieve the volume target to “help
build a robust national market for electric and hydrogen-powered
cars,” they said.  Steps the states will consider to help people choose
electric vehicles include standardizing building codes to
install car chargers, adding zero-emission vehicles to public
fleets, and possible financial incentives, the group said.  The announcement comes as California regulators today
consider modifications to the state’s zero-emission vehicle
mandate, in a hearing in  Sacramento .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  