-- Cameron Latest to See Oil-Gear Manufacturing Squeeze Hit Profits
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-10-24T17:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/cameron-latest-to-see-oil-gear-manufacturing-squeeze-hit-profits.html
Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , the
second-largest U.S. maker of oilfield gear, fell the most in
three years as equipment manufacturers struggle to contain costs
while seeking to meet rising demand.  Cameron fell 15 percent to $53.21 at 1:04 p.m. in  New York ,
its biggest intraday drop since April 29, 2010, after
forecasting fourth-quarter earnings and 2014 revenue below
analysts’ estimates.  The company hasn’t been able to expand its capacity fast
enough to meet rising demand and faced higher costs as third
parties helped complete customer orders, Jack Moore, chief
executive officer of Houston-based Cameron, told analysts and
investors today on a conference call.  FMC Technologies Inc. (FTI) 
yesterday fell the most since 2011 after lowering profit margin
 guidance  for its largest unit, which makes subsea equipment for
offshore oil drilling and production.  “Both companies are struggling to execute on their backlog
due to the explosive growth,” James West, an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in New York, said today in an e-mail.  The global oil industry is in the midst of the fastest rush
of orders for new deep-water rigs since the advent of such
drilling in the 1970s. Last year’s 52 ultra-deepwater
discoveries around the world, in about 7,500 feet (2,286 meters)
or more of water, made for a record year in the offshore
industry,  David Williams , CEO at Noble Corp., told analysts and
investors in a presentation earlier this year.  Company Guidance  Cameron expects fourth-quarter earnings-per-share to be in
the range of 95 cents to $1, lower than the $1.12  average  of 30
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue for next year
is expected to be about $11 billion, lower than the $11.5
billion average of 26 analysts’ estimates.  FMC’s operating profit margin for its subsea-technology
unit is expected to be 11 percent this year, Chief Financial
Officer Maryann Seaman said yesterday on a conference call.
That’s down from the 12 to 13 percent forecast in September.  “When plant utilization spikes to effectively 100 percent,
which has occurred given the backlogs collected by both, then
stress rises from manufacturing delays and cost overruns
pressuring margins,”  Scott Gruber , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, wrote in an e-mail message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  