-- Canadian Dollar Slumps Most in 4 Months on Central-Bank Stance
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-10-24T21:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/canadian-dollar-drops-to-two-week-low-on-central-bank-stance.html
The Canadian dollar had the biggest
two-day slump in four months after the central bank dropped
language about the need for future interest-rate rises that had
been in place for more than a year, as risks of a worsening
economy increased.  The currency reached a six-week low against its U.S.
counterpart after the  Bank of Canada  said yesterday  inflation 
will remain less than its 2 percent target until the end of
2015, two quarters longer than forecast in July, with the risks
of further weakness taking on “increasing importance.” Crude
oil, the nation’s largest export, touched the lowest level since
June.  “The shift in monetary policy is a driver,” said David Doyle, a strategist at Macquarie Capital Markets, by phone from
Toronto. “The U.S. outlook is looking much more positive than
 Canada ’s. That should lead to weakness in the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.4 percent to
C$1.0422 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It dropped as
much as 1.5 percent during the past two days and reaching the
weakest since Sept. 9. One loonie buys 95.95 U.S. cents.  Technical Level  A closing level weaker than C$1.0420 would pave the way for
additional declines in the currency to C$1.0516 as the central
bank’s statement led to a bearish breakout above trend-line
resistance at C$1.0368,  George Davis , chief technical analyst
for fixed-income and currency strategy in Toronto at Royal Bank
of Canada, said in a note to clients today.  The currency is 10.3 percent above its fair value, based on
Economist Group’s Big Mac Index. The gauge compares local prices
of McDonald’s Corp.’s signature hamburger in different countries
to judge a currency’s valuation.  “We’ve got a broadly weak dollar trend and the Canadian
dollar is actually underperforming under that trend,”  Chris Turner , head of currency strategy at ING Groep NV in  London ,
said in a phone interview. “The currency is overvalued and
they’re more concerned about exports.”  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  rose, with
yields falling one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
2.42 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
added six cents to C$92.14.  Oil Market  Futures of crude oil was little changed at $97.18 per
barrel in  New York , and touched the least since June 27. The
discount Canada’s benchmark crude oil-grade, Western Canada
Select, faced to West Texas Intermediate, its U.S. peer, was at
$33.50 per barrel, the most on a closing basis since Oct. 4.  The central bank’s economic growth forecast for this year
was cut to 1.6 percent from 1.8 percent. The outlook for 2014
was lowered to 2.3 percent from 2.7 percent and the 2015
projection trimmed to 2.6 percent from 2.7 percent.  “Those risks are balanced as we sit here,” Bank of Canada
Governor Stephen Poloz said yesterday, when asked if Canadian
interest rate rises or cuts were equally likely. “Policy is
dependent on the data flow and how it impacts our outlook for
inflation.”  The Canadian dollar has fallen 3.9 percent this year
against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar is
down 6.9 percent, and the U.S. dollar has added 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  