-- Caribbean Medical School Founder Guilty at Tax Trial
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2013-10-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/caribbean-medical-school-founder-guilty-at-florida-tax-trial-1-.html
A  Florida  psychiatrist who helped
her husband build two Caribbean medical schools was found guilty
by a federal jury of tax charges related to offshore accounts.  Patricia Hough, 67, was convicted yesterday in Fort Myers,
Florida, of conspiring to defraud the  Internal Revenue Service 
and filing false returns from 2005 to 2008. Prosecutors said
Hough didn’t tell the IRS about more than $35 million that she
and her husband, David Fredrick, made when the schools and real
estate were sold in 2007.  Prosecutors said Hough and Fredrick used funds in
undeclared offshore accounts to buy an airplane, two houses in
North Carolina, and a condominium in Sarasota, Florida. Fredrick
vanished after the indictment, leaving his wife to face trial
alone. U.S. District Judge John Steele, who oversaw a trial that
began Oct. 8, declared Fredrick a fugitive.  “Dr. Hough’s financial transactions were nothing more than
a shell game to hide her income,” Richard Weber, the IRS
criminal division chief, said in a statement. “Her earned
income was placed into foreign bank accounts to advance her  tax
fraud .”  Hough intends to appeal, said her attorney,  Nathan Hochman .  “We believe that the government’s case abjectly failed to
prove any of the elements of the crimes charged,” Hochman said
in a telephone interview.  The case is the largest, in dollar value, of four that
reached trial since the U.S. started a crackdown on offshore  tax
evasion  in 2008. Prosecutors have secured 61 guilty pleas,
including several involving larger accounts.  Courtroom Faint  After jurors convicted Hough and were dismissed, Steele set
sentencing for Feb. 10. As he set the date, Hough fainted,
according to Steele’s courtroom deputy, Brenda Alexander.
Paramedics were called, though Hough declined to go with them.
She faces as long as five years in prison.  Hough’s lawyers said she helped Fredrick build Saba
University School of Medicine, on the island of Saba in the
 Netherlands Antilles , and the Medical University of the
Americas, or MUA, on Nevis in the West Indies.  Dan Saunders, an attorney for Hough, said his client never
believed the money held at  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank, and
in other offshore banks belonged to her. Rather, he said, she
thought it belonged to the foundation that ran the schools.  “It wasn’t her money, and she never believed it was,”
Saunders said in his opening statement.  Money Hidden  Assistant U.S. Attorney Leigh Kessler opened the trial by
telling jurors that the couple used an array of accounts in the
names of businesses to hide their money from the IRS.  “You will see evidence that these nominee accounts served
no business purpose other than to hide the income of the
defendant and David Fredrick,” Kessler said.  Hough and her husband “used e-mails, telephone calls and
in-person meetings to instruct Swiss bankers and asset managers
to make investments and transfer funds from their undeclared
accounts at UBS,” the  Justice Department  said yesterday in a
statement after the verdict.  In his opening, Saunders said the accounts did serve a
business purpose: to protect the assets of their nonprofit
foundation from people attempting a hostile takeover. Hough and
Fredrick used the foundation to build the two medical schools.  “The $50 million or so the government wants you to believe
was stolen from the Saba Foundation, it isn’t sitting in her
account,” he said. “It’s not buried under a palm tree. It’s in
the Saba Foundation account.”  Account  Signer  Hough believed she was merely a signer on accounts for the
foundation, which ran the school, in case something happened to
her husband, Saunders said.  Kessler said Hough and her husband used the proceeds of the
school sales to buy a $1.6 million airplane, a $1.1 million
house in Asheville,  North Carolina , a $590,000 house in
Greenville, North Carolina, and an $800,000 condominium in
Sarasota, Florida. She said they also gave money to relatives.  In an interview after the verdict, Hochman said an IRS
revenue agent expert conceded that Hough over-reported, rather
than under-reported, her total income by more than $13,000.  “The expert further conceded that for 2006, Dr. Hough was
owed a refund,” Hochman said. “Nevertheless, the jury found
that Dr. Hough under-reported her income for that year -- a
truly startling result.”  Doctoral Degrees  Both Hough and Fredrick hold doctoral degrees, and Hough
also has a medical degree. Through the Saba Foundation, which
they first funded in 1988, the couple opened Saba University
School of Medicine in 1993. Fredrick served as president and a
foundation director. Hough was associate dean for clinical
medicine.  Equinox Capital Inc. , a private-equity firm based in
Greenwich,  Connecticut , bought the schools for $36 million in
2007.  Since 2009, Hough has worked for the Florida Department of
Health in Sarasota. She makes $60 an hour working part-time
seeing patients with behavioral health problems, according to
Courtney Gager, a health department spokeswoman.  The case is U.S. v. Fredrick, 13-cr-00072, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of Florida ( Fort Myers ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at 
 snesmith@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  