-- Carney Says BOE Revamp Offers Wider Access to Cheaper Funds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-25T07:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/carney-says-boe-revamp-to-offer-broader-access-to-cheaper-funds.html
Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney 
unveiled an overhaul of the central bank’s money-market
operations to widen access and cut the cost of liquidity
insurance to the financial system.  The BOE will expand the range of collateral it accepts in
its facilities and offer money for longer periods on cheaper
terms, Carney said in a speech in  London  late yesterday.
Officials will also consider making some liquidity tools
available to a wider array of institutions.  The move broadens Carney’s revamp of the BOE since taking
charge in July, and follows an independent review into the
bank’s liquidity operations. The former  Bank of Canada  governor
has made changes to monetary policy by introducing guidance on
the forward path of  interest rates , and brought in McKinsey &
Co. to advise on its strategy after it took on expanded powers.  “We are building a liquidity framework for the markets of
tomorrow,” Carney said. “These efforts will help set the stage
to improve further the supply of credit within the U.K.”  The  overhaul  of the central bank’s Sterling Monetary
Framework will expand monthly indexed long-term repo auctions,
and aims to reduce the price and stigma of banks using its
bilateral  Discount Window Facility , the bank said in a separate
document.  The bank will retain its temporary Extended Collateral Term
Repo Facility providing funding against the widest range of
collateral, and expand the collateral accepted in its facilities
to include the drawn portions of corporate revolving credit
facilities.  Raw Loans  “We are offering money and collateral for longer terms,
Carney said. ‘‘The range of assets we will accept in exchange
will be wider, extending to raw loans and, in fact, any asset of
which we are capable of assessing the risks.’’  In some cases, fees for using facilities will be cut by
more than half, he said.  The governor said demand for the BOE’s liquidity facilities
will increase as its  quantitative-easing program  and credit-boosting Funding for Lending Scheme are wound down, and as
regulators tighten regulation.  ‘‘The management of collateral will become more important
and the central bank can play a role in ensuring that those
markets are always there so when there’s a shock to those
markets, firms have an alternative,” Carney told reporters at a
press conference after his speech. “Our job is to make sure
that that is still the case three years, five years, 10 years
down the road.”  Global Standards  Carney’s comments show that officials “are going to be
much more flexible in terms of the assets and the collateral
they will accept, if they help out banks,”  Andrew Sentance , a
former BOE policy maker, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television today. “Hopefully it’s something we won’t need. It’s
a contingency plan.”  In the absence of global standards on how lenders should
structure themselves so they can be easily unwound if they go
bust, national supervisors have been seeking “to protect their
own interests,” threatening London’s competitiveness as a
financial center, Carney said in his speech.  Where agreements have been made between regulators in
different countries on how to resolve international banks, they
need to be “backed up by harsh economic incentives,” he said.  The Financial Stability Board, a global group of regulators
and central bankers which Carney leads, will develop guidelines
on the subject by the Group of 20 Nations meeting next year in
 Brisbane  in  Australia , Carney said.  Market Reforms  London should lead reforms to make the fixed income and
derivative financial markets more transparent and more resilient
along the lines of equity markets, Carney said.  Since the financial crisis, global banks have raised $500
billion of new equity and are on course to meet the Basel III
regulatory standards more than four years in advance of their
deadline, he said. In the U.K., all major banks and building
societies have “credible plans” to achieve the BOE’s capital
and leverage thresholds, Carney said.  Responding to the government’s move this month to allow
Chinese banks to set up branches to establish London as a hub
for offshore  yuan  trading, he said they won’t be able to take
deposits unless they can be easily wound down in a crisis.  “Helping the internationalisation of the  renminbi  is a
global good, consistent with London’s historic role,” he said.
Still, “our risk appetite for foreign branches will largely be
determined by whether their activities in the U.K. are covered
by credible recovery and resolution plans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  