-- Cemex Posts 16th Straight Loss as Mexico Construction Slumps
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-10-24T14:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/cemex-posts-16th-straight-loss-as-mexico-construction-slumps-1-.html
Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) , the largest cement maker
in the Americas, posted a net loss for the 16th straight quarter
as a sales decline in Mexico blunted the company’s revived
fortunes in the U.S.  The third-quarter loss narrowed to $155 million from $203
million a year earlier, the Monterrey, Mexico-based company said
in a  statement  today. Operating earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose 1.6 percent to $747 million,
trailing the $782.6 million average of eight analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Cemex’s losses have continued as a slowdown in the Mexican
construction industry has presented a new challenge after the
company emerged from a slump in the U.S. housing market. Third-quarter sales in  Mexico  fell 11 percent to $776 million, and
operating Ebitda tumbled 21 percent to $248 million.  While rising competition, delays in government spending and
bad weather in September hurt Cemex’s performance in Mexico, the
company got a boost in U.S. and northern Europe, according to
Carlos Hermosillo, an analyst at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB.  “The consolidated results are in line with our
estimates,” Hermosillo said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. “Mexico came in a little weaker than expected, and
that might draw some attention.  The positive part is that the
Europe operations are better than what I was estimating.”  Cemex rose 1.2 percent to 13.88 pesos at 8:59 a.m. in
Mexico City. The shares had gained 12 percent this year through
yesterday, as the benchmark IPC index fell 7.2 percent.  Positive Flow  Cemex’s Ebitda amounted to 18.6 percent of sales in the
third quarter, compared with 18.8 percent a year earlier. The
company reported free cash flow of $209 million, the first
positive figure this year.  “Positive free cash flow was very good, as was keeping the
consolidated Ebitda margin unchanged despite Mexico’s
contraction,” Esteban Polidura, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG
in Mexico City, said in an e-mail response to questions.  Total cement sales volume was little changed at 17.1
million metric tons and ready-mix concrete volume advanced 1.1
percent to 14.7 million cubic meters. Aggregates such as sand,
gravel and crushed stone were little changed in volume.  Cement volumes in Mexico dropped 13 percent in the third
quarter, while cement prices fell 3 percent. Delays in public
spending and losses at three publicly traded homebuilders have
left the nation’s construction industry “depressed,”
 Corporativo GBM (GBMO)  SAB, a broker, said in a report this month.  U.S. sales climbed 7.9 percent to $891 million, and Ebitda
almost tripled to $78 million. Revenue in northern Europe
advanced 5.8 percent to $1.17 billion, with a 14 percent gain in
Ebitda to $162 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  