-- China’s Manufacturing Strengthens in Boost to Recovery: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-24T06:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/china-manufacturing-gauge-tops-forecasts-in-boost-to-recovery.html
China ’s manufacturing strengthened
more than anticipated this month, a sign the recovery is gaining
momentum even as leaders struggle with surging  home prices  and
local-government debt.  The preliminary 50.9 reading for a  Purchasing Managers’
Index (EC11FLAS)  released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
compared with a 50.4 median estimate from analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  Stocks fell as the manufacturing report was overshadowed by
concern that the government could  tighten credit  and clamp down
further on the  property market . Money-market rates jumped the
most in more than two months today, while a report earlier this
week showed home prices in four major cities rose the most since
January 2011 in September.  “The pickup in the flash PMI suggests that economic
momentum may hold up in October, but we maintain our view that
growth will slow” in the fourth quarter and 2014 “as monetary
policy tightens to contain inflation and financial risks,”
Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
 Hong Kong , said in a note today.  Last month’s final level of 50.2 differed from an initial
51.2, the biggest gap since HSBC began giving advance figures in
2011.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks fell 0.8
percent at 2:24 p.m. local time, while the  yuan  touched a 20-year high of 6.0813 per dollar and the Australian dollar gained.  Control Risks  Officials are wrestling with controlling risks from shadow
banking and local-government debt while keeping growth above a
“bottom line” of 7 percent. The government has rolled out
fiscal stimulus, including spending on railways and replacing
shantytowns, to support expansion without cutting  interest rates 
or banks’ reserve requirements.  China’s one-year interest-rate swap rose today by the most
in two months after the People’s Bank of China refrained from
injecting funds via reverse-repurchase agreements for a third
straight auction.  Premier  Li Keqiang  said this week that the nation is on
track to achieve its economic goals in 2013 after expansion
accelerated to 7.8 percent last quarter from a year earlier.  “This momentum is likely to continue in the coming months,
creating favorable conditions for speeding up structural
reforms,”  Qu Hongbin , HSBC chief China economist in Hong Kong,
said in a statement.  PMI Gauges  Elsewhere today in the Asia-Pacific region, New Zealand’s
trade deficit narrowed in September from the previous month,
while Vietnam’s inflation slowed in October. In Europe, Markit
will also report PMI gauges for France, Germany and the euro
area, and the U.S. provides the August trade balance.  The final reading of the HSBC-Markit China manufacturing
PMI will be released on Nov. 1. The National Bureau of
Statistics publishes the government’s  manufacturing PMI , with a
bigger sample size, on the same day.  The Flash PMI from HSBC and Markit is based on 85 percent
to 90 percent of responses to surveys sent to more than 420
manufacturers. The survey showed output, new orders and export
orders rising at a faster pace while employment declined at a
slower rate, HSBC said.  “What this number shows is that  China’s economy  is still
on course for decent growth -- not the kind of spectacular
growth that we were used to in the past, but enough growth to
keep it above the government’s bottom line,”  Louis Kuijs , chief
China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Hong Kong,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  ‘Substantial Reforms’  Stephen Schwarzman , chief executive officer of Blackstone
Group LP, said in an interview today in Beijing that China is a
“really good long-term bet” with smart leaders who are going
to produce “very substantial reforms” next month as Communist
Party officials meet. New York-based Blackstone is the world’s
biggest manager of alternative assets such as private equity and
property.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said
today that “the pessimists about China are being proved wrong
again.”  “The recent growth numbers were encouraging,” Lowe said
in response to questions after a speech in Melbourne. Almost a
third of Australia’s exports go to China, he said.  “China is holding up pretty well” compared to other
countries amid talk that the U.S. Federal Reserve will slow its
monetary stimulus, RBS’s Kuijs said. “When financial conditions
are loose, everybody is doing fine and everybody is growing; but
then, when the Fed starts to talk about tapering, you see who is
vulnerable to these things -- China is not.”  Slower Growth  Analysts see growth slipping to 7.6 percent this quarter
and 7.4 percent in 2014, based on median estimates in a
Bloomberg survey this month, compared with the government’s 7.5
percent goal for 2013.  Data earlier this month showed  exports  fell 0.3 percent in
September from a year earlier, a decline that reflected limits
on global demand as well as distortions caused by past fake
invoicing. Industrial production rose 10.2 percent, down from
August’s 10.4 percent pace, the first slowdown in three months.  ZTE Corp. (000063) , the third-largest smartphone vendor in China,
said this week that it will probably turn a full-year profit in
2013, after a loss last year, following a 241.6 million yuan
($40 million) profit in the third quarter.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  