-- China’s Stock-Index Futures Drop Before Manufacturing Report
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-24T01:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/china-s-stock-index-futures-drop-before-manufacturing-report.html
China’s stock-index futures  fell
before the release of a preliminary manufacturing index.  Futures on the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  expiring in November slipped
0.3 percent to 2,412.40 as of 9:16 a.m.  China Merchants Property
Development Co. (000024)  may decline after third-quarter profit slid 12
percent from a year earlier. Huaxia Bank Co. may be active after
signing agreements to provide financial services at the Shanghai
Free-Trade Zone. Chongqing Brewery Co. may advance after it
reported a 24 percent increase in nine-month profit.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.3 percent to
2,183.11 yesterday, after money-market rates jumped and as a
gauge of smaller companies plunged on concern valuations were
excessive. The People’s Bank of China won’t conduct repurchase
or reverse repurchase operations today, according to a trader at
a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  The CSI 300 Index fell 1.1 percent to 2,418.49 yesterday.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 1.8 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index fell 3 percent in New York.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics are due to release a
preliminary manufacturing index for this month at 9:45 a.m. The
measure probably rose to 50.4 from 50.2 in September, according
to the median estimate of 16 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
The number of 50 divides expansion and contraction.  President  Xi Jinping  said yesterday the nation’s economic
growth and other key indicators are within targets,  China
Central Television  reported. China will discuss deepening of
reforms at the third plenum, Xi was cited as saying by CCTV.  Rate Outlook  The nation’s benchmark money-market rate jumped the most
since July yesterday as the People’s Bank of China refrained
from adding funds to markets. The rate will decline as policy
makers take steps to make cash available for the tax season,
according to TCW Group Inc.  The increase is temporary because the central bank will
provide cash to keep borrowing costs steady ahead of the plenum,
said  David Loevinger , an emerging-market analyst at TCW.  The Shanghai Composite trades at 8.6 times, compared with
the seven-year average of 15.4, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The index has rebounded 12 percent from its four-year
low on June 27 on speculation the government will take reform
measures to sustain long-term economic growth.  Chinese equities traded in New York slumped the most in
four months yesterday as Internet companies from  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  to
YY Inc. fell on concern third-quarter earnings will trail
estimates. Baidu is set to report on Oct. 29 that  third-quarter
profit  dropped 1 percent from a year ago while sales rose 40
percent, according to the average estimate of at least nine
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  