-- Chinese Newspaper Renews Call for Release of Detained Reporter
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-24T03:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/chinese-newspaper-renews-call-for-release-of-detained-reporter.html
A Chinese newspaper has issued a
second front-page appeal for the release of one of its reporters
who was detained by police in the central Chinese city of
Changsha.  Guangzhou-based Xinkuaibao, which translates to New
Express, said “again, please release him,” on its front page,
according to its website. The issue should be handled under the
law and reporters should not be first detained and then
sentenced, the paper said.  The paper’s appeals over the detention of Chen Yongzhou on
Oct. 18 have drawn attention to the rights of journalists in
 China  and the ability of local police to hold reporters. Police
in the southern city of Changsha said on the department’s
microblog that a Xinkuaibao reporter surnamed Chen was detained
after accusations he damaged the commercial reputation of a
company that wasn’t identified.  “Imagine you are a journalist and write some critical
reports about a company. Then one day the police detain you,”
the paper said in its first appeal yesterday, which was carried
on the website of other Chinese newspapers today.  The arrest came amid a crackdown on dissent after the
country’s Supreme Court last month ruled that people who post
defamatory comments online could face as much as three years in
jail. China’s media is mostly state owned and has to follow
regular orders from the propaganda authorities on what to cover,
making it unusual for newspapers to make a public stand against
the authorities.  Finances Challenged  Chen had written stories questioning the finances of
 Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology Co. , the nation’s
second-largest construction equipment maker. The Hunan local
government owned 16.2 percent of Zoomlion as of the end of 2012,
according to the company’s annual report.  The newspaper has checked Chen’s reporting on Zoomlion and
“overall it is fairly objective, in our view it doesn’t have
any specific problems,” an unnamed person at the paper told the
official Xinhua News Agency, according to a statement on the
paper’s website. Chen did not violate any professional or legal
ethics, according to the statement.  The only mistake Chen made was to give the wrong figure for
advertising expenses, it said.  Police are investigating the case, said a media official
for the company. He added that Chen failed to contact the
company to verify facts for all his stories about Zoomlion. He
asked not to be identified, citing company policy.  Zoomlion’s shares fell 5.93 percent  yesterday , the biggest
decline since June 20.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  