-- China’s Rate Jumps Most in Two Months as Injections End
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-24T08:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/china-money-rate-jumps-most-in-two-months-as-cash-injections-end.html
China’s money-market rate jumped the
most in two months as the central bank refrained from injecting
cash in open-market operations for the third auction in a row
amid signs of a pickup in Asia’s biggest economy.  The People’s Bank of China has suspended selling reverse-repurchase contracts since Oct. 17, after offering seven- or 14-day agreements at twice-weekly auctions for more than three
months. The PBOC drained a net 58 billion  yuan  ($9.5 billion)
this week, the most since February, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That compared with a  withdrawal  of 44.5 billion yuan in
the week ended Oct. 18.  “The goal for the central bank is to maintain relatively
steady monetary conditions, neither too loose nor too tight,”
said Becky Liu, a senior rate strategist at Standard Chartered
Plc in Hong Kong. “The spike was purely a reversal of the
earlier overly accommodative condition. A 4 percent money-market
rate is still the desirable level.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate  rose 65 basis points, the
biggest increase since July 29, to 4.67 percent, according to a
daily fixing by the National Interbank Funding Center. The
overnight repo rate increased 27 basis points, or 0.27
percentage point, to 4.07 percent, after surging 70 basis points
yesterday. The yield on government bonds due August 2023
increased six basis points to 4.21 percent, the highest for a
benchmark 10-year note since September 2008.  Quarterly corporate tax payments contributed to the
increases in borrowing costs, Pin Ru Tan, an interest-rate
strategist at HSBC Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong, said
yesterday.  ‘Tightly Balanced’  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed payment needed
to receive the floating seven-day repo, rose seven basis points
to 4.12 percent as of 16:36 p.m. in  Shanghai , the biggest
increase in two months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 4.14 percent, the highest since Sept. 12.  “It’s pretty clear that the PBOC’s baseline is a tightly
balanced liquidity level, but to achieve the goal, it can be
flexible,” said Chen Long, an analyst at Bank of Dongguan.  “I
don’t think repo sales are necessary for now, especially since
it’s almost the end of the month.”  The pressure for monetary and credit expansion is still
large as the trade surplus widens and capital flows in, the
central bank said in an Oct. 16 statement. There is ample
liquidity in the banking system and the central bank will follow
a “prudent” monetary policy, according to the statement.  A gauge of  China ’s manufacturing rose more than economists
forecast in October, with a Purchasing Managers’ Index released
today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showing a
preliminary reading of 50.9. Fifty is the dividing line between
contraction and expansion.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  