-- China’s Cleaner-Air Plan Puts Water Supplies at Risk: WRI
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-24T16:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/china-s-cleaner-air-plan-puts-water-supplies-at-risk-wri.html
China’s plans to develop coal-to-gas
plants as part of efforts to reduce air pollution may pose a
threat to water supplies in arid regions, according to a
research group involved in climate and energy issues.  “Most of the plants are planned to be built in the west
including  Inner Mongolia , where China has its main coal
production,” Wen Hua, a Beijing-based analyst at the World
Resources Institute, said yesterday. The region is “more water-stressed,” and converting coal to gas is a water-intensive
process, Wen said by phone.  A spike in pollution that pushed the  air quality  to
“ hazardous ” levels caused the northeastern city of Harbin to
shut schools and grounded flights on Oct. 22. Seven of the 10
Chinese cities with the worst smog in the third quarter were in
the Hebei area that surrounds Beijing.  These underscore the urgency of the government’s initiative
to combat air pollution in major cities. Pollution is the
leading cause of social unrest in  China , according to Chen
Jiping, a former member of the Communist Party’s Committee of
Political and Legislative Affairs.  As of September, the government approved 18 large-scale
plants with a capacity to produce 75.1 billion cubic meters of
the so-called synthetic natural gas converted from coal,
according to data from WRI. If running at full capacity, the
plants will consume at least 500 million cubic meters of fresh
water annually.  SNG plants require water for cooling, production and to
remove contaminants post-production. One cubic meter of SNG
requires 6 to 10 liters (1.6 gallons to 2.6 gallons) of
freshwater to produce, Washington-based  WRI said .  Water Competition  To generate the same amount of heat, embedded water
consumption of burning such natural gas is about 18 times of
that of coal, according to Wen.  More than 76 percent of the planned SNG capacity is where
places either compete with other users for limited water
supplies or have little water available at all, Wen and analysts
Luo Tianyi and Tien Shiao wrote in an analysis on Oct. 23.
“Eleven of the approved plants, eight from Xinjiang Province
and three from Inner Mongolia, are located in catchments that do
not have major reservoirs.”  China’s goal “of deriving 7.5 percent of its energy mix
from natural gas by 2015 is boosting demand for the fuel,”
Charlie Cao, a Beijing-based analyst from Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said. “The current supply of natural gas isn’t enough,
prompting the nation to adopt the method of producing gas from
coal.”  Synthetic natural gas plants may also generate more  carbon
emissions  than mainstream fossil fuels, Wen said. Installing
desulfurization equipment at  power plants  would be another
measure to rein in air pollution, according to Greenpeace.  Heilongjiang province, of which Harbin is capital, has the
lowest desulfurization coverage rates in the nation and one of
the highest coal power capacities lacking equipment that helps
reduce pollutants, the environmental group said yesterday in a
statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  