-- China Said to Plan Letting More Companies Sell Short-Term Debt
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-24T05:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/china-said-to-plan-letting-more-companies-sell-short-term-debt.html
China  plans to let more companies
sell short-term debt that matures in 270 days or less, said two
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The National Association of Financial Market Institutional
Investors, which regulates the sales, will require issuers to
have a credit grade of AA+ or above from China Credit Rating Co.
in addition to a similar rating from another company, said the
people, who asked not to be identified as they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly about the plans.  The requirement for a ranking from China Credit Rating,
which NAFMII set up in 2010, will ensure companies with large
debt burdens aren’t allowed to sell short-term commercial paper,
they said. Almost all companies set up by local Chinese
governments to fund infrastructure projects aren’t currently
able to get that rating, they said.  Allowing more companies to issue short-term debt is the
latest step authorities have taken to expand China’s debt
markets as they push firms to rely less on bank loans and more
on bond and share sales for funding. Sales of domestic corporate
bonds totaled 876 billion  yuan  ($144 billion) in the first nine
months, more than double total annual sales in 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Wall Street Journal reported on the rule change
earlier. Calls to NAFMII’s international department, which
handles inquiries from foreign media, weren’t immediately
answered today.  NAFMII, which is controlled by the  People’s Bank of China ,
held a meeting with financial institutions on Oct. 22 to discuss
the rule changes, the people said. A date for implementation has
yet to be announced, they said.  In addition to the credit ratings, NAFMII will also limit
issuers to companies that have sold at least three bonds that
raised a minimum 5 billion yuan in total during the past three
years, the people said.  Currently, only companies controlled by China’s central
government are allowed to sell debt maturing in 270 days or
less. They must also have a credit rating of AAA. The AA+ rating
issuers will need from China Credit Rating is equal to an AAA
rating from other companies, the people said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  