-- Chong Hing Shares Halted as Yue Xiu Said to Near Purchase
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-10-24T02:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/chong-hing-shares-suspended-amid-takeover-speculation.html
Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111)  shares were
suspended from trading after three people with knowledge of the
matter said Yue Xiu Group was nearing an agreement to acquire
the Hong Kong lender.  An announcement may come as early as this week, the people
said yesterday, asking not to be identified because the
discussions are confidential. Chong Hing shares jumped 7 percent
yesterday to a record close of HK$37.40, valuing the company at
HK$16.3 billion ($2.1 billion). The lender’s parent,  Liu Chong
Hing Investment Ltd. (194) , was also halted from trading.  The first acquisition of a Hong Kong lender since 2009
would give Yue Xiu, a trading arm of  China ’s Guangzhou city
government, a network of 53 branches that would allow it to
provide overseas financing for Chinese companies. Chong Hing,
which named Lau Wai-man as the first chief executive officer
from outside the founding Liu family last year, said in August
it had been approached by prospective bidders.  “If Yue Xiu can gain a bank, it will be easier for them to
offer cross-border financing,” said Samuel Ng, an analyst at
Daiwa Capital Markets  Hong Kong  Ltd. “There’s room to expand
that business.”  Two calls to Yue Xiu’s Guangzhou office went unanswered
today. Edith Chan, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at Chong Hing,
declined to comment.  Shares of the bank and Liu Chong Hing Investment were both
suspended pending an announcement related to a takeover or
merger, the two companies said in a joint statement today. Liu
Chong Hing Investment climbed 5.5 percent to HK$19.88 yesterday.  Family Control  Hong Kong’s role as an international center for trade in
the  yuan  has attracted Chinese financial institutions seeking to
expand abroad, including  China Merchants Bank Co. (600036) , which paid
$4.7 billion for the Wu family’s Wing Lung Bank Ltd. in a deal
completed in 2009.  Hong Kong retail lenders’ exposure to non-banking companies
on the mainland increased 11 percent to HK$2 trillion at the end
of June from the start of this year, according to the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority’s half-yearly report released last month.  The Liu family controls about 60 percent of Chong Hing,
exchange filings show. The lender said Oct. 8 that its
controlling shareholder was in talks with Yue Xiu and “certain
other independent third parties.”  Wing Hang Bank Ltd. (302) , another family-owned Hong Kong lender,
said last month its shareholders were in talks to sell their
stakes, without identifying any buyer. The Fung family, its
affiliates and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. together hold about
45 percent of the company.  Wing Hang Bid  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s third
largest, is considering a bid for Wing Hang, Reuters reported
yesterday, citing people familiar with the matter. The Chinese
lender doesn’t have overseas acquisition plans, the bank said in
a statement.  Wing Hang shares gained 1.2 percent to HK$115.70 as of
10:18 a.m. Hong Kong time.  Dah Sing Banking Group Ltd. (2356) , run by
the Wong family, rose 3.8 percent to HK$14.78, the highest
intraday price since Jan. 17, 2011.  Chong Hing, with a larger family stake, is smaller and
easier to acquire, said Daiwa’s Ng.  CEO Lau was appointed to replace Liu Lit-chi, a family
member who had spent more than 50 years at the bank. The lender,
founded in 1948 as Liu Chong Hing Bank Ltd., dropped the family
name in December 2006 to “more accurately reflect the public
nature of the bank,” according to its  website .  ‘Ridiculous’ Valuations  Chong Hing has jumped more than 150 percent in Hong Kong
trading since Nov. 28, 2012, when Lau’s appointment was
announced. The stock trades at 2.18 times historical book value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Wing Hang, with a
market value of HK$35.1 billion, has a price-to-book multiple of
1.72.  China  Merchants Bank ’s purchase of Wing Lung Bank,
completed in 2009, valued the lender at 3.1 times book value,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd.’s Chief Executive Officer  Michael Smith , who lost out
to Merchants Bank in the bidding, called that ratio “crazy.”  Hong Kong banks remain overpriced, Smith said Oct. 8,
describing a ratio of two times book value as “ridiculous at
these times.”  Yue Xiu Group, founded in 1985 by the Guangzhou city
government as a trading company for Hong Kong and Macau,
 operates in  businesses including real estate, securities and
toll roads. It is getting a $1 billion short-term loan to
finance a potential Chong Hing bid,  Bloomberg News  reported Oct.
11.  Branch Network  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority announced changes to the
city’s banking regulations this month as it sought to tighten
oversight of shareholders in local lenders.  Last year, Guangzhou Securities Co., a member of Yue Xiu
Group,  set up a joint venture  advisory company with  Hang Seng
Bank Ltd. (11) , Hong Kong’s second-largest local lender.  Chong Hing’s network of 51 branches in the city -- it also
has one each in Macau and China -- compares with more than 260
at  BOC Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. , the Bank of China Ltd. unit
that’s the biggest local lender.  Nomura Holdings Inc. is working with Yue Xiu on the deal,
while UBS AG is advising Chong Hing, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  