-- Citigroup, Credit Suisse Said to Face U.S. MBS Probes
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-25T14:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/citigroup-credit-suisse-said-to-face-u-s-mbs-probes.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  are among banks grappling with a round of U.S. probes into
mortgage-bond sales, as the government uses a 1989 law to extend
scrutiny of Wall Street’s role in the credit crisis and seek
additional penalties from the industry.  The Justice Department is examining whether both companies
violated the Financial Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act,
which targets misconduct affecting federally insured financial
firms, according to people briefed on the situation.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp.  also are facing FIRREA
inquiries, people familiar with those cases have said.  A task force created by President  Barack Obama  last year is
making use of the law, a relic of the savings-and-loan crisis of
the 1980s, while examining mortgage-bond underwriting that
fueled investor losses and prompted unprecedented government
bailouts of banks in 2008. FIRREA carries a 10-year statute of
limitations, giving investigators twice as much time to bring
complaints than allowed under other securities laws.  The wave of FIRREA probes will lead to “increased
litigation costs for banks resulting from government
investigations and related private plaintiff litigation and
increased exposure for executives involved in these probes,”
said Keith Miller, a partner at Perkins Coie LLP in  New York .  The  task force , comprising state and federal agencies,
issued subpoenas and a public call for whistleblowers, amassed
millions of documents and farmed out the work to about 10 U.S.
attorneys offices. The Justice Department’s mortgage-bond
inquiries now focus on about eight banks, a person familiar with
the matter said earlier this week.  Colorado, Brooklyn  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. lender, faces probes by
U.S. attorneys in  Colorado  and  Brooklyn , New York, according to
the people, who asked not to be identified because the inquiries
aren’t public. The investigation of Zurich-based Credit Suisse,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, is being run by U.S.
attorneys in Colorado and  New Jersey , the people said. The
Financial Times reported on its website Oct. 23 which attorneys
offices are probing the banks.  Spokesmen for the three U.S. attorney’s offices, the
 Justice Department  and the companies declined to comment or
didn’t respond to messages seeking comment.  Citigroup sold $91 billion in home loans through private-label mortgage pools from 2005 through 2008, according to the
New York-based firm’s most recent quarterly securities filing.  Private Investors  Litigation over private-label securitizations “certainly
is the biggest of any remaining mortgage-related issues that we
have,” Citigroup Chief Financial Officer John Gerspach, 60,
said on an Oct. 23 conference call with bond investors. He
didn’t describe specific demands.  The bank wrote in its  annual report  for 2012 that it has
been cooperating with requests for information from regulators,
states and the Justice Department about its handling of home
loans, including their packaging and sale in securities.  Credit Suisse sold about $150 billion in home loans to
private investors and other non-agency mortgage-bond pools from
2004 through 2010, according to the Swiss bank’s 2010  annual
report . About $21.7 billion of the loans were sold primarily to
banks, the lender said. The bank said in the  report  that it’s
cooperating with regulators and other government entities
looking into the packaging and sale of mortgage securities.  Legal Costs  Wall Street’s six biggest banks have piled up more than
$100 billion in legal costs, including settlements and lawyers’
fees, since the financial crisis while responding to claims over
foreclosures and shoddy mortgages, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The time limits for investigations allowed under FIRREA
may add to those losses.  The four banks being examined for FIRREA violations issued
a total of $788 billion of non-agency mortgage-backed securities
between 2005 and 2007, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a
trade publication in Bethesda,  Maryland . Bank of America,
including deals handled by Countrywide Financial Corp. and
Merrill Lynch & Co., was the top issuer with $549 billion, the
data show.  FIRREA provides for penalties of more than $1 million for
each fraudulent statement or act, and as much as $5 million for
continuing violations of underlying criminal statutes. Those
limits may be exceeded to recover ill-gotten gains or investor
losses,  according  to the Justice Department.  Unspecified Penalties  U.S. attorneys in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , sued Bank of
America in August, citing FIRREA. The complaint, seeking
unspecified penalties, accused the firm of misleading investors
about the quality of loans tied to $850 million in mortgage-backed securities. The bank, which is disputing the case, has
said buyers of the bonds were “sophisticated investors”
capable of assessing the risks.  The lender was accused in the lawsuit of defrauding
investors, including federally insured financial institutions.
The U.S. also said that alleged misconduct posed financial risks
to Charlotte-based Bank of America itself by making it
vulnerable to civil litigation and regulatory cases.  Bank of America is facing additional FIRREA scrutiny, two
people with direct knowledge of the matter said this week. U.S.
attorneys in Georgia and  California  are conducting probes tied
to Countrywide., the subprime lender Bank of America acquired in
2008, the people said. U.S. attorneys in New Jersey are
reviewing deals involving Merrill Lynch, which the firm
purchased in 2009, the people said.  Countrywide Case  Countrywide was found liable of FIRREA violations on Oct.
23 for selling bad loans to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . The
amount of the civil penalty the bank will have to pay will be
determined later.  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank , reached a tentative $13
billion agreement with the Justice Department last week to end
civil claims over mortgage-bond sales, including those handled
by Bear Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual Inc. operations
purchased in 2008, a person familiar with the talks said.  U.S. attorneys in California are examining potential FIRREA
violations by New York-based JPMorgan that would be resolved in
the settlement to end a variety of state and federal probes, a
person with knowledge of the deal has said. Terms of the accord,
described by people familiar with the talks, are still being
negotiated.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.
The bank recorded a $7.2 billion charge in the third quarter to
cover the cost of mounting litigation and regulatory probes,
resulting in the first quarterly loss under Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keri Geiger in New York at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  