-- Citigroup Said to Offer Servicing on $63 Billion Mortgages
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   P i e r r e   P a u l d e n
-- 2013-10-24T21:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/citigroup-said-to-offer-63-billion-in-mortgage-servicing-rights.html
     Oct. 24 (Bloomberg) -- Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest
U.S. bank, is selling mortgage-servicing rights on $63 billion
of loans, its largest potential sale of this type since the 2008
financial crisis, according to two people briefed on the offer.  The servicing rights, or MSRs, represent about 21 percent
of Citigroup’s total contracts as of midyear, and could be sold
in pieces, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the sale is private. More than 80 percent of the loans
are performing, according to the people.  Citigroup’s offering comes as the nation’s banks, including
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , retreat from the
almost $10 trillion mortgage-servicing market amid looming Basel
III regulations. That’s attracting private-equity firms and
 hedge funds  including  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and GSO
Capital Partners LP to assets that can increase in value when
borrowing costs rise and giving them more control over the
rights to collect Americans’ monthly mortgage payments.  “It’s a step toward cleaning up their capital,” said
David Stephens, the chief financial officer at Denver-based
United Capital Markets Inc., who added he didn’t have specific
knowledge of the Citigroup offering. Demand is currently high
enough that banks can sell the rights without recording a loss,
he said.  Basel Regulations  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman at New York-based Citigroup,
declined to comment on the potential sale. Citigroup’s Tier 1
common ratio under Basel III regulations was 10.4 percent at the
end of September, according to a statement. Its risk-weighted
assets under the regulations shrunk to $1.16 trillion from $1.19
trillion at the end of March.  Citigroup owned the servicing rights on $301 billion of
mortgage balances at the end of June, according to the lender’s
quarterly securities filing. The bank valued those contracts at
$2.52 billion at midyear.  MSRs are trading for between four and five times the 25
basis point servicing fee, according to Stephens. If Citigroup
gets a similar price, it may collect between $630 million to
$788 million in the sale, he said.  Shares of mortgage firms that have been large buyers of
servicing rights rose in  New York  trading.  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN) 
climbed 3 percent,  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  advanced
2.7 percent and  Walter Investment Management Corp. (WAC)  gained 1.5
percent. Citigroup was little changed at $50.15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Pierre Paulden at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  