-- Copper Climbs in London as China Manufacturing Advances
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-10-24T17:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/copper-climbs-in-london-as-china-manufacturing-advances.html
Copper futures fell to the lowest in
more than a week on demand concerns after benchmark money-market
rates advanced the most since June in  China , the world’s biggest
consumer of the metal.  Chinese policy makers are withdrawing liquidity as a
recovery in the world’s second-largest economy sends inflation
to the highest since February. Higher money-market rates raised
concern that credit growth will ease, slowing economic expansion
and demand for metals.  “The market is clearly nervous about the spike in Chinese
rates,”  Bill O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors in  Upper
Saddle River ,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview. “It
shows how sensitive copper is to anything coming out of China.
This may keep prices under some pressure.”  Copper futures for delivery in December dropped 0.1 percent
to settle at $3.2635 a pound at 1:05 p.m. on the Comex in New
York, after touching $3.2455, the lowest since Oct. 14. Prices
slid 2 percent yesterday, the biggest loss for a most-active
contract since July.  A gauge of real-estate  shares  listed in  Shanghai  has fallen
1.1 percent so far this week. The Copper Development Association
says construction generates about 40 percent of demand for the
metal, used in pipes and wiring.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months gained 0.1 percent to $7,175 a metric ton ($3.25 a
pound).  Also in London, aluminum rose as much as 1 percent. Orders
to remove the metal from warehouses rose 2.1 percent to 2.16
million tons and are up 8.2 percent this week, poised for the
biggest increase since December.  Lead, nickel tin and zinc were also higher in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in Washington at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  