-- Court Upholds Ghailani Conviction in Embassy Bombings
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-10-24T17:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/court-upholds-ghailani-conviction-in-embassy-bombings.html
The CIA interrogation of an al-Qaeda
terrorism suspect before he was transferred to civilian court
for trial didn’t violate his constitutional right to a speedy
trial, a federal appeals court ruled.  Lawyers for  Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani , a Tanzanian sentenced
to life in prison for helping carrying out 1998 bombings of U.S.
embassies in  East Africa , argued that his 2010 conviction for
being part of a terrorist conspiracy should be thrown out. The
bombings killed 224 people, including 12 Americans.  Instead of being transferred to civilian custody for trial
after he was captured in  Pakistan  in July 2004, Ghailani was
held in U.S. custody for 57 months, subjected to so-called
enhanced interrogation techniques by the Central Intelligence
Agency, which his lawyers called torture, and moved to the U.S.
naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He was transferred to
civilian custody in June 2009.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
 Manhattan   today upheld  a lower-court ruling against Ghailani,
saying the interrogation was “to obtain actionable and time-sensitive intelligence necessary to thwart acts of terror while
still bringing those charged with committing crimes of terrorism
against Americans to justice in an orderly fashion.”  “The  Supreme Court  has repeatedly held that the government
may purposely delay trials for significant periods of time, so
long as, on balance, the public and private interests render the
delay reasonable,” the judges said in a unanimous decision.  Trial Court  U.S. District Court Judge  Lewis Kaplan , who presided over
Ghailani’s trial, ruled earlier there was no evidence that the
government had acted in bad faith.  The almost simultaneous bombings were at the embassies in
 Dar es Salaam , Tanzania, and Nairobi, Kenya, in August 1998.  Witnesses testified that Ghailani helped buy the Nissan
refrigeration truck used in the blast at the embassy in
Tanzania, and that he and a co-defendant bought high-pressure
metal tanks and filled them with oxygen and acetylene to magnify
the blast impact. He fled with other co-conspirators just before
the attack, prosecutors said.  The lower-court case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-1023, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
appeal is U.S. v. Ghailani, 11-00320,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 