-- Credit Suisse Misses Estimates as Securities Profit Falls
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-10-24T12:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/credit-suisse-net-climbs-79-.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-biggest Swiss bank, posted a smaller increase in third-quarter
profit than analysts estimated and said it will scale back its
interest-rates trading business.  The bank, based in Zurich, fell as much as 3.5 percent in
Swiss trading after reporting net income of 454 million francs
($509 million), less than the 724 million-franc average estimate
of nine analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “The results are very disappointing,” said Dirk Becker, a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux with a buy
recommendation on the stock. “Credit Suisse has been promising
us for years a business model that would deliver stable earnings
throughout the cycle. And again we have such a strong slump at
the investment bank.”  The fixed-income business had an especially challenging
quarter as client activity slowed during a difficult period for
the industry, Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. There has been “a slight
improvement” in the markets recently, though it remains to be
seen if it will last, Dougan said later on a conference call.  Credit Suisse fell 2.8 percent to 29 francs by 1:53 p.m. in
Zurich trading. The shares gained 39 percent over the past 12
months, compared with a 53 percent increase at  UBS AG (UBSN) , the
largest Swiss bank. UBS decided last year to exit most of its
fixed-income trading to focus on managing money for the wealthy.  Debt Trading  Dougan, 54, is scaling back debt trading at the investment
bank and cutting costs company-wide to improve profitability.
Credit Suisse is aiming for a 50-50 split in risk-weighted
assets between the investment bank and its money management
units, compared with 63 percent used by the securities business
at the end of June.  The company aims to boost its underlying return on equity,
a measure of profitability, to more than 15 percent compared
with 10.6 percent in the first nine months of this year and 10.4
percent in 2012.  Credit Suisse is creating units for non-strategic
activities within both its divisions to accelerate the reduction
of costs and capital deployed. It plans to bring the company’s
total risk-weighted assets down to 250 billion francs from 261
billion francs at the end of September.  ‘More Aggressive’  “The market was hoping for a more aggressive shrinkage in
the investment bank,”  Kian Abouhossein , a London-based analyst
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a note to clients today. “The
mix of 50-50 investment bank capital versus stable business in
the long-term to us is not going far enough considering the
investment bank remains almost double the size of UBS in terms
of risk-weighted assets. We would have liked and expect in the
long term further investment bank restructuring.”  At the securities division, the bank will transfer 10
billion francs of risk-weighted assets including parts of the
rates business, which focuses on government bonds and interest
rate swaps and options, to the non-strategic unit. The remaining
rates business will have a higher return on equity, according to
Credit Suisse.  In cash products, it will focus on high-volume electronic
trading, while the derivatives business will be geared toward
simplified products that would mostly be centrally cleared. The
reorganization will lead to a $7 billion reduction in risk-weighted assets by the end of 2015 from $16 billion at the end
of September at the rates business and a $60 billion reduction
in Swiss leverage exposure over the coming years, the bank said.  “By downsizing the investment bank further, we think
Credit Suisse could ‘reveal’ the higher returns of asset and
wealth management,” Morgan Stanley analysts Hubert Lam and Huw van Steenis said in a note this month.  Rates Outlook  The outlook for the rates business is “challenging” given
the possibility of the U.S. Federal Reserve paring down its
monthly pace of asset purchases and investors looking to switch
from bonds to stocks, according to Morgan Stanley analysts.
Rates had the lowest rolling four-quarters’ return on equity
among investment bank businesses as of the end of September,
Credit Suisse’s slides showed.  Chief Financial Officer David Mathers said on a conference
call with journalists today that there will “certainly” be job
losses at the rates business and supporting functions related to
the reorganization, declining to provide numbers.  The investment bank’s pretax profit fell 53 percent in the
quarter to 229 million francs from 483 million francs a year
earlier as revenue from fixed-income sales and trading slumped
42 percent to 833 million francs. Revenue from equities rose 8.3
percent to 1.07 billion francs.  U.S. Firms  Competitors also had declines in the debt business in the
period.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley
reported a 25 percent decline in cumulative third-quarter
revenue from fixed income and a 9.7 percent gain in equities,
compared with a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries show. The figures exclude valuation adjustments.  Credit Suisse is seeking to cut 4.5 billion francs in
annual costs by the end of 2015, with most of the remaining
reductions happening at the private banking and wealth
management business and in shared services. So far cuts have
reached 3 billion francs. The bank increased the target from 4.4
billion francs.  The private banking division is ending relationships with
offshore clients from 83 countries with cumulative assets under
management of about 3 billion francs, Mathers said. The bank
will be repositioning its onshore businesses in markets
including the U.S. and  Germany , and plans to expand in
profitable markets such as Italy and Spain, Mathers said. It
also plans to increase lending to ultra-high-net-worth
individuals, especially in  emerging markets , to boost
profitability.  Wealth Management  The non-strategic unit in private banking will include
positions related to the reorganization of the former asset
management divisions, select cross-border businesses Credit
Suisse is exiting, litigation costs, including those related to
the U.S. tax probe, as well as the impact from a restructuring
of the German onshore business.  Credit Suisse is considering the sale of part of its wealth
management business in Germany, three people with knowledge of
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
deliberations are private, said in June. The bank may focus on
ultra-rich clients and sell the remainder, said two of the
people. Dougan said today the bank is still considering various
options for the business.  Pretax profit at the  private banking  and wealth management
division increased 8.8 percent to 1.02 billion francs in the
third quarter from 936 million francs a year earlier. All
businesses posted increases in profit as asset management
boosted revenues from a year earlier, while the wealth
management and corporate and institutional clients units cut
costs.  Shrinking Margins  The division attracted 8.1 billion francs in net new assets
in the quarter, with 3.2 billion francs from wealth management
clients as inflows in Asia Pacific and the Americas were partly
offset by 2.3 billion francs in outflows from western European
cross-border businesses.  The gross margin in the wealth management business, which
shows how much the bank earns on assets under management, fell
to 105 basis points in the quarter from 111 basis points in the
second quarter. That’s the lowest level since at least 1998,
according to Kepler Cheuvreux’s Becker. A basis point is one
hundredth of a percentage point.  Credit Suisse needs to resolve a U.S. investigation into
whether some of its private bankers may have helped American
clients evade taxes. The bank has been a target of a criminal
investigation by the Department of Justice over former cross-border private-banking services to American customers since at
least July 2011. About a dozen other Swiss banks are also being
investigated.  “It continues to be something that we work on and frankly
it’s unclear when we’ll be able to reach a resolution,” Dougan
said of the U.S. probe. “We’ll obviously be working as hard as
we can toward it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  