-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold; Bristol-Myers Squibb Sells Debentures
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-24T21:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-bristol-myers-squibb-plans-debt-sale.html
A measure of U.S. company credit
risk hovered above a six-year low after a Labor Department
report showed more Americans than forecast filed applications
for unemployment benefits last week.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) 
issued $1.5 billion in bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.3 basis point to 72.3 basis points at 5:12 p.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark closed
Oct. 22 at the lowest level since November 2007 in data that
adjust for the effects of the market’s shift to a new version in
September.  Investors are assessing economic data to gauge how long the
 Federal Reserve  will refrain from reducing the monetary stimulus
that has boosted credit markets. The Fed may delay paring the
monthly pace of its bond purchases until March, according to the
median estimate of 40 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “Given the interest-rate outlook, corporate fixed-income
looks pretty solid going forward,” Jon Sablowsky, head of
trading at Brownstone Investment Group LLC in New York, said in
a telephone interview.  The number of Americans filing for  unemployment benefits 
decreased to 350,000 in the week ended Oct. 19 from a revised
362,000 in the prior period, a Labor Department report showed
today in  Washington . The median forecast of 48 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a decrease to 340,000.  Bristol-Myers  The swaps index typically climbs as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bristol-Myers, the maker of the blood thinner Plavix, sold
$500 million each of five-, 10- and 30-year bonds, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The offering is graded A2 by Moody’s Investors Service, the
ratings company said today in a statement. Proceeds from the
sale may be used for general corporate purposes including the
repayment of all or a portion of the company’s commercial paper
borrowings, according to a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Prologis Inc. (PLD) , a San Francisco-based industrial real-estate
company, sold $500 million in 3.35 percent notes due 2021 that
yield 145 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
Bloomberg data show.  High Yield  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, rose 1.6 basis points to 348.8 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries rose 0.3 basis point to 125.6 basis
points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade,
or junk-rated, debt fell 1.3 basis points to 663.9.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  