-- Crowd-Funding Sites Will Be Forced to Boost Capital by U.K.
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-24T12:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/crowd-funding-sites-using-loans-face-capital-rules-in-u-k-plan.html
Crowd-funding websites that
encourage people to loan money to small business would be forced
to meet minimum  capital requirements  under draft plans proposed
by British regulators.  The  U.K. Financial Conduct Authority  said it plans to phase
in the capital rules by April 2017, as it bids to boost consumer
protection standards and extend the scope of its regulatory net
over the crowd-funding industry. The FCA already regulates sites
that encourage people to take equity stakes in small businesses.  “Crowd funding is the market’s response to banks’ under-lending and the FCA must be careful not to over-regulate this
important source of alternate finance,”  Simon Morris , a
regulatory lawyer at CMS Cameron McKenna LLP in  London , said in
an e-mail.  Crowd-funding sites face tougher scrutiny from authorities
on concerns that the growing industry could lead to market
abuses that are outside the traditional reach of regulators.
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said earlier
this month that he’s weighing the need for a “single European
framework” for crowd-financing services.  “Some protection is required and the FCA’s plans appear
broadly proportionate,” Morris said. “But the FCA must ensure
that its planned licensing regime for loan-based crowdfunding
does not overburden legitimate operators or deter lenders
through excessive red tape.”  The crowd-funding market is worth about 360 million pounds
($582 million) in the U.K., according to FCA data.  Behave Responsibly  “Peer-to-peer lenders have been pressing for regulation
for some time and believe it is important that all firms
entering this important new market behave responsibly, treat
their customers fairly and manage their risks,” Christine Farnish, chairwoman of the Peer-to-Peer Finance Association, a
trade group representing crowd-funding platforms, said in an e-mail  Under the FCA plan, loan-based crowdfunding platforms would
have to hold a minimum of 50,000 pounds in capital. The amount
could rise in individual cases depending on the volume of loans
handled on the site.  The capital would be tapped in situations where a business
running a crowd-funding website goes bankrupt while processing a
loan.  “Consumers need to be clear on what they’re getting into
and what the risks of crowd-funding are,” Christopher Woolard,
the FCA’s director of policy, risk and research, said in an e-mail. “Our rules provide this clarity and extra protection for
consumers, balanced by a desire to ensure firms and individuals
continue to have access to this innovative source of funding.”  Cooling Off  In the FCA’s plan, consumers would also be given a 14-day
cooling off period to back out of a loan, and more information
of the risks of their investment.  “Research indicates that around 50 percent to 70 percent
of business start-ups fail completely,” the FCA said. “So
consumers investing in such companies need to understand that it
is likely they will lose 100 percent of any money invested.”  Loan-based sites are one of a number of business models in
the crowdfunding industry, which also includes firms such as
Kickstarter Inc. that are based on donations.  The FCA said that only equity-based and loan-based sites
require regulation.  The regulator is seeking views on the plans until Dec. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  