-- Czechs Vote as Social Democrats Vow to Reverse Austerity
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-10-25T12:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/czechs-vote-as-social-democrats-vie-to-lead-shift-from-austerity.html
The Czechs began voting in a snap
election that may pave the way for a reversal of austerity
policies that fueled the nation’s longest-ever recession.  The  Social Democrats , who are advocating more spending, are
leading all surveys with about 26 percent support, followed by
the Communists and ANO, founded by self-made billionaire Andrej Babis. Polling stations across the central European country of
10.5 million opened at 2 p.m. and will close at 10 p.m. today.
Voting will resume at 8 a.m. tomorrow and end at 2 p.m.  The Czechs may join an anti-austerity wave that swept away
governments from  Portugal  to  Finland  and toppled established
parties during Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis. Voters may also
hand the Social Democrats a fragmented legislature, with a
record seven parties set to enter parliament, threatening to
prolong political gridlock that followed the fall of former
Prime Minister Petr Necas in a spying and graft scandal in June.  “This election is unlikely to be conclusive and policy
implications may not be clear for many months to come,”  Charles Robertson , global chief economist at  Renaissance Capital  in
London, said in an e-mailed report yesterday. The  Czech Republic 
“is more likely to shift toward tax and spend policies.”  Zeman Spotlight  The vote will bring President Milos Zeman back into the
spotlight, giving him the right to name the leader who will try
to form a cabinet with majority backing in parliament. If the
first pick fails to win a confidence vote, Zeman will have
another attempt, with the head of parliament making the third
selection.  In June, Zeman roiled political parties by snubbing
lawmakers and picking non-partisan Jiri Rusnok as the technocrat
prime minister. While Rusnok’s cabinet failed in a confidence
vote, it’s staying in power in a caretaker role until a new
administration is formed after the elections.  Zeman would favor a cabinet formed by the winning party
even if the administration lacked a parliamentary majority, he
said Sept. 1. Such a government would approve laws based on
agreement with other parties in parliament, Zeman said.  The Social Democrats are considering forming a single-party
cabinet, possibly backed by the Communists. The main opposition
party in the past seven years, led by Bohuslav Sobotka, plans to
raise taxes on top earners and businesses including banks,
utilities and telecommunication companies to finance spending
increases on pensioners and infrastructure. It’s targeting a
budget  deficit  of less than 3 percent of economic output.  Inconclusive Vote  Necas credited deficit reductions with helping to secure
the highest  credit rating  among the EU’s post-communist members
at Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s , on par with
 Estonia , which adopted the euro in 2011.  The cuts in state investment and increases in the value-added tax curbed domestic demand and exacerbated 18 months of
economic  recession  the country exited in the second quarter.  The Czech Republic, which has a history of unstable
governments, is preparing to elect its eighth premier in a
decade, more than  Italy  or any other EU country in the period.  Elections in 2006 resulted in a hung parliament, leading to
months of wrangling before  Mirek Topolanek ’s cabinet was
approved. It collapsed three years later in the midst of the
country’s EU presidency.  Investors have ignored the political track record as the
Czech  economy  doubled in size from 2003 to $196 billion,
according to World Bank data. The  yield  on the country’s 10-year
government bond has averaged 3.9 percent over the past decade,
compared with 5.6 percent for Poland and 3.5 percent for higher-rated  France. (GFRN10)   Currency, Bonds  The yield on  10-year koruna debt  was little changed at 2.33
percent today, holding 19 basis points, 0.19 percentage points,
below comparable U.S. Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The koruna and Czech government bonds will be probably in
a wait-and-see position, because there’re quite a few possible
post-election scenarios,” Jan Cermak, an analyst at CSOB AS,
the Prague-based  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ’s unit, said in an Oct. 21 e-mail.  Apart from the austerity fatigue, polls showed niche
parties with names such as Head Held High and Dawn are tapping
into anger over Czech graft, which  Transparency International 
ranks as the worst among the largest ex-communist EU economies.
Parties campaigning against corruption, which also include ANO,
or YES, are backed by a quarter of the electorate, according to
the latest polls.  “The larger the number of parties represented in
parliament and the broader the governing coalition, the less
likely it will be to serve its term in office,” Tsveta Petrova,
an analyst at New York-based Eurasia Group, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  