-- Daimler CEO Strategy Vindicated as Buyers Snatch Up Cars
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-10-24T15:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/daimler-profit-beats-estimates-as-cla-boosts-compact-car.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  forecast fourth-quarter
operating profit will advance as customers snatch up the
Mercedes-Benz CLA coupe, E-Class sedan and flagship S-Class, an
indication Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche ’s strategy to
roll out new models to boost earnings is gaining traction.  Just eight months ago, Zetsche received a new contract of
only three years, instead of the usual five, after investors and
labor leaders pushed for a shorter extension on concerns Daimler
wasn’t progressing in efforts to increase profit.  Today, the shares rose to the highest in almost six years
after the Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker reported a 16
percent increase in third-quarter earnings before interest and
taxes to 2.23 billion euros ($3.08 billion), beating the 2.09
billion-euro average  estimate  of 11 analysts.  “This shows that the high investments we have made were
money well spent,” Zetsche said in a statement today. “We will
continue to invest in products and production sites.”  Mercedes, the world’s third-largest luxury brand, is
experiencing a resurgence in popularity as the four-door CLA, A-Class hatchback and van-like B-Class compact lineup outstrips
production capacity. The gains in the carmaker’s nine-month
deliveries exceeded those at  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi.  Sustainable Improvement  Along with the compact models, Mercedes in April started
selling a revamped E-Class, an up-market sedan that competes
with BMW’s 5-Series and Audi’s A6. A new version of the S-Class,
the most expensive Mercedes sedan, came to market in July. The
automaker has more than 30,000 orders for the revamped flagship
model, Chief Financial Officer Bodo Uebber told reporters today.  “The earnings improvement could well be sustainable,”
said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Bankhaus
Metzler. “Daimler is currently more dynamic than the
competitors.”  The German manufacturer’s shares gained 3.3 percent to
60.32 euros, the highest close since Jan. 3, 2008. The stock has
 advanced  46 percent this year, valuing the company at 64.5
billion euros.  Zetsche has expanded Mercedes’s current product range of 23
cars and sport-utility vehicles, up from 19 six years ago. He’s
also developing another 13 all-new models in the next eight
years, including the GLA compact SUV due in showrooms in early
2014.  Higher Profitability  “We could sell more” of the new compact cars, “but are
currently restricted by production capacity,” Uebber said. The
new vehicles are “hitting the mark” with customers, which is
reflected by growing European market share, he said. “It’s very
encouraging.”  Mercedes-Benz Cars, which also includes the Smart city-car
brand, posted a third-quarter operating margin of 7.3 percent,
higher than the year-earlier figure of 6.4 percent and better
than in the first half. Third-quarter group  revenue  at Daimler,
also the world’s largest maker of heavy-duty trucks, gained 5.3
percent to 30.1 billion euros.  Faster-than-expected progress in a cost-cutting program at
the Mercedes-Benz passenger car division also lifted third-quarter profit, Uebber said. The unit, which aims to lower
spending by 2 billion euros through 2014, achieved 70 percent of
the savings for this year by the end of September.  “The momentum is supporting Daimler,” said Frank Biller,
a Stuttgart-based analyst with LBBW. “We expect that Daimler
will continue to improve margins and diminish the gap to the
competitors.”  China Growth  BMW, Audi and Mercedes are all targeting record global
deliveries in 2013 as growth in China, the U.S. and  South
America  offsets a sixth straight drop in annual industrywide
sales in  Europe . In the past month, Mercedes has outlined plans
to return to carmaking in  Brazil  by 2016, and stuck to a 67
percent expansion in South African production by mid-2014 in a
strategy to meet emerging-market demand with local output.  Mercedes’s growth in China, the world’s largest automotive
market, had been hampered by a distribution structure that split
deliveries of locally made and imported vehicles. The carmaker
combined the sales units last December. In August, Daimler said
it will invest 2 billion euros to double local production to
more than 200,000 vehicles.  Daimler is on track to open 75 new dealerships in  China 
this year, Uebber said. About half the new showrooms are already
up and running, and the rest will follow this quarter.  Daimler expects the purchase of a 12 percent stake in
Beijing Automotive Group Co.’s auto division to close before the
end of the year, Uebber said. Mercedes and BAIC, as the Chinese
company is known, already operate factories together making the
German brand’s C- and E- Class sedans and GLK SUV.  “Daimler’s third-quarter figures are pointing in the right
direction,” said Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst at Fairesearch
GmbH in Kronberg,  Germany . “Zetsche still has some work to do
to close the margin gap to BMW and Audi.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  