-- Detroit Elected Officials Didn’t Cut Costs, Analyst Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   S t e v e n   R a p h a e l
-- 2013-10-24T17:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/detroit-elected-officials-didn-t-cut-costs-analyst-says.html
Detroit ’s elected officials failed
to propose any significant cost savings before an emergency
manager was appointed in March, a financial analyst said in a
trial to determine whether the city can remain under court
protection from creditors.  Gaurav Malhotra, a partner at Ernst & Young LLP who had
advised the city since May 2011, was asked today by an attorney
for Detroit union workers about savings contained in a
restructuring plan developed before the state takeover. The
lawyer, Jack Sherwood, sought to challenge the need for the
city’s $18 billion bankruptcy filing.  Malhotra said he couldn’t remember any cost savings
achieved by Detroit’s elected officials “that were of
significance.” Selling property to raise money and reduce debt
wouldn’t stop the city’s long-term overspending, he said.  Malhotra, who began testifying yesterday, was the first of
five witnesses the city said it will present at the trial in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Detroit. Lawyers for retired and
current city workers have attacked the decision by state-appointed emergency manager Kevyn Orr to put Detroit into
bankruptcy, where creditors can’t try to seize assets or file
suits that disrupt reorganization efforts.  Detroit will need to spend about $1.25 billion over 10
years to restructure operations, invest in decaying
infrastructure and remove blight, a consultant told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes today.  ‘Severely Broken’  Charles M. Moore, who analyzed the city’s operations,
testified that he discovered during his review that “a number
of departments were severely broken.” The spending estimate
includes $250 million to fix operations for a decade and
$500 million for blight removal over six years, Moore said.  In the months before Detroit filed for bankruptcy, it tried
to avoid running out of money for basic services by moving cash
around, canceling payments to pension funds and defaulting on
debt, Malhotra testified yesterday.  The actions were designed “to ensure that the city did not
have a payless payday,” Malhotra said. Without a change, the
city would build up a $3.9 billion deficit over 10 years, mainly
because of the cost of providing pension and health-care
benefits to retirees, he said.  In opening statements yesterday, lawyers for the retirees
and city workers said Detroit hasn’t met the standard set out in
Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  to remain under court
protection.  Law’s Requirements  The law says the city must show that it’s insolvent, that
it’s entitled under state law to file for bankruptcy, that it
tried to negotiate with creditors or was unable to do so, and
that it intends to file a plan to adjust its debts.  Orr was never serious about trying to fix the city’s
finances outside of bankruptcy, said Jennifer K. Green, an
attorney for a city pension system fighting the Chapter 9 case.  State officials conspired with  Jones Day , the  law firm 
where Orr was a partner, to create a new emergency manager law
and use it to file for bankruptcy, giving Detroit leverage over
unions and retirees, she said.  “It really was a foregone conclusion,” Green said.  Detroit has a “mountain of evidence” showing it’s
entitled to federal  bankruptcy protection ,  Bruce Bennett  of
Jones Day, a lawyer for the city, said at the beginning of the
trial, which is scheduled to last through Oct. 29. Detroit is
“failing to provide basic services,” he said.  Not Negotiations  Orr told unions that the talks the city was holding with
them weren’t negotiations, said Sharon Levine of Lowenstein
Sandler PC. She and Sherwood are representing the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.  Bennett said Orr was trying to avoid having the talks come
into conflict with  labor laws . For bankruptcy purposes, the
city’s meetings with creditors were a good-faith effort to
negotiate with creditors, Bennett said.  That distinction was lost on the audience of union
officials, who believed it meant the city was not open to their
opinions, Levine said. Detroit was simply presenting its plan,
not trying to solicit a counter-proposal, she said.  “It was basically a classroom-type instruction, period,”
Levine said.  The city filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy in
July saying it didn’t have the money to pay its bondholders,
retirees and employees everything it owes them while still
providing basic services to citizens.  Unions, retirees and the city’s pension system claim
 Michigan ’s constitution prevents Detroit from cutting pensions.  Snyder Testimony  Governor  Rick Snyder , who testified under oath in a
videotaped deposition this month, is prepared to testify in
court Monday, said Matthew Schneider, a lawyer with the state.
Snyder, a Republican, is being called as a witness by the  United
Auto Workers , which represents some city workers and is trying
to show that the bankruptcy filing wasn’t in good faith.  Rhodes extended Monday’s hearing to 5 p.m. from 3 p.m. to
allow Snyder to finish his testimony in one day. Snyder is
scheduled to take the stand at 1 p.m.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Raphael in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   sraphael5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  