-- Detroit Swaps Deal Threatened City’s Cash, Buckfire Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-10-24T21:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/detroit-swaps-deal-threatened-city-s-cash-buckfire-says.html
Detroit ’s deal with swaps investors
threatened the city’s best source of cash in the months before
it filed the biggest municipal bankruptcy, investment banker
Kenneth Buckfire said in a trial to determine whether the city
can remain under court protection from creditors.  A 2009 deal gave the swaps investors power to lock up much
of the $180 million a year that Detroit gets from taxes on its
casinos, Buckfire testified today. That put added pressure on
the city, which had only a $7 million cushion on a budget of
more than $1 billion, he said.  Buckfire, the co-president of  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) ’s
Miller Buckfire & Co., said he and other advisers “were
extremely alarmed” when they received a report on Detroit’s
cash position earlier this year. “The city was operating on a
razor’s edge,” he said.  Buckfire was the third of five witnesses the city said it
will present at the trial in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Detroit.
Lawyers for retired and current city workers have attacked the
decision by state-appointed emergency manager Kevyn Orr to put
Detroit into bankruptcy, where creditors can’t try to seize
assets or file suits that disrupt reorganization efforts.  Buckfire also testified that bondholders demanded full
repayment during negotiations designed to avert a bankruptcy,
relying on an assumption that general obligation bonds were safe
because any municipality that issued them was required to raise
taxes to repay the debt.  Paying Pennies  Under a restructuring proposal made before the city filed
bankruptcy in July, Orr said he would pay holders of such bonds
and other unsecured debt pennies on the dollar.  Buckfire is scheduled to return to court tomorrow to face
questions from union and retiree lawyers trying to get the
bankruptcy case thrown out. Buckfire, who grew up in the suburbs
outside Detroit, said he has led the city’s financial
restructuring team since January.  He has followed Detroit’s financial troubles since it was
downgraded by bond-rating firms in 2009, he said. Last year, the
state hired him to do a 60-day review of Detroit’s finances. The
city later agreed to hire Miller Buckfire after the state
required local officials to bring on a financial adviser as a
requirement to get more aid.  No Savings  Earlier, Gaurav Malhotra, a partner at Ernst & Young LLP,
testified that Detroit’s elected officials failed to propose any
significant cost savings before Orr was appointed in March.  Malhotra who had advised the city since May 2011, was asked
by an attorney for Detroit union workers about savings contained
in a restructuring plan developed before the state takeover. The
lawyer, Jack Sherwood, sought to challenge the need for the
city’s $18 billion bankruptcy filing.  Malhotra said he couldn’t remember any cost savings
achieved by Detroit’s elected officials “that were of
significance.” Selling property to raise money and reduce debt
wouldn’t stop the city’s long-term overspending, he said.  Detroit will need to spend about $1.25 billion over 10
years to restructure operations, invest in decaying
infrastructure and remove blight, another witness told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes today.  Charles M. Moore, a consultant who analyzed the city’s
operations, testified that he discovered during his review that
“a number of departments were severely broken.” The spending
estimate includes $250 million to fix operations for a decade
and $500 million for blight removal over six years, Moore said.  Opening Statements  In opening statements yesterday, lawyers for the retirees
and city workers said Detroit hasn’t met the standard set out in
Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  to remain under court
protection.  The law says the city must show that it’s insolvent, that
it’s entitled under state law to file for bankruptcy, that it
tried to negotiate with creditors or was unable to do so, and
that it intends to file a plan to adjust its debts.  Governor  Rick Snyder , who testified under oath in a
videotaped deposition this month, is prepared to testify in
court Monday, said Matthew Schneider, a lawyer with the state.
Snyder, a Republican, is being called as a witness by the  United
Auto Workers , which represents some city workers and is trying
to show that the bankruptcy filing wasn’t in good faith.  Rhodes extended Monday’s hearing to 5 p.m. from 3 p.m. to
allow Snyder to finish his testimony in one day. Snyder is
scheduled to take the stand at 1 p.m.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  