-- Deutsche Post Aid Appeal Must Be Reviewed, EU Court Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-10-24T15:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/deutsche-post-state-aid-appeal-must-be-reviewed-eu-court-says.html
A European Union court was ordered
to re-examine  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s appeal against a state aid
probe that forced the bloc’s biggest postal company to repay 298
million euros ($411 million) in subsidies.  The EU’s General Court’s initial ruling rejecting an appeal
against the EU probe included mistakes and “has to be
annulled,” the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg ruled today.
It sent the case back to the lower court to be reassessed.  Deutsche Post in 2007 sought to ban a decision by the
European Commission, the EU’s executive agency, to investigate
“all public measures, such as transfers of public money and
tariff income” granted to the Bonn-based company and its
predecessor Postdienst since 1989. It lost an appeal against the
probe two years ago.  “This decision strengthens our legal position, but it’s
only one step on the way,” said Dirk Klasen, a spokesman for
the Bonn-based company. Deutsche Post has paid back to  Germany 
some 298 million euros in subsidies that the EU said violated
the bloc’s state aid rules, Klasen said.  The expanded EU probe followed a commission decision in
June 2002 that Germany must recover 572 million euros of illegal
aid to Deutsche Post because the postal service had improperly
used the money to cover losses in its parcel-delivery business.  Deutsche Post in 2008 won a lower EU court ruling to
overturn the 2002 decision. That ruling was upheld by the EU’s
top court in 2010, by which time the original amount had
increased to 1.15 billion euros with the addition of interest.  The case is:  C-77/12 P , Deutsche Post v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  