-- Dish Offers Fixed Wireless in Trials in Broadband Bet
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-10-24T20:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/dish-offers-fixed-wireless-in-trial-markets-in-bet-on-broadband.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  is planning to
offer fixed-wireless broadband in trial markets, an expansion of
a partnership with  Ntelos Holdings Corp. (NTLS)  that could signal the
satellite-TV provider’s broader wireless plans.  Dish will begin selling the service in several Virginia
cities including Roanoke and Charlottesville in early 2014. The
goal is to reach 500,000 homes, Dish and Ntelos said in a
statement.  Bundling fixed-wireless broadband with Dish’s video service
will give the third-largest U.S. pay-TV provider a more robust
offering to compete against cable and telecommunications
companies that provide high-speed Internet. Dish is attempting
to acquire LightSquared Inc.’s wireless spectrum out of
bankruptcy and already owns airwaves that could be used for a
fixed-wireless service if it builds a network.  “With nearly a fifth of U.S. households underserved by
broadband, a fixed wireless solution could deliver an additional
broadband option to millions of consumers,” Tom Cullen, Dish’s
executive vice president of corporate development, said in the
statement.  Fixed-wireless broadband uses signals from airwaves for
 Internet access  instead of cables. Speeds in trials have ranged
from 20 megabits per second to more than 50 megabits, the
companies have  said . That’s comparable to standard high-speed
cable broadband and faster than satellite broadband.  Dish rose 0.3 percent to $49.28 at the close. Ntelos, based
in Waynesboro, Virginia, rose 0.2 percent to $19.07.  Fallback Plan  Using spectrum for a fixed-wireless product isn’t Dish
chairman and co-founder  Charlie Ergen ’s first choice, Tim Farrar, an analyst at TMF Associates Inc., said in an interview.
Ergen’s preference is to find a partner that offers nationwide
wireless service so that Dish customers can receive full
mobility instantly, he said.  “Just doing fixed broadband is a low value use of spectrum
compared to using it in a mobile network,” Farrar said. “But
he may go ahead with a build-out if he thinks no partner is
going to emerge any time soon.”  Dish attempted to acquire  Sprint Corp. (S)  and Clearwire
Corp.’s spectrum earlier this year before abandoning the effort.
 SoftBank Corp. (9984)  eventually agreed to a $21.6 billion takeover of
Sprint.  Dish also offers a satellite broadband product to rural
consumers who may not have access to Internet from a cable
company,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS or  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s U-verse. Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, ended the second
quarter with about 310,000 satellite broadband subscribers.  Verizon and AT&T have also experimented with fixed-wireless
broadband products using external home antennas. More recently,
AT&T is trying out an  in-home receiver , which use cellular
network connections to provide high-speed data access and phone
service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  