-- Dollar at Almost 2-Year Low as U.S. Confidence Sags: Peso Climbs
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-25T21:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/dollar-near-two-year-low-against-euro-before-confidence-data.html
The dollar traded at almost the
weakest level in two years versus the euro after U.S. consumer
sentiment fell to a 10-month low, adding to bets the economy is
struggling and the  Federal Reserve  will delay cutting stimulus.  The greenback slid for a second week versus the yen as
 orders (DGNOXTCH)  fell for U.S. durable goods other than transportation
equipment. The Fed, which meets next week, will put off slowing
bond purchases until March, economists forecast.  New Zealand ’s
dollar sank after the central bank signaled hesitation to raise
interest rates.  Mexico ’s peso climbed as policy makers indicated
a rate cut will be the last for a while.  “Tapering is a dirty word that won’t be acted upon for
perhaps nine to 12 months,”  Richard Franulovich , the chief
currency strategist for the northern hemisphere at Westpac
Banking Corp. in  New York , said in a phone interview. “The
numbers today by and large reinforce my message.”  The dollar depreciated as much as 0.2 percent to $1.3832
per euro, the weakest since November 2011, before trading little
changed at $1.3802 at 5 p.m. New York time. It gained 0.1
percent to 97.42 yen after touching 96.94, the lowest since Oct.
9. The dollar lost 0.8 percent this week versus the euro and 0.3
percent against the yen. The euro rose 0.2 percent to 134.46 yen
today, gaining 0.5 percent on the week.  Euro Rally  The euro has climbed to its strongest level on a trade-weighted basis since August 2011, according to Deutsche Bank
AG’s EUR Trade-Weighted Index.  The currency’s strength “is now significant enough to
potentially impact the ECB’s outlook for inflation, and it may
comment on the euro in this context,”  Jens Nordvig , managing
director of currency research at Nomura Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s
biggest brokerage, wrote in a note, referring to the  European
Central Bank . “An actual policy response -- beyond verbiage --
seems unlikely in the near-term.”  Nomura recommended investors bet on the euro appreciating
against the yen. The ECB has kept its benchmark  interest rate  at
0.5 percent since May.  Futures traders increased bets earlier this month to the
most since May 2011 that the euro would gain against the  U.S.
dollar , figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. The data was delayed by the
government’s partial shutdown this month.  The  difference  in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the euro compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 68,276 as of Oct.
1, the widest in more than two years, compared with net longs of
65,844 a week earlier.  Relative Strength  Europe ’s shared currency may have gained too much, too fast
against the greenback, a technical indicator signaled for a
fourth straight day. The euro’s 14-day relative strength index
was at 74, above the 70 level some traders see as a sign a drop
may be imminent. It was the longest since September 2012.  Malaysia’s currency rallied against the majority of its 31
most-traded peers as Prime Minister Najib Razak took steps for a
shift toward fiscal prudence, scrapping sugar subsidies and
unveiling plans for a  consumption tax  in 2015.  The ringgit appreciated 0.1 percent to 3.1570 per dollar in
the third day of gains.  Mexico’s peso gained as the nation’s central bank cut the
key interest rate and said further reductions “aren’t
recommended in the foreseeable future.” Policy makers reduced
the rate a quarter-percentage point to 3.5 percent, as forecast
in a Bloomberg survey, to help revive the economy. The peso
strengthened 0.7 percent to 12.8812 per greenback.  Brazil ’s real gained 0.7 percent to 2.1872 to the dollar
after falling yesterday to the weakest level since Oct. 9.  Fed Stimulus  The Fed will delay tapering its $85 billion of monthly bond
buying until its March 18-19 meeting, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg on Oct. 17-18. A poll last month forecast
the first reduction would be in December.  The central bank, which meets Oct. 29-30, buys Treasuries
and mortgage-backed securities to push down long-term yields and
spur growth, a move that tends to debase the greenback. It
unexpectedly refrained in September from slowing the pace of its
buying, saying it wanted more evidence of an economic recovery.  The dollar lost 1.1 percent in the past month, making it
the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes after the Canadian
dollar, which slid 2.6 percent. The euro strengthened 1.1
percent, while the yen was little changed.  Kiwi Drops  The  New Zealand dollar  weakened after central bank Governor
Graeme Wheeler said increasing  interest rates  “would put upward
pressure on the exchange rate and damage our traded-goods
sector.” The kiwi sank 0.9 percent to 82.80 U.S. cents.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final U.S.
consumer sentiment index for October decreased to 73.2, the
lowest since December, from 77.5 the prior month. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey called for a decline to 75
compared with a preliminary reading of 75.2.  Orders for U.S. durable goods excluding transportation
equipment, where demand is often volatile, fell 0.1 percent in
September after a revised 0.4 percent decrease in August, the
Commerce Department said today in  Washington . Total bookings for
goods meant to last at least three years increased 3.7 percent.  “The data was soft, which argues for a weaker dollar,”
said Eric Viloria, a senior currency strategist at Gain Capital
Group LLC in New York.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $41 billion, versus $48 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and monitored by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the
dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $8 billion, the largest
share of trades at 19 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate
totaled $7.4 billion, or 18 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 4 percent more than the
average for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
52 percent above average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  