-- Dow Chemical Earnings Miss Estimates as Epoxy Unit Declines
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-10-24T20:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/dow-chemical-earnings-miss-estimates-after-decline-at-epoxy-unit.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker by revenue, reported profit that trailed
analysts’ estimates amid higher costs and lower sales in the
unit that makes epoxy, used in plywood and can linings.  Third-quarter net income rose to $594 million, or 49 cents
a share, from $497 million, or 42 cents, Midland, Michigan-based
Dow said today in a statement. Profit excluding restructuring
costs was 50 cents a share, missing the  54-cent average  of 16
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 0.7 percent to $13.7
billion, less than the $14 billion average estimate.  Earnings in the performance-materials unit, which makes
chlorine derivatives such as epoxy, fell 36 percent. Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Andrew Liveris said on a conference
call today that he’s expanding a plan to divest $1.5 billion of
assets to as much as $4 billion, including epoxy and vinyls.  “In performance materials, the impact from higher oil and
higher propylene was a little more than most people expected,”
John Roberts, a New York-based analyst at UBS AG who recommends
buying the shares, said by phone today.  Dow dropped 1 percent to $40.62 at the close in New York.
 The shares  have gained 26 percent this year.  Plastics Gain  A jump in September hydrocarbon prices didn’t give Dow
enough time to recoup the extra cost, eroding earnings, Liveris
said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop with  Betty Liu .”  The  agriculture segment  had the biggest drop, with earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization tumbling
71 percent as North American farmers increased returns of unused
seed and sales of seeds and genetic licenses declined 4 percent.  The best-performing unit was performance plastics, where
earnings climbed 32 percent on higher pricing. Profit at the
coatings unit rose 15 percent, the first year-over-year gain in
five quarters, as prices and sales volumes improved.  The company agreed on Oct. 11 to sell its polypropylene
licensing and catalyst unit to W.R. Grace & Co. for $500 million
as part of its March plan to divest $1.5 billion of
underperforming assets by the second half of 2014.  Targeted Assets  Liveris said he now plans to divest $3 billion to $4
billion of units within two years, and many of the newly
targeted assets use chlorine as a raw material. Dow is the
world’s largest chlorine producer and Liveris said he plans to
retain capacity to supply raw materials for plastics packaging,
crop chemicals and other higher-margin products.  “A different owner is better positioned to extract maximum
value long-term from portions of our chlorine and derivatives
assets such as epoxy resins, chlorinated organics, and the
vinyls chain,” Liveris said on the call with analysts.  Cash from the sales should allow Dow to boost its dividend
and increase share repurchases, UBS’s Roberts said.  Dow plans to cut $100 million of costs from the epoxy unit,
where margins have compressed because of excess capacity in
 China , even as it pursues a “near term” sale or joint venture
for the business, Liveris said. Costs in the polyurethanes unit,
which the company plans to retain, will be cut by a similar
amount, he said.  Dow is investing $4 billion to build ethylene and propylene
plants on the U.S. Gulf Coast to take advantage of low-cost
natural gas liquids. Sadara Chemical Co., a venture of Dow and
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., is due to start production at a $19.3
billion complex in Saudi Arabia in the second half of 2015.  Dow, founded in 1897 as a bleach maker, is the world’s
biggest producer of epoxy resins and some grades of polyethylene
plastic. It’s the world’s second-biggest chemical maker by sales
after  Germany ’s BASF SE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  