-- Draghi Melt-Up Makes Europe Emerge From Germany to Greece
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-10-25T13:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/draghi-melt-up-makes-europe-emerge-as-germany-to-greece-recover.html
The biggest European rally in 19
months is leaving virtually no stock behind, pushing up equity
prices from  Frankfurt  to Athens as investors plow money into the
region at the fastest rate since 2002.  The  Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  has climbed 21 percent since
reaching its 2013 low on June 24, with every constituent but
three advancing, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Banks,
automakers and phone firms are leading gains on prospects
earnings will expand as the region’s financial system heals and
its longest recession ever ends.  Lured by the lowest valuations compared with the rest of
the world and the best returns relative to emerging economies in
more than a decade, mutual fund clients have sent fresh cash to
European money managers for 15 straight weeks. European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi is underpinning markets with a
pledge to protect the euro even as a recovery takes hold in
everything from manufacturing to Spanish  gross domestic product .  “By Draghi standing up and saying what he said out loud,
it was the first time that a politician of relevance in  Europe 
was prepared to react and be ahead of events,” said  David Moss ,
a portfolio manager at F&C Asset Management in  London , which
oversees $149 billion. “The economy has stopped being a
headwind. The underlying prospects are not great by any stretch
of the imagination, but are much better.”  2013 Advance  The Euro Stoxx 50 advanced 0.7 percent to 3,038.96
yesterday, leaving the index up 15 percent for 2013 after
closing at a 2 1/2-year high on Oct. 22. The  measure  tumbled 35
percent between February and September 2011 as the debt crisis
that forced five nations to accept a bailout worsened. The gauge
fell 0.1 percent at 3:20 p.m. in Frankfurt today.  Since taking over at the ECB in November 2011, Draghi has
reduced  interest rates  to a record low, vowed in July 2012 “to
do whatever it takes to preserve the euro,” and said this year
that borrowing costs would remain low for an extended period.  His actions helped bring down Spanish and Italian 10-year
government bond yields to 4.14 percent and 4.15 percent from as
high as 7.75 percent and 7.48 percent. The euro has climbed 7.9
percent since July 9 to a near two-year high against the dollar.  “Europe is a in a very difficult situation but it’s moving
in the right direction,” Andrew Goldberg, who helps oversee
$1.5 trillion as global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset
Management, said in a presentation in London on Oct. 21. “It’s
not just core Europe, southern Europe is improving too. We are
seeing lots of opportunities.”  No Taboos  Draghi has gone beyond the efforts of predecessor  Jean-Claude Trichet  to end the euro-region debt crisis, declaring
there aren’t any “taboos” at the ECB. Draghi is proactive,
while Trichet was more conservative and believed central banks
exist to fight inflation “and needed to avoid moral hazard,”
according to  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro
Bank NV in Amsterdam.  The ECB introduced its program of longer-term refinancing
operations, or LTROs, for banks in late 2011 and early 2012,
when the region faced a cash crunch. It also unveiled the
Outright Monetary Transaction program, which would buy sovereign
bonds to cap borrowing costs for a nation that requested
assistance. It hasn’t introduced a direct bond-purchase program
like the one used by the  Federal Reserve  in the U.S.  Strengthening Economy  The actions have coincided with strengthening economic
data. A  manufacturing index  for the 17-nation currency bloc rose
to 50.3 in July, according to a survey of purchasing managers by
London-based Markit Economics, the first time since July 2011
the gauge topped the 50 level that indicates growth.  Spain 
emerged from a two-year recession in the third quarter, with GDP
expanding 0.1 percent, the Bank of Spain estimated this week.  “We have the initial signs in the figures coming out that
Europe might be making some progress behind the scenes,” Louise Kernohan, who helps oversee $312 billion at Aberdeen Asset
Management in London, said in an interview on Oct. 22. “Despite
the strong performance of Europe, valuations remain attractive
and multiples are relative low.”  The Euro Stoxx 50 is 32 percent  cheaper  than the MSCI World
Index of developed-market equities when compared to the assets
held by the companies in the gauges, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The discount fell to a record low of 40 percent in
May 2012, data starting in 2001 show.  Relative to profits, the Euro Stoxx 50 trades at 13.6 times
this year’s estimated earnings, Bloomberg data show. That
compares with valuation ratios of 15.8 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 18.4 for Japan’s Nikkei-225 Stock Average.  Economic Outlook  The euro-region economy will grow 1 percent in 2014,
following two years of contraction, according to forecasts from
54 economists compiled by Bloomberg. That’s still slower than
the 2.6 percent expansion estimated for the U.S., 1.6 percent
for Japan and 7.4 percent for China.  Richard Lewis, who helps oversee $261 billion as head of
global equities at Fidelity Worldwide Investment, said Draghi’s
policies may backfire because he is reducing, rather than
increasing, the ECB’s balance sheet.  The ECB’s  balance sheet  shrank to 2.33 trillion euros ($3.2
trillion) in the week ended Oct. 18, from 3.1 trillion euros in
June 2012 as banks repaid funds they had borrowed to ease
liquidity at the height of the debt crisis. Meanwhile, the Fed’s
 account  has grown every month this year to a record $3.81
trillion from $2.92 trillion at the start of 2013, according to
Bloomberg data.  Draghi Credit  “I would not give so much credit to  Mario Draghi ,” Lewis
said in a phone interview in London on Oct. 22. “The markets
are busy listening to Draghi but, behind the scenes, the ECB has
done what it has always done. Our fund managers are not
overwhelmed by the strength of the European story. I don’t think
we are quite finished with the European crisis.”  European investments will have to survive tests on banks’
balance sheets and the renegotiation of bailout programs.
Lending to companies and households in the euro area fell the
most on record in August, the ECB said Sept. 26, signaling the
economy is still struggling to recover.  Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, the world’s largest, warned
today that stock market gains may reverse and said it won’t buy
more shares. Yngve Slyngstad, chief executive officer of Norges
Bank Investment Management, Europe’s biggest equity investor,
said at a press conference in Oslo that the fund is preparing
for a “correction” in equities.  Biggest Rally  The Euro Stoxx 50’s gain from June 24 to Oct. 22 was the
steepest advance since the first quarter of 2012, when it rose
22 percent in the same length of time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Compared with the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index, the euro-region gauge is having the best year since 2000,
the data show.  Banks led the rally over the past four months, with Paris-based  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest
lender, surging more than 45 percent.  The  ISEQ Index (ISEQ)  in Ireland and the ASE Index in Greece, the
first two nations to receive European Union-led bailouts, have
soared more than 28 percent this year to lead gains among 18
national benchmarks in western Europe. Dublin-based  Independent
News & Media Plc (INM)  and Athens-based  Aegean Airlines SA (AEGN)  rose the
most, with jumps of more than 180 percent. Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX) 
has advanced 18 percent in 2013, reaching a record.  Investors poured about $22.2 billion into the region’s
stock funds in the 15 weeks through Oct. 9, according to data
from research firm EPFR Global Inc., marking the longest stretch
of uninterrupted weekly inflows since May 2002.  Equity Allocation  Global money managers have the highest allocation to euro-region stocks since June 2007, a monthly survey by Bank of
America Corp. showed Oct. 17. They held less of the shares than
are represented in indexes for most of the 2008-2012 period.  “The crisis started also because capital was going out of
Europe,”  Alberto Gallo , head of European macro research at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in an interview on
 Bloomberg Radio ’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” on Oct. 21. “Now,
there is some potential for this circle to reverse and become a
virtuous circle with capital coming back. We are positioned for
Europe melting up into year-end.”  Moss at F&C says Europe’s rally will likely expand, citing
the prospect for earnings growth. Profits at companies in the
Euro Stoxx 50 are still 50 percent below the peak in 2007,
according to Bloomberg data, while those for the  S&P 500  are 23
percent higher.  European stock indexes will climb 11 percent by the end of
2014, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
eight market strategists.  For David Herro, who helps oversee about $106 billion as
chief investment officer at Harris Associates LP in Chicago,
valuations for European businesses and their sales to  emerging
markets  make the shares attractive.  “Europe is a great opportunity,” he said in a phone
interview on Oct. 23. “The European economy seems poised for
some recovery.” Stocks “haven’t bounced back completely yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  