-- Dubai Biggest Bank Joins HSBC in Predicting Faster U.A.E. Growth
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-10-24T11:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/dubai-biggest-bank-joins-hsbc-in-predicting-faster-u-a-e-growth.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , Dubai’s biggest
bank, raised its estimates for economic growth in the  United
Arab Emirates  this year to 4.4 percent, aided by an increase in
oil output.  The forecast was raised from 3.8 percent, putting the
second-biggest Arab economy on track for a higher growth rate
than Saudi Arabia for the first time in at least four years,
according to the bank’s quarterly economic report released
yesterday. Emirates NBD lowered its forecast for Saudi economic
growth to 3.9 percent from 5 percent after lower-than-anticipated expansion in non-oil industries during the first
half of the year.  Even if U.A.E. oil production stabilizes at the current 2.9
million barrels a day, “the hydrocarbon sector is likely to
contribute positively to overall gross domestic product growth
this year,” economists Khatija Haque and Jean Paul Pigat, wrote
in the report. Perhaps more important than the actual growth
rate, “is the direction of change in the forecast,” they said.  Emirates NBD joins banks such as HSBC Holdings Plc and
National Bank of  Abu Dhabi  PJSC in identifying growing momentum
in the U.A.E. economy, which had lagged behind other countries
in the region since Dubai’s 2009 debt crisis. The  International
Monetary Fund  also raised its growth forecast for the country’s
economy this month, to 4 percent from 3.1 percent.  Dubai’s benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  of stocks has surged 79
percent this year, making it the best performer among 93 global
indexes tracked by Bloomberg. Abu Dhabi’s gauge has gained 48
percent.  The U.A.E. sits on about 6 percent of the world’s proven
oil reserves. Economy Minister Sultan Al Mansoori said last
month he expects gross domestic product to expand as much as 4.5
percent this year. The HSBC United Arab Emirates Purchasing
Managers’ Index was 54.5 in August, compared with 57.7 in  Saudi
Arabia , the biggest Arab economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  