-- The U.S. Needs a Tech-Smart Government
-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-10-24T14:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/the-u-s-needs-a-tech-smart-government.html
Modern software developers move
quickly. They push out the door what they call “minimum viable
products,” revising as needed, based on their users’
experiences. They often use “open source” software -- code
that’s more stable because it’s free and therefore tested more
widely by more users.  The company executives who employ these software makers are
themselves knowledgeable about technology, and they track the
progress of their own products and others’ as well. They deploy
elaborate quality-assurance testing and strong project
management to make sure new software never cripples their
businesses. When’s the last time you saw LinkedIn stop working
when it rolled out a new product?  The  embarrassing rollout  of HealthCare.gov shows how
differently the government operates. It should also be taken as
an unparalleled opportunity for public actors at all levels --
local, state and federal -- to fix the government’s relationship
with technology.  This isn’t just about getting access to better software
programs -- after all, the National Security Agency seems to
have access to whatever it wants. The problem underlying the
HealthCare.gov debacle is more cultural than technical.  Civil servants trained in policy know little about digital
technology; as a result, they can’t ask hard questions or pitch
in to help. Many are risk-averse, too, and complacent when it
comes to large technology projects. Government technologists,
for their part, may have no experience with modern project
management and design methods. They usually aren’t at the
policy-making table; instead, they’re brought in after decisions
have been made and left to interpret the shifting demands of the
tech-blind lawyers and economists.  This is why, when faced with a big technology project, fear
of failure and inadequate internal talent drive government
agencies to call in giant contractors. These vendors may not be
the best at managing software development, but they are the best
at handling government contracts. They’ll operate using
antiquated models of project management that involve detailed,
fully baked project designs rather than minimum viable products.
And they’ll use mainstream technologies because that’s what they
know decision makers will trust. Government policy managers, by
and large, leave vendors such as CGI Federal, the contractor
behind HealthCare.gov, alone to do the work, not knowing what
questions to ask.  This is a shame, because if government could use technology
responsively, it would increase public trust.  Now that the worst has happened to the most important
policy initiative of the  Barack Obama  administration, skilled
technologists from outside government need to brought in for
short stints; many coders are interested in serving, and
government agencies need to relax civil-service restrictions to
let this happen easily. In turn, government technologists should
be embedded briefly with private companies so that they can
bring current knowledge back to their agency desks. Procurement
rules governing purchased assistance need to be rewritten, so
that civil servants are able to choose the best rather than the
cheapest.  More fundamentally, it is no longer acceptable for policy
makers and project managers to know so little about technology.
Or for technologists to be treated as mere implementers.
Government technologists have to be cross-trained in policy so
that “data-driven policy making” can be more than a turn of
phrase.  Here’s the payoff: Digital technology, thoughtfully
integrated into operations and responsibly overseen, can help
governments be more responsive to citizens’ needs. It should be
a key element in every 21st-century public project.  The Department of Health and Human Services has summoned a
“tech surge” in  Washington  to fix the bugs in HealthCare.gov.
The next step is to change the government’s whole approach to
technology.  (Susan Crawford, a professor at the Cardozo School of Law
and a fellow at the Roosevelt Institute, is the author of
“Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly Power in
the New Gilded Age.” Follow her on Twitter at  @scrawford .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 