-- Heathrow Outsells Bond Street 2-to-1 in Shopping Boost
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-10-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/heathrow-outsells-bond-street-2-to-1-in-shopping-boost.html
With 70 million people passing
through every year,  London ’s  Heathrow Airport  is betting it can
better serve those travelers -- and get them to spend more -- by
putting a greater emphasis on shopping.  To shore up its retail credentials,  Europe ’s biggest
aviation hub is expanding personal shopping services and adding
specialized retail lounges and a data-collection system aimed at
understanding passengers’ purchasing trends.  Next June, the airport is scheduled to open its revamped
Terminal 2, which will have 135,000 square feet devoted to
shops. Heathrow passengers generated 1.7 billion pounds ($2.75
billion) in retail revenue in 2012, almost double what was spent
on  Bond Street , London’s luxury hub.  Sales of luxury items at the airport have grown 17 percent
on average every year since 2008, and average revenue per square
meter of retail has increased by almost half since then, to
30,052 pounds in 2012.  “Heathrow Terminal 2 offers us access to one of the most
concentrated, valuable and influential markets in the world,”
said Sean Allam, commercial operations director for British
retailer  John Lewis , which will open its first airport store in
the new facility.  Brand Showcase  An added bonus: With so many people passing through, an
outlet in Heathrow can help spread word of British brands to
shoppers worldwide. Sandwich shop Pret a Manger, leather goods
retailer Smythson, and clothing and housewares purveyor Cath Kidston have all opened shops at the airport to help raise their
profile internationally.  “Airports are increasingly important,” said Kate Ormrod,
an analyst for researcher Verdict. “It’s such an opportunity to
showcase the brand.”  Next month, the airport expects to roll out software that
will combine retail data with information on passengers and
flights. The idea is to help stores alter displays or have staff
on hand with the appropriate language skills based on who is
passing through the terminal at any given time -- data far more
detailed than city center locations glean -- according to Muriel
Zingraff-Shariff, the airport’s retail director.  “We’ll be able to know if certain nationalities prefer red
bags and others prefer tan,” said Zingraff-Shariff, a former
board member at Harrods. “We can really tweak our offer and
change right up to the merchandising at the front of the stores
based on the big flights.”  Crocodile Handbag  Over the past decade, Heathrow has sought to capture the
allure of Asian and Middle Eastern hubs, replacing dimly-lit
corridors and closed spaces with soaring ceilings, shorter walks
and atrium-style departure areas. Terminal 5, which first
welcomed travelers in 2008, was voted the world’s best airport
facility in the 2012 Skytrax survey.  As retailers rush to claim space at Heathrow -- there were
four brands vying for each shop available in Terminal 2 --
they’re trying to recreate the atmosphere of their city-center
boutiques. One feature they’re emphasizing is personalized
shopping.  About 90 customers a month, mostly from the  Middle East  and
 China , have requested the service since it was introduced a year
ago, and in September they spent an average of $2,100 each. The
airport’s retail assistants have arranged sales ranging from
food and toothbrushes to  Dolce & Gabbana  crocodile-skin
handbags. One passenger spent 98,000 pounds ($156,564) on two
watches, and another asked for help choosing a Tiffany’s
engagement ring.  40 Languages  The team of eight speak a total of 40 languages and are
trained by London’s NHJ Style Consultancy and various brands to
ensure familiarity with goods, Heathrow personal shopper Maria
Lourenco said while browsing Gucci handbags in Terminal 5.  “Men normally have a list of products, while women are
looking for the latest trends,” Lourenco said.  This month, the service will be available to all
passengers, and next year Heathrow will open personalized
shopping lounges in Terminals 2 and 5. Passengers must book in
advance and fill out a brief form with details of what they’re
looking for, and the biggest spenders may have goods brought to
them in  private lounges .  “If there is something special a regular traveler wants on
their next journey, we can work in the meantime to make sure
that we have that special thing there,” said Hazel Catterall,
head of luxury and fashion retail at the airport.  Third-Ranked  Heathrow ranks third on the list of the world’s favored
shopping hubs, after  Seoul ’s Incheon International Airport and
Dubai International Airport, according to  Travel Retail Business
magazine . Rival Paris-Charles de Gaulle is seventh and  Frankfurt 
is eighth.  Though typical airport duty free goods such as liquor,
cigarettes, and perfume still make up much of the retail sales
at Heathrow, luxury is the airport’s fastest growing category,
Zingraff-Shariff said.  “We’ve seen a definite shift in the way the brands
consider travel retail,” she said. “It was a little bit of an
afterthought, and now it has become a strategic direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  