-- ECB Urges Companies Not to Delay Adoption of SEPA Rules
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-10-24T11:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/ecb-urges-companies-not-to-delay-adoption-of-sepa-rules.html
The  European Central Bank  said
companies shouldn’t wait until the last minute to adapt to new
payment-transfer standards entering into force in 100 days.  “Information compiled by the ECB and the euro-area
national central banks show that many key stakeholders have
decided to migrate only in the last quarter of 2013, or even
later” to common technical standards in the  Single Euro
Payments Area , the ECB said in its second SEPA Migration Report
released today. “This approach generates operational risks and
limits the ability to tackle any issues or unexpected
developments that might arise during the changeover period.”  SEPA enables customers to make euro transfers across
borders within  Europe  using a single payment account and a
single set of payment instruments. Thirty-three European
countries are participating in the project initiated to promote
a single market for  bank transactions . Adherence to the new
standard is mandatory from Feb. 1.  “Since our first migration report, we have been
emphasizing the fact that both payments providers and users are
responsible for being sufficiently prepared,” ECB Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said in the report. “And our message
to them is still the same: don’t leave it to the last minute.”  Single Market  The new legal requirements were put in place as an
initiative to support the single market in Europe. Payment
orders by companies that do not comply with the new rules once
the deadline hits on Feb. 1 will not be allowed to be processed
by payment-service providers.  “It is a legal requirement for all actors to be ready,”
Coeure said on a conference call with journalists.  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, less than 14 percent
of all transfers and less than 1 percent of all direct debits
followed SEPA standards in the third quarter, Bundesbank board
member Carl-Ludwig Thiele said at a press conference in
 Frankfurt  today.  “If companies aren’t able to adhere to SEPA by the legally
prescribed deadline, they risk a liquidity squeeze and costs
because of wrong or late settled payments,” Thiele said. “A
true final spurt is needed in Germany.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  