-- ECB Excess Liquidity Declines Below 200 Billion Euros
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-10-24T09:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/ecb-excess-liquidity-declines-below-200-billion-euros.html
The amount of  surplus funds  in the
euro-area’s financial system fell below a threshold once set by
the  European Central Bank  as the lower boundary of accommodative
monetary policy.  Excess liquidity in the euro-area financial system, or the
cash not directly required for a smooth operation of money
markets, fell to 187 billion euros ($258 billion) yesterday,
data published by the Frankfurt-based ECB today show. That’s the
lowest level since Dec. 13, 2011 and the first time excess
liquidity has fallen below 200 billion euros since the ECB
issued more than 1 trillion euros in 3-year loans almost two
years ago to prevent a credit crunch.  Falling liquidity levels can push up the cost of funding
for banks, a prospect ECB President  Mario Draghi  said last month
he’d be “particularly attentive” to. Still, Draghi has played
down a February claim that surplus funds above the 200 billion-euro mark confirm that ECB policy is supporting the economy.  He said in September that the threshold depends on the
state of fragmentation in financial markets. Short-term money-market rates should stay slightly above the deposit rate,
currently at zero, as long as excess liquidity remains above a
level “estimated to be in the range of 100 billion euros to 200
billion euros,” the ECB said in July.  As the recovery in the 17-nation euro-area strengthens, the
ECB has repeated that it is ready to act against rising interest
rates in money markets that could endanger the recovery. The
rate banks charge each other overnight, or Eonia, stood at 0.09
percent yesterday. In its refinancing operations, the ECB
provides funds against 0.5 percent interest.  Excess liquidity, defined as the difference between the sum
of overnight deposits and current-account holdings, and  reserve
requirements  and emergency borrowing reached a peak of 813
billion euros in March 2012. The figure has fallen steadily as
banks pay back the 3-year loans early.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  