-- Ecclestone Says Vettel’s F-1 Dominance Isn’t Hurting TV Ratings
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-10-24T01:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/ecclestone-says-vettel-s-f-1-dominance-isn-t-hurting-tv-ratings.html
Sebastian Vettel’s dominance of
Formula One, which has provoked jeers from  Belgium  to Singapore,
isn’t eroding television audience ratings, according to series
Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone .  Vettel, who won the last five races with Red Bull Racing,
can secure a fourth straight championship on Oct. 27 in New
Delhi with a top-five finish. After  Michael Schumacher  clinched
the 2002 title with six races left, TV ratings fell by one-third
in parts of Europe and Formula One changed rules on qualifying
and point scoring.  There is “four to five times” as much overtaking in
Formula One today compared with Schumacher’s era, and its
average global race audience of about 50 million has had only a
“very marginal” fall this season, according to Kevin Alavy,
managing director of New York-based Mediabrands’s  Futures Sport
+ Entertainment . Fans are continuing to watch in case Vettel
loses, according to Ecclestone.  “It’s a bit like with  Roger Federer  or  Muhammad Ali ,”
Ecclestone said in an interview. “Vettel is the best there is
and people want to be there when he gets beat.”  Formula One, which gets about one-third of its $1.4 billion
annual income from television rights, has maintained steady
ratings over the past decade as other sports like tennis and
golf “looted” themselves by adding too many events and
suffered audience declines, Alavy said. There are 19 Grands Prix
this season, compared with 17 in 2002.  New Fans  To be sure, the series has struggled to win new fans
outside its European heartland. It had falling television
audiences in China,  Russia  and the U.S. last season, according
to Formula One’s internal broadcast report.  Vettel, 26, is seeking to join his fellow German Schumacher
and Juan Manuel Fangio of Argentina in winning four
championships in a row, and he’d be the youngest to achieve the
feat. Schumacher won a record seven titles during his career.  Some fans jeered Vettel’s victories at the Belgian and
Italian Grands Prix. After spectators did the same at the next
race in Singapore, which he won by more than half a minute,
Vettel blamed a group of Ferrari loyalists supporting  Fernando Alonso , his nearest challenger for the championship.  Mercedes driver  Lewis Hamilton  said after the Oct. 6 race
in  South Korea  that he felt sorry for fans because Vettel’s
supremacy reminded him of when he used to go to sleep during
races that Schumacher led from start to finish, the  Daily
Telegraph  reported.  Japan Victory  Vettel said four days later in Suzuka, Japan, that his
dominance this season isn’t close to Schumacher’s: his Red Bull
car’s “cushion” during the Korean race was between three and
six seconds, and an error causing a locked wheel would have
blown his advantage, he said. Schumacher’s 2002 Ferrari was able
to build a lead of as much as 1 minute, according to Vettel.  In the most recent race, Vettel recovered from third at
Suzuka to secure his ninth victory in 15 Grands Prix so far this
year. After starting in second place behind teammate  Mark Webber , he slipped back as  Romain Grosjean  of Lotus catapulted
into the lead. Vettel passed Grosjean on the 40th of 53 laps and
took the lead when Webber made a pit stop.  Ecclestone said Vettel may be better than Schumacher and
Brazil’s Ayrton Senna, the three-time champion who died in a
1994 racing accident.  “It’s difficult to be sure who is the best,” Ecclestone
said. “People don’t know how many titles Senna would have won,
but Vettel is probably the best we’ve had. People complain about
him winning everything but the racing is good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  