-- Legg Mason’s Brandywine Shuns China for European Junk Bonds
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-10-24T07:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/legg-mason-s-brandywine-shuns-china-for-european-junk-bonds-1-.html
Brandywine Global Investment
Management LLC, a unit of Legg Mason Inc., is avoiding Chinese
high-yield debt in favor of bonds from  Europe , which economists
bet will return to growth after five quarters of contraction.  About 35 percent of a global high-yield bond fund run by
Brandywine is invested in Europe, according to Brian Kloss, a
Philadelphia-based  money manager  at the company, which manages
about $48 billion. The fund owns no debt from mainland  China , he
said during an interview today in Hong Kong, where the
investment product isn’t available to retail clients.  “Europe is probably close to bottoming and that should
tend to bode well for credit going forward,” Kloss said. The
fund’s  Asia  holdings “will increase, but Europe will increase
first,” he said.  European gross domestic product likely grew 0.06 percent
from a year earlier in the three months through September,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China is targeting 7.5
percent annual expansion this year, the slowest since 1990, as
leaders try to rebalance the world’s No. 2 economy from being
reliant on exports to being powered by domestic consumption.  Although Brandywine currently has a bias toward northern
Europe and the U.K., it is starting to look at some of the
region’s poorer-performing economies, Kloss said. The asset
manager is considering investing in Portuguese sovereign bonds
and already has some Italian assets, he said.  The investor is also “reconsidering”  Indonesia  after
selling most of its holdings a few years ago. U.S. dollar-denominated notes from the country’s issuers  gained  5.25 percent
last month, the most in almost two years, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes show.  Brandywine, which was founded more than 25 years ago,
allocates about 5 percent of its global high-yield debt fund to
Asia, Kloss said. While the asset manager doesn’t own Chinese
notes, it has exposure to the nation though Singaporean and
Malaysian technology companies with operations in China.  “We want to see a more developed  bond market , with more
players being active in it so there’s better liquidity,” Kloss
said on regional allocation. “If we can have more comfort in
China, then I think we can have more comfort in taking the Asian
exposure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  