-- Telkom CFO’s $610,000 Stock Purchase Alerted to Regulator
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-10-24T13:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/telkom-cfo-s-610-000-stock-purchase-alerted-to-regulator.html
A trade in  Telkom SA SOC Ltd. (TKG)  stock
by Chief Financial Officer Jacques Schindehutte has been
referred to  South Africa ’s Financial Services Board’s Department
of Market Abuse by the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange , according to
the FSB department’s head Solly Keetse.  Keetse declined to comment further because the matter was
confidential. A call to Schindehutte’s mobile phone didn’t
connect. Telkom spokesman Pynee Chetty declined to comment by
phone and couldn’t provide further contact details for
Schindehutte.  Telkom, Africa’s largest fixed-line operator, suspended
Schindehutte following the outcome of an investigation into
unspecified allegations made against him, the Pretoria-based
company said in a statement today.  “The board of directors is determined to act responsibly
and to uphold all governance requirements,” Chief Executive
Officer Sipho Maseko said in a separate e-mailed statement. The
company isn’t able to provide further information, he said.  Schindehutte bought 5.96 million rand ($610,000) of Telkom
stock at 24.45 rand per share on Sept. 30, Telkom said Oct. 2.
The shares gained 4.2 percent on Oct. 8, when the company said
first-half earnings rose more than 20 percent.  Schindehutte told  Techcentral.co.za  he didn’t have market-sensitive information that hadn’t already been made public when
he made the trade, the Johannesburg-based website reported
today. The trade was approved by both Maseko and the chairman of
the company, Schindehutte said.  Peter Redman, technical adviser at the JSE’s surveillance
unit, wasn’t available for comment when a call was made to his
office. Shaun Davies, the JSE’s director of market regulation,
declined to comment in an e-mailed response to questions.  John
Burke , the JSE’s director of listings, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  