-- Emaar Profit Surges as Dubai’s Biggest Developer Rides Rebound
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-10-24T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/emaar-profit-surges-as-dubai-s-biggest-developer-rides-rebound.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the
skyscraper builder that accounts for about a fifth of Dubai’s
main stock index, said third-quarter profit increased by 50
percent amid growing signs that the desert sheikhdom’s property
crisis is receding.  Net income rose to 581 million dirhams ($158 million), or
10 fils a share, from 387 million dirhams, or 6 fils, a year
earlier, as recurring income from assets like shopping malls
climbed, the Dubai-based company said in a statement yesterday.
The average of six analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was
for earnings of 389 million dirhams.  Emaar, builder of the world’s tallest tower and the biggest
shopping mall by floor space, was at the center of Dubai’s real-estate driven rise and fall at the end of the last decade. Now
the emirate’s biggest developer is seeing rising profits as a
surge in  home prices  followed a rebound in hotel visitors and
shopping tourists.  “These results are strong and should support the stock’s
performance,” Taher Safieddine, an analyst at Shuaa Capital PSC
with a buy recommendation on the stock and a price estimate of
7.01 dirhams, said in a note to clients. Emaar’s main real
estate markets, residential, hospitality and retail, “continue
to build on the healthy recovery seen in recent months.”  Home values, which climbed at the fastest pace in the world
in the second quarter, stoked concern that the market may be
overheating, prompting the emirate’s government to double
property transaction fees as it tries to rein in the
speculators.  Steadier Growth  Property price increases will slow down over the next 12
months after the return of speculators sparked “unsustainable”
gains, Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. said on Oct. 3. Earlier this
month, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said concerns that a property
bubble is forming are exaggerated as new regulations focused on
curbing speculation and increasing supply will keep values down.  Construction driven by borrowing and speculation made Dubai
into the world’s fastest-growing property market in the years
leading up to 2008. The credit crisis hit near the end of that
year, causing home prices to fall by as much as 65 percent and
driving the emirate to the brink of bankruptcy.  While Emaar’s  profit tumbled  in the two years through 2009,
it avoided net losses that many of its peers suffered. That’s
partly because some of its biggest projects, including the Dubai
Mall and the Burj Khalifa skyscraper, were finished or near
completion when the market collapsed.  Recovery Incomplete  Real estate values are still 36 percent below their 2008
peak even after rising by about a third from a low in the second
quarter of 2011, Goldman Sachs said.  Emaar said third-quarter revenue climbed 43 percent to 2.35
billion dirhams from a year earlier. The cost of sales rose 48
percent to 1.2 billion dirhams.  “The results are likely to be received very well by the
market as they show sustained growth in Emaar’s recurring
revenues and strong real estate deliveries in local and
international markets,” said Jan Pawel Hasman, a Cairo-based
analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “The only negative aspect is
the selling, general and administrative expenses, which continue
to climb.”  The expense figure climbed 18 percent to 589 million
dirhams in the quarter, Emaar said in the earnings statement.  The bulk of the 1.1 billion dirhams in property sales in
the third quarter may have come from the sale of completed
inventory in Dubai, Shuaa said. Land sales may also account for
some of the revenue.  Malls, Hotels  Revenue from malls, hotels and leisure accounted for 44
percent of Emaar’s total income of 3.3 billion dirhams in the
first nine months of this year after the company shifted its
focus away from building and selling homes. International
operations contributed 10 percent of the total, it said. Emaar
has businesses in countries including  Egypt , Turkey and  India .  Revenue from malls and hotels climbed 22 percent in the
third quarter to 1.03 billion dirhams, Shuaa estimated.  Emaar is benefiting from rising rental income. Revenue from
malls climbed 26 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, while revenue from hotels including the Armani Hotel in
the Burj Khalifa, Shuaa estimated.  The earnings were published after the close of trading in
Dubai. Emaar has jumped 63 percent this year compared with a 79
percent surge for the  Dubai Financial Market General Index. (DFMGI) 
Emaar closed 0.3 percent higher on Oct. 24 at 6.1 dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  