-- Emirates NBD Misses Estimates as Bad Loan Provisions Climb
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-10-24T12:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/emirates-nbd-misses-estimates-as-provisions-for-bad-loans-climb.html
Emirates NBD PJSC, (EMIRATES)  Dubai’s biggest
bank, reported a 21 percent increase in third-quarter profit,
missing analyst estimates, as provisions for bad loans climbed.  Net income rose to 776 million dirhams ($211 million) from
640 million dirhams a year earlier, the state-controlled bank
 said  in a statement today. The mean estimate of five analysts
was for a profit of 923 million dirhams, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Impairment provisions jumped 50 percent
from a year ago to 1.52 billion dirhams and now cover 54.8
percent of bad loans compared with 48 percent a year ago. The
bank’s full-year target is to cover 55 percent to 60 percent.  The impairment charge primarily includes “conservative
specific provisions made in relation to the bank’s corporate and
Islamic financing portfolios,” Emirates NBD said. “Going
forward the bank aims to keep improving the coverage ratios.”  Emirates NBD, which hired Standard Chartered Plc’s Shayne Nelson to replace  Rick Pudner  as chief executive officer, is
recovering from the global credit crisis, which slowed lending,
hurt  investment banking  and led to a surge in loan-loss charges
as defaults rose. Dubai’s economy, the second-biggest in the
 United Arab Emirates , is set to expand 4.6 percent on average
from 2012 to 2015, more than twice as fast in the prior four
years, according to government forecasts.  Shares of Emirates NBD have almost doubled this year and
fell 0.7 percent to 5.65 dirhams today in Dubai.  NPLs Ratio  Emirates NBD is one of the biggest lenders to investment
company Dubai Group LLC, which is in talks with lenders to delay
payments on $6 billion of debt. The bank’s ratio of non-performing loans to total loans worsened to 14.1 percent in the
third quarter from 13.9 percent in the preceding three months
mainly because of a 1.1 billion-dirham increase in impaired
loans in the bank’s Islamic corporate portfolio, it said.  The bank will target a non-performing loans ratio of 12
percent over the next two years compared with this year’s
guidance of 14 percent to 15 percent and plans to boost
provisions to cover 80 percent of bad loans, Chief Financial
Officer Surya Subramanian said on a conference call today.  Net interest margin, or the difference between what the
bank earns on assets such as loans and what it pays on
liabilities such as deposits, is expected to be from 2.55
percent to 2.65 percent in 2013, the company said.  Economic Recovery  The U.A.E.’s economic recovery is helping improve profit at
banks.  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) , the country’s fourth-biggest lender, yesterday reported a better-than-expected 47
percent jump in third-quarter profit to 874.2 million dirhams as
non-interest income surged and provisions for loan losses fell.  Lending is expected to increase by 6 percent to 7 percent
in 2014, Pudner said on the conference call today.  Bank lending in the U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab
economy, rose 6.4 percent in the year through July, according to
central bank data. That compares with a 15 percent increase in
lending to the private sector in August in  Saudi Arabia , the
largest Arab economy, and a 13 percent advance in domestic
lending in gas-rich Qatar in September.  Emirates NBD this year completed the acquisition of BNP
Paribas SA’s Egyptian unit in a $500 million deal to gain access
to the most populous Arab country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  