-- Eneva Said to Be in Talks to Avert Early Debt Payment
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i ,   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-10-25T16:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/eneva-said-to-be-in-talks-to-avert-early-debt-payment.html
Eneva SA (ENEV3) , the Brazilian utility
controlled by  Germany ’s EON SE and  Eike Batista , is in talks
with banks and partners to avoid redemption of $300 million of
debt owed by a natural gas company it owns with the former
billionaire, said three people with knowledge of the talks.  Eneva is seeking accords with creditors of OGX Maranhao
Petroleo & Gas SA, in which Eneva has a 33 percent stake, to
forego early payment rights that may be triggered if Batista’s
 OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas Participacoes SA enters into default, the
people said, asking not to be named because discussions are
private. The company formerly known as MPX Energia is also in
talks with prospective buyers of OGX’s stake in the venture and
may acquire the remaining shares itself, they said.  Eneva is attempting to disentangle itself from OGX’s
collapse after Dusseldorf-based EON starting buying shares from
Batista in January 2012 to gain a foothold in  Brazil  as profits
at home declined. At the time, Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen described German-speaking Batista as “one of the most
successful businessmen in Brazil” and MPX as an ideal partner.  EON became Eneva’s largest holder on May 29 and increased
its stake in a private placement on July 4, three days after OGX
said it would probably have to shut its only producing oil
field, and Batista was replaced as Eneva chairman.  Eneva declined to comment on its plans for Maranhao in an
e-mailed response to questions. EON is monitoring all relevant
developments at Eneva, spokesman Guido Knott said by e-mail,
declining to comment on the venture’s businesses with OGX. EON
and Batista continue to jointly control Eneva through a
shareholder agreement, he said.  Looming Default  Eneva shares slumped 8.1 percent, the most in almost four
months, to 4.32 reais at 1:54 p.m. in  Sao Paulo , extending a
year-to-date decline to 60 percent. Brazil’s benchmark equity
index is down 11 percent this year.  OGX, the centerpiece of Batista’s commodities empire,
missed an Oct. 1 interest payment on $1.1 billion of bonds,
triggering a 30-day grace period. The Rio de Janeiro-based
company is also considering filing for  bankruptcy protection 
later this month or early next, two people briefed on the plans
said. Either of those events could trigger cross-default clauses
in the debt of affiliated companies such as the gas venture with
Eneva, the people said.  Maranhao, in which OGX holds a 66 percent stake, has at
least 600 million reais ($300 million) of outstanding debt. The
company has a 70 percent stake in seven gas blocks at Brazil’s
Parnaiba basin in partnership with Petra Energia SA.  Units of Banco Itau BBA and Banco Santander SA each lent
200 million reais to Maranhao, while Morgan Stanley issued a 200
million-real loan, according to the company filings.  ‘Natural’ Interest  Eneva is negotiating with banks to try to avert debt
redemption and with Petra and other partners to seek a buyer for
OGX’s stake in Maranhao, the people said. EON and Eneva could
also buy OGX’s stake, thereby nullifying the cross-default
clauses, two people said. Petra is another prospective buyer,
one person said.  Grupo BTG Pactual, the investment bank controlled by
billionaire  Andre Esteves , acquired 28.2 million Eneva shares
for $78.7 million, Eneva said Sept. 6. Batista still holds a 24
percent stake.  Eneva said on Sep. 24 that as a minority holder in
Maranhao, it would be “natural” for the company to be
interested in the remaining shares. The utility has first option
to buy shares in the venture, according to a regulatory filing.
The company had nothing to announce, it said in response to a
regulatory query after O Globo newspaper reported Aug. 21 that
OGX may sell its stake in the Parnaiba gas blocks.  Itau, Santander and Morgan Stanley declined to comment.  Batista is seeking 1.2 billion reais for his remaining 24
percent stake in Eneva, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the talks. Potential buyers have balked at the
asking price because of concern over cross-default risk at
Maranhao, said one person familiar with the talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  