-- Eric Holder Finally Gets Tough on Banks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-10-24T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/eric-holder-finally-gets-tough-on-banks.html
See if you can make sense of this.
Somehow, in the space of seven months, U.S. Attorney General
Eric Holder has gone from being:  1) the defeatist law-enforcement chief who told the Senate
Judiciary Committee that some banks are  too big to prosecute 
because of the economic damage that might ensue, to  2) the crackdown artist who presided over a meeting in
which his team told  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon  that the bank would need to enter a guilty plea in
order to end a criminal investigation by prosecutors in
 California .  What gives? Maybe Holder will let JPMorgan skate once the
probe is completed. Yet clearly a new approach is afoot. After
that meeting, the Justice Department proposed that JPMorgan
plead guilty to making false statements related to sales of
defective mortgage bonds. The bank proposed a nonprosecution
agreement, which Holder rejected, according to an Oct. 22
 article  by  Bloomberg News .  Not long ago, large banks could be fairly confident they
wouldn’t face  criminal charges  in the U.S. no matter what they
got caught doing. Now the Justice Department is keeping the
threat of such charges hanging over JPMorgan while the bank
wraps up $13 billion in civil  settlements  with various
government agencies.  New Aggressiveness  Holder said in an interview that the department’s new
aggressiveness on bank investigations was a top priority for
both President  Barack Obama  and himself. (Holder didn’t talk
about JPMorgan specifically.) Obama promised in his 2012  State
of the Union  address to hold banks accountable for their role in
helping cause the worst recession since the Great Depression. A
 task force  was set up, and it played a significant role in the
pending JPMorgan deal.  Other important questions remain unanswered. For instance,
what about before 2012? Why did the Justice Department do so
little to go after banks during Obama’s first term?  Here is one way to look at it: For about five years, there
were entire categories of wrongdoing by large financial-services
companies that were all but deemed exempt from criminal
prosecution. We’ve never gotten a satisfactory explanation from
anyone in the government as to why.  But it wouldn’t be a surprise if someday we learned that a
conscious policy decision was made during the Obama
administration’s early days that aggressive investigations of
too-big-to-fail banks and their senior executives would be
contrary to the national interest because of the threat that
 prosecutions  posed to financial stability and the economic
recovery.  Even if this isn’t what happened, the White House and
 Justice Department  must know this is the outward impression they
created by their unexplained inaction. What’s more, the facade
of trying to look tough while doing almost nothing was coming
undone. In August, for example, the Justice Department admitted
to grossly  inflating  how many mortgage-fraud prosecutions it had
brought in years past.  A crucial difference between now and when Obama took office
is that the stock market has  rebounded  and the financial-services industry has stabilized after much help from the
government, especially the  Federal Reserve . Even so, public
anger over the lack of accountability has failed to subside, and
cynicism about Wall Street’s pull in  Washington  has skyrocketed.
The government didn’t want to be seen as giving the banking
industry a pass.  So the administration had to come up with new, creative
ways of holding the country’s banks to account. The largest ones
seem healthy enough again to withstand government attacks. Yet
the five-year statute of limitations for many fraud cases has
elapsed. This, of course, presented a problem for the Justice
Department, which had to be a bit more inventive than normal.  Strange Creature  One of the department’s favorite new tools has been a once-obscure  statute  called the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, which was passed in
response to the 1980s savings-and-loan crisis. Federal
prosecutors in  New York  used the act, known as Firrea, to win
their jury  verdict  this week in a civil trial against  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)   The law, which has a 10-year statute of limitations, lets
prosecutors file civil claims for violations of criminal mail-fraud and wire-fraud statutes that affect “a federally insured
financial institution.” It is a strange creature that has led
to some odd outcomes.  In the case against Bank of America, prosecutors accused
the company of defrauding  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . Those two
entities don’t take federally insured deposits. Nonetheless, in
an August  ruling , U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said the case
could proceed on the grounds that Bank of America is a federally
insured financial institution and that any fraud it may have
committed would have affected itself.  That reasoning may follow the letter of the statute, but it
isn’t an intuitive basis for a lawsuit. Plus, if the government
believes criminal laws were broken, why pursue only civil
claims? Maybe it’s because even on their best days, prosecutors
seem interested mainly in easy wins for which the burden of
proof is low.  We have yet to see what violations the Justice Department
will cite in its civil settlement with JPMorgan. Another Firrea
case may be possible. The Justice Department filed a second
Firrea  lawsuit  against Bank of America in August and, as
Bloomberg News reported this week, Bank of America faces  three 
other Firrea probes across the country. Several other large
banks, including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Credit Suisse, are
contending with Firrea investigations, too.  Prosecutors also used Firrea in their February lawsuit
against  Standard & Poor’s . In that case, the government alleged
that Citigroup was duped by S&P credit ratings on subprime
mortgage bonds that Citigroup itself created and sold. Bank of
America, too, allegedly was “affected” by S&P’s ratings in the
same way. The theory is bizarre at first glance. But for now,
the law seems to be on the Justice Department’s side.  There is no telling what great things U.S. prosecutors
might have accomplished had Holder and his team been this
determined and creative all along, before the  biggest  fraud
cases of the financial crisis turned cold.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 