-- Ericsson Profit Margin Falls Short as Rivals Weigh on Sales
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-10-24T11:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/ericsson-profit-misses-estimates-as-competition-weighs-on-sales.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the largest maker of
wireless-network equipment, reported a profit margin that missed
analysts’ estimates as competition intensified and carriers
slowed investments. The stock slumped.  Third-quarter gross margin, a key measure of profitability,
was 32 percent, Stockholm-based Ericsson said today. Analysts
predicted 33.4 percent, the average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales fell 2.9 percent to 53 billion kronor ($8.3
billion), trailing the average  projection  of 54.3 billion
kronor, and were also hurt by currency swings.  Business slowed in the U.S. and  Japan  where projects to
make wireless carriers’ networks speedier are nearing
completion. Margins are under pressure as the company tries to
fend off competition from China’s Huawei Technologies Co. and
Finnish  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s networks business.  “The projects that peaked in the first half in  North
America  are starting to have an effect,” said Fredrik Thoresen,
an analyst at DNB ASA in Oslo with a hold rating on the stock.
Slowing sales in North America, a high-margin region for
Ericsson, bring down its profitability, he said.  Ericsson  fell  as much as 8.1 percent, the biggest intraday
decline in almost two years, and dropped 7.2 percent to 78.2
kronor at 1:10 p.m. in  Stockholm , wiping out $3.1 billion in
value. The stock had gained 29 percent this year through
yesterday.  Sales ‘Pressure’  Third-quarter net income of 2.92 billion kronor missed the
3.07 billion kronor average analyst estimate. Profit rose 34
percent from the year-earlier period, helped by lower costs and
the company exiting an unprofitable chip venture with
 STMicroelectronics NV. (STM)   Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  is estimated to report a third-quarter
net loss widening to 233 million euros from 146 million euros a
year earlier, according to eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Alcatel is scheduled to report earnings Oct. 31.  Michel Combes , the Paris-based competitor’s chief executive
officer, is accelerating plans to scale down, including selling
assets. While Nokia Oyj is said to be considering buying
Alcatel’s wireless network-equipment business, Ericsson CEO  Hans Vestberg  said today in an interview he’s not interested.  Network revenue, which makes up half of Ericsson’s sales,
fell less than 1 percent to 26.7 billion kronor. Sales from
global services declined about 1.3 percent to 24 billion kronor.  Projects Peaked  “We are currently seeing sales coming under some
pressure,” Vestberg said in a statement. Two large projects in
North America peaked in the first half, and a major project in
Japan is close to completion, he said.  In  Europe , business is picking up with investments in
faster networks, Vestberg said. Ericsson sees growth in several
European markets and margins are also improving as network-modernization deals, which demand more labor hours and are often
less profitable, are ending and business shifts toward more
lucrative capacity projects, he said.  Modernization contracts led to Ericsson’s gross margin
falling to 30.2 percent in 2011, the lowest since at least 1989.  Rising Competition  Wireless carriers are improving their networks to
accommodate the rapid rise of smartphones and tablets. Ericsson
has 36 percent of the world’s wireless-infrastructure market,
ahead of Huawei’s 22 percent, based on data from Barclays Plc.  Huawei,  China ’s largest maker of phone equipment, said in
February it is targeting a 9 percent increase in revenue this
year for its division that designs and builds wireless networks.
The unit had sales of $25.7 billion in 2012.  The Shenzen-based company, already near Ericsson in
development spending, is boosting its research budget this year
to improve mobile and fixed-network performance as well as audio
and video transmissions, Li Yingtao, its head of R&D, said in a
July interview.  “There’s a tremendous shift in technology and services,”
Vestberg said in the interview. “It’s crucial to have a high
level of R&D and to be efficient. We need to be the most
innovative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  