-- Tesco’s Fresh & Easy Wins Approval of Sale Procedures
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-10-24T18:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/tesco-s-fresh-easy-wins-approval-of-sale-procedures.html
Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Market
Inc.,  the U.S. supermarket chain owned by  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , won court
approval of procedures for a Nov. 19 auction with the lead bid
from an affiliate of billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey, at a hearing today in
Wilmington,  Delaware , said he would approve guidelines that will
govern the proposed sale, which would save about 4,000
employees’ jobs.  All potential buyers must submit an offer by Nov. 15. The
company would hold the auction if it receives a competing
qualified bid, followed by a Nov. 21 hearing to seek court
approval of the auction winner.  Under the proposed deal, a Tesco affiliate would lend the
Yucaipa unit $120 million to help fund the acquisition,
according to court papers. Tesco would get warrants to buy as
much as 10 percent of the equity in the reorganized chain. Fresh
& Easy would get 22.5 percent of the equity in the reorganized
chain if the Yucaipa affiliate’s offer prevails.  The Yucaipa buyer also has offered to take on some of Fresh
& Easy’s liabilities. The liabilities are valued at about $130
million in court papers and may exceed $200 million, according
to Lisa Laukitis, a lawyer for Fresh & Easy.  Yucaipa has agreed to take over about 150 of the markets
along with its production facility in Riverside,  California ,
where the company produces meals under the Fresh & Easy brand.
The company operates 167 stores in the western U.S.  Tesco Debt  Fresh & Easy said it owes $738 million to Cheshunt,
England-based Tesco, the U.K.’s biggest retailer. The unit never
made a profit and lost an average of $22 million a month in the
12 months ended in February, according to court papers.  The supermarket chain sought  bankruptcy protection  Sept. 30
listing debt of as much as $1 billion and assets of as much as
$500 million in a court filing.  Fresh & Easy blamed its failure on the economic downturn
that began in 2008, especially falling real estate prices in
California, Nevada and  Arizona . To build the chain quickly in
2006 and 2007, the height of the U.S. real estate boom, Tesco
spent $610 million.  The case is In re Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Market Inc.,
13-bk-12569,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  