-- Tesla to Avoid U.S. Probe of Model S Post-Crash Fire
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-10-25T01:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/tesla-to-avoid-u-s-probe-of-model-s-post-crash-fire.html
Elon Musk’s  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the
best-performing U.S. auto stock this year, got a double dose of
good news as U.S. officials chose not to probe a Model S battery
fire and California deferred changes to a state program that
would pare Tesla’s revenue from green-car credits.  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration , in a
statement, said today it found no evidence that the fire on a
 Washington  state highway resulted from a Model S defect or
violations of U.S. safety standards. The luxury car struck metal
debris that pierced its lithium-ion battery pack, according to
state officials and Tesla.  “We have a six-millimeter thick armor plate on the bottom
of the car,” Musk said today in a Bloomberg Television
interview. The debris “punched through that armor plate into
the battery pack and crushed several of the battery cells. It
took several minutes, but a few of those cells caught fire.”  Reports of the Oct. 1 fire, the first such incident
involving a Tesla vehicle, triggered a 10 percent drop in the
company’s shares over two days, reflecting concern the issue
might tarnish the automaker. Tesla, already the biggest seller
of premium battery-powered cars, has soared fivefold this year
after posting its first quarterly profit, repaying a U.S. loan
nine years early and expanding Model S sales to  Europe  and  Asia .  The federal safety agency didn’t send investigators to the
scene of the Oct. 1 fire because it was the first day of a 16-day U.S. government shutdown. After consulting with the company,
regulators decided not to begin an investigation, which can lead
to recalls.  Tesla Shares  Agency Administrator  David Strickland  on Oct. 22 said NHTSA
was “gathering data” on the fire, which destroyed the Model S.
Tesla fell as much as 3.8 percent after his remarks.  Alexis Georgeson, a spokeswoman for  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla, had no immediate comment on the agency’s decision
not to further investigate the incident.  Tesla  rose  5.3 percent to $173.15 today in  New York , up
from $33.87 at the end of last year. The agency’s announcement
on the fire came after the close of regular trading.  Regulators formally investigated fires in two other
battery-powered vehicles,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Volt
and Fisker Automotive Inc.’s Karma. Both of those inquiries led
to recalls.  In the Oct. 1 incident, the lithium-ion battery in the
Model S caught fire after the car collided with a large metallic
object on a road in Kent, south of Seattle, Tesla has said.
Chief Executive Officer Musk, who’s also Tesla’s biggest
 shareholder , defended the car’s safety in an Oct. 5 blog post,
saying it was an unusual crash that would have resulted in a
fire in a gasoline-fueled car as well.  California Decision  Earlier today,  California ’s Air Resources Board delayed a
decision on a change to the state’s strict zero-emission vehicle
program that would have reduced the amount of ZEV credits Tesla
earns from sales in the most-populous U.S. state.  The board is considering whether Tesla’s proposed system of
swapping battery packs as a way to repower its Model S meets a
“fast refuel” requirement that currently earns the car a
maximum of seven ZEV credits. The change would reduce the
maximum for the electric car to four of the tradable credits.  Tesla reported $119 million in sales of such credits
through the first half of this year, or 12 percent of its
revenue. That helped the carmaker named for inventor Nikola Tesla post net income of $11.2 million for the first quarter.  The carmaker is the biggest seller of the California
credits, according to an annual tally released last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Koenig  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net . 