-- EU Leaders Use Summit to Signal No New Euro-Area Bank Backstops
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2013-10-24T14:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/eu-leaders-use-summit-to-signal-no-new-euro-area-bank-backstops.html
European Union leaders will line up
behind old plans to safeguard the banking system at a meeting in
Brussels, ahead of the  European Central Bank ’s assessment of
euro-area lenders that starts next month.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  underscored the urgency of
the issue, saying he’s not convinced all euro countries will
have sufficient backstops in place to handle capital shortfalls
uncovered by the ECB-led assessments.  “Countries should use all necessary means to prepare their
national systems, so if serious issues come out of the bank
reviews they can be addressed,” Rutte told reporters before a
two-day summit in Brussels that begins at 5 p.m. today. The
Netherlands is ready, “but that’s not the case with all my
European colleagues,” he said.  EU leaders last year sought to break the link between
struggling banks and the euro zone’s sovereign-debt crisis by
handing the ECB supervisory powers over banks in the 17-nation
currency bloc. Once the new oversight regime is in place and
“effective,” countries may be able to ask the European
Stability Mechanism, the euro firewall fund, to help lenders
directly. For now, those resources remain walled off.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  will address leaders tonight on
the central bank’s plans and reinforce his calls for a
systematic backstop. Draghi warned yesterday that “banks do
need to fail” to prove the credibility of the exercise, so
countries need to plan how they will respond.  ‘Comprehensive’ Resource  At the summit, EU leaders are leaning toward a bare-bones
endorsement of existing financial-system safeguards, after
earlier considering calls for a “comprehensive” European
resource for failing lenders. As of late yesterday, nations had
discarded broad wording in favor of an itemized list of where
nations can turn if their banks need capital faster than private
markets can provide it.  The leaders will call for a “coordinated European
approach” to preparing for the ECB-led bank tests. “Member
states should make all appropriate arrangements, including
national backstops, applying state-aid rules,” according to
draft summit conclusions dated Oct. 23 and obtained by  Bloomberg
News . “European instruments are available according to their
agreed rules.”  Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said countries will
need to put their own houses in order rather than look to the
ESM. Plans to allow direct bank aid from the fund remain on hold
as the ECB prepares its reviews.  Three-Stage Probe  “We have decided that all the countries should put their
own national backstops in place and we have wanted to underline
that it is private sector’s responsibility to solve their own
problems,” Katainen said. “That’s why I do hope that we will
continue with the line we adopted last June.”  The ECB is running a three-stage probe into the health of
the euro-area banking industry that will examine about 130
banks, using a benchmark capital-to-assets requirement of 8
percent. A series of stress tests, which pit the banks’ balance
sheets against a range of adverse scenarios, will be conducted
with the European Banking Authority as the final step in that
process.  Draghi has clashed with the Brussels-based European
Commission over how to handle private investors if a bank needs
more capital on a “precautionary” basis. EU state-aid rules
adopted in August bar banks from accessing public aid until they
force losses on junior bondholders.  Assessment Timetable  In a July letter to EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , Draghi said EU rules need to be clarified so regulators
won’t scare off investors if they order technically solvent
banks to strengthen their balance sheets. Draghi said public
capital needs to be available -- without wiping out subordinated
debt holders or forcing them to convert to equity -- if a bank’s
holdings are above regulatory minimums and also below what
supervisors deem necessary in a particular case.  Almunia responded that the ECB’s assessment timetable will
allow banks to raise capital in advance if they foresee
potential shortfalls. The competition chief defended the
guidelines as implemented and regulators could deviate from the
rules in “exceptional” cases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Brussels at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  