-- Europe Anger at U.S. Spying Ignores Fact Everyone Does It
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   A l l a n   H o l m e s
-- 2013-10-24T15:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/europe-anger-at-u-s-spying-ignores-fact-everyone-does-it.html
European anger at reports that the
U.S. has conducted surveillance of allies’ telephone calls and
e-mails glosses over a basic truth, former intelligence
officials say: everyone does it.  “All governments collect information on nearly all
governments,” said John McLaughlin, a former acting director of
the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, said in a phone interview.
“The posture of most governments is, ‘We want to collect as
much info as we can, so we can be as fluent as we can when we
make decisions.’ It’s just what governments do.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has been dogged
this week by a series of disclosures detailing allegations of
U.S. surveillance of German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s private
mobile phone, of former Mexican President Felipe Calderon’s e-mail while in office, and of the collection of data on ordinary
French citizens.  The leaks, all traced to documents stolen by fugitive
security contractor Edward Snowden, led Obama to call Merkel
yesterday to assure her the U.S. government “is not monitoring
and will not monitor the communications of the chancellor,”
White House press secretary Jay Carney said at a briefing in
 Washington . The statement didn’t address whether Merkel’s mobile
phone may have been monitored sometime in the past.  Earlier Complaints  Complaints from Europe and  Mexico  about surveillance echo
those from  Brazil . Last month, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff canceled a state visit to Washington after revelations
that the National Security Agency had monitored her e-mail and
telephone exchanges with top aides.  U.S. surveillance activities, both foreign and domestic,
spiked after the Sept. 11 attacks and have continued to expand
under Obama.  Government surveillance has a sinister resonance in Europe
and news about U.S. spying may have economic ramifications, Fran
Burwell, a vice president at the Atlantic Council, a Washington
policy group, said in a phone interview. It may complicate talks
about a trans-Atlantic trade pact and has exacerbated
longstanding tensions between the U.S. and the European Union
over privacy, she said.  A European Parliament committee this week backed draft
rules intended to toughen a 1995 privacy-protection law and
impose penalties on domestic and foreign companies that violate
it. The proposal would require companies such as Mountain View,
California-based  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to let users fully erase their
personal data and subject violators to fines of as much as the
greater of 100 million euros ($138 million) or 5 percent of
annual sales for violations.  “That legislation is now moving much more quickly than it
probably would have without that continual flow of
revelations,” Burwell said.  Typewriters Bugged  U.S. Director of National Intelligence James Clapper issued
an Oct. 22 statement saying reports that the U.S. collected more
than 70 million “recordings of French citizens’ telephone
data” were false.  “While we are not going to discuss the details of our
activities, we have repeatedly made it clear that the United
States gathers intelligence of the type gathered by all
nations,” Clapper said. Clapper didn’t acknowledge that the
scope of U.S. data and intelligence gathering far surpasses that
of its allies and enemies.  Phone Taps  Intelligence gathering has occurred throughout history. The
ancient Hebrews used spies to capture the city of Jericho,
Chinese strategist Sun Tzu extolled using subterfuge, while the
Aztecs sent people in local dress to infiltrate the enemy before
battle. In 1970s Moscow, the Soviet Union bugged 16 of the U.S.
Embassy’s IBM Selectric typewriters that were tracked by
engineers at listening posts nearby.  “I work on assumption that 6+ countries tap my phone,”
Tom Fletcher, the U.K. ambassador to Lebanon, said on a Twitter
Inc. posting today. “Increasingly rare that diplomats say
anything sensitive on calls.”  Denis MacShane, who was the U.K.’s Europe minister in
former Prime Minister Tony Blair’s Labour government, said he
was warned to expect that his mobile phone calls would be
listened to while he was in France.  “In Paris, it was generally assumed that they wanted to
know everything we were saying and thinking,” MacShane said in
a telephone interview. “I sometimes made a point of saying
things on the phone that I wanted my opposite number to hear,
U.K. government positions and so on.”  Communications scrambling equipment used in cars used by
U.K. senior ministers was so powerful, Shane said, that women
were warned not to travel in them if they were pregnant.  Dark Echoes  Even so, for Europe and particularly  Germany , the prospect
of government surveillance has dark echoes. The Nazis deployed
spies and, after World War II, the East German Stasi, or secret
police, created massive networks that had friends, families and
spouses watch and inform on each other.  “This has very bad resonance,” Burwell said. “When
Angela Merkel speaks about this, she grew up with the Stasi.”  Germany’s Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle today summoned
U.S. ambassador John Emerson to further explain the reports. On
Oct. 21, France called in the U.S. ambassador there.  While the  U.S. has close ties to both countries, they are
not part of the so-called “Five Eyes” agreement of 1946 under
which the U.S., U.K.,  Canada ,  Australia  and New Zealand share
most of their electronic intelligence.  Der Spiegel magazine reported that U.S. intelligence may
have been monitoring Merkel’s private mobile phone for years.
German authorities investigated, and gathered enough information
to confront the U.S. with the findings suggesting that Merkel’s
phone had been monitored, Spiegel said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Very Serious’  Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said today the results of
the inquiry would determine what steps Europe takes next.  “First, I want the facts on the table,” Rutte said in
Brussels. “There are strong signals that my German colleague
has been wiretapped. My view is that’s impossible, unthinkable
and very serious.”  Mobile phones are “pretty easy to exploit,” said John Pirc, research vice president at NSS Labs Inc., a cybersecurity
research and analysis firm based in Austin,  Texas . Hacking into
a smartphone is similar to breaking into a laptop or PC.  The attacker must entice the user to visit a website or
click on a hyperlink containing software that, once downloaded
onto the phone, gives the hacker control of the device. A common
way to trick the user into opening the file is for the hacker to
masquerade as someone the owner knows and trusts.  Once in the phone, the hacker can listen to conversations
or control the device’s functions, such as its camera or e-mail.  ‘Quite Alarming’  “You can have the best security in the world, but once I
am on your phone I own it,” said Pirc, who has conducted
cybersecurity research for the CIA. “It’s quite alarming how
easy it is to do this.”  If allegations about surveillance of Merkel’s phone are
true, “it was probably to make sure we understand as well as we
can where she stands on certain issues so we can have a more
productive relationship,” McLaughlin said. “It’s not out of a
sense of hostility or curiosity about people’s private lives.”  Another intelligence official, who asked for anonymity
because he wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter, said allies
spy on each other all the time. Pointing to  France ’s angry
reaction to this week’s reports, he said he wished he knew the
French word for chutzpah -- a Yiddish word that means nerve or
audacity.  Doing Same  He said France is among the most active countries when it
comes to spying on allies and non-allies alike.  Given the elevated threat of terrorist attacks in Europe
this spring, the U.S. was probably seeking “information about
terrorism and or the activities in Europe of countries from
other regions that are hostile to us,” McLaughlin said.  European nations were probably doing the same thing, he
said.  Leaks based on data from Snowden appear “to be timed to
interfere with diplomatic activity” and “appear to be directed
at driving wedges between us and our allies,” McLaughlin said.
“There’s a pattern here that makes you suspicious that whoever
is controlling this is trying to achieve that end.”  News about surveillance of French calls, for example,
surfaced earlier this week as U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
visited Paris.  Economic Fallout  Burwell said economic fallout, even between allies as close
as the U.S. and Europe, is possible. After the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, the U.S. and Europe clashed over U.S. access
to passenger data on airline flights and to information about
financial transactions passing through SWIFT, the Society for
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication.  The airline information issue “was sort of resolved” and
“now it’s in danger of unraveling because of the NSA
revelations,” Burwell said. “We were saying one thing and now
we find out that the NSA is going down to a level of detail that
even we as Americans didn’t know about.”  The proposed Transatlantic Economic and Trade Pact may also
be affected, she said. The U.S. and Europe, which do $4 trillion
in annual trade, investment and commercial sales in each other’s
markets, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, are soon to
start talks on the agreement.  The pact will have to be approved by the EU parliament and
“this scandal is playing into how they view the trade deal,”
Burwell said. EU lawmakers have told Burwell that “a final deal
won’t be approved unless there’s an agreement between the U.S.
and EU on the handling of personal data,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes in Washington at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  