-- Euro-Area Services, Manufacturing Unexpectedly Slow
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-10-24T09:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/euro-area-services-manufacturing-unexpectedly-slow.html
Euro-area services and manufacturing
output unexpectedly slowed in October as the recovery in the
currency bloc struggled to gain momentum.  A  composite index  based on a survey of  purchasing managers 
in both industries declined to 51.5 this month from 52.2 in
September, London-based Markit Economics said today. Economists
had forecast the indicator would rise to 52.4, according to the
median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion. Factory output in  China  increased
more than expected this month, separate data showed.  Markit’s services-output index unexpectedly declined in
October, while a gauge of  factory output  increased less that
economists projected. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on Oct. 2 that the bank will keep key  interest rates 
“at present or lower levels for an extended period,” based in
part on the “broad-based weakness” in the economy.  “There are green shoots, but the recovery is still very,
very immature,” said  Alberto Gallo , head of European macro
credit research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The October gauge of services output in the 17-nation
currency bloc fell to 50.9 from 52.2 in September, today’s
report showed, while Markit’s index of euro-area  factory output 
increased to 51.3 from 51.1. Economists had forecast the
 services indicator  to remain at 52.2 and the factory gauge to
rise to 51.4, according to separate Bloomberg surveys.  ‘Fragile’ Recovery  The euro was off its highs against against the dollar after
the data. The single currency traded at $1.3785 at 10:17 a.m. in
 London , up less than 0.1 percent on the day after trading as
high as $1.3822 earlier.  “The dip in the PMI will remind policymakers that a
sustainable upturn is by no means assured, and adds confirmation
to the ECB’s view that the recovery is slow, uneven and
fragile,”  Chris Williamson , Markit’s chief economist, said in
today’s report. “Attention is likely to be focused on whether
the region requires more policy action to boost  the recovery 
rather than on the timing of any withdrawal of stimulus.”  In China, a gauge of manufacturing strengthened more than
anticipated this month, thought the report was overshadowed by
concern that the government could tighten credit and clamp down
further on the  property market . The preliminary 50.9 reading for
a Purchasing Managers’ Index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics compared with a 50.4 median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Unemployment  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, New Zealand’s
trade deficit narrowed in September from the previous month,
while Vietnam’s inflation slowed in October.  In  Europe , economists see euro-area economic growth slowing
to 0.2 percent in the third quarter after a 0.3 percent
expansion in the three months through June, according to another
Bloomberg survey.  Near-record unemployment  is limiting the euro-area recovery.  The bloc’s  jobless rate  held at 12 percent. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg expect the jobless rate to peak at 12.2
percent by the end of this year, before falling to 12 percent by
2015.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s its biggest engineering company, is
cutting jobs as part of a drive to improve profit margins.
Siemens will cut 4 percent of its 370,000 workers worldwide,
with a third of the reduction in the German home market.  Car Sales  Still, there are some indications that the labor market is
starting to recover. The  unemployment rate  in  Spain  declined to
25.98 percent in the third quarter from 26.26 percent in the
previous three months, data showed today.  There are other signs that the economy is strenghthening.
European new car sales rose the most in more than two years in
September, helped by a government incentive program in Spain.
Euro-area  consumer confidence  rose for an 11th month in October,
according to the European Commission.  German porcelain manufacturer Villeroy & Boch AG said this
week that in key euro-area markets “the downturn in economic
output slowed despite the sustained high level of
unemployment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  