-- Euro Hedging Jumps as Europe Exporters Bemoan Gains: Currencies
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-10-24T11:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/euro-hedging-jumps-as-europe-exporters-bemoan-gains-currencies.html
The euro’s unexpected rally this
year is spurring a jump in hedging as the currency’s strength
threatens to damp earnings at companies from  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG (LHA)  to luxury-goods maker  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA. (MC)   Daily trading in options designed to hedge gains in the
currency rose 4 percent in the year through September to an
average 25,105 contracts, according to CME Group Inc., the
largest derivatives exchange. The euro climbed to an almost two-year high of $1.3822 today, above the year-end estimate of $1.27
in a January survey of strategists and economists by Bloomberg.  Even with hedges in place, German airline Lufthansa cited
the strong euro when its profit estimate this week fell short of
analyst forecasts, while LVMH said Oct. 16 that the currency’s
gains versus the dollar and Japanese yen shaved 6 percent off
third-quarter revenue.  “As the  currency market  moves into new territory,
companies re-evaluate their positions and play catch-up by
raising their hedging positions,” Ross Niland, the London-based
head of northern European foreign-exchange corporate sales at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a phone interview yesterday. “But
there’s still some sense of complacency out there. Companies
tend to react to market moves and put protection in place a bit
too late.”  Blaming Rupee  Europe ’s common currency has climbed 6.7 percent against a
basket of its nine major peers this year, more than the others,
as the euro region emerged from a record-long recession,
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show.  Unilever, the British-Dutch maker of Magnum ice cream, and
Paris-based water company Suez Environnement, today joined
Lufthansa and LVMH in saying the  exchange rate  dented earnings.  Lufthansa said Oct. 22 that this year’s operating profit
will be 600 million euros ($828 million) to 700 million euros,
below an estimate of about 918 million euros by analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The Frankfurt-based company, which is
scheduled to release earnings for the first three quarters of
the year on Oct. 31, said the euro’s gains versus  India ’s rupee
contributed to the shortfall.  “We generally hedge currency risks from projected
operational exposure, including the Japanese yen, in different
layers over a rolling period of 24 months by futures
contracts,” Claudia Lange, Lufthansa’s head of corporate and
financial communications, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on Oct. 22. “The average hedging level is usually at
50 percent.”  Louis Vuitton  LVMH, whose  Louis Vuitton  brand’s founder built his
reputation as a luggage-maker for the wife of Napoleon III, said
it has hedged 90 percent of its euro-yen exposure for this year
and about 66 percent for next year. The largest luxury goods
maker, which also produces Moet & Chandon champagne and Hennessy
cognac, announced third-quarter revenue of 7.02 billion euros,
compared with 6.9 billion euros in the year-earlier period.  “The growth in this year’s third quarter was significantly
offset by a large negative currency impact,” Christopher Hollis, the head of financial communications at the Paris-based
company, said on an Oct. 16 investor conference call. “The
weakness of the yen, in particular, the dollar compared to last
year, resulted in a negative 6 percent impact.”  The  euro’s advance  against a basket of its peers compares
with the dollar’s 1.5 percent gain this year and an 11 percent
drop in the yen, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gains Seen  Companies looking to the  European Central Bank  to cut its
main  interest rate  from a record-low 0.5 percent to weaken the
common currency will wait in vain, according to Henrik Gullberg,
a strategist in  London  at Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s biggest
foreign-exchange trader.  “The euro probably has room to appreciate further,”
Gullberg said in an Oct. 22 interview. “The ECB’s mandate is to
focus on  price stability  and not on the currency” and “I don’t
think inflation’s at the point where the ECB would consider
taking action,” Gullberg said.  Euro-area inflation  remained below the ECB’s 2 percent
ceiling for an eighth month in September, the European Union
said Oct. 16. Consumer prices rose an annual 1.1 percent after a
1.3 percent increase in August. The central bank forecasts the
rate will average 1.5 percent this year and 1.3 percent in 2014.  Options Increase  The euro has strengthened 4.6 percent versus the dollar
this year, and was at $1.3803 as of 7:15 a.m. in  New York . It
has surged 17 percent against  Japan ’s currency, heading for its
best year ever. It touched 135.51 yen on Oct. 22, the strongest
level since November 2009.  The average notional daily value of options on CME that
hedge against the euro’s advance rose to $4.04 billion in
September, the most since March.  Volumes of CME’s so-called European-style options, which
carry restrictions on when they can be exercised and may be
favored by companies more bullish on the common currency, surged
30 percent in the year through September to 288 contracts a day.
The Chicago, Illinois-based exchange operator doesn’t specify
whether the buyers of the contracts are companies.  Keith Nichols, chief financial officer at Amsterdam-based
chemicals producer  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the maker of Dulux paint, said
Oct. 21 that a 5 percent drop in third-quarter revenue was
“primarily driven by the unfavorable currency effect as the
euro strengthened.”  Crisis Rebound  On the same day, Walldorf, Germany-based  SAP AG (SAP) , the
biggest maker of business-management software, warned that if
the euro remains at levels seen in September, its software sales
will be 5 percentage points lower than otherwise. The euro
averaged $1.3362 in September.  A recovering economy is stoking a rally in the euro, which
as recently as July 2012 was in jeopardy of breaking up amid the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The euro area emerged from its longest recession this year,
with the economy growing 0.3 percent in the second quarter,
official data showed Sept. 4. The region posted a  current-account surplus  of 17.4 billion euros on Oct. 17 for August, up
from 15.5 billion euros the previous month. As recently as
October 2011, it was running a deficit in its current account,
the broadest measure of trade because it includes investments.  Boosting Confidence  The Frankfurt-based ECB has also boosted confidence by
offering to buy indebted member states’ debt, though it hasn’t
yet had to implement the program, sidestepping the currency-depreciating money-printing policies of the U.S. and Japan.  Analysts have raised their predictions for the euro’s year-end level to $1.33, according to the median of more than 60
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. A stronger currency risks
damping growth, which is still forecast by economists surveyed
by Bloomberg to shrink 0.3 percent this year.  “Europe will not want the euro strength to continue,”
 David Bloom , the global head of currency strategy at HSBC
Holdings Plc in London, wrote in a note to clients. “What
little recovery we’ve seen in the euro-zone economy has been
driven by the swing in net trade. With unemployment likely to
remain high, a further revival in exports will be critical.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  