-- Hewlett-Packard Said to Be Seeking to Sell Mobile Patents
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-10-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/hewlett-packard-said-to-be-seeking-to-sell-mobile-patents.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is seeking
buyers for some of its mobile-computing patents, according to
people with direct knowledge of the matter, as Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman  tries to bolster the company’s financial
position.  The Silicon Valley computer maker has approached potential
buyers about the portfolio of patents, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the discussions are private.
The intellectual property includes those related to WebOS, the
smartphone and tablet-computer operating system that Hewlett-Packard bought through its 2010 acquisition of Palm Inc., which
it later wrote down.  In recent months, Hewlett-Packard has removed some
restrictive conditions that made the patents unattractive to
buyers, said two people who have reviewed the portfolio. That
made the patents more appealing to prospective buyers, and more
likely to fetch a higher price, these people said.  Hewlett-Packard, the world’s second-largest maker of
personal computers, is trying to recover from several years of
management turmoil, declining sales and profit and a balance
sheet damaged by bad acquisitions. Whitman, in her third year as
CEO, is stabilizing revenue, returning more cash to shareholders
and has crafted a mobile-computing approach centered around
Microsoft Corp.’s Windows operating system and Google Inc.’s
Android.  “We don’t comment on rumor and speculation,” said Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Hewlett-Packard.  Lucrative Currency  In today’s market, where computing devices increasingly
rely on technology developed by a variety of inventors, patents
have become valuable currency. Google agreed to pay $12.5
billion in 2011 to buy Motorola Mobility, in large part for its
patents. Apple Inc. and Microsoft the same year led a consortium
that paid $4.5 billion for more than 6,000  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) 
patents. And AOL Inc. sold and licensed a trove to Microsoft for
$1.06 billion last year.  Hewlett-Packard, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , didn’t
manage to make Palm’s WebOS -- part of a $1.2 billion
acquisition -- into a success. Whitman’s predecessor,  Leo Apotheker , promised to incorporate WebOS into the company’s
personal computers and shipped an  ill-fated  tablet called the
TouchPad. He later shuttered the Palm division and halted device
production.  Whitman initially turned WebOS, designed for smartphones
and tablets, into an open-source software project and rebranded
it as a wholly-owned subsidiary called Gram. She sold the
operating system’s code to  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  earlier this
year.  Hewlett-Packard retained WebOS’s  patents  under that deal
and licensed them to LG. The agreement would be unlikely to
encumber Hewlett-Packard’s ability to sell its WebOS patents,
one of the people with knowledge of the sales process said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  