-- Mexican Consumer Prices Rose More Than Expected in Early October
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-10-24T13:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/mexican-consumer-prices-rose-more-than-expected-in-early-october.html
Mexican  consumer prices  rose more
than economists expected in the first half of October as energy
costs increased.  Prices climbed 0.40 percent in the first two weeks of the
month, the national statistics agency said today on its website,
compared with the 0.35 percent median forecast of 21 economists
in a Bloomberg survey.  Annual inflation  slowed to 3.27 percent
from 3.32 percent in September, nearing the central bank’s 3
percent target. Core prices, which exclude energy and farm
costs, increased 0.14 percent, more than the 0.12 percent median
projection.  Policy makers led by Governor Agustin Carstens will reduce
 borrowing costs  by at a quarter percentage point tomorrow to a
record-low 3.5 percent, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Retail sales and industrial
production unexpectedly fell in August from the year earlier,
adding to signs that economic weakness from the first half of
the year continued in the third quarter.  The government last month cut its growth forecast for this
year to 1.7 percent, half of the 3.5 percent it projected at the
start of the year, after public spending dropped in the first
half, exports stagnated and hurricanes Ingrid and Manuel
decimated crops, disrupted deliveries and emptied hotels.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 13.0171 per  U.S. dollar  at
8:07 a.m. in  Mexico  City. Yields on fixed-rate government peso
bonds due in December dropped eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 3.46 percent.  Dissenters  Banco de Mexico  cut its key rate a quarter point to 3.75
percent on Sept. 6, surprising 19 of 20 economists in a
Bloomberg survey who predicted no change. It was the most
contested decision since the central bank began publishing
minutes in February 2011, with two dissenters on the five-member
board preferring to wait until the  Federal Reserve  clarified its
strategy for paring its record stimulus.  The Fed decided against tapering its $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases at its meeting on Sept. 18. The Federal Open
Market Committee’s next decision is scheduled for Oct. 30.  Traders have stepped up their interest-rate wagers for
Mexico on speculation that the 16-day U.S. government shutdown,
which ended last week, will curb demand for Mexico’s exports,
hurt U.S. growth and spur the Fed to continue quantitative
easing. The Fed will delay the first reduction in its bond
purchases until March after the government shutdown slowed
fourth-quarter growth and interrupted the flow of data,
according to the median of 40 responses in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  New York  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  