-- Hey, Wall Street: If You Want Efficiency, Buy a Blender
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2013-10-24T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/hey-wall-street-if-you-want-efficiency-buy-a-blender.html
It is a supreme irony that a man
whose ideas could have helped us avoid the most recent financial
crisis now shares a Nobel with one whose work went a long way
toward making it possible.  The two economists --  Robert Shiller  of  Yale University  and
 Eugene Fama  of the  University of Chicago , winners of the 2013
memorial  prize  in economics -- are both admirers of the power of
financial markets. As Shiller rightly  argues , finance is a
technology that can be just as beneficial as any other, from
electric power to the Internet. Without finance, how would we
pool our collective resources to fund the vast undertakings
required for medical research, oil exploration or even
education? How would we insure ourselves against the staggering
costs of earthquakes and other natural catastrophes? How many of
us would ever own a house?  Yet Shiller’s enthusiasm is balanced by an understanding
that markets frequently generate perverse social outcomes. In
his 2000  book  “ Irrational Exuberance ,” Shiller warned loudly
of the impending collapse of the dot-com bubble. In the years
prior to the recent financial crisis, he spoke about distortions
in the housing market and the dangers of subprime mortgages. For
Shiller, the technology of finance, while immensely useful, also
carries a host of dangers, with no guarantee of proper
functioning without constant supervision.  If Shiller’s were the standard view in financial economics,
the world almost certainly would have avoided the worst
consequences of the crisis. Unfortunately, his realism hasn’t
been shared by others, most notably Fama. Perhaps no one over
the past 40 years has done more than Fama to push the notion
that finance is a technology that we don’t need to worry about -
- a claim that involves an impressive contortion of language.  Ideal Market  Usually in economics, the word “efficient” refers to some
theoretical assessment of a market’s ability to allocate
resources to their best use. The meaning comes from equilibrium
models that  Kenneth Arrow  and Gerard Debreu pioneered in the
1950s. Those models are so divorced from reality that nobody
really knows what implications they have for the world we live
in. That said, their notion of efficiency at least makes sense:
The ideal market gives an outcome that is better than the
alternatives.  Fama’s work injected a considerable dose of confusion by
using the word “efficient” in a very different sense. He
talked about “information efficiency,” and defined it as a
situation in which market prices “reflect all available
information.” Over the years, he and others played with a
variety of versions -- strong, semi-strong and weak -- that
differ in what information (private or public) they require
real-world market prices to reflect (see my  blog  for further
detail).  Ultimately, real-world data have supported only the weak
version, in which efficiency signifies that market movements are
almost impossible to predict, meaning it’s very difficult for an
investor to beat the market consistently. This comes as a
surprise to almost no one, and has nothing to do with how any
normal person understands the word “efficient.” A market
driven up and down by monkeys hitting the keys of typewriters
would also be efficient in this very peculiar sense.  The amount of ink spilled over the efficient markets idea
in the past 40 years is truly stupendous. On the bright side, it
inspired the creation of  index funds , on the assumption that
investors can do better by passively holding a wide variety of
assets than they can by trying to beat the market.  Damage Done  Unfortunately, the damage done is far greater. The view of
prices as being in a perpetual equilibrium helped to discourage
the development of more realistic theories of markets as
ecologies of interacting strategies which never reach any benign
resting point. These only received serious exploration beginning
in the 1990s, and remain unknown to many economists even today.  Worst of all, easy acceptance of the phrase “markets are
efficient” has for several decades helped to feed a complacency
surrounding the global financial system. Fama and others showed
that markets are “efficient” in a weird technical sense, and
then used the familiarity of this word to convince us that
markets do their job really well and therefore should be left
alone.  It’s hard to say whether this was intentional deception or
merely self-delusion. Either way, it has done humanity a great
disservice.  ( Mark Buchanan , a theoretical physicist and the author of
“Forecast: What Physics, Meteorology and the Natural Sciences
Can Teach Us About Economics,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 