-- Fannie Mae Loan Limits to Remain Unchanged at Beginning of 2014
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-10-24T19:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/fannie-mae-loan-limits-to-remain-unchanged-at-beginning-of-2014.html
The  Federal Housing Finance Agency 
will wait until after the beginning of the new year before
reducing the size of mortgages that U.S--owned  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  can buy, the agency’s acting director said.  The mortgage industry needs time to adjust to new
regulations governing lending that are set to take effect in
January, Edward J. DeMarco said today during a briefing with
reporters.  The agency, which regulates Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) ,
could have more to say about potential decreases when it issues
its annual statement on loan limits in November and will give at
least six months’ notice before taking any action, he said.  “Gradual reductions in the maximum loan size is consistent
with the strategic goal we’ve set forth in the last year about
gradually contracting the enterprises’ footprint in the
marketplace and gradually reducing the American taxpayers’
exposure,” DeMarco said.  Government-owned  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac, which back
about two-thirds of new home loans, currently buy mortgages of
as much as $417,000 in most areas and of as much as $625,500 in
costly housing markets. They package the mortgages into
securities on which they guarantee payments of principal and
interest.  Lowering loan limits could make borrowing more costly for
some homebuyers. Mortgages eligible for purchase by Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, known as conforming loans, are generally less
expensive than larger loans known as jumbos because the
government would absorb the cost of default.  Reducing Footprint  Any eventual reduction in loan limits would apply to both
the base limit and the higher limit in expensive markets,
DeMarco said.  President  Barack Obama  called for a decrease in loan limits
in August, citing the government’s outsized footprint in the
housing market.  DeMarco said at the time that the agency was considering
reductions and would provide advance notice if it intended to
put them into effect on Jan. 1, the date when limit changes
historically have gone into effect.  Since then, trade groups including the National
Organization of Realtors, the National Association of
Homebuilders, and the  Mortgage Bankers Association  have been
asking that the limits be kept at current levels, at least until
there’s time to assess the impact of new regulations on the
market.  “I’ve concluded that we needed more time and the industry
has an awful lot going on on Jan. 1,” DeMarco said.  “The
better course was to wait and provide a sense that there would
be an ample amount of time for market participants to adjust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  