-- Fed to Propose Banks Hold Funds for Credit Drought
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-24T17:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/fed-set-to-open-proposed-bank-liquidity-demand-to-public-comment.html
(Corrects spelling of  law firm  in last paragraph.)  Banks would have to hold enough
easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit drought under a
rule to be proposed today by the  Federal Reserve  that may have
the greatest effect on banks with big trading operations such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The demand for 30 days of liquidity is intended to satisfy
global Basel III accords for strengthening the financial system.
Increasing the banks’ liquid assets is meant to make them less
vulnerable in a crisis like the one that struck in 2008.  “It’s always been viewed as something that had more
relevance for the trading banks,” said former Fed lawyer
William Sweet, adding that it will hit them harder because of
their more urgent need for short-term funding. Banks’ broker-dealer units must raise money in the market because they can’t
rely on deposits to finance their activities.  In January, the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
agreed on a liquidity coverage ratio meant to ensure that banks
can survive a 30-day credit squeeze. The standard to be fully
implemented by 2019 allows lenders to go beyond cash and low-risk sovereign debt to an expanded range of assets including
some equities and securitized mortgage debt, according to the
 agreement .  The rules to be advanced by the Fed today must also be
proposed and opened to public comment by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  In previous measures to satisfy Basel committee accords,
U.S. regulators have sometimes been tougher than the
international body. For example, leverage limits proposed by the
agencies in July for eight of the largest U.S. banks would as
much as double the 3 percent level set in Basel as the minimum
capital that banks must hold against their assets.  ‘More Rigorous’  “The implementation by the U.S. of the Basel rules have
had more rigorous requirements than those implemented
elsewhere,” said Sweet, a partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP in  Washington .  The multiagency liquidity proposal will probably target the
largest banks, according to a Morgan Stanley research report
yesterday, which said  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  all indicate they
already meet the Basel requirement. Morgan Stanley said the
proposal will probably allow government-sponsored enterprise
debt while excluding private-label mortgage securities.  Financial rules on everything from capital to liquidity are
set at the global level by the Basel committee, a group of
central bankers and regulators from 28 nations including the
U.S., U.K. and China. They are in turn overseen by the Group of
Governors and Heads of Supervision, which is led by Bank of
England Governor  Mark Carney , with meetings attended by central
bankers such as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  European
Central Bank ’s  Mario Draghi .  Liquidity Tussle  The liquidity coverage ratio was at the center of an
international tussle last year, as some central bankers and
regulators warned that a draft version of the standard risked
causing a credit crunch, while others urged against a wholesale
watering down of the measure.  The European Central Bank and the Bank of France were among
authorities that warned of negative side effects. ECB president
Draghi told lawmakers that the draft standard “strongly
penalizes interbank lending.” Regulators also expressed concern
that it would curtail lending and make it harder for banks to
implement monetary policies.  The Basel liquidity rule agreed on in January expanded
beyond an earlier version in what counts as high-quality liquid
assets, including acceptance of a limited amount of corporate
debt, riskier sovereign debt and common equity. The watered-down
rule also gave banks more breathing room, pushing full
compliance out another six years.  “It’s clearly a significant component of the overall Basel
III capital and liquidity framework,” said Luigi L. De Ghenghi,
who advises banks on regulation at Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP in
 New York . He said it’ll be watched with “great interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 