-- Fed Loan Warning May Hurt Riskiest Borrowers, Trade Group Says
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-10-25T17:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/fed-said-to-issue-warning-about-lax-leveraged-loan-underwriting.html
Recommendations by top banking
regulators that lenders strengthen underwriting standards for
leveraged loans may decrease funding to the neediest borrowers,
according to Loan Syndications and Trading Association.  The Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency sent letters to some of the biggest U.S. banks
asking them to avoid arranging debt that may be classified by
regulators as having some deficiency that may result in a loss,
according to nine people with knowledge of the communication.  Regulators are seeking to cut down on excessive risk taking
as typical lender protections have been stripped from credit
agreements at a record pace. Speculative-grade borrowers have
raised $239.6 billion of covenant-light loans this year, more
than double the amount in 2012, Bloomberg data show. The LSTA,
whose almost 350 members consist of banks, investors and
corporate law firms, said the regulators’ request will hurt the
least-creditworthy companies.  “This does not help the availability of credit to non-investment-grade borrowers,” Meredith Coffey, executive vice
president at the trade association for the U.S. corporate loan
market, said in a telephone interview.  Covenant-light loans give companies more leeway to avoid a
default as they don’t contain financial-maintenance provisions
requiring the borrower to meet such restrictions as a set level
of debt relative to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization.  Leveraged loans and high-yield, high-risk bonds are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at
Standard & Poor’s.  Istar Lifeline  High-yield, high-risk loans are used to help troubled
companies as well as back buyouts, such as the $3 billion
financing that helped real-estate lender Istar Financial Inc.
avoid bankruptcy and the debt package for the $48 billion
purchase of Energy Future Holdings Corp. by KKR & Co., Goldman
Sachs Capital Partners and TPG Capital.  The debt is booming, with issuance at $839.6 billion this
year in the U.S., within 7 percent of the record $899 billion
set in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., and the OCC
issued guidelines in March for junk-rated loans citing
deteriorating underwriting conditions. The update was the first
since 2001.  “The concerns they are expressing are not something we are
seeing reflected in an increasing default rate,” Elliot Ganz,
general counsel at the LSTA in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  Moody’s forecasts the global speculative-grade default rate
will rise to 3 percent this year from 2.8 percent in September.
The measure peaked at 13.73 percent in November 2009.  “If the agencies prevent the banks from underwriting
leveraged loans, it’s pretty clear that some deals won’t get
done,” Ganz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  