-- Foresight Raises 150 Million Pounds in U.K. Solar IPO
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2013-10-24T16:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/foresight-says-raised-150-million-pounds-in-u-k-solar-fund-ipo.html
Foresight Group LLP, a London-based
asset manager, raised 150 million pounds ($242 million) in an
initial public offering for a fund focusing on solar power
investments, Britain’s second to target the technology.  The fund offered shares at 1 pound each to investors who
ordered 150 million shares, Foresight said today in a statement.
The proceeds were lower than the 200 million to 250 million
pounds targeted. The shares will start trading under the ticker
FSFL in London on Oct. 29.  The share offering is the U.K.’s fourth clean-energy IPO
this year and the second to zero in on Britain’s growing market
for large-scale solar parks after  Bluefield Partners LLP (BSIF) ’s 130
million-pound placement in July. The fund plans to invest in
ground-mounted photovoltaic projects that benefit from
government support, offering a steady income stream.  That the fund didn’t raise as much as it hoped “could
reflect a bit of indigestion after seven months in which U.K.-
quoted renewable energy project funds have raised a total of
$1.3 billion,” Angus McCrone, chief editor for Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, said by e-mail. It may also reflect “some
nervousness about future government policy towards large ground-mounted PV projects, Foresight’s chosen asset type.”  A record number of large-scale solar parks have been built
this year across the country, prompting calls from ministers for
local authorities to limit approvals. U.K. solar capacity may
exceed 3 gigawatts by the end of the year, according to
Foresight, which is based in Sevenoaks, southeast  England .
Installed capacity was about 2.1 gigawatts at the end of 2012.  Buying Projects  The new fund aims to use the proceeds to buy eight U.K.
projects with a combined capacity of 145.4 megawatts, including
two of the country’s largest solar parks. It has committed to
buy the 32-megawatt Wymeswold plant, already in operation, and
the 35.5-megawatt Kencot project, the prospectus shows.  Renewable energy companies are taking advantage of
investors’ thirst for income as the  Bank of England  keeps
 interest rates  at record lows.  Greencoat U.K. Wind Plc (UKW)  raised
260 million pounds in March and  The Renewables Infrastructure
Group Ltd. (TRIG) , which targets both wind and solar projects, raised
300 million pounds in July.  Infinis Energy Plc, the clean energy arm of Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd., is also seeking to list in  London  in
November, it said on Oct. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  