-- French Soccer Clubs to Strike to Protest Hollande’s 75% Tax
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-10-24T14:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/french-soccer-clubs-to-strike-to-protest-hollande-s-75-tax.html
French soccer clubs said they won’t
play a round of league matches in November to protest President
 Francois Hollande ’s tax on the highest salaries kicking in next
year.  “This is a historic decision, made unanimously and with
determination, to save soccer,” the French Football Federation
said in a statement on its website.  The strike, the first of its kind since 1972, is over
Hollande’s plan to impose a 75 percent levy on earnings of more
than 1 million euros ($1.38 million). The tax was announced by
Hollande in February 2012 as part of his presidential campaign
and was designed to appeal to his Socialist base. It has become
a symbol of his government’s record-high rate of taxation.  A first attempt to put the tax into law was shot down by
the constitutional court last December because it applied to
individuals and not households. Hollande later revived the levy,
specifying that it would apply to salaries and would be paid by
employers rather than individuals.  For some unprofitable clubs, the extra burden is a threat
to survival, according to the  Ligue de Football Professionnel .  “The consequences of this measure will be dramatic,” said
 Frederic Thiriez , head of the LFP, said in a statement. “ France 
must be the only country that taxes money-losing companies.”  The clubs, which are canceling matches between Nov. 29 and
Dec. 2, are asking the government to abandon the tax.  Mixed Burden  Professional football contributes about 700 million euros
in taxes annually to the French state and provides about 25,000
jobs, according to the LFP.  Some clubs can handle the burden better than others. Paris
Saint-Germain, France’s richest soccer club, has at least 12
team members who make more than 1 million euros a year. They
include Swedish striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic, who earns 15 million
euros a year.  Former England captain  David Beckham  would escape the tax
because his five-month stint at PSG didn’t qualify him as a
French resident. While Beckham is soccer’s best-paid player with
36 million euros this year, only 5 percent of that comes from
salary, according to France Football.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  