-- Fruit Growers Say Government Shutdown May Hamper Harvest
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-10-24T21:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/fruit-growers-say-government-shutdown-may-hamper-harvest.html
U.S. fruit and vegetable growers say
delays in processing visa applications during the government
shutdown has left them so short of immigrant workers that crops
may be lost if the process isn’t expedited.  The 16-day shutdown that ended Oct. 17 has delayed the
arrival of temporary workers needed to harvest  Florida ’s citrus
crop, Mike Carlton, director of labor relations for the Florida
Fruit & Vegetable Association, said.  “The damage has been done by the shutdown and now it’s a
matter of whether the agencies are going to respond to the time-sensitive nature of the H2-A applications,” Carlton said in an
interview. “I don’t think there’s been enough time to really
know the answer to that.”  The H2-A visa program allows itinerant workers into the
U.S. to work on farms. About 65,000 farmworkers received visas
last year, mostly from  Mexico . Unlike the program for technology
workers, there’s no cap on the number of visas for farmworkers.
The House and Senate have proposed limitations on the H2-A visas
in pending bills.  In a letter to the secretaries of the Labor, State and
Homeland Security departments, 24 U.S. Representatives warned
Oct. 18 of potentially “disastrous consequences” for growers
and consumers if the visas are not processed quickly.  The DHS said Oct. 23 it would temporarily accept copies of
visa applications from the Labor Department instead of
applications with original signatures.  Fax Applications  “The accommodation is allowing the process to start with a
facsimile,” Christopher Bentley, a spokesman with the DHS, said
in an interview.  Applications from 230 employers representing 10,600 workers
were delayed by the shutdown, according to Egan Reich, a
spokesman for the Labor Department.  “We can process these efficiently and in a timely way,”
Egan said in an interview. “The concern that there are piles
and piles of applications sitting out there that haven’t been
touched is something that we can dispel.”  Measures taken by government agencies so far to speed H2-A
seasonal visas will shave only one day from the process, which
typically takes about two months, Carlton said.  Window Closing  “We’re not in crisis yet but the window is getting closer
and closer,” Andrew Meadows, director of communications at
Florida Citrus Mutual, the top U.S. grower organization, said in
a phone interview. “We lost 16 days during the government
shutdown at a critical time when growers get approval for
temporary guest-worker visas.”  “We’ve heard that they did bring in additional staff,”
Jason Resnick, vice president and general counsel, of Western
Growers, which represents about 2,500 family produce farmers in
 Arizona  and  California . “It remains to be seen whether the
steps taken” are sufficient.  The visa process begins at the Department of Labor, which
certifies whether foreign workers are actually needed. If the
department agrees, the application is sent to DHS.  The process must begin in late September for workers to be
in place Nov. 1, the start of the Florida citrus harvest. During
the shutdown, which ended Oct. 17, no applications were
processed by the Labor Department.  Frozen Applications  Applications for almost 8,000 workers submitted by growers
in Florida were frozen during the shutdown, according to
Carlton. Florida’s citrus crop was worth about $1.1 billion in
the 2010-2011 season.  Out of 16,000 workers needed during the harvest, the state
typically brings 8,000 to 10,000 guest workers to help collect
the crops, which in the year ended Sept. 30 yielded 133.4
million boxes, according to the most recent estimate from the
U.S. Department of Agriculture. Meadows estimated about 90
percent of the needed visas have not been approved.  The Florida citrus industry creates a $9 billion annual
economic impact, employing nearly 76,000 people, and covering
about 550,000 acres, according to information on the group’s
website.  “The harvest has started a little in the state but won’t
ramp up until early November,” Meadows said.  The visa delays come at a time when Florida farmers also
tackle declining output after a fungal disease that threatens to
curb output. Citrus consultant Elizabeth Steger said in August
that in the season started Oct. 1, production may drop to 130
million boxes, each weighing 90 pounds, or 41 kilograms.  Orange-juice futures in New York settled up 3.5 percent in
the past two days, halting a 10-session slide. The contract for
January delivery rose 0.5 percent to $1.216 a pound on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York.  The partial government closure, which took place as
Republicans and Democrats clashed over passing a budget and
lifting the nation’s borrowing limit, was resolved last week
when President  Barack Obama  signed legislation opening the
government until Jan. 15 and suspending the debt ceiling through
Feb. 7. Congress is attempting to reach a budget deal by Dec.
13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  