-- LG Electronics Misses Estimates on Smartphone Marketing
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-10-24T07:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/lg-electronics-misses-estimates-on-smartphone-marketing.html
LG Electronics Inc., (066570)  the world’s
third-largest smartphone maker, posted earnings that missed
analyst estimates as marketing costs for its new flagship
handset eroded profit.  Net income , excluding minority interest, fell 46 percent to
84 billion won ($80 million) in the three months ended Sept. 30,
the Seoul-based company said today. That compares with the 201.3
billion-won average of 18 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  LG, which released its G2 smartphone in August, used much
of its promotional budget to lure consumers in the slowing high-end segment, where growth has stalled as the market approaches
saturation. Rising competition from Samsung Electronics Co. and
Chinese makers selling cheaper handsets accelerated price cuts
and led to a loss in the mobile unit, while tepid demand for
televisions also damped profit during the quarter.  “What worries me is that although its mobile unit saw
increased sales in the third quarter, it registered a loss,”
said Choi Nam Kon, a Seoul-based analyst at TongYang Securities
Inc. “That’s a signal the market is becoming increasingly
competitive and difficult. LG has to slash handset prices
further in order to survive in this cutthroat battle.”  The mobile division is estimated to have spent a record 200
billion won on marketing in the third quarter, Yoon Hyuk Jin, a
Seoul-based analyst at  Eugene Investment & Securities Co. (001200) , wrote
in an Oct. 7 note.  LG rose 0.6 percent to 70,100 won in Seoul trading, while
the benchmark Kospi index rose 0.5 percent.  Mobile Loss  Operating income, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, rose 27 percent to 217.8 billion won in
the third quarter while sales gained 4.6 percent to 13.9
trillion won.  LG’s mobile division had a third-quarter operating loss of
79.7 billion won on sales of 3.05 trillion won. Smartphone
shipments in the quarter were 12 million units.  The Korean electronics maker is banking on the 5.2-inch G2
handset, unveiled at  New York ’s  Lincoln Center  in August, to
boost sales. Andy Kim, senior vice president of marketing at
LG’s mobile unit, said marketing costs for the G2 device were
the biggest in company history.  Marketing Boost  LG captured 5.3 percent market share and maintained its
position as the world’s No. 3 smartphone seller in the three
months ended June 30, researcher  Strategy Analytics  said in a
July 26  report .  “We knew LG would spend massively on marketing for G2,”
Lee Seung Woo, a Seoul-based analyst at IBK Securities Co., said
before the earnings release. “The high-end sales are slowing
but bigger players, like Samsung, are eating into most of the
share in the low-end space.”  The home-entertainment division, which makes TVs and
accounted for about  47 percent  of revenue last year, had an
operating profit of 124.4 billion won in the third quarter. LG
ranks No. 2 in revenue share for flat-panel TVs, researcher NPD
DisplaySearch said Sept. 3.  Falling TV prices caused by increasing competition from
Chinese manufacturers are reducing LG’s profit, Lee Seung Woo,
an analyst at Seoul-based IBK Securities Co., said by phone Oct.
21.  LG’s home-appliance division had an operating profit of
109.2 billion won on 2.97 trillion won of sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  