-- Georgian Billionaire Set to Lower Curtain on Rose Revolution
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2013-10-25T15:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/georgia-billionaire-set-to-bring-down-curtain-on-rose-revolution.html
Georgians are set to elect a
presidential candidate backed by their billionaire prime
minister in a vote that will bring the curtain down on an era
that pivoted the country toward the U.S. and  Europe .  Bidzina Ivanishvili, who pulled off a shock victory over
President Mikheil Saakashvili’s party in parliamentary elections
last year, is backing Giorgi Margvelashvili in the Oct. 27
ballot. Margvelashvili, a former education minister, has more
than twice the support of his nearest rival in the latest polls.  Capturing the presidency would complete a transition from
the 2003 Rose Revolution that usurped ex-Soviet Foreign Minister
Eduard Shevardnadze and loosened Georgia’s ties with Russia.
With his stated goal of reshaping Georgian politics complete,
Ivanishvili said he’ll hand the premier’s job to an ally after
the new president is sworn in next month.  “Ivanishvili is stealing the show,” Teemu Sinkkonen, a
researcher at the Finnish Institute of International Affairs in
Helsinki, said Oct. 22 in an e-mailed report. His departure
“after ruling for only one year, and immediately after the
long-standing Saakashvili steps down, will leave  Georgia  without
any charismatic leader for the first time in its history.”  Margvelashvili, 43, had 39 percent support compared with 18
percent for Davit Bakradze, the choice of Saakashvili’s United
National Movement, a National Democratic Institute poll of 3,838
people published Sept. 26 showed.  ‘Largely Ceremonial’  He’s polling 48 percent to Bakradze’s 23 percent, according
to a UNM-funded survey of 1,477 people carried out Oct. 5-11 by
Greenberg Quinland Rosner Research. There are 23 registered
candidates.  Margvelashvili has said he may quit the vote if he doesn’t
get the 50 percent backing needed to win in the first round.
While his campaign features pledges to bolster entrepreneurs and
pursue friendly relations with Europe, the U.S. and  Russia , his
remit would be smaller than Saakashvili’s as Georgia becomes a
parliamentary democracy.  “The position of president will be largely ceremonial,”
Mark Mullen, head of Transparency International’s Georgia
office, said yesterday by e-mail. “This is more of a referendum
on the ruling team than anything else.”  Ivanishvili, who said Oct. 23 that he’d step down a week
after the new president’s Nov. 17 inauguration, vowed to raise
 living standards , boost Russian ties and improve the justice
system as he built the Georgian Dream coalition that upset the
UNM in parliamentary elections last October. He may name his
choice to take over on Oct. 29 or Oct. 30, according to remarks
broadcast late yesterday by Rustavi 2 television.  Russian Fortune  Since taking office, Ivanishvili, who made most his $5.5
billion fortune in Russia, has introduced free health care for 2
million people and sought to calm tensions with Russia after the
two nations fought a five-day war in 2008 over the breakaway
South Ossetia region. Russia has this year lifted bans on
Georgian wine,  mineral water  and agricultural products.  “With these elections, Georgia is entering a new period,”
Margvelashvili told reporters today in Tbilisi. “The post-Soviet political culture is over.”  While Ivanishvili, 57, set out to defeat Saakashvili to
help nurture multi-party politics, he’s persisting with some of
the outgoing leader’s policies such as seeking European Union
and NATO membership. Georgia is scheduled to initial an
association agreement with the 28-member EU next month.  ‘Fully Satisfied’  The prime minister said Sept. 2 that he’s “fully
satisfied” with his performance to date and plans to leave a
functioning political system rather than a nation that looks to
a “messiah.”  His time in office hasn’t gone entirely smoothly. The EU
and U.S. have criticized the government for arresting
Saakashvili-era officials such as former Premier Vano
Merabishvili and ex-Defense and Interior Minister Bacho
Akhalaia. Border spats with Russia have persisted five years
after their war.  Amid uncertainty over Georgia’s direction, the economy has
also soured, with growth in  gross domestic product  slowing to
1.5 percent from a year earlier in the second quarter, down from
as high as 8.2 percent in the same three months of 2012. Foreign
direct investment, which fueled 5.1 percent average expansion in
2007-2012, fell for the first year in three in 2012 as
Ivanishvili clashed with Saakashvili.  Investment Fund  While the premier has said he’ll channel his own money in a
multi-billion-dollar private equity fund to help lure foreign
investment, citizens had hoped he’d spend his wealth more freely
on improving the country through initiatives such as raising
pensions, David Sakvarelidze, a UNM lawmaker, said Oct. 23 by
phone.  The lari has weakened 0.6 percent against the dollar this
year, more than  Armenia ’s dram, which has lost 0.3 percent, and
 Azerbaijan ’s manat, which is unchanged. The yield on dollar-denominated government debt due 2021 was 5.332 percent today,
down from 6.105 percent two months ago.  For now, Georgians are willing to give Ivanishvili and his
team the benefit of the doubt, according to Tengiz Pkhaladze,
chairman of the International Centre for Geopolitical Studies in
Tbilisi.  “People will demand more from the new president and the
government because they have the people’s trust and people need
to see results,” he said yesterday by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  