-- German Ex-Spy Says Merkel Tap Breached Rules of Club Game
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-10-24T17:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/german-ex-spy-says-merkel-tap-breached-rules-of-club-game.html
Trans-Atlantic tapping of German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s mobile phone would have breached the
“rules of  the game” among associated intelligence operators,
a former head of Germany’s BND spy agency said.  “It’s fundamental philosophy not to spy on partners like
this, you just don’t,” said Hans-Georg Wieck in a telephone
interview from his Berlin home. “Break that rule and you better
be ready for the political consequences.”  Within 24 hours, publication of a report by  Der Spiegel  on
the monitoring of Merkel’s phone prompted a phone call between
the chancellor and President  Barack Obama , the summoning of the
U.S. ambassador to the German Foreign Ministry in Berlin and a
parliamentary inquiry. Merkel’s government said it’s seeking
“an immediate and comprehensive explanation” from the U.S.  The report threatens to engulf a European summit today
attended by Merkel and 27 other leaders. Entering the summit
building in Brussels this afternoon, Merkel told reporters that
“spying among friends is unacceptable” and that trust with the
U.S. has to be re-established.  Germany  and the U.S. pledged a “no-spying” agreement that
followed a first wave of revelations this summer by former NSA
contractor Edward Snowden. The U.S. “deceived” Germany in
accounting for the activities of the National Security Agency,
the chairman of the German parliament’s oversight committee
Thomas Oppermann told reporters today.  The fallout from the allegations is taking an unanticipated
course that’s shaken confidence in the credibility of the U.S.
on the no-spying pledge, said Wieck, who was for five years
until 1990 president of the Pullach, Bavaria-based
Bundesnachrichtendienst.  “I can only repeat the maxim,” he said. “Don’t spy on
your ally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  