-- Merkel Says Spying on Friends Unacceptable as Trust Eroded
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-10-24T17:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/germany-s-social-democrats-say-u-s-spying-risks-free-trade-deal.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
eavesdropping on allies is unacceptable and that trust must be
won back following reports her mobile phone was bugged by U.S.
intelligence agencies.  “Spying among friends is not done,” Merkel said to
reporters before a European Union summit in Brussels today, her
first public reaction to yesterday’s report in Der Spiegel
magazine. “We need trust between allies and partners, and this
trust must be re-established.”  German politicians from all parties have reacted with
outrage to the report that the U.S. National Security Agency may
have been monitoring Merkel’s private mobile phone for years. A
White House statement that the U.S. isn’t listening in failed to
stem demands in  Germany  and elsewhere in  Europe  for action to
ensure there is no repeat.  Germany summoned the U.S. ambassador to the Foreign
Ministry in Berlin today to clarify the charge of U.S.
eavesdropping as Merkel joined EU leaders, with the meeting’s
discussion of data protection taking on new relevance. Neither
Merkel nor any of the other 27 EU leaders entering the summit
echoed a call by European Parliament President  Martin Schulz  to
suspend EU-U.S. talks aimed at a free-trade agreement.  “There has to be a moment where we interrupt,” Schulz
said on his way into the summit a few minutes after Merkel.
“When I go into a negotiation and fear that the other side, a
friendly democracy, has conducted espionage to find out what
I’ll say in the negotiations, then we’re not at the same level
anymore.”  SPD Seeks Delay  Schulz is a German  Social Democrat . His SPD, which is
negotiating with Merkel to set up a coalition government in
Berlin, has also called for delaying the trade talks.  The proposed free-trade accord probably won’t become a
victim, least of all as a result of Germany, said  Jan Techau ,
Carnegie Europe’s Brussels office director.  “The German government won’t let this seriously impact on
talks for an EU-U.S. free-trade deal,” Techau said by phone.
“Opposition is going to come more from the EU Commission and
European Parliament, which is already seeking harsher measures
on this.”  Fredrik Erixon, director of the European Centre for
International Political Economy in Brussels, said the fallout
“isn’t going to seriously affect the EU-U.S. trade talks
because most of the EU governments, especially Germany’s, are
keen for a trade deal.”  Past Monitoring  White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  today declined to
answer a question about whether the U.S. had monitored Merkel’s
telephone conversations sometime in the past. Carney yesterday
said only that the U.S. “is not monitoring and will not
monitor” Merkel’s communications.  “We are not going to comment publicly on every specified,
alleged intelligence activity,” Carney told reporters in
 Washington . “We have made clear that the United States gathers
foreign intelligence of the type gathered by all nations.”  European and German politicians intensified calls for the
bugging allegation to be investigated and cleared up.  “There are strong signals that my German colleague has
been wiretapped,” Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  told
reporters before the summit, saying that he found the charge
“impossible, unthinkable and very serious.”  A decision today on possible action against the U.S. “is
not foreseen,” he said. “We are now awaiting the investigation
results and based on that, we will set the next steps.”  Merkel, who won re-election on Sept. 22 for a third term
leading Europe’s biggest economy, is the latest world leader to
express disquiet over allegations of U.S. eavesdropping. French
President  Francois Hollande  also sought clarification this week
over allegations of spying by the NSA.  “We need the truth now,” German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  told reporters in Berlin today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  