-- Italian Bonds Fall for Second Day as Consumer Confidence Wanes
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-10-24T15:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/german-bonds-snap-two-day-advance-before-euro-area-output-data.html
Italy’s  government bonds  dropped for
a second day as a report showed  consumer confidence  worsened
this month, encouraging investors to reduce their holdings after
gains that pushed yields to a four-month low.  The nation’s 10-year securities had their first two-day
decline in two weeks after separate data showed euro-area
services and manufacturing unexpectedly slowed in October.
Spanish two-year notes snapped a seven-day advance that had
pushed yields down 25 basis points. German bund yields reached a
10-week low. Investors should hold a smaller proportion of
 government securities  in their portfolio than recommended in
their benchmark index, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “Peripheral bonds have come a long way and are now
settling into a range as some in the market looked for an excuse
to take profits,” said Martin Munksgaard, a trader at  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in in Copenhagen, referring to the debt of the euro
area’s lower-rated nations. “We still expect the improved
growth outlook and policy support to help peripheral bonds
outperform. Those who don’t have them in their portfolios are
not doing very well.”  Italy’s 10-year  yield  climbed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 4.15 percent at 4:22 p.m.  London  time after
declining to 4.09 percent yesterday, the lowest since June 5.
The 4.5 percent bond due March 2024 fell 0.235, or 2.35 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,380) face amount, to 103.315.  Confidence Declines  An index of Italian  consumer confidence  dropped to 97.3,
the least since June, from a revised 100.8 in September, the
statistics office said. A  composite  gauge of euro-area
manufacturing and services based on a survey of  purchasing
managers  fell to 51.5 from 52.2 in September, Markit Economics
said. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for an
increase to 52.4.  Spain ’s  two-year note yields  increased three basis points
to 1.58 percent, while 10-year rates climbed one basis point to
4.14 percent.  German bonds were little changed with 10-year yields at
1.77 percent after dropping to 1.74 percent, the lowest level
since Aug. 13.  Government securities around the world have been supported
this month amid speculation a fiscal dispute that closed the
U.S. government will deter the  Federal Reserve  from slowing debt
purchases. The U.S. central bank buys $85 billion of assets each
month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs.  ‘Contradicting Forces’  German bunds “have been trapped by two contradicting
forces --accommodative policy and improved growth outlook,”
said  Luca Jellinek , head of European rates strategy at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “If positive
data continues at a solid pace, we are inclined to think the
risk to German yields is on the upside.”  Volatility on Dutch bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of  Germany  and  Greece ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  Investors should stay underweight government bonds during
the next year as growth quickens, Goldman Sachs said.  “Bond yields are in line with our estimates of current
fair value and we see the near-term risk-reward as balanced,”
analysts including Francesco Garzarelli, co-head of macro and
markets research in London, wrote today in a note to clients.
“Longer term, we continue to expect yields to rise as growth
improves. We remain neutral over three months and underweight
over 12 months.”  Italian bonds returned 6.5 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spain’s
gained 10 percent, while Germany’s lost 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  