-- German Ifo Business Sentiment Seen Rising for Sixth Month
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-10-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/german-ifo-business-sentiment-seen-rising-for-sixth-month.html
German business confidence probably
rose for a sixth month in October, adding to signs the economy
is benefiting from a recovery in the euro area and increasing
consumption at home.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 108 from 107.7 in
September, according to the median forecast of 39 economists in
a  Bloomberg News survey . That would be the highest level since
April 2012. A measure of expectations will also increase while a
gauge of current conditions will remain unchanged, the survey
shows. Ifo releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  German industrial production advanced more than economists
predicted in August, unemployment  remained  near a two-decade low
in September and investor sentiment increased to the highest in
more than three years in October. At the same time, the
Bundesbank said this week that growth probably slowed in the
third quarter after a 0.7 percent expansion in the three months
through June.  “In  Germany , the economy has turned the corner and
embarked on a sustained recovery,” said Lothar Hessler, an
economist at HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG in Dusseldorf. “Of
course, the level of the second quarter can’t be maintained but
private consumption and investment are increasing and putting
the economy on an increasingly solid footing.”  Christmas Business  German gross domestic product probably increased 0.4
percent in the third quarter and will rise at the same pace in
the fourth, according to Bloomberg’s monthly economic survey
published on Oct. 10. The German Federal Statistics Office is
due to release preliminary data for the past quarter on Nov. 14.  Olaf Koch, chief executive officer at  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s
biggest retailer, said on Oct. 17 he’s “confident” about
Christmas business after increased electronics sales in the
company’s home market helped nine-month revenue meet analysts’
estimates.  The 17-nation euro area, Germany’s biggest trading partner,
emerged from its  longest-ever recession  in the second quarter,
thanks in part to Germany’s economic strength. Since then,
manufacturing and services output in the region expanded,
according to a survey of purchasing managers, and the Spanish
economy, the bloc’s fourth largest, has returned to growth.  Yet, there are still “broad-based weaknesses in the
economy” and the risks to the outlook continue “to be on the
downside,” European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi   said
this month .  Challenging Position  The Frankfurt-based ECB predicts the currency bloc’s
economy will shrink 0.4 percent this year before growing 1
percent in 2014.  “ Europe  overall in the next four years will have quite a
challenging position,” Henkel AG Chief Executive Officer Kasper Rorsted said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on Oct.
2. “We don’t expect a lot of growth, if any at all in western
Europe” until 2017, he said.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  this week predicted operating profit
for 2013 that fell short of analysts’ estimates as restructuring
costs mount and the strong euro depresses revenue. The single
currency has appreciated more than 5 percent since early
September.  “Uncertainty continues to be high and that’s why companies
have little reason to invest strongly,” said Gerd Hassel, an
economist at BHF-Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “The German economy is
doing alright but I’d expect a setback in the third quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  