-- Global Gender Inequality Narrowed in 2013
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-10-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/global-gender-inequality-narrowed-in-2013.html
The world’s gender gaps narrowed
slightly this year, with Iceland showing the least inequality
among men and women, a report by the  World Economic Forum  found.  The Global Gender Gap Report, published today, found
“definite if not universal improvements” in economic equality
and political participation between the sexes in the ranking of
136 countries. Of those countries measured this year and last,
86 improved, the Geneva-based WEF said in an e-mailed statement.  Finland ranked second this year followed by Norway and then
Sweden, unchanged from last year. Iceland has held the top spot
for five years in a row.  Thanks to generous maternity leave provisions and
inexpensive daycare for children, Nordic countries have high
labor participation rates for women. There are two female prime
ministers and two female finance ministers in that region.  Norway’s historic quota system for women on supervisory
boards is being copied elsewhere in  Europe : Spain,  Germany , the
Netherlands, France and Iceland either plan to, or have already
implemented similar policies. The European Commission, the
European Union’s regulatory arm, proposed a quota system in 2012
to bring more women onto corporate boards.  Globally, inequality remains greatest in the areas of
economic equality and political participation, according to the
index. First compiled in 2006, it considers economic, political,
education and health-based criteria.  Economic Leadership  “In both developing and developed countries alike,
relative to the numbers of women in tertiary education and in
the workforce overall, women’s presence in economic leadership
positions is limited,” the WEF said in the study.  Among Group of 20 economies, Germany, where  Angela Merkel 
won a third term as chancellor, ranked highest. It dropped a
place to 14th compared with 2012.  South Africa ranked 17th, with the U.K. coming in 18th and
Canada at 20th. The U.S. was 23rd, while Russia ranked 61st,
followed by Brazil at 62nd.  The  International Monetary Fund  will push countries to
publish more data on female participation in the labor market in
an effort to draw attention to policies that could boost growth
from  Italy  to Egypt, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said
last month.  Nicaragua, which has now featured in the top ten for two
years, was Latin America’s leader in closing the gender gap in
the study, largely due to “political empowerment.” Cuba
followed at 15th, with Ecuador in 25th place.  Philippines Ranking  The Philippines ranked highest among countries in Asia,
“due to success in health, education and economic
participation.” China’s place in the ranking was unchanged at
69th, while India climbed four places to 101st, above Japan at
105th.  In Africa, several countries -- Lesotho,  South Africa ,
Burundi and Mozambique -- featured in the top 30 this year due
to women’s participation in the workforce, according to the WEF.  “Through this economic activity, women have greater access
to income and economic decision-making, but are often present in
low-skilled and low-paid sectors of the economy,” it said.  The only region not to have improved its standing was the
 Middle East  and North Africa, the report found. The  United Arab
Emirates  ranked 109th, the highest-placed Arab country in the
region, which achieved parity in education. Bahrain ranked
112th, with Qatar at 115th, “still failing to adequately
capitalize on the investments in education through greater
economic and political contributions from women,” it said.  At the bottom of the ranking were  Chad  (134th), Pakistan
(135th) and Yemen (136th).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  