-- Gold Bulls Persist on Dollar Drop as Stimulus Kept: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-10-25T19:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/gold-bulls-persist-on-dollar-drop-as-stimulus-kept-commodities.html
Gold analysts are bullish for a
second week on speculation that prolonged U.S. stimulus and a
weakening dollar will boost demand for the metal as a haven.  Seventeen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News expect prices
to advance next week, nine are bearish and six neutral. The
Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, a measure against 10 currencies,
slid to an eight-month low this week as U.S. employers added
fewer jobs than expected last month. Gold’s 30-week correlation
coefficient to the index is at minus 0.53, with a figure of
minus 1 meaning the two always move in opposite directions.  A 16-day U.S. government shutdown this month probably hurt
economic growth, at a time when the Federal Reserve is debating
whether to trim stimulus. Gold rose 70 percent from December
2008 to June 2011 as the Fed pumped more than $2 trillion into
the financial system. The metal tumbled into a bear market in
April and is heading for its first annual drop in 13 years as
some investors lost faith in bullion as a store of value.  “It’s pretty clear with the shutdown lasting over two
weeks and the negative news with the non-farm payrolls that it
would be a brave Fed to announce tapering at this stage,” said
Jonathan Butler, a precious metals strategist at  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058)  International (Europe) Plc in London. “The potential for
tapering to be delayed plus the residual weakness in the dollar
might give some extra oomph to precious metals.”  American Eagles  Bullion fell 19 percent to $1,352.05 an ounce in London
this year. Prices that reached a record $1,921.15 in September
2011 rallied as much as 8.4 percent since Oct. 15. The Standard
& Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities dropped 3.4 percent since
the start of January and the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities gained 17 percent. The Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond
Index lost 1.8 percent.  Prices also rallied on signs of improving demand for
physical metal. Sales of American Eagle gold coins by the U.S.
Mint are set for the best month since July and holdings in
bullion-backed funds rose the most in a year on Oct. 22,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lawmakers agreed to increase the debt limit on Oct. 16,
ending a partial government shutdown that President  Barack
Obama ’s chief economic adviser said probably trimmed 0.25
percentage point from fourth-quarter economic growth. U.S.
employers added 148,000 workers in September, trailing
economists’ expectations of a gain of 180,000, the Labor
Department said Oct. 22.  Policy Makers  Fed policy makers unexpectedly refrained from slowing the
$85 billion of monthly bond-buying last month and economists
surveyed by Bloomberg Oct. 17-18 said the central bank probably
will maintain that level until March.  The U.S. Mint sold 39,000 ounces of American Eagle coins so
far this month, triple September’s total, data on its website
show. Gold holdings in exchange-traded products rose by 6.5
metric tons on Oct. 22, the most since October 2012, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The first net purchases through ETPs in more than two weeks
lifted holdings from the lowest since April 2010. Investors sold
745.7 tons this year, erasing $60.1 billion from the value of
the products. John Paulson, the billionaire hedge fund manager
and biggest investor in the SPDR Gold Trust, the largest gold
ETP, cut his stake in the product by 53 percent in the second
quarter, a government filing showed.  While gold’s drop through the end of the year may be less
substantial than previously forecast, investors may use any
rallies as an opportunity to sell because stimulus tapering has
only been delayed, ABN Amro Group NV said in an Oct. 23 report.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. projects prices will be at $1,050 at
the end of 2014.  Inflation Outlook  Bullion slid from its 2011 all-time high partly because
unprecedented money printing failed to stoke inflation.
Expectations for gains in U.S. consumer prices, as measured by
the break-even rate for 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, reached a five-week low yesterday.  India , last year’s biggest gold consumer, restricted
imports of the metal this year to curb a record current-account
deficit. A shortage pushed premiums over the spot price to a
record this week, according to the All India Gems & Jewellery
Trade Federation. Demand for bullion before the Diwali festival
that takes place at the start of November may support prices,
said James Moore, an analyst at FastMarkets Ltd. in London.  Four of 11 people surveyed expect raw sugar to gain next
week and four were bearish. The commodity lost 2.5 percent to
19.02 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York this year.  Grain Surveys  Nine of 24 people surveyed anticipate lower corn prices and
seven said the grain will rise, while 12 of 26 said soybeans
will climb and eight expect lower prices. Eleven predicted gains
in wheat and nine were bearish. Corn fell 37 percent to $4.41 a
bushel this year in  Chicago . Soybeans slid 7.9 percent to
$12.985 a bushel, as wheat slid 11 percent to $6.92 a bushel.  Six traders and analysts surveyed expect copper to advance
next week, two were bearish and nine neutral. The metal for
delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, dropped 9.5 percent to $7,175.50 a ton this year.  The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials rose as much as 5.4
percent and declined as much as 7.8 percent since the start of
January. A report from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
showed yesterday that manufacturing in  China  strengthened this
month more than economists had expected. The world’s second-biggest economy will expand 7.4 percent next year, the least
since 1990, economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “From a pure fundamental perspective you probably don’t
have major upside at the moment but you don’t have major
downside either,” said Michael Widmer, head of metal markets
research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  London . “The delay
to Fed tapering is probably supportive for commodity prices. On
the macro-economic side you do have a few conflicting signals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  