-- Goldman Billionaire Picks Leading Rally on Profits: India Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-10-24T08:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/goldman-billionaire-picks-leading-rally-on-profits-india-credit.html
Bonds of companies controlled by
billionaires Sunil Mittal and  Mukesh Ambani , added in August to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s most-favored list, helped investors
to the biggest gains in 20 months for  India ’s dollar debt.  Notes of the nation’s issuers returned  5.6 percent  since
Aug. 30, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Asian Credit Index,
poised for the best performance since a 7.9 percent advance in
the first two months of 2012. The premium investors pay over
Treasuries has slid 57 basis points in the period, the biggest
decline after Indonesia and  Pakistan  among 13 Asian markets.  Investors are signaling their faith in Indian borrowers
after the central bank stemmed a rout in the rupee and companies
in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index of shares surpassed or
matched profit forecasts. Indian debt also rallied on bets the
 Federal Reserve  will delay tapering its record stimulus that has
buoyed emerging-market assets.  “There is some positivity after the earnings,” Philipp Good, who manages $800 million including Indian debt in Zurich
at Fisch Asset Management Ltd., said in an Oct. 22 telephone
interview. “Investors are probably of the opinion that
impending risks to India and  emerging markets  have receded,
therefore the bonds become more appealing in the short term.”  Mittal, Ambani  Mittal’s Bharti Airtel Ltd. andAmbani’s Reliance
Industries Ltd. are the only Indian companies on Goldman’s
most-favored list of Asian credit, an Oct. 16 report by the
U.S. bank shows. The lender added them on Aug. 26 amid a selloff
in emerging-market debt triggered by speculation the Fed will
cut its monthly bond purchases.  Bharti’s 5.125 percent notes maturing March 2023 have
returned 6.5 percent this month, data compiled by Bloomberg
show, the most among 67 Indian bonds included in JPMorgan’s
Asian Credit Index. The yield fell to 5.93 percent from a record
8.04 percent on Aug. 22.  Reliance’s 5.4 percent bonds due February 2022 gained 4.3
percent in October, pushing the yield to 4.94 percent from an
unprecedented 6.088 percent on Aug. 22.  Net income at nine 30 Sensex members, including Reliance,
that have published results for the quarter through Sept. 30 met
or beat forecasts, data compiled by Bloomberg show. About half
of them trailed forecasts in the April-June quarter. Bharti
reports Oct. 30.  ‘Some Optimism’  “Earnings have surprised and may have prompted some
rethinking,” M. Narendra, Chairman of Chennai-based Indian
Overseas Bank Ltd., said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“The rupee’s reversal has also brought back some optimism. The
economy and markets were probably not on as weak a footing as
they were made out to be.”  The  average  of insuring bonds eight Indian issuers against
non-payment using credit-default swaps has dropped 58 basis
points from this year’s high of 395 touched last month,
according to CMA data, the day the  Reserve Bank  of India
unexpectedly raised borrowing costs for the first time since
2011. The RBI will raise the  repurchase rate  by 50 basis points,
or 0.50 percentage point, to 8 percent at its Oct. 29 meeting to
contain inflation induced by food prices, Deutsche Bank AG said
in an Oct. 16 report.  The rupee has climbed 12 percent from its record-low
reached on Aug. 28, the most among  Asia ’s 11 most traded
currencies. It was little changed today at 61.56 per dollar as
of 1:54 p.m. Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. Benchmark 10-year sovereign yield fell
four basis points to 8.60 percent.  ‘Risk Events’  While returns on Indian corporate debt have rebounded from
a four-month slump that ended in August, foreign investors still
need to negotiate several “risk events,” Desmond Soon, a
Singapore-based  money manager  at Western Asset Management Co.,
said in an interview yesterday. These include national elections
due in 2014 and the start of the Fed’s tapering, he said  Indian companies have raised $25.6 billion in overseas
loans and bonds this year through Oct. 22, 14 percent more than
a year earlier. HDFC Bank Ltd. completed a $500 million of
three-year notes offering yesterday.  The average yield on Indian dollar debt fell to 5.55
percent on Oct. 23, according to a JPMorgan index, the least
since Aug. 1. That compares a 9.53 percent average for five-year
 rupee notes , indicative yields compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Indian corporate asset prices will benefit as risk
appetite is increasing gradually,” said Zsolt Papp, who helps
oversees $2.6 billion of emerging-market debt at Union Bancaire
Privee in Zurich. “Pessimism is waning.” Non-bank securities
are likely to outperform lenders, he said by phone on Oct. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  