-- Google-Backed Atlantic Cable Shifts Focus to New Jersey
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-10-24T21:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/google-backed-atlantic-cable-shifts-focus-to-new-jersey.html
Atlantic Grid Development LLC, the
company planning an undersea power-transmission line backed by
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , is shifting its goal to moving electricity across
New Jersey instead of connecting offshore wind farms.  Grid operator PJM Interconnection LLC and New Jersey’s
Economic Development Authority are evaluating the project’s
potential to reduce energy costs in the state, Robert Mitchell,
chief executive officer of the developer’s Atlantic Wind
Connection project, said yesterday in an interview.  The project was originally conceived as the backbone for an
anticipated network of wind farms off the U.S. East Coast that’s
still years away. Using the transmission line to move power from
southern New Jersey to the northern part of the state where
energy prices are higher is a goal that’s easier to achieve,
Mitchell said. There are no U.S. offshore wind farms in
operation or under construction.  “Without wind, we discovered that the problems can be
solved by this line,” Mitchell said. “This has been a long-standing issue, probably 25 to 30 years, the lack of adequate
transmission in  New Jersey .”  Construction on the  New Jersey Power Link , the proposed
$1.8 billion first phase of the Atlantic Wind Connection, may
begin as early as 2016 and it could be in service by 2020, he
said. The company  introduced  Oct. 21 an online portal for
businesses to bid for work constructing the line, which will
stretch the length of the state and carry 3,000 megawatts of
electricity.  New Jersey is the most densely populated U.S. state, making
new transmission lines difficult to permit, Mitchell said. It
has the  sixth highest  electricity rates in the nation.  Cost Effectiveness  State officials questioned the value of building an
undersea cable instead of one on land.  “For us, it’s generally about cost effectiveness,” said
New Jersey Rate Counsel Director Stefanie Brand. “It’s hard for
us to support a project like this” because there are less
expensive options.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , who is up for re-election next month and has made  cutting electricity costs  his
top energy policy priority, is “not ready to support it,”
spokesman  Michael Drewniak  said yesterday in an interview.  The U.S. Interior Department supports the undersea project.  “There has been interest in the Atlantic Wind Connection,
developing a backbone, and we certainly stand ready to be a
partner,” Interior Secretary Sarah Jewell in an Oct. 22 speech
at the  American Wind Energy Association ’s Offshore Windpower
2013 conference in Providence,  Rhode Island .  The undersea cable may eventually serve offshore wind
projects and subsequent  phases  of the Atlantic Wind Connection
may connect Delaware, Maryland and Virginia.  In addition to Google,  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  and Elia System
Operator have invested in the project and the company hired
Bechtel Group Inc. in January as the main contractor and  Alstom
SA (ALO)  as a technical adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  