-- Icahn Urges Bigger Buyback at Apple in Letter to CEO Cook
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-10-24T20:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/icahn-urges-bigger-buyback-at-apple-in-letter-to-ceo-cook.html
Carl Icahn , the billionaire activist
investor who has made a career of pushing companies to make
changes to boost shares, published a letter to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook  urging the company’s board to
increase the size of a stock repurchase.  Icahn promised not to tender his shares if Apple agrees to
his proposal to implement a $150 billion repurchase, he said in
the open  letter  that he posted on his website today. The
investor said he has increased his holdings in the company to
4.7 million shares worth $2.5 billion from 3.4 million shares in
August, and added that he intends to buy more of the stock that
he said is undervalued.  “Our criticism relates to one thing only: the size and
time frame of Apple’s buyback program,” Icahn said in the
letter. “It is obvious to us that it should be much bigger and
immediate.”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment.  Icahn is lobbying for a heftier payout just months after
Apple announced a plan for a total of $100 billion in dividends
and buybacks. Apple’s stock has underperformed benchmark indexes
this year amid investor criticism that it hasn’t delivered new
breakthrough products.  The  shares  rose 1.3 percent to $531.91 at the close in  New
York  trading. The  stock  is little changed this year, compared
with a 23 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Long Term  “To invalidate any possible criticism that I would not
stand by this thesis in terms of its long term benefit to
shareholders, I hereby agree to withhold my shares from the
proposed $150 billion tender offer,” Icahn said in the letter.
“There is nothing short term about my intentions here.”  Separately,  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s largest
mutual fund, said in a Twitter posting that Icahn should stop
pushing Apple for additional share repurchases and do more for
charitable causes.  Icahn, speaking in a CNBC interview today, said that he
will continue to tackle what he views as problems in corporate
governance. If Apple doesn’t implement his suggestion, he said
he will consider a proxy fight if he gets enough support from
other shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  