-- ICU Medical Said to End Sale Process After Failing to Find Buyer
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   J o d i   X u   a n d   J o s h u a   F i n e m a n
-- 2013-10-24T18:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/icu-medical-said-to-end-sale-process-after-failing-to-find-buyer.html
ICU Medical Inc. (ICUI) , the producer of
intravenous medical systems that put itself up for sale in May,
has ended the process without finding a buyer, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  ICU, which was working with JPMorgan Chase & Co., held
talks with buyers including private-equity firm  GTCR LLC , one of
the people said, asking not to be identified as the information
is private. In its quarterly report  filed  this week, the San
Clemente, California-based company said it incurred one-time
charges of about $800,000 “associated with a strategic
transaction that did not go forward,” without offering more
details.  GTCR held exclusive talks with ICU in August, people with
knowledge of the matter said at the time. The Chicago-based firm
backed away from the deal because it couldn’t agree on a price
with ICU, one of the people said recently. While there is a
chance a buyer may come back, ICU is not holding active
negotiations with anyone currently, one of the people said.  ICU Chief Financial Officer Scott Lamb, who handles media
inquiries, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the sale process. A spokeswoman for GTCR declined to comment.  ICU fell 6.3 percent, or $4.29, to $63.75 at 1:56 p.m. in
New York today.  Management Change  ICU’s founder George Lopez stepped down from his role as
chief executive officer for health reasons, the company said on
Oct. 21. Lopez, who owns an 11 percent stake in ICU, would be
one of the primary beneficiaries of a sale of the company, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Steven Riggs, vice president of
operations for ICU, will serve as acting CEO, the company said.  ICU got its start almost 30 years ago when Lopez began
working on a device to prevent IV lines from accidentally
disconnecting, the company’s  website  shows. Among its products
is a connector called the Clave, which doctors or nurses use to
attach the feed from a nutrition or saline bag, or a dose of
medicine, into a patient’s IV port, using a sterile, needle-free
connection.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fineman in New York at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  