-- IMF Spurned as Gordhan Dares Ratings Action: South Africa Credit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-10-24T08:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/imf-spurned-as-gordhan-dares-ratings-action-south-africa-credit.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  is spurning the International Monetary Fund’s
advice on debt and risking sovereign downgrades by boosting
borrowing faster than projected to counter falling tax revenue.  Gross government  debt  will increase to 44.8 percent of
economic output this fiscal year, more than the government’s
February estimate of 43.2 percent, Gordhan said yesterday in his
mid-term budget review. That compares with 35.9 percent at the
end of 2012 for similarly rated  Mexico .  South Africa ’s debt will
climb to 47.7 percent of gross domestic product in 2017 before
stabilizing, the Treasury said.  The finance minister is being squeezed by waning tax
collection as government forecasts show economic growth slumping
to 2.1 percent this year, the slowest pace since the 2009
recession. That is forcing him to pile on debt even after the
IMF advised targeting a ratio of 40 percent and Moody’s
Investors Service said failure to curb borrowing would threaten
the nation’s credit rating.  “Gordhan made it very clear that the budget policy
framework for the next three years is designed to manage risk in
a constrained fiscal policy environment,” Arthur Kamp, an
economist at Sanlam Investment Management, which oversees the
equivalent of about $33 billion, said by phone from  Cape Town 
yesterday. “That says he is very aware of the risk of a rating
downgrade.”  Lowering Forecast  With strikes at gold mines and carmakers disrupting output
and a sluggish global economy holding back exports, Gordhan, 64,
cut his 2013 GDP forecast for  Africa ’s largest  economy  from a
February estimate of 2.7 percent and last year’s 2.5 percent
increase. Government debt was 42.4 percent of GDP last year.  Growth will accelerate to 3 percent next year and 3.2
percent in 2015, the Treasury said. With an election six months
away, Gordhan pledged to maintain spending limits, allowing him
to meet this year’s budget deficit target.  The shortfall is estimated to reach 4.2 percent of GDP in
the year through March, unchanged from last year, Gordhan said.
The Treasury restated deficit figures, in line with
international reporting standards, to include extraordinary
receipts, such as profit on bond sales and foreign-currency
transactions. The gap is forecast to narrow to 4.1 percent, 3.8
percent and 3 percent respectively in the next three fiscal
years.  Borrowing Requirement  “We feel that our debt ratios are still OK,” Lungisa Fuzile, director-general at the National Treasury, said in an
interview yesterday. “If the growth rate normalizes at 3
percent-plus, and we stick to the spending ceiling, we should
very quickly reach a peak and stabilize.”  While tax collection this year will fall a “minuscule” 3
billion rand short of February’s projection of 899 billion rand,
downward revisions of revenue in subsequent years will probably
be “significant,” boosting the government’s borrowing
requirement, Fuzile said.  The rand has declined 13 percent this year, the most of 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency gained less
than 0.1 percent to 9.7915 per dollar as of 10:03 a.m. in
Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due Dec.
2026 dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage points, to
7.69 percent. The yield has increased 44 basis points since
Gordhan’s February budget speech.  Implementation Risks  Moody’s downgrade came a month before Gordhan’s 2012 mid-term budget and was followed by rating cuts from Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. Moody’s ranks South African debt at
Baa1, the third-lowest investment grade and on par with Thailand
and  Russia . S&P downgraded the nation in October last year to
BBB, its second-lowest investment grade, and Fitch followed with
a similar cut in January. Moody’s and S&P have a negative
outlook on the rating, indicating they may lower it further.  “It’s too early really to take a different stance on the
potential risks we have outlined in our negative outlook,”
Konrad Reuss, head of S&P’s sub-Saharan African unit, said by
phone from Cape Town yesterday. “The economic situation is very
tricky, very challenging. With regard to the budget this year
and next year, there are certain implementation risks which
still should be reflected in a negative outlook.”  South Africa’s debt metrics don’t warrant the negative
outlook, Gordhan said in an interview with Radio 702 in
Johannesburg yesterday.  Negative Outlook  “Konrad unfortunately has a rather negative view on South
Africa, and I’m not sure why he lives here,” Gordhan said on
Radio 702. “What the rating agencies need to be reminded about
is that we are not in the same situation as countries with a 180
percent, with a 200 percent debt burden, and we’ll get our act
together.”  Moody’s New York-based Senior Vice President Kristin Lindow
didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed questions. Axel
Schimmelpfennig, the IMF’s senior representative in South
Africa, also declined to comment.  The lower GDP forecasts point to potential challenges for
the government, said  Carmen Altenkirch , Fitch’s London-based
South Africa analyst.  “Further downward revisions to growth forecasts highlight
the increasingly difficult environment the South African fiscal
authorities face in balancing fiscal prudence against the need
for counter-cyclical policy, and the economic and social
challenges the authorities will face if growth continues to
stagnate,” Altenkirch said in e-mailed statement.  Fiscal Slippage  The mid-term budget showed “little evidence of fiscal
slippage related to” spending increases, Michael Grobler, who
helps manage the equivalent of about $430 million in fixed-income assets at Atlantic Asset Management in Cape Town, said in
an e-mail. “That should lessen the risk of a near-term
sovereign credit rating downgrade. The concern for me is the
higher debt-to-GDP profile that puts the risk of a rating
downgrade on the table beyond next year’s election.”  Investor perceptions of South African credit risk are
increasing. The cost of insuring the nation’s dollar debt
against default for five years rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, yesterday to 173. The contracts have gained 31
basis points this year. The  extra yield  investors demand to hold
South Africa’s dollar bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries climbed
98 basis points to 261 in the period.  “Those slippages are not the result, as some would like to
believe, of excessive spending or, as some  ratings agencies  say,
populist pressure, but rather events that have objectively taken
place in the economy, which have resulted in lower revenue,”
Gordhan told reporters in Cape Town before his speech yesterday.
“We are running a sustainable fiscal ship and hopefully the
ratings agencies will do their homework.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  