-- Inbursa Said Seeking to Buy Standard Bank’s Brazil Unit
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-10-24T20:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/inbursa-said-seeking-to-buy-standard-bank-s-brazil-unit.html
Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB (GFINBURO) , the
bank controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , is in talks to buy
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ’s Brazil unit for about 130 million
reais ($59.3 million), two people with direct knowledge of the
negotiations said.  Acquiring a bank is the easiest way to get a license and
enter the Brazilian market, said one of the people, who
requested anonymity because the talks are private.  “Standard Bank Group has already announced that its
strategy is to reduce capital outside the African continent,”
the Johannesburg-based company said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “So, it is not strange that international banks that
want to enter Brazil will sound out possibilities with Standard
Bank. But the bank doesn’t comment on market rumors.”  Banco Standard de Investimentos SA, as the  Brazil  unit is
known, had 500 million reais of  assets  in the country as of
June, 82 percent less than the 2.9 billion reais reported a year
earlier, according to central bank data. Total capital decreased
60 percent to 130 million reais.  Inbursa, a lender to businesses and consumers with
operations that are mostly concentrated in Mexico, is making
more investments abroad. Its participation in a syndicated loan
to YPF SA resulted in Inbursa receiving shares last year after
the Argentine oil producer defaulted.  Inbursa fell 2.8 percent to 32.22 pesos at the close in
Mexico City. The shares have dropped 18 percent this year.  Slim, 73, the world’s second-richest person, owns a
majority stake in Mexico City-based Inbursa valued at $9.67
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Arturo Elias ,
a spokesman for Slim, declined to comment.  Metals, Derivatives  Standard Bank, led by Joint Chief Executive Officers Sim Tshabalala and Ben Kruger, established an office in Sao Paulo in
1998 and eventually employed more than 100 people there,
according to the company’s website. The Brazil unit has been
involved in structured finance, metals trading, commodity
finance, foreign-exchange transactions and derivatives trading.  In 2011, Standard began unwinding its expansion strategy in
 emerging markets  and announced asset sales in Russia, Turkey and
Argentina to raise cash for investment in Africa.  In December, it completed the sale of 80 percent of its
Argentine division for about $400 million to  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398)  ICBC, which owns 20 percent of
Standard, is expanding in  Latin America . It opened in Peru in
November and received authorization to open a bank in Brazil a
month later.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is advising Standard Bank and
Grupo BTG Pactual is working with Inbursa, the person said.
 Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment, as did an official for Sao Paulo-based BTG,
asking not be identified in keeping with company policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  