-- India’s Nifty Futures Fluctuate After Index Drops to 1-Week Low
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-10-24T02:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/india-s-nifty-futures-fluctuate-after-index-drops-to-1-week-low.html
Indian stock-index futures swung
between gains and losses after the benchmark index declined to a
one-week low yesterday.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for October delivery added 0.1
percent to 6,197.5 at 10:08 a.m. in Singapore after losing as
much as 0.2 percent. The underlying CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index fell 0.4
percent to 6,178.35 yesterday. The S&P BSE Sensex declined 0.5
percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-
traded shares dropped 1.3 percent.  The Sensex fell for two straight days through yesterday,
after climbing to the highest level in almost three years on
Oct. 21 as earnings at companies in the index beat analysts’
forecasts, and on speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will
maintain economic stimulus. International investors were net
buyers of Indian stocks for a 13th day on Oct. 22, the longest
series of purchases since May.  “We are in a liquidity-driven market and we can see a
further rally and maybe a new high,” Mehraboon Irani, principal
and head of private client group at Nirmal Bang Securities Ltd.,
said in an interview on Bloomberg TV India yesterday. “In the
past three months, we have moved from acute pessimism to
complete complacency.”  Global investors bought a net $129.5 million of stocks on
Oct. 22, data from the regulator showed yesterday. That took
this year’s inflows to a net $15.2 billion, the second-highest
after Japan among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Capital Inflows  Overseas investors have bought a net $1.79 billion of local
shares this month, adding to inflows of $2 billion in September,
data from the market regulator show.  The Sensex has risen 6.9 percent this year and is  valued  at
14 times estimated 12-month profits, compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.7 times.  Profits at all nine of the 30 Sensex companies that have
reported earnings so far this season have beaten or matched
estimates, compared with 47 percent that missed forecasts in the
June quarter.  Shares of government-run lenders including  State Bank of
India  may move after the  Finance Ministry  said yesterday that
that will receive a 140 billion-rupee ($2.3 billion) capital
infusion to guard against soured loans in a slowing economy.  The recapitalization of state-controlled banks will enable
them to raise money through share sales, Rajiv Takru, the
Finance Ministry’s banking secretary, said in  New Delhi .  State
Bank of India (SBIN)  will receive 20 billion rupees, while  IDBI Bank
Ltd. (IDBI)  and  Central Bank of India  will get 18 billion rupees each,
he said. Bad debt as a percentage of  Indian (SENSEX)  bank lending rose to
a six-year high in June, central bank data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  