-- Toughest Bank Rules Are Beneficial for Funding, Ingves Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-10-25T09:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/ingves-says-higher-swedish-capital-requirements-no-harm-to-banks.html
Sweden ’s growing capital
requirements are helping the nation’s banks fund themselves at
more competitive rates than some of their European peers,
Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves said.  “There are other banks in Europe that have all sorts of
issues and that can’t really fund themselves in the same way, so
it’s hard to argue that raising capital on Swedish banks has
hurt them,” Ingves, who also heads the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , said yesterday in an interview in
Stockholm. “It’s actually, I think, the other way around.”  The comments signal that global regulators won’t be swayed
by bank industry complaints that stricter capital requirements
are hurting their ability to do business. Sweden sets tougher
regulatory standards than most other nations in an effort to
rein in an industry that has grown to about four times the size
of the $540 billion economy.  Swedish lenders, including  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and
 Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , are now the best-capitalized major banks in Europe.
Handelsbanken boasts the lowest credit-default swaps in Europe
among major banks, at about 59 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Swaps on  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  trade at 68,
while SEB AB is at 90 and Swedbank at 95. By comparison, HSBC
Bank Plc and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  trade at 85 basis points and
82 basis points, respectively.  Lending Growth  Sweden’s four biggest banks need to hold at least 12
percent core Tier 1 capital of their risk-weighted assets by
2015, a ratio they already all exceed. Handelsbanken’s capital
ratio was 19.3 percent at the end of September, the bank said
this week.  Sweden’s efforts to ensure its banks are well-capitalized
go beyond setting  reserve requirements . Other measures include a
cap on mortgage lending, while risk weights on mortgage assets
were tripled this year. Though the steps initially helped slow
loan growth, borrowing has again accelerated and  house prices 
are still climbing. That’s left Swedes with a record debt load
equivalent to more than 170 percent of their disposable incomes.  Swedish  credit growth  held at a 2013-high of 4.8 percent
for a third consecutive month in September,  Statistics Sweden 
said today. Swedish apartment prices rose 14 percent in the 12
months through August after having more than doubled since 2000.  The Riksbank said yesterday Sweden’s private debt ratio
will rise to 177 percent in the fourth quarter of 2015. The bank
left its main lending rate unchanged at 1 percent, and said it’s
still monitoring  household debt  levels.  ‘Wrong Tool’  Banks including Nordea, the largest Nordic lender, and
Swedbank, Sweden’s biggest mortgage bank, have argued that
addressing supply imbalances in the  property market  is a better
way to cool house prices than raising buffer requirements.  “Just to increase  capital ratios  is the wrong tool,”
Nordea Chief Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  said this week
in an interview in Stockholm. “If you have too little
construction of new homes and you have too much demand, then
there is an imbalance, and that has nothing to do with credit
supply.”  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg , who last month told
banks to prepare for years of regulatory tightening, in August
handed authority for safeguarding financial stability to the
Financial Supervisory Authority instead of the Riksbank.  Ingves, who has argued for risk weights of 35 percent on
mortgage assets compared with the regulator’s decision to set
them at 15 percent, said he would have liked to be in charge of
financial stability in Sweden.  Global Markets  While the biggest risk to the Nordic nation stems from
global markets, another issue “is of course household debt and
finding ways to ensure that household debt doesn’t go up,”
Ingves said. “We would be better off if we had a better handle
on that issue, but given now that the FSA will take on the
macro-prudential issues, I assume that measures will be taken in
such a way that we get a good grip on what happens on the
household debt side.”  If that happens, the bank will have more “degrees of
freedom” in setting rates, he said.  Sweden has signaled it will next year add a countercyclical
buffer to its  capital requirements . The FSA has also threatened
to impose rules that force banks to require home owners to
amortize their loans.  Most of the macro-prudential tools haven’t been
incorporated into the Riksbank’s rate forecast, Ingves said.  “We’re working hard on actually including these types of
things in the models, but in the end, we’re talking about six
individuals who decide,” he said, referring to the Riksbank’s
board. “ Monetary policy  is sometimes less model-dependent than
maybe some people think.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  