-- Iraq Plans Bond as 3.3 Million Barrels a Day Gushes: Arab Credit
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-10-24T13:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/iraq-plans-bond-as-3-3-million-barrels-a-day-gushes-arab-credit.html
Iraq plans to sell bonds for the
first time since 2006 as surging oil revenue pushes borrowing
costs lower even as sectarian violence in the nation escalates.  “We formed a committee to decide on the details for the
 bond issue , which will most probably be of medium- to long-term
maturity,” Deputy Finance Minister Fadhel Nabi said in an Oct.
22 phone interview from  Baghdad . “The joint committee from the
 Finance Ministry  and the central bank will also decide on the
timing, which can be within a year,” he said, declining to give
more details.  Iraq, with the world’s fifth-largest oil reserves, boosted
income from crude sales by 23 percent from June to August and
earned $6.5 billion in September, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The country is pumping 3.3 million barrels a day amid
attacks that killed more people in the first nine months of this
year than in all of 2012. Government debt as share of gross
domestic product should drop to 25 percent this year from about
800 percent a decade ago,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  said Oct. 20.  The  extra yield investors demand  to hold Iraq’s dollar
bonds rather than Treasuries has tumbled 143 basis points, or
1.43 percentage points, since this year’s June 25 peak to 510
basis points today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global indexes. The spread between Treasuries and Middle Eastern
bonds  narrowed  by 37 basis points in the period.  Attractive Yield  “Iraq’s yield is very attractive, underpinned by strong
government finances and a fiscal position,” said Ahmad Alanani,
Dubai-based director for the Middle East at Exotix Ltd. “I’d
take Iraq risk today over some of the more vulnerable places in
the Middle East.”  The yield on Iraq’s 5.8 percent dollar bond maturing in
January 2028 dropped to 7.277 percent today from a high for this
year of 8.803 percent on June 24, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bond began trading at about 9 percent in 2006.  Iraq issued $2.7 billion in securities to help restructure
debt accumulated during the era of former President  Saddam Hussein . The bond is the country’s only dollar-denominated debt
and equates to about 1.2 percent of 2012 gross domestic product,
Geoffrey Batt, managing director of the $82 million Euphrates
Iraq Fund, said in an Oct. 22 e-mail.  “It’s tiny compared to Iraq’s financial resources, and
there’s little doubt the country can meet its obligations,” he
said.  Easier Borrowing  As  government borrowing  continues falling as a share of
GDP, Iraq may find it easier to return to  capital markets ,
particularly for long-term infrastructure projects,  Standard
Chartered  said in its report this week.  Nabi, the deputy finance minister, confirmed in his
interview that Iraq’s next bond would help pay to rebuild
infrastructure damaged by decades of war and sanctions.  Even so, the government’s plan for a second bond is less
than certain. Iraq said more than two years ago, in July 2011,
that it would come to market in a year.  Iraq’s efforts to rebuild its economy 10 years after the
U.S.-led invasion that ousted Hussein are hobbled by political
in-fighting and sectarian strife. A dispute between the central
government and the semi-autonomous Kurdish region led the Kurds
to suspend oil exports through a national pipeline in December.  Growth Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  scaled back its forecast
for Iraq’s 2013 economic growth rate to 3.7 percent from an
initial estimate of 9 percent, according to the IMF’s website.
The economy will still expand fast enough to lead the  Middle
East  by 2018 with projected growth of 9.6 percent, the IMF said.  Car-bombings and other acts of violence, aggravated by the
civil war in neighboring  Syria , have intensified this year,
leaving about 5,740 people dead through September, according to
the United Nations Assistance Mission in Iraq. The Iraq Body
Count, an unofficial website, estimates that 4,574 were killed
in all of 2012.  “There is an element of investor complacency or apathy,”
said Alanani of Exotix. “Investors are shrugging away all the
violence and disturbances.”  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  OAO Lukoil (LKOH)  and other  oil companies 
helped Iraq boost production by 24 percent in 2012 and become
the second-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. The government is increasing spending by 18
percent this year to $118 billion.  Iraq  is poised to restore export capacity to about 2.5
million barrels a day from its southern port of Basra, after
maintenance work and bad weather cut shipments, Deputy Prime
Minister Hussain Al-Shahristani said Oct. 16. It will increase
this capacity to 4 million barrels by the end of March after
completing a fourth floating terminal, he said.  “Despite the violence, the market can absorb a new
issuance from Iraq, and there will be demand for it,” Alanani
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  