-- Israeli Negotiator Livni Says Peace Crucial for Israeli Economy
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-10-24T15:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/israeli-negotiator-livni-says-peace-crucial-for-israeli-economy.html
Israel’s chief negotiator with the
Palestinians said a peace accord is critical to the country’s
economic growth, which has slowed after a rise in the currency
cut exports.  “We don’t want to be an isolated island,” said Justice
Minister  Tzipi Livni , who has six months to reach an agreement
with the Palestinians under a timetable set by U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  when he initiated the talks in July.
“Stalemate and stagnation led and can lead in the future” to
economic decline, she said.  Speaking alongside Livni at a conference in Herzliya,
Israel, Finance Minister Yair Lapid called for a map delineating
“the final borders” of a Palestinian state, and said “tens of
thousands of settlers” would have to be evacuated from the West
Bank under an accord. He also set a condition the Palestinians
have rejected: No partitioning of  Jerusalem , whose eastern
sector Israel captured in 1967 along with the  West Bank , and
which they claim for a future capital.  Kerry and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  met for
almost seven hours in  Rome  yesterday, and both said they had a
thorough talk about the negotiations. The secretary of state
also briefed Netanyahu on talks with  Iran  to limit its uranium
enrichment program because of suspicions the Persian Gulf nation
may develop nuclear weapons.  Linkage Made  Netanyahu linked the two issues, saying that easing
pressure on Iran to dismantle its nuclear problem would make it
harder for Israel to deliver compromises needed for peace with
the Palestinians. He emphasized to Kerry the importance of
stringent security arrangements for Israel, because instability
in the West Bank could cause Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas 
to lose control, as happened in the  Gaza Strip , now ruled by the
militant Hamas group.  Israel endured two years of recession and a longer period
of sluggish growth after the Palestinians mounted their second
major uprising, known as the intifada, in 2001. Growth has
lagged this year as the shekel has gained about 6 percent
against the dollar, making it the strongest of 31 major
currencies. Lapid noted the difficulty for Israeli exporters and
said he will work with designated Bank of Israel Governor Karnit Flug to combat the shekel’s gains.  The currency weakened after Lapid’s remarks, declining as
much as 0.5 percent before trimming the decline to 0.1 percent
at 3.5235 at 17:17 p.m. in Tel Aviv. It had appreciated as much
as 0.3 percent before the minister spoke.  Amid the disagreements over Jerusalem, security
arrangements, final borders and West Bank settlements, Israeli
President  Shimon Peres  said he still believes Abbas will
ultimately reach an agreement with Netanyahu.  “I’m not saying he agrees with us, but there is enough to
bring the sides together, Peres said at the conference, which
was organized by the Jerusalem Post newspaper.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Rome at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  