-- Ivory Coast Cocoa Cooperatives Delay Buying on Funding Troubles
-- B y   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-10-24T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/ivory-coast-cocoa-cooperatives-delay-buying-on-funding-troubles.html
Cocoa farmer cooperatives in  Ivory
Coast , the world’s biggest producer, say a shortage of funds to
buy beans from growers is slowing shipments to ports.  “Our members want to see cash when we arrive to purchase
their beans,” Maurice Sawadogo, head of an association of 950
growers near the eastern town of Indenie-Duablin, said by phone
Oct. 22. “We can’t get credit from the bank.”  Cooperatives in the West African nation sell about 30
percent of the nation’s crop. The rest is handled by middlemen
who buy the beans from farmers and deliver it to traders. Banks
remain reluctant to provide cooperatives with credit, Fulgence
N’Guessan, the head of a group of 400 cooperatives said by phone
Oct. 21.  “Cooperatives can’t survive without a minimum of cash,”
N’Guessan.  The main  harvest  began this month after the government
announced a minimum farm-gate price of 750  CFA francs  per
kilogram. Most of the crop for the 2013-2014 season was sold via
an auction in the first half of this year, reaching 1.18 million
metric tons by the end of August. The cooperative Sawadogo runs
has stocked 200 tons this season, less than half of the 500 tons
a year earlier.  Before 2011, some cooperatives received funding from state
agencies to pay cash to cocoa growers.  Government Aid  “The cooperatives will get government support after the
census of producers has started,” Bruno Kone, a government
spokesman, said by phone from Abidjan yesterday.  Cocoa for March delivery dropped 1.7 percent at 4:12 p.m.
yesterday on the NYSE Liffe in  London .  In the southwestern town of Meagui, buyers are waiting for
a cash advance from exporting partners before they start
collecting beans from farmers, Alexandre Gnande, head of a
growers’ association in Meagui, said by phone Oct. 22.  “We have two types of problems: we lack funds, and locally
there is a shortage of trucks,” he said. “We haven’t bought
any beans yet but we stay optimistic and believe we can do it
next month.”  Bean deliveries to ports were estimated at 106,000 tons to
Oct. 20, more than double the amount in the same period last
year, according to KnowledgeCharts, a unit of Commodities Risk
Analysis based in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania .  Cash Needed  Unlike cooperatives, independent buyers have a lot of cash
at the start of the season to pay farmers directly at the farm
gate, Salam Pelegram, head of a cooperative, said by phone.  “The  cocoa beans  are leaving the bush, but cooperatives
can’t buy them,” he said. “Last year we did 1,000 tons in the
first half of October, this year, we barely reached 350 tons.
The government needs to help us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Rotterdam at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan at 
 bmieu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  