-- J&J-Medivir Hepatitis C Pills Wins U.S. Panel Backing
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-24T20:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/j-j-medivir-hepatitis-c-pills-wins-u-s-panel-backing.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and Medivir’s
experimental hepatitis C treatment should be approved, advisers
to the U.S. government said, propelling the companies into a
position to enter a competitive market for new drugs.  The  Food and Drug Administration ’s 19-member advisory panel
unanimously recommended the therapy, known as simeprevir, be
used in combination with other medicines for the most common
form of hepatitis C. The FDA, which doesn’t have to follow the
panel’s advice, is expected to decide on the drug by Nov. 27.  J&J, Medivir,  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  and  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  are
among companies developing new pills for hepatitis C to
alleviate the burden of current treatments, including interferon
injections, which can cause flu-like symptoms. The market for
hepatitis C drugs may reach more than $100 billion over a
decade, according to Bloomberg Industries. Advisers tomorrow
will consider a hepatitis C therapy from Gilead.  “As someone who treats patients with chronic hepatitis C
every day, I think this regimen represents a much safer one and
a much simpler one than what’s currently existing,”  Marc Ghany ,
a panel member and physician in the liver diseases branch of the
National Institute of Diabetes, Digestive and Kidney Diseases,
said after the vote.  The panel discussed a recommendation made by FDA staff and
supported by J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , to screen
potential simeprevir patients for a genetic mutation called Q80K
polymorphism that renders the drug ineffective.  Genetic Defect  The Q80K polymorphism was found in 48 percent of U.S.
patients with a genotype 1a hepatitis C infection in clinical
trials compared with 19 percent of patients in  Europe , J&J said.
The mutation is almost nonexistent in those with a genotype 1b
infection.  A study of an all-oral combination of simeprevir with
Gilead’s sofosbuvir has shown that the regimen mitigates the
effect Q80K has on simeprevir, Gaston Picchio, hepatitis disease
area leader at J&J’s Janssen unit, said during the meeting.  Data from the study is expected to be released in November
at the  American Association  for the Study of Liver Diseases’
annual conference in Washington.  J&J, the world’s biggest  seller  of health-care products,
and Medivir, based in Huddinge,  Sweden , are seeking approval for
their once-daily pill to treat chronic hepatitis C patients with
the genotype 1 infection. About 70 percent of U.S. patients have
the genotype 1 form of the disease. Hepatitis C is divided into
6 genotypes.  Patient Population  About 4 million Americans have the disease, which can cause
liver cirrhosis, according to the  National Institutes of Health .
Hepatitis C can be passed through infected blood or body fluids,
most commonly through needle-sharing by drug users.  Treatment for patients now includes interferon and a pill
called ribavirin. Most patients take the combination with Merck
& Co.’s Victrelis or  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ’s Incivek for
as long as 48 weeks. Simeprevir is in a class of drugs called
protease inhibitors that also include Victrelis and Incivek.  Clinical trials found simeprevir can reduce treatment time
in half to 24 weeks. The medicine cured about 80 percent of
patients who hadn’t been treated before compared with 50 percent
of those who took pegylated interferon and ribavirin. Seventy-nine percent of simeprevir users who failed other treatments
were cured compared with 37 percent who took only the older
drugs, according to J&J.  The most common major side effects of simeprevir were rash
and photosensitivity. Panel members agreed with the FDA that the
prescribing information for the drug should include a
recommendation for patients to use sun protection and avoid
tanning beds.  The drug from  Foster City , California-based Gilead that
advisers will weigh tomorrow, sofosbuvir, may be the first to
market in a new class of drugs called nucleotide polymerase
inhibitors. Sofosbuvir is effective across all genotypes and can
shrink treatment time to 12 weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  