-- Japan Price Gauge Stops Slide as Abe Drives Pickup
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-10-25T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/japan-s-consumer-prices-rise-at-close-to-fastest-pace-since-2008.html
A gauge of  Japan ’s  prices (JCPNEFEY)  ended four
years of declines, signaling progress in Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to stamp out deflation and drive a sustained
economic revival.  Prices excluding energy and fresh food were unchanged from
a year earlier, after sliding every month since December 2008,
the statistics bureau said today in  Tokyo . That matched the
median forecast of 19 economists in a  Bloomberg News  survey.  Advances in countering falling prices may help Abe sustain
confidence in the nation’s recovery and encourage companies to
raise wages as a sales-tax increase planned for April threatens
to deal a blow to consumption. Fiscal and monetary stimulus are
underpinning a revival in the world’s third-biggest economy
after 15 years of deflation.  “Today’s data show that an entrenched deflationary trend
is coming closer to ending,” Akiyoshi Takumori, chief economist
at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “Wage growth
will be key to cushioning the price increases.”  The yen rose 0.2 percent against the dollar as of 3:50
p.m., and the Topix index slipped 2.1 percent.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the
world’s biggest camera maker, cut its profit forecast yesterday.  The end of the slide in prices excluding energy and fresh
food is “a mark we have to pass on the way to ending
deflation,” Japanese Economy Minister Akira Amari told
reporters in Tokyo today after the report.  Core Gains  Consumer prices excluding fresh food rose 0.7 percent from
a year earlier, a fourth straight gain and matching the median
estimate of economists. The  Bank of Japan  focuses on this gauge
as its key measure, with board members seeing a 0.6 percent gain
this fiscal year, and 1.9 percent in the year starting April
2015, according to their median forecast in July. They will
update their outlooks at a meeting next week.  Abe and the central bank are targeting 2 percent inflation.  Regular wages excluding overtime and bonuses  declined  0.6
percent in August from a year earlier, a 15th straight drop. Abe
said in parliament yesterday he would continue asking companies
to raise salaries.  Gasoline prices rose to 161.4 yen ($1.66) per liter last
month, the highest level since 2008, according to the  trade
ministry . They stood at 160.1 yen this week. Demand for liquid
natural gas may rise as the nation enters colder months without
any nuclear plants in operation, pushing up electricity costs,
according to the meteorological agency.  Bonito Fish  Processed-food maker Ajinomoto Co. says it will raise
prices of some items by 6 percent to 7 percent from January
because of the rising cost of bonito fish and the weaker yen.  Elsewhere today in the Asia-Pacific region,  South Korea 
said the economy expanded a more-than-forecast 1.1 percent in
the third quarter from the previous period. The  Philippines  said
imports rose 6.9 percent in August from a year earlier, a slower
pace than in July.  In  Europe , a German index of business confidence, the Ifo
institute’s business climate index, probably rose for a sixth
month in October, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The U.S. will see reports on
durable-goods orders for September and October  consumer
confidence .  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Mayger in Tokyo at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  