-- Japanese City Said to Weigh $1.2 Billion Airport Concession Sale
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2013-10-24T02:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/japanese-city-said-to-weigh-1-2-billion-airport-concession-sale.html
Fukuoka prefecture on  Japan ’s
southern Kyushu island is considering a sale of rights to
operate the nation’s fourth-biggest state-owned airport, said
four people with knowledge of the matter.  Proceeds from selling the  Fukuoka Airport  concession may
top 120 billion yen ($1.2 billion), said two of the people, who
asked not to be identified as the deliberations are private.
Fukuoka’s city and prefectural governments are discussing
whether to proceed with a sale, two people said.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government in June unveiled a
plan to raise as much as 3 trillion yen over the next decade by
selling rights to run airports and other public facilities. The
sales are part of Abe’s efforts to reduce Japan’s debt and boost
investment by private companies.  Japan has 27 state-run airports, the biggest of which is
 Tokyo International Airport , also known as Haneda.  Spokesmen for the Fukuoka government and the land ministry
overseeing airport operations declined to comment.  Fukuoka, with a population of 5.1 million, would follow
Sendai in Japan’s northeastern Miyagi prefecture in seeking
money from an airport concession sale. The land ministry plans
to hire a financial adviser early next year to oversee an
auction for rights to operate the Sendai Airport, one of the
people said.  Fukuoka Airport handled 17.4 million passengers in 2012,
ranking it fourth among Japan’s state-run airports, according to
the prefectural government’s data. Some 66.7 million people
traveled through Haneda, more than double the number for the
second largest, Narita outside  Tokyo . New Chitose airport in
Hokkaido was third with 17.5 million.  Second Runway  Fukuoka plans to spend 180 billion yen to build a second
runway to meet an expected surge in traffic from  Southeast Asia 
and  China , according to the local government’s website. No
timetable for completing the project has been set, the website
shows.  Runway operations at state-owned airports are currently
managed by the national government, while airport terminal
buildings are operated by companies jointly owned by regional
governments and private enterprises, according to the land
ministry. Japan aims to combine runway and terminal operations
and privatize them.  The upper house of the Diet in June approved legislation
proposing to allow private companies to operate public airports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  