-- Japan’s Meiji to Stop Baby Formula Sales in China on Competition
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-10-24T16:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/japan-s-meiji-to-stop-baby-formula-sales-in-china-on-competition.html
Meiji Co., the Japanese confectioner
and dairy products  maker , said it will stop selling baby formula
in  China  due to rising material costs and intensified
competition in the world’s most populous nation.  “There are so many players in the market,” Junji Ohashi,
a spokesman for parent  Meiji Holdings Co. (2269) , said by phone
yesterday. “Our sales fell to one third of the peak in 2009.”  China’s baby food market is dominated by Western and local
brands such as  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , Hangzhou Beingmate
Group Co. and Danone. Meiji didn’t rank in the top 10 milk
formula brands in the country last year, according to a
Euromonitor International analysis of market share in the
country.  China in August fined six dairy companies including Mead
Johnson and Danone a combined 670 million  yuan  ($110 million)
for price fixing, a record penalty for violating anti-monopoly
laws. While Meiji was also probed, the company wasn’t fined
because it cooperated with the investigation, it said in August.  The decision to suspend infant-formula sales isn’t related
to the probe, Ohashi said. The company doesn’t disclose sales in
China and it only accounts for a small percentage of total
sales, Meiji Holdings spokeswoman Sayo Chiba said by phone.  The company will suspend sales as soon as the inventory
clears, another spokesman Masanobu Nakamura said. The group
continues to sell other products including snacks and ice cream
in China, he said.  Meiji Holdings’ sales rose 1.6 percent to 1.13 trillion yen
($11.6 billion) for the year ended March. Net income more than
doubled to 16.6 billion yen.  Mead Johnson ranked first in China’s milk-formula market
with a 14 percent share last year and Hangzhou Beingmate Group
was No. 2 with 10 percent, Euromonitor said. Danone was third
with a 9.2 percent market share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  