-- Jet Airways Declines After Record Quarterly Loss: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-10-24T05:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/jet-airways-declines-after-record-quarterly-loss-mumbai-mover.html
Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the
nation’s biggest publicly traded carrier, declined the most in
almost two months in Mumbai trading after reporting a record
quarterly loss as demand declined and fuel costs increased.  Jet  fell  as much as 6.4 percent, headed for the most since
Aug. 28. The shares traded at 333.95 rupees, or down 3.6
percent, as of 11:26 a.m. in Mumbai. The carrier yesterday
reported a wider-than-estimated  loss  of 8.91 billion rupees
($145 million).  “The weakening rupee raised costs significantly during
this lean season,” said Rashesh Shah, an analyst at
ICICIdirect.com. “At the same time, the company gave out
discounts to lure consumers and because of this the yields have
taken a big hit.”  The rupee declined more than 15 percent against the U.S.
dollar in the 12 months ended Sept. 30. Jet filled 78.2 percent
of its seats, according to a  presentation  on its website.  The carrier’s loss widened from 997 million rupees in the
second quarter last year. The loss in the three months ended
Sept. 30 was expected at 4.65 billion rupees, according to four
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The year-end holiday season is typically the busiest period
of the year for airlines, and Jet’s performance will probably
improve as the rupee has strengthened, Shah said.  India ’s cabinet on Oct. 3 cleared a proposal by Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways to buy a 24 percent stake in Jet, paving
the way for the first share sale by a carrier in the Asian
country to a foreign airline since restrictions were eased. Jet
is seeking funds to add aircraft and pare debt after six years
of losses caused by fuel costs and competition from discount
carriers.  Rising travel has prompted both  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and
 AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  to tie up with Mumbai-based Tata Group this year to
set up ventures in the South Asian nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  