-- JPMorgan Said to See Possible Accord on Madoff Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-10-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/jpmorgan-said-to-see-possible-u-s-accord-on-madoff-scheme-role.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , under siege on
multiple fronts by state and federal prosecutors investigating
alleged wrongdoing at the largest  U.S. bank , is in talks with
federal prosecutors in  New York  to resolve allegations it helped
facilitate  Bernard Madoff ’s crimes.  The probe by  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara is tied
to how the bank handled the funds of the convicted money manager
and whether it turned a blind eye to his multibillion-dollar
fraud, the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history.  The case may end in a deferred prosecution agreement, a
person familiar with the matter said. Under such an agreement,
the government agrees not to pursue prosecution for a period of
time and dismiss the charges if the entity or individual
improves its programs or complies with the law. It is one of the
options U.S. authorities have discussed with the bank, including
resolving the matter with just a fine, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  JPMorgan is in the midst of negotiating the terms of a
tentative $13 billion accord with the  Justice Department  to
resolve state and federal civil investigations tied to
residential mortgage backed securities and the collapse of the
housing market that led to the 2008 financial crisis.  Legal Issues  The record mortgage settlement would help remove one of
several legal issues facing the bank and its chief executive
officer,  Jamie Dimon , who has personally negotiated terms of the
record deal with U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, another
person familiar with that agreement said.  JPMorgan, which has $23 billion in legal reserves, is
trying to close as many investigations and outstanding lawsuits
as it can before the end of the year, executives have said.  The New York Times reported earlier that a deferred
prosecution deal in the Madoff probe was possible and said the
discussions are preliminary. The government hasn’t decided what
action to take against the bank, the person said.  “The firm is responding to various governmental
investigations relating to Madoff, including by the  Department
of Justice  and other regulators,” the bank said in a securities
filing in August. JPMorgan was the primary banker for Madoff’s
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, or BLMIS, for more
than 20 years.  Manhattan Prosecutor  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for the bank, declined to
comment on the Madoff probe.  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for Bharara, declined to comment
on JPMorgan’s talks with the Manhattan prosecutor regarding the
Madoff fraud. Madoff, who pleaded guilty in 2009, is serving a
150-year prison term.  At least eight people, in addition to Madoff, have pleaded
guilty to charges stemming from the case. Five former Madoff
employees, who have pleaded not guilty, are currently on trial
in federal court in New York, accused of conspiring for decades
to hide Madoff’s fraud by creating millions of fake documents to
trick customers and regulators.  In their criminal investigation, prosecutors have available
to them documents and other evidence assembled by  Irving Picard ,
the trustee in charge of liquidating Madoff’s accounts. He sued
JPMorgan, seeking damages for its alleged role in helping the
con man carry out his fraud scheme.  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, declined to comment
on the federal probe.  Picard sued JPMorgan in December 2010, accusing the bank of
aiding Madoff’s fraud. The lawsuit, eventually demanding $19
billion, the largest of Picard’s claims against a U.S. bank, 
was largely dismissed in November 2011. Picard unsuccessfully 
challenged the dismissal and other bank claims with the federal 
appeals court in Manhattan, and then asked the U.S. Supreme 
Court to consider the cases.  Suspicious Employees  According to the trustee’s complaint, JPMorgan “had
financial reports in its possession that clearly evidenced
fraud,” David J. Sheehan, lead counsel for Picard and a partner
at Baker & Hostetler LLP, said in a February 2011 statement.  JPMorgan benefited from Madoff accounts while it “helped
perpetuate Madoff’s fraud by ignoring the red flags, and
continuing to structure products and collect fees for their own
enrichment,” according to the trustee’s lawsuit.  Picard cited both e-mails and oral communications to allege
that JPM was careful not to invest in Madoff itself, and that
several employees were suspicious of him. The trustee alleged
that JPMorgan’s  Private Bank  “made a conscious and informed
decision to avoid doing business with Madoff.”  “The Private Bank chose not to invest with any BLMIS
feeder funds because it had never been able to reverse engineer
how they made money,” an unidentified JPMorgan employee wrote
in a message to customers after Madoff’s fraud case became
public. That e-mail was included in an amended version of
Picard’s complaint against JPMorgan.  Employee E-Mail  The trustee’s complaint also cited an e-mail by a bank
employee to colleagues on June 15, 2007.  “For whatever its worth, I am sitting at lunch with [JPMC
Employee 1] who just told me that there is a well-known cloud
over the head of Madoff and that his returns are speculated to
be part of a [P]onzi scheme,” the employee wrote. “He said if
we google the guy we can see the articles for ourselves--Pls do
that and let us know what you find.”  After Madoff confessed to U.S. investigators in December
2008, another unidentified JPMorgan employee messaged co-workers.  “We’ve got a lot wrong this year but we got this one right
at least---I said it looked too good to be true on that call
with you” the employee wrote, referring to a September 2008
conversation.  ‘Swimming Naked’  “Despite suspecting it was dodgy I am still shocked to see
this happen so suddenly,” the employee wrote. “I guess it’s
true that when the tide goes out you see who is swimming
naked.”  In responding to Picard’s suit, the bank issued a statement
in 2011 saying it “did not know about or in any way become a
party to the fraud” and called it an “unfounded claim” that
JPMorgan earned substantial fees from Madoff’s account.  JPMorgan also objected in court when the trustee sought
more freedom to use confidential Madoff documents provided by
the bank.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is
investigating whether JPMorgan failed to report to regulators
suspicious activity on Madoff’s account, according to a person
familiar with the probe.  Discussions with prosecutors and the OCC have picked up
pace in the last few weeks and the bank has indicated that it is
willing to pay a fine to resolve the issue as soon as possible,
said the person said, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private.  The OCC also told prosecutors that a criminal case against
JPMorgan could trigger a review of its banking charter, the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing unidentified people familiar
with the matter.  Bryan Hubbard , a spokesman for the OCC, declined to comment
on its probe or discussions with the Justice Department.  ‘703 Account’  Investors have also sued JPMorgan, claiming the bank should
have been aware that Madoff’s firm was passing all the money he
stole from customers through a JPMorgan account known as the
“703 Account.”  They had sought to represent all investors who had money
invested with Madoff in December 2008, when he was arrested and
the fraud collapsed. Many of those suits were later dismissed.  The bankruptcy trustee’s case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase &
Co., 11-cv-913, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  