-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for October (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-10-24T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-october-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Growth in Tenth District manufacturing activity improved
moderately in October, while producers’ expectations for future
activity eased somewhat but remained at solid levels. Several
producers noted negative business impacts from the government
shutdown, particularly related to delays in government
inspections and approval processes, lack of data availability,
and overall customer uncertainty. Price indexes were mixed, with
a general increase in materials prices and little overall change
in selling prices.  The month-over-month composite index was 6 in October, up from 2
in September but down from 8 in August. The composite index is
an average of the production, new orders, employment, supplier
delivery time, and raw materials inventory indexes. The
production index increased further at durable goods plants,
while production of nondurable goods products fell, particularly
for chemicals and plastics. Other month-over-month indexes
posted mixed results. The production index jumped from 4 to 14,
and the shipments and new orders for exports indexes also
increased. In contrast, the order backlog index was unchanged,
and the new orders and employment indexes eased for the second
straight month. The raw materials inventory index rose from 0 to
12, and the finished goods inventory index also moved higher.  The majority of year-over-year factory indexes fell in October.
The composite year-over-year index edged down from 10 to 7, and
the production, shipments, new orders, and order backlog indexes
also decreased. The employment index fell after recording its
highest level of the year in September, and the capital
expenditures index eased from 16 to 7. Both inventory indexes
decreased but remained positive.  Most future factory indexes eased somewhat after rising markedly
last month. The future composite index fell from 18 to 8, and
the future production, shipments, and new orders indexes also
decreased. The future employment index moved from 14 to 3, its
lowest level since January, while the future capital
expenditures index was unchanged. The future raw materials
inventory index was basically unchanged, while the future
finished goods inventory index declined into negative territory.  Price indexes were mixed, although raw materials prices
increased across all time periods. The month-over-month finished
goods price index edged up from 4 to 10, and the raw materials
price index also rose. The year-over-year raw materials price
index increased from 38 to 48, while the finished goods price
index moderated slightly. The future raw materials price index
moved higher from 36 to 45, while the future finished goods
price index eased somewhat, indicating fewer firms plan to pass
recent cost increases through to customers.  SELECTED COMMENTS  “General labor is still very hard to find. Help wanted signs are
up everywhere around us. Starting wage ranges anywhere from
$9.50 to $12.50 an hour and still no applicants.”  “Orders for compressor packages to transport natural gas
continues at a record pace. A significant number of packages are
destined for the shale formations in Pennsylvania and  Ohio .”  “As an agricultural equipment manufacturer, we reduced our
production schedule this week and are looking for ways to reduce
hours, inventory, and capital expenditures.”  “We are not able to get labeling information as all the websites
are down. Any labels in process are on hold.”  “The USDA Market Information that is the basis for supplier
prices to us was not available. A small portion of our sales go
to military base grocery stores, which have halted.”  “We are receiving more notices of impending price increases.
Previously most increases have been pass-through of commodities
and transportation costs. Recently, prices are increasing due to
increased labor costs and taking advantage of increased demand.
”  “We have experienced military shipment approval delays, stoppage
of aircraft registration, and the inability to communicate with
the government for critical timing of shipments.”  “We are struggling to find help and we are losing employees to
the oil and gas businesses due to their ability to pay
significantly higher wages.”  “The government shutdown has affected our business both in terms
of direct production on government contracts as well as
ancillary services/support provided by the government needed for
international business. These services include issuance of visas
for foreign customers and processing of legalization documents
required on letter of credit draws.”  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 