-- Kering Sales Trail Estimates as Gucci Demand Wanes in China
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-10-24T16:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/kering-third-quarter-sales-trail-estimates-as-gucci-disappoints.html
Kering SA (KER)  reported third-quarter
revenue that trailed estimates as demand for Gucci handbags
waned in  China , leading the luxury goods brand to post its
weakest growth in four years.  Sales from continuing operations fell 1.5 percent to 2.52
billion euros ($3.48 billion), Paris-based Kering said today in
a statement after markets closed. Analysts predicted 2.55
billion euros, according to the median of 14  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Excluding acquisitions and currency fluctuations,
revenue rose 3.4 percent, the company said.  Kering follows  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  in
reporting slowing growth as Gucci and LVMH’s Louis Vuitton brand
tighten distribution and raise prices in an effort to appeal to
the wealthiest shoppers. Gucci’s comparable sales advanced 0.6
percent in the third quarter, compared with analyst estimates of
2.1 percent growth. That was the weakest performance since the
third quarter of 2009 when sales fell 7 percent.  Kering’s performance confirms luxury growth is moderating
in the second half of the year,  Luca Solca , an analyst at BNP
Paribas in  London , said by e-mail. Gucci missed “because of the
need to streamline wholesale,” he said.  Kering  fell  1.1 percent to 172.65 euros in Paris trading
today, trimming the gain this year to 25 percent.  The adoption of a more exclusive strategy “adversely
affected third-quarter store traffic” for Gucci in the Asia
Pacific region, Kering said. The brand’s sales in China fell in
the period, Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Duplaix said on a
call with reporters, declining to specify the drop.  Bottega Veneta  Louis Vuitton sales grew less than 3 percent between July
and September on an organic basis, LVMH said last week.  Sales at the rest of Kering’s luxury division, which
includes Bottega Veneta, Saint Laurent and Balenciaga, also
trailed estimates on a comparable basis.  The Puma sporting-goods brand performed better than
expected as comparable sales declined only 0.8 percent in the
quarter, compared with the 2.3 percent slide predicted by
analysts. Puma sales developed positively in North America,
though remained under pressure in western Europe, Kering said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  