-- MTN Cuts Subscriber Target as Iran Customer Numbers Fall
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-10-24T10:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/mtn-says-subscriber-growth-slowed-amid-competition.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,  Africa ’s largest
wireless operator, cut its full-year target for new subscribers
as regulations limited growth and customer numbers fell in  Iran .  The company reduced its goal for net additional subscribers
in 2013 by 9 percent to 19.1 million, Nik Kershaw, head of
 investor relations , said by phone today. MTN Irancell’s customer
base contracted 1.7 percent to 41.3 million because of a
weakening economy in the Middle East country and the withdrawal
of a sim card promotion, he said.  MTN increased its subscriber numbers by 2.2 million to
203.8 million in the three months through September, lower than
the company had forecast, it said in a statement today. The
growth slowed from an increase of 6.3 million users on average
over the previous three quarters. MTN’s largest market,  Nigeria ,
added 358,000 customers after expanding the user base by more
than 9 million in the previous three quarters, the Johannesburg-based company said.  “The third quarter has been characterized by lower than
anticipated subscriber growth following ongoing price
competition and subscriber registration requirements across a
number of markets,” MTN Chief Executive Officer Sifiso Dabengwa
said in the statement. “Data and mobile money remain a key
focus for the group with traditional voice revenue under
pressure.”  Iran Sanctions  MTN  shares  fell as much as 2.3 percent and traded 1.4
percent lower at 198.29 rand as of 12:30 p.m. in Johannesburg.
The company, which operates in more than 20 countries including
Syria and Afghanistan, is reviewing its cost base in  South
Africa  and may eliminate jobs, the company said in August.  MTN has made progress on repatriating about $450 million
from its Iranian unit that’s been subject to U.S. sanctions,
Kershaw said in the phone interview.  “We continue to engage with the relevant authorities
around that,” he said. “It’s something very difficult to
forecast. We are making some progress but it’s a long process.”  The company’s Nigerian unit has been affected by a
mandatory SIM registration deadline, disconnections in Borno
state where services were shut down and lower connections based
on the earlier-generation GSM technology, MTN said in the
statement.  “These factors will continue to impact net additions for
the balance of the year,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  