-- Najib Plans Unpopular Steps as Markets Jump Pre-Budget
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-10-25T03:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/najib-plans-unpopular-steps-as-malaysia-markets-jump-pre-budget.html
(Corrects date for ringgit’s high in fourth paragraph.)  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
said he’s prepared to take unpopular steps to put the economy on
a path to sustainable growth as stocks rallied ahead of his 2014
budget speech today.  Stocks closed at a record yesterday in Kuala Lumpur and 10-year bond yields dropped the most since June on optimism Najib
will rein in spending, further cut state subsidies and introduce
a goods and services tax.  Fitch Ratings  reduced the outlook on
the Southeast Asian nation’s investment-grade rating to negative
in July, citing rising debt and a lack of budgetary reform,
prompting the prime minister to raise fuel prices.  “The government will do what is right for our economy,”
Najib said in an e-mailed statement yesterday, without providing
details. “Some measures may not be popular now, but over the
medium term what is good for the economy is also good for the
people.”  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia  KLCI index  of shares rose 0.3
percent to 1,818.93 in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. The yield on the
3.48 percent bonds due in 2023 declined 11 basis points to 3.62
percent, the lowest since July 8, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ringgit appreciated 0.2 percent to 3.1608 per
dollar. It reached 3.1413 on Oct. 18, the strongest since June.  “Investors have been buying Malaysian stocks because
economic growth has been fairly stable and the market is
expecting the budget to contain measures to further spur
growth,” said Ang Kok Heng, who helps manage $428 million as
chief investment officer at Phillip Capital Management Sdn. in
 Kuala Lumpur . “The Malaysian market has been advancing in line
with global equities.”  Fuel Prices  Najib, who is also finance minister, increased fuel prices
for the first time since 2010 in September and has said he’d
delay some public projects. The country has run annual budget
shortfalls each year starting 1998. The nation’s proportion of
debt to gross domestic product of 53 percent is the highest
among  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economies, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Malaysia will probably implement an initial 4 percent goods
and services tax that will generate 20.5 billion ringgit ($6.5
billion), or as much as 14 percent of total  tax revenue , in the
first year, according to an Oct. 16 report from DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. The government earlier planned to introduce the
tax by 2011.  “The market is expecting Najib to announce further
measures to cut the fiscal deficit,” Wong Chee Seng, a currency
strategist at Ambank Group in Kuala Lumpur, said yesterday.
“This is the main driver for the ringgit’s strength.”  Goods Tax  Fiscal consolidation will be good for  Malaysia ’s economic
growth, Wee Choon Teo, a foreign-exchange analyst at Nomura
Singapore Ltd., said in an interview yesterday. Any action to
rationalize subsidies and implement a goods and services tax
will be taken positively by the market, he said.  The government must fulfill its pledges to the people while
avoiding populist measures that undermine economic stability,
said Najib, whose coalition was re-elected in May.  “We cannot control what happens abroad, but we can work to
strengthen the domestic resilience of our economy,” said the
prime minister yesterday, pointing to the recent global
financial crisis.  The KLCI index rose yesterday for a seventh day, the
longest winning streak since December. The gauge was trading at
15.9 times projected 12-month  earnings , a two-month high,
compared with 10.6 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.
Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. and Petronas Dagangan Bhd.
climbed more than 1 percent yesterday in Kuala Lumpur, the two
largest gainers in the benchmark.  Debt Swaps  Malaysia’s GDP is forecast to increase 4.5 percent to 5
percent this year, after climbing 5.6 percent in 2012, according
to an Aug. 21 statement from the central bank. Policy makers
have kept borrowing  costs  at 3 percent since May 2011 to spur
growth in Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy.  One-month implied volatility in the ringgit, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 8.25 percent and
is down from 10.96 percent at the end of last month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The ringgit is likely to strengthen in a knee-jerk
reaction to tomorrow’s budget announcement,” Ho Woei Chen,
Singapore-based economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd., said in
an interview. “Any rise probably will not be sustainable given
that focus may return to quantitative easing tapering
concerns.”  The lender forecasts the ringgit will weaken to 3.28 per
dollar by year-end. That compares with the median estimate for
3.24 in a Bloomberg survey of 36 analysts.  Deficit Target  Malaysia is rated A- by Fitch, the fourth-lowest investment
grade. The cost to insure Malaysia’s sovereign debt for five
years using credit-default swaps dropped to 111.5 this month
from 131.5 on Sept. 30, CMA prices show. That’s down from the
year’s high of 157 in August.  Moody’s Investors Service said last month the  budget
deficit  may exceed 4 percent of GDP this year, warning the
government’s fiscal targets will become “increasingly out of
reach” without additional measures to contain it. The shortfall
was 4.5 percent in 2012, while Najib is seeking to cut it to 3
percent by 2015 and to balance the budget by 2020.  A government report today may show consumer prices  rose  2.5
percent in September from a year earlier, compared with 1.9
percent in August, according to the median forecast of 17
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . That would be the fastest
since January 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  