-- Natura Sinks as Increased Spending Saps Profit: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-10-24T15:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/natura-sinks-as-increased-spending-saps-profit-sao-paulo-mover.html
Natura Cosmeticos SA (NATU3)  fell to an
eight-week low after  earnings trailed estimates by the most
since 2006 and the Brazilian cosmetics maker increased its
planned outlays on marketing, advertising and other expenses.  The shares dropped 2.9 percent to 45.83 reais at 1:20 p.m.
in  Sao Paulo . A close at that level would be the lowest since
Aug. 30. The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  equity benchmark fell 1.1 percent.  Natura, whose door-to-door direct sales business model
mirrors that of  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , posted adjusted net income
of 183.7 million reais ($83.7 million) in the third quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg after the company
released results yesterday. That compares with an average
estimate of 228.7 million reais among analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, making it the biggest miss for the Itapecerica da
Serra, Brazil-based company since the last quarter of 2006.  The cosmetic maker’s profitability was hurt by “massive
investments” in advertising and free samples as well as higher
logistics expenses in the third quarter, Grupo BTG Pactual
analyst Fabio Monteiro wrote in a note to clients today. Natura
raised its capital expenditures guidance for this year by 100
million reais.  Third-quarter sales, marketing and logistics expenses
increased 17 percent from the previous year to 627 million
reais, Natura said in a regulatory filing. Administrative,
development, information technology and projects expenses
climbed 22 percent. Revenue increased 12 percent.  Cash flow will probably “stay pressured” as the company
boosts spending to fend off increasing competition in Brazil’s
cosmetics industry, Monteiro wrote. Natura’s competitors in
Brazil include Avon and Jequiti Cosmeticos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  