-- N.Y. Campaign Donation Cap Barred, Win for Lhota Backers
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-10-24T23:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/new-york-election-law-blocked-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
An independent political action
committee backing Republican Joe Lhota for  New York  City mayor
isn’t subject to a state law that bars individuals from giving
it more than $150,000 in a year, a federal appeals court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York today reversed a
lower-court judge’s decision and gave a potential boost to
Lhota, who is trailing Democrat Bill de Blasio in the polls less
than two weeks before the Nov. 5 election.  The appeals panel applied the U.S. Supreme Court’s 2010
Citizens United decision, preliminarily blocking enforcement of
the cap against New York Progress and Protection PAC. Alabama
businessman Shaun McCutcheon had told the court he wanted to
contribute $200,000 to the group in support of Lhota.  “Every sum that a donor is forbidden to contribute to
NYPPP because of this statute reduces constitutionally protected
speech,” the three-judge panel said.  Today’s ruling and  Citizens United , which removed
restrictions on spending by independent groups, would allow
unlimited amounts of money to be collected and spent on
political campaigns in New York, where mayoral candidates who
participate in the public campaign finance system are limited to
spending $6.4 million.  The judges ordered the lower court to issue a preliminary
injunction barring the state from enforcing the cap against
NYPPP, saying the group has “a substantial likelihood of
success” in its challenge to the law. The ruling applies only
to NYPPP.  ‘Independent Expenditure’  “It’s an independent expenditure,” said Jessica Proud,
Lhota’s spokeswoman. “We have nothing to do with it, so we’re
not commenting.”  “Today’s decision will empower the right-wing
billionaires, like the Koch Brothers, and Tea Party groups who
support Joe Lhota, to drown out the voices of  New Yorkers ,”
said a de Blasio spokeswoman, Lis Smith. “The stakes are too
high to let the same Republican extremists who shut down the
government hijack the mayoral election.”  Tomorrow is the deadline for reporting donations and
spending up to and through Oct. 21 under New York campaign-finance rules. The last report was issued Sept. 30 for
contributions and expenses as of Sept. 26.  ‘Too Late’  “If it were three months ago, Lhota might have been able
to use the money to make the race more competitive,” said
 William Cunningham , managing director of Dan Klores
Communications Inc., a public relations firm. “It’s a little
too late for it to have any impact on the outcome now.”  Cunningham served as senior political adviser to former New
York Governors  Mario Cuomo  and Hugh Carey and former U.S.
Senator Daniel Moynihan. He also advised current New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg , the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  De Blasio, 52, had about $1.3 million on hand as of the
last report, after spending about $446,000 of the $6.4 million
allowed for the general election.  Lhota, 59, had $985,000 in cash on hand after spending
about $318,500 between the Sept. 10 Republican primary and the
last report. The Campaign Finance Board gave Lhota another
$39,000 in public funds today.  “Whether the ruling will have an impact on raising money
depends on the willingness of the donors, who may feel it’s
daunting when polls consistently show de Blasio 40 points
ahead,” Cunningham said.  Decision Reversed  The appeals court reversed an Oct. 17 decision by U.S.
District Judge Paul Crotty in  Manhattan . Crotty had said a
ruling temporarily blocking enforcement of the law against NYPPP
would leave the state free to prosecute contributors giving more
than $150,000 to other groups. It would also threaten to disrupt
the status quo within days of the election, Crotty said.  “The magnitude of the harm to the public from an
unpredictable and unjust election process far exceeds the
potential hardships to NYPPP,” Crotty said in his ruling.
Today, he issued the injunction called for in the appeals
court’s ruling.  Under the city’s public campaign-finance system, mayoral
candidates get a 6-to-1 match for each resident’s donation
amounting to $175 or less. So far, de Blasio has received about
$246,000 in public matching funds for the general election and
Lhota $553,000, including disbursements made today, according to
Matt Sollars, a spokesman for the Campaign Finance Board. More
matching funds will be given out Nov. 1.  ‘Tidal Wave’  “Today’s reversal by the court of appeals could unleash a
last-minute tidal wave of special interest money into the
election,” Sollars said in an e-mailed statement. “However,
thanks to new rules put in place for this election, these
contributions will be visible to the public. Independent
expenditures by outside groups and contributions to those groups
must be disclosed to the CFB within 24 hours during the last two
weeks before Election Day.”  After today, candidates will be required to issue daily
reports of any contributions of $1,000 or more they receive, and
any spending of $10,000 on one day or over several days for a
single vendor, according to Sollars.  “There’s a finite amount of advertising time still
available on TV, and you would need a comprehensive targeted
direct-mail campaign sitting on the shelf,” Cunningham said.
“Joe’s problem is that this ruling coming at this time probably
offers him resources but won’t change the overall dynamic of the
race.”  Court ‘Victory’  Terry Pell, president of the Center for Individual Rights,
which is co-counsel for the NYPPP in the suit, called the
appeals court’s decision a “victory” for New Yorkers.  “Today’s ruling will allow New York’s mayoral election to
proceed without the burden of unconstitutional campaign
limits,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  A final debate between de Blasio and Lhota is scheduled for
Oct. 29.  The case is New York Progress and Protection PAC v. Walsh,
13-3889,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at 
Or  rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  