-- Nigeria Bourse Wants More of $22 Billion Pension Market
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u   a n d   Y i n k a   I b u k u n
-- 2013-10-25T15:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/nigeria-bourse-wants-more-of-22-billion-pension-cash.html
The  Nigerian Stock Exchange (NGSEINDX)  is
seeking to have rules on pension-fund investing relaxed to
attract funds and boost Africa’s third-best performing gauge
this year, Chief Executive Officer Oscar Onyema said.  Nigeria has more than 3.5 trillion naira ($22 billion) in
invested retirement savings, according to the National Pension
Commission, known as Pencom. Investors should be able to put
that money into companies with at least three years of financial
statements, less than the five required now, he said in an
interview in the commercial capital, Lagos, on Oct. 23.  “Most of Pencom’s regulations are designed to protect
investors, but investors are becoming more sophisticated,”
Onyema said. “We are working very closely with them, the
National Assembly, and other appropriate bodies to highlight
areas where we believe there is a need for enhancement.”  Onyema wants reforms to boost stocks, which have led the
market’s all-share index 32 percent higher this year, and
bolster an economy set to expand 6.2 percent this year and 7.4
percent in 2014, according to the  International Monetary Fund .
Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and most populous
country, with about 160 million residents.  South Africa ’s pension assets were worth about 3 trillion
rand ($307 billion) by the second quarter, according to
Bloomberg calculations made using Reserve Bank data, while the
 Johannesburg Stock Exchange ’s all-share index gained 15 percent
this year.  Ghana , which ended the state pension fund’s monopoly
on retirement savings, had assets of 1.06 billion cedis ($484
million) last year, according to the country’s pensions
regulator. Ghana’s Composite Index is Africa’s  best performer 
this year, jumping 75 percent.  Bonus Shares  The exchange is targeting a market capitalization of $1
trillion by 2016 from its current $74 billion,  Africa ’s biggest
after Johannesburg. The Nigerian gauge is still down 43 percent
from a March 2008 record, tumbling after a debt crisis caused by
investors borrowing to buy stocks before prices crashed.  “Unless the market depth or more quality stocks listed
improves, more pension funds going into the equity market will
just drive up valuations across the board, especially in blue-chip names which tend to represent core holdings of long-term
focused fund managers,” Olubunmi Asaolu, an analyst at Lagos-based FBN Capital Ltd., said today in an e-mailed response to
questions. The 193-member All Share Index fell 0.5 percent to
37,434.90 by the close in Lagos.  Bonus Shares  Pension funds are only able to invest in listed companies
which have paid dividends or issued bonus shares for at least
one year out of the five they have financial statements for,
according to Pencom’s website.  “We don’t even look at dividends in our listing
standards,” Onyema said. “What we look at is profitability and
market capitalization.”  The commission increased the equities investment limit for
pension funds to 50 percent from 25 percent in November 2012 to
help boost trading. Pencom wanted to increase “investment in
equities and other outlets but with due attention to returns and
safety,” Ehimeme Ohioma, head of investment supervision, said
on Nov. 15. Two calls to Emeka Onuoara, spokesman for Abuja-based Pencom, didn’t connect yesterday.  The stock exchange is bidding to attract investment from
the growing energy industry following moves by the government to
sell stakes in power production and transmission companies.  Power Cuts  “We think that, with time, they will at one point or
another come to the market to help to finance their massive
capital needs,” Onyema said. Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  handed control of 14  power plants  to buyers on Sept. 30
to end frequent power cuts and help boost the economy.  Many of the plants need spending on infrastructure.
 Transnational Corp. of Nigeria Plc , which invests in hotels,
agriculture and energy, raised money for its purchase of the
Ughelli power plant through a rights offer this year, part of a
plan to source 15 billion naira. Transcorp’s shares  rallied  89
percent this year.  Nigeria has a lone exchange-traded fund,  NewGold Issuer
Ltd. (GLD) , and a target to list five more by the end of the year may
not be attained because of the time it takes to register, Onyema
said.  “We are pushing hard and trying to support them as much as
possible to see if we can actually get at least one or two
through the system before the end of the year,” he said.  The bourse is working to develop a ranking system on
governance to improve transparency, Onyema said. The initiative,
which started with 10 companies, will lead to the creation of a
corporate governance index.  Nigeria  ranks 139th out of 174 in
Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index, where
lower scores signal increased graft.  “Next year, if everything goes well, we’ll extend it to
the entire list of companies,” Onyema said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net ;
Yinka Ibukun in Lagos at 
 yibukun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  