-- Norway Leaves Key Rate Unchanged as Housing Market Deflates
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-10-24T09:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/norges-bank-leaves-rates-unchanged-as-housing-market-deflates.html
Norges Bank left its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged for a 10th meeting as a deflating
housing market in Scandinavia’s richest economy removes pressure
from the bank to tighten policy.  The deposit rate was kept at  1.5 percent , the Oslo-based
central bank said today. The decision was predicted by all but
one of the 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Inflation in September was lower than expected, but at
the same time the krone has depreciated since the previous
monetary policy meeting,” Governor Oeystein Olsen said. “In
other respects, economic developments both in  Norway  and abroad
have been broadly in line with expectations. The key policy rate
has therefore been kept unchanged.”  The bank signaled last month it will move toward higher
rates as  house prices  and consumer debt hover at record levels.
Norway, like  Switzerland , has struggled to keep its economy
balanced as unprecedented monetary easing across the globe
distorts asset prices in some of the world’s richest nations.  Underlying inflation, which adjusts for the effect of taxes
and energy, reached the bank’s 2.5 percent target in August for
the first time in four years, though price growth slowed to 1.7
percent last month.  Growth in Norway’s $500 billion economy is showing signs of
stalling as record household debt burdens curb private demand
and after persistent krone appreciation last year hurt exports.  Downward Revision  Mainland gross domestic product, which excludes oil and gas
production, will expand 1.75 percent this year, the bank
forecast in September. In 2012, GDP by that measure grew by 3.4
percent.  “We believe data for unemployment, production, private
demand and consumer prices will support our expectation for a
downward revision to the interest rate path in December,” Kari Due-Andresen, an economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB, said in
an e-mailed note after the decision.  After appreciating against the euro in 2011 and 2012, the
krone lost 11 percent this year following warnings from the
central bank that it’s ready to act to stem gains.  “It helps that the kroner is now significantly lower than
in September,” Olsen said in an interview in Oslo today.  Norges Bank is trying to balance policy to avoid fueling
currency gains without overheating an economy buoyed by a
booming  petroleum industry  and house prices that have doubled
since 2002. Private debt has surged to 200 percent of disposable
income, according to the central bank.  Debt ratios are still high and rising faster than income,
the bank warned in its September monetary report.  It’s “too early to say” if Norges Bank will change its
forecast for a summer rate increase, Olsen said. The central
bank will wait until its next report in December before
presenting updated forecasts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  