-- North Korea to Allow South’s Lawmakers to Visit Gaeseong Complex
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-10-24T07:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/north-korea-to-allow-south-s-lawmakers-to-visit-gaeseong-complex.html
North Korea  will allow a group of
South Korean lawmakers to visit a jointly run industrial park
amid a deadlock in efforts to reconcile the two countries, a
legislator said.  Members of the parliamentary committee on foreign affairs
will travel to the Gaeseong site on Oct. 30 after North Korea
today approved the visit, Kim Sung Gon, a lawmaker from the
opposition  Democratic Party , said by phone, citing a
notification from the South Korean government.  The trip would be the first by a South Korean lawmaker
since 2011 and signals the North’s willingness to improve ties
with the South, Kim said. Relations are in “a lull” after the
North last month canceled reunions of families separated by the
Korean War, South Korean Unification Minister Ryoo Kihl Jae said
at a briefing yesterday.  “We hope the visit can provide momentum for the two
countries to jump-start their efforts to reconcile,” Kim said.
“We’d also like to see what difficulties South Korean companies
face after the park reopened.”  In another sign that the Kim Jong Un regime is trying to
ease tensions, North Korea agreed to return six South Korean
nationals held in the North. The repatriations will be carried
out tomorrow, the South’s Unification Ministry said in an e-mailed  statement without giving more information.  The Gaeseong Industrial Park, located just north of the
border, reopened on Sept. 16 about five months after North Korea
withdrew its 53,000 workers when tensions spiked between the
countries. More than 120 South Korean companies have factories
at the nine-year-old park.  Citizens of the two Koreas are banned from visiting the
other side without approval as the countries remain technically
at war after the 1950-53  Korean War  ended in a truce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  