-- North Korea Builds New Tunnels at Nuclear Test Site, Report Says
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-10-24T02:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/north-korea-builds-new-tunnels-at-nuclear-test-site-report-says.html
North Korea has built two new tunnel
entrances at its atomic test site in a sign the Kim Jong Un
regime is preparing future underground blasts to bolster its
nuclear arsenal, a report says.  The entrances were identified in the west and south of the
Punggye-ri site in the northeast where the North has conducted
three underground tests since 2006, the  U.S.-Korea Institute at
Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International
Studies  said today in an e-mail, citing satellite images.  “These ongoing activities as well as upgrades to the
site’s support areas indicate North Korea is preparing to
conduct additional detonations in the future as part of its
nuclear weapons development program,” the U.S. institute said.  Efforts to restart international disarmament talks with
North Korea remain stalled as Kim refuses U.S. and South Korean
demands that the country first show signs of rolling back its
weapons development. Instead, North Korea has been stepping up
its arms program, holding its third nuclear test in February
followed by a threat in March of first strikes against the U.S.
and South Korea. South Korea’s intelligence chief confirmed this
month the North had restarted its main nuclear reactor.  While the North said after the February test that it had
succeeded in making its nuclear bombs smaller and lighter, the
U.S. administration contends the North hasn’t mastered the
technology to deliver nuclear bombs on long-range missiles.  The Johns Hopkins institute said it sees no signs of an
immediate nuclear test. The findings coincide with a statement
from the North’s Foreign Ministry yesterday that the country
would “not be bound to anything” that prevents it from
bolstering its nuclear deterrent to deal with what it calls U.S.
hostility.  The entrances at Punggye-ri indicate the North is planning
to drill additional tunnels for future nuclear tests or trying
to facilitate traffic or ventilation of existing ones, the
institute said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  