-- North Korea to Repatriate 6 South Koreans in Bid to Ease Tension
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-10-24T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/north-korea-to-repatriate-6-south-koreans-in-bid-to-ease-tension.html
North Korea  will repatriate six
South Koreans across their heavily armed border today in a
gesture that could help improve ties between the countries.  The North’s  Red Cross  notified the South yesterday of the
plan to repatriate the detainees and said that those being sent
back are all men ranging from age 27 to 67,  South Korea ’s
 Unification Ministry  said in e-mailed statements. Only their
surnames were disclosed with no other information given.  The repatriation adds a twist to relations that began to
improve after North and South Korea agreed in August to reopen a
jointly run industrial park. The reconciliation efforts hit a
snag last month when the North canceled planned reunions of
families separated by the  Korean War  that ended 60 years ago in
a truce.  “This appears to be a humanitarian gesture with a message
that South Korea should also make goodwill gestures in other
issues” such as suspended cross-border tours, Kim Soo Am, a
North Korea researcher at the government-affiliated Korea
Institute for National Unification in Seoul, said by phone.
“North Korea understands it can’t always rely on tension.”  The Unification Ministry called it “fortunate” that the
North was taking the humanitarian step of repatriating detained
South Koreans.  North Korea said in 2010 that it was questioning four South
Koreans who illegally entered the country. South Korea has since
called on the North to identify them and return them. It is
unclear if the four are among the six to be returned home.  Kenneth Bae  North Korea has also detained U.S. citizen Kenneth Bae
since November last year. Bae, a tour operator and Christian
missionary, remains imprisoned after being accused of “hostile
acts” against the Kim Jong Un regime. Kim Soo Am said this
could bode well for Bae’s release.  “North Korea has been trying to promote itself as
humanitarian recently,” Kim said, citing North Korea’s decision
earlier this month to allow Bae’s mother to visit.  North Korea yesterday also approved a visit by a group of
South Korean lawmakers to the Gaeseong industrial park on Oct.
30, opposition legislator Kim Sung Gon said by phone.  Citizens of the Koreas are not allowed to travel to the
other side without approval, as the countries technically remain
in a state of war after the 1950-53 conflict ended without a
peace agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  