-- NQ Rejects Muddy Waters ‘Fraud’ Call as Shares Plunge 47%
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-10-25T09:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/nq-mobile-sinks-as-muddy-waters-calls-company-fraud-.html
NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  sank the most on
record after Muddy Waters LLC called the Chinese mobile-security
service provider a “massive fraud.” The company denied the
allegations.  NQ Mobile dropped 47 percent to $12.09 in New York
yesterday, the most since the its initial public offering in May
2011, before trading was suspended. Shares had risen 279 percent
this year through Oct. 23.  Muddy Waters, the research firm founded by short seller
 Carson Block , initiated coverage of NQ Mobile with a strong sell
rating, saying the company inflated sales. NQ Mobile, whose co-chief executive officer is Omar Khan, a former Samsung
Electronics Co. chief strategy officer, raised its 2013  revenue
estimate  to as much as $188 million on Aug. 12 from the upper
limit of its prior forecast of $184 million.  “We believe it is a zero,” Block wrote in an e-mailed
report yesterday on NQ Mobile. “At least 72 percent of NQ’s
purported 2012  China  security revenue is fictitious.”  NQ Mobile rejected the allegations, saying it will respond
with more details before the open of U.S. markets today,
according to a PRNewswire statement.  Block gained fame for his short-selling calls after
regulators halted trading in four of the first five companies he
targeted starting in June 2010.  ‘Seldom Pay’  Muddy Waters  alleged Tianjin Yidatong, NQ’s largest trade
debtor, is controlled by NQ Mobile and not an independent
company, according to the  report  on its Website.  “All of the allegations are false,” NQ’s Khan said in an
interview in Beijing. “Tianjin Yidatong is a service provider”
and an “unrelated party,” he said.  The company will hold a briefing at 8:30 a.m. New York time
to answer questions, Khan said.  NQ Mobile’s market share in China is about 1.5 percent,
versus the approximate 55 percent it reports, Block wrote. The
company’s paying user base in China is less than 250,000, versus
the six million NQ Mobile claims, he said.  The company, which has added online games and a music
search application to its services, released NQ Live, a mobile
Internet platform that can be customized, Jun Zhang, an analyst
at Wedge Partners Corp., wrote in a report this week.  “NQ claims to generate international revenue in obscure
markets, and through mysterious counterparties that seem to
seldom pay,” Block wrote.  Shorts Double  The majority of NQ Mobile’s China revenue is exaggerated or
non-existent, according to Muddy Waters. Yidatong, described by
NQ Mobile as an independent company that accounted for $20.2
million of NQ Mobile’s $27.9 million in carrier billing revenue
in China last year, doesn’t exist, the short seller said.  Muddy Waters said in June 2011 that Sino-Forest Corp., a
Chinese plantation company listed in  Canada , exaggerated its
revenue. Sino-Forest filed for  bankruptcy protection  the
following year.  Not all of Block’s short bets have paid off. Investors in
 American Tower Corp. (AMT) , the Boston-based operator of cell-phone
antennas, were unshaken by Block’s claims that the company is
worth less than its share price, and firms from  Wells Fargo &
Co . to Macquarie Group Ltd. said they disagreed. The stock has
gained 4 percent this year.  Short interest  in NQ Mobile has doubled since July to a
record 11 million shares at the end of September, according to
exchange data. NQ Mobile said in December that a report by short
seller FJE Research claiming the company inflated its user based
was incorrect.  Convertible Bonds  Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG helped NQ Mobile raise
$173 million in a private placement of  convertible bonds  on Oct.
9. The conversion price was about $25.61 per ADR.  “With the debt, that’s not a good position to be in,”
Daniel Yu, the director of research at Gotham City Research, an
investment-research firm, said by phone from New York.  NQ Mobile’s co-founder and co-CEO  Henry Lin  started the
company in 2005 with $15,000 he and a high-school classmate
cobbled together, Bloomberg Businessweek reported in its Aug. 12
issue. He scored investments from  Sequoia Capital ,  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) 
and Fidelity en route to an $89 million initial public offering
in 2011. To expand the company outside China, he recruited Khan,
who had just joined Citigroup Inc. to run the bank’s worldwide
mobile business.  NQ Mobile, which is based in Beijing and  Dallas , was the
third-best performer on the Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of
the most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S. this year through
Oct. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  