-- NSA Got Leader Numbers From U.S. Official, Guardian Says
-- B y   J o e   S o b c z y k   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-10-24T23:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/nsa-got-leader-numbers-from-u-s-official-guardian-says.html
As U.S. allies demand clarification
about National Security Agency surveillance programs, the
 Guardian newspaper  reported that a government official gave the
agency phone numbers of 35 world leaders for tracking.  A classified memo leaked by fugitive former contractor
Edward Snowden discloses that the NSA sought telephone numbers
from officials at the White House and the defense and state
departments so they could be added to surveillance systems, the
 Guardian  reported.  The memo dated October 2006 -- during the administration of
President  George W. Bush  -- didn’t name the world leaders or the
U.S. official who provided the numbers, according to the U.K.-
based newspaper.  The Guardian report was published amid rising tension
between the U.S. and its allies over revelations about NSA
collection of communication data. A series of disclosures this
week detailed allegations of U.S. surveillance of German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s private mobile phone, of former
Mexican President  Felipe Calderon ’s e-mail while in office, and
of the collection of data on ordinary French citizens.  Last
month, Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  canceled a state visit
to  Washington  after revelations that the NSA had monitored her
e-mail and telephone exchanges with top aides.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is trying to
contain the fallout from the revelations.  Diplomatic Channels  “We have diplomatic relations and channels that we use in
order to discuss these issues that have clearly caused some
tension in our relationships with other nations around the
world,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said today,
addressing questions about Merkel’s reaction.  Merkel said today eavesdropping on allies is unacceptable,
and her government summoned the U.S. ambassador to the Foreign
Ministry in Berlin to discuss the issue. Obama spoke with Merkel
by telephone yesterday.  “‘Spying among friends is not done,’’ Merkel told
reporters before a European Union summit in Brussels, her first
public reaction to yesterday’s report in Der Spiegel magazine
that her mobile phone had been bugged. ‘‘We need trust between
allies and partners, and this trust must be re-established.’’  U.S. officials are warning foreign intelligence agencies
that Snowden may have obtained documents detailing their
cooperation with the American government, the Washington Post
reported today on its website. Some of the agencies are in
countries that aren’t publicly allied with the U.S., the
newspaper reported, citing unidentified U.S. officials.  Not Unique  Carney said the Obama administration is reviewing
surveillance policies and repeated that the U.S. ‘‘is not and
will not monitor the chancellor’s communications.” He refused
to answer a question about whether the U.S. had spied on Merkel
in the past.  He also suggested that such surveillance wasn’t unique to
the U.S.  “We have made clear that the United States gathers foreign
intelligence of the type gathered by all nations,” he said.  The Guardian report said the classified document it
obtained showed that the NSA encouraged senior officials in
government to share contact information they had so that phone
numbers of foreign politicians could be entered into its system.  One unidentified official turned over 200 numbers,
including those of 35 world leaders, according to the newspaper.
While most were available through public sources, 43 were
previously unknown telephone numbers, the Guardian said. The
leaders were not named in the memo, according to the newspaper.  Trade Talks  The memo also said the eavesdropping provided little
intelligence, the Guardian said.  Carney said the U.S. doesn’t expect the controversy over
surveillance will imperil talks on a trans-Atlantic trade
agreement that Obama is seeking.  Neither Merkel nor any of the other 27 EU leaders entering
the EU summit echoed a call by European Parliament President
 Martin Schulz  to suspend EU-U.S. trade talks.  “There has to be a moment where we interrupt,” Schulz
said on his way into the summit a few minutes after Merkel.
“When I go into a negotiation and fear that the other side, a
friendly democracy, has conducted espionage to find out what
I’ll say in the negotiations, then we’re not at the same level
anymore.”  Fredrik Erixon, director of the European Centre for
International Political Economy in Brussels, said the fallout
“isn’t going to seriously affect the EU-U.S. trade talks
because most of the EU governments, especially  Germany ’s, are
keen for a trade deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Sobczyk in Washington at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  