-- Old Republic Gains on Revival of Mortgage Insurer
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-10-24T21:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/old-republic-gains-on-revival-of-mortgage-insurer.html
Old Republic International Corp. (ORI) ,
the insurer that stopped selling home-loan guarantees in 2011,
advanced the most in a year after announcing a plan to raise
fresh capital and revive the business  Old Republic  jumped  4.3 percent to $16.16 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York, the highest close since 2008. The Chicago-based
company has rallied 52 percent this year.  The company said it plans to raise fresh funds from capital
markets to restart its mortgage insurance unit early next year,
after mounting losses from the collapse of the housing market
pushed the firm from the business. Chief Executive Officer Aldo Zucaro announced a plan to spin off the unit last year that was
later withdrawn. Mortgage insurers have been raising funds this
year as investors bet on a housing rebound and results improve.  “The substantial year-over-year improvement in mortgage
guaranty operating results was due to significantly lower claim
provisions,” Old Republic said today in a statement announcing
third-quarter results. The company saw “further drops in newly
reported defaults and a rising rate at which previously reported
defaults have cured.” The insurer still collects premiums and
pays claims on policies sold before its withdrawal.  Old Republic’s mortgage insurer and consumer-credit
guaranty business posted operating profit of $24 million in the
quarter, compared with a loss of $86.6 million a year earlier,
the company said today. Net income for the parent company was
$102.9 million, compared with a loss of $14.8 million a year
earlier.  Mortgage insurance  is typically paid for by borrowers, and
required for debt exceeding 80 percent of a property’s value.
The policies cover losses when homeowners default and
foreclosures fail to recoup costs. Old Republic also sells
products like title insurance and commercial-liability coverage.  Essent, NMI  Essent Group Ltd. (ESNT)  and  NMI Holdings Inc. (NMIH) , mortgage insurers
started after the housing crash, filed for initial public
offerings this year.  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  and  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) 
sold stock and debt to investors this year to replenish capital
drained in the crisis.  Old Republic said it will contribute as much as $50 million
of the new capital to its mortgage-guaranty subsidiary for a
minority equity interest. The plan requires approvals from the
North Carolina Department of Insurance,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac , Old Republic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  