-- Hong Kong Tycoon Richard Li Seeking Southeast Asian Insurers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-10-24T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/hong-kong-tycoon-richard-li-seeking-southeast-asian-insurers.html
Hong Kong  tycoon  Richard Li ’s
Pacific Century Group is stepping up its search for assets in
Southeast Asia after spending more than $2 billion to acquire
insurance units at home and in Macau and Thailand.  The company has been considering options to extend its
presence over the last six to 12 months,  Ronald Arculli , who was
named chairman of the insurance unit FWD Group, yesterday said
in an interview. The group will pursue acquisitions or strategic
partners and new licenses, he said.  “Southeast Asia is the more obvious of the
opportunities,” Chief Operating Officer Julian Lipman said in
the same interview. The growth of the “under-served” insurance
markets in Indonesia,  Vietnam  and the Philippines are all
attractive, he said.  The move puts Richard Li, son of Asia’s richest man  Li Ka-Shing , in competition with Japanese insurers that have targeted
the region’s growth potential to counter an aging society and
shrinking population at home. Acquirers from Japan have outbid
rivals, spending more than $1.4 billion in Southeast Asia so far
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In October last year, Richard Li agreed to buy  ING Groep
NV (INGA) ’s insurance and pension units for 1.64 billion euros ($2.3
billion) in Hong Kong, Macau and Thailand. It was his second
foray into insurance after he sold his holding in Hong Kong
insurer Pacific Century Insurance Holdings Ltd. to Fortis, the
Belgian-Dutch financial services company, in 2007.  Japanese Expand  Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co., Japan’s third-biggest life
insurer, in July agreed to buy a 15 percent stake in Thai Life
Insurance Pcl for about 70 billion yen ($719 million), a person
familiar with the matter said at the time. The deal valued Thai
Life at a multiple of 5.9 times its net assets at the end of
March, more than double the average of 17 publicly traded Thai
insurers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. (8766)  said in July it wanted to expand
within the region, while Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. is among
companies preparing to bid for a stake in the life insurance
unit of  PT Bank Negara Indonesia (BBNI) , people with knowledge of the
matter said in June.  Richard Li will not overpay if the company finds itself
outbid, Arculli, who was the former chairman of Hong Kong Stock
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., said.  “Richard has been around the block more than once or
twice, he’s not likely to go overboard and pay over the odds,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  