-- Hong Kong to Raise Subsidies to Replace Polluting Vehicles
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-10-24T07:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/hong-kong-to-raise-subsidies-to-replace-polluting-vehicles-1-.html
Hong Kong will offer HK$12 billion
($1.5 billion) in subsidies to replace old diesel vehicles, a 20
percent increase from an initial proposal, to clean up its
smoggy streets.  The increase from HK$10 billion for vehicle owners was made
after consultation with the industry,  Christine Loh , the city’s
undersecretary for environment, said today. The money will be
used to “clean up the dirtiest vehicles,” she said.  Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying has made cleaning up Hong
Kong’s streets a priority since taking over more than a year
ago, as the city’s air fails to match up to that of  New York  and
 London .  Air quality  has worsened since 2007, with aging buses
and trucks a key cause of pollution.  “We will start the scheme very soon,” Loh said. “We have
an agreement with the industry and we’re going to our
legislature for the money.”  The city’s Environmental Protection Department recorded
“very high” air pollution levels at its three roadside
monitoring stations today, and the readings are expected to
remain above normal levels in the next couple of days, the Hong
Kong government said in a statement.  As 2 p.m. local time, the index was was 191 in the Central
business district, 160 in the Causeway Bay shopping district and
112 in  Mong Kok  in Kowloon. A reading of more than 100 triggers
a government warning for people with heart or respiratory
illnesses to avoid prolonged stays in heavy-traffic areas.  Premature Deaths  Smog was responsible for more than 1,600 premature deaths
in the first half of the year, according to a study by the Clean
Air Network.  Leung announced the subsidy plan in his first policy speech
in January as a measure to cut particulates emissions by 80
percent and nitrogen oxides by 30 percent. Some 86,000  pre-Euro
and Euro I to III diesel commercial vehicles could be replaced,
and the government is also working with companies to install
converters on more than 20,000 older buses and cabs to improve
emissions, according to a statement today from the environment
bureau.  There are five EU standards on vehicle emissions, with I
the least stringent and V the most.  Hong Kong  is also seeking to enact legislation that will
mandate ships berthing at its ports to switch to cleaner fuel
over the next two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  