-- Hong Kong Needs Debate on Share-Class Rules, Exchange’s Li Says
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-10-24T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/hong-kong-needs-debate-on-share-class-rules-exchange-s-li-says.html
Hong Kong  needs a debate on how to
handle “innovative companies,” including whether to allow them
to have multiple share classes, said Charles Li, head of the
city’s stock exchange, after initial-offering talks with Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd. broke down last month.  Jack Ma, the billionaire founder of  China ’s largest e-commerce company, and his partners wanted to retain control
after a Hong Kong listing through a partnership that would
nominate a majority of board members. Hong Kong rules don’t
permit such a structure. Alibaba Executive Vice Chairman Joseph Tsai said last month that the exchange operator should “adapt
to future trends and changes.”  “Losing one or two listing candidates is not a big deal
for Hong Kong, but losing a generation of companies from China’s
new economy is,” Li, chief executive officer of  Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) , wrote in a blog post on the
exchange’s website yesterday, saying the comments reflect his
personal views, not those of the HKEx board. “Losing it without
a proper debate is even more unacceptable.”  Innovative companies are distinct because their success
comes largely from their founders’ vision, Li said. Founders
also have legitimate concerns they may be removed from their
boards as their holdings are diluted by rounds of financing, Li
added. Most international markets are willing to allow shares
with differentiated  voting rights , he said.  The key is to find a balance between concessions to
founders and protection for public shareholders, Li wrote.
There’s a range of options between keeping the status quo and
allowing dual-class shares, he wrote.  If changes are warranted, the city may consider
requirements for mandatory public floats and for the founder or
founding team to maintain minimum shareholdings, Li said.  “If the market decides to keep the status quo, I hope that
it would be a proactive decision we reaffirm after thoughtfully
debating the issues and concluding that it is the best course of
action,” Li said. “We should not become victims of inaction
out of fear or inertia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  