-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Crude Rises First Time in Four Days
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-10-24T07:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/top-oil-market-news-wti-crude-rises-first-time-in-four-days.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Oil Rises for First Time in Four Days on China Manufacturing  West Texas Intermediate crude rose for the first time in
four days as a measure of  China ’s economic recovery topped
forecasts, signaling increased demand in the world’s second-biggest oil consumer.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  European Naphtha Shipments to Asia Rise to 21 Cargoes in October  European naphtha shipments heading to  Asia  rose to 21
cargoes this month, almost double the number a week earlier,
shipping data on Bloomberg showed.  Indian Oil Offers to Sell Naphtha Cargo for November Loading  Refiner offers 35,000-40,000 mt for Nov. 12-14 loading from
Dahej, according to tender information obtained by Bloomberg.  Asia Boosts West African Crude Imports to 21-Month High on China  Asian refiners raised purchases of West African crude for
loading in November to the most in 21 months as China increased
stockpiles to meet peak winter demand.  WTI Crude Put Skew Grows as Futures Slide Near Four-Month Low  Crude oil put options jumped on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange as underlying futures slid to the lowest in almost four
months.  Gulf Gasoline at Six-Month Low With Stockpiles at Seasonal High  Gasoline on the U.S. Gulf Coast fell to a six-month low
with refinery maintenance nearing an end and supplies of the
fuel at a seasonal high.  Gasoline Tumbles to 16-Month Low on Speculation Supply to Swell  Gasoline futures slid to a 16-month low on speculation that
supplies will climb as refineries complete fall repairs at a
time when demand for the fuel is seasonally low.  OPEC  Iraq to Boost Oil Output This Year as Asian Demand Strengthens  Iraq , OPEC’s second-largest oil producer, reiterated plans
to boost crude output and exports by the end of the year as
demand from Asian buyers strengthens.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Citgo Says Lemont Refinery Crude Unit Shut Down After Fire  Fire broke out at about 7:40 p.m. local time Oct. 23 at
refinery in Illinois, co. says in e-mailed statement.  ‘Massive Fire’ Burning at Citgo’s Lemont Refinery,  Fox News  Says  Oil tank at refinery near Chicago caught fire Wednesday
night, Fox News says.  BP Whiting Refinery Finishes Planned Maintenance on Reformer  Refinery in Indiana restarting 66,000 b/d unit after it was
shut six weeks for planned work, according to person familiar
with operations at the refinery.  California Gasoline Slides as Two Refineries Recover From Upsets  Spot gasoline in  California  tumbled against futures as
Tesoro Corp.’s Golden Eagle refinery reported a unit start and
Exxon Mobil Corp. said the Torrance refinery had returned to
normal operations.  China, Ineos Mull U.K. Refinery Fate as Chemical Site Shuts (2)  PetroChina Co., China’s biggest oil producer, and Ineos
Group Holdings SA will decide whether to restart their
Grangemouth refinery after Ineos today announced the closing of
the site’s petrochemical plant.  Grangemouth Refinery Ranked 30th for Profit in Europe: WoodMac  Grangemouth in  Scotland  is ranked 30th out of about 100
European refineries in terms of profit, according to researcher
 Wood Mackenzie .  Tesoro Golden Eagle Refinery Reports Unit Startup  Co. reported startup encountered no problem, according to
filing with Contra Costa County Health Services.  Unipetrol Reports Fourth Quarterly Loss on Unplanned Outages (1)  Unipetrol AS, the largest Czech refiner, said it incurred
its fourth consecutive quarterly loss on lower sales caused by
unplanned refinery outages and continuing economic recession.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  was unchanged at 8.42 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Saudi Arabia to Japan Tanker Rates Rises 1.0% to 42.02 Points  The cost of delivering  Middle East  crude to Asia, the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, gained 1.0 percent to
42.02 Worldscale points, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in
 London .  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Fukushima Radiation Prompts Uranium Price Cuts: Energy Markets  Banks from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to UBS AG are cutting the
outlook for uranium prices as radiation leaks at the Fukushima
reactor fan speculation the restart of Japan’s idled nuclear
plants will take longer than anticipated.  JPMorgan Is Said to Draw BTG Bid for Entire Commodities Unit (2)  Grupo BTG Pactual, the Brazilian investment bank founded by
billionaire  Andre Esteves , is working on a bid for JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s physical commodities business, said a person with
direct knowledge of the matter.  Keystone XL Critics Pledge Sit-Ins If U.S. Permit Advances (2)  Critics of the Keystone XL pipeline say they’re still
optimistic President  Barack Obama  will block TransCanada Corp.’s
planned $5.3 billion link between the  oil sands  in Alberta and
refineries along the U.S. Gulf Coast.  Encana Reports Third-Quarter Profit as Liquids Volumes Rise (2)  Encana Corp., Canada’s largest natural gas producer,
returned to a third-quarter profit and beat analysts’ estimates
after increasing its oil and petroleum liquids output as prices
rose.  Itau Taking Fewer Risks Pays Off on Earnings: Corporate Brazil  Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Latin America’s largest lender by
market value, will probably post its highest profit in two years
as delinquent payments drop for a fifth straight quarter.  Bond Bacchanalia Exposed With Sovereign Debt Sale: Brazil Credit  Brazilian borrowers from the federal government to JBS SA
are helping revive international bond issuance from Latin
America’s biggest economy as they take advantage of a drop in
borrowing costs spurred by speculation the U.S. will prolong its
unprecedented stimulus.  Ethanol Traders Renew Complaints About Platts Prices Amid Probe  Ethanol traders revived complaints about prices assessed by
Platts five months after the energy news and price publisher was
raided by the European antitrust officials probing potential
manipulation in oil markets.  BG Sees Tunisia More Reliable Than Egypt for Gas Producers  Tunisia is proving a more reliable place to produce natural
gas than  Egypt  as the smallest nation on the North African coast
pays its fuel bills on time, a BG Group Plc executive said.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Drop as New Zealand Dollar Rallies With Oil, Metals  Asian stocks fell for a second day as China’s money market
rates jumped, increasing speculation that credit may be
tightening in the world’s second-largest economy. Commodity
currencies rallied with oil and metals as China’s manufacturing
beat estimates.  Dollar Weakens Versus Peers on Taper Outlook; Aussie Strengthens  The dollar weakened versus most major peers as signs that
U.S. growth was hampered by a partial government shutdown fueled
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will push back the timing of
monetary stimulus reductions.  Euro Hedging Jumps as Europe Exporters Bemoan Gains: Currencies  The euro’s unexpected rally this year is spurring a jump in
hedging as the currency’s strength threatens to damp earnings at
companies from Deutsche Lufthansa AG to luxury-goods maker LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA.  Asian Stocks Swing as U.S. Shares Drop, China Money Rates Surge  Asian stocks swung between gains and losses as China’s
money-market rates continued to surge and after U.S. shares
retreated from a record amid disappointing company earnings
forecasts.  China Money-Market Rates Surge Most in Two Months as Stocks Drop  China’s benchmark money-market rate rose the most since
July while the Shanghai Composite Index fell to a three-week low
as policy makers drained cash from the financial system amid
signs of a pickup in the economy.  Platinum Shortages Extending as Car Sales Quicken: Commodities  Platinum and palladium will be the best performing precious
metals next year as record global car sales will keep them in
short supply for a third year, according to the most-accurate
forecasters.  Gold Swings After Slumping Most in Week on U.S. Stimulus Outlook  Gold swung between gains and losses after the biggest drop
in more than a week as investors weighed the outlook for the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s stimulus measures before a jobs report.
Silver traded near the highest in a month.  Japan Casinos Not Limited to Cities in Lawmakers’ Proposal (2)  Japanese lawmakers began to flesh out a plan to legalize
casinos, with an outline of proposed legislation allowing
gambling resorts to be developed not only in big cities but also
in regional areas.  North Korea Builds New Tunnels at Nuclear Test Site, Report Says  North Korea has built two new tunnel entrances at its
atomic test site in a sign the Kim Jong Un regime is preparing
future underground blasts to bolster its nuclear arsenal, a
report says.  SPORTS  Ibrahimovic Leads PSG Past Anderlecht 5-0 in Champions League  Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored four goals as Paris Saint-Germain
routed Anderlecht 5-0 in soccer’s  Champions League .  Wednesday’s Champions League Soccer Results  Wednesday’s Champions League group- stage soccer results.  Holloway Leaves Palace With Team Near Bottom of Premier League  Ian Holloway  left as Crystal Palace manager with the team
next to last in English soccer’s Premier League.  ENERGY PRICES  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  