-- Emerging Stocks Fall on Earnings as India Drops From High
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-10-24T21:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/most-emerging-stocks-rise-as-indian-shares-gain-china-slides.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
second day, led by utility and consumer discretionary companies,
amid concern corporate earnings will falter. India’s benchmark
index slumped after briefly surpassing its record closing high.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 0.3 percent to
1,030.82, extending a two-day drop to 1.3 percent. Brazilian
cosmetics maker Natura Cosmeticos SA tumbled to an eight-week
low after profit trailed estimates, while OAO Pharmstandard slid
in Moscow as sales fell. India’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  erased a gain
that drove it above an all-time closing high of November 2010.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank as policy makers drained cash
from the financial system amid signs of a pickup in the economy.  More than half of the 76 companies that reported quarterly
earnings in the benchmark gauge for developing nations  missed 
analysts’ sales estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China ’s benchmark money-market rate rose the most
since June as policy makers are withdrawing liquidity after a
recovery in the world’s second-largest economy fuels the biggest
jump in  home prices  since at least January 2011.  “The early stages, both in terms of earnings and some of
the macro factors that have been driving  emerging markets , leave
more uncertainty than we would like to see,”Bruce McCain, who
helps oversee more than $20 billion as chief investment
strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland 
said by phone. That “doesn’t bode well for continuing the
momentum for the emerging markets.”  Seven out of 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
fell. The gauge for developing nations has dropped 2.3 percent
this year to trade at 10.7 times projected  earnings , compared
with the  valuation  of 14.3 for the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund retreated 0.2 percent to $42.55. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
retreated 0.4 percent to 21.50.  Brazil’s Ibovespa dropped for a second day as Natura
declined 3.8 percent. Brookfield Incorporacoes SA sank to the
lowest since July after a report showed Brazil’s unemployment
rate was higher than economists had forecast, dimming the
outlook for homebuilders.  Russian stocks dropped to a two-week low as oil, the
country’s main export earner, retreated and Pharmstandard
slumped for a fourth consecutive day. Benchmark gauges in
 Poland ,  Hungary  and Turkey advanced.  India, China  India’s Sensex erased a rally of as much as 1.3 percent as
 Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  led a gauge of technology shares to its lowest level
in two weeks.  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s top producer of the
fuel, declined to a six-week low.  The Shanghai Composite Index declined to a one-month low.
Money rates jumped after the People’s Bank of China refrained
from conducting reverse repos for a third straight auction. The
PBOC drained a net 58 billion  yuan  ($9.5 billion) from the
financial system this week as reverse repos matured, said Chen
Long, an analyst at Bank of Dongguan.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 310 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  