-- Tottenham Stays Perfect to Close on Europa League Knockout Berth
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-10-24T22:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/tottenham-stays-perfect-to-close-on-europa-league-knockout-berth.html
Tottenham Hotspur beat Sheriff
Tiraspol 2-0 to join four other teams in continuing perfect
starts in soccer’s Europa League and move to the brink of a
berth in the knockout stage.  Jan Vertonghen and  Jermain Defoe  scored last night as
Tottenham won its third straight game. Eintracht Frankfurt,
Fiorentina, Ludogorets and Salzburg also have the maximum nine
points at the midway point of the group stage in  Europe ’s
second-tier club competition.  Vertonghen put Tottenham ahead in the 12th minute in
Moldova and Defoe clinched the victory in the second half with
his 22nd goal in European competition, tying Martin Chivers’s
club record.  Tottenham, the tournament favorite with bookmakers on
 oddschecker.com , has a five-point lead in Group K over Anzhi
Makhachkala, which beat Tromso 1-0. A victory at home to Sheriff
on Nov. 7 in the next round of games would guarantee Spurs a
place in the round of 32.  The top two teams in each of the 12 groups advance
alongside the eight third-place finishers from the elite
 Champions League  group stage.  Frankfurt leads by five points in Group F after a 2-0 win
over Maccabi Tel-Aviv, while Bordeaux beat APOEL 2-1. Fiorentina
beat Pandurii 3-0 to top Group E ahead of Dnipro, which won 2-0
at Pacos Ferreira.  In Group C, Salzburg beat Standard Liege 2-1 to stay three
points clear of Esbjerg, a 2-1 winner at Elfsborg. Ludogorets
won 1-0 at Chornomorets to keep its 100 percent record in Group
B, while Dinamo Zagreb and  PSV Eindhoven  drew 0-0.  Final Seconds  Djibril Cisse  scored with a penalty kick in the final
seconds of stoppage time to give Kuban Krasnador a 1-1 draw at
Swansea. The Swans lead Group A by a point over Valencia, which
routed Saint Gallen 5-1.  Wigan stayed second in Group D after a 1-1 home draw
against leader  Rubin Kazan , while Maribor beat Zulte 3-1. The
perfect run of Group H leader Sevilla, which won back-to-back
UEFA Cup titles in 2006 and 2007, was ended by a 1-1 draw at
Slovan Liberec. Freiburg and Estoril also finished 1-1.  Genk dropped its first points in drawing 1-1 with Rapid
Vienna though still leads Group G over  Dynamo Kiev , which beat
Thun 3-0. Trabzonspor defeated Legia Warsaw 2-0 to move atop
Group J ahead of Lazio, which drew 0-0 at Apollon Limassol.  Lyon beat Rijeka 1-0 and Real Betis defeated Guimaraes 1-0
to leave the victors tied atop Group I. PAOK beat Maccabi Haifa
3-2 to take over the top spot in Group L from AZ Alkmaar, which
drew 1-1 at Shakhter Karagandy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 