-- Outerwall Profit Beats Estimates, Plans to Boost Buybacks
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/outerwall-quarterly-profit-gains-as-revenue-increases.html
Outerwall Inc. (OUTR) , the owner of Redbox
DVD rental machines that’s under pressure from investor Jana
Partners LLC, posted profit ahead of estimates and said it plans
to boost share buybacks. The stock jumped in late trading.  Adjusted profit was 97 cents a share in the three months
ended in September, compared with $1.26 a year earlier, the
Bellevue, Washington-based company said in a statement
yesterday. That beat the 88-cent average projection by analysts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company has been targeted by Jana, run by co-founder
 Barry Rosenstein , after it disappointed investors for two
straight quarters. Jana disclosed a 13.5 percent stake in
Outerwall on Oct. 4, saying the company is undervalued and it
intends to a seek a sale of some or all of its businesses.  Outerwall said yesterday it will return 75 percent to 100
percent of annual free cash flow to investors, which in the near
term will be in the form of share repurchases. The company will
buy back an additional $150 million of stock, with $100 million
to be bought back by the end of the fourth quarter.  Shares of Outerwall gained as much as 8.9 percent to $67.50
in extended trading yesterday, after advancing less than 1
percent to $61.98 at the close in New York. The stock has
increased 19 percent this year.  The company forecast adjusted earnings in the fourth
quarter of $1.09 and $1.24 a share, compared with the average
analyst estimate of $1.18. Revenue is projected to be $585
million to $610 million, compared with the average estimate of
$597.5 million.  Marketing Strategy  In the third quarter, sales rose 9.3 percent to $587.4
million, ahead of the average analyst estimate of $575.4
million, as the company changed its marketing strategy at Redbox
and rentals improved. Outerwall last month cut its forecast for
profit and sales in the quarter, saying its DVD promotional
strategy, while bringing in customers, led to more single-night
rentals and revenue that was less than forecast.  Rental sales were in line with the company’s expectations
and revenue gains were aided by its Coinstar division and the
acquisition of EcoATM. The venture, a kiosk business that lets
consumers trade in smartphones, tablets and MP3 players for
cash, “continued to perform above expectations,” the company
said.  Net income was $82.7 million, or $2.95 a share, up from
$36.8 million, or $1.14 a share, a year earlier, Outerwall said.  Executives of Jana met with Outerwall management in the
days preceding the disclosure of the investor’s stake, to
discuss options including a breakup, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter. Jana seeks the sale, spinoff or
shutdown of the Redbox Instant by Verizon film-streaming
venture, which has failed to develop into a credible threat to
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , as well as the Rubi coffee-vending kiosks, a new
venture, that made their debut in 2012, according to the person.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  