-- Lovers Dodge Pearl Harbor Attacks in Tim Rice Musical
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-10-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/lovers-dodge-pearl-harbor-attacks-in-tim-rice-musical.html
Only the bravest of directors would
attempt to put the bombing of  Pearl Harbor  on stage.  Tamara Harvey takes a less-is-more route in the new London
musical “From Here to Eternity” by Tim Rice (lyrics) and
Stuart Brayson (music).  In her expensive-looking production, the lighting,
suggestive sound effects, and some well-choreographed slow-motion work create a vivid stage picture which doesn’t
trivialize the real event.  As for the rest of the show, which is based on  James
Jones ’s 1951 novel, a bit of triviality might have been a good
thing. It oozes earnestness with every key change, and hammers
its libertarian message with finger-wagging relentlessness.  It tells the tale of Private Prewitt (Robert Lonsdale), a
young piece of cannon fodder whose anti-authoritarian views get
him into constant trouble. He’s a boxer, a guitar-strumming
songwriter, and an anguished loner with fine principles.  He says things like “Your suffering has made you
beautiful” to a weary Hawaiian prostitute.  He’s a noble-savage sock-puppet, there to prove a point
about the army’s hatred of dreamers. The officers are all
sadists, just to help you get the point.  There’s another plot about an affair between First Sergeant
Milt Warden (Darius Campbell) and the wife of his boorish
commanding officer Dana Holmes.  Book writer Bill Oakes ticks further libertarian boxes with
a scene set in a gay bar. (It was cut from Jones’s novel before
publication.)  Twangy Blues  Brayson provides a lively 1940s score and one or two tunes
to take home. There are seductive melodies for the prostitutes
(“Don’cha Like Hawaii?”), and a twangy blues for Prewitt.  The Act 1 closer “More Than America” shows the soldiers
preparing for battle, dreaming of their sweethearts. A rousing
off-to-war anthemic number “The Boys of ‘41” closes the show.  In a musical that celebrates individualism, this tugging at
the patriotic heartstrings feels bogus.  The show is Rice’s first work for musical theater since
“Aida,” his 2000 collaboration with  Elton John , and his lyrics
are solid rather than inspired.  “We’re simply hanging out to dry, we don’t know where, we
don’t know why,” is a typical rhymelet. There’s nothing to
match “They need to adore me, so  Christian Dior  me” from
“Evita.”  Campbell and Rebecca Thornhill make attractive lovers, and
Lonsdale plays Prewitt as a muscular little boy lost.  It probably won’t be here an eternity, but it’ll be here a
while. Rating: ***.  “From Here to Eternity” is at the Shaftesbury Theatre.
 http://www.fromheretoeternitythemusical.com  +44-20-7379-5399  Muse highlights include the London and  New York   weekend
guides ,  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Amanda Gordon ’s Scene Last
Night, and  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on movies.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 