-- Passport Mortgage-Bond Manager Kong Leaves After Strategy Shift
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-10-24T14:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/passport-mortgage-bond-manager-kong-leaves-after-strategy-shift.html
Mortgage-bond trader Jeff Kong left
Passport Capital LLC last month after the $3.1 billion hedge-fund firm run by  John Burbank  reduced its focus on the
securities.  Kong departed after San Francisco-based Passport Capital
sold its entire portfolio of government-backed mortgage debt in
the second quarter as the market was roiled by concern that the
 Federal Reserve  would cut its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases. Kong, who was based in Westport, Connecticut, and
managed mortgage-bond investments for Passport, said in a
telephone interview that he’s “exploring opportunities” to
join another investment firm.  It was an “amicable departure,”  Steve Bruce , a spokesman
for Passport at ASC Advisors LLC, said in an e-mail. “Jeff and
Passport recognize that the fit is no longer ideal as things
have evolved. Passport wishes to focus on its core  long/short 
equity strategies while Jeff wishes to grow an agency MBS
strategy that has become less of a priority for Passport.”  Kong, 54, had previously spent 10 years at Don Brownstein’s
Structured Portfolio Management LLC as manager of its $1 billion
Structured Servicing Holdings LP, Passport said in a 2011
statement announcing his hiring. The fund returned 50 percent in
the first 10 months of 2010, putting it at the top of the
Bloomberg Markets list of the 100 best-performing  hedge funds 
managing $1 billion or more.  Structured Portfolio Management sued Kong for $10 million
in 2010, saying he violated a non-compete clause by joining a
rival. In a counterclaim, Kong said the firm owed him $74
million, the Connecticut Post  reported  at the time. The actions
in Connecticut Superior Court in  Stamford  were withdrawn in
March 2011, court records show.  Before Structured Portfolio Management, Kong worked at
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, now part of Credit Suisse Group
AG, and Greenwich Capital Markets Inc., which is now RBS
Securities Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  