-- Pernod Sees Slowing Growth as Emerging Markets Decelerate
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-10-24T07:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/pernod-ricard-sees-slowing-growth-as-emerging-markets-moderate.html
Pernod Ricard SA (RI) , the world’s
second-biggest distiller, joined drinks-industry peers in saying
a slowdown in  emerging markets  will stint profit growth.  Earnings before interest and tax, excluding some items and
the effect of currencies and acquisitions, may increase 4
percent to 5 percent in the year ending June 2014, Chief
Executive Officer Pierre Pringuet said in a statement today.
That’s the lowest projected growth since fiscal 2009/2010, at
the height of the financial crisis, when it predicted expansion
of 1 percent to 3 percent.  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest distiller, said Oct. 17 it
saw “headwinds” in some faster-growing economies and that
Chinese cutbacks were hurting sales of baijiu liquor. Competitor
 Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) , the maker of Remy Martin cognac, reported
sales that fell more than anticipated on the same day and cited
a slowdown in  China . The new government in China has curbed
lavish spending, particularly on official banqueting and gifting
-- prime cognac purchasing and drinking occasions.  The maker of Ballantine’s and Royal Salute whisky today
reported so-called organic sales that unexpectedly declined 1
percent in its first quarter ended Sept. 30, missing estimates,
as revenue fell 6 percent in the Asia-Pacific region. The median
estimate of 11 analysts was for a 1.7 percent increase in
organic sales.  Full-Year Guidance  Pernod’s shares fell as much as 2.6 percent, the biggest
intraday decline in almost two months. The stock traded down 2.4
percent at 86.75 euros at 9:04 a.m. in Paris.  “Another day, and another broad-based miss from the
beverage sector,” Jonathan Fyfe, an analyst at Mirabaud
Securities Ltd. in London, wrote in a note, saying Asia was the
primary reason for results below estimates in the first quarter.
“Perhaps more important, however, is the full-year guidance.
Here there’s still more disappointment.”  Consumer-goods companies including Unilever and  Nestle SA (NESN) 
have said that slowdowns in emerging markets have hurt their
growth, and Pernod said today developing economies slid 2
percent compared with a 1 percent decline in mature markets.  “Overall, there is some deceleration in emerging
markets,” Gilles Bogaert, Pernod’s chief financial officer,
said today in a phone interview. “On average, consumption in
those markets is less dynamic, and China represents the majority
of that for Pernod” because of anti-extravagance crackdowns,
comparison with a high level of sales in the first quarter last
year, and a move to less-expensive spirits.  China Outlook  For China, “the full year will be tough, let’s be clear,
and we’ll probably have declining sales, but we expect a better
performance in the second half,” Bogaert said.  Sales in  Europe  rose 3 percent, Pernod said, aided by the
U.K.,  France  and  Germany . Bogaert said that there were “early
signs of improvement” seen in the first quarter. Sales in the
Americas were unchanged, including stable sales in the U.S.  The company expects profit to be cut by about 130 million
euros ($179 million) this year due to foreign-exchange movements
against the euro, primarily driven by a weakening dollar,
currencies pegged to the dollar, and the Indian rupee.  The euro “is starting to be a bit too high, clearly,”
Bogaert said, though that’s “linked obviously to the fact the
dollar is getting too weak due to U.S. fiscal policy.” Half
Pernod’s debt is in dollars, so a weaker dollar will have a
positive impact on its net debt when translated into euros, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  