-- Peugeot Reaches Deal With Unions to Cut Production Costs
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-10-24T15:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/peugeot-reaches-deal-with-unions-to-cut-production-costs.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, reached a deal with labor leaders to
reduce fixed costs at French factories, a key step as it looks
for new partners to expand and shore up its finances.  Unions representing more than 60 percent of workers signed
an agreement to freeze salaries in 2014 and reduce overtime pay
in exchange for investment guarantees and new models, the Paris-based company said in a statement. Two unions backed by 36
percent of Peugeot employees in  France  rejected the proposal.  The French manufacturer confirmed that the plan will yield
about 125 million euros ($173 million) in annual savings
starting next year.  “The agreement’s balanced efforts will help make us more
competitive and contribute to improved profitability in
 Europe ,” Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin said in the
statement.  The French automaker is considering a capital increase of
at least 3 billion euros to raise money for development spending
and to expand outside Europe, two people familiar with the
matter said this week. The new labor deal was a critical step
for Peugeot in its effort to attract potential investors.  The manufacturer has agreed not to shut additional French
plants in the next three years and add a new model at each of
five locations to boost capacity utilization to 100 percent in
2016 from 61 percent currently. Peugeot is already eliminating
11,200 jobs and will close a factory near Paris tomorrow.  Dongfeng Partnership  Under the plan, Peugeot will cut overtime pay by 20 percent
to 25 percent and freeze salaries next year in its French
automotive operations, which employed 76,136 people at end of
2012 or 65 percent of its global production workforce.  The manufacturer said yesterday that it was reviewing
whether to back away from parts of broader alliance with  General
Motors Co. (GM) , a move that could open the door to a deeper
partnership with  Dongfeng Motor Corp. (489)  in  China .  Dongfeng and the French state are considering taking equal
stakes of about 20 percent in the capital increase, the people
said. Dongfeng would offer Peugeot opportunities to boost profit
through expansion in China, whereas the GM alliance is focused
on cost reductions in the shrinking European market.  Peugeot, which reported a first-half operating loss in its
automotive unit of 510 million euros,  reiterated yesterday a
target to cut cash consumption by at least 50 percent this year
after burning through 3 billion euros in 2012. Third-quarter
sales dropped 3.7 percent to 12.1 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  