-- PGA Tour Asks Dismissal of Singh’s Suit Over Suspension
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-10-24T21:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/pga-tour-asks-dismissal-of-singh-s-suit-over-suspension.html
The  PGA Tour  asked a  New York  state
judge to throw out a lawsuit by golfer  Vijay Singh , who claims
he was publicly humiliated by a suspension for using deer-antler
spray before he was cleared of wrongdoing two months later.  Singh, 50, the world’s top-ranked player in 2004 and 2005,
sued the tour in May over the “reckless administration and
implementation” of its anti-doping program. Lawyers for the PGA
today asked Justice Eileen Bransten to dismiss the complaint,
saying Singh agreed when he signed a membership pact with the
tour that the only remedy for any discipline imposed under its
anti-doping program was arbitration.  “No one pressured Mr. Singh to play on the PGA Tour,”
Jeffrey A. Mishkin, an attorney representing the tour, told
Bransten in a hearing in  Manhattan . “He wanted to play, and
like every other player he accepted the eligibility
requirements.”  Singh said in the suit that he used the spray, which
contains traces of IGF-1, a substance related to human growth
hormone, for knee and back problems after checking its
ingredients against the tour’s list of banned substances to make
sure it didn’t contain any of them.  Singh was suspended from the tour in February for 90 days.
He was allowed to play pending an appeal. The tour dropped the
suspension after the  World Anti-Doping Agency  said it no longer
considered use of the spray a prohibited activity without a
corresponding positive test for IGF-1 and gave Singh back about
$100,000 of his prize money that had been held in escrow.  No Test  There’s no test to determine excessive levels of IGF-1,
which is naturally produced by the human body.  While the tour’s five-year-old doping policy doesn’t
include blood testing, Commissioner Tim Finchem said in April
that the tour would probably adopt it if there’s no other way to
test for a particular substance, such as IGF-1. The policy calls
for sanctions if a player admits using a substance on WADA’s
banned list even if the athlete hasn’t tested positive for it.  “An admitted use is a violation,” Mishkin told the judge
today. “You don’t need to have a drug test.”  Singh, a native of  Fiji , claims the tour’s actions led him
to be “humiliated, ashamed, ridiculed, scorned and emotionally
distraught” and led to harassment that compromised his
professional career. He is seeking damages, including punitive
damages, to be determined at trial.  Investigation Lacking  “Mr. Singh was disciplined without the PGA doing a modicum
of investigation, a single scientific test and without
communicating accurately or factually what the situation was
with regard to Mr. Singh,” Peter Ginsberg, an attorney
representing the golfer, told the judge during today’s hearing.  Sports Illustrated reported in January that Singh and
former Baltimore Ravens linebacker  Ray Lewis , who retired from
the  National Football League  this year after his team won the
 Super Bowl , used the spray. Lewis denied using it.  Singh said his caddie, Tony Shepherd, recommended that the
golfer use a product called “The Ultimate Spray,” made by the
company Sports With Alternatives to Steroids, or SWATS,
according to the lawsuit.  Shepherd told Singh the spray was an “all-natural”
product that he had used and that he knew other professional
golfers were using, according to the suit. Singh said he used
the product for about a month during the off season, spraying it
into his mouth.  ‘Insulin-Like’  IGF-1 is an abbreviation for “Insulin-Like Growth Factor-1,” a hormone naturally produced by the human body that is
needed for childhood growth, according to the suit. Children
suffering from growth failure may be prescribed a drug called
Increlex, a form of IGF-1 that is biologically active and must
be given through injection to be absorbed into the body,
according to the suit.  After the  Sports Illustrated  article was published, Singh
gave the tour a bottle of the spray and a urine sample that was
negative for any banned substance, according to the suit. The
tour submitted the bottle to the Olympic Analytical Laboratory
at the  University of California ,  Los Angeles , which found that
the material tested negative for “anabolic androgenic
steroids” while identifying one of the materials as IGF-1, he
said in the complaint.  The UCLA lab determined that the spray contains
60 nanograms of IGF-1, not enough “to be anything more than a
placebo,” according to the suit.  ‘Inactive Substance’  “The substance that was in the spray is an inactive
substance,” Ginsberg said. “The substance that is banned by
the PGA is an active substance. At best, the spray was a
placebo.”  Singh said in his suit that the tour hasn’t tried to
discipline other golfers who have used the spray. Singh has
never tested positive for any banned substance and is being
treated differently than other players, Ginsberg said.  “The PGA has made exception after exception after
exception,” Ginsberg said. “For some reason, the PGA singled
out Mr. Singh and treated him differently than it has
historically and traditionally treated other members.”  Singh has won 58 tournaments, including 34 PGA Tour
events, and also won two other major tournaments, the 1998 and
2004 PGA Championships, according to his suit. He is third on
the PGA Tour’s  career money list  after  Tiger Woods  and  Phil Mickelson  with $68.2 million in earnings and holds the title for
the most wins after the age of 40.  Bransten didn’t rule on the dismissal during today’s
hearing.  The case is Singh v. PGA Tour Inc., 651659/2013, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 