-- Philippines Holds Key Interest Rate as Growth Exceeds 7%
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 3 0 5 3 0 3 ]   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   [ ]   a n d   [ b n : P R S N = 1 6 0 4 1 6 5 5 ]   M a x   E s t a y o   [ ]
-- 2013-10-24T09:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/philippines-holds-key-rate-at-record-low-as-growth-exceeds-7-.html
     Oct. 24 (Bloomberg) --The Philippines held its benchmark
interest rate at a record low for an eighth meeting to support
Southeast Asia’s fastest-growing economy as inflation stays
within the central bank’s targeted range.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept the rate it pays lenders
for  overnight deposits  at 3.5 percent, according to a statement
in Manila today, as forecast by all 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Policy makers also kept the rate on special
deposit accounts at 2 percent, as predicted by all nine analysts
in a separate survey.  Prospects for the economy remain “robust,” and risks to
the inflation outlook are unchanged, Governor Amando Tetangco
said today. Philippine  expansion  in 2013 may exceed the
government’s 6 percent to 7 percent target, and the central bank
will probably hold rates until next year, Tetangco said earlier
this month, even as the International Monetary Fund cut its
global growth forecast.  “They will keep policy settings for as long as they see
inflation remain within their target, even though growth is
strong,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a Singapore-based economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. “They can keep the policy and SDA rates
unchanged for at least the remainder of the year and even up to
the first quarter of 2014.”  The benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange Index fell 0.8
percent at the close before the decision. The peso gained 0.1
percent to 43.095 per dollar, and is the fourth-worst performer
this year among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflation Target  Strong liquidity growth is temporary and won’t fan
inflationary pressures, the central bank said last month, after
reporting money supply increased 30.9 percent in August from a
year earlier. While  inflation  quickened to a three-month high in
September, the pace of gains was still below the central bank’s
target rate of 3 percent to 5 percent in 2013 and 2014.  The central bank today kept its average inflation forecast
for 2013 at 3 percent and raised its prediction for 2014 to 4
percent from 3.9 percent. It cut its price-gains estimate for
2015 to 3.4 percent from 3.5 percent, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said in a briefing today.  The monetary authority has the space to handle any
reversals, and can adjust policy and SDA rates if needed,
Tetangco said. Lending is going to “productive sectors” and the
BSP will keep monitoring price and output conditions, he said.  The Philippine central bank can review reserve requirements
for lenders should peso and dollar liquidity begin to tighten,
Guinigundo said today. The nation’s reserves are at a
comfortable level, with the current account and balance of
payments in surplus, and there is sufficient domestic support to
address any adverse implications of U.S. tapering, he said.  Record Spending  The Philippine monetary authority is in talks with central
banks in the region on currency-swap arrangements, Guinigundo
said, without providing more details. The economy doesn’t need
additional stimulus, with indicators pointing to “resilient,
robust” GDP growth, he said.  The  Philippines  this year won investment-grade scores from
Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and Standard and Poor’s,
as President Benigno Aquino leads a growth resurgence that’s
outpacing the rest of Southeast Asia. The nation is poised to be
among the world’s five fastest-growing economies in 2013 and
2014, according to Bloomberg surveys.  Aquino is increasing spending to a record while seeking
more than $17 billion of investments in highways and airports to
improve infrastructure, with Fujifilm Holdings Corp. and Sonion
A/S among companies that opened new factories this year. Gross
domestic product rose 7.5 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, matching  China ’s pace.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  