-- Pinterest Funding Led by Fidelity Values Startup at $3.8B
-- B y   P u i - W i n g   T a m   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-10-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/pinterest-funding-led-by-fidelity-values-startup-at-3-8b.html
Pinterest Inc. said it raised $225
million in a financing round that values it at $3.8 billion, as
the Internet-scrapbooking startup seeks to expand and develop a
model for generating revenue.  The San Francisco-based company said the funding was led by
mutual-fund firm  Fidelity Investments , a new investor, with
participation from existing investors such as Bessemer Venture
Partners and FirstMark Capital. The round brings Pinterest’s
total funding to $565 million and boosts its valuation from $2.5
billion during a February financing round.  “We hope to be a service that everyone uses to inspire
their future,” Pinterest Chief Executive Officer Ben Silbermann
said in a statement. “This new investment enables us to pursue
that goal even more aggressively.”  Pinterest remains near the forefront of a pack of fast-growing Silicon Valley startups that also includes online-storage startup Dropbox Inc., among others. Pinterest has racked
up funding as it rides a surge of user growth, even as it is
still  testing  advertising and ways to make money. The site,
which is free for consumers, lets people share images of objects
or projects by “pinning” pictures online.  Internet Fervor  The financing comes amid renewed investor appetite for
Internet companies, with microblogging service  Twitter Inc. (TWTR) 
preparing to go public. Confidence among Silicon Valley’s
venture capitalists rose to a six-year high in the third
quarter, with more opportunities and a better environment for
public offerings, according to a September survey conducted by
 Mark Cannice , a professor at the University of San Francisco
School of Management.  At the new valuation, Pinterest is now worth more than
publicly traded Internet companies Zynga Inc. and Angie’s List
Inc.  Vince Loporchio, a spokesman for Fidelity, declined to
comment.  Pinterest said it plans to use the new capital to expand
internationally. The startup recently rolled out sites in the
U.K., Italy and France, and is planning to start its service in
10 more countries this year,  In addition, Pinterest said it is working on investing in
its mobile service, testing its advertising and revenue model,
and spending on technical infrastructure. The company also said
it may use the money on “strategic acquisitions of both talent
and technology.”  The investment was reported earlier by technology blog
 AllThingsD .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pui-Wing Tam in  San Francisco  at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  