-- Pirates Seize Two Americans Off Nigeria, Officials Say
-- B y   L a r r y   L i e b e r t
-- 2013-10-24T22:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/pirates-seize-two-americans-off-nigeria-officials-say.html
Two U.S. citizens have been
kidnapped from an American-flag vessel off the coast of Nigeria
in an act of piracy, the State Department said.  “Obviously, our concern at this point is for the safe
return” of the two crew members of the ship, the C-Retriever,
in the Gulf of Guinea, Marie Harf, a department spokeswoman,
told reporters today in  Washington . “At this point, we do not
have information that would indicate that this is an act of
terrorism.”  The C-Retriever is an offshore supply ship, according to
vessel data compiled by Bloomberg. Officials today cited an
increase in hijackings off Nigeria, the seventh-biggest producer
in the 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
in September.  “We are concerned by the disturbing increase in the
incidents of maritime crime, including incidents of piracy off
the coast of West Africa, specifically in the Gulf of Guinea,”
White House press secretary Jay Carney said today in Washington.
“And we have and will continue to work with West African
governments to build the capacity and political will needed to
address piracy and related criminal activity.”  Harf said she couldn’t identify the captured crew members
of the C-Retriever for privacy reasons. The vessel is owned by
Offshore Service Vessels LLC of Cut Off, Louisiana, an affiliate
of Edison Chouest Offshore International.  Before the latest incident, seven vessels were hijacked
this year in the Gulf of Guinea and 132 crew taken hostage,
according to Oct. 17 data from the International Maritime
Bureau, a London-based agency that tracks crime at sea, which
didn’t provide comparable figures from a year earlier.  ‘Worrying Trend’  “It’s a worrying trend,” said Pottengal Mukundan, a
director of the International Maritime Bureau. “The authorities
should focus their efforts on trying to prevent these attacks.”  The increase in piracy off the coast of Nigeria comes as
officials cite a decline in attacks off  Somalia  in East Africa
amid tighter security and better intelligence to protect ships.  “Compared to 99 attacks in the first nine months of 2012,
17 attacks occurred against ships in the waters off the coast of
Somalia in the first nine months of 2013, in which pirates were
able to briefly hijack two dhows,” United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in an Oct. 21 report to the Security
Council, citing reports from the International Maritime
Organization.  The 2009 hijacking of the container ship Maersk Alabama in
the Indian Ocean by Somali pirates has gained new attention
through “Captain Phillips,” a movie dramatizing the incident
that stars Tom Hanks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Larry Liebert in Washington at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  