-- Potash Corp. Posts 28% Price Drop as Uralkali Ups Output
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-10-24T20:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/potash-corp-reports-28-price-slump-as-uralkali-raises-output.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the world’s largest fertilizer producer by market value, said
the price of its namesake crop nutrient slumped 28 percent after
the company’s largest rival announced plans to raise output.  Potash Corp. received an average price of $307 a metric ton
for its potash in the third quarter, down from $429 a year
earlier, the Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company said today in
a statement. Third-quarter net income dropped to $356 million,
or 41 cents a share, from $645 million, or 74 cents, a year
earlier as potash sales volumes fell.  “Fertilizer customers faced with uncertainty act with
extreme caution,” Potash Corp. Chief Executive Officer Bill Doyle said in the statement. “This was the case during the
third quarter, particularly in offshore potash markets, where
significant purchases were delayed as Russian producer
pronouncements left buyers waiting in anticipation of weaker
prices.”  Buyers of potash, a form of potassium used to boost crop
yields, have deferred purchases since the end of July after  OAO
Uralkali (URKA) , the world’s largest producer, quit a sales accord with
its Belarusian rival and announced plans to boost output and
take a larger market share. The move sent shares in potash
producers tumbling globally on expectations of lower prices.  ‘Trying Desperately’  “The quarter is really reflective of just a market that is
trying desperately to find equilibrium,” Jeffrey Nelson, a St.
Louis-based analyst at  Edward Jones , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s just reflective of what’s going on in the
potash marketplace and the uncertainty posed by moves by the
Russians.”  Potash Corp. expects global potash shipments of 53 million
to 54 million metric tons this year and 55 million to 58 million
tons in 2014, Doyle said today on a conference call. Doyle said
shipments slowed in the second half of this year after reaching
about 29 million tons in the six months ended in June.  “We were humming along” in the first half, he said,
adding that the Russian moves caused “a real paralysis” in
potash markets. Potash Corp. forecasts its mines to run at about
64 to 64.5 percent of production capacity this year, Doyle said.  Potash Corp. dropped 1.6 percent to C$32.41 at the close in
Toronto.  Decline Seen  Uralkali CEO Vladislav Baumgertner said July 30 potash may
fall to less than $300 a ton. Uralkali tempered that view on
Sept. 10, saying it sees support for prices at more than $300 a
metric ton on Asian and Brazil demand. The Russian company
agreed to sell potash to  India  last month for $375 a metric ton,
12 percent less than a sales accord the Uralkali-Belarus venture
signed in February.  Retail  potash prices  in the U.S. fell 13 percent to $594 a
metric ton in the third quarter from a year earlier, according
to DTN Energy data.  Potash Corp.’s third-quarter sales declined 29 percent to
$1.52 billion, missing the $1.57 billion average of 20 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company reduced its full-year 2013 profit forecast to $2 to $2.20 a share, less than the
$2.45 to $2.70 it  forecast  in July. It was expected to earn
$2.29, the average of 31 analysts’ estimates.  Potash stockpiles in  Canada  and the U.S. in September were
42 percent more than the previous five-year average, according
to Potash Corp.’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  