-- TPP Trade Pact Risks Degenerating Into Bilateral Deals, ADB Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-10-24T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/tpp-trade-pact-risks-degenerating-into-bilateral-deals-adb-says.html
The Trans-Pacific Partnership trade
pact risks collapsing and producing a series of bilateral deals
if the 12 nations involved cannot reach agreement on concessions
sought by some, the  Asian Development Bank  said in a report.  Reports that the most recent round of negotiations made
“very little progress” highlight the difficulties faced in
finding common ground on the more difficult issues, the Manila-based lender said today.  Japan’s defense of its farming industry,  Malaysia ’s
proposal to keep tobacco control measures out of the deal, and
the impact of currency manipulation on markets are among issues
impeding progress on the accord that the U.S. calls the
 cornerstone  of its economic policy in the region. Leaders from
nations participating in the TPP said this month negotiators are
still aiming to complete the talks this year.  “The secrecy surrounding the negotiations makes it
difficult to assess progress, but -- from what is known -- there
is the risk of degenerating into a series of loosely tied
bilateral deals,” the ADB said. “Indications are that the two
largest TPP members -- the U.S. and  Japan  -- are proceeding
along bilateral lines, threatening the demanding single-undertaking approach the TPP is supposed to adopt.”  At stake for member economies amid an uneven global
recovery is the prospect of faster growth as their goods and
services find new and bigger markets. A TPP accord, which
involves countries such as the U.S.,  Australia , Japan, Malaysia
and  Vietnam , would link an area with about $28 trillion in
annual economic output.  ‘Ambitious’ Agenda  “Although the TPP’s agenda is ambitious and wide ranging,
it remains to be seen what can be agreed on, given the diversity
of its membership,” the ADB said. “The need to provide
exemptions, or ‘carve outs,’ to avoid a collapse in negotiations
also raises concerns over the final form the TPP will take.”  Countries are seeking concessions for industries such as
agriculture, while U.S. automakers have expressed concern about
Japan’s economic policies and said the TPP should include
provisions to prevent currency manipulation.  The TPP could yield global annual gains of $295 billion by
2025, according to estimates by Peter Petri and Michael Plummer
in a June 2012  policy brief  published by the Peterson Institute
for International Economics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  