-- Primark to Pay Long-Term Compensation for Rana Plaza Victims
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-10-24T08:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/primark-to-pay-long-term-compensation-for-rana-plaza-victims.html
Primark, the budget fashion chain
owned by  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) , will pay long-term
compensation to victims of the collapsed Rana Plaza factory in
 Bangladesh  and called on others to follow suit.  Under the plan, 550 workers, or their dependents, of New
Wave Bottoms, which made clothing for Primark, will receive
long-term benefits starting in early 2014, the U.K. retailer
said today in an e-mailed statement.  To tide them over, Primark has extended a short-term
financial aid plan and it will also guarantee a further three
months’ salary to about 3,600 victims, “many of whom worked in
the supply chain of other brands.”  Six months ago, when 1,127 Bangladeshi workers were killed
in the collapse of a high-rise warren of garment factories,
international outcry led to pledges by western retailers and the
government to set up a large-scale inspection regime and a new
wage system. Primark said 27 other clothing brands should meet
their responsibility to the victims and end delays in adopting a
compensation program.  “Primark is calling on other brands involved in the Rana
Plaza disaster to make a contribution by paying short-term aid
to some 3,000 workers, or their dependents, who made clothes for
their labels,” the company said. “To date these workers have
been supported by Primark, even though the workers involved did
not make clothing for the company but for other brands.”  Primark’s plan is being devised with assistance from the
Dhaka University Department of Vulnerability Studies and
Disaster Management, Dhaka University medical facility,
independent doctors and trade unions.  The company has also
tabled the plan with the International Labor Organization.  Primark doesn’t yet know how much the long-term plan will
cost, as it depends entirely on the needs of the individual
worker or dependents, a spokesman said. Primark has spent more
than $2 million on benefits since the factory collapsed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  