-- PulteGroup Reports Surge in Quarterly Profit on Tax Gain
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-10-24T20:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/pultegroup-reports-surge-in-quarterly-profit-on-tax-gain.html
PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the second-largest
U.S. homebuilder by market value, reported a third-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as  house prices  climbed.  Earnings before a tax-related gain were 45 cents a share,
the  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-based company said today in a
statement. That topped the 36-cent average of 18 analyst
estimates, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Homebuilders are benefiting from a tight  supply  of existing
homes on the market, which is boosting real estate values even
as rising mortgage rates slow demand. PulteGroup has focused on
increasing its profit margins rather than the pace of sales, by
cutting costs and raising prices. While its orders fell, the
company’s average selling price in the third quarter climbed 11
percent from a year earlier to $310,000.  “The company delivered what is arguably the most
interesting performance of the quarter,” Stephen East, an
analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group LLC in St.
Charles, Missouri, said in a note today. While the order decline
was “dreadful,” PulteGroup “turned in an income-statement
result rivaling the best we see in the quarter -- exceptional.”  Shares Rise  The shares gained 7 percent, the most since Sept. 9, to
$17.85. It was the second-best performance in the 11-company
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index, which rose
3.3 percent.  PulteGroup’s orders dropped 17 percent from a year earlier
to 3,781 homes, a sign rising borrowing costs are holding back
homebuyers. The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage was
4.32 percent at the end of the third quarter, up from 3.35
percent in early May, according to  Freddie Mac .  Net income was $2.28 billion, or $5.87 a share, compared
with $116.6 million, or 30 cents, a year earlier. The results
included gain of $5.42 a share from the reversal of deferred tax
assets tied to losses during the housing crash.  PulteGroup’s third-quarter revenue rose to $1.58 billion
from $1.3 billion a year earlier. Backlog, an indication of
future revenue, was 7,522 homes was valued at $2.4 billion,
compared with 7,686 homes with a value of $2.2 billion.  ‘Modest Pullback’  Would-be buyers are taking longer to make purchase
decisions because of higher interest rates and prices, Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Dugas  said.  “We have been consistent in our position that the housing
recovery off lows of 2011 was driven more by reduction in supply
than dramatic rally in demand,” Dugas said on a conference call
with analysts. “Buyer demand since 2011 has slowly, but
steadily, improved and we expect that the recent slowdown in
demand will prove to be a modest pullback in an ongoing
multiyear recovery in housing.”  The builder, with a market value of about $6.8 billion, is
the biggest after Miami-based  Lennar Corp. (LEN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  