-- Qualcomm Told to Pay ParkerVision $173 Million on Patents
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-10-24T20:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/qualcomm-ordered-to-pay-parkervision-173-million-over-patents.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the most cash-rich
semiconductor company, was told by a federal jury to pay $173
million to money-losing  ParkerVision Inc. (PRKR)  for infringing
wireless-network patents used in smartphones. ParkerVision
plunged.  While it’s the largest patent jury verdict so far in 2013,
and ninth-largest of all U.S. jury awards according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, it’s less than half the $432 million in
royalties ParkerVision was seeking. Shares fell 59 percent,
wiping out their gains since Oct. 16, the day before
ParkerVision won the liability phase of the trial.  “Though this outcome will drive huge profits for shorts in
the name like Chapman Capital, it required a terribly naive,
unsophisticated and gullible jury to award anything at all to
ParkerVision,” said Robert Chapman, a  fund manager  with Chapman
Capital LLC in  Manhattan Beach ,  California . “But I’ll take
it.”  The federal jury in  Orlando , Florida, rejected
ParkerVision’s argument that the infringement was intentional.
Had the jury found willfulness, it would have allowed U.S.
District Judge Roy Dalton, who is presiding over the case, to
increase the award by as much as three times the amount set by
the jury.  “We are of course disappointed by the award of damages,”
said Christine Trimble, a spokeswoman for Qualcomm. “We are
grateful for the jury’s hard work throughout this trial and for
the verdict of no willfulness. We will direct our efforts toward
addressing the post-trial process and preparing our appeal.”  License Talks  ParkerVision fell $4.19 to $2.90 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
trading. Qualcomm fell 10 cents, less than 1 percent, to $66.94.  “Juries routinely split the baby on damages and proving
willfulness is extremely difficult these days” because of
appeals court rulings in other cases, said Dan Ravicher,
executive director of the Public Patent Foundation in New York.
Ravicher had held ParkerVision shares and sold them after the
Oct. 17 jury’s finding that Qualcomm infringed the patents.  ParkerVision said it showed the technology to Qualcomm in
the late 1990s during failed licensing negotiations, then
discovered in 2011 that Qualcomm had incorporated the inventions
in its smartphone chips. Qualcomm owns the most widely used
technology standard in mobile phones with  Internet access  and
its chips are used in phones by Apple Inc. and Samsung
Electronics Co.  “This is a significant win for ParkerVision, proving that
our technologies have a meaningful place in the wireless
market,” Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Parker said.  Stock Runup  Qualcomm, based in  San Diego , had more than $30 billion of
cash and marketable securities at the end of its most recent
quarter. It announced in September a $5 billion share repurchase
program to return more money to investors.  The biggest maker of chips for mobile phones, Qualcomm gets
the bulk of its profits from patent licensing and reported $6.24
billion in revenue in the second quarter.  ParkerVision, based in Jacksonville, Florida, lost $13.6
million in the first half of this year and had no revenue.
Investors were counting on a big payout with Qualcomm, and sent
ParkerVision  shares  up 61 percent after the verdict in the first
phase of the trial, when the jury said Qualcomm infringed the
patents and rejected arguments they were invalid.  Qualcomm argued that the inventions were worth little
because they had never been adopted by the industry, and said
ParkerVision wasn’t getting much cash from a technology
agreement with Via Telecom Inc. It said the more appropriate
figure was $17.8 million.  Order Sought  The four patents cover ways to convert electromagnetic
signals from higher frequencies to lower frequencies. This makes
receivers in mobile phones and tablets smaller, more power
efficient and more effective. Qualcomm claimed it never used the
technology and came up with its own ideas.  The suit targets Qualcomm transceiver chips, which have
names like Astra, Hercules, Iceman, Magellan, Napoleon, Solo and
Voltron, used in phones and other electronic devices. Qualcomm’s
baseband chips are key components in phones such as Apple’s
iPhone and high-end models in Samsung’ Galaxy line.  ParkerVision said the judge still has to consider whether
to issue an order blocking Qualcomm from using the technology.
Current Supreme Court law makes it difficult for companies that
don’t make products to obtain such an order. In court filings,
ParkerVision asked that, should the request be denied, Qualcomm
be ordered to pay royalties through the life of the patents.  “The market, though, doesn’t seem to recognize the value
to Parkervision of an injunction against, or future royalties
from, Qualcomm,” Ravicher said.  The case is ParkerVision v. Qualcomm, 11cv719, U.S.
District Court for the Middle District of  Florida  (Orlando).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  