-- Trade Gap in U.S. Little Changed as Exports, Imports Stall
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-10-24T12:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/trade-deficit-in-u-s-little-changed-as-exports-imports-stall.html
The trade deficit in the U.S. was
little changed in August as imports and exports stalled,
indicating a loss of momentum in global economic growth.  The  gap  increased 0.4 percent to $38.8 billion from a
revised $38.6 billion in July that was smaller than previously
reported, the Commerce Department reported today in Washington.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 71 economists
called for a $39.4 billion deficit.  Overseas economies that are struggling to gain traction and
fiscal gridlock in the U.S. are probably holding back  consumer
spending  heading into the holiday season, slowing imports. At
the same time, the report showed imports of capital goods
climbed to the highest level in more than a year, indicating
American companies were looking to invest in new equipment
before the partial government shutdown.  “It’s going to be tough for us to grow exports,”  Jay Bryson , global economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said before the report. “That’s
going to be a real challenge to do unless you really stoke up
demand in the rest of the world.” European companies in
particular face “a lot of uncertainty,” he said.  Another report showed more Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week as California
continued to work through a backlog.  Jobless claims  decreased by
12,000 to 350,000 in the week ended Oct. 19, the Labor
Department said in Washington. The median forecast of 48
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a decline to
340,000.  Stock Futures  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
December rose 0.2 percent to 1,745.5 at 8:34 a.m. in New York.  Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from trade deficits of
$36 billion to $42 billion. The Commerce Department initially
reported a $39.1 billion shortfall for July.  Today’s data, originally set for release Oct. 8, was
delayed by a  federal budget  impasse that led to a partial
government shutdown that ended last week.  Exports fell 0.1 percent to $189.2 billion. Gains in demand
from overseas have cooled since exports reached a record $190.5
billion in June. Record foreign purchases of American-made
automobiles in August were offset by a plunge in demand for
industrial supplies, such as petroleum products and chemicals,
the Commerce data showed.  Imports were little changed at $228 billion. The gain in
purchases of foreign-made capital goods, including computers and
machines, helped make up for a drop in demand for  consumer goods 
and automobiles and parts.  After eliminating the influence of prices, the  trade
deficit  in August was little changed at $47.3 billion. It was
also close to the $47.7 billion a month average for the second
quarter, indicating trade is so far neither contributing to nor
subtracting from U.S. economic growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  