-- Raw Sugar Near Erasing Brazil Santos Fire Gains; Coffee Advances
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-10-24T10:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/raw-sugar-near-erasing-brazil-santos-fire-gains-coffee-advances.html
Sugar is close to erasing the gains
it made after a fire broke out at the biggest port in  Brazil ,
the world’s largest producer of the sweetener. Coffee rebounded.  The fire at Copersucar SA’s terminal at the port of Santos
on Oct. 18 destroyed 180,000 metric tons of sugar and damaged
all of the company’s six warehouses. Conveyor belts that carry
the sugar, shiploaders and “relevant parts of the civil
structures” escaped damage, Paulo Roberto de Souza, chief
executive officer at Copersucar, said in Sao Paulo on Oct. 22.  Sugar rallied as much as 6.1 percent on the day of the
fire, taking the price to 20.16 cents a pound, the highest in
almost a year. Louis Dreyfus Commodities, the buyer of all the
sugar delivered on ICE Futures U.S. this month, said it was
notified by Copersucar about the declaration of force majeure on
shipments, according to an official at the company.  “Force majeure was declared by the handler involved with
the warehouse fire,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at
Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said in a report e-mailed yesterday.
“Reports indicate the ship loaders were not damaged which
should take some of the bullish edge off the market, as the
warehouses themselves can potentially be rebuilt quickly.”  Raw sugar for delivery in March declined 1.1 percent to
19.07 cents a pound by 6:39 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S in  New York .
The price was 19 cents a pound on Oct. 17, the day before the
fire. Futures trading volumes were 13 percent higher than the
average for the past 100 days for this time of day, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Refined, or white, sugar for
December delivery fell 1 percent to $503.80 a ton on NYSE Liffe
in  London .  Legal Clause  Dreyfus took delivery on Oct. 1 of a record 1.49 million
tons of raw sugar to settle the expiration of the October
futures contract in New York. Copersucar was the seller of about
1.2 million tons. Guilherme Pena, a spokesman for Copersucar in
 Sao Paulo , declined to comment yesterday on the force majeure, a
legal clause excusing a company from meeting its commitments
because of events beyond its control.  The amount of sugar waiting to be loaded at ports in Brazil
fell 14 percent over the past week to 1.18 million tons, with
three vessels set to load at the Copersucar terminal canceled
after the fire, according to data from Recife, Brazil-based
Williams Servicos Maritimos Ltda. The ships were set to carry
122,800 tons of sugar. The vessel Anarita, set to load 40,000
tons at the terminal, will now be filled at the port of
Paranagua, the country’s second-biggest, the data showed.  Arabica coffee for delivery in December gained 0.4 percent
to $1.1095 a pound on ICE. Earlier, prices fell to $1.104 a ton,
the lowest since 2009. Robusta coffee for delivery in January
was unchanged at $1,586 a ton on NYSE Liffe, after falling to
the lowest since 2010 yesterday.  Favorable Weather  Favorable weather conditions mean that next year will once
again see a “very good” crop in Brazil,  Carsten Fritsch , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in a report e-mailed today. “What is more, the coffee harvest is currently
under way in  Vietnam , which has caused the robusta price to fall
to a three-year low.”  Cocoa for delivery in December fell 0.2 percent to $2,708 a
ton in New York. Cocoa for delivery in March dipped 0.2 percent
to 1,713 pounds ($2,772) a ton in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  