-- Raytheon Profit Falls 2.8% as Company Raises Forecast
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-10-24T20:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/raytheon-profit-falls-2-8-as-company-raises-forecast.html
Raytheon Co. (RTN)  said third-quarter
profit fell 2.8 percent amid U.S. budget cuts, while the world’s
largest missile maker raised its full-year earnings forecast on
gains in international sales.  Overseas sales are a “major growth area,” Dave Wajsgras,
Raytheon’s chief financial officer, said in an interview today.
They make up about 30 percent of the contractor’s sales and an
estimated 40 percent of its backlog, he said.  “Over time, we see our international business growing in a
meaningful way,” Wajsgras said.  Raytheon, the federal government’s No. 4 contractor, today
reported  net income  of $487 million, or $1.51 a share, in the
quarter, compared with $501 million, also $1.51 a share, during
the same period a year earlier. The earnings beat the $1.33-a-share average  estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company fell less than 1 percent to close at $78.08 in
 New York  and has increased 36 percent this year.  Raytheon raised its full-year profit outlook to $5.67 to
$5.77 a share, up from $5.51 to $5.61 projected in July. It said
the latest forecast incorporated the effects of automatic
 federal budget  cuts called sequestration and of the 16-day
partial government shutdown this month.  Costs Cut  Raytheon also increased its sales projection to $23.6
billion to $23.8 billion from $23.5 billion to $23.7 billion.  Third-quarter sales declined 3.4 percent to $5.84 billion,
the Waltham, Massachusetts-based company said in a statement.
Raytheon’s backlog was $32.2 billion at the end of the quarter,
down from $35 billion in the year-earlier period.  Raytheon has been cutting costs, in part by reducing its
workforce by about 10 percent since 2010 and by consolidating
six divisions into four.  “The environment is challenging across the board from a
defense industry standpoint,” Wajsgras said in the interview.
“With that being said, we have been preparing for this type of
situation for a number of years.”  Two of the company’s major military awards are being
protested by competitors.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  filed a challenge to the U.S.
Government Accountability Office, which arbitrates such
disputes, over an air and missile defense radar award to
Raytheon that may be valued at as much as $1.6 billion. BAE
Systems Plc has protested the award of a radar-jamming system
with a potential value of about $7 billion.  ‘New Normal’  Such challenges seem “to be the new normal,” Bill Swanson, the company’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said on a conference call with investors.  Raytheon was the last of the top five federal contractors
to report third-quarter earnings this week. Some of the biggest
U.S. defense contractors, led by Lockheed and  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC) , reported little harm to their profits despite
sequestration and the shutdown.  The companies had prepared for reduced  defense spending 
with the end of the  Iraq war  and the continuing withdrawal of
U.S. troops from  Afghanistan , and they have continued to cut
costs.  Lockheed, Boeing  Lockheed, the No. 1 contractor, said it cut 600 workers
last week from its Mission Systems and Training unit. The
company raised its full-year forecast as its third-quarter
profit rose 16 percent.  Commercial business has helped soften the effects of
defense cuts.  Boeing Co. (BA) , the second-biggest contractor, beat analysts’
profit estimates as airlines bought more fuel-efficient
commercial planes.  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , which ranks third
among government suppliers, helped offset declines in military
revenue by increased sales of its Gulfstream business jets.  No. 6 contractor  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  reduced its
full-year sales forecast as it blamed Pentagon spending cuts for
the decline.  Raytheon’s sales fell in all four of the company’s
 segments , with the biggest drop in the Space and Airborne
Systems unit. The division’s revenue declined 7 percent to $1.56
billion in the quarter from the year-earlier period, with lower
volumes of classified work and in intelligence, surveillance and
reconnaissance systems programs.  ‘Circle of Hell’  The Missile Systems unit’s sales decreased 3 percent to
$1.64 billion, mostly driven by lower revenue in U.S. Army
sensor programs. Operating income plunged 13 percent, which the
company said was “primarily due to a change in contract mix.”  The Defense Department must cut about $50 billion from its
planned spending in the year that began Oct. 1 under
sequestration. The temporary spending bill enacted to reopen the
U.S. government expires in January.  “It’s entirely possible that we find ourselves an extended
period of time trapped in Dante’s first circle of hell,” Phebe Novakovic, chief executive officer of  Falls Church , Virginia-based General Dynamics, said yesterday.  “So I think all of that suggests that we need prudence and
caution as we move into the rest of the year and the beginning
of next year until we can get a more stable plan from the
government with respect to both the debt ceiling and funding,”
she said on a conference call with investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  