-- RBA’s Lowe Says Low Rates, Weaker Currency to Help Revive Growth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-10-24T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/rba-s-lowe-says-low-rates-weaker-currency-to-help-revive-growth.html
Australia ’s record-low interest
rates, weaker currency and improving sentiment should help
revive growth in industries outside resources, central bank
Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said.  “A pick-up in non-mining investment is an important part
of the story in the return of the Australian economy to trend
growth,” Lowe said in the  text  of a speech to be delivered in
 Melbourne  today. “Our expectation is that this will take place,
with growth in non-mining investment predicted to pick up to at
least high single-digit rates within the next couple of years.”  Lowe cited a better outlook in the manufacturing and
tourism industries after an 8 percent drop in the  exchange rate 
against a basket of other currencies since April, which has
aided firms that boosted their efficiency. “A further
depreciation would be helpful in rebalancing growth in the
economy,” the deputy governor said, referring to the local
currency.  Lowe’s speech reflects increasing confidence the  Reserve
Bank  of Australia’s  two-year easing cycle  and an election that
ended the nation’s first hung parliament since World War II will
allow the country to avoid a growth gap as a resource boom
wanes. The RBA’s No. 2 official said he wouldn’t be surprised if
mining investment relative to gross domestic product fell by 3
percentage points or more in coming years.  “A decline of this magnitude should be manageable, just as
the earlier rise was manageable,” he told an investment
conference hosted by the  CFA Institute  and CFA Societies
Australia. “Other forms of spending will need to pick up.”  “One of these other forms of spending is residential
construction, and the modest rise that is underway here is a
welcome development,” Lowe said.  Currency Fluctuation  The economy’s transition from growth led by mining
development in the north and west to industries like residential
construction in the south and east was aided by a 12 percent
decline in the Australian dollar in the second quarter. The
currency has since rebounded as the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly
delayed tapering bond purchases.  “Whether we will see a further realignment remains
unclear,” Lowe said. “But, from today’s perspective, a lower
value of the Australian dollar would assist in lifting
investment and activity in the sectors that have been
constrained during the years of the mining investment boom.”  Residential Revival  Rising home prices and employment gains in the  construction
industry  are heralding a revival in business confidence in
Australia. The prospect of an economic recovery is prompting
money markets to price in the end of the central bank’s easing
cycle, which started in late 2011 and brought borrowing costs to
an unprecedented low of 2.5 percent.  “This improvement is also apparent in our discussions with
businesses,” Lowe said. “Just as a lack of confidence about
the economy can be self-fulfilling, so too can be a recovery in
confidence. If businesses are prepared to spend, jobs tend to
get created, incomes tend to rise and people see opportunities
where previously they saw none.”  The deputy governor also noted the “steady growth” in
Australia’s population, projecting that at the current pace of
growth, in five years’ time the population will be about 10
percent higher than around 22 million now.  “When businesses are deciding today whether to take
advantage of these opportunities, they face a low cost of
borrowing and finance is available for sound projects,” the
deputy governor said.  “Of course, none of this is locked in,” he said. “But,
together, a lower value of the Australian dollar, an improvement
in business confidence and low  interest rates  provide the basis
for our outlook of a gradual lift in the non-mining economy over
the next couple of years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  