-- Wheeler Doesn’t See Intervention Opportunity at the Moment
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-10-24T22:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/rbnz-s-wheeler-doesn-t-see-intervention-opportunity-at-moment.html
New Zealand central bank Governor
Graeme Wheeler said he sees no opportunity at the moment to
intervene in the currency market to counter a “very strong”
exchange rate.  “If we see opportunities to make a difference and create
uncertainty about the future direction of the exchange rate in
traders’ minds, then we would be prepared to intervene,” he
said in an interview with Radio New Zealand. Asked if he sees
that at the moment, he said: “not at the moment.”  Wheeler is concerned that the New Zealand dollar, which
rose to a five-month high this week, will hurt exports and slow
the economic recovery. Last month he said  interest rates  would
stay at a record low for the rest of 2013 and he introduced
limits on low-deposit home loans to curb property inflation
rather than raising borrowing costs.  “We have a very strong exchange rate,” Wheeler said.
Increasing interest rates “would put upward pressure on the
exchange rate and damage our traded goods sector. We’re quite
concerned about that risk.”  New Zealand’s dollar fell to 83.38 U.S. cents at 11:35 a.m.
in Wellington from 83.50 cents this morning and 85.44 cents on
Oct. 22.  Mike Jones, a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand
Ltd. in Wellington, said the kiwi was weaker today on Wheeler’s
comment that the mortgage lending curbs may be starting to work.  “That may reduce the need for rate hikes down the track,”
Jones said. “It’s seeing the ground crumble under the kiwi a
little bit.”  Lending Limits  House-price inflation  is running at the fastest pace since
early 2008, fueled by a housing shortage in Auckland and
Christchurch. The RBNZ on Oct. 1 introduced limits on the volume
of home loans banks can make when deposits are less than 20
percent of a property’s value. Asked if the restrictions are
working, Wheeler said it is too early to tell “but the
annecdotes suggest that they are.”  “We will be having to put up interest rates some time next
year,” Wheeler said. “To the extent that we can slow down
house-price inflation and transferance of demand pressures
through to consumer prices, then that will give us some scope
potentially to delay the increase in interest rates, and
hopefully we won’t have to raise them by quite so much.”  The official cash rate has been held at a record-low 2.5
percent since March 2011.  Wheeler, in his first media interview since taking the helm
of the RBNZ in September last year, said the central bank has
limited resources and must wait for the right circumstances to
sell the currency to have any impact. He said he is also
conscious that it is taxpayer money the central bank would be
putting at risk.  Wheeler said in May the RBNZ had been intervening in the
currency to curb its gains. It was the first time the central
bank confirmed intervention since June 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  