-- Treasury ETF Volatility Hits Three-Year Low Before FOMC: Options
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t ,   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-10-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/treasury-etf-volatility-hits-three-year-low-before-fomc-options.html
The cost of betting on swings in an
exchange-traded fund tracking Treasuries fell to the  lowest 
level since 2010 on speculation volatility will diminish as the
Federal Reserve delays plans to taper stimulus.  Implied volatility, used to gauge the cost of options, for
the iShares 20+ Year Treasury Bond ETF dropped 35 percent to
11.56 from a June peak, the lowest level since March 2010,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg on three-month contracts
with an exercise price near the shares. The fund has climbed 6.1
percent since a two-year low in August.  Signs that the  U.S. economy  isn’t expanding fast enough to
withstand a reduction in stimulus has sent 10-year Treasury
yields to the lowest level in three months. Reports this month
showed September job growth was weaker than estimated and the
16-day government shutdown took an estimated $24 billion out of
the world’s largest economy. Fed policy makers are scheduled to
gather Oct. 29-30 to consider whether to slow down the $85
billion in monthly bond buying.  “They’re unlikely to taper for the first number of months
into the new year,” Stuart Freeman, chief equity strategist at
Wells Fargo Advisors LLC in  St. Louis , said yesterday in a phone
interview. The firm oversees about $1.3 trillion. “The jobs
data suggest the economy isn’t as strong as they had hoped for
and the budget debate in  Washington  probably caused more
political wrangling than they might have expected.”  Treasury Volatility  Traders are reducing expectations for swings in the iShares
 Treasury ETF (TLT)  going into next week’s  Federal Open Market
Committee  meeting. Implied volatility for one-month options with
a strike price closest to the fund was 20 percent higher than
the  actual swings  in the last 20 days, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s down from Oct. 15, when the measure of
options prices was 65 percent above realized volatility, the
biggest gap since December.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch MOVE index, which tracks
expectations for swings in  U.S. debt  yields, has dropped 45
percent to 63.05 since Sept. 5, finishing yesterday at the
lowest level since May.  U.S. payrolls grew by 148,000 in September, versus the
median forecast of a 180,000 advance by 93 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The data show that the economy had little
momentum leading up to the partial federal government shutdown,
which Standard & Poor’s estimates shaved at least 0.6 percent
off fourth-quarter growth.  ‘Unlikely Possibility’  The below-forecast payroll growth in September solidified
that the Fed won’t taper bond purchases this year and also
assured that it will keep its zero to 0.25 percent band for its
target rate steady until 2016,  Bill Gross , manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said Oct. 22 in a Bloomberg Radio interview. The 10-year yield
will continue to trade near 2.5 percent, he said.  “The Fed’s scaling back of bond purchase in October is off
the table and December is still a very unlikely possibility,”
 Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at Jefferies LLC in  New
York  and a former economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond, said in a telephone interview. “Treasury yields will
stay in a range or even move lower, given the risks that the
uncertainty and frustration caused by U.S. fiscal policy will
affect consumer and investment spending.”  The 10-year yield, used to help set  interest rates  for
everything from  car loans  to mortgages, slipped one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.5 percent yesterday.  Bond Purchases  The rate is below the 2013 closing high of 2.99 percent
reached Sept. 5, before the Fed surprised economists and
strategists by saying that it would maintain its bond purchases.
The consensus forecast was for some reduction in the pace of
stimulus. Economists now predict the central bank will keep its
$85 billion of monthly bond buying until March, according to a
Bloomberg survey conducted Oct. 17-18.  It’s precarious to bet on lower Treasury volatility because
investors can’t predict when the central bank will adjust
monetary policy, according to  Todd Rosenbluth , director of ETF
research for S&P Capital IQ.  “The timing is dependent upon data, and the data is
changing all the time,” Rosenbluth said yesterday in a phone
interview from New York. “There could be some volatility in
Treasury-based products as the market continues to change its
opinion on when tapering will happen.”  Beige Book  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in May that the central
bank may start to slow stimulus, spurring a drop in Treasuries
as the yield on the 10-year benchmark note climbed to a two-year
high last month. In the Fed’s  Beige Book  business survey from
Oct. 16, eight central bank districts said the economic
expansion held steady amid “uncertainty” from the U.S. fiscal
deadlock, while four reported slower growth.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, which tracks the cost of  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index
derivatives, advanced 0.7 percent to 13.42. Its European
counterpart, the VStoxx Index, climbed 6.5 percent to 16.6.  The  most-owned  bullish options on the Treasuries ETF were
October $106 calls, expiring this week, and November $110 calls
with an exercise price less than 2 percent below the last close,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The cost of hedging against a decline in the fund, which
tracks U.S. debt maturing in 20 years or more, has retreated to
the lowest level in two months. Puts with an exercise price 10
percent below the fund cost 2.06 points more than calls betting
on a 10 percent increase, according to data on three-month
contracts. The price relationship known as skew reached 3.39
points on Aug. 22, the most since April 2012.  “If people perceive that we’re in a low economic growth
environment within a strong Fed stimulus framework, then that’s
a recipe for a degradation of TLT implied volatility levels and
a lower VIX,” Michael Purves, head of derivatives research at
Weeden & Co., said yesterday in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Aubrey Pringle in New York at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  