-- Red Sox Top Cardinals 8-1 in World Series; Beltran Hurt
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-10-24T03:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/red-sox-top-cardinals-8-1-in-world-series-beltran-hurt-1-.html
Mike Napoli ’s three-run double in
the first inning started the Boston Red Sox to an 8-1 defeat of
the St. Louis Cardinals in the opening game of the  World Series .  Game 2 of Major League Baseball’s best-of-seven
championship series is set for tomorrow night in Boston.  The Red Sox, who are seeking to join the 1991 Minnesota
Twins as the only teams to win a World Series title the season
after a last-place finish, have now won nine straight World
Series games.  Boston had 4-0 sweeps in its previous two World Series
appearances, in 2004 against the Cardinals and in 2007 against
the Colorado Rockies. The last World Series loss for the  Red Sox 
came in Game 7 of their 1986 defeat by the  New York Mets .  “It’s a blast,” Boston’s Dustin Pedroia said in a
televised interview. “We’re the last two teams playing. Both
teams have played their tails off this year to get to this
point.”  The Red Sox loaded the bases in the first inning on a walk,
a single and an error before Napoli cleared them with his double
to left-center field. The error by shortstop Pete Kozma came on
a play on which umpires overruled their original call of a
forceout.  Boston added two runs in the second inning on a run-scoring
single by Pedroia and a sacrifice fly by  David Ortiz . The inning
included another error by Kozma.  Beltran Injured  The Cardinals lost right fielder  Carlos Beltran  to bruised
ribs on the Ortiz fly ball. Beltran, 36, slammed into the
outfield wall at Fenway Park while reaching over it to make the
catch and deprive Ortiz of a grand slam. The Cardinals did not
immediately release any information on the condition of Beltran,
an eight-time All Star who left the game in the third inning.  “At least we got an RBI and it was a good situation,”
Ortiz said of the catch that robbed him of a grand slam.  Ortiz added a two-run homer in the seventh inning to give
the Red Sox a 7-0 lead, and Xander Bogaerts had a sacrifice fly
in the eighth to complete Boston’s scoring.  Matt Holliday  hit a
solo home run in the ninth for the Cardinals.  Red Sox starting pitcher  Jon Lester  struck out eight while
allowing five hits in 7 2/3 scoreless innings. The loser was
Adam Wainwright, who lasted five innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 