-- Red Sox Take World Series Opener 8-1; Cardinals’ Beltran Is Hurt
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-10-24T04:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/red-sox-take-world-series-opener-8-1-cardinals-beltran-is-hurt.html
Mike Napoli  hit a three-run double
and  Jon Lester  pitched 7 2/3 scoreless innings as the Boston Red
Sox won the opening game of Major League Baseball’s World Series
8-1 against the St. Louis Cardinals.  The teams meet tonight at Boston’s Fenway Park for Game 2
in the best-of-seven series.  Lester (1-0), who has pitched 13 1/3 straight shutout
innings in the World Series, gave up five hits and struck out
eight batters. He won the final game of the 2007 World Series
with 5 2/3 shutout innings as Boston completed a four-game sweep
of the Colorado Rockies with a 4-3 victory.  “He was locating both sides of the plate,” Boston’s
Dustin Pedroia said in a televised interview.  Napoli gave the Red Sox a 3-0 lead in the first inning when
he drove home  Jacoby Ellsbury , Pedroia and  David Ortiz . Pedroia
hit a run-scoring single and Ortiz’s sacrifice fly scored  David Ross  in the second inning.  Ortiz was robbed of a grand slam when  Carlos Beltran 
reached over the right-field wall to make the catch. Beltran
crashed into the wall and left the game in the third inning with
bruised ribs. X-rays were negative and he’s day-to-day,
Cardinals manager Mike Matheny said.  Ortiz was not to be denied his 16th home run in postseason
play as he blasted the ball to right field for a two-run homer
off Kevin Siegrist in the seventh inning. Xander Bogaerts’s
sacrifice fly drove in Daniel Nava for the final run for the Red
Sox in the eighth.  Cardinals Score  Matt Holliday  hit a solo home run in the ninth inning for
the Cardinals’ only score.  Adam Wainwright (0-1) took the loss after giving up five
runs on six hits and striking out four in five innings.  “We had a wake-up call,” Matheny said.  The Red Sox loaded the bases in the first inning on a walk,
a single and an error before Napoli cleared them with his double
to left-center field. The error by shortstop Pete Kozma came on
a play on which umpires overruled their original call of a
forceout.  “They wanted to get the call right,” said Matheny. “Five
of them got together. The explanation was that it was a play
they had never seen before.”  Boston  manager John Farrell challenged the call, saying
there was “no entry of the ball into the glove.”  “Surprisingly they overturned it and got it right,” he
said during a news conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  