-- Regulators Weigh Reductions in Size of U.S.-Guaranteed Mortgages
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-10-24T22:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/regulators-weigh-reductions-in-size-of-u-s-guaranteed-mortgages.html
Lawmakers and regulators are
debating whether it’s time to shrink the size of mortgages that
the U.S government will guarantee, five years after they first
boosted loan limits in response to the financial crisis.  President  Barack Obama  and housing regulators have been
calling for gradual reductions, citing a need to contract the
government’s 90 percent share of the mortgage market. Trade
groups including the National Association of Realtors say it’s
too risky to make a change that would increase borrowing costs
for some homebuyers at a time when  interest rates  have been
rising and the effect of new lending regulations is still
unclear.  Because of concerns that lenders will be too busy dealing
with new mortgage rules to handle a simultaneous change in loan
limits, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  will wait until after
the beginning of 2014 to reduce the maximum size of loans that
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  will buy, acting director Edward J. DeMarco said today.  The regulator of the two government-sponsored enterprises
said during a briefing with reporters that he still intends to
shrink the limits at some point and will give at least six
months’ notice beforehand.  “Gradual reductions in the maximum loan size is consistent
with the strategic goal we’ve set forth in the last year about
gradually contracting the enterprises’ footprint,” DeMarco
said.  Tracking Prices  Until the financial crisis, limits on government-guaranteed
loans tracked  home prices , typically rising at the beginning of
each year as real estate became more expensive. That practice
stopped when prices collapsed.  The Housing and Economic Recovery Act, or HERA, adopted in
2008 to stem the damage from the credit crisis, temporarily
boosted maximum loan limits in high-cost areas such as  New York 
and  Los Angeles  and kept the limits in most other areas the same
even as prices plummeted. That’s remained unchanged as the
market recovered, even with prices that are still 21 percent
below their 2006 peak, according to the Case-Shiller 20-city
home price  index .  Current loan limits “are high relative to historical
standards,” said Robert Van Order, a finance professor at
George Washington University and former chief economist at
 Freddie Mac. (FMCC)  “Ultimately, I think there’s a case for having
them go down.”  Still, Van Order said, “it would be a mistake to drop loan
limits precipitously” because the market is still fragile.  Two Limits  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac currently buy loans as large as
$625,500 in high-cost areas and as large as $417,000 in other
markets. After purchase, the government-owned companies package
the mortgages into securities, collecting fees to guarantee
payments of principal and interest.  Mortgages eligible to be bought by Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, known as conforming loans, are generally less expensive
than larger loans known as jumbos because the government would
absorb the cost of default. Lowering the limits would shrink the
pool of borrowers able to obtain cheaper financing because of
the government guarantee.  The current debate began in August after Obama released a
housing plan urging regulators of  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , Freddie Mac and
the  Federal Housing Administration  to “closely examine using
their existing authorities to reduce loan limits further.”
DeMarco issued a statement saying FHFA was considering
reductions.  Since then, housing industry groups have been trying to
make the case that the market’s not ready.  Private Lending  “While there’s been some return of private lending without
the benefit of a federal guarantee, it remains limited and
available to the most highly qualified borrowers,” the
Realtors’ association wrote in a September letter to DeMarco and
members of Congress.  Loan limits shouldn’t be decreased until the mortgage
industry has time to assess the impact of the qualified mortgage
rule, a regulation that will go into effect in January setting
standards for loans deemed non-abusive, said Mortgage Bankers
Association Chief Executive Officer  David Stevens .  Government-backed mortgages, known as agency loans, are
temporarily exempt from the new rule, so decreasing loan limits
would shrink the pool of loans that would be protected from any
market disruptions it causes, he said.  “If there’s a credit availability concern and we’re not
sure what kind of non-agency lending is going to be done, we
should hesitate,” he said in an interview.  More Time  FHFA agrees that the industry needs more time, DeMarco said
today. “The industry has an awful lot going on on Jan. 1,” he
said. “The better course was to wait and provide a sense that
there would be an ample amount of time for market participants
to adjust.”  FHFA could have more to say about potential decreases when
it issues its annual statement on loan limits in November and
will give at least six months’ notice before taking any action,
he said. Any eventual reduction would apply to both the base
limit and the higher limit in expensive markets.  FHA’s limits have been higher than Fannie Mae’s and Freddie
Mac’s for the past two years, pushing some larger loans to the
government mortgage insurer. Housing industry groups don’t
oppose a drop to $625,500 from $729,750 scheduled for January in
the maximum size of loans that the FHA will insure in high-cost
markets.  Meanwhile, there’s evidence that private capital could
absorb some of the business if Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s
limits fall. Production of mortgages above conforming limits
accounted for 18.1 percent of new originations in the second
quarter, the highest market share since 2008, according to data
from Inside Mortgage Finance.  Mortgages’ Impact  The impact of a decrease would be largely confined to
states with high housing costs such as  California  and New York,
while states such as Texas would be relatively unaffected
because most loans are under the limits, IMF found.  “It’s so hard to say what the housing market can or cannot
handle in terms of changes,”  Guy Cecala , publisher of IMF, said
in an interview. “Two years ago, we had  mortgage rates  at near-record lows, and the housing market was dead. If anything, that
told us that housing activity is not dictated by mortgage
interest rates alone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  