-- Renault Quarterly Sales Miss Estimates on Currency Shifts
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-10-25T07:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/renault-third-quarter-revenue-declines-3-2-on-currency-effects.html
Renault SA (RNO) ,  France ’s second-biggest
carmaker, reported third-quarter revenue that missed analyst
predictions as currency drops in South America and  Russia  more
than offset global delivery gains and higher pricing in Europe.  Sales fell 3.2 percent to 8 billion euros ($11 billion)
from a restated 8.26 billion euros a year earlier, the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based company said yesterday in a statement.
Revenue was less than the 8.5 billion-euro  average  of six
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Nine-month revenue
declined 1.5 percent to 28.4 billion euros.  “It’s mainly due to the currency effect, which is
explained by the fact that Renault’s second- and third-biggest
markets are Russia and  Brazil ,” said Florent Couvreur, a Paris-based analyst at CM-CIC.  Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn has joined other
carmaking executives in pushing deliveries in emerging
economies, predicting “tremendous growth” in the entry-level
segment that’s the focus of the Dacia brand. The strategy is
intended to counter the effects of a sixth annual contraction in
Europe’s car market that has industry sales at a two-decade low.  The shares  dropped  as much as 3 percent, or 4.4 percent, to
65.30 euros and were down 2.9 percent as of 9:16 a.m. in Paris
trading. The stock has gained 63 percent this year, valuing the
automaker at 19.6 billion euros.  Currency Shifts  Renault’s nine-month Russian car and light-truck sales  rose 
12 percent, counter to a local auto-market contraction of 7
percent. At the same time, the ruble fell 8.5 percent against
the euro in the 12 months through September, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Argentinian peso dropped 23 percent,
and the Brazilian real declined 14 percent.  Shifts in those currencies and the Indian rupee reduced
automotive revenue by 5.7 percentage points in the quarter. That
amounted to 439 million euros, Chief Financial Officer Dominique Thormann said yesterday on a conference call with journalists.  Vehicle pricing helped the division’s sales by 0.9 points,
Renault said. A 3.1 percent increase in deliveries to 614,888
vehicles added 0.1 point, with growth held back by a reduction
in independent dealer inventories that Renault didn’t specify.  Inventory levels, which are “a bit too high,” amounted to
about 75 days of supply on Sept. 30, and Renault is working to
reduce that to 70 days by the end of 2013, Thormann said.  Labor Agreement  Ghosn created two top-management positions in September,
overseeing model development and sales, to run the
manufacturer’s earnings revival. The strategy includes a deal
reached in March with French unions to cut Renault’s workforce
in the country by 17 percent and freeze wages for remaining
employees in exchange for not closing plants for three years.  That program mirrors agreements that larger competitor  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  has reached with labor leaders to return the
Paris-based manufacturer to profit. An accord signed yesterday
between Peugeot and unions representing more than 60 percent of
workers will freeze wages in 2014 and reduce overtime pay in
exchange for guarantees of investments and new model production.  Peugeot is also cutting its  workforce  by 17 percent, or
11,200 jobs, by 2015. Part of that reduction comes from closing
a Paris-area factory, which is scheduled to build its last car
today. Peugeot’s third-quarter revenue dropped 3.7 percent to
12.1 billion euros.  Targets Maintained  Renault reiterated full-year targets for its carmaking
division to increase sales and earnings after worldwide third-quarter deliveries rose .  The carmaker “remains on track to meet its objectives for
the year,” including “higher group registrations worldwide,
positive automotive operating margin and positive operational
free-cash flow,” Renault said yesterday.  Group sales in Europe jumped 22 percent last month, helped
by demand for the new Captur compact crossover and Dacia’s
revised Sandero hatchback and Logan sedan, as the region’s auto
market gained the most in two years, according to industry
figures. Captur sales have totaled 48,000 since the model’s
introduction in March, Renault said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  