-- Stocks Gain as Ringgit, Bonds Climb on Budget Optimism
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-10-25T02:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/ringgit-gains-as-stocks-to-bonds-rally-on-najib-budget-optimism.html
(Corrects date for ringgit’s high in second paragraph of
market story first published yesterday.)  Malaysian stocks closed at a record
high and 10-year bond yields dropped the most since June on
optimism Prime Minister Najib Razak will take steps to rein in
spending and avoid a ratings downgrade in tomorrow’s budget.  The FTSE Bursa  Malaysia   KLCI index  of shares rose 0.3
percent to 1,818.93 in  Kuala Lumpur . The yield on the 3.48
percent bonds due in 2023 declined 11 basis points to 3.62
percent, the lowest since July 8, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 3.1608 per
dollar. It reached 3.1413 on Oct. 18, the strongest since June.  “Investors have been buying Malaysian stocks because
economic growth has been fairly stable and the market is
expecting the budget to contain measures to further spur
growth,” said Ang Kok Heng, who helps manage $428 million as
chief investment officer at Phillip Capital Management Sdn. in
Kuala Lumpur. “The Malaysian market has been advancing in line
with global equities.”  The ringgit strengthened for a second day on speculation
Najib will stand by a pledge to further cut state subsidies,
broaden the tax base and possibly announce a new government
services tax.  Fitch Ratings  reduced the outlook on Malaysia’s
investment-grade rating to negative in July, citing rising debt
and a lack of budgetary reform, prompting the prime minister to
raise fuel prices.  Najib increased fuel prices for the first time since 2010
in September and said he’d delay some public projects. The
country has run annual budget shortfalls each year starting
1998. The nation’s proportion of debt to gross domestic product
of 53 percent is the highest among  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
economies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Goods Tax  Malaysia will probably implement an initial 4 percent goods
and services tax that will generate 20.5 billion ringgit ($6.5
billion), or as much as 14 percent of total  tax revenue , in the
first year, according to an Oct. 16 report from DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. The government earlier planned to introduce a 4
percent GST by 2011.  “The market is expecting Najib to announce further
measures to cut the fiscal deficit,” said Wong Chee Seng, a
currency strategist at Ambank Group in Kuala Lumpur. “This is
the main driver for the ringgit’s strength today.”  Fiscal consolidation will be good for Malaysia’s economic
growth, Wee Choon Teo, a foreign-exchange analyst at Nomura
Singapore Ltd., said in an interview today. Any action to
rationalize subsidies and implement a goods and services tax
will be taken positively by the market, he said.  The KLCI index rose for a seventh day, the longest winning
streak since December. The gauge was trading at 15.9 times
projected 12-month  earnings , a two-month high, compared with
10.6 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. Felda Global
Ventures Holdings Bhd. and Petronas Dagangan Bhd. climbed more
than 1 percent in Kuala Lumpur, the two largest gainers in the
benchmark.  Debt Swaps  Malaysia’s GDP is forecast to increase 4.5 percent to 5
percent this year, after climbing 5.6 percent in 2012, according
to an Aug. 21 statement from the central bank. Policy makers
have kept borrowing  costs  at 3 percent since May 2011 to spur
growth in Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy.  One-month implied volatility in the ringgit, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 8.25 percent and
is down from 10.96 percent at the end of last month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The ringgit is likely to strengthen in a knee-jerk
reaction to tomorrow’s budget announcement,” Ho Woei Chen,
Singapore-based economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd., said in
an interview. “Any rise probably will not be sustainable given
that focus may return to quantitative easing tapering
concerns.”  The lender forecasts the ringgit will weaken to 3.28 per
dollar by year-end. That compares with the median estimate for
3.24 in a Bloomberg survey of 36 analysts.  Deficit Target  Malaysia is rated A- by Fitch, the fourth-lowest investment
grade. The cost to insure Malaysia’s sovereign debt for five
years using credit-default swaps dropped to 111.5 this month
from 131.5 on Sept. 30, CMA prices show. That’s down from the
year’s high of 157 in August.  Moody’s Investors Service said last month the  budget
deficit  may exceed 4 percent of GDP this year, warning the
government’s fiscal targets will become “increasingly out of
reach” without additional measures to contain it. The shortfall
was 4.5 percent in 2012, while Najib is seeking to cut it to 3
percent by 2015 and to balance the budget by 2020.  A government report tomorrow may show consumer prices  rose 
2.5 percent in September from a year earlier, compared with 1.9
percent in August, according to the median forecast of 17
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . That would be the fastest
since January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  