-- Rogers Quarterly Sales Rise 1.5% on Smartphone Usage
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-10-24T21:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/rogers-quarterly-sales-rise-1-5-on-smartphone-usage.html
Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,  Canada ’s
largest wireless operator, reported a 1.5 percent gain in third-quarter sales as smartphone users spent more on their monthly
bills than anticipated.  Sales climbed to C$3.22 billion ($3.1 billion), compared
with an average estimate of C$3.25 billion compiled by
Bloomberg. Profit, excluding one-time items, was 97 Canadian
cents a share, the Toronto-based company said in a statement
today. That was in line with analysts’ predictions.  Rivals  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Telus Corp. (T)  have cut into Rogers’
wireless lead by adding smartphone subscribers more quickly.
Chief Executive Officer Nadir Mohamed has fought back by
investing more in the company’s  Toronto Blue Jays  baseball
franchise and buying businesses like Score Media Inc. and a
stake in Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd. to offer more
programming to subscribers.  Rogers fell 2.7 percent to C$45.83 at the close in Toronto.
The stock has climbed 1.5 percent this year in Toronto trading,
compared with BCE’s 6 percent gain and Telus’s 11 percent.  Rogers’s average revenue per contract customer -- a key
indicator of how much each subscriber is spending on calls,
video and Web surfing from a mobile device -- was C$68.77,
beating the average estimate of C$64.23. Rogers signed up 64,000
customers to long-term contracts in the quarter, compared with
the 77,000 average forecast of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The miss was due to consumers’ shift to two-year
plans from the three-year plans that used to be more prevalent,
the company said.  Blue Jays  Rogers’s renewed investment in the  Blue Jays  may be paying
off, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg on Major League
Baseball franchise values. Mohamed bankrolled the addition of
five All-Stars and $165 million in payroll before last season.
While the Jays missed the playoffs with a losing record, the
team and its related businesses are now worth $950 million, 12th
in the 30-team league.  That valuation puts the team at $573 million and the
Sportsnet broadcasting business at $236 million. Sportsnet at
that price is “significantly undervalued,” Keith Pelley, head
of Rogers’s media business, told reporters on a conference call
today.  “The Blue Jays and Sportsnet are a powerful combination in
isolation but are unbelievably powerful when you put them
together,” he said.  Media Sales  Revenue from the media business climbed 12 percent last
quarter to C$440 million as more fans flocked to Jays games.
Sales from the cable business climbed 4 percent to C$873
million. The company’s net income was C$464 million, or 90 cents
a share, little changed from C$466 million, or 90 cents, a year
earlier.  Sales for the wireless unit, the biggest division of
Rogers, slipped 2 percent to C$1.85 billion as the introduction
of cheaper roaming call plans to fight low-cost competitors
outweighed higher data spending.  The European Commission last month proposed legislation
that would ban carriers from charging premiums for roaming
services across the 28-nation bloc. The Canadian government last
week followed suit, vowing to help consumers reduce their phone
bills in part by lowering roaming charges.  Mohamed is retiring in early December and will be replaced
by Guy Laurence, who had been running  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s U.K.
business. Laurence’s experience negotiating topics such as
roaming in the U.K. will serve him well in his new role, said
Mohamed.  “Guy is a seasoned veteran, who’s lived through a very
competitive environment in the U.K,” Mohamed told reporters on
the call. “He knows the business -- is fully aware of the
challenges of getting roaming right, including the regulatory
environment he’s been in.”  (Rogers held a conference call to discuss its results at 8
a.m.  New York  time today. For details, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  