-- Ruble Strengthens Against Basket as Local Taxes Bolster Demand
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-10-24T11:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/ruble-strengthens-against-basket-as-local-taxes-bolster-demand.html
The ruble appreciated as Russian
companies prepared to pay local taxes before the weekend.  The ruble advanced 0.2 percent to 37.1000 against Bank
Rossii’s target basket of dollars and euros by 1:20 p.m. in
Moscow. The yield on government bonds due February 2027 rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.56 percent.  Russian companies are due to pay about 200 billion rubles
($6.3 billion) in excise and mineral extraction taxes tomorrow,
Vladimir Miklashevsky, an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
Helsinki, said by e-mail. U.S. payrolls growth missed estimates
this week, stoking bets the Federal Reserve won’t rush to cut
stimulus that has boosted appetite for emerging-market
securities.  “Until tax payments end, only a notable worsening of
global market conditions can upset the current market balance,
favoring the ruble,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for Russia
and CIS at ING Groep in Moscow, said in an e-mailed note. A Fed
stimulus cut “seems to be postponed until the second quarter of
2014, which should support the demand for risky assets and
depress the dollar,” he said.  The Russian currency strengthened 0.2 percent against the
dollar to 31.7050 and gained 0.2 percent against the euro to
43.6985.  Bank Rossii reported its first purchases of foreign
currency on the markets since February. The regulator bought
1.91 billion rubles for the Federal Treasury on Oct. 22, which
uses it to fill the Reserve Fund, investing in hard currency-denominated assets.  Treasury Order  The Treasury plans to buy the equivalent of 10 billion
rubles of dollars, euros and British pounds from the central
bank in the week to Oct. 29, it said Oct. 21.  “The central bank’s execution of the Federal Treasury
order is not having much impact on the market yet because the
volume has not exceeded $300 million this week,” Maxim Korovin
and Anton Nikitin, analysts at OAO Bank VTB’s investment arm,
said in an e-mailed note.  “We see an increasing chance of the Ministry of Finance
raising its demand for foreign currency at the end of the year
due to the good implementation of the domestic borrowing
program,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  