-- S&C Advises on American Realty Deal: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-24T11:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/s-c-advises-on-american-realty-deal-business-of-law.html
Sullivan & Cromwell  LLP, Morris
Manning & Manning LLP, Venable LLP, Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz
and Proskauer Rose LLP advised on  American Realty Capital
Properties Inc. (ARCP) ’s agreement to buy Cole Real Estate Investments
Inc. for about $6.85 billion as it seeks to become the largest
owner of U.S. single-tenant buildings.  Sullivan & Cromwell is acting as special counsel to
Christopher Cole and certain other executives in connection with
the proposed acquisition. The S&C team, led by partners Alison Ressler and Benjamin Weber, also includes partners Matthew Friestedt on executive compensation and employee benefits and
 Andrew Mason  on tax matters.  Morris Manning partner John G. Morris headed the real
estate part of the deal for Cole. Lauren Burnham Prevost of
Morris Manning handled the corporate side.  Wachtell’s team, acting for Cole, was led by partners Robin Panovka and Ronald C. Chen.  Additional partners on the deal
included Trevor S. Norwitz, corporate; Michael J. Segal,
executive compensation and benefits; T. Eiko Stange, tax;
William Savitt, litigation; and Ilene Knable Gotts, antitrust.  Venable partner James Hanks also worked on the deal,
advising Cole.  American Realty Capital Properties was advised by
Proskauer. The Proskauer team was led by Peter Fass and Steven Lichtenfeld, co-heads of the real estate capital markets group,
and partner Daniel Ganitsky, mergers and acquisitions.
Additional partners included Andrew Bettwy, finance, Ira Bogner,
employee benefits; Sarah Gold, litigation; Les Loffman, tax;
Eric Remensperger, real estate; and Kathy Rocklen, broker-dealer.  American Realty would pay 1.0929 common shares valued at
$14.59 for each Cole share or $13.82 in cash, the companies said
in a statement yesterday. The offer is 14 percent higher than
Cole’s closing price Oct. 22. The merger has been approved by
both companies’ boards, according to the statement.  The deal extends a series of acquisitions by New York-based
American Realty, which this year agreed to purchase  CapLease
Inc. (LSE)  and American Realty Capital Trust IV Inc. to expand its
holdings of mostly single-tenant retail, office and industrial
properties. The real estate investment trust was rebuffed this
year in an effort to buy a predecessor company to Phoenix-based
Cole.  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP is representing ARCT IV. Mergers
and acquisitions partners Michael Aiello and Matt Gilroy were on
the Weil team.  The combined company will have 3,732 properties in 49 U.S.
states and Puerto Rico, according to the statement. The current
largest single-tenant REIT, Escondido, California-based  Realty
Income Corp. (O) , had 3,681 single-tenant buildings as of June 30.  American Realty said it had lined up $2.75 billion in
financing and the Cole purchase should be completed early next
year.  For more, click here.  Fees  MF Global Wants Creditors’ Fees Cut by $2.5 Million  MF Global Holdings Ltd., acting as the administrator under
a confirmed Chapter 11 plan, wants the bankruptcy judge to cut
$2.5 million from the fee request by Dewey & Leboeuf LLP and
Proskauer Rose LLP, the law firms representing the official
creditors’ committee.  The MF Global parent filed papers on Oct. 22 saying the two
firms incurred “enormous” fees in connection with a U.K.
affiliate’s bankruptcy abroad. The parent said the committee ran
up “over $3.5 million” in fees just supervising the two MF
Global trustees’ struggles to recover and settle claims with the
U.K. affiliate.  The U.S. Trustee, who often takes a hard line on fees,
didn’t have the same objection. The  Justice Department ’s
bankruptcy watchdog asked the judge to cut Dewey’s fee by about
$41,300 and Proskauer’s by about $23,500.  Martin Bienenstock , the partner who led the engagement for
the creditors at both firms, said in an e-mail that the U.S.
Trustee’s objection is “well informed and says it all.”  Together, the committee’s two firms are seeking about $8.75
million. The committee’s lawyers moved from Dewey to Proskauer
when Dewey went out of business and into its own bankruptcy.  As an alternative to cutting the firm’s compensation, MF
Global asked the judge to appoint a fee examiner.  Louis Freeh , the Chapter 11 trustee for the parent, is
asking for $1 million, only 25 percent of what he could have
requested for the job. Because Freeh’s fee is considerably less
than the law allows, the U.S. Trustee lodged no objection.  Freeh, a former director of the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation, was a proponent of the Chapter 11 plan approved
by the  bankruptcy court  in April and implemented in June.  MF Global Holdings went into bankruptcy reorganization in
October 2011 alongside its brokerage unit, MF Global Inc., after
the discovery of a $1.6 billion shortfall in customer funds. The
brokerage is in a parallel liquidation under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  The holding company Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-bk-02790, in the same court.  Moves  Pillsbury Adds Environmental Enforcement Lawyer in Washington  Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP said Matthew Morrison
joined its Washington office as a partner in the environment,
land use and natural resources practice.  He most recently was deputy director of the Office of
Criminal Enforcement, Forensics and Training at the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency. He was also the prior acting
director and associate director of the air enforcement division
of the EPA’s Office of Civil Enforcement. Before that, he was a
trial and supervising attorney in the environmental enforcement
office at the U.S. Justice Department.  Morrison will advise clients on making effective compliance
decisions and guide them on permitting, regulation and
enforcement across major energy and manufacturing sectors, the
firm said.  “Matt greatly enhances Pillsbury’s enforcement counseling
and defense capabilities in the environmental field, bringing
insights and experience gleaned from a long and distinguished
career at EPA and the Justice Department,” Pillsbury Chairman
James Rishwain Jr. said in a statement “We look forward to Matt
helping us expand especially our air quality practice both
regionally in Washington, D.C., Texas and California and across
key industries, including energy, utilities, and chemical
manufacturing.”  Pillsbury has lawyers at offices in the U.S., London,  Abu
Dhabi  and Asia.  Morgan Lewis Adds Pittsburgh Environmental and Energy Lawyer  Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP said Kenneth Komoroski and a
group of associates joined the firm in Pittsburgh from Norton
Rose Fulbright LLP.  Komoroski concentrates on oil and gas and environmental
law. He represents clients in matters such as land use and
zoning, permits, water usage and wastewater treatment,
environmental issues, royalties, lease terms, local ordinances,
and related litigation.  “Development of natural gas reserves in the Marcellus,
Utica and Upper Devonian shales present exciting opportunities
and will have enormous impact on U.S. energy independence and on
economic development for the surrounding regions,” Chairman
Francis M. Milone said in a statement. “Ken is at the center of
the legal and business communities in this area, playing key
roles not only in advising clients that have an interest, but
also in serving as a leader in related associations that are
moving thought leadership and related policy forward.”  Morgan, Lewis has more than 1,600 legal professionals in 25
offices across the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Loeb Gets Regulatory Insider for Media, Technology Teams  Loeb & Loeb LLP said David G. Mallen, the deputy director
of the National Advertising Division of the Council of Better
Business Bureaus, joined the firm as a partner in New York.  Mallen has almost 15 years of experience at NAD, the
advertising industry’s self-regulatory body, which investigates
and adjudicates issues relating to truth and accuracy, the firm
said.  “David’s distinguished background enhances our ability to
service clients on cutting-edge matters involving the
convergence of advertising and promotions, emerging media,
technology, privacy and consumer protection law,” Kenneth R. Florin, co-chairman of Loeb & Loeb’s advanced media and
technology department, said in a statement.  Loeb has more than 300 attorneys at offices in  Los Angeles ,
New York, Chicago, Nashville, Tennessee, Washington and Beijing,
as well as an affiliate office in Hong Kong.  Denver’s Stettner Miller Attorneys Join Fisher & Phillips  Fisher & Phillips LLP, a labor and employment firm,
acquired Stettner Miller PC, a four-lawyer Denver firm.  The new lawyers, including two partners, will join Fisher &
Phillips’ Denver office on Nov. 1. Bruce Anderson and Sue
Schaecher join as partners.  Robert Miller  joins as senior of
counsel. Stettner Miller’s other senior shareholder, Ken
Stettner, is retiring.  “These attorneys share our commitment to providing value
to clients through business-focused advice and smart litigation
strategies,” Denver managing partner Todd Fredrickson said in a
statement.  Miller has represented management clients in labor
relations and employment matters for than 35 years, including in
trials and appeals of labor and employment cases before
administrative agencies and courts.  Anderson has litigation experience in state and federal
court bench and jury trials, arbitrations and alternative
dispute resolution proceedings, and in matters before the
 National Labor Relations Board , Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission and state fair employment agencies.  Schaecher has represented employers in labor and
employment-related matters since 1984. Her practice includes
representing employers in bench and jury trials and appeals in
state and federal courts, arbitrations, mediations, proceedings
before state and federal administrative agencies, government
audits, investigations, drafting policies and negotiating
agreements.  The acquisition boosts the number of Fisher & Phillips
Denver attorneys from six to 10. The firm has 300 attorneys in
31 U.S. offices.  Littler Adds Gardere Hospitality Industry Vice Chairwoman  Littler Mendelson PC, a labor and employment firm, added
Celeste R. Yeager as a shareholder to its Dallas office. Yeager
was previously a partner at Gardere Wynne Sewell LLP and vice
chairwoman of its hospitality industry team.  Yeager represents clients in employment disputes, including
class and collective actions before local, state and federal
courts. She also has a traditional labor practice representing
clients with organized workforces before the National Labor
Relations Board and counseling clients on avoiding union
organizing, handling campaigns and negotiating collective-bargaining agreements.  Littler Mendelson has more than 980 attorneys and 57
offices throughout the U.S. and globally.  News  Malaysia Shariah Legal Hub Bid Seen Challenging  Malaysia, which pioneered  Islamic finance  more than 30
years ago, will face an uphill battle in its attempt to make
itself an international center for Shariah dispute resolution,
say local and foreign law firms.  The  Law Harmonisation Committee  is working to encourage use
of Malaysian rules for cross-border Islamic deals instead of
English law, Badlisyah Abdul Ghani, a member of the panel and
the chief executive officer of CIMB Islamic Bank Bhd., said at
an Oct. 7 briefing in  Kuala Lumpur .  Regulations are being amended to remove loopholes that
discourage Shariah deals to make the nation the preferred place
to settle disputes, Abdul Hamid Mohamad, the committee’s
chairman, said at the briefing.  Malaysia, accounting for around 60 percent of outstanding
sukuk worldwide, is counting on a complete set of professional
services to cement its lead in the Islamic finance industry,
which will more than double to $2.67 trillion in assets by 2017,
according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Foreign lawyers may be
resistant to the shift as they aren’t familiar with Malaysian
law, said Megat Hizaini Hassan, head of the Islamic finance
practice at Lee Hishammuddin Allen & Gledhill in Kuala Lumpur.  “We are at the center of the Islamic finance world at the
current moment,” Baiza Bain, managing director at Amanie
Advisors Sdn., a Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic finance consulting
firm, said in an interview. “How do you consolidate that
position further? The only way is to have a legal system that
will inspire confidence in the players to come and do
business.”  The country had $148 billion of sukuk outstanding at the
end of June, the Malaysia International Islamic Financial Centre
said in August. Shariah-compliant  assets  stood at 420 billion
ringgit ($133 billion) in August, or 21 percent of Malaysia’s
total banking holdings, central bank data show.  The Southeast Asian nation has a single set of laws that
govern both Shariah-compliant and non-Islamic commercial
contracts, and they can sometimes render Islamic deals less
competitive, the committee’s Abdul Hamid said. The aim is to
create a comprehensive system for Islamic financial investors,
he said.  “That is a very tall order, an extremely ambitious plan,”
Jawad I Ali, the Dubai-based global deputy head of King &
Spalding’s Islamic finance practice, said in an interview.
“What is almost impossible to reverse is the dominance of
English law in international transactions, whether it’s a
Shariah-compliant transaction or not.”  For more, click here.  Delaware Judges Can’t Hold Secret Arbitrations, U.S. Court Rules  Delaware’s Chancery Court, the country’s leading venue for
securities litigation, can’t be used for secret arbitration
proceedings in business disputes, a federal appeals court ruled.  The arbitration program set up by the state, which allowed
publicly funded judges to make decisions behind closed doors on
business cases, violates the public’s constitutional right to
access to the courts, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia
said yesterday in a 2-1 decision.  “Logic weighs in favor of granting access to Delaware’s
government-sponsored arbitration proceedings,” the appeals
court said. “It would ensure accountability and allow the
public to maintain faith in the Delaware judicial system.”  The decision voids a program Delaware established in 2009
with the objective of bringing more work to its judges in cases
where more than $1 million is at stake. Delaware is the
corporate home to more than half of the publicly traded
companies in the U.S. and 63 percent of Fortune 500 companies,
state officials say.  Delaware Chancery Court Chief Judge Leo Strine “is not
commenting,” Ramona Monsen, a member of the court’s staff, said
after the decision was made public.  The case is Delaware Coalition for Open Government Inc. v.
Strine, 12-3859, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia). The lower court case is Delaware Coalition for
Open Government Inc. v. Strine, 11-cv-01015, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Litigation  Ecuador Judge Testifies He Was Bribed to Rule Against Chevron  A former Ecuadorean judge who presided over a pollution
case against  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  testified that he and a colleague who
issued a $19 billion judgment against the company in the
environmental lawsuit were bribed.  The judge, Alberto Guerra, took the stand yesterday in
Manhattan federal court during the trial in a racketeering suit
in which Chevron alleged that the verdict in Ecuador was
procured through fraud.  Guerra has said in a declaration filed with the court that
he was paid thousands of dollars by lawyers for the plaintiffs
to steer the case in their favor. Another former Ecuadorean
judge who issued the $19 billion ruling, Nicolas Zambrano, was
promised $500,000 from the proceeds, Guerra said in the November
filing. Guerra said he also routinely ghost wrote judgments for
Zambrano and was paid for those services.  “It could not seem as though all of the orders were being
issued for the benefit of the plaintiffs,” he said through an
interpreter in court yesterday, explaining why some of the
rulings he was involved with favored Chevron. “The idea was to
not have it look suspicious.”  Guerra said in court that he was given the bribes sometimes
in the form of deposits in his bank account and other times in
envelopes filled with $20 and $50 bills.  Zambrano has denied that he was bribed by the plaintiffs
and that Guerra or the plaintiffs were involved in writing his
decisions. He may testify later on behalf of lawyers for the
Ecuadorean plaintiffs, who sued over pollution in the Amazon
rainforest, the attorneys said.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S.-based energy firm, claims
that lawyers for the plaintiffs, led by Manhattan attorney
Steven Donziger, engaged in a scheme to extort money from the
company during a 20-year legal battle over pollution in an
Ecuador oil concession.  The company is seeking an order from U.S. District Judge
 Lewis Kaplan  barring lawyers for the Ecuadoreans from trying to
enforce the 2011 pollution judgment in countries where Chevron
has assets.  Donziger claims that Chevron has agreed to pay Guerra at
least $326,000 through 2015 for cooperation and favorable
testimony. Guerra said in his November declaration that the
company paid him for computer equipment and for gathering
evidence useful to the case and not for the testimony.  In the environmental case, Donziger and other lawyers for
indigenous people in Ecuador’s Lago Agrio region sought damages
for Texaco Inc.’s alleged dumping of toxic drilling wastes from
1964 until about 1992 that polluted about 1,500 square miles
(3,885 square kilometers). The lawsuit continued against Chevron
when it acquired Texaco in 2001.  The racketeering case is Chevron Corp. v. Donziger, 11-cv-00691, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The appeals court case is In Re Naranjo, 13-00772,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  