-- Saint-Gobain Sales Drop on Euro’s Gains Against Other Currencies
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-10-24T16:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/saint-gobain-sales-drop-on-euro-s-gains-against-other-currencies.html
Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA , Europe’s
biggest supplier of building materials, reported a decline in
third-quarter sales because of the euro’s rally against other
currencies.  Sales dropped 1.4 percent to 10.8 billion euros ($14.9
billion), Saint-Gobain, based in Courbevoie near Paris, said in
a statement today. Analysts  polled by Bloomberg  had also
expected 10.8 billion euros. Excluding exchange rate
fluctuations, acquisitions and disposals, sales gained 3.1
percent, helped by demand in Asia, a rebound in North America
and “fledgling improvement” in western Europe.  Saint-Gobain joins companies such as Unilever, the British-Dutch maker of Magnum ice cream, and Paris-based water company
Suez Environnement in saying that the euro exchange rate dented
quarterly results. Europe’s common currency has climbed 6.7
percent against a basket of its nine major peers this year, more
than the others, as the euro region emerged from a record-long
recession, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show.
Today, the euro climbed to an almost two-year high of $1.3822.  Saint-Gobain Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Andre de Chalendar has been cutting costs and selling businesses to
adjust to the European car and construction slump that has hurt
demand for flat glass and building materials and put the
company’s  credit rating  under pressure. Moody’s Investors
Service and Standard & Poor’s, which rate Saint-Gobain at Baa2
and BBB respectively, have said they may downgrade the company.  In the fourth quarter, the company predicts the positive
organic trend of the third quarter to continue. Saint-Gobain
said construction business will continue to rally in the U.K.
and  Germany , while its business in Asia is forecast to deliver
“robust organic growth.”  The company reiterated its target for a recovery in
operating income in the second half of 2013, and its goal to
make 580 million euros in savings in the full year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  