-- Samsung Profit Surges as Cheaper Handsets Team With Chips
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-10-25T08:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/samsung-profit-surges-as-cheaper-handsets-team-with-chips.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , building
smartwatches and eyeglasses that can take phone calls, posted
record third-quarter earnings on surging prices for memory chips
and sales of cheaper Galaxy smartphones in  emerging markets .  Net  income , excluding minority interest, rose 25 percent to
8.05 trillion won ($7.6 billion) in the third quarter, the Suwon,
South Korea-based company said in a regulatory filing today.
That compares with the 7.94 trillion-won average of 24 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings are climbing on shipments of smartphones in China
and rising demand for the processors Samsung uses in its own
models and supplies to rivals including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , helping
weather slowing growth in high-end handsets. After adding a
smartwatch and its first phone with a curved screen, Asia’s
biggest technology company registered designs for spectacles to
challenge Google Inc.’s Glass in the wearable devices market.  “Samsung has proved it has better tactics to win the
battle,” said Lee Seung Woo, an analyst at IBK Securities Co.
“In the smartphone race, we should categorize Samsung
differently from the minor league, second-tier players.”  Shares of Samsung closed unchanged at 1,449,000 won in
 Seoul . The  stock  has dropped 4.8 percent this year while the
benchmark Kospi has gained 1.9 percent.  Third-quarter operating profit was 10.2 trillion won,
compared with a preliminary estimate of about 10.1 trillion won
given by the company Oct 4. Sales were 59.1 trillion won,
compared with earlier estimate of about 59 trillion won.  Smartphone Shipments  The mobile unit, responsible for about two-thirds of
Samsung’s earnings, posted operating profit of 6.7 trillion won,
up from 5.63 trillion won a year earlier.  Smartphone shipments rose in the “mid-10 percent range”
in the third quarter, led by cheaper handsets, the company said.
High-end devices stayed at a similar level to the three months
ended June. Sales of tablet computers rose in the “mid-20
percent” range during that period.  “It vacuumed up most of the lower-end market share, which
most of the second-tier players were fighting for,” said Park Kang Ho, a Seoul-based analyst at Daishin Securities Co.  The pace of handset growth may slow slightly in the current
quarter, compared to the three months ended September, with
shipments rising by a “low single digit,” Kim Hyun Joon, vice
president of Samsung’s mobile business, told a conference call
today. Profit margin will remain stable through sales of high-end devices, including the Galaxy Note 3, the company said.  Apple sold a record 9 million iPhones in the first weekend
of sales last month as it rolled out the 5s and 5c to markets
including  China , Japan and the U.S.  Round, Gear  “The Apple versus Samsung smartphone war is still focused
squarely on the premium-tier for now,” Neil Mawston, an
executive director at researcher Strategy Analytics, said in an
e-mail. “Apple is feeling the heat from Samsung in the
smartphone premium-tier and the slightly cheaper iPhone 5c is
Apple’s competitive response to the Samsung threat.”  Samsung is rolling out new devices to target both higher-and lower-end consumers. The Galaxy Round with a curved display
went on sale this month, and in September it released the Note 3
and the Galaxy Gear wristwatch device that can make phone calls,
check e-mails and take photos.  The company registered a design in South Korea for
eyeglasses that can show information from a smartphone and
enable users to take calls, setting up a potential challenger to
Google’s Glass.  Operating profit from the chip division more than doubled
to 2.06 trillion won, compared with 1.02 trillion won a year
earlier.  Hynix Fire  A fire last month at competitor  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) ’s plant in
China has driven a rally in chip prices. The benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit dynamic random-access memory chip  traded at $2.05  today,
compared with $1.60 on Sept. 4 when the fire hit, according to
DRAMeXchange, Asia’s largest market for the components.  The A7 processor inside Apple’s new iPhone 5s was made by
Samsung, according to a teardown of the handset by IFixit.
Samsung processors also are in other iPhones, the iPad and the
iPad mini, according to Barclays.  Capital spending in the third quarter was 6 trillion won,
with almost half of that going to the semiconductor unit. The
world’s largest memory-chipmaker has spent about 63 percent of
the record 24 trillion won in capital expenditure it plans for
this year. That is larger than the market value of  Sony Corp. (6758)   “Both Samsung and SK Hynix are ramping up PC DRAM capacity,
but demand is still outstripping supply,”  KTB Investment &
Securities Co. (030210)  said in an Oct. 17 report.  Stalling Televisions  Profit at Samsung’s consumer-electronics division, which
oversees the TV and home-appliance businesses, was 350 billion
won, compared with 400 billion won a year earlier.  TV makers are reeling from sluggish demand, especially from
China, while tougher competition is accelerating price
reductions. Global shipments for liquid-crystal display TVs may
fall 0.7 percent to 205.1 million units for this year, market
researcher TrendForce said Aug. 22. The final figure may be as
low as 202 million units, it said.  Samsung’s display division, which dominates the market for
panels using organic light-emitting diodes, had an operating
profit of 980 billion won in the third quarter, compared with
the 1.17 trillion won a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  