-- Samsung Pursuing Glasses That Answer Calls in Google Challenge
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2013-10-24T16:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/samsung-pursuing-glasses-that-answer-calls-in-google-challenge.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,  Asia ’s
largest technology company, registered a design in  South Korea 
for eyeglasses that can show information from a smartphone and
enable users to take calls.  The device will have transparent or translucent lenses,
include earphones for listening to calls or music, and has been
registered as “sports spectacles,” according to documents
posted on the  Korea Intellectual Property Rights Information
Service  website. Samsung applied for protection in March, and
the patent was registered Oct. 2.  The race to gain a foothold in the wearable technology
market, which Juniper Research estimates will jump about 14-fold
in five years to $19 billion, is luring companies from Google
Inc. to groups on Kickstarter.com as the barriers to manufacture
devices fall. Samsung released the Galaxy Gear smartwatch last
month that takes pictures and enables users to make phone calls.  “Samsung is willing to throw things at the wall just to
see what sticks,” said  Brian Blair , an analyst at  Wedge
Partners  in  New York . “If they can find the right formula for
what consumers want, they’ve got as good a shot as any because
they have such a powerful, global brand name.”  Google’s Glass is a wearable computer that can take
pictures and videos and share information via the Internet. It
may be available this year or next, according to a company  blog .  Investor Enthusiasm  In April, the Internet search company said it’s joining
venture-capital firms Andreessen Horowitz and Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers to encourage developers to write software for
Google Glass.  Chenny Kim, a spokeswoman for Samsung, declined to comment.
The patent registration was reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  In August, Google bought patents for wearable technology
used in gaming and training simulations from Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co., a primary assembler for Apple Inc. The head-mounted display technology consists of a computer-generated
image that is superimposed on a real-world view, Taipei-based
Hon Hai said in an e-mailed statement Aug. 23.  Google has been amassing technology for its Glass device
from other Taiwanese companies, agreeing to invest in  Himax
Technologies Inc. (HIMX)  on July 22. The eyeglasses can take pictures
and videos and share information via the Internet.  Apple also has a team working on a watch-like device,
people familiar with the company’s plans said in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  