-- Santander Profit Climbs as Property Clean-Up Charges Ease
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-10-24T15:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/santander-profit-climbs-on-waning-real-estate-clean-up-charges.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest
bank, said third-quarter profit rose more than eightfold as
lower costs for absorbing losses on real estate outweighed
falling earnings from  Brazil  and its home market.  Net income climbed to 1.06 billion euros ($1.46 billion)
from 122 million euros in the same period a year ago, the
Santander, Spain-based lender said in a filing to regulators
today. That was in line with the 1.07 billion-euro average
 estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts.  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending rose to 5.43
percent from 5.18 percent in June, while interest income fell,
Santander said. Chief Executive Officer Javier Marin is focusing
on cutting costs and winning higher-value corporate business to
boost profitability and rebuild earnings after last year’s
government-ordered provisions for soured real-estate assets.  “Earnings looked quite weak, with net interest income
down,” Benjie Creelan-Sandford, an analyst at Macquarie Bank
Ltd. in London, said in a phone interview today. “You’re still
struggling to see any signs of real improvement in underlying
asset quality.”  Net interest income, or the excess revenue from interest
earned on assets compared with payments to depositors, fell 16
percent from a year ago to 6.29 billion euros as net lending
shrank an annual 8.7 percent.  Core Capital  Santander  shares  rose 1.1 percent to 6.61 euros at close
a.m. in Madrid, extending its gain for this year to 8.4 percent,
compared with a 19 percent advance for the 44-member  Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index .  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest bank, which reports
earnings tomorrow, has risen 30 percent.  Net loans newly classified as in default reached 4.1
billion euros in the third quarter. That compares with 5.9
billion euros in the second quarter, when the bank reclassified
2 billion euros of loans in Spain as non-performing, and 3.8
billion euros in the same quarter a year ago.  Santander took a 1.14 billion-euro one-time charge a year
ago for real estate losses. Net loan-loss provisions fell to 2.6
billion euros from 2.99 billion euros a year ago and 3.1 billion
euros in the second quarter, the lender said.  “After several years of high levels of write-offs and
reinforcement of capital, Banco Santander is preparing for a new
period of increased profitability,” Chairman Emilio Botin said
in a statement accompanying the results.  Santander will keep studying growth opportunities and will
look at buying two Spanish state-owned lenders, NCG Banco and
Catalunya Banc, as well as the Polish lender Bank Gospodarki
Zywnosciowej SA, Marin said at a news conference today. Marin
welcomed the European Central Bank’s plans to go through the
books of about 124 of the region’s banks, saying he didn’t
expect big surprises for Spanish lenders and that the exercise
wouldn’t affect the way Santander runs its business.  Capital Levels  The lender’s core capital ratio under Basel II criteria
rose to 11.56 percent from 11.11 percent in June. The bank
remains very comfortable with its capital and liquidity levels,
Marin said on a webcast for analysts today.  “They are world-class operators of retail banking
franchises, but our concern is still about Spain and the economy
there, which faces the prospect of extremely low growth over a
long time,” Nick Anderson, an  analyst  at Berenberg in  London ,
who rates Santander sell, said before the results. “The concern
about capital hasn’t gone away and remains a key issue.”  Profit from Brazil, the market that contributes the most to
Santander’s earnings, dropped to 358 million euros from 531
million euros a year ago as net interest income fell 29 percent,
the bank said. Loan-loss impairment charges fell to 1.07 billion
euros from 1.37 billion euros in the second quarter, as the bad-loans ratio slid to 6.12 percent from 6.49 percent in June.  Earnings from Spain dropped to 73 million euros from 342
million euros a year ago as net interest income slumped 20
percent and lending dropped 8.7 percent. Bad loans as a
proportion of total loans jumped to 6.4 percent from 5.75
percent in June and 3.64 percent a year ago.  Spanish real-estate holdings, including foreclosed assets
and loans, fell to 11.42 billion euros from 11.58 billion euros
in the second quarter.  Profit from the U.K. fell to 306 million euros from 322
million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  