-- Saputo A$449 Million Bid Tops Rivals for Warrnambool Cheese
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-10-25T05:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/saputo-s-a-449-million-bid-tops-rivals-for-warrnambool-cheese.html
Saputo Inc. (SAP) ,  Canada ’s largest dairy
processor, bettered two rival offers for  Australia ’s Warrnambool
Cheese & Butter Factory Co., agreeing to pay A$449 million ($432
million) to tap growing demand in Asia.  Saputo raised its bid to A$8 a share, winning the support
of the target’s board. It compares with Murray Goulburn
Cooperative Co.’s bid of A$7.50 and is 18 percent more than a
proposal from  Bega Cheese Ltd. (BGA) , the largest shareholder in the
Victorian dairy company. Warrnambool climbed 3.3 percent to a
record A$8.42 in Sydney.  “It’s a very strategic asset, whether it’s for Saputo to
leverage the China dairy boom, or for Murray Goulburn and Bega
Cheese to access the substantial synergy benefits of bringing
the companies together,” Belinda Moore, an analyst at RBS
Morgans Ltd. in Brisbane, said by phone. “I wouldn’t be
surprised to see the bidding war continue.”  The bidders are seeking to add Warrnambool’s production and
export infrastructure to meet rising demand in Asia as  China ,
the world’s most populous nation, sets new records for milk-powder imports and dairy demand in India outpaces local
production. The price of exported milk powder will this year
surge 33 percent, butter rise 16 percent and cheese climb 12
percent, according to a Oct. 9 filing by Warrnambool.  Sungold, Philadelphia  Warrnambool, which makes brands including Sungold and
Warrnambool cheddar as well as supplying milk to make
Philadelphia cream cheese, relies on exports for most of its
sales and last year made 143,000 metric tons of dairy produce
including cheese, milk powder and infant-formula ingredients.  The “board takes comfort in Saputo’s assurances to
suppliers and employees, as well as its intentions to invest in
WCB’s assets and pay a leading competitive milk price,”
Chairman Terry Richardson said in the statement on the bid.  Saputo will fund the purchase using a C$500 million ($480
million) three-year bank term loan, it said in a separate
statement.  Bega Cheese  holds 18 percent  of Warrnambool and Murray
Goulburn holds 17 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  New South Wales-state based Bega would receive about A$82
million in cash if it accepted Saputo’s new offer and could use
the funds to pursue other targets, RBS Morgans’ Moore said. “I
expect it will continue on its path of M&A, Warrnambool is not
its only option,” she said.  Murray Goulburn remains committed to its offer and expects
resolving Warrnambool’s future ownership “will be a long
process,” the Melbourne-based company said today in a
 statement . It urged the Foreign Investment Review Board to delay
any decision on Saputo’s offer until its own application to the
Australian Competition Tribunal has been considered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  