-- Saudi Women Plan to Hit Roads in New Push for Right to Drive
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-10-25T15:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/saudi-women-plan-to-hit-roads-in-latest-push-for-right-to-drive.html
A group of Saudi Arabian women plan
a protest tomorrow defying the world’s only ban on female
drivers.  Organizers are urging women across the country to take to
the roads. The group, named the “26th October Women’s Driving
Campaign,” called on the government to provide “a valid and
legal justification” for maintaining the ban, and “not simply
defer to social consensus,” according to its  website . More than
16,000 people signed an online petition in support.  King Abdullah has expanded the rights of women in the
world’s biggest oil exporter, without moving fast enough to
satisfy many. Abdullah, who must contend with opposition from
traditionalist clerics and their followers, opened the first
coeducational university, named the first female deputy minister
and said women can vote and run in municipal elections. That
right won’t take effect until the 2015 polls though, while the
driving ban remains in force.  “We should feel insulted if someone says we are not ready
for this change or that women cannot do this,” said May al-Suwayan, a 32-year-old economic researcher who’s planning to
drive as part of the protest. “I don’t think Saudis look down
on women,” she said by phone from  Riyadh . “I think it’s a
matter of fear of change, which will easily be overcome if women
show them that we are ready.”  Driving ‘Conspiracy’  There’s strong resistance to such views.  A group of religious men rallied outside the  Royal Court  in
Jeddah on Oct. 22, calling the right-to-drive movement a
“conspiracy” against the government,  al-Hayat  newspaper
reported. Sheikh Saleh bin Saad al-Luhaidan, a Saudi cleric,
told the Sabq website last month that Saudi women shouldn’t
drive because they risk damaging their ovaries.  Saudi Arabia is the birthplace of the austere Wahhabi form
of Islam. Saudi women need a guardian’s consent to travel
outside the country, marry or conduct official business.  Saudi Arabia “reduces women to the status of children,
unable to make important decisions about their lives,”  Human
Rights Watch  said in a  statement  on Oct. 22.  Amnesty
International  said yesterday that the driving ban is
“discriminatory and demeaning to women and must be overturned
immediately.”  The  Interior Ministry  warned women against joining
tomorrow’s protest, saying laws will be enforced and instability
won’t be permitted, according to the official Saudi Press
Agency. Those “inciting” women to drive will be penalized,
Ministry spokesman Major General Mansour al-Turki told Al Hayat
newspaper. Activists have been using social media outlets to
spread word of the campaign and share pictures of women driving.  Working Women  The campaign group’s website was hacked today, replacing
information about the protest with a picture of a hooded figure
and the English-language phrase “Drop the leadership of Saudi
women.”  King Abdullah ,  born in 1924 , has stepped up spending to
help create jobs since unrest spread through the Arab world in
2011, and women have shared some of the benefits. A total of
680,000 women were employed in 2012, up from 505,000 in 2009,
according to  official figures . Women have been allowed to take
retail jobs that were previously barred.  Wider educational opportunities are also set to boost
women’s role in the economy. Sara Aalamari, a 27 year-old who
works for the  Al-Ghazzawi  law firm in Jeddah, this year became
one of the first four women to receive licenses to practice law
from the Ministry of Justice, after graduating in 2008 from the
first law degree program offered to Saudi women.  Daughters Abroad  The license “should make it easier for us to be able to
appear in court and represent more clients,” Aalamari said by
telephone from Jeddah. “Women are getting assistance to have a
greater role in the workplace.”  Economic pressure may help open Saudi roads to women, said
John Sfakianakis, chief investment strategist at MASIC in  Saudi
Arabia .  The cost of employing a driver “is a burden on middle-class purchasing power, and that could be addressed if women are
allowed to drive,” he said.  Fawziah al-Hani, a 50-year-old social worker from Safwa in
the  Eastern Province , said the cost of hiring a driver takes a
toll on her budget. She also says she has broader concerns.  “I’m not fighting for my rights alone, I’m fighting for my
children’s,” she said. “Some of my daughters are studying
abroad. They call me sometimes and tell me they don’t want to
come back to Saudi Arabia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  