-- HSBC Hired on Saudi Debt Deals as Bank Sees More IPOs
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-10-24T10:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/hsbc-hired-on-saudi-debt-deals-as-bank-sees-ipos-accelerating.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the  Persian
Gulf ’s top bond underwriter, said it’s been hired on several
debt and equity capital market deals in Saudi Arabia as local
borrowers pursue financing for projects and infrastructure.  The  London-based bank  is helping Saudi borrowers in the
power and utility, food and financial sectors, Fahad Al Saif,
head of  capital markets  and corporate finance for HSBC in the
country, said by telephone. The bank also expects “a lot of
activity” in Saudi initial public offerings in 2014, he said.  Saudi Arabia, which approved a $219 billion budget this
year, is tendering contracts to build roads, railways and ports
as it seeks to improve its infrastructure and boost employment
after protests toppled leaders across the  Middle East .  King Abdullah  unveiled a $130 billion stimulus plan in 2011.  “HSBC has several debt capital market mandates in the
pipeline for the rest of the year and first quarter of 2014,”
Al Saif said in the interview, without giving names. “Sectors
such as transport need financing. Port companies, railways and
airlines are looking to do this either through banks or sukuk.”  Al Saif said that he expects an additional 10 billion Saudi
riyals ($2.7 billion) of sukuk, or Islamic bonds which comply
with the ban on interest, to be issued before the end of the
year in  Saudi Arabia  and a similar amount in the first quarter.  Islamic Debt  Saudi Arabian companies have raised $12 billion through
Islamic debt sales so far this year, up from $8.8 billion a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. HSBC helped
arrange $4.5 billion, or 37 percent, of sales in the Kingdom,
down from 79 percent a year earlier, the data show.  HSBC last month helped arrange a 15.2 billion-riyal sukuk
for government-owned airport developer  General Authority  of
Civil Aviation. It also helped foodmaker Almarai Co. raise 1.7
billion riyals in the kingdom’s first perpetual sukuk.  HSBC expects more “hybrid issuances from companies that
want to mimic the Almarai issue” as well as “high-yield
issuances related to high profile projects such as industrial
cities,” Al Saif said. “We’ll also see more institutions with
limited access to the market pursue ratings.”  Saudi British Bank, in which HSBC holds 40 percent, plans
to sell Islamic bonds by the end of the year, Reuters reported
Aug. 26, while Saudi Electricity hired banks for a sale, MEED
reported Sept. 24.  Saudi Hollandi Bank (AAAL)  approved a private
offering of riyal-denominated sukuk to support its capital base,
according to a Sept. 26 statement to the Saudi stock exchange.  HSBC is also working on “several” initial public
offerings and rights issues “across many sectors, including
aviation and logistics, retail and other industrials,” Al Saif
said. “With a number of companies considering primary or
secondary offerings, we are optimistic that there will be a
healthy amount of activity next year.”  Acquisition financing “will be a theme of 2014” as merger
and acquisition deals increase in Saudi Arabia, Al Saif said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  