-- Schwarzman Calls China Good Bet as GDP Rebound Defies Naysayers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-24T06:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/schwarzman-calls-china-good-bet-as-gdp-rebound-defies-naysayers.html
Stephen Schwarzman , chief executive
officer of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , said China offers good long-term
opportunities because of the government’s economic management,
after a recent economic slowdown proved milder than many
analysts had forecast.  The world’s biggest private-equity firm is investing in
property projects including distribution centers and a
skyscraper in Shanghai, Schwarzman said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today, declining to name them. A Communist
Party meeting next month may produce “very substantial
reforms,” he said, while visiting Beijing for the
groundbreaking of Schwarzman Scholars College at Tsinghua
University.  China’s ruling party meets next month to discuss rolling
out policies that may limit expansion temporarily while
strengthening the foundations of the world’s second-largest
economy. Growth accelerated for the first time in three quarters
in the July-September period, government data showed last week,
as Premier  Li Keqiang  spurred factory output and investment.  “The Chinese economy has not done what a number of
commentators thought it would, which was really slow down
enormously,” Schwarzman said in an interview with Stephen Engle. “China is a really good long-term bet. They have smart
leaders, they make decisions, they address questions.”  The 66-year-old billionaire is donating $100 million to the
$300 million Schwarzman Scholars program at Tsinghua, which will
enroll students from the U.S., Europe and countries including
 South Korea , Japan and India.  Among Blackstone’s recent investments in China,  Pactera
Technology International Ltd. (PACT)  last week agreed to be bought in a
deal that values the Dalian-based provider of technology
outsourcing services at $645 million. Blackstone bought the
Greensborough Plaza mall in  Melbourne  for A$360 million ($347
million), a person familiar with the transaction said in July.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nathaniel Espino in Beijing at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  