-- Scotiabank’s Waugh Sees Asia Driving Growth
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-10-24T14:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/scotiabank-s-waugh-sees-asia-driving-growth.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s  Richard Waugh ,
who is stepping down next week after 43 years at Canada’s third-largest lender, said future growth will probably be in  Asia 
after decades of expansion in  Latin America .  “There will be a greater focus in Asia,” said Waugh, 65,
who is retiring Nov. 1 and relinquishing the chief executive
officer role to President  Brian Porter . “Southeast Asia has
been, and will remain, attractive to us, both for size of
markets and demographics, and because of some of our history
there.”  Scotiabank’s international growth will more likely come
from acquiring or building up businesses in Southeast Asia than
in countries like  Brazil , said Waugh, who started as a C$7,400-a-year teller in Manitoba. As CEO, he led the Toronto-based bank
through the global financial crisis while adding assets in Latin
America and Asia and expanding domestically with Canadian
takeovers.  “A large part of Scotia’s success in expansion has been
via acquisitions,”  John Aiken , a Barclays Plc analyst in
Toronto, said yesterday in an interview. “It’s a testament to
Rick’s strategy and his ability to manage the bank and his team
that investors are very comfortable with Scotia as an allocator
of capital.”  Waugh’s legacy of deals include last year’s $1 billion
purchase of a 51 percent stake in  Colombia ’s Banco Colpatria Red
Multibanca Colpatria SA, the lender’s largest foreign purchase,
and the C$3.1 billion ($3 billion) takeover of ING Groep NV’s
Canadian operations in November.  ‘Biggest Regret’  “We did 40 acquisitions, C$13 billion since the crisis --
that’s a pretty heavy workload for everybody that had to do
it,” Waugh said in an Oct. 22 interview at the bank’s
headquarters.  “My biggest regret is we did that at a time when the
economies were not growing at optimum,” Waugh said, adding that
he would have loved a year or two of normal economic growth to
show that the businesses could really take off. “It would have
been nice to have the wind at your back than having all these
headwinds.”  During Waugh’s 10-year tenure as CEO, Scotiabank had an
average annual return of 11 percent and a  total return  of about
185 percent. The lender outperformed  Canada ’s benchmark Standard
& Poor’s/TSX Composite  Index (SPTSX)  during the period, while lagging
behind  Royal Bank of Canada ’s 222 percent return and the 217
percent gain of  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)  Scotiabank  rose  0.4
percent to C$62.38 at 9:37 a.m. in Toronto.  Winnipeg Teller  Waugh more than doubled assets and profits during his term.
When he took over in December 2003, Scotiabank had total assets
of C$281.5 billion and had just come off a year with annual
profit of C$2.48 billion. The bank now has C$742.6 billion of
total assets, and had C$5 billion  profit  for the first three
quarters of this year ending Oct. 31. Net income for fiscal 2012
was C$6.47 billion, financial statements show.  “Rick accomplished a whole host of objectives that he set
out for himself,” Aiken said. “I don’t think you’d get any
argument that Rick has been very successful in his
stewardship.”  Waugh began his Scotiabank career in 1970 as a branch
teller in Winnipeg. He rose through the ranks, taking on senior
roles until becoming president in January 2003 and then CEO on
Dec. 2, 2003. His total compensation last year was C$11.1
million.  File Closed  When Waugh took over from former CEO Peter Godsoe,
Scotiabank had just shelved plans to spend as much as C$3
billion on U.S. retail bank acquisitions after deeming the
assets too expensive. Scotiabank and  Bank of Montreal  ended
merger talks in 2002 because of the government’s continued
opposition to domestic bank mergers, the Globe and Mail reported
at the time. Waugh, who wouldn’t say if the two banks talked,
said “there was a lot of sense in the merging of certain
banks” and that Scotia was “seriously thinking about those
possibilities.”  The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
2008, which helped trigger the global financial crisis, and
concerns about banks being “too big to fail” has ended any
Canadian bank-merger discussion, said Waugh.  “While I think a case could be made, I think that post-Lehman that file is closed for a long, long time,” Waugh said.  Stricter Requirements  Waugh hands over control as banks around the world are
being asked to bolster capital and meet stricter requirements
from global regulators to reduce risk and avoid another
financial crisis. Porter’s biggest challenge will be “sub-optimal economic growth,” said Waugh, who will remain on the
bank’s board and take on the role of deputy chairman until Jan.
31.  “We’ve got all these operational costs, regulatory, etc.,
and we’ve got to manage the expense line,” said Waugh, who’s
also a vice chairman of the Washington-based  Institute of
International Finance . “He’s still got a headwind on the
growth, and that’s his challenge.”  Porter led the international banking business from 2010
until being named  president  last year. He was group head of risk
and treasury from 2008 to 2010 and chief risk officer from 2006
to 2008.  “You shouldn’t expect a great deal of change,” Gavin Graham, chief strategy officer at Integris Pension Management
Corp., said in a telephone interview. “Anybody who’s in senior
management at Scotia for the last decade has been involved for
the push to get international exposure up, especially in Latin
America and Asia and also building their wealth-management
business.”  Wealth Management  Waugh said he expects Scotiabank to benefit from
diversification across four business areas -- Canadian banking,
international banking, global wealth and insurance and its
capital markets unit. He said one of his greatest
accomplishments was building up Scotiabank’s  wealth-management 
unit by buying the Canadian business of E*Trade Financial Corp.
for $442 million in 2008 and spending C$2.3 billion for a 37
percent stake in Toronto-based money manager CI Financial Income
Fund the same year, and later acquiring DundeeWealth Inc. in
2011.  “Ten years ago, wealth management as we define it was
probably only three or four percent of our earnings, and yet it
was very important,” Waugh said, noting that the business today
represents almost 20 percent of profit. “That adds to
diversification and adds meaning to what our customers and the
demographics want.”  ING Canada  The ING Canada acquisition was another highlight for Waugh,
after his initial reservations on the online banking platform
with C$30 billion of deposits.  “When we got in there and looked at it, it really changed
my mind,” Waugh said. “This is truly a game-changer for us.”  The operation falls within Canadian banking, Scotiabank’s
most profitable business with a 36 percent return on equity this
year.  International banking, Scotiabank’s business with the
lowest returns, at 15 percent, still has lots of potential, he
said. Scotiabank, with operations in more than 55 countries,
gets more than a quarter of its annual profit from international
banking.  “ Emerging markets  are not all the same,” Waugh said.
“We’ve chosen emerging markets --  Peru ,  Chile ,  Mexico ,
Colombia,  Thailand ,  Panama  and others -- where the demographics,
growth rates are performing well.”  Brazil is an area where Scotia is unlikely to expand, he
said. Waugh tried three times in the 1990s to buy a bank in that
country when he was head of international banking.  ‘Opportunistic’ Acquisitions  “We got outbid on two and a third we just wouldn’t
touch,” Waugh said. “Now, of course, the banks have become
very, very big, so I don’t see us making a retail acquisition in
Brazil because we’re not going to bet the bank on one country,
no matter if it’s a good country or not.”  Scotiabank will focus on increasing profit from its
existing operations rather than through  takeovers , Waugh said,
though the bank is keeping the door open for “opportunistic”
acquisitions.  “Our focus is to do it without acquisitions, but if we’ve
got the capital, the people and the resources, and the
experience, if something comes up we’ll certainly take a look at
it,” Waugh said.  Some opportunistic deals haven’t worked out for the
Canadian lender in the past. Scotiabank withdrew its bid to buy
a 20 percent stake in  China ’s Bank of Guangzhou in July after
its Chinese partners re-evaluated the proposed partnership -- an
outcome Waugh called “disappointing.”  Retirement Plans  “Despite the size of the country we’re still taking a
measured approach,” Waugh said of China, noting that the firm
did succeed in partnering with Bank of Beijing for wealth
management in the country.  Waugh said a full-service bank with retail in Southeast
Asia “would be attractive.” Scotiabank is “well on that
road” in Thailand, he added, referring to the lender’s stake in
Bangkok-based Thanachart Bank.  Waugh said he plans to be active with his not-for-profit
family foundation and invest through his own private advisory
company after retiring. He offered his successor one piece of
advice.  “Because I’ve taken so much equity over 20 years, I’m
going to be a shareholder for a long, long time,” Waugh said.
“The only thing I tell Brian is to keep the dividend coming,
and he will.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  