-- Shell Offers Forties Crude; Nigeria Qua Iboe Exports to Increase
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-10-24T16:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/shell-offers-forties-crude-nigeria-qua-iboe-exports-to-increase.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Trafigura
Beheer BV and  Statoil ASA (STL)  failed to sell  North Sea  Forties crude
at lower prices than yesterday. No bids or offers were made for
Russian Urals blend for a fourth day.  Nigerian Qua Iboe crude exports will increase in December.
Asian refiners raised purchases of West African grades for
loading in November to the most in 21 months as  China  increased
stockpiles to meet peak winter demand.  North Sea  Shell failed to sell Forties for loading Nov. 5 to Nov. 7
at 35 cents a barrel less than Dated Brent, compared with its
offer of a discount of 25 cents yesterday, a Bloomberg survey of
traders and brokers monitoring the Platts pricing window showed.
This cargo was deferred by two days, said two people with
knowledge of loading program.  Statoil was unable sell the grade for Nov. 6 to Nov. 8 at
minus 70 cents, compared with a discount of 30 cents yesterday,
according to the survey.  Trafigura didn’t manage to sell Forties for Nov. 15 to Nov.
17 at 65 cents more than Dated Brent, down from a premium of 75
cents yesterday, the survey showed.  Brent for December settlement traded at $107.37 a barrel on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $108.45 from the previous session. The January
contract was at $106.93, a discount of 44 cents to December.  ST Shipping, Glencore Xstrata Plc’s freight unit, booked
the very large crude carrier Manah to load Nov. 22 from Hound
Point,  Scotland , to  South Korea  at a cost of $5.7 million,
according to three reports from shipbrokers, including Optima
Shipbrokers. Hound Point is the terminal for Forties crude.  Should this booking be finalized, it will be the fourth
supertanker plying this route in two months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. An official at Glencore, who asked not to
be identified citing corporate policy, declined to comment.  Ekofisk cargo C11460 was deferred by five days to load on
Nov. 24 to Nov. 26, according to three people with knowledge of
the loading program. This is the third deferral for November
loading shipments.  Urals/Mediterranean  The Hariga oil terminal in eastern  Libya  may reopen by the
beginning of next week due to stepped up efforts, Khalifa Mazeg,
the port’s measurement inspector, said in a telephone interview
from the port. The port is one of four that is still closed.  OAO Transneft is considering a second oil pipeline to  Asia 
to counter a projected capacity deficit via the East Siberia-Pacific Ocean crude link.  “Today’s agenda includes the issue of building a second
ESPO,” Chief Executive Officer Nikolay Tokarev told journalists
in Komsomolsk-on-Amur in  Russia ’s Far East. “I mean one with
the same capacity” as the existing line, he said.  The $22.3 billion ESPO pipeline, Russia’s most expensive
infrastructure project, has helped domestic companies pivot to
energy-hungry Asian markets from Europe, where demand is
stagnant. OAO Rosneft signed this week a preliminary agreement
to sell 200,000 barrels a day of crude to China Petrochemical
Corp. for 10 years from 2014. This is in addition to a 25-year,
$270-billion supply deal it struck in June with China National
Petroleum Co.  West Africa  Trafigura failed to sell 950,000 barrels of Qua Iboe for
Nov. 15 to Dec. 15 loading at $2.50 a barrel more than Dated
Brent, the survey showed. This compares with a premium of $2.80
for its offer two days ago.  BP Plc (BP/)  was also offering Qua Iboe for December at the same
premium, while Vitol Group withdrew its bid for the grade at
$1.15 a barrel more than Dated Brent, according to the survey.  Refiners in Asia bought 61 cargoes totaling 1.92 million
barrels a day from  Angola ,  Nigeria , Republic of Congo,
 Equatorial Guinea , Gabon and Cameroon, according to a survey of
seven traders and an analysis of loading plans obtained by
Bloomberg. This is the highest since February 2012 and compares
with 1.7 million a day for this month. China alone bought 1.22
million barrels a day, up from 926,452 barrels in October.  Nigeria will export 12 cargoes of 950,000 barrels each of
Qua Iboe in December, one more than November, according to a
loading program obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Indian Oil Corp. bought one cargo each of Bonny Light and
Girassol grades from Shell via a second tender for December
loading crude, said three people who participate in the market,
asking not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  The refiner also bought one shipment each of Nigerian Bonga
and Yoho grades from Total SA, they said. All consignments are
of 1 million barrels each.  Taiwan’s CPC Corp. bought 1 million barrels each of Angolan
Cabinda, Palanca and  Ghana ’s Jubilee grades via a tender, said
three people involved in the region’s oil market.  The Taiwanese refiner bought Palanca from Sonangol Holdings
and Jubilee from Glencore, they said. The seller of Cabinda is
not known yet.  PT Pertamina,  Indonesia ’s state-owned oil company, re-issued its tender to buy crude for December, according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg News.  The Jakarta-based company is seeking 950,000 barrels of
crude for Dec. 2 to Dec. 5 delivery to its Balikpapan refinery,
the document shows. Offers, due by 3 p.m. Singapore time on Oct.
25, are to stay valid until 6 p.m. on Oct. 28.  Benin is set to resume crude output after South Atlantic
Petroleum Ltd., a closely held Nigerian oil company, said it
will start pumping the fuel from the country’s Seme fields
offshore.  The company, known as Sapetro, will pump 7,500 barrels a
day from Seme’s block 1 for 14 years, Executive Vice Chairman
Daisy Danjuma said on state-owned television. The country and
the company have yet to finalize how output will be shared.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  