-- OCBC Said to Weigh Wing Hang Bank Bid to Grow in Hong Kong
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-10-24T08:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/singapore-s-oversea-chinese-said-to-consider-bid-for-wing-hang.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) ,
Southeast Asia’s second-largest lender, is considering a bid for
 Wing Hang (302)  Bank Ltd., said people familiar with the matter.  OCBC has been studying an offer for the Hong Kong-based
bank for more than two weeks, one of the people said, asking not
to be named as the information is private. Wing Hang rose 2.5
percent in Hong Kong today, giving it a market value of HK$36
billion ($4.6 billion).  Two of Hong Kong’s four remaining family-owned banks,
squeezed by competition from larger lenders like  HSBC Holdings
Plc (5) , are in talks with potential acquirers seeking to profit
from  China ’s efforts to increase global use of the  yuan . Chong
Hing Bank Ltd. shares were suspended from trading today, after
 Bloomberg News  reported Yue Xiu Group was nearing an agreement
to buy the lender.  “I suppose the reason why they would be doing it is as a
gateway into China,”  Matthew Smith , an analyst at Macquarie
Capital Securities  Singapore  Pte, said of OCBC. Chief Executive
Officer Samuel Tsien “is pretty keen on the market there.”  Wing Hang said Oct. 16 its shareholders remain in talks
with unidentified third parties and it hasn’t agreed on
definitive terms. The stock trades at 1.76 times book value
after this year’s 45 percent rally, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The shares rose the most since Sept. 19 today.  Chairman Patrick Fung’s family, its affiliates and Bank of
 New York  Mellon Corp. together hold about 45 percent of the
shares. A spokeswoman for OCBC declined to comment. Cherry Yung,
a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Wing Hang, didn’t immediately
reply to a call and an e-mail.  Trailing DBS  United Overseas Bank Ltd., OCBC’s smaller Singaporean
competitor, made an initial offer for Wing Hang, though the
companies aren’t currently in talks, people with knowledge of
the matter said. A spokeswoman for UOB declined to comment.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. is considering a bid for
Wing Hang, Reuters reported yesterday, citing unidentified
people. The Chinese lender doesn’t have overseas acquisition
plans, it said in a statement today.  Dah Sing Banking Group Ltd. (2356) , another family-owned  Hong Kong 
bank, jumped  10 percent  today to a five-year high on takeover
speculation. Bank of East Asia Ltd., controlled by the family of
Chairman David Li, fell 0.1 percent.  OCBC had a Tier 1 ratio of 14.9 percent as at the end of
the second quarter, more than double the regulatory minimum of 6
percent prescribed by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, and
S$13.8 billion (11.2 billion) of cash and equivalents. Wing
Hang’s Tier 1 ratio was 10.8 percent as of June 30.  Ningbo Deal  Greater China  is among markets where OCBC plans to expand,
along with Malaysia and Indonesia, according to its website. The
bank last month opened its China headquarters in Shanghai’s
Pudong business district.  The Singaporean lender bought a stake in Bank of Ningbo
Co., based in the eastern Chinese port city, in 2009. The
following year, it completed an acquisition of ING Groep NV’s
Asian private banking business for $1.45 billion.  Still, its overseas expansion has trailed Singaporean
rivals DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and UOB. It earned 29 percent of
pretax income  outside Singapore  last year, compared with 34.3
percent for DBS and 32.8 percent for UOB, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  In August, DBS ended a bid to buy PT Bank Danamon Indonesia
for $6.5 billion, which would have been  Southeast Asia ’s
largest-ever banking takeover, after failing to win regulatory
approval for a majority stake.  DBS purchased Hong Kong’s Dao Heng Bank Group Ltd. for $5.4
billion in 2001, valuing it at 3.33 times book value. Some
analysts at the time criticized DBS for overpaying. Nine years
after the acquisition, the bank booked a goodwill impairment
loss of S$1.02 billion at its Hong Kong unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  