-- Singapore Air, Tata Win Approval to Start India Airline
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-10-24T08:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/singapore-air-tata-win-approval-to-start-india-airline.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , Southeast
Asia’s biggest carrier, won initial approval from the Indian
government to start an airline in the world’s second-most
populous country with its partner Tata Group.  India’s Foreign Investment Promotion Board approved the
proposal, Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said in  New
Delhi  today. Tata will hold 51 percent and Singapore Air the
remainder of the venture, which still needs to procure an
airline license.  Entering India will enable Singapore Air to get a foothold
in a market where the number of air passengers is forecast to
triple to 452 million by 2020. Asia’s third-largest economy last
year permitted foreign airlines to buy stakes in local carriers,
a move that brought in investments from Malaysia’s  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) 
and Abu Dhabi’s Etihad Airways PJSC.  Singapore Air said it’s yet to be informed of the decision
by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board. The carrier is “very
pleased with the reports of approval,” spokesman  Nicholas Ionides  said in an e-mail.  The venture will have four directors from Tata and two from
Singapore Air, a government official told reporters in New
Delhi, asking not to be identified citing rules. The airline
would be based in the Indian capital city and its chairman would
be from the Mumbai-based Tata group.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government changed laws
last year to allow foreign airlines to buy as much as 49 percent
in local companies, reversing a decade-old ban that had kept out
carriers like Singapore Air from the Indian market. AirAsia, the
region’s biggest budget carrier, also chose Tata, owner of the
Jaguar Land Rover marque, for its venture in India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  