-- Soccer Player Stuck in Qatar Says He Must Give Up Pay to Leave
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-10-24T10:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/soccer-player-stuck-in-qatar-says-he-must-give-up-pay-to-leave.html
Zahir Belounis, a French soccer
professional who said he’s trapped in  Qatar , may be heading home
by next week. He isn’t happy.  The 33-year-old midfielder, who first came to the country
in 2007 to play for the Doha-based Military Sports Association,
said his team denied him an exit visa after he filed a case in
local court in February this year for unpaid wages. This week,
he said, he was offered an exit visa if he signs a document that
retroactively terminates him on Feb. 1.  While Belounis said he hasn’t decided if he will sign,
agreeing to the terms will probably prevent him from collecting
his final two years of salary under the five-year contract he
signed with the Military Sports Association in 2010, he said.  “I don’t have choice,” he said in a phone interview
today. “If I want my exit, I have to sign this retroactive
termination contract.”  Qatar has faced scrutiny over its treatment of foreign
workers since winning the right to host the 2022  World Cup  three
years ago. The  U.K.’s Guardian reported  Sept. 25 that 44
Nepalese workers died between June 4 and Aug. 8. Qatar said Oct.
3, through the state-run Qatar News Agency, that it hired the
law firm DLA Piper to investigate the allegations.  Workers’ rights were discussed earlier this month at a
meeting of FIFA’s top officials, during which the group
postponed a decision on whether to move the dates of the 2022
tournament amid concern over the emirate’s summer temperatures,
which can reach 50 degrees Celsius (122 Fahrenheit).  Population  Foreigners make up about 80 percent of Qatar’s population
of 2 million. Under the country’s sponsorship system, most must
obtain their employer’s permission any time they want to leave
the country. Belounis, who hasn’t left Qatar since May 2012,
said his employer won’t approve an exit visa unless he agrees to
their terms.  “I did nothing wrong,” he said in an interview from his
Doha home earlier this month. “I have a contract. The club
didn’t pay me. I asked for my rights from the court.”  The intervention of the French embassy and even French
President  Francois Hollande , who visited Qatar in June and met
with the then Emir Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani, failed to
secure his freedom, he said. The French embassy didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment.  Belounis left  Switzerland ’s FC La Tour/Le Paquier and came
to Qatar in 2007 to play for the division-two Military Sports
Association, he said. In 2010, he signed a five-year contract
with the club and played for the 2010-11 season. The team was
then promoted to division one and became a separate club called
 Eljaish Sports Club .  Transferred  Rather than play for Eljaish, Belounis said he was
transferred to the division-two Al-Markhiya Sports Club and he
stopped receiving the salary he was promised in his contract.  Last February, he filed a case in the local court. He is
seeking damages plus four unpaid years of his five-year salary,
which Belounis didn’t disclose. The contract, which he showed
 Bloomberg News , gave the team the option to terminate him after
three years with sixty days advanced notice, which Belounis said
he didn’t receive.  While he said he will continue his court case even if he is
allowed to leave, he thinks agreeing to a retroactive
termination will prevent him from collecting two years worth of
salary.  His case became tied up over whether his contract is with
the Military Sports Association or the new Eljaish club, he
said. Both clubs declined to comment on Belounis. A call to the
office of Qatar’s Deputy Prime Minister Ahmed bin Abdullah Al-Mahmoud wasn’t answered.  Spending Plan  Qatar is the richest country in the world per capita,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . Its offshore
waters hold the world’s third-largest natural gas reserves. The
country plans to spend $200 billion before hosting the world’s
most-watched sporting event on new stadiums, a rail and metro
system, a port, roads and a city for 200,000 people.  Belounis said Qatar deserves the World Cup “but there are
a few things you need to resolve,” he said. “This system kills
the family, killed a lot of families.”  Belounis, who is of Algerian decent, was brought up in
Paris and used to play for FC Saint-Lo Manche in Normandy. He
now lives in the house provided him by his employer with his
wife and two children. He is no longer being paid and said his
savings are dwindling. He spends his days driving his children
to and from school and he no longer exercises to keep in shape.
His soccer career is over, he said.  “I stopped my career,” he said. “I did nothing wrong.”  He recently sold his furniture and now says he is
“camping” on the floor of his house waiting to leave. The
ordeal has strained his family life and caused stress for his
wife and children, he said.  “Maybe I will sign,” he said, in reference to the
termination offer. “I have to take care of my family. They know
I don’t have choice. I hope the government will understand this.
It’s not fair at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  