-- South African Corn Futures Extend Streaks on Drought Concern
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-10-24T12:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/south-african-corn-futures-extend-streaks-on-drought-concern.html
Corn futures traded in South Africa
extended streaks of advances on concern rain is too light to
relieve a drought in North West province, one of the nation’s
main growing regions for the grain.  Yellow corn for delivery in December rose 1.5 percent to
2,254 rand ($231) a metric ton by the close on the South African
Futures Exchange in Johannesburg. That was the ninth straight
advance, the longest run since June 2008, and the highest
settlement since July 12 for a most-active contract, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  North West province, where a drought was declared last
month, grew about 16 percent of South Africa’s corn in the seven
months through September, according to data on the website of
the South African Grain Information Service. The government’s
Crop Estimates Committee will announce intended summer grain
plantings today at 3:30 p.m. local time.  “There is concern of what the committee will reveal,
especially since the North West province has been declared
drought-stricken,” Benjamin Swanepoel, a trader at Trademar
Futures (Pty) Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg. “The rain
they have been receiving is not widespread enough.”  White corn for delivery in December increased 0.4 percent
to 2,400 rand a ton. That was a seventh gain in a row and the
highest close since Aug. 27 for a most-active contract.  No rain was predicted today for the town of Lichtenburg in
North West province, according to the  South African Weather
Service’s  website. Farmers will probably plant corn on 2.75
million hectares (6.8 million acres) this season, according to
the median estimate of five traders in a Bloomberg survey.  South Africa is the continent’s biggest corn producer. A
meal made from the white variety is a staple food in the nation
and yellow corn is mostly fed to animals.  Wheat for delivery in December fell 0.1 percent to 3,495
rand a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  