-- Spate of Iran Executions After Rouhani Election Alarms UN
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-10-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/spate-of-iran-executions-after-rouhani-election-alarms-un.html
Iran ’s government executed at least
82 people in the weeks after Hassan Rouhani was elected as
president in June, according to a United Nations investigator.  Ahmed Shaheed, the UN special rapporteur on human rights in
Iran, said in a  report  presented to the General Assembly
yesterday that he’s “alarmed by the spate of executions,” 38
of which were officially announced during the same period that
“at least 44 others reportedly took place.”  Rouhani, who took office Aug. 4, has pardoned political
prisoners in a bid to promote a thaw with global powers over the
Islamic republic’s disputed nuclear program. International talks
on the country’s nuclear initiatives were held last week in
Geneva, as Rouhani’s government seeks relief from sanctions that
have battered its economy.  While Shaheed acknowledged the Rouhani administration’s
recent overtures “designed to reduce tensions” and “reset”
international sanctions, and welcomed the release of female
rights activist Nasrin Sotoudeh, he told the General Assembly in
a separate address yesterday that he hasn’t seen signs of
fundamental improvements to Iran’s human rights situation.  The Iranian mission to the UN criticized Shaheed’s report
and comments as a “non-objective and counter-productive
exercise initiated by a group of countries with specific
political claim against Iran,” according to remarks prepared
for yesterday’s General Assembly meeting on the report.  Obama Call  Rouhani freed dozens of political prisoners and student
activists days before his attendance at the annual September
meeting of world leaders at the UN headquarters in  New York . His
outreach during the week-long event led to a phone call on Sept.
27 with U.S. President  Barack Obama , a break in more than three
decades of silence between leaders of the two countries.  About 724 executions took place between January 2012 and
June 2013 and at least 500 human rights defenders remain behind
bars, according to Shaheed’s report. About 600 journalists are
defined as operatives of an “anti-state” network, and women
still experience discrimination, with all 30 registered female
candidates seeking to run against Rouhani in the June election
getting disqualified, he said in the report.  Iran is calling on the U.S. and European Union to ease
sanctions that have led to a drop in exports and a slide in its
currency’s value. The U.S. and other Western powers are
demanding curbs on Iran’s nuclear work, which they say may be a
cover for a weapons program. Iran says it has a right to enrich
uranium and is interested only in using nuclear technology for
peaceful, civilian purposes.  Shaheed, who wasn’t allowed to enter Iran to conduct his
inquiry, cited press reports that financial-sector sanctions
against Iran were blocking delivery of food, medical supplies
and medicines. He urged Iran’s government to let him visit the
country to more accurately probe the state of human rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  United Nations  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  