-- Starwood Third-Quarter Earnings Fall as Sales of Hotels Slow
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-10-24T12:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/starwood-hotels-third-quarter-earnings-fall-as-gains-unrepeated.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , owner of the Sheraton and W brands, said third-quarter
earnings fell as gains from the sale of two hotels last year
weren’t repeated.  Net income declined to $157 million, or 81 cents a share,
from $170 million, or 87 cents, a year earlier, the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based company said today in a statement. The average
 estimate  of 14 analysts was 63 cents a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Real estate divestments have slowed at Starwood, which in
the third quarter of last year sold W hotels in  Chicago  and Los
Angeles and had $12 million of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization from condo sales at Miami Beach’s
Bal Harbour Resort, which opened in January 2012.  “Last year they primarily benefited from hotel sales as
well as condo sales in  Florida ,”  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. in New York, said before
earnings were announced. “Bal Harbour is nearly sold out and
you don’t have as much income from that anymore.”  Revenue climbed 3.6 percent to $1.51 billion from $1.46
billion a year ago, Starwood said. Revenue per available room,
an industry measure of occupancy and rates, rose 4.7 percent
worldwide and 5.8 percent in  North America  adjusted for currency
movements.  Better Outlook  Including Bal Harbour, 2013 adjusted earnings per share
before special items will probably be $2.93 to $2.95, Starwood
said. The company in July had forecast $2.81 to $2.88.  “We remain bullish on the long-term trends of rising wealth
and increasing demand for travel in fast-growing economies, even
in the face of slower growth in China, unrest in the Middle East
and economic challenges in Latin America,” Chief Executive
Officer Frits van Paasschen said in the statement.  Less than 40 percent of Starwood’s earnings are from the
U.S., according to Nikhil Bhalla, an analyst at  FBR & Co. (FBRC)  in
Arlington, Virginia.  “Outside the U.S., their hotels did OK,” Bhalla said
before earnings were released. “Europe held up OK. The
expectations for Europe were low because of the  Olympic Games 
last year.”  Asset sales so far this year will reduce 2014 earnings by
$12 million from the previous year, Starwood said. The company
said it sold a non-core asset in the third quarter and entered
an agreement to sell two hotels in a deal it expects to complete
in the fourth quarter.  Excluding special items, income from continuing operations
climbed to $137 million in the third quarter from $114 million a
year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  