-- Structured Note Value Disclosures to Start in Germany Next Year
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-10-24T08:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/structured-note-value-disclosures-to-start-in-germany-next-year.html
The largest issuers of structured
notes in  Germany  will start disclosing the fees they’re charging
investors for the products next year, as regulators press for
greater transparency in the market.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG are among
the 17 member banks of the  German Derivatives Association  that
have agreed to publish the estimates, according to Christian
Vollmuth, managing director at the association in Berlin. Note
values are generally lower than the issue price because of
underwriting fees, hedging costs and other expenses to create
and market the securities.  Banks in  Europe  are expecting more disclosure requirements
for structured notes after the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission asked issuers to divulge the initial value of their
securities, and European authorities said they are considering
similar measures. The notes offer customized bets to investors
and have been scrutinized for being opaque and complex by
regulators from the U.K. to  Mexico .  “The financial crisis has left our industry with some
undeserved stains on its reputation and that has driven us to
self-regulate,” said Vollmuth.  The disclosure requirement takes effect on May 1, according
to a statement the association released yesterday. Members must
publish estimates of note values at the time of pricing as
either a percentage or an outright amount in the issuance
currency, according to Vollmuth. Banks should also recommend
that brokers or third parties selling the notes to individual
investors disclose the figures in their product information
sheets, he said.  Reverse convertibles  More than 95 percent of Germany’s structured products
market, Europe’s second largest, will be affected, Vollmuth
estimated, including capital-protected and credit-linked notes
as well as reverse convertibles.  “We are committed to showing our industry is making every
effort to have transparent products and structures,” said Dirk Hess, co-head of sales and distribution of warrants and
certificates in Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  at Citigroup
Inc. in  Frankfurt .  The European Securities and Markets Authority is discussing
whether note sellers should be forced to publish their intrinsic
value calculations. Paris-based ESMA said in July some investors
don’t have sufficient knowledge to understand what a note is
worth and how much they are paying in fees.  Banks in the U.S., including Goldman Sachs and Bank of
America Corp., now disclose values for most of the SEC-registered structured notes they sell, after the agency
requested in April 2012 that they begin doing so.  Buyers of structured notes, which include institutional
investors as well as high-net-worth individuals, bear the risk
both of the bank selling the securities and of the underlying
assets. Fees that issuers may disclose in marketing materials
typically form only part of that total expense to investors as
other costs and profits are embedded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  