-- Stryker to Pay $13.2 Million Over Overseas Bribes Claims
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r
-- 2013-10-24T16:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/stryker-to-pay-13-2-million-over-overseas-bribes-claims.html
Stryker Corp. (SYK) , the second-largest
seller of orthopedic devices, will pay more than $13.2 million
to settle U.S. regulatory claims that subsidiaries paid bribes
in five countries to gain or retain business.  Subsidiaries of Stryker in Argentina,  Greece , Mexico,
Poland and Romania made a total of $2.2 million of “illicit
payments” as far back as 2003 that were booked as legitimate
expenses, the Securities and Exchange Commission said today in a
statement announcing settlement of its administrative case.  “Stryker’s misconduct involved hundreds of improper
payments over a number of years during which the company’s
internal controls were fatally flawed,” Andrew M. Calamari,
director of the SEC’s New York office, said in the statement.  The company’s actions, which the SEC said violated the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, included a Greek subsidiary’s
$200,000 payment to a doctor that was disguised as a donation to
a local university, according to the statement. Stryker was also
accused of paying travel expenses of foreign officials for trips
that lacked any legitimate business purpose, the SEC said.  Stryker, which reaped $7.5 million in illicit profits, will
pay about that amount in disgorgement, plus $2.28 million in
interest and a $3.5 million fine, the SEC said. The Kalamazoo,
Michigan-based company resolved the agency’s claims without
admitting or denying wrongdoing.  Matthew Kipp, an attorney for Stryker at Skadden Arps Slate
Meagher & Flom LLP in  Chicago , didn’t immediately return a
telephone call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keri Geiger in  New York  at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  