-- Sun Life Sees China Insurance Venture Turning Profitable in 2015
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-24T01:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/sun-life-sees-china-insurance-venture-turning-profitable-in-2015.html
Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) ,  Canada ’s
third-largest insurer, expects to become profitable in the
Chinese market in 2015, ending more than a decade of losses
after obtaining status to do business as a local insurer.  The insurance company seeks to raise net income
contribution from Asia to 12 percent in 2015 through organic
growth, up from 8.3 percent last year, Chief Executive Officer
Dean Connor said. The Toronto-based firm would require
acquisitions in the region to bring that level to the 15 percent
to 20 percent range that would be high enough to matter to
investors, he said.  Sun Life is seeking to expand in higher-growth regions,
including in China, the world’s fourth-largest insurance market,
while it exits some U.S. businesses such as variable annuities
and individual life insurance. Profits from  China  would help the
insurer meet net-income targets that Connor said were
“ambitious” without acquisitions.  “Now the challenge is to take the benefit of that scale
and make the business profitable,” Connor said in an Oct. 18
interview in Beijing. “We’re targeting to break even next year,
and then profit should come after that.”  Premium income at Sun Life Everbright Life Insurance Co.
jumped after Sun Life cut its stake in the joint venture set up
in 2002 with state-controlled China Everbright Group Ltd. The
Canadian company cut its stake to just below 25 percent in 2010,
giving it the legal status of a Chinese insurer and allowing it
to open branches across the country at a faster pace.  Sun Life in August revised its net income target for 2015
to C$1.85 billion ($1.8 billion) from C$2 billion, after the
sale of its U.S. annuities unit to Guggenheim Partners LLC
shareholders for C$1.35 billion as it seeks to cut risk.  ‘Ambitious’ Target  “To achieve that organically is ambitious, but
achievable,” Connor said. “We’re also out, looking at
potential acquisitions, but the nice thing is we don’t need an
acquisition to achieve our aspirations.”  Sun Life announced a deal in January with Khazanah Nasional
Bhd to buy 98 percent of  Aviva Plc (AV/) ’s and  CIMB Group Holdings
Bhd (CIMB) ’s Malaysian insurance joint venture for 1.8 billion
Malaysian ringgit ($571 million). Such deals won’t be limited to
Asia if the company can find “suitable acquisitions that make
sense” in its other major business areas such as asset
management and U.S. group insurance, Connor said without naming
any potential targets.  Premium income at  Sun Life Everbright  in 2010 exceeded the
venture’s combined sales in the previous seven years, the
company said. The status as a local insurer also helped the
joint venture win regulatory permission to set up an asset-management unit, which is already contributing to its profit
after becoming operational last year, Connor said.  Unequal Treatment  Foreign insurers struggled to expand their market share in
China, due to barriers including a joint-venture requirement on
life insurance and unequal treatment in branch approvals,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a report in September 2010
that surveyed 31 foreign companies including Sun Life
Everbright.  Overseas insurers accounted for 5.1 percent of China’s life
insurance market by premiums in the first eight months of this
year, up from 4.8 percent in 2012, according to  China Insurance
Regulatory Commission  data.  Profitability in China will mainly be from a better product
mix, expense management and a higher percentage of regular-premium policies, as the company takes a “more selective”
approach to growth, Connor said, adding that premium growth will
decline this year because of the strategy.  Premiums for Sun Life Everbright slid by 21 percent to 2.3
billion  yuan  in the first eight months of this year, compared
with 4 billion yuan for the whole of 2012, CIRC data showed.  “We’re very pleased with the progress towards break-even,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  