-- Sweden’s Riksbank Keeps Main Rate at 1% to Support Recovery
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-10-24T09:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/sweden-s-riksbank-keeps-main-rate-at-1-to-support-recovery.html
Sweden ’s central bank left its  main
lending rate  unchanged and signaled it may keep rates on hold
longer than previously assessed as it attempts to support a
recovery without fueling a housing bubble.  The Riksbank voted four-to-two to hold its repurchasing
rate at 1 percent for a fifth meeting this year, the Stockholm-based bank said in a statement today. The move was predicted by
all 17 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . The bank said it sees
its main rate at 1.15 percent in the fourth quarter next year,
versus 1.25 percent in September.  “The repo rate needs to remain at this low level until
economic activity is stronger and inflation rises,” the bank
said. “As before, the repo rate is not expected to be raised
until the end of 2014.”  The bank lowered its forecasts for  economic growth  and
inflation this year as the largest Nordic economy struggles to
overcome slack demand from the euro area. The bank predicts
 consumer prices  will stay unchanged this year and rise 1.2
percent in 2014 compared with a forecast in September of 0.1
percent and 1.3 percent, respectively. It cut its growth
forecast to 0.7 percent for 2013 from 1.2 percent and 2.6
percent in 2014 from 2.7 percent previously.  The Swedish krona strengthened 0.2 percent to 8.7660 per
euro as of 10:08 a.m. in Stockholm.  “The market had largely factored in” the delayed rate
increase forecast, said Carl Hammer, a currency strategist at
SEB in Stockholm.  Monitoring Debt  Sweden’s  export -reliant economy is growing faster than much
of the rest of Europe as the AAA-rated government in  Stockholm 
uses its budget to help support demand. Prime Minister Fredrik
Reinfeldt has promised a fifth round of income tax cuts since
his administration took office in 2006, as he predicts
accelerating economic growth next year.  Unemployment has been lower than the Riksbank’s forecasts
and manufacturing has picked up since the September meeting.
Lending to consumers has also continued to gather speed,
prompting concerns a housing bubble may be building after Swedes
took on record debt burdens to finance their property purchases.  ‘Right Thing’  “It’s the right thing to do to keep rates unchanged since
warning lights are blinking red on the  housing market ” and the
Swedish economy will gradually recover, said Knut Hallberg, an
analyst at Swedbank AB. Swedbank forecasts the next rate
increase in September.  Lending to Swedish households  grew the most in more than a
year in August. Household debt has almost doubled over the past
20 years to more than 170 percent of disposable incomes, central
bank data show. Apartment prices have risen more than twofold
since 2000.  Sweden in August chose the Financial Supervisory Authority
over the Riksbank as responsible for tools to safeguard
financial stability. The country will force banks to keep more
capital on top of some of the world’s highest requirements from
July next year. Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves wants to raise
risk weights to 35 percent even after the financial watchdog
tripled them to 15 percent this year.  “Once measures have been taken in the field of
macroprudential policy, the risks linked to household debt can
be assumed to decline,” the Riksbank said. “This will have an
impact on the conditions for monetary policy, but it is
difficult to determine as yet how much and how quickly.”  Two of the Riksbank’s six-member board, deputy governors
Karolina Ekholm and Martin Floden, voted for a cut to 0.75
percent and argued the rate should stay at that level through
the third quarter next year.  The krona has weakened about 0.9 percent since the
Riksbank’s September meeting, helping the bank reach its
 inflation  target of 2 percent and supporting exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  