-- U.K. Stocks Climb, Rebounding From First Drop in 10 Days
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-10-24T16:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/u-k-stocks-climb-rebounding-from-first-drop-in-10-days.html
U.K. stocks  advanced to the highest
level since May, with the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index rebounding from its
first drop in 10 days, as Chinese manufacturing strengthened
more than forecast.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  climbed 5.8 percent after
saying it is in talks to buy Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership and form a partnership with Lloyds Banking Group
Plc.  Shire Plc (SHP)  jumped to a record after the drugmaker raised an
earnings forecast.  Sports Direct International Plc (SPD)  lost 3.8
percent after founder Mike Ashley sold a part of his stake.  The FTSE 100 gained 38.7 points, or 0.6 percent, to
6,713.18 at the close. The gauge gained 5.6 percent in the nine
days through Oct. 22 as companies from BHP Billiton Ltd. to
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc posted results that beat
estimates and investors bet the Federal Reserve will maintain
stimulus. The broader  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  rose 0.5 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 0.4 percent.  “The trend of an accelerating Chinese economy that we’ve
had for some months may stay,” Karim Bertoni, who helps manage
$3.3 billion at De Pury Pictet Turrettini & Cie. SA in Geneva,
said in a telephone interview. “This is good for the global
economy and good for the stock market. You have had a strong
rebound in markets. Trading will be shaky as we are not very far
from a short-term overbought territory.”  The FTSE 100 trades at a relative strength index of 68,
below the 70 level that is considered “overbought,” or a point
where stocks may begin a decline in the absence of other
supporting indicators, according to some technical analysts.  China Manufacturing  In  China , the preliminary 50.9 reading this month for a
purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics exceeded the 50.4 median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  Aberdeen Asset Management,  Scotland ’s largest fund manager,
advanced 5.8 percent to 450.4 pence. The company said it’s in
talks with Lloyds about a possible acquisition of the lender’s
Scottish Widows unit and the formation of a “strategic
partnership.”  “If agreed, the acquisition would be funded through the
issuance of new shares in the company to Lloyds and additional
deferred payments in cash,” Aberdeen said in a statement.  Shire soared 9.3 percent to 2,760 pence, its highest price
since it sold shares to the public in 1996. The company reported
third-quarter earnings of $1.77 per U.S. depositary share,
compared with an estimated $1.67 in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts. The company also raised its 2013 earnings-growth
prediction to “mid-to-high teens” percentage points.  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR)  surged 9.1 percent to 326.7 pence, for its
biggest increase since March 5. The oil and gas explorer in
 Africa  said it began talks to sell assets in Tanzania.  Founder’s Stake  Sports Direct lost 3.8 percent to 685 pence, leading
declining shares in the FTSE 100. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
managed the sale of a 2.7 percent stake in the U.K.’s largest
sports retailer on behalf of Sports Direct’s Deputy Executive
Chairman Ashley, at 662.5 pence per share. The price marked a 7
percent discount to yesterday’s close.  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest distiller, slid 0.8 percent
to 2,012.5 pence, its first retreat in seven days. French rival
Pernod Ricard SA today said a slowdown in  emerging markets  will
stifle profit growth.  Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the U.K.’s second-largest department-store
chain, fell 8.8 percent to 101 pence. The company reported full-year earnings that were in line with analysts’ estimates, and
said costs will increase with inflation. Debenhams also said it
remains cautious on the strength of consumer demand.   Spirent Communications Plc (SPT)  dropped 4.3 percent to 118.2
pence. The company, which provides telecommunication-testing
systems, said delays imposed by customers will reduce fourth-quarter sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  