-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Fall to a Four-Month Low
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-10-24T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/u-s-mortgage-rates-fall-to-a-four-month-low.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  fell to a four-month low after a weaker-than-expected jobs report drove
investors to the safety of the  government bonds  that guide
borrowing costs.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to
4.13 percent the week ended today from 4.28 percent,  Freddie Mac 
said in a statement. The average 15-year rate declined to 3.24
percent, from 3.33 percent.  Mortgage rates have retreated from a two-year high in
August after the  Federal Reserve  signaled it needed more signs
of lasting improvement in the economy before scaling back a
stimulus plan aimed at lowering borrowing costs.  Yields (USGG10YR)  for 10-year Treasuries, a benchmark for home loans, dropped to a three-month low this week following a report that showed U.S. payrolls
increased in September by less than economists projected.  “The weak economy is helping to keep mortgage rates from
rising,”  said  Keith Gumbinger , vice president of HSH.com, a
Riverdale, New Jersey-based mortgage-data firm.  Purchases of U.S. existing homes dropped 1.9 percent in
September from an almost four-year high as rising prices and
mortgage rates discouraged would-be buyers, the National
Association of Realtors reported this week. Home affordability
was at an almost five-year low, with the  median price  up 11.7
percent from a year earlier.  Buyer competition for a limited  supply  of homes has been
fueling price gains. U.S. house prices rose 0.3 percent in
August from July, the smallest increase in 11 months, as more
homeowners listed their properties for sale, according to
Federal Housing Finance Agency data released yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  