-- U.S. Recommends Tighter Control on Hydrocodone Pain Pills
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/u-s-recommends-tighter-control-on-hydrocodone-pain-pills.html
Vicodin and other hydrocodone-based
painkillers, the most popular pharmacy drugs in the U.S., would
be placed under stricter prescribing limits to curb abuse, in a
policy reversal by the  Food and Drug Administration .  The FDA agreed to recommend by early December reclassifying
the pills as a Schedule II substance,  Janet Woodcock , director
of the agency’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in
a  statement . Hydrocodone combinations, are currently Schedule
III, the third-highest level on a five-stage scale that takes
into account the potential for addiction.  About 131 million hydrocodone products were dispensed in
2011, more than double the number for oxycodone pills, which
have greater restrictions, according to an FDA report released
in January. The Drug Enforcement Administration for about a
decade has been asking the FDA to recommend reclassifying the
products to Schedule II from III, including in 2004, a request
the FDA denied in 2008. The DEA resubmitted its request in 2009.  “While the value of and access to these drugs has been a
consistent source of public debate, the FDA has been challenged
with determining how to balance the need to ensure continued
access to those patients who rely on continuous pain relief
while addressing the ongoing concerns about abuse and misuse,”
Woodcock said yesterday.  The FDA said it anticipates the National Institute on Drug
Abuse will side with its recommendation, as will the DEA. A
phone call to the DEA for comment wasn’t returned.  ‘Unintended Consequences’  The restrictions may make it tougher for pain patients,
said Edward Michna, assistant professor at  Harvard Medical
School , and director of the Pain Trials Center at Brigham and
Women’s Hospital in Chestnut Hill,  Massachusetts . In some
states, nurse practitioners can’t write prescriptions for
Schedule II drugs and many doctors aren’t willing to prescribe
anything stronger than Schedule III, he said by telephone.  “So you have to consider the secondary,  unintended
consequences : patients who are legitimate users who may lose
access, or be restricted,” Michna said. “It’s all a balance.”  Hydrocodone combinations join the main ingredient with less
potent painkillers such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen. A panel
of FDA advisers in January called for tougher restrictions on
the drugs because of the potential for abuse. Lawmakers have
also called for the change.  Zogenix Pill  “Each day that passes means rising abuse, and even death,
at the hands of hydrocodone-based drugs,” U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer, a  New York  Democrat, said in a statement. “I’m very
pleased that the FDA has heeded my call and will tighten up
control of one of the most highly prescribed -- and abused --
drugs on the market.”  Schumer called on the FDA in January to tighten controls on
the drugs to “combat an unprecedented spike in prescription
drug abuse in New York state and the country,” according to his
statement.  The DEA had asked FDA to recommend the Schedule II
reclassification that would limit refills to a 90-day supply
instead of the current five refills within six months.  The decision may also level the playing field for  Zogenix
Inc. (ZGNX) , which is awaiting word from the FDA on whether the agency
will approve for sale the company’s pure hydrocodone painkiller
Zohydro. Pure hydrocodone products are already classified as
Schedule II, and the FDA recommendation would put some of the
same restrictions on Zogenix’s competition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  