-- Muddy Waters Risks Curbing IPO Demand: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-10-24T21:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/muddy-waters-risks-curbing-ipo-demand-china-overnight.html
Short seller Muddy Waters LLC’s call
to sell shares of Chinese mobile-security service provider  NQ
Mobile Inc. (NQ)  will hinder initial public offerings from the
country, Needham & Co. said.  Shares of NQ Mobile tumbled as much as 63 percent in New
York yesterday before trading was halted. The Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S.
climbed 0.5 percent to 103.26, led by  New Oriental Education &
Technology Group (EDU)  and Vipshop Holdings Ltd.  Muddy Waters, a research firm founded by short seller
 Carson Block , initiated coverage of NQ Mobile with a strong sell
rating, saying the company inflated sales. Block accused in 2011
Sino-Forest Corp. and Focus Media Holding Ltd. of inflating
their financial statements. Travel-booking website Qunar Cayman
Islands Ltd. and online marketplace 58.com Inc. plan to raise
funds in IPOs in the U.S. next week, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “This just kind of fans the flames again,” Rudy Balseiro,
the managing director of equity capital markets at Needham, said
by phone from New York yesterday. “Whether it’s true or not
doesn’t matter, it’s the perception that this is still going on.
It will strip out some of the guys who were getting comfortable
with the Chinese IPOs.”  The plunge yesterday cut NQ’s market value by $561 million,
after its American depositary receipts rallied 279 percent this
year through Oct. 23. The ADRs fell 47 percent to $12.09 in New
York before trading was suspended.  ‘Fictitious’ Revenue  “We believe it is a zero,” Block, wrote in an e-mailed
report on NQ Mobile yesterday. “At least 72 percent of NQ’s
purported 2012  China  security revenue is fictitious.” NQ’s
market share in China is about 1.5 percent, versus the
approximate 55 percent it reports, Block wrote. The company’s
China paying user base is less than 250,000, versus the six
million NQ claims.  NQ rejected the allegations, saying the company will
respond with more details before the open of the U.S. markets
today, according to a PRNewswire statement.  58.com, based in Beijing, seeks to sell 11 million ADRs for
a price between $13 and $15, it said in a filing Oct. 17. Qunar
plans to debut trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market Nov. 1.
500.com Ltd., a Chinese online sports-lottery operator, plans
for a $150 million IPO while Sungy Mobile Ltd., a Guangzhou-based provider of mobile applications, seeks to raise $80
million in a U.S. IPO, according to their filings this week.  Phoenix New Media Ltd. (FENG) , a TV and Internet news outlet,
tumbled 9 percent on a third day of declines to $11.08, sinking
the most in two weeks. Trading volume was 2.4 times the three-month daily average compiled by Bloomberg.  Margin Forecast  ADRs of New Oriental, China’s biggest private educational
company, soared 6.1 percent to $28.08, the highest price in four
months. At least seven analysts increased their  price estimates 
for New Oriental after it raised a margin forecast for its 2014
fiscal year while operating margin rose for the quarter ended in
August.  ADRs of  TAL Education Group (XRS)  advanced 2.1 percent to $18.43,
the highest level since its U.S. listing in October 2010. The
ADRs have jumped 16 percent in the past three days after the
tutoring service provider reporting better-than-estimated
earnings Oct. 22.  “Both educational service companies have sought-after
balanced growth with a focus on profit margin, and they will
continue to expand with stable or expanding margins,” Tian X. Hou, the founder of T. H. Capital LLC, which compiles research
on U.S.-traded Chinese companies, said in a telephone interview
from New York yesterday.  Vipshop, a web retailer of clothing based in  Guangzhou ,
advanced 5.6 percent to $73.30, rising the most since Oct. 11.  ETF Declines  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slumped 1.2 percent to $36.48
in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3 percent
as corporate earnings beat estimates and signs of slower
economic growth fueled bets the Federal Reserve will maintain
stimulus.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slipped 1.3 percent
to 10,322.12 yesterday, falling for a third day, while the
Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.9 percent to 2,164.32, the
lowest price since Sept. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  