-- Lukoil Said Close to Hiring Ex-BHP Executive for Diamonds
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-10-24T13:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/lukoil-said-close-to-hiring-ex-bhp-executive-for-diamonds.html
OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s largest non-state oil producer, is close to appointing  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s
former diamond marketing head to sell the precious stones from
its Grib mine, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Lukoil is set to name Martin Leake head of diamond sales,
the people said, asking not to be identified before an official
announcement. Moscow-based Lukoil will sell the gems in Antwerp
and seek to replicate BHP’s auction system, two of the people
said. Leake and a spokesman for Lukoil declined to comment.  Lukoil plans to start production at the Grib mine in the
Arkhangelsk region of Russia’s far north later this year and
will produce more than 4 million carats annually starting 2016.
The mine will be biggest to come into production in the world
since Rio Tinto Group’s Diavik project in  Canada  in 2003.  Leake was general manager for diamond marketing at
Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s biggest mining company. BHP
sold its Ekati diamond mine in Canada and its marketing
operations for the stones to Harry Winston Diamond Corp., now
 Dominion Diamond Corp. (DDC) , for $500 million last year, exiting the
business as it focused on other commodities with larger mines.  In 2008, Archangel Diamond Corp., or ADC, then controlled
by De Beers, agreed to pay $225 million for a 49.9 percent stake
in the Grib pipe project to end litigation over the field’s
ownership rights. De Beers walked away from the deal after
Russian authorities asked the company to polish diamonds in the
country as a condition for the transaction. Lukoil now owns 100
percent of the project, while ADC filed for bankruptcy.  OAO Alrosa, Russia’s state-controlled diamond monopoly and
the world’s biggest producer by volume, mined 34.4 million
carats last year.  De Beers , which typically produces stones that
fetch higher prices, had output of 27.9 million carats.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  