-- Unilever Sales Growth Slips Amid Price Cuts in U.S.
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-10-29T15:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/unilever-sales-growth-slips-as-p-g-slashes-prices-in-u-s-gambit.html
(Corrects story originally published Oct. 24 to show that
 Unilever (UNA)  CEO didn’t specifically cite P&G as cutting prices,
removes analyst from 10th paragraph.)  Unilever’s slowing sales growth
isn’t just down to faltering world economies. The company says
price cutting by competitors is also to blame in the U.S.  Unilever, the British-Dutch maker of Dove soap and Knorr
soup, came under “enormous competitive attacks” in categories
like shampoos, Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman said today
after reporting the weakest quarterly revenue increase in four
years.  Polman said the company “did not fully respond” to the
competitive onslaught, which accounted for about half of a 1.9
percent decline in North American underlying sales in the third
quarter, worse than the first-half’s 0.9 percent drop. That
strategy may need to change because Unilever will lean more on
the U.S. in the months ahead as emerging markets slow further.  “Unilever will have to respond to a higher level of
competitive intensity,” Jeff Stent, an analyst at Exane BNP
Paribas, said in a note. “The competitive activity in areas
like hair and deodorants has been enormous.”  Sharper pricing by competitors such as Cincinnati-based
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  is exemplified at U.S. drugstore chain  CVS
Caremark Corp., (CVS)  which is offering $2 off the purchase of two
bottles of Pantene shampoo, representing a discount of about 20
percent, according to its website.  Unilever’s U.S. shampoo sales declined 3.3 percent in the
third quarter, according to data tracker Nielsen, after last
year’s double-digit percentage gains boosted by new products
like dandruff battler Clear. P&G’s sales in the same period rose
1.3 percent, faster than the category’s 0.7 percent growth.  Shampoo Falloff  The falloff in shampoo crimped the performance of
Unilever’s personal-care unit, the company’s biggest, which grew
at the  slowest pace  in more than two years in the quarter.  One competitor “is determined to rebuild their shares in
the U.S. at an enormous cost,” Polman told analysts. “We’ve
taken a prudent approach, and as a result on personal care, our
growth in the quarter has been less than we originally
anticipated.”  In P&G, where Polman spent the first 26 years of his
career, the CEO is facing a familiar adversary. In May, the
maker of Ariel detergent brought former CEO A.G. Lafley back to
run the business, replacing his hand-picked successor, Bob McDonald. Lafley has pledged to regain customers in its home
market.  Unilever now faces a choice. It can match competitors price
cuts to win back some share, putting profit margins at risk. Or
it can stay the course and suffer the loss of sales, while
protecting margins. Berenberg Bank analyst  James Targett  says
the company will pursue the latter option.  ‘Balancing Act’  “It’s a balancing act, but I would say they would allow
themselves to lose some market share to protect their margins,”
Targett said in an interview. “They want to be disciplined.”  Unilever shares rose 0.2 percent to 29 euros at 2:36 p.m.
in Amsterdam, leaving them little changed this year. P&G
advanced 0.7 percent to $80.91 yesterday in  New York , extending
the stock’s gain for 2013 to 19 percent.  Slowing demand in emerging markets, where Unilever
generates more than half its revenue, contributed to so-called
underlying sales rising only 3.2 percent in the third quarter
compared with a year earlier. That compares with 5 percent
growth in the first half.  Emerging Markets  Revenue growth in  emerging markets  slowed to 5.9 percent
compared with 12 percent in the same period last year. It’s the
first time since the end of 2010 that sales in developing
regions like India and  Indonesia  increased less than 10 percent.  “We are not planning on any improvement in market growth -
- things remain volatile,” Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said by phone. “Emerging-market countries have slowed to 6
percent to 7 percent growth and that is good planning for the
quarters to come. We want to do better than those rates.”  Unilever’s emerging-market difficulties contrast with the
brighter picture painted by  Nestle (NESN)  SA and  Reckitt Benckiser
Group Plc. (RB/)  Nestle’s emerging-market revenue rose 8.8 percent in
the first nine months of the year, speeding up from the first-half’s 8.2 percent pace. Reckitt Benckiser, the maker of Durex
condoms, said this week that sales in  Latin America  and  Asia 
grew 10 percent in the third quarter. Both companies derive more
than 40 percent of their revenue from developing regions.  “The market is understandably a little skeptical that the
slowdown is purely a function of market growth and does not
reflect some Unilever-specific issues, given peers generally
seem to have been less impacted,” said Exane’s Stent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  