-- Unilever Sales Growth Slips to Four-Year Low as Demand Ebbs
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-10-24T07:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/unilever-sales-growth-slips-to-four-year-low-as-consumption-ebbs.html
Unilever (UNA) , the world’s second-biggest
consumer-products maker, reported the slowest quarterly sales
growth in four years as demand for its soaps and spreads
declined around the globe.  So-called underlying sales rose 3.2 percent in the third
quarter compared with a year earlier, the British-Dutch maker of
Clear shampoo said today in a statement. That compares with 5
percent growth in the first half, while the median estimate of
14  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 3.3 percent gain.  The Magnum ice-cream maker said sales growth will
accelerate in the fourth quarter, driven by innovation. Demand
has slowed in  emerging markets , where the company generates more
than half of its revenue, and failed to pick up in  North America 
and  Europe  amid higher levels of competition.  “We are not planning on any improvement in market growth
-- things remain volatile,” Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said by phone. “Emerging-market countries have slowed to 6
percent to 7 percent growth and that is good planning for the
quarters to come. We want to do better than those rates.”  Unilever shares fell 0.6 percent to 28.78 euros at 9:10
a.m. in Amsterdam, leaving them little changed this year. Nestle
SA stock rose 0.3 percent to 65.40 Swiss francs in Zurich, while
yogurt maker Danone gained 0.5 percent to 54.82 euros.  Sales Guidance  Unilever said last month that sales growth in the quarter
would be 3 percent to 3.5 percent, hurt by weak currencies in
 developing countries , which account for 57 percent of revenue.
Polman is also faced with worsening  consumer confidence  in the
U.S., its single largest market.  The company, which sold its Wish-Bone salad dressing
business, also withdrew from less profitable ice-cream products
in North America and continued to struggle with its spreads
division, limiting underlying sales growth in the Americas
region to 1.8 percent.  In Europe, Unilever sold more products overall as it cut
prices and as warmer weather buoyed demand for frozen treats in
the north of the region, bringing underlying sales growth to 0.4
percent.  “The absence of mature market growth is a salient feature
relative to a number of its peers,” Oriel Securities analyst
 Chris Wickham  said in a note to clients.  Rivals’ Growth  Revenue growth in emerging markets slowed to 5.9 percent
compared with 12 percent in the same period last year. It’s the
first time since the end of 2010 that sales in developing
markets like India and  Indonesia  increased less than 10 percent.  Unilever’s emerging-market difficulties contrast with the
brighter picture painted by Nestle and  Reckitt Benckiser Group
Plc. (RB/)  Nestle’s emerging-market revenue rose 8.8 percent in the
first nine months of the year, speeding up from the first-half’s
8.2 percent pace. Reckitt Benckiser, the maker of Durex condoms,
said this week that sales in  Latin America  and  Asia  grew 10
percent in the third quarter. Both companies derive more than 40
percent of their revenue from developing regions.  “The market is understandably a little skeptical that the
slowdown is purely a function of market growth and does not
reflect some Unilever-specific issues, given peers generally
seem to have been less impacted,” said Exane BNP Paribas
analyst Jeff Stent.  Units sold rose 1.9 percent in the quarter, Unilever said,
topping the 1.7 percent gain estimated by analysts. Underlying
sales exclude acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  