-- Uninsured Americans to Have Until March 31 to Get Covered
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-10-24T01:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/uninsured-americans-to-have-until-march-31-to-get-covered.html
The Obama administration is giving
individuals who buy health insurance through government-run
marketplaces until the end of March to enroll in a plan without
a penalty, according to a White House statement.  The administration plans to issue guidelines soon to
clarify the deadlines under President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
law, according to the statement released tonight.  The open enrollment period extends from Oct. 1 to March 31.
Under the law, anyone who isn’t covered for three months or
longer faces a financial penalty for not having insurance. In
order for the insurance to take effect, uninsured Americans
would have to sign up by Feb. 15 to avoid facing fines.  The change effectively gives an individuals an extra six
weeks to enroll.  Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman, said earlier via
Twitter that the “individual mandate timing hasn’t changed.”
The deadline to get insurance remains March 31.  Enrollments through online insurance exchanges, a central
part of the health-care law that was Obama’s signature
legislative achievement, have plagued by technical issues on the
healthcare.gov website since its debut on Oct. 1.  The difficulties have spurred congressional hearings and
calls from some congressional Republicans for Health and Human
Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  to resign.  Obama Frustrated  Obama, who said this week he’s frustrated by the website’s
flaws, has drafted health-care entrepreneur and adviser Jeffrey Zients to lead the effort to fix the process. The government
also is bringing technical specialists from outside the
government to assist.  Sebelius and other administration officials met today at
the White House with the heads of  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ,  Aetna Inc. (AET)  and
at least 10 other insurers to discuss correcting flaws in how
data from the marketplaces are transferred to the companies.  House Republicans  have seized on the technical defects with
the exchanges to renew a push to delay implementation of the
health-care law, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  