-- Murdoch Testimony to U.K. Parliament Delayed by Hacking Trials
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-10-24T12:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/murdoch-testimony-to-u-k-parliament-delayed-by-hacking-trials.html
News Corp . Chairman  Rupert Murdoch ’s
recall before the British Parliament’s Culture Committee has
been delayed by pending trials of his staff for hacking phones
and paying bribes.  The committee chairman,  John Whittingdale , wrote to Murdoch
in July requesting he return to testify, after a recording was
released of him discussing the investigation into whether his
British newspapers broke the law. At the time, the committee
said he would appear later this year.  Whittingdale said today the hearing would be delayed to
avoid compromising trials of News Corp. journalists and
executives scheduled to start next week.  “The committee took legal advice that there was a risk
that any questions we put to Mr. Murdoch might prejudice the
ongoing trials,” Whittingdale said in an e-mailed statement.
“On that basis we decided not to pursue it at this stage, but
we reserve the right to call him back when the trials are
over.”  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive of the company’s
U.K. newspaper unit, and  Andy Coulson , who like Brooks edited
the now-defunct News of the World tabloid, are among defendants
going on trial next week.  Murdoch wrote to lawmakers in July that he “used the wrong
adjectives” to describe the police investigation when speaking
to staff on his British newspapers. The conversation was
secretly recorded by one of the journalists present. The News
Corp. chairman described the transcript of the March meeting as
“selective.”  Police have made more than 100 arrests, including former
News Corp. journalists and staff, in probes of wrongdoing at the
company’s U.K. publications triggered by the discovery two years
ago that the News of the World listened to messages on the
mobile phone of a murdered teenager.  News Corp. (NWSA)  split its
broadcast and newspaper units into different companies following
the scandal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  