-- Used Cowboy Boots for Christmas as Jobs Recovery Slows
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-10-24T14:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/used-cowboy-boots-for-christmas-as-jobs-recovery-slows.html
Katie Smith plans to spend $200 less
on holiday gifts this year because of concerns that weak U.S.
job growth will hurt her husband’s home-remodeling business.  “We’ve scaled back,” said the 51-year-old project manager
for Wake Forest University’s medical school as she perused
cowboy boots for her 12-year-old daughter at a Salvation Army
thrift store in Greensboro, North Carolina. Her family plans to
spend about $1,000 on gifts, down from $1,200 last year.  With U.S. economic growth trailing the Federal Reserve’s
projections, shoppers have plenty of reasons to hoard their
dollars this holiday season. This week the government said
employers added 45,000 fewer jobs in September than August. The
news came with consumers already absorbing the implications of
stagnant wages, a cooling housing market and the government
shutdown and debt ceiling debate.  Retailers from  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  to  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  missed second-quarter sales estimates and cut their
forecasts. To lure shoppers who have been shifting their dollars
away from apparel and other general merchandise to cars and
home-related products, chains are planning to introduce
discounts early in the season.  In the past three months, job growth has averaged 143,000
per month, compared with 195,000 in the first half of the year.
While consumer spending in November and December may rise 3.9
percent this year to $602.1 billion, according to the National
Retail Federation, that’s only 0.4 percent more than last year
and lower than 2011, when spending rose 5.1 percent.  Debt Ceiling  Shoppers don’t necessarily “come into Target thinking
about the debt ceiling,” Kathee Tesija, executive vice
president of merchandising and supply chain for Target Corp.,
said yesterday in an interview. “They’re thinking, ‘Is my job
secure? Is my partner’s or my spouse’s job secure?’”  Seasonal discounts threaten to dent retailers’
profitability, which already has taken a hit this year. The
average gross margin for the 32 companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Retailing Index narrowed to 32.9 percent in the third
quarter, from about 33.1 percent a year earlier, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Macy’s, Nordstrom and Target all were among the 10 worst-performing stocks in the 32-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Retailing Index this year through yesterday. Also in the bottom
10 were Gap Inc., Family Dollar Stores Inc., J.C. Penney Co.,
Urban Outfitters Inc. and Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  Value Focus  Shoppers at all income levels this season will focus on
value, whether in the form of discounts, quality or service, NRF
President Matthew Shay said earlier this month.  Some of the hottest items this year are predicted to be
high-priced goods such as video-game consoles and electronics,
said Target’s Tesija and Jeff Jones, chief marketing officer of
the Minneapolis-based chain. Target, recognizing that its
shoppers are spending more on one or two big-ticket items rather
than on a greater number of less-expensive gifts, plans to air
an ad showing creative ways to wrap those fewer, smaller
purchases, such as mobile phones, to create a splash.  The top categories consumers plan to spend more money on
this season are gift cards, technology products, toys and
apparel, according to New York-based market researcher Nielsen
Holdings NV. About 12 percent of households with annual incomes
of $50,000 or less plan to spend more money on food as gifts
than last year, the firm said.  Spending Wave  Retailers also are continuing their trend of opening ever
earlier to get shoppers’ first wave of spending. That’s
especially important in a Thanksgiving-to-Christmas holiday
season that’s only 25 days, six days shorter than in 2012.  J.C.
Penney (JCP) , Macy’s and Kohl’s Corp. all are opening their stores at
8 p.m. on Thanksgiving this year. Kohl’s and Macy’s let shoppers
in at midnight on Black Friday last year while J.C. Penney
opened at 8 a.m.  One bright spot in the economy has been the rising stock
 market , which may boost spending among the wealthy consumers who
constantly are aware of the value of their portfolios. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 22 percent this year
through yesterday. That’s already a larger gain than the index
has posted in a full year since 2009. About $4 trillion has been
added to U.S. equity values this year.  “When you look at the strong gains in the equity market as
well as the housing rebound, those are strong tailwinds for
affluent consumers,” James Russo, senior vice president of
global consumer insights at Nielsen, said in a phone interview.
“We know the economy is improving, but it’s not a rising tide
that affects all ships.”  Marianne Verbuit, who runs her own French and math tutoring
company in New York, is among those uneasy about being too
profligate during the holiday season. The 51-year-old says
confusion about whether she should sign up for health insurance
under the Affordable Care Act and general economic concerns have
made her plan to spend less than last year, while declining to
provide a specific amount.  “The rent is going up, and the salary is not going up at
all,” Verbuit said, “so of course we are buying less.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  