-- Hutchison Whampoa May Lose U.K. Tax-Relief Bid, EU Aide Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-10-25T02:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/hutchison-whampoa-may-lose-u-k-tax-relief-bid-court-aide-says.html
Companies owned by billionaire  Li
Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  may lose a bid for tax relief
on losses by its U.K. mobile phone unit because the parent
company is situated outside the European Union, an adviser to
the bloc’s top court said.  The U.K. is allowed to exclude such companies from relief
because their group parent isn’t based in the EU, Niilo
Jaeaeskinen, an advocate general at the EU Court of Justice in
Luxembourg said in a non-binding opinion yesterday. Britain
can’t deny tax relief to companies with parent companies inside
the 28-nation bloc, he said.  The case follows two decisions by the EU’s top court on the
legality of the U.K. corporate tax rules. A 2005  ruling  in a
case involving  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  said that EU rules
allow companies to deduct foreign losses from their tax bill in
some cases. In a case last year involving  Royal Philips
Electronics NV (PHIA) , the court said that the U.K. must allow the
local unit of a Dutch company to deduct losses from its British
tax bill.  In yesterday’s case, Hutchison Whampoa companies, which
include the U.K.’s Superdrug and the British arm of the Dutch
Kruidvat health-care chains, sought relief for the losses of
Hutchison 3G U.K.  The U.K. Tax Tribunal last year sought the EU court’s
guidance on whether the country’s rules were in line with the
bloc’s law.  Relief Claims  “The opinion agrees with the U.K.’s case that although the
U.K. law at that time was incompatible with EU law, the facts
may mean that no group relief is due,” HM Revenue & Customs,
the U.K.’s tax authority, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
U.K. changed the relevant law in 2010.”  Christian Salbaing, Hutchison Whampoa Europe’s deputy
chairman, said in an e-mailed statement that the opinion
“confirms the basis of our consortium relief claims.”  “We look forward to the final decision of the European
Court of Justice on this matter,” he said.  The case is:  C-80/12 , Felixstowe Dock and Railway Company
Ltd, Savers Health and Beauty Ltd, Walton Container Terminal
Ltd, AS Watson card Services (U.K.) Ltd, Hutchison Whampoa
(Europe) Ltd, Kruidvat U.K. Ltd, Superdrug Stores plc v. The
Commissioners for Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  