-- Vermeer’s Girl with a Pearl Earring Seduces at Frick
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2013-10-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/vermeer-s-girl-with-a-pearl-earring-seduces-at-frick.html
Vermeer’s “Girl with a Pearl
Earring” is the ultimate expression of unrequited love.
Glowing in the pooled darkness, she turns toward us, looking
down and over her shoulder with seductive eyes and moist, parted
lips.  Yet her long, hanging turban betrays indifference. It
swings toward us like a final curtain, indicating that she’s
forever turning away, saying “No” to our affections.  Is there another face in art so alluring yet standoffish?  The “Dutch  Mona Lisa ” broke my heart years ago in her
permanent home, the  Royal Picture Gallery Mauritshuis  in  The
Hague . I had her all to myself, unglazed, face-to-face for
nearly an hour.  I just saw the “Girl” again in  New York ’s Frick Collection.
She’s in the travelling loan “Vermeer, Rembrandt and Hals:
Masterpieces of Dutch Painting from the Mauritshuis.”  Chaperoned by two guards, Vermeer’s “Girl” hangs alone in a
large gallery. She feels constrained and enshrined, roped off
behind a big, half-moon slab of marble, and housed in a deep,
gray shadow box beneath two layers of glass.  I know: safety first. But I was reminded of the Popemobile.
Vermeer’s intimate little portrait is also hung
unfortunately high, endowing her with unwarranted airs.  Girl Fans  No doubt this is to accommodate the sightlines of the
expected throngs. When the “Girl” was exhibited in  Tokyo  last
year, she drew a record 10,500 visitors per day. So book your
timed-tickets early.  She still has mystery and power, but don’t expect Vermeer’s
“Girl” to really engage with you. Sadly, I left the Frick with
my heart intact.  Luckily, her entourage includes 14 other Dutch Golden Age
paintings.  Only one, Jan Steen’s large interior, “As the Old Sing, So
Pipe the Young,” is unglazed. It’s a raucous, drunken,
erotically charged family portrait in which the artist depicts
himself passing on questionable behaviors to the young.  There are two grand, three-quarter-length portraits by
Frans Hals that rival Velazquez. And Rembrandt, with two
portraits and two religious scenes, is experienced in full
force, especially in combination with the Frick’s own paintings
by the great Dutch master.  Three Vermeers  You can see the museum’s three Rembrandt paintings and
three Vermeers in a nearby gallery.  Jacob van Ruisdael’s sweeping “View of Haarlem with
Bleaching Grounds” is beautiful and expansive, dominated by a
dynamic, cloud-filled sky.  In Nicolaes Maes’s toy-like “The Old Lacemaker,” everything
is tilted forward, as if the content of the painting were about
to topple into our laps.  And in Gerard ter Borch’s suggestive “Woman Writing a
Letter,” the canopied bed advances, threatening to engulf her.  Carel Fabritius studied with Rembrandt and influenced
Vermeer. Among the most charming and rare pictures here is his
“Goldfinch.”  The bird is a fluttery, feisty, wispy little guy perched
on its feeding box. Emblazoning its black wing -- like a logo
that both grounds and sets the bird alight -- is an opaque
yellow lightning-bolt.  Like Vermeer’s “Girl,” which inspired a book and film, this
small picture has been in the spotlight recently because of
Donna Tartt’s new novel, “The Goldfinch.”  At the Frick, the charming bird won’t outshine Vermeer, but
it might just break a few hearts of its own.  “Vermeer, Rembrandt and Hals: Masterpieces of Dutch
Painting from the Mauritshuis” runs through Jan. 19 at the Frick
Collection, 1 E. 70th St. Information: +1-212-288-0700;
 http://www.frick.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  gadgets .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 