-- Vinci Says Tax Surcharge May Hurt Profit as Sales Beat Estimates
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-10-24T17:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/vinci-says-tax-surcharge-may-hurt-profit-as-sales-beat-estimates.html
Vinci SA (DG) , Europe’s biggest builder,
reported third-quarter sales that beat analysts’ estimates and
said a tax surcharge considered by the French Parliament may
hurt 2013 net income.  Revenue climbed 5.5 percent in the three months through
September to 10.82 billion euros ($14.9 billion), spurred by a
rebound in highway traffic, road works in France, and
construction projects abroad, the company said in a statement
today. That beat the average  estimate  of 10.46 billion euros in
a Bloomberg survey of five analysts.  Vinci reiterated its outlook for “slight organic” revenue
growth for the full year and also forecast a “slight decline”
in operating income. A surcharge considered by French lawmakers
“would negatively impact” net income, said the company, based
in Rueil-Malmaison near Paris.  Vinci  shares  rose 0.8 percent to 47.62 euros in Paris,
giving the company a market value of 28.6 billion euros.  To counter a slowdown in infrastructure spending in
 Poland  and other central European countries following the
completion of projects, Vinci agreed in December to purchase
Portuguese airport operator ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA for
3.1 billion euros. The company raised its stake in Aeroports de
Paris to 8 percent in July.  Vinci has sent information to potential buyers of its
parking-lot business that may fetch as much as 2 billion euros,
two people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg this month.  The company’s order book stood at 30.8 billion euros at the
end of September, down from 32.8 billion euros a year earlier.
The backlog will remain at a “high level” this year as Vinci
has yet to book “significant” contracts for metro lines in
 France  and  Chile  and for a stadium in Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net 
DG FP <Equity> 