-- Wal-Mart to Accelerate China Expansion With 110 New Stores
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-24T08:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/wal-mart-to-accelerate-expansion-in-china-with-110-new-stores.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, plans to add as many as 110 stores over three
years in  China , while shutting some outlets and remodeling
dozens more as it seeks to overhaul its business there.  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based company plans to open the
new stores from 2014 to 2016 in the world’s second-largest
economy, it said in a statement today. The retailer expects to
shutter up to 30 under-performing outlets over the next 18
months, Greg Foran, its China chief, said at a media briefing in
Beijing today.  Wal-Mart is closing less profitable stores and revamping
business units in China amid increasing competition from
regional rivals  Sun Art Retail Group Ltd. (6808)  and  China Resources
Enterprise Ltd. (291)  The U.S. retailer has been battling setbacks in
 emerging markets  including the end of a six-year partnership in
 India  with local billionaire Sunil Mittal.  “China presents one of the biggest opportunities for us
around the world to grow our stores and clubs, so its really
important,” Doug McMillon, president of Wal-Mart’s
international business, said today in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  The  retailer  in August cut its annual profit forecast after
U.S. shoppers’ reluctance to buy more than the bare necessities
hurt second-quarter sales. International operations will be an
area of growth for Wal-Mart, Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke 
said at the briefing. Duke was among international executives
who met with Chinese President Xi Jinping in China this week.  Competition  Wal-Mart faces several hurdles in China including intense
competition from local chains and a lack of scale that makes it
harder to offer lower prices than wet markets, said  Shaun Rein ,
Shanghai-based managing director at China Market Research Group.
“They haven’t been as quick to react to competition and local
players are able to cater to customers’ preferences faster than
Wal-Mart.”  Sun Art is China’s largest hypermarket operator, with a 14
percent share of the 574 billion  yuan  ($94 billion) industry
last year, according to Euromonitor International. Wal-Mart and
China Resources were tied for second place with an 11 percent
share each in 2012.  China’s hypermarket industry is going through a wave of
consolidation.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the largest U.K. retailer, said in
October it would pay $558 million to merge its more than 130
stores in China into a joint venture with Hong Kong-listed China
Resources.  Smaller Cities  Wal-Mart plans to ramp up expansion in smaller cities
outside Beijing and  Shanghai . The company is also investing in
distribution and will add a new center in the Northeastern city
of Shenyang next month. It is also remodeling 45 China stores
this year, with more planned over the next two years.  “We have supercenters and we have Sam’s Club; we’ll be
investing in both formats, as well as in distribution areas to
help us improve in areas such as fresh food,” said McMillon.  The company is hiring in China and expects to create about
19,000 jobs.  In India, Wal-Mart this month agreed to buy the stake held
by Mittal’s Bharti Enterprises Pvt. in their joint venture,
which runs wholesale stores. Foreign companies need a local
partner to run retail chains in India and Wal-Mart will have to
find a new partner to open outlets.  The company is still interested in India’s retail market
and is in discussion with the government, Asia head  Scott Price 
said at the press conference.  Wal-Mart’s net sales in China, excluding an online grocer
business, rose 6.3 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, while customer traffic declined 6.8 percent, according
to a Bloomberg transcript of the company’s earnings conference
call.  The big-box retailer named two new managers to its China
team, according to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News
last week. Adrian Blake will join as senior vice president of
business development for the region, and Rob Bray, currently
senior vice president of real estate design, construction and
store planning for Wal-Mart U.S., will become senior vice
president of real estate in China, according to the memo.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  