-- What You Don’t Know About Obama’s Drone War
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-24T16:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/what-you-don-t-know-about-obama-s-drone-war.html
There are strong arguments for a
change in the U.S.’s program of drone attacks, and they are made
in two reports released this week by human-rights groups. Both
reports, however, fail to emphasize a salient point: The program
has already been  modified .  The reports, by  Human Rights Watch  and  Amnesty
International , document cases of what appear to be
disproportionate use of force and the needless killing of
civilians. But the examples they cite predate President  Barack Obama ’s May 22 order to “heavily constrain” the U.S.’s use of
drones. In a  speech  the next day, Obama promised that the U.S.
would not use drones when it could capture a terrorist instead,
and that it would act only against those who pose an imminent
threat to the U.S. and when there was near certainty no
civilians would be harmed.  It’s hard to say for sure whether these reforms have
reduced the excesses of the drone program. Yet early indications
are encouraging.  According to figures compiled by the  Long War Journal , in
the last five months there have been 12 drone attacks in Yemen
causing two civilian deaths, compared with 15 attacks causing 13
civilian deaths in the same period last year. In  Pakistan ,
attacks have fallen to 10 from 25, with no civilian casualties
in either period.  These figures are rough, because the Long War Journal
relies on news reports. Human-rights researchers, on the other
hand, can thoroughly investigate individual cases by
interviewing eyewitnesses and sometimes examining evidence and
the attack scene.  Amnesty International’s report covered two drone attacks in
Pakistan after May 22. In both cases, it concluded that all 22
of those killed were or appeared to be members of armed groups.
More such investigations are needed to find out how well the
U.S. is sticking to its current policies.  That is not to say that the groups’ examination of past
practices are of no value. On the contrary, the reports should
be mandatory reading for future war-planners.  Speaking  to current and former soldiers this week, former
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  warned that technological
advances had led too many policy makers and members of the
public to regard war as a “kind of video game,” forgetting
that it is in fact “inevitably tragic, inefficient and
uncertain.” Those realities come across clearly in stories like
that of Pakistan’s Mamana Bibi, 68, who was blown to pieces by
two Hellfire missiles in front of three of her granddaughters
while gathering okra for dinner in her family’s field,
apparently after a Taliban fighter used a satellite phone on a
nearby road 10 minutes earlier.  The reports convey how -- in addition to killing and
maiming innocent people and destroying their homes and property
-- drone attacks can tear at the fabric of communities,
discouraging people from meeting for fear of attracting a
strike, or from aiding victims of a missile attack for fear of a
secondary assault. The cases show, with specifics, how attacks
generate hostility toward the U.S. and undermine confidence in
host governments, creating conditions for extremism to grow.  Amnesty International ’s contention that some U.S. drone
attacks “may constitute  war crimes ” has attracted a lot of
media attention in the last few days. Arguments over that claim
shouldn’t detract from the reports’ vivid accounting of a policy
whose costs the Obama administration took too long to recognize.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 