-- Wheat Climbs in Chicago as Demand Gains for Supplies Out of U.S.
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-10-24T09:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/wheat-climbs-a-third-day-as-china-south-america-demand-may-gain.html
Wheat rose for a third day on signs
demand for U.S. supplies will increase as weather disrupts crop
planting from  China  to  South America .  China, the world’s top consumer, committed to import 3.9
million metric tons of U.S. wheat this marketing year as of
Sept. 26, Department of Agriculture data show. That compares
with about 408,000 tons in the same period last year. The
country’s imports may more than triple to 9.5 million tons,
tying it with  Egypt  as the biggest buyer. Prices will stay above
$6.50 through the middle of 2014, according to Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  “There’s such a big import program for wheat being
anticipated in China this season, significantly up from last
year,” said Graydon Chong, a grains and oilseeds analyst at
Rabobank International in Sydney. “The additional demand from
global markets at the moment is helping keep wheat prices a
little firmer. We’ve seen a fair bit of demand come back.”  The contract for December delivery climbed 0.1 percent to
$7.025 a bushel by 4:27 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Milling wheat futures traded in Paris dropped 0.2 percent.  The worst drought in 50 years in areas of  Argentina , South
America’s biggest wheat exporter, resulted in “irreversible
damage” to the crop, researcher Oil World said Oct. 22. Wheat-growing areas on the North China Plain may be drier than normal
this winter, with crops dependent on rainfall in the spring,
AccuWeather Inc. said.  “Supply trends and developments in China, Brazil and
 Russia  are most supportive for wheat prices,”  Paul Deane , ANZ’s
senior agricultural economist, wrote in a report dated today.
While improving weather conditions have allowed some increase in
the pace of sowing after earlier delays, the area planted to
winter grains in Russia’s central and southern regions are still
25 percent behind for this time of the year, he said.  Soybeans for January delivery gained 0.4 percent to $13.085
a bushel. Corn for December delivery was unchanged at $4.4275 a
bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  