-- Why Is Facebook Putting Teens at Risk?
-- B y   E v a n   S e l i n g e r   a n d   W o o d r o w   H a r t z o g
-- 2013-10-24T15:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/why-is-facebook-putting-teens-at-risk-.html
When Facebook Inc. recently lifted
its  restriction  on public posts by teenagers, some privacy
scholars  applauded  the move as a win for parents -- offering
them a chance to teach their children about digital
accountability. They may be overstating the case, however. If
information and communication technologies aren’t designed to
help users -- especially younger ones -- guard their
information, appeals to good judgment and discipline won’t go
very far.  To understand the dynamics of Internet privacy, parents
need to appreciate what Facebook had previously done to shield
its young users. Before the most recent change, the social-media
site did a decent job of protecting privacy through  obscurity ,
especially for teenagers. Under its former policy, younger users
could communicate only within their extended network. Their
biggest privacy concern was whether one of their “friends” or
a “friend of friend” would release their information to an
unintended audience.  Now that  Facebook (FB)  has changed its policy, teens have access
to a broader, more public audience. Even if today’s children are
more Internet-savvy than their parents, they still need to be
taught to avoid oversharing, and parents are placed in the
unenviable position of guiding teens without seeming  too
controlling .  Data Sweep  Technological advances have made it easier to analyze large
data sets and identify patterns, and this makes Facebook
especially dangerous when filled with accessible, “public”
information. Facebook is designed to collect and hoard massive
amounts of personal data, and its search engine, Graph, allows
users to filter through a trove of information,  including 
“status updates, photo captions, check-ins and comments.” Of
course, other social-media services can be a liability, too.
Public Twitter posts can be easily found on Google, stored in
easily searchable databases and archived by preservationist
sites.  Searchability can become a  serious hazard  if it reveals the
controversial or embarrassing views, relationships and
experiences many of us had as teenagers. These seem harmless
when stored in our own memories but could be toxic if publicized
-- as our most humiliating or damaging moments become just a
click away.  The more public teenagers’ disclosures become, the easier
it will be for unintended parties to find them. The Web is
teeming with creeps, snoops, bullies and curious bloggers --
never mind potential employers -- who could have access to our
children’s darkest moments, and perhaps even make them go viral.
Consider “name and shame”  blogs  such as “Hello There,
Racists!” These websites aggregate offensive, regrettable and
embarrassing posts, many of which were written by younger users.
The kids whose worst moments are featured should have shown
better judgment, but the attention from such unwanted publicity
can be  catastrophic .  Thankfully, the default setting for teen accounts on
Facebook still restricts information to make it sharable only
with friends. However, the new policy also allows teenage users
to change the setting,  warning  those who do about basic problems
that can arise from posting publicly. This is a helpful nudge --
in principle. But convincing teenagers to act in their best
interest is often a losing battle.  There is ample evidence that people of all ages often fail
to grasp the consequences of sharing information about their
lives publicly.  Cognitive biases  -- that is, tendencies to reach
irrational judgments -- are a fundamental part of the mind’s
landscape, and teens are especially vulnerable to them. Hence,
teens who don’t appreciate the negative short- and long-term
outcomes of public posts will be resistant to protective nudges.
And once a social-media platform such as Facebook allows
teenagers to share far and wide -- and perhaps a chance at
Internet fame -- a pop-up warning won’t do much to dissuade
them.  Teens’ Judgment  Perhaps the most important reason Facebook shouldn’t have
introduced this change is that teens need opportunities to  fail
safely . They must be allowed to experiment -- to make mistakes
and to learn from them. As parents, our job is to encourage them
to explore ideas, experiences and even personas. Responsible
companies will do their part by offering teens technologies that
enhance personal development and strive for minimal risk.  Facebook now presents parents, teachers and teens with a
heightened challenge of taming a technological tool that often
encourages recklessness. While social media can be personally
empowering, it also gives others increasing control over our
lives -- including powerful companies and advertisers who often
seem a step ahead of our ability to defend against them. Growing
up online is complicated enough without the medium working
against you.  ( Evan Selinger  is an associate professor of philosophy at
Rochester Institute of Technology and a fellow at the Institute
for Ethics and Emerging Technology.  Woodrow Hartzog  is an
assistant professor at Samford University’s Cumberland School of
Law and affiliate scholar at the Center for Internet and Society
at Stanford Law School.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Evan Selinger at  eselinger@mail.rit.edu ;
Woodrow Hartzog at  whartzog@samford.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Alex Bruns at  abruns@bloomberg.net  