-- Wi-Lan, ITV, Motorola Mobility: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/wi-lan-itv-motorola-mobility-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a patent-infringement
trial in which Wi-Lan Inc. was seeking $248 million from the
iPhone maker over an invention for wireless technology used in
mobile devices.  Apple didn’t infringe a patent for technology used in
wireless networking, a federal jury in Marshall,  Texas , decided
yesterday. The jury, which deliberated for just over an hour,
also said the two patent claims were invalid.  Wi-Lan said it was reviewing its options, and that it
“does not believe previous license agreements signed related to
the patents are negatively impacted by this decision.”  Kristin
Huguet , a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately return
messages seeking comment on the verdict.  Wi-Lan relies on royalty payments for all of its sales.
Justin Kew, an analyst with  Cantor Fitzgerald , called the case
“pivotal” because an agreement with Cupertino, California-based Apple might eliminate much of the company’s litigation
costs that have led to quarterly losses.  Wi-Lan reported a loss of $762,000 in the second quarter on
revenue of $19.9 million, with litigation expenses accounting
for much of its costs.  Apple argued that it uses chips made by Qualcomm Inc.,
which doesn’t use the Wi-Lan technology. Mark Scarsi of Millbank
Tweed in  Los Angeles  told the jury that Wi-Lan valued the patent
at $4.3 million in 2006 and now wants a big payout by demanding
a cut from every iPhone sold.  Apple is “slinging mud” because it needs the technology
and knows it has to take a license to the patent, Sam Baxter of
McKool Smith in Marshall, representing Wi-Lan, told the jury.  The Ottawa-based company reached agreements with HTC Corp.,
Hewlett-Packard Co. and Novatel Wireless Inc. in the days before
the trial for undisclosed terms. That left Apple the sole
defendant.  BlackBerry Ltd. settled its fight with Wi-Lan, as did
Alcatel-Lucent.  The case is  Wi-Lan Inc. (WIN)  v. HTC Corp., 11-cv-00068, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Motorola Mobility Application Hints at New Android Phone Name  An application published in the database of the U.S. Patent
and  Trademark Office  may give hints about the name under which
an Android-powered mobile phone may be sold.  Motorola Trademark Holdings LLC filed an application Oct.
14 to register “Moto G” as a trademark. The company said in
the application that it intends to use the mark for mobile
phones, smartphones and such accessories as battery chargers,
adapters and removable covers.  Mountain View , California-based Google Inc. acquired
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. in 2012. At that time, Google
said in  a statement  it would run the acquisition as a separate
business, and that Motorola Mobility would remain an Android
licensee.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  TVCatchup Barred From Some Streaming, Ordered to Pay Damages  TVCatchup Ltd.,  a London-based television streaming
service, will be barred from offering streaming content from
some U.K. broadcasters’ digital channels, the English  High Court 
has ruled.  The  ruling  stems from a copyright-infringement suit brought
by  ITV Plc (ITV) , owner of the U.K.’s most-watched commercial TV
station, and the U.K.’s Channel 4 and Channel 5. In 2011, the
U.K. court sought guidance from the European Union’s top court,
the  EU Court of Justice , about whether content owners and
broadcasters had the right to prevent unauthorized streaming of
their content.  In March the EU court ruled that content owners and
broadcasters do have that right under the copyright rules of the
European Union.  The case then came back to the U.K., where the High Court
of Justice then issued a ruling specifically banning some
actions by TVCatchup.  The U.K. court said that while streaming of the digital
channels was barred, a discrepancy between U.K. and EU law meant
that TVCatchup could continue to stream the non-digital content
from ITV, and Channels 4 and 5.  It was “not possible” to interpret sections of U.K.
copyright law to make them compatible with EU copyright
directives, the court said. It did order TVCatchup to pay
damages for past acts of infringement, with that amount to be
determined by the court.  The streaming service was ordered to present financial
information to the court by Nov. 4, and must also publish the
court’s ruling on its websites. Other than publishing that
order, TVCatchup is ordered to “avoid any further comment or
discussion” of the ruling on its websites, according to the
ruling.  The case is ITV Broadcasting LTD. V. TVCatchup Ltd.,
HC10C01057, High Court of Justice,  Chancery Division .  Wild Games’ Copyright Claim Brings Down Negative Review Video  Wild Games Studio , a Canadian developer of computer games,
demanded that a review of its “ Day One Garry’s Incident ” game
be removed from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing site on the
grounds that its copyrights were infringed,  according to  the Raw
Story news website.  John Bain’s video review, which called the game
“astonishingly bad,” was taken down because Bain’s YouTube
Channel contains advertising, and Bain had no right to make
money from the review that featured the game, a Wild Games
spokesman told Raw Story.  The review was taken down and then Bain posted a  second
video  claiming Wild Games was misusing copyright law to protect
itself from a negative review, according to Raw Story.  Bain, who reviews games under the name “Raw Biscuit,”
said U.S. copyright law’s fair use provision should protect him
from copyright claims he says were aimed only at censoring him,
Raw Story reported.  Wild Games didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment on Bain’s reported remarks.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Sea World’s Killer Whale Protocols a Trade Secret, OSHA Says  Sea World Entertainment Inc. (SEAS) ’s safety protocols for
interaction between trainers and killer whales are a trade
secret, the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
told a federal judge, the  Associated Press   reported .  Under the Freedom of Information Act, the AP had filed
sought details of the protocols that were adopted after a Sea
World trainer was killed in February 2010 while interactive with
Tilikum, a six-ton killer whale.  Commission officials told the court that they feared they
would be held liable if they released the protocols, saying that
under federal law, employees of a government agency could face
as long as a year in prison for wrongful revelation of trade
secrets, according to the AP.  Although in August a federal judge rejected Sea World’s
claims the protocols were a trade secret and had ordered the
commission to release them, the commission has refused to
comply, the AP reported.  Counsel for Idaho Hospitals Seek Protection for Documents  Lawyers representing two Boise, Idaho-based hospitals in an
antitrust suit claim that hundreds of documents in the case are
trade secrets and requested that they be shielded from public
disclosure, the  Idaho  Statesman newspaper  reported .  Included on this list are noncompetition agreements doctors
signed with  St. Luke’s Health System , e-mails comparing fees
charged at that hospital with those charged by  St. Alphonsus
Regional Medical Center , and financial terms related to the
integration of several medical practice groups, according to the
newspaper.  While U.S. District Judge B. Lynn Winmill has ruled that
trade secrets need not be disclosed, he said that counsel for
the parties must present compelling reasons to keep these
secret, the Statesman reported.  The suit is related to St. Luke’s purchase of the Saltzer
Medical Group in Nampa, Idaho, with the Federal Trade Commission
and St. Alphonsus alleging the purchase will give St. Luke’s an
unfair competitive advantage and raise the cost of health care,
according to the Statesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  