-- WPP Shares Reach 13-Year High as Sales Growth Exceeds Publicis
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-10-24T09:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/wpp-sales-growth-meet-analyst-estimates-on-u-s-u-k-strength.html
WPP Plc (WPP) , the biggest advertising
company, reported third-quarter sales that outperformed French
rival  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , sending the stock to a 13-year high.  Revenue excluding currency fluctuations and acquisitions
grew 5 percent, the London-based company said today. Numis
Securities had projected 3.4 percent growth. Publicis, which is
merging with  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)  to unseat WPP as market leader,
last week reported sales growth that slowed to 3.5 percent.  WPP credited the U.K. and the Americas for its growth and
reiterated its annual target of more than 3 percent. Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Sorrell  is spending as much as 400
million pounds ($648 million) this year acquiring digital-ad
assets and operations in countries such as Turkey, Brazil,
Vietnam and India to counter slower growth in much of  Europe .  “My sense is WPP is picking up a bit of margin and from
the Publicis-Omnicom deal too and getting some good people from
the deal,” said  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at Panmure
Gordon & Co. in London. “Europe’s been a dog’s dinner for
three, four years now but we can really see a recover underway
in WPP numbers.”  WPP traded up 2.2 percent at 1,342 pence at 9:40 a.m. The
previous intraday high was in March 2000. Should the stock close
at high price, it would be the highest since at least January
1995, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Target ‘Conservative’  The more than 3 percent growth target is “conservative”
and WPP will probably beat Numis’s full-year growth forecast of
3.2 percent, analyst  Paul Richards  wrote in a note.  WPP has made 45 acquisitions or raised equity stakes in the
first nine months, with the bulk in new media and  emerging
markets . Last week, it bought the agency IM2.0 for an
undisclosed amount to bolster its network in  China , its third-biggest market.  The company sees growth improving in  Asia  in the final
quarter, while western Europe slows. All business sectors save
public relations are expected to maintain their growth rates
from the first nine months, according to the statement.  Net new business in the first nine months of the year
totaled 4.9 billion pounds. The company said it still aims to
grow faster than the industry average and expects annual profit
growth, before interest and taxes, of 10 percent to 15 percent,
bringing margin expansion of 0.5 percentage point or more.  Publicis-Omnicom  Publicis’s tie-up with Omnicom is due to be completed early
next year. Publicis reported a slowdown in the third quarter
last week as ad spending weakened in China. The day before, its
New York-based merger partner showed strength in  North America ,
reporting 4.1 percent sales growth, excluding some items.  WPP revenue for the quarter rose 7.4 percent to 2.68
billion pounds, meeting analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company reiterated its target for revenue from
fast-growing markets and digital operations to account for 40
percent to 45 percent of total sales in the next five years.  Omnicom and Paris-based Publicis announced an all-stock
deal in July that would give the combined company a market value
at the time of $35 billion. They held their first joint
management meeting over a long weekend in Miami to start work on
integration planning, according to an Oct. 21 statement issued
on the final day. The merger is due to be completed in the first
quarter of 2014, pending antitrust approvals.  The deal will bump WPP to number two in the advertising
world. It’s held the top spot since the 2008 acquisition of
Taylor Nelson Sofres Plc.  Prospects for 2014 look good with the  World Cup  in Brazil,
Winter Olympics in Sochi and mid-term Congressional elections in
the U.S., according to WPP. Sorrell said he expects ad industry
growth between 3.5 percent to 4 percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  