-- WTI in Midland Strengthens as Pipelines Move More Crude
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-10-24T19:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/wti-in-midland-strengthens-as-pipelines-move-more-crude.html
West  Texas  Intermediate crude in
Midland, Texas, strengthened for the third day in a row against
the same oil in Cushing,  Oklahoma , as key pipelines increased
rates after maintenance.  WTI in Midland and West Texas Sour both strengthened this
week as  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP) ’s Longhorn and  Sunoco
Logistics Partners LP (SXL) ’s Mid Valley pipelines moved more crude.
The Midland price has advanced $5.50 against WTI in Cushing in
three days and West Texas Sour has gained $5.  “You had a lot of stranded barrels,” said  Andrew Lebow , a
senior vice president at Jefferies Bache LLC in New York. “They
may be somewhat stranded still in November, but I think
December, January, these differentials will return to more
normal values. For West Texas Sour, forever, it was trading 25
to 30 (cents) under and it didn’t really move.”  WTI in Midland  strengthened by $1.75 a barrel to a discount
of $1.25 relative against WTI in Cushing at 2:07 p.m. East Coast
time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  WTS, a low-density, high-sulfur crude from the Permian
Basin, also priced in Midland, gained 75 cents to a discount of
$3 a barrel.  Sunoco increased flows on its Mid Valley Pipeline system to
about 150,000 barrels a day on Oct. 18 after essentially
shutting it for more than two days, according to Genscape Inc.,
a Louisville, Kentucky-based energy information provider. The
pipeline carries crude to Samaria,  Michigan , from Longview,
Texas.  Magellan ramped up rates to the full 225,000 barrels a day
on its Longhorn Pipeline to Houston from West Texas, Amrita Sen,
chief oil analyst for Energy Aspects Ltd. in London, said by
phone yesterday, citing a trade report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliot Caroom in New York at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  