-- WTI Falls After Rising First Time in Four Days on China
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-10-24T13:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/wti-rebounds-from-near-four-month-low-u-s-stockpiles-increase.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
tumbled as more Americans than forecast filed for  unemployment
benefits  and after gaining for the first time in four days as a
measure of  China ’s economic recovery topped forecasts.  Futures dropped after rising as much as 0.9 percent in  New
York . U.S. jobless claims fell less than estimated last week,
while the August trade deficit was little changed. A preliminary
index of manufacturing in China, the world’s second-biggest oil
user, advanced to 50.9 for October, beating the median estimate
of 50.4 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Central banks
in Norway and  Sweden  said today they’ll leave rates on hold.  “We’ve been hot and cold on China all week; even with
slower growth they have been building their strategic crude
reserves and will continue doing so, supporting demand,” Ole Hansen, head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S, said by
telephone from Moscow. “The Brent-WTI spread has also been very
volatile and created some opportunities. We’d seen that widen
out again, so people may be dipping their toes back in.”  WTI for December delivery fell as much as 0.8 percent to
$96.11 at 2:16 p.m. London time, after climbing as much as 83
cents to $97.69 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contract slid 1.5 percent yesterday to
$96.86, the lowest close since June 28. It lost 3.9 percent over
the previous three days and is up 5.3 percent for the year.  Brent for December settlement dropped as much as 70 cents
to $107.10 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark crude was at a $10.61 premium
to WTI. The spread narrowed for the first time in four days
yesterday to $10.94, after earlier this week reaching the
highest since April.  Chinese Factories  The China preliminary  Purchasing Managers ’ Index released
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics is higher than the
final level of 50.2 for last month. Readings above 50 indicate
expansion. The National Bureau of Statistics will publish the
government’s manufacturing gauge, with a larger sample size, on
Nov. 1.  China will account for about 11 percent of global oil
demand this year, compared with 21 percent for the U.S.,
according to forecasts from the  International Energy Agency .  U.S. jobless claims fell by 12,000 last week, to 350,000 in
the seven days ended Oct. 19, according to Labor Department data
released today. Claims exceeded the 340,000 forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 48 economists. The August trade deficit was
$38.8 billion compared with $38.6 billion in July, the Commerce
Department reported separately today in  Washington .  Crude ‘Oversold’  WTI’s 14-day relative strength index dropped to 30.2
yesterday, the lowest level since April 17, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Today’s reading is at about 30.4. Investors
typically buy contracts when the RSI declines below 30, which
signals prices may rebound.  “The market looks technically oversold,” said Mark Keenan, a cross-commodity research strategist at Societe
Generale SA in  Singapore .  Norway’s Norges Bank left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 1.5 percent for a 10th meeting as a deflating
housing market in Scandinavia’s richest economy removes pressure
to tighten policy. Sweden’s central bank, the Riksbank, left its
main rate at 1 percent for a fifth meeting and signaled it may
keep rates on hold longer than previously assessed.  Fuel Stockpiles  All but one of the 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
correctly forecast the Norwegian decision and all 17 economists
surveyed before the Swedish announcement correctly forecast that
decision. The  Federal Reserve  delayed a pullback in asset
purchases, saying last month it would continue purchases of $85
billion of bonds a month.  U.S.  crude inventories  rose by 5.2 million barrels in the
week ended Oct. 18, according to a report from the Energy
Information Administration yesterday. That’s more than a median
increase of 3 million estimated by analysts in a separate
Bloomberg survey. Supplies climbed to 379.8 million barrels, the
highest level since June 28.  Crude stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the biggest U.S.
oil-storage hub and the delivery point for WTI futures, climbed
by 358,000 barrels for a second weekly gain, said the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm.  Gasoline inventories  slid by 1.8 million barrels last week,
the report showed. They were forecast to decrease by 1 million
in the Bloomberg survey. Distillates, including heating oil and
diesel, rose by 1.5 million barrels, against a projected drop of
1.8 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  