-- WTI Oil Fluctuates on the Way to Biggest Weekly Loss Since June
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-10-25T07:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/wti-fluctuates-as-it-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-june.html
West Texas Intermediate swung
between gains and losses as prices headed for the biggest weekly
decline in four months, amid speculation that record U.S. crude
production will further bolster stockpiles.  Futures were little changed in  New York  after snapping a
three-day losing streak yesterday. The U.S. pumped oil at the
 fastest rate  since 1989, while stockpiles rose to the highest
level since June, government data showed this week.  Saudi
Arabia , the world’s largest crude exporter, is reducing
shipments in response to a possible year-end surplus in supply,
according to a tanker tracker.  “If stockpiles are high and trending higher, that’s going
to be a concern for WTI,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst
at Fat Prophets in Sydney. “There’s also a surge in U.S.
domestic supply.”  WTI for December delivery was at $97.10 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 1
cent, at 3:08 p.m. Singapore time. The contract climbed 25 cents
to $97.11 yesterday. The volume of all futures traded was about
46 percent less than the 100-day average. Prices have fallen 3.7
percent this week and poised for a third weekly drop.  Brent for December settlement slid 5 cents to $106.94 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a $9.84 premium to WTI, from
$9.88 yesterday. The spread was $11.67 on Oct. 22, the widest
since April.  Oil Supplies  U.S. crude output increased to 7.9 million barrels a day in
the week ended Oct. 18, the most since March 1989, according to
a report from the Energy Information Administration on Oct. 23.
Stockpiles expanded for a fifth week to 379.8 million barrels,
the Energy Department’s statistical unit said.  The nation, the world’s biggest oil consumer, will account
for about 21 percent of global demand this year, almost double
the estimate for  China , forecasts from the International Energy
Agency show.  In Saudi Arabia, the largest producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, crude exports are “starting
to go down,”  Roy Mason , the founder of Oil Movements, said
yesterday. Shipments from OPEC, excluding Angola and  Ecuador ,
will decrease by 0.5 percent to 23.8 million barrels a day in
the four weeks to Nov. 9, according to the consultant in
Halifax,  England .  WTI may decline next week as U.S. oil supplies gain amid
reduced demand, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Twenty-one
of 31 analysts and traders, or 68 percent, forecast futures will
drop through Nov. 1. Five respondents, or 16 percent, predicted
an advance and five estimated no change. Last week, 61 percent
in the survey said prices would fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  