-- Wynn ‘Flabbergasted’ as Caesars Exits Boston Over License
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-25T20:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/wynn-flabbergasted-by-caesars-boston-exit-amid-license-review.html
Steve Wynn , the billionaire founder
of  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , said he was “flabbergasted” when he
heard  Caesars (CZR)  Entertainment Corp. pulled out of a casino project
in Boston after a critical review by regulators.  Wynn, 71, who is pursuing a casino in nearby Everett,
 Massachusetts , said the licensing process in the state had left
him with more questions than answers.  “In my 47 years of business in the gaming industry, this
is probably one of the most challenging, complex situations that
I’ve ever faced,” Wynn said yesterday on a  conference call .
“If I was in any other business, and I was willing to spend the
kind of money, create the kind of jobs that these states have
requested, we would have the red carpet rolled out for us. But
if you’re in the gaming business, there’s sort of a crummy
presumption that you might be unsavory.”  Massachusetts legalized casino gambling two years ago and
is in the process of awarding three licenses for casino resorts.
Caesars dropped out of a proposed $1 billion project on Oct. 18
after investigators for the Massachusetts Gaming Commission
recommended that the company, the largest owner of casinos in
the U.S., be denied a license, Caesars Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Gary Loveman said in an Oct. 19 interview.  Wynn, the company’s chairman and CEO, also is seeking a
gaming license in  Pennsylvania  for a proposed casino in
Philadelphia and plans to offer online betting in  New Jersey .  Without identifying which state had inquired, he said
regulators asked one of his directors to prove he owned his car
and another for his marriage license with his spouse of 56
years.  ‘Deal Fatigue’  “For crying out loud, how ridiculous,” Wynn said on the
call. “We had to pay for this crap by the hour.” He added:
“Well, deal fatigue sets in at this point.”  Michael Sangalang, a spokesman for the Massachusetts
commission, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone or e-mail
request for comment after normal business hours.  Wynn has proposed a $1.2 billion resort on the Mystic River
near Boston.  Wynn’s Las Vegas-based company yesterday reported third-quarter earnings that topped analysts’ estimates as gambling
continues to boom in the Chinese enclave of  Macau .  Profit rose to $1.84 a share, excluding items, Wynn said in
a statement. That compared with analysts’ projections of $1.67,
the average of 22 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue
gained 7.1 percent to $1.39 billion, beating analysts’ forecasts
of $1.37 billion.  Wynn fell 2.7 percent to $168.18 at the close in  New York .
The stock has gained 50 percent this year. Caesars’ shares have
almost tripled over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  