-- Yandex’s Google Premium Shrinks on GDP: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-10-25T02:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/yandex-s-google-premium-shrinks-on-gdp-russia-overnight.html
Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s biggest Internet
company, fell in New York, narrowing its premium to Google Inc.
on concern the nation’s economic slowdown will reduce sales.  Shares of Yandex dropped 0.5 percent to $40.79 yesterday.
The decline sent valuations to 36 times estimated earnings, or
53 percent above Google’s multiple, shrinking the widest gap in
17 months reached on Oct. 10. The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity
Index of the most-traded Russian companies in the U.S. advanced
0.3 percent to 104.81, led by OAO Rostelecom. RTS stock-index
futures fell 0.2 percent to 148,660 in U.S. hours.  Russia’s $2 trillion economy, hobbled by weaker global
demand for its exports of oil and metals, is growing at the
slowest pace since a 2009 contraction. Yandex, whose market
share in  Russia  is twice that of Google’s, generates the bulk of
its  sales  from text-based advertising. While the Hague-based
company said yesterday that third-quarter revenue climbed 40
percent, analysts project the weakest annual gain on record,
according to the average of 16  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  “The market is showing some concerns over Russian economic
growth and since Yandex is a Russian company, it’s not immune
from economic slowdown,” Ivan Vasilevskiy, an analyst at Finam
Investment Co., said by phone from Moscow yesterday. He has a
hold recommendation on the shares. “If car dealers feel the
pain, it’s only a matter of time when Yandex will feel it, and
it won’t take too long.”  Ad Deal  Yandex plunged as much as 9 percent yesterday after an
advertising agreement with  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL)  diluted
profitability. The accord with Mail.ru will probably trim
Yandex’s full-year Ebitda margin by 1 percentage point, Chief
Financial Officer Alexander Shulgin said on a conference call.  Russian investment and real disposable incomes unexpectedly
fell in September and consumer spending slowed, adding to signs
the economic recovery is failing to gain momentum. Automakers
sold 2 million vehicles in the first nine months of 2013, 7
percent fewer than in the same period a year earlier, the
Association of European Businesses in Russia said Oct. 8. It was
the seventh straight monthly decline.  “Yandex doesn’t seem to have any significant catalyst to
fuel price gains in the next one or two quarters,” Boris Vilidnitsky, an analyst at Barclays Plc in  London  who has the
equivalent of a buy rating for Yandex, said by phone yesterday.
“Longer term, Yandex is a very strong story and a great buy. It
has sustainable competitive advantage over Google in Russia.”  Yandex’s Cash  While Yandex isn’t insulated from Russia’s economy, it
hasn’t been negatively affected by the slowdown given its
“strong” position in the online advertising market, Chief
Executive Officer Arkady Volozh said on a conference call
yesterday. The segment will increase an average 26 percent
annually in Russia from 2013 to 2015, Yandex said in a June
 presentation  citing ZenithOptimedia data.  Yandex has $982 million in cash and is yet to decide on how
to use it, Chief Financial Officer Alexander Shulgin said on the
conference call yesterday. The company has purchased about half
of the 12 million shares in a buyback program announced in
March. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reiterated its buy recommendation,
increasing its share-price estimate by 11 percent to $50,
according to an e-mailed report yesterday.  “All eyes will be on a possible announcement of plans for
the use of Yandex cash cushion,” JPMorgan’s analysts said in
the report.  Moscow-traded  futures  on Yandex stock expiring in December
rallied 3.4 percent to $40.60 in U.S. hours yesterday.  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge extended this year’s gain to
5.5 percent. Rostelecom, Russia’s state-run telecommunications
operator, rallied 4.8 percent to a three-month high of $21.04.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, was unchanged at
$29.53. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings
in the index futures, advanced 0.4 percent to 21.28 in U.S.
hours.  United Co. Rusal (486) , a Moscow-based aluminum producer, dropped
1.3 percent to HK$2.37 in Hong Kong trading as of 10:33 a.m.
local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  