-- YouTube Said to Plan Subscription Music Service
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-10-24T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/youtube-said-to-plan-subscription-music-service.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube is poised to
start a subscription-music service, according to people familiar
with the matter, setting up competition with streaming providers
Spotify Ltd. and Rdio Inc.  The service could start as soon as the end of the year,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
matter hasn’t been made public.  A subscription offering would supplement advertising sales
and advance Google’s goal of increasing revenue at YouTube, the
Web’s most widely-used video site. The company, based in
 Mountain View ,  California , already has a $9.99-a-month music-streaming service on its Google Play entertainment site, and is
adding content to take advantage of the popularity of mobile
devices using its Android software.  “We’re always working on new and better ways for people to
enjoy YouTube content across all screens, and on giving partners
more opportunities to reach their fans,” Matt McLernon, a
spokesman for YouTube, said yesterday. “However, we have
nothing to announce at this time.”  In July, the company invested $50 million in Vevo LLC, a
video website started by music companies that has a big presence
on YouTube.  Google rose 2.4 percent to $1,031.41 yesterday in  New York .
The shares have gained 46 percent  this year , versus the 22
percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Plans for a YouTube subscription service were reported
yesterday in the Los Angeles Times. The new product would
integrate with Google Play’s Music All Access, the newspaper
said. It also would offer features such as commercial-free
listening and the ability to store music on phones, the Times
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  