-- Tyson Stops Buying Canadian Cattle Shipped to U.S. Plants
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-10-24T18:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-24/tyson-stops-buying-canadian-cattle-shipped-to-u-s-plants.html
Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the biggest U.S.
meat processor, halted purchases of Canadian cattle shipped
directly to their beef plants to reduce costs.  Tyson stopped buying in mid-October after U.S. rules that
require labels to show where an animal was born, raised and
slaughtered signaled higher expenses, Worth Sparkman, a
spokesman, said today in an e-mail. The  company , based in
Springdale,  Arkansas , doesn’t have enough warehousing capacity
to accommodate those products, he said.  “These new rules significantly increase costs because they
require additional product codes, production breaks and product
segregation, including a separate category for cattle shipped
directly from Canada to U.S. beef plants without providing any
incremental value to our customers,” Sparkman said in response
to questions from  Bloomberg News .  The  Canadian Cattlemen’s Association  says Tyson is the
third-largest buyer of Canadian cattle. The company will
continue to buy Canadian-born animals sent to U.S. feedlots.
Sparkman declined to say how many animals were bought for U.S.
beef plants for processing.  Tyson bought about 3,000 cattle weekly from Canada, and the
nation’s exports probably will decline more than 150,000 head a
year, Brian Perillat, a senior analyst at Calgary-based  Canfax ,
a market-research unit of the cattlemen’s group, said in a
telephone interview.  Washington Plant  Tyson’s Pasco plant in Washington state is a large buyer of
animals from British Columbia and  Alberta , and producers in
parts of the Prairies will have to pay more to ship animals
elsewhere, Dennis Laycraft, the executive vice president of the
cattlemen’s association, said in a telephone interview from
Calgary.  For U.S. processors, “the best way to avoid extra costs is
simply to avoid the product,” Laycraft said in a telephone
interview from Calgary. “This is precisely what we were afraid
was going to happen.”  Feeder-cattle exports may increase by 100,000 head if U.S.
companies decide to buy them as a substitute to fattened
animals, Perillat of Canfax said.  In the U.S., feedlot operators typically buy 1-year-old
cattle that weight 500 pounds (227 kilograms) to 800 pounds,
called feeders, which are fattened on corn until they weigh
about 1,300 pounds and are sold to meatpackers.  Canada ’s feeder-cattle weekly exports to the U.S. have
climbed to 7,000 to 9,000 from 1,000 to 2,000 a year earlier,
Perillat said.  ‘Lose Buyer’  “We lose another buyer” for animals from Canadian
feedlots, Perillat of Canfax said. “A carcass is broken into so
many pieces. To keep all of that separate all the way through a
plant is not even logistically possible.”  Live-cattle exports to the U.S. have declined as much as 40
percent since the original label rules were effective in 2009,
Laycraft of the cattlemen’s association said. Canada shipped
709,000 head this year as of Sept. 14, including 500,000
directly to processing plants, he said.  Exports are “clearly going to go down,” Laycraft said.
Tyson is “pretty significant in Western Canada,” he said.  The association joined a group of meat and livestock groups
in Canada and the U.S. that filed a lawsuit in July against the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  to block the amended label rules.
The rules  cost  Canadian producers as much as C$40 ($38.37) per
head, or C$640 million a year, the association said in May.  Cattle futures for December delivery rose 0.1 percent today
to close at $1.32875 a pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
The price has advanced 4.6 percent in the past 12 months.  Feeder-cattle futures for January settlement declined 0.5
percent to $1.667 a pound. On Oct. 14, the price reached a
record $1.6995. The commodity has climbed 12 percent in the past
12 months.  JBS SA (JBSS3)  and Cargill Inc. are the biggest buyers of Canadian
cattle for the U.S., according to the cattlemen’s association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  