-- ‘Risk Rally’ in Indian Equities May Sustain, Taurus Asset Says
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-01-24T06:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/-risk-rally-in-indian-equities-may-sustain-taurus-asset-says.html
Sadanand Shetty, a Mumbai-based
senior  fund manager  at Taurus Asset Management Co., which
manages about $921 million in assets, comments after India’s
central bank cut the amount of deposits lenders need to set
aside as reserves for the first time since 2009 and signaled
future interest-rate cuts.  Shetty made his comments by phone.  “The  Reserve Bank  of India is infusing liquidity, which is
directionally positive. We needed a baby step to be taken and we
will have a cut in  interest rates , may be in the next monetary
policy.”  On stock markets:  “This rally is basically a risk-rally, which means the
stocks that were hammered last year have made a big bounce-back.  ‘‘I expect this rally to sustain because the massive gap
between last year’s outperformers, like  consumer goods  and
healthcare stocks, and underperformers, like shares of capital
goods, metal and real estate companies, has to be bridged.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rallied as much
as 1.3 percent to 16,976.62 after the Reserve Bank of India, or
RBI, unexpectedly reduced the cash reserve ratio to 5.5 percent
from 6 percent. The decision was predicted by three of 21
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  On bank stocks:  ‘‘Bank stocks have made a very decisive, and somewhat
surprising move, which means they are unlikely to go back to
their previous lows.  ‘‘We’ve significantly increased our exposure to banking
over the last one month or so.’’  The 14-member  Bankex Index (BANKEX)  erased early losses and surged
as much as 3.2 percent after the central bank announcement. The
gauge has climbed 23 percent so far this year, compared with a
9.9 percent gain for the Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  