-- M2 Machine Gun Gets U.S. Army Makeover
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-01-24T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/m2-machine-gun-gets-u-s-army-makeover.html
The U.S. Army’s “Ma Deuce,” the
.50-caliber M2 machine gun wielded by World War II hero Audie
Murphy, is being revamped to prevent malfunctions that have
injured dozens of soldiers.  Congress shifted $34 million at the Army’s request to
supplement $15 million originally sought in this year’s defense
budget for modifications to correct a “safety issue” with the
M2, according to the conference  report  accompanying legislation.
The funds may benefit gunmakers  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and U.S.
Ordnance Inc.  The money will buy about 6,400 kits that let soldiers
change barrels without manually resetting the weapon, a
sometimes time-consuming process that can result in hand or face
wounds when done improperly, Army officials said. The Army plans
to seek more funding and hold a competition later this year to
buy 28,000 more kits, part of an effort to upgrade its entire M2
inventory of 45,000 guns to newer M2A1 models.  “We’re able to make it a little better and hoping to
continue adding to its legend,” Army Lieutenant Colonel Thomas
Ryan, product manager for crew-served weapons at Picatinny
Arsenal in  New Jersey , said in an interview.  The added funding for upgrades was shifted from a program
to buy M2A1s. A quick-change barrel kit costs about $5,700,
compared with about $11,200 for a new machine gun, according to
Pentagon budget documents from February 2011.  “It’s a much more cost-effective way to convert the
fleet,” Fred Coppola, deputy project manager for soldier
weapons, said in an interview. The kits also include
enhancements such as a muzzle-flash suppressor, he said.  Browning’s Gun  The Browning .50-caliber machine gun was developed by John
Browning in 1918 at end of World War I. The belt-fed machine gun
became standard-issue in the U.S. Army in 1933. Its large
bullet, thick barrel and high rate of fire make it particularly
lethal against light-armored vehicles, low- and slow-flying
aircraft and boats.  Audie Murphy, among the most decorated American soldiers in
World War II, used one atop a burning tank destroyer in  France 
to fend off a German infantry attack on Jan. 26, 1945. He was
awarded the  Medal of Honor . Troops took to calling the gun Ma
Deuce after M2.  “It was just something that soldiers came up with,”
Gordon Rottman, a special-forces weapons specialist in  Vietnam 
who wrote the  book , “Browning .50-Caliber Machine Guns,” said
in an interview. Its Vietnam War-era nickname was “the 50-
cal.”  Injured 39  The M2 has been linked to weapons malfunctions and injuries
in  Iraq  and Afghanistan. Since December 2007, at least 143
malfunctions occurred, including 124 in Iraq and 19 in
Afghanistan, and at least 39 soldiers were injured from 2009 to
2011, Army Major Christopher Kasker said in an e-mail.  “This is not a contractor flaw,” said Kasker, an Army
spokesman at the Pentagon. “This is caused by soldiers not
following the procedures in the technical manual.”  Soldiers need to change the barrel on an M2 when it
overheats. They wear heat-resistant gloves when handling the
barrel, which glows neon orange during heavy fire. They can be
hurt if they don’t properly reset the weapon by hand, as is
required on the older weapons before firing.  “Weapon may explode if not properly headspaced!” an
 online  M2 instructional poster warns.  Headspace is the distance between the face of the bolt and
the bottom of the cartridge case in the chamber, and timing is
the adjustment of the gun so that firing takes place when
recoiling parts are in the correct position, Kasker said.  ‘Tedious Process’  Setting them involves screwing in the barrel, listening for
clicks and making adjustments with a small tool. “It’s a very
tedious process,” Ryan said. “It can take upwards of 20
minutes on a really bad day.”  In addition to cuts, bruises and burns, malfunctions can
lead to equipment failures such as rounds firing when they’re
not supposed to and cracked barrel extensions, Kasker said.  “The quick-change barrel kits will completely resolve this
long-standing issue with the M2,” he said.  The weapon will operate more like the M249 Squad Automatic
Weapon or “SAW,” and the M240 Medium Machine Gun, allowing
soldiers to “stay in the fight longer,” Ryan said.  Troops described the upgrade as an added benefit, similar
to the military’s adoption of rifle scopes and softer seats in
armored trucks.  “If there’s something you can do cost-effectively that
will better the weapon, why not?” Marine Lance Corporal Casey
Estep, a mechanic who manned an M2 on guard duty last year in
 Afghanistan , said in an interview.  Upgrades in  Alabama   The Army will upgrade M2s returning from the war zone at
Anniston Army Depot in Alabama, Kasker said. The design was
incorporated into new guns beginning in fiscal 2010, according
to budget documents.  “Improved parts and components” have been added to the M2
over the years, Rottman, the author, said. “But this is the
first really major change that reconfigures the weapon since it
was adopted.”  The Army has awarded a contract to General Dynamics
Armament and Technical Products, part of  Falls Church , Virginia-
based General Dynamics, to buy 6,000 new M2A1 guns and is
negotiating an additional 3,758 guns, Kasker said. It previously
bought standard M2s from General Dynamics and U.S. Ordnance of
McCarran,  Nevada .  General Dynamics has received about $240 million since
April 2009 under five contracts for M2 work, including
converting M2s to M2A1s and supplying new guns, according to
Karl Johnson, a company spokesman. Now it may face competition.  A  notice  seeking sources for the 28,000 upgrade kits has
received responses from five interested vendors:  Ohio  Ordnance
Works Inc. of Chardon, Ohio; Baxter Machine & Tool Co. of
Jackson,  Michigan ; MRF Machine and Hydraulics Inc. of Kent,
Ohio; Midwest Tool & Die Corp. of  Fort Wayne ,  Indiana ; and
Advanced Precision LLC of Reno, Nevada.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  