-- AAA Aspirations Overwhelmed by Facebook, Religion: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-01-24T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/aaa-aspirations-trumped-by-facebook-religion-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
It’s a rare economic story that
involves Facebook Inc., God and credit ratings.  Leave it to  Indonesia  to serve up a saga that speaks
volumes about the obstacles facing  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
economy. Although Indonesia doesn’t often make global headlines,
one event last week should have received more ink: Moody’s
Investors Service returned the country to investment grade for
the first time since the Asian financial crisis. It was an
overdue recognition of how far Indonesia has progressed in the
last 14 years.  Another news item got far more international attention: A
civil servant, Alexander Aan, posted “God does not exist” on
Facebook. He was beaten by a mob and faces as long as five years
in prison. Atheism is illegal in Indonesia, a predominantly
Muslim nation of 240 million.  The real story is misdirected anger. One guy with a laptop
and a Facebook account ginned up more outrage than the public
manages to direct at corrupt government officials who enrich
themselves while more than 100 million Indonesians survive on $2
a day. That’s the real affront, and it’s a reminder of what’s at
stake.  Incidents such as the attack on Aan serve as a distraction
from the broader Indonesia turnaround story. As the U.S. and
 France  smart over losing their AAA ratings,  Indonesia (IDGDPY)  is quietly
moving in the other direction.  Standard & Poor’s  still rates it
as junk, but it’s just a matter of time before S&P follows
Moody’s lead.  The Short List  By 2030, Indonesia will be the world’s sixth-biggest
economy, surpassing  Germany , Mexico, France and the U.K.,
according to Tai Hui, head of Southeast Asian research at
Standard Chartered Plc. It’s on Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s short
list to join  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China as a “BRIC”
nation. BRIICs?  The trouble with such optimism, though, is that it doesn’t
take account of the serious obstacles to Indonesia’ ascent. Two
are worth exploring: China and a sense of fatigue with reforms
aimed at fighting endemic corruption.  On a recent trip to  Jakarta (JCI) , Indonesia’s capital, where I
met with policy makers, business people and economists, a
question kept popping into my mind: OK, now what? The widely
held concern is about complacency, of Indonesia beginning to
believe the hype about its unstoppable trajectory and not acting
to realize it.  Much of the credit for Indonesia’s 6.5 percent growth goes
to political stability. Since 2004, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has reduced debt, negotiated a trade agreement with
 Japan  and solidified the democracy that replaced a corrupt
dictatorship. A torrent of money flowed to Indonesia in 2011,
when foreign direct investment surged 21 percent.  But the caveats are important. Indonesia’s economy is less
open than  Singapore ’s or  South Korea ’s. Much of the economy is
based on domestic sales of coal, metals, palm oil and timber.
Those goods it does export often go to  China , which is emerging
as the big wild card in the Indonesia equation.  We can add  Nouriel Roubini  to the list of those betting on
a significant slowdown for the world’s second-biggest economy.
“Export growth is slowing,” the co-founder of Roubini Global
Economics LLC told Bloomberg TV on Jan. 20. “If they don’t do
something -- stimulus in monetary and fiscal credit -- the risk
is that the growth will slow down well below 8 percent.”  Significant Blow  That may not sound so bad, considering China’s gross
domestic product expanded 9.2 percent last year. But given the
fast-widening gap between rich and poor in  China (CNGDPYOY) , the worsening
global outlook and the general lack of growth engines, a Chinese
deceleration would be a significant blow.  The bigger issue is Indonesia’s long and tricky to-do list.
Along with improved economic fundamentals, Yudhoyono’s team
fought corruption and cracked down on radicalism in the nation
with the largest Muslim population. At best, though, Yudhoyono
has made a small dent in the vast kleptocracy that’s a holdover
from dictator Suharto’s 32-year rule, from 1968 to 1998.  Infrastructure is a major hurdle, one more related to graft
than is often acknowledged. Recent upgrades will reinvigorate
Yudhoyono’s push to double spending on roads, ports and airports
to $140 billion by the end of 2014. The question is how many of
those billions will go into the pockets of corrupt officials. At
the moment, assume many.  Only when Indonesia creates strong institutions -- a more
independent judiciary, greater accountability among public
officials, a more aggressive agency to investigate and root out
graft -- will big infrastructure projects do their part to
generate growth and reduce poverty. This challenge shows how
corruption really is at the heart of so much of what ails
Indonesia.  The public needs to do its part. Indonesian demand for
cleaner government is the key to raising the nation’s ranking in
Transparency International’s  corruption perceptions index . In
2011, it came in 100th out of 183 economies, tied with
 Argentina ,  Burkina Faso  and  Mexico . Granted, that’s a big
improvement from 2004, when Indonesia  ranked  133rd along with
Democratic Republic of Congo, Georgia and Tajikistan. Yet to get
into the ranks of the world’s top 10 economies within two
decades, Indonesia must do better.  The return to investment-grade status is a fresh start for
Indonesia. It’s now up to officials in Jakarta to do something
with it.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 