-- Ackman to Indemnify Rail CEO Pick as Rival Canadian National Goes to Court
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-01-24T13:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/ackman-to-indemnify-rail-ceo-pick-as-rival-canadian-national-goes-to-court.html
Investor  William Ackman  said he will
shield his choice to run  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  against a
possible loss of benefits after the retired executive’s former
employer suspended pension and other payments.  Canadian National Railway Co. said yesterday that ex-Chief
Executive Officer  Hunter Harrison , Ackman’s pick to lead rival
Canadian Pacific, had breached or planned to breach his
contractual obligations. Ackman said Canadian National’s
litigation over Harrison’s benefits was “frivolous.”  Harrison, 67, is at the center of a three-way struggle. As
Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP prods Canadian
Pacific to hire him, Canadian National is moving to halt an
annual pension of $1.5 million and additional payments for a
total of $40 million if Harrison joins the smaller carrier.  “We’re going to indemnify him from any lawsuits he suffers
as a result of this,” Ackman said in an interview. “And we
have done our homework. He has not breached his agreements, and
therefore we don’t expect there will be exposure to us on the
indemnity.”  Canadian National has “reasonable grounds” to believe
that Harrison “breached and intends to breach his contractual
undertakings,” according to an e-mailed statement. The
Montreal-based railroad asked a federal judge in  Chicago  to
declare its actions “reasonable and lawful,” and determine
whether the facts support its assertion that Harrison breached
his agreement.  ‘Throw Around’  “We don’t just throw around $40 million,” Ackman said in
the interview. We don’t expect to have to make any payments
under this indemnity because the lawsuit’s completely
frivolous.’’  Canadian Pacific already has rebuffed Ackman’s quest to
install Harrison, and its board has reiterated support for
incumbent CEO Fred Green. Ackman is planning a proxy fight to
elect new directors.  Ackman will nominate himself; Paul C. Hilal, 45, a Pershing
partner; Gary F. Colter, Rebecca MacDonald and Anthony R. Melman
at the railroad’s annual meeting on May 17, Canadian Pacific
said yesterday in a statement.  Colter, 66, is the president and founder of CRS Inc., a
corporate restructuring and management consulting company,
according to a regulatory filing today. MacDonald, 58, is
founder and executive chairman of Just Energy Group Inc., which
markets deregulated gas and electricity. Melman, 64, is CEO of
Nevele Inc., a strategic financial adviser.  ‘Only About Money’  Ackman and Pershing,  Canadian Pacific ’s largest
shareholder, weren’t named as defendants in the Canadian
National complaint.  “This suit is only about money,” said Gregory Joseph, a
New York lawyer for Harrison. Joseph said Harrison
“scrupulously” honored a two-year non-compete agreement with
Canadian National after retiring in December 2009. “Canadian
National is not seeking to prevent Mr. Harrison from accepting a
position at Canadian Pacific, should one someday be offered,”
Joseph said.  Harrison ran Canadian National for seven years, a span in
which the country’s largest railroad outperformed Calgary-based
Canadian Pacific on industry benchmarks such as the ratio of
operating expenses to sales.  Non-Competition Agreements  Canadian National agreed to pay Harrison’s promised
benefits in retirement “only in return for Harrison’s loyalty
to CN and his conformance to bargained-for, reasonable non-
disclosure, non-competition and non-solicitation obligations,”
according to the railroad’s complaint.  Harrison has said he would be willing to lead Canadian
Pacific.  Canadian National  said its ex-CEO has been in breach of
his agreements and seeks a declaration from the court that it is
“entitled to cancel all pension, restricted stock unit and
other benefits otherwise due to Harrison.”  According to the complaint, Harrison told Canadian National
in a Jan. 5 call that he had been meeting with representatives
of Pershing, which had selected Canadian Pacific as an
investment. Pershing asked Harrison whether he would be willing
to be CEO of Canadian Pacific and he said yes, according to the
complaint.  Pershing owns a 14.2 percent stake in Canadian Pacific,
based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Ackman invests in companies
he deems undervalued and pushes changes he says will improve
shareholder returns.  The case is  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  v. Harrison,
12-00493, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  