-- Macy’s Sues Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Over Deal With J.C. Penney
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/macy-s-sues-martha-stewart-living-to-enforce-exclusivity-accord.html
Macy’s Inc. (M)  is seeking in court to
enforce an agreement with Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc.
allowing the department store chain exclusive rights to sell
certain Martha Stewart-branded products.  The retailer filed a complaint in  New York  State Supreme
Court in Manhattan yesterday aimed at stopping New York-based
Martha Stewart Living from executing a new sales agreement with
J.C. Penney Co., according to court documents.  Macy’s, based in Cincinatti, renewed a 2006 agreement for
Martha Stewart-branded products, such as cookware, kitchen
utensils and bed and bath items, for another five years,  Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman for the retailer, said in an e-mail. It
expires in January 2018, Sluzewski said.  The lawsuit seeks to enforce the agreement “in which the
right for Macy’s to sell product exclusively in these categories
was clearly outlined,” Sluzewski said.  “Macy’s plans to fully support its exclusive Martha
Stewart-branded product going forward,” Sluzewski said.
“ Martha Stewart  is among a wide range of leading brands offered
in Macy’s home store and we will continue to expand and improve
our home offering based on localized customer preferences across
the country.”  Jeanne Meyer, a Martha Stewart Living spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail that the company “typically doesn’t comment on legal
matters.”  ‘Transformational’ Partnership  J.C. Penney Co. Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson ,
speaking in a Dec. 8 interview, said a partnership with Martha
Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. “will be transformational” for
the department store chain.  J.C. Penney agreed to acquire a 17 percent stake in the
housewares brand for $38.5 million, or $3.50 a share, according
to a joint statement by both companies. The Plano, Texas-based
department store chain is seeking to revive sales with new mini
stores dedicated to the Martha Stewart Living brand.  The case is Macy’s Inc. v.  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc. (MSO) , 650197/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  