-- Air Canada Says It’s Ready to Talk as Pilots Fault Company
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-01-24T23:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/air-canada-ends-labor-agreement-talks-with-pilots-union-says.html
Air Canada (AC/B) , the nation’s largest
airline, said it’s willing to keep talking with its pilots after
their union accused the company of abandoning negotiations.  Air Canada (AC/A)  “remains at the negotiating table awaiting a
response” from the Air Canada Pilots Association to a
“comprehensive” proposal made on Jan. 16, the Montreal-based
carrier said today in a statement. The two sides will continue
to negotiate under the supervision of a federally appointed
mediator, the company said.  Under federal law, Air Canada and its pilots now enter a
21-day “cooling-off” period, before either side can take any
action that could “escalate” the situation, the union said.
Paul Strachan, president of the association, said members are
willing to keep bargaining in the meantime.  “The statutory clock now is ticking,” Strachan said in a
telephone interview from Toronto. “At the end of the 21 days,
the parties will be in a strike or lockout position. If Air
Canada is serious about achieving a negotiated agreement, why
start this clock running? Our collective agreement is a very
complex document.”  The company and the union, which represents about 3,000
members, began negotiations in October 2010. After rejecting a
tentative agreement in May, the pilots are working under the
terms of their last accord, which expired at the end of March.
That contract froze pay at 2008 rates, the union said.  ‘Ample Time’  Air Canada disputes the union’s version of events, saying
the mediation period “provides ample time” to agree on a deal.
The company failed to make a proposal within a 60-day
conciliation process, the union said earlier today in a
statement.  Canadian Labor Minister Lisa Raitt “fully expects both
parties to fulfill their obligations under the Canada Labor Code
and to continue to bargain in good faith,” according to an
e-mailed statement from her office. “It is essential that
negotiations continue and that the parties overcome this current
impasse and move forward, towards a negotiated resolution to
this matter,” Raitt said.  Strachan, who isn’t involved in the labor talks, said union
negotiators told colleagues that Air Canada reintroduced “many
controversial items” from the failed labor agreement, in
addition to demanding “significant” concessions. He declined
to be more specific.  Whatever happens during the mediation, a strike or a
lockout couldn’t take place before the end of the cooling-off
period. Pilots could only walk off the job after the union had
held a vote and given 72 hours’ notice to the company.  Pilots would much prefer to agree on a deal, Strachan said.  “We haven’t engaged in industrial action, and we have no
plans to do so whatsoever,” he said. “We are committed to
bargaining this. We are not running around wildcat. We want to
achieve a properly negotiated agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  