-- Aldar Rallies to 2-Week High on Government Spending Plan: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-01-24T12:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/aldar-rises-on-government-plan-to-expand-airport-housing-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  led gains in
 Abu Dhabi  real estate stocks on investor bets the company may
benefit from a spending plan that includes the expansion of the
emirate’s airport and the construction of homes.  The shares of Aldar, Abu Dhabi’s biggest developer, soared
6 percent to 89 fils, the highest since Jan. 8, at the 2 p.m.
close.  Sorouh Real Estate PJSC (SOROUH)  climbed 5.3 percent to 79 fils,
the highest since Jan. 5. The stocks had the second and third-
biggest percentage gains on Abu Dhabi’s benchmark.  Gulf Cement
Co. PSC (GCEM) , the United Arab Emirates-based producer of the building
material, led the rally. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  rose 0.4
percent to 2,361.55, the highest since Jan. 11.  Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich emirate that’s transforming itself
into a business and cultural hub, plans to resume suspended
projects including branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums
after reviewing their viability, the government said late
yesterday. The  ADX Real Estate Index (ADRE) , down 54 percent in 2011,
rose 5.2 percent to the highest since Jan. 4.  “Although schedules, budgets and contractors have yet to
be announced, speculative buyers are active on the assumption
that companies such as Aldar and Sorouh would be front line
beneficiaries of any contract awards,” said  Julian Bruce ,
Dubai-based equity sales head at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  The executive council approved the building of 13,150 homes
for U.A.E. citizens in North Al Wathba, the country’s official
WAM news agency reported. Another 7,608 villas are expected to
be completed this year and delivered to the government. The
council also approved the building of schools, hospitals and two
roads, WAM reported.  2011 Slump  Developers in Abu Dhabi and the neighboring emirate Dubai
are struggling to pay off debt after property prices fell by
more than half from the market’s peak in 2008.  Aldar shares have dropped 3.3 percent this month, extending
last year’s  60 percent slump . The company obtained 16.8 billion
dirhams ($4.6 billion) from Abu Dhabi’s government by selling
assets in December. Sorouh tumbled 48 percent  last year  and has
fallen 7.1 percent in January.  Sorouh  may post  a fourth-quarter profit of 124 million
dirhams on Feb. 1 after a loss the year earlier, according to
the  median estimate  of four analysts on Bloomberg. The stock was
rated  “buy”  in new coverage last week at Beltone Financial,
which cited the company’s earnings and financial position.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  