-- Amazon Fire Tablet Leaves Google Apps Behind: Tech
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-01-24T20:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/amazon-fire-takes-android-while-leaving-google-apps-behind-tech.html
(Corrects 29th paragraph to show that Google hasn’t said it
is working on a tablet with the Nexus brand.)  Since  Google Inc. (GOOG)  introduced its
Android operating system in 2007, the company’s strategy has
been simple: Give it to developers for free and make money when
consumers click ads on the Web or through apps. That model is
hitting a snag.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and Chinese Internet giants Baidu Inc. and
Tencent Holdings Ltd. are using Android as a building block for
their devices, skipping preloaded applications such as Gmail,
Google Maps and YouTube that generate ad revenue for Google, as
well as its app store. Amazon’s Kindle Fire tablet, which is
gaining ground on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, comes with none of those
apps.  “The Fire may be the best Android tablet out there, even
though it’s the least Android-y of all of them,” said Noah
Elkin, an analyst at New York-based research firm  EMarketer Inc. 
“The Google experience is very much in the background.”  Mobile advertising is one of Google’s fastest-growing
markets, with  industrywide revenue  projected to rise to $20.6
billion in 2015 from $3.3 billion in 2010, according to Gartner
Inc. With online traffic increasingly coming through apps
instead of mobile browsers, Google’s push to wring mobile-ad
revenue from Android could be impeded if more device makers
emulate and succeed with Amazon’s scaled-back approach.  “Part of the reason Android is so important as an
operating system is that it lets Google put its mobile services
front and center,” said Ken Sena, an analyst at Evercore
Partners Inc.  Mobile Apps  According to  Flurry Inc. , a  software company  that tracks
usage of apps, the average smartphone owner uses a mobile app --
for example, seeking a restaurant by clicking on the OpenTable
Inc. icon on a phone, instead of using a browser to access the
website -- 94 minutes a day, compared to 72 minutes accessing
websites via a browser. A year ago, time was almost equally
split.  “This may be small potatoes now, but increasingly it’s
going to be way search gets conducted,” Sena said.  Many buyers may not know that the  Kindle Fire , estimated to
be the best-selling Android tablet ever, thanks to strong
holiday sales, is even an Android tablet.  Amazon uses its own  app store  instead of Google’s Android
Marketplace, and, like Apple, tightly controls which programs
can appear there. The Fire also features Amazon’s one-click e-
commerce shopping experience, already familiar to millions of
Amazon customers.  Apple Model  The device’s success -- with 5.5 million sold during the
holiday shopping season, according to  Anthony DiClemente , an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  -- shows that many consumers are
looking for such seamless interplay between software and
hardware.  “Apple has taught everyone that people value an integrated
ecosystem that just works,” said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst
at Gartner. “There’s a real possibility that Android could
succeed, but not deliver what Google hopes it will.”  Google executives say it’s more important for the company
to expand the Android ecosystem currently than it is to profit
from it. The more devices run on Android, the more people will
do mobile search and the more likely app makers are to develop
programs for the platform.  “We’re in the early stages of monetization” of Android,
Google Chief Executive Officer Larry Page said on a Jan. 19
earnings conference call with analysts. “We see a lot of
potential for us to make money on Android.”  Search Advertising  Google’s main source of  revenue  is advertising on its
search engine. Like Apple and its App Store,  Mountain View ,
California-based Google takes a 30 percent cut on sales of apps
from its Android Marketplace.  Of an estimated $44.6 billion in sales this year, $5.8
billion will come from mobile, according to Cowen & Co. Less
than half of Google’s mobile revenue comes from through mobile
apps, according to Sena. Google’s mobile business could expand
to more than $10 billion in four years, said  Mark Mahaney , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. That would outpace the 66 percent
total sales growth expected for Google from 2011 to 2015, the
average  estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yet even if 10 percent of all mobile app-related sales on
Android devices came through Amazon’s Kindle Fire -- which cuts
Google out of the equation -- Google would lose out on less than
$300 million in revenue.  Baidu, Tencent, Dell  Still, Amazon isn’t the only company whose plan is to push
Android into the background. In smartphones, Baidu and Tencent,
leaders in  China ’s Internet search and social-networking
markets, have created their own software suites to run on top of
Google’s operating system. Last month,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  unveiled a
smartphone, the Streak Pro, that will be sold in China. It is
the first device designed to run Baidu Yi, which includes
Baidu’s own programs for search, books, maps, music and local
recommendations.  Neither Baidu nor Tencent can point to Amazon-like
successes with these efforts so far. Dell also isn’t a powerful
player in tablets, said  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper
Jaffray Cos.  Facebook Inc., on the other hand, is an important wildcard.
 Tim Bajarin , president of  San Jose , California-based consultancy
Creative Strategies Inc., expects Facebook to introduce an
Android-based phone that wouldn’t include Google’s apps.
Instead, the user interface would be designed around its social
network and software from other app makers.  Google’s Terms  So far, Google has pursued an all-or-nothing approach to
licensing its suite of applications. In contract talks,
licensees may choose to use all or most of Google’s mobile apps,
or none of them. This means that to get popular apps such as
Gmail and  Google Maps , the licensee may also need to agree to
use Google Talk, a Skype-like app for making phone calls, or
Contacts, a tool for managing contact details.  Google insists on these terms to ensure that consumers
aren’t prevented from using apps that have become de facto
standards, and because Google’s apps are designed to work well
together, Android chief  Andy Rubin  has said. It’s also about
making money.  “There’s something that’s funding all this free software,
and it’s Google’s business model” to generate revenue from
search and its own apps, Rubin said at a press event on Dec. 21.  Some rivals say Google is unfairly using its influence to
push its own mobile offerings. Skyhook Wireless Inc. is suing
Google for allegedly preventing Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.
and another phonemaker from using Skyhook’s location-tracking
software, by insisting they make Google’s alternative the
default on their Android products.  ‘Play Nice’  Many device makers have little choice other than to take a
full suite of Google apps. Without Android, companies such as
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and HTC Corp. would have no platform for
competing with Apple. With no must-have apps or services of
their own, these device makers would be at a disadvantage
without Google apps.  “I don’t know if any other manufacturers have the clout to
do what Amazon is doing,” said Bajarin. “They need to play
nice with Google.”  Amazon doesn’t. Rather than make money on the hardware --it
sells the Kindle Fire at a loss for $199 -- its strategy is to
make devices that let customers stream or buy more movies, music
and books from its online store. To do that, Amazon created its
own mobile-app store and a browser called Silk. Amazon will make
$136 on each Kindle Fire, thanks to movie and book downloads
onto the device, according to Ross Sandler, an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets .  Google Phone?  Android devices that ship without Google’s services aren’t
a total loss for the company, said Maha Ibrahim, a partner at
Menlo Park, California-based investment firm Canaan Partners.  “Google has done an incredible job getting Android out
there,” she said. “They’d rather have Android be part of these
devices than not.” Fire owners can still do Internet searches
via Google or use Youtube.com or the Google Maps website.  Google may opt to create its own integrated phone that
highlights its services, as the Fire does for Amazon. The
company agreed in August to  acquire  Motorola Mobility.
Gartenberg, the Gartner analyst, expects Google to introduce a
tablet that showcases the company’s latest technology, just as
it has done with Nexus-branded smartphones in recent years.  “One way or another, they need to have a tablet that’s a
strong No. 3 to iPad and the Fire,” said Evercore’s Sena.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  