-- AMR’s Request to Hire Law Firms Questioned by U.S. Trustee
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-01-24T21:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/amr-s-request-to-hire-law-firms-advisers-questioned-by-u-s-trustee.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s request to hire four law
firms in addition to main bankruptcy counsel Weil, Gotshal &
Manges LLP was questioned by the U.S. Trustee, who is seeking
more disclosure about Weil and  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP .  AMR, which is reorganizing its American Airlines unit in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan , applied to hire Debevoise,
 Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP , Groom Law Group Chartered and  Paul
Hastings LLP (1135L)  to advise on labor issues. AMR also wants to hire
eight other consultants and financial advisers. The U.S.
Trustee, an arm of the  Justice Department  that oversees
bankruptcies, said the company hasn’t shown that it needs them.  “The scope of services set forth in each application is so
broad that the potential for duplication with the other firms is
apparent,” U.S. Trustee Tracy Hope Davis said in court papers
filed today. A hearing on AMR’s request to hire lawyers and
advisers is set for Jan. 27.  The applications for Debevoise and Weil failed to disclose
enough information to show that they are disinterested parties
in the case, Davis said. New York-based Debevoise has done work
for AMR since 1948, including on aircraft financing, employee
benefits and transactions, the U.S. Trustee said.  Weil has a corporate travel agreement with  American
Airlines  that gives it a discount on certain routes, according
to Davis. More information is needed to determine whether Weil
has a pre-bankruptcy claim related to the agreement, which may
affect its disinterestedness, Davis said.  Hicks Financing  Weil also worked for Thomas O. Hicks and entities he
controlled in connection with the financing of the American
Airlines Center in  Dallas , the U.S. Trustee said. More
information is needed about a lease involving a company tied to
the sports arena, Center Operating Co., which has an agreement
with the Dallas Stars hockey team, Davis said.  Hicks, of Hicks Equity Partners LLC, owned the Stars before
they were sold in bankruptcy in November.  AMR, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , seeks to hire Bain & Co.
and Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP as consultants,
Ernst & Young LLP as a tax adviser, KPMG LLP for tax compliance,
McKinsey Recovery & Transformation Services U.S. LLC as a
 management consultant , Perella Weinberg Partners LLP as a
financial adviser, Rothschild Inc. as a financial adviser and
investment banker, and SkyWorks Capital LLC as an aircraft
restructuring adviser, according to court papers.  The parent company of American Airlines sought Chapter 11
court protection on Nov. 29, saying it needed to reduce costs to
compete with carriers that had used bankruptcy to shed pension
and retiree benefit plans and restructure debt.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  