-- Land Securities CEO Salway Is to Step Down for London Manager Robert Noel
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-01-24T10:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/land-securities-ceo-francis-salway-to-step-down-and-be-replaced-by-noel.html
Francis Salway will step down as
 Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) ’s chief executive officer on March 31
and will be replaced by Robert Noel.  Salway, 54, has been chief executive of the U.K.’s largest
real estate investment trust by market value since 2004. Noel,
the 47-year-old managing director of Land Securities’ London
properties, joined in January 2010 from  Great Portland Estates
Plc (GPOR) , where he had been property director since 2002.  Noel, who will earn an annual salary of 680,000 pounds
($1.06 million), said one of his goals is a “little more pace
from top to bottom with everybody firing on all cylinders.”
Over the next two years the London-based company won’t change
its focus on keeping buildings leased and on developing new
properties, Noel said on a conference call. He wouldn’t comment
on whether he planned any changes to the management structure.  Land Securities, which has a  London  portfolio and a
collection of shopping malls outside the capital, today said
vacancies at it properties fell to 3.1 percent in the fourth
quarter after attracting tenants including CBRE Global
Investors. The company has been the second best-performing U.K.
REIT since Nov. 10, when it said the value of its properties
gained including the  office tower  nicknamed the Walkie Talkie in
the  City of London .  “It is a bit earlier than expected, as we thought Robert
Noel would have to prove himself first by delivering on the
development pipeline,”  Harm Meijer , a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst, said in a note to investors.  Distressed Assets  Salway said today in the conference call that Land
Securities is seeking to acquire distressed assets in Britain
from the banks and larger assets that were securitized using the
bond markets.  Land Securities shelved plans to divide itself in three in
November 2008, citing “unprecedented” instability in the
financial markets. It sold Trillium, the third part of the
business, for 444 million pounds in January 2009 to Telereal.  “This appointment might again raise the debate about the
company splitting,” Oriel Securities said in a note to
investors. “That is unlikely near term.”  Noel led the London team in starting several major
developments, such as the Walkie Talkie tower at 20 Fenchurch
Street. Land Securities sold stakes in the developments before
completion to reduce risk. Noel said construction costs on such
projects are coming in below expectations.  “They’ve come down over the last quarter, we are taking
advantage of those construction costs as we build, particularly
at 20 Fenchurch Street,” he said. “It is a material
advantage.”  Salway said he’s seeking “one more challenge” and has
“nothing specific planned.” The company had been aware of
Salway’s plans to leave since late 2010, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  