-- Land Securities Says Vacancy Rates Declined After It Attracted New Tenants
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-01-24T07:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/land-securities-says-vacancy-rates-declined-after-it-attracted-new-tenants.html
Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) , the
U.K.’s largest real estate investment trust by value, said
vacancies at it properties fell after attracting tenants
including CBRE Global Investors.  The vacancy rate for like-for-like assets declined to 3.1
percent for the quarter ending Dec. 31 from 3.3 percent in the
three months through September, according to a statement by the
London-based company today. The rate includes 0.9 percent of
temporarily leased space and excludes 0.6 percent where the
tenant is restructuring.  U.K. commercial-property prices fell for the second month
in December as demand for assets in all but the best locations
dropped amid concern that the country is slipping into
recession. The average value of stores, offices and warehouses
declined 0.1 percent in December from a year earlier with retail
properties falling 0.2 percent to lead the decline, Investment
Property Databank Ltd. said Jan. 16. The vacancy rate for retail
units owned by Land Securities rose to 3.4 percent from 3.3
percent at the end of September, it said.  “We have continued to make progress in the period, having
completed a number of development lettings and further reduced
void levels on our portfolio,” Chief Executive Officer Francis Salway said in a statement. “As is to be expected in a period
of economic uncertainty, letting transactions are taking longer
to execute.”  Salway will step down as CEO on March 31, the company said
in a separate statement. He will be replaced by Robert Noel,
currently managing director of the company’s  London  portfolio.  Land Securities has been the  second  best-performing U.K.
REIT since Nov. 10 when it said the value of its development
properties gained including the  office tower  nicknamed the
Walkie Talkie in the  City of London  financial district.  To contact the reporter on this story: Neil Callanan in London
at   ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  