-- Miller Wins $47,000 Costa Prize After Judges’ ‘Fierce’ Debate
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n   a n d   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-01-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/andrew-miller-s-pure-wins-47-000-costa-award-surviving-man-booker-snub.html
Andrew Miller  won the  Costa Book of
the Year  award last night for “Pure,” a novel about pre-
Revolutionary  France . He defeated four other authors including
the bookies’ favorite, biographer Matthew Hollis, and the U.K.
poet laureate, Carol Ann Duffy, to collect a prize of 30,000
pounds ($46,760).  Miller accepted the award during a champagne reception at
London restaurant Quaglino’s, having taken the Costa Novel Award
earlier this month over other finalists including  Julian Barnes .  Stepping up to the podium dressed in a brown corduroy suit,
Miller’s first word was “Blimey.” At a press conference
afterward, the 51-year-old author complimented his competitors,
adding that Duffy had helped him find a literary agent when he
was in his 20s.  He has no plans for his winnings, he said: “One thing I
have learned is don’t spend money you don’t have, so I haven’t
given that the slightest thought.” He’ll probably spend it “on
living,” perhaps splurging on a new pair of shoes, he added.  “Pure” (Sceptre) is the story of Jean-Baptiste Baratte, a
provincial engineer summoned to Paris in 1785 to demolish the
city’s oldest cemetery. He finds an overflowing bone yard that
is spreading disease.  It’s a depository of the dead and a carrier of death, yet
Les Innocents has wormed its way into the lives of those who
live nearby. Baratte soon realizes that what he had thought of
as an opportunity to clear the poisonous influence of the past
might become the cause of his own destruction.  Imaginary Paris  Though Miller has lived in Paris, he wrote “Pure” in
Somerset,  England .  “It’s a Paris of the imagination,” he said of the book’s
setting. “That’s how I like to work. Writing’s a kind of
organized dream. We sit in our rooms on our own and dream up
strange places and strange people and set them running.”  Miller is the author of five previous novels, and won the
International Impac Dublin Literary Award for his first,
“ Ingenious Pain .” “Pure” was snubbed by the judges of last
year’s Man  Booker Prize , failing to make even the long list.  “It is a rich and brilliant historical novel about death,
superstition,” said Geordie Greig, editor of the London Evening
Standard and chairman of the judging panel, at a press
conference before the ceremony. Greig also praised the book’s
“extraordinary scenes of corpses and cemeteries and sex.”  Five Prizes  Whitbread Plc (WTB) ’s Costa coffee-shop chain grants annual
awards of 5,000 pounds apiece for books in five categories --
novel, first novel, biography, poetry and children’s literature.
Those five then compete to be Costa Book of the Year.  Previously known as the Whitbreads, the prizes seek to
honor the most enjoyable books of the year by authors based in
the U.K. and Ireland.  This year’s competition included the winner of the
Biography Award, Hollis’s “Now All Roads Lead to France”
(Faber), a dramatic portrait of the Anglo-Welsh poet Edward
Thomas focusing on his friendship with Robert Frost and his
fateful decision to fight in World War I.  The other finalists were “The Bees” (Picador), Duffy’s
Poetry Award-winning collection of verse; nurse Christie
Watson’s “Tiny Sunbirds Far Away” (Quercus), which is set in
 Nigeria  and took the First Novel Award; and Moira Young’s
“Blood Red Road” (Marion Lloyd), a tale of a young girl’s
quest to find her missing brother in a futuristic dystopia,
which won the Children’s Book Award.  Fierce Debate  The judges’ “fierce” 90-minute debate, which Greig said
included “bitter dissent,” narrowed the contest down to
“Pure” and Hollis’s biography, which was praised by Greig as
being “incredibly subtle and brilliant.”  In pitting works of different genres against one another,
the prize has often been said to compare apples with oranges.
Greig disagreed. “It feels like you’re comparing bananas and
chicken curry,” he said.  Also announced was a new competition, the Costa Short Story
Award, which will run alongside the existing prizes, though the
winner won’t be eligible to compete for Book of the Year.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 