-- Warhol’s ‘Kitchen’ Gets Wet Kiss From Gob Squad: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-01-24T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/andy-warhol-s-kitchen-gets-long-wet-kiss-from-gob-squad-jeremy-gerard.html
Before taking a seat at the Public’s
 Newman Theatre , you’re invited to a quick backstage tour. As you
make your way across the stage, there are smiles and winks from
actors surrounded by a tangle of low-tech movie-making gear.  Out front, too, “Gob Squad’s ‘Kitchen’ (You’ve Never Had It
So Good)” looks and sounds like a backstage visit to some
cutting edge performance group, though there’s a decidedly retro
air. That’s apt: “Kitchen” in the lugubrious title refers to
Andy Warhol’s torpid 1965 film, a vehicle for Edie Sedgewick
that unfortunately had four flat tires and no distributor. (You
can see why in the clips on YouTube.)  Gob Squad, a group of post-grads from the U.K. and  Germany ,
have been knocking about  Europe  since the early 1990s. They’ve
spent the last few weeks roaming the streets of downtown
 Manhattan , having bystanders participate in impromptu movies
that are shown at ad hoc happenings. Now they’re in an actual
theater, while still depending on the willingness of strangers.  “Kitchen” replicates the Warhol film’s cheesy, minimalist
set: a couple of tables and chairs, a fridge, not much else.
It’s flanked by screens on which some of the events are
projected even as they’re taking place.  No Plot  The performers -- four women and one man -- are trying to
replicate “Kitchen,” although it has no plot. It’s about
suffocating claustrophobia in the big city. Even with their cool
costumes (all of them don striped sailor shirts), the Gobs
experience a crisis of hipness, or rather the lack of same.  So they prowl the audience in search of people who might
better play themselves and bring some sexual tension to the
proceedings. The volunteers take direction through headsets from
the actors they’re “playing.”  In the case of one mildly astonished young man the night I
saw the show, that called for being interviewed on a bed by the
appealing Sharon Smith. He squirmed when she asked him what,
precisely, he meant when he said he was a feminist.  Then she asked if they could kiss. He nervously assented
with a peck. She patiently explained that Warhol expected kisses
to last three minutes and then showed him what Andy meant. Three
minutes proved to be a very long, humid interlude.  Audience-participation is usually about as welcome as  Andy
Warhol  movies. Yet I was intriguingly unnerved, watching that
intimate scene unfold. The rest of “Gob Squad’s ‘Kitchen’” may
have been old hat. But there was something transfixing about
that kiss.  Through Feb. 5 at 425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-212-
967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org .
Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 