-- Apple Bites Into Core of School Textbook Monopoly: Byron Brown
-- B y   B y r o n   B r o w n
-- 2012-01-24T01:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/apple-bites-into-core-of-school-textbook-monopoly-byron-brown.html
When students in my online course in
intermediate microeconomic theory head for the bookstores they
will feel the pain of the marketplace.  The required text for the course, Jeffrey Perloff’s sixth
edition of “ Microeconomics ,” will lighten their wallets by a
hefty $206.67 retail. Or $147.52 from Amazon. The book is a 20-
chapter behemoth that tips the scales at over three pounds, more
than the weight of two iPads. The best deal for the students is
to buy a used copy in a local bookstore and resell it at the end
of the course. That option will end up costing a student about
$50 -- one-fourth of the publisher’s suggested retail price.
It’s the choice of about 75 percent of my students.  Why didn’t most of the students choose the electronic
version of the text? When publishers began producing e-texts
they sold them for about one-half the suggested retail price of
a new paper version. But students have shown a stiff resistance
to buying them, mostly because they are 65-plus percent more
expensive ($82.99 versus about $50 for the Perloff book) than
the used paper option.  Current e-texts are also a markedly inferior product. They
are static PDF knockoffs of vertically oriented print pages.
That means they don’t display well on most computer screens, and
they resist printing an easy-to-read copy by inexplicably
downsizing the fonts for home printing.  Put this together with the 180-day licensing period and
it’s no surprise that fewer than 15 percent of students choose
e-texts. (About half the students in my intermediate
microeconomics course are or will become economics majors. The
material in the text needs to be available for reference in
future courses in the major, and possibly in graduate school.)  Digital Delays  So far the mainstream publishing companies have shown an
inability or unwillingness to produce electronic versions of K-
12 or university-level textbooks that break the link with a
corresponding print mode. That might be an understandable
concession to navigating the book in a classroom for students
operating with different versions, but it has had the important
side effect of retarding the production of stand-alone texts
that would exist only in digital form, and with no paper
counterpart whatsoever.  E-texts that started as a way to kill, or at least maim,
the market in used paper texts actually retarded the development
of new digital texts with innovative features such as audio,
video and animated content under the control of the reader.
Over the past five years I have sat in my office many times with
publishers’ sales reps who completely understood that their
clay-footed bosses were wedded to the mentality of print.  It is not an uncommon story in economics to find industries
with monopoly or oligopoly power using that power to slow or
prevent innovation. In most cases the innovation is only
delayed.  Students and parents who are outraged by the high prices of
textbooks should be cheering monopoly-breaking innovations in
this hidebound market.  Last week Apple introduced new software and marketing
platforms that should, within a few years, totally reshape the
old ways of producing and distributing learning content. The
software is called iBooks Author, and the marketing plan
consists of an iBooks Store to sell e-texts for the iPad and a
new version of iTunes U for delivering content directly to
students.  Inefficient Navigation  I have created a large body of content for my students on
my own, but viewing videos and other media in traditional course
management systems means following internal links that open
videos in separate windows, interrupting the smooth flow of
logic and making efficient navigation impossible. We see the
possible alternatives to this every time we see an iPod
commercial or view news content on an iPad. We know that current
paper and electronic texts are static. All of this is about to
change.  Consider first the software part of  Apple’s (AAPL)  package,
because this is where a revolution would probably take place.
What is lacking in traditional e-texts is the seamless
integration of text and other media -- both video and audio --
and the flow and manipulation of content that the iPad and its
imitators provide. But that’s only part of it. The old iPad
apps, as well as the newsreaders we saw in the commercials,
depended on a staff of professionals who produce the digital
copy that consumers eventually download.  The revolution is that ordinary users -- on the order of
folks who can create a PowerPoint slide deck -- can now produce
copy that will run on the iPad. This is revolutionary. It will
unleash the creative powers of thousands of authors and artists,
to say nothing of us mere mortals. Just as important, it will
spawn imitators. Expect to see a  Google (GOOG)  app that will allow
users to create content for Android devices.  IBooks Author allows the creation of smoothly flowing iPad
“pages” of content in a mashup of text, videos, illustrations
and animations that can be manipulated by the students to suit
their learning needs. The software is free to everyone.
Teachers can use it to produce their own content for students,
customized to course objectives, but allowing the pedagogy to
exploit the free-flowing navigation of an iPad. In a
demonstration at Apple’s news conference, we saw that an author
could drag and drop an existing Word file into iBooks Author for
distribution on the iPad.  These new texts -- a term that undervalues their potential
importance -- can be the basis for a new art form. The crime
novel of the future will include not only text but also videos
and interactive illustrations. With iBooks Author, Apple is
hoping to do what  TechSmith  and  Camtasia Studio  did for the
production of videos for instruction: Put easy-to-use but
powerful creative tools in the hands of ordinary people.  Camtasia Studio, by putting the tools for video creation
and editing in to the hands of anyone with a computer, is now
the world leader in screen-capture software. We’ll see if Apple
can do the same for digital books.  Potential Barriers  What are the barriers to the best-case scenario playing out
for Apple? Foremost, of course, is that the plan for schools and
colleges would require a near universal ownership of iPads.
Colleges have achieved universal computer ownership for
students, but in most cases there is no requirement for a
specific brand.  Why would the major publishing companies agree to
collaborate with Apple? Why would they consent to a maximum
price per copy of $14.99 for K-12 texts and give Apple 30
percent of the gross? I suspect that when Apple came to them
they knew the jig was up.  On the bright side, textbook authors not affiliated with
the mainstream publishing companies may see the remaining 70
percent payout from publishing in the iBook Store as a handsome
payoff. It is true that the publishing companies can provide
marketing advantages in textbook markets, but these should be
valued conservatively. A principal benefit from the iBook Store
is that it is a very efficient way for prospective buyers to
scan the offerings of not just one publisher, but of many.  What I would like to see is a vast increase in the quantity
and diversity of instructional content in all fields.  The
traditional publishing companies will be hard pressed in such an
open-content world to maintain their current pricing models, and
they will also be forced to compete with innovative authors who
now will have drastically reduced entry barriers into the market
for learning materials. Easy entry into a market sounds the
death knell of monopoly, as any student of intermediate
microeconomics can tell you.  (Byron W. Brown is a professor of economics at  Michigan
State University . His position includes university-wide duties
helping faculty use instructional technology effectively. The
opinions expressed here are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Byron Brown at  brownb@msu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 