-- Apple Surges on Net Income Doubling
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-01-25T23:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/apple-posts-record-quarterly-profit-sales.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shares rose to a record
after quarterly profit more than doubled as holiday demand for
the iPhone and iPad cemented its position as the most valuable
technology company.  Apple’s stock gained 6.2 percent to a $446.66 after
reporting results yesterday. Apple’s increase, the company’s
biggest one-day rise since May 2010, made it the day’s best
 performer  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The company sold 37 million iPhones in the period ended
Dec. 31, with customers snapping up the new 4S model that went
on sale in October, a week after the death of co-founder Steve Jobs. Record revenue vaulted Apple ahead of Hewlett-Packard Co.
as the world’s biggest computer maker by sales and quelled
concern that the company’s allure may dim as it embarks on a new
era with Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  at the helm.  “The momentum that Steve Jobs created, Tim Cook is
maintaining,”  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.,
said in a televised interview on “Bloomberg West.” “We kind
of run out of adjectives to describe this quarter.”  Net income of $13.1 billion in the period that ended Dec.
31 ranked among the highest quarterly profits on record, putting
Apple in the same league as energy companies such as  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  Russia ’s  Gazprom OAO (OGZPY) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Per-share profit of $13.87 for the period was more than Apple
earned in any full year before 2010, as the success of the new
iPhone ramped up pressure on rivals Google Inc. and Samsung
Electronics Co.  ‘Stunning’ Numbers  The gain gives Apple a market value of about $416 billion,
just below Exxon’s $418 billion. The two companies have been
trading places atop the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since
August.  “Look at the Apple numbers, they were stunning,” Alcatel-
Lucent CEO Ben Verwaayen said in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” show at the
World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos,  Switzerland .
“It shows that even in a time of difficult circumstances, if
you have the right product and the right focus, you can make a
difference.”  Sales rose 73 percent to $46.3 billion in the fiscal first
quarter, Cupertino, California-based Apple said yesterday in a
statement. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg on average estimated
net income of $10.14 a share on sales of $39 billion.  ‘Unimaginable’ Numbers  In looking ahead to the second quarter, Apple forecast
revenue of about $32.5 billion and profit of $8.50 a share. That
compares with average analysts’  predictions  for sales of $31.9
billion and profit of $7.96 a share.  Except for the period that ended in September 2011, when
customers put off iPhone purchases in anticipation of the 4S,
Apple’s profit has  exceeded  analysts’ projections in every
quarter for at least six years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The quarterly results mark the first time Apple’s revenue
topped Hewlett-Packard’s, underscoring how the company’s focus
on sleek, touch-screen mobile devices has rearranged the
technology industry’s pecking order.  Apple’s net income exceeded total  revenue  at  Google (GOOG) ,
Apple’s largest rival in mobile operating systems, for the
period.  “Those numbers are just unimaginable,” said  Michael Obuchowski , chief investment officer at First Empire Asset
Management, which has $4 billion under management, including
Apple shares. “It’s still an extremely well-managed company and
they are showing that the product pipeline is sufficient even
now to generate growth rates that are unrivaled.”  Amazon’s Kindle  Apple wasn’t harmed by Amazon.com Inc.’s introduction of
the Kindle Fire, a tablet designed to compete against the iPad
at less than half the price. Apple sold 15.4 million iPads,
topping the 13.5 million projected by analysts.  “Everybody expected the Kindle Fire to affect their
sales,” said  Carl Howe , an analyst at the Yankee Group in
 Boston . “All evidence shows it had none.”  Apple has accumulated $97.6 billion in cash and
investments, money it’s “actively” discussing how to use,
Chief Financial Officer Peter Oppenheimer said on a conference
call yesterday. That could include  supply-chain  investments,
acquisitions or other expenditures, he said.  The recent period was the first full quarter since Cook
took over in August, when Jobs stepped down, six weeks before
his death. Jobs co-founded the company with  Steve Wozniak  in
1976.  “This shows that the business model has lasting momentum
without  Steve Jobs ,” said  Keith Goddard , CEO of Capital
Advisors Inc. in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , whose firm manages more than
$13 million in Apple shares.  Microsoft, Intel  Apple’s report contrasted with those of companies such as
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC) , which are grappling with slower
personal-computer sales in part because customers are choosing
to buy smartphones and tablets like the iPad instead. While
Microsoft and Intel are benefiting from business demand for
servers and software, they’re playing catch-up in the consumer
arena by rolling out new mobile products, including Microsoft’s
Windows 8 operating system, designed to integrate more smoothly
with smartphones and tablets.  Rival smartphone makers also have struggled to keep pace
with Apple.  HTC Corp. (2498)  and  Motorola Mobility Holdings Corp. (MMI) , two
of the biggest companies whose devices run Google’s Android
operating system, disappointed investors with results for their
most recent quarters. Research In Motion Ltd., which has lost 90
percent of its market value since June 2008, replaced its co-
CEOs this week.  IPhone Demand  Holiday iPhone demand helped Apple gain market share on
manufacturers including Samsung and HTC. In December, about  45
percent  of U.S. shoppers who bought a smartphone in the previous
three months said they purchased an iPhone, up from 25 percent
in a study done two months earlier, according to Nielsen Co.
Android phones were selected by 47 percent of buyers, down from
62 percent.  Cook said Apple couldn’t manufacture iPhones fast enough
and that the record number announced yesterday could have been
bigger.  Competitors also haven’t been able to match the success of
the iPad, with Apple controlling 62 percent of the  tablet market 
in the third quarter, according to researcher IDC.  The popularity of the iPad and iPhone has also buoyed sales
of Apple’s lineup of Mac computers. The company sold a record
5.2 million Macs in the first quarter, up from 4.9 million in
the previous period.  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ)  had revenue of $32.1 billion in its most
recent quarter, which ended in October. The Palo Alto,
California-based computer maker will report fiscal first-quarter
results next month.  On the call yesterday, Cook was asked to assess his early
months at the helm.  “You can see our results,” Cook said. “The team is doing
a fantastic job. We feel very good about where we are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  