-- Argentine Corn, Soy Crops Get Overnight Rain After Drought
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-01-24T15:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/argentine-corn-soy-crops-get-overnight-rain-after-drought-1-.html
Rain in  Argentina ’s main corn and
soybean-producing regions overnight helped relieve crops that
are parched after months of dry weather, said Tomas Parenti, an
agronomist at the Rosario Cereals Exchange.  Precipitation was “relatively abundant” over the main
growing regions in the provinces of Cordoba, Santa Fe and  Buenos
Aires , reaching levels of as much as 50 millimeters (2 inches),
Parenti said by telephone from Rosario today. Dry weather is
expected for the rest of the week after more rain today, he
said.  “It’s a significant amount of rain, which is reassuring,”
Parenti said. “It’s the sort of rain that’s needed to sustain
production.”  The La Nina pattern brought dry weather across Argentina
and parts of  Brazil  and  Mexico  in the past two months. The
government of Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
has declared an agriculture emergency in provinces including
Cordoba, Santa Cruz and Chubut.  Corn for March delivery dropped 0.4 percent to $6.175 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 7:15 a.m. today, while
soybeans for March declined 0.6 percent to $12.1075 a bushel.  While yesterday’s rain brought relief, some of the corn
that was badly affected by the drought won’t recover, Parenti
said. Some areas received less than 20 millimeters of rain or
none at all, he said.  Agriculture Minister Norberto Yauhar yesterday earmarked 5
million pesos ($1.2 million) for producers in  Santa Fe  most
affected by the drought. The funds are part of a 15 million-peso
package to be paid in three installments for the province, which
declared an agricultural emergency, the ministry said in an e-
mailed statement late yesterday.  Argentina is the world’s second-biggest corn exporter after
the U.S., and the third-biggest soybean shipper after the U.S.
and Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in Buenos Aires at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  