-- Arrowhawk’s Litt Sees Massive Shift to Equities Within 12 Months
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-24T23:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/arrowhawk-s-litt-sees-massive-shift-to-equities-within-12-months.html
Michael Litt, the chief investment
officer of Arrowhawk Capital Partners, said U.S. investors will
make a “massive” shift out of bonds and into stocks within the
next 12 months.  “Within this time frame, you will see the inflection point
between those two asset classes,” Litt said today at the
Bloomberg Sovereign Debt Crisis Conference in  New York , hosted
by Bloomberg Link.  One potential reason for the  bull market  in equities is the
rising supply of natural gas within the U.S., thanks to new
drilling techniques, Litt said. Once U.S. companies convert
their equipment to run on natural gas rather than gasoline and
petroleum, they will have a competitive advantage over rivals in
other parts of the world, he said.  “We are in the driver’s seat in terms of  energy
efficiency , we just have yet to take advantage of it,” Litt
said.  Arrowhawk, based in Darien,  Connecticut , has about $575
million of assets under management. Litt, previously a partner
at Frontpoint Partners LLC, started the firm in 2008.  China  may also present investment opportunities now that
the government has gotten inflation under control, said John
Brynjolfsson, the managing director of Armored Wolf LLC, who
also participated on a panel at the conference. Brynjolfsson
said he is “pretty confident” that growth in China’s gross
domestic product will have an 8 percent floor in the future.  Litt said that his firm “covered our shorts” in China
during November and December. Investors use short sales to bet
an asset will decline in value and then cover or close out the
trade when they think asset values probably won’t decline much
further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  