-- Larsen & Toubro Rises to 2-Month High After RBI Cuts Ratio: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-01-24T11:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/larsen-rises-to-2-month-high-after-rbi-cuts-ratio-mumbai-mover.html
Larsen & Toubro Ltd .,  India ’s
biggest builder of power networks and airports, jumped the most
in more than 11 months after the central bank cut a reserve
requirement for lenders to help boost economic growth.  Larsen  advanced  5.8 percent, the most since Feb. 14, to
1,351.85 rupees at close of trading in Mumbai. The stock is
headed for its best monthly rally since May 2009. The benchmark
BSE India Sensitive Index  gained  1.5 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  of India today unexpectedly reduced the
amount of deposits banks must set aside as reserves by 50 basis
points, and signaled it may cut  interest rates  in future. Lower
rates will help engineering and construction companies reduce
borrowing costs.  “A 50 basis points cut will lead to a situation where
companies like L&T will have greater operational leverage in
terms of cost of funds,” said Jyotsna Sawdekar, an analyst at
Jaypee Capital Services Ltd. in  Mumbai . “It’s a very positive
indication.”  Larsen yesterday reiterated its new orders will rise by 5
percent in the current fiscal year after announcing an 18
percent increase in third-quarter profit. The company said it
plans to boost  business  in the hydrocarbon and infrastructure
industries in the  Middle East  and Southeast Asia as higher costs
and a slowing economy affected projects at home.  The company, based in Mumbai, expects to win orders worth
300 billion rupees ($6 billion) in the  fourth quarter , Chief
Financial Officer R. Shankar Raman said yesterday. Sales in the
year ending March 31 may expand as much as 25 percent, he said.  Financial Investments  New contracts in the third quarter gained 28 percent to 171
billion rupees, Larsen said in a statement.  Profit (LT)  for the
period was also boosted by gains from the company’s revenue from
sources other than operations including financial investments,
which surged 79 percent.  The  BSE India Capital Goods (BSETCG)  Index lost 48 percent of its
value last year as a record run of interest-rate increases by
the central bank boosted borrowing costs for companies. Larsen
declined 50 percent during the year. The index rose as much as
3.3 percent today.  The central bank has “acknowledged that slowing growth
needs to be addressed,” Raman said in a telephone interview
from Mumbai today. “Hopefully, the RBI will continue with some
more measures for monetary easing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  