-- Art Investors Lured by 12% Return Offer by $80 Million Fund
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-01-24T14:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/art-investors-lured-by-12-return-promise-from-80-million-fund.html
Investors are being invited to join
a European-based group that plans to buy about $80 million worth
of art and forecasts annual returns of 12 percent.  The Art Collection Fund will acquire high-quality modern,
contemporary and even tribal works over a four-year period. The
pieces will be sold after six years, or earlier, through private
sales and auctions, the Luxembourg-based company said in an e-
mailed statement.  “The fund is aimed at people who want to invest in art and
who haven’t time to be collectors,” the fund’s founder and
chief executive, Stanislas Gokelaere, 43, said in an interview.
“We want to educate them and bring them close to this world.”  Investors are diversifying after returns declined from
financial markets and real estate. Still, some funds that look
to art as an alternative asset class have struggled to raise
money or prove themselves as consistent providers of returns. In
2009, New York-based  Skate’s Art Market Research  delayed a
review of such vehicles after several failed to achieve their
target capitalization.  Gokelaere, a former head of mergers and acquisitions at the
brewer InBev, is an established French collector of tribal art,
as well as of modern and contemporary works. Bernard Steyaert
and Florence de Botton, former European-based executives at
 Christie’s International (CHRS) , are the other members of the team.  Avoiding Bubbles  “We’ll be buying blue-chip works priced between 100,000
euros ($130,400) and 3.5 million euros,” Gokelaere said. “We
won’t acquire cutting-edge pieces and we’ll be concentrating on
slightly lesser-known names that appreciate in a slower,
stronger way. We want to avoid bubbles.”  Works by second-tier abstract expressionists  Joan Mitchell 
and  Arshile Gorky  were suggested as possible investments.  About 65 percent of the collection will be devoted to
modern and contemporary art, Gokelaere said. Participants will
be able to borrow and live with works equivalent to the value of
their commitments.  The minimum investment in the fund, scheduled to open
formally in April, is 500,000 euros. Investors will be charged 2
percent per annum management fees and 20 percent of the net
proceeds.  So far, the fund has attracted unconfirmed commitments of
about 10 million euros -- half the targeted first closing --from
investors in  Belgium ,  Switzerland , Luxembourg,  Italy  and the
U.K., according to Gokelaere. The total target capitalization is
60 million euros.  Price Rises  The international market for art-investment funds was worth
an estimated $960 million last year, up from $760 million in
2010, according to a report by Deloitte Luxembourg and the
London-based research company  ArtTactic  published in December
last year. The industry is relatively small compared stocks and
 hedge funds .  Institutional investors continue to be wary of art, citing
the market’s lack of liquidity and transparency, as well as its
high transaction costs and volatility. Some wealthy individuals
are more positive about the model after dramatic price rises for
certain names since the low of 2009 after the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   A private collector entered eight abstracts by  Gerhard Richter  for auction at  Sotheby’s (BID)  New York in November 2011. All
sold above their high estimates, with a 1997 “Abstraktes Bild”
in purple, red and blue fetching a record $20.8 million. The
buyer --  Lily Safra , widow of Brazilian banker Edmond Safra --
donated it to the Israel Museum.  Contemporary Surge  Sales at Sotheby’s and Christie’s evening auctions of
contemporary art surged to $1.7 billion in 2011, an increase of
35 percent on the previous year.  “The climate for funds is as favorable as it’s been for
some time,”  Anders Petterson , founder of ArtTactic, said. “The
sense that art is an asset class is gaining momentum. The funds
are now being tuned to be part of the ecosystem rather than a
parasite. They give wealthy people the opportunity to be part of
the lifestyle.”  About 25 such investment vehicles, mostly based in  China ,
came to market in the first half of 2011, according to the
Deloitte report. These include the Brazil-based Golden Art Fund.  Freeport Plan  Luxembourg is an emerging hub of such investment.
Gokelaere’s Art Collection Fund will join similar vehicles
devoted to wine, watches and jewelry run by  Elite Advisers  in
the country’s low-tax economy. Fine Art Transports Natural Le
Coultre SA, a Swiss-based company specializing in the storage
and shipping of artworks, is planning to open a Freeport there
in 2014.  “This is the back office part of the art world,”
Gokelaere said. “It’s something that Luxembourg consciously
wants to develop.  London  and  New York  will remain the front.”  Investors are trying to beat returns from financial 
markets. The  FTSE 100 Index , which includes the 100 biggest 
companies that trade on the London stock exchange, fell 5.6 
percent last year after posting gains of 9 percent and 22 
percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Information:  http://www.artcollectionfund.com/   (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 