-- Stocks Drop on Greek Debt-Swap Stalemate as Commodities, Euro Erase Losses
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-01-24T21:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/asia-stocks-gain-a-sixth-day-as-new-zealand-dollar-oil-advance-on-europe.html
Stocks (SXXP)  fell, dragging U.S. and
European benchmark indexes down from almost six-month highs, as
talks over Greek debt restructuring reached a stalemate. The
euro and commodities recovered from earlier declines.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.1 percent to close
at 1,314.65, halting a  five-day  rally, and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  slid 33.07 points to 12,675.75.  S&P 500 
futures rose after normal trading hours, climbing 0.3 percent as
of 4:44 p.m. in New York, following better-than-estimated
results at  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  The euro recovered from early declines to
increase 0.1 percent $1.3027, near its highest level of 2012.
The S&P GSCI Index of commodities reversed early losses.
Treasuries were little changed after a $35 billion auction.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for the
global economy as  Europe  slips into a recession and growth cools
in  China  and  India . Finance ministers balked at putting up more
public money for  Greece  and called on bondholders to provide
greater debt relief, spurring concern the nation may fail to
make a March 20 bond payment. S&P would consider any debt relief
being negotiated as a default, according to  John Chambers ,
managing director of sovereign ratings.  A potential Greek default would be “uncatastrophic,”
 Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in  New
York , which oversees $1.3 billion, told Bloomberg Television.
“There would be a bad, short, sharp reaction by the market, and
then we’d all get on with it. There’s going to be a deep loss
suffered by the private holders of Greek debt whether you have a
deal or default.”  Retreat From July High  The S&P 500 retreated from the highest level since July
after yesterday extending its rebound from its 2011 low to
almost 20 percent. Earnings-per-share  topped estimates  at about
65 percent of the 74 companies in the S&P 500 that released
results from Jan. 9 through the start of trading today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show, even as profit has decreased 7.5
percent for the group.  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  tumbled 3.8 percent to lead losses in the
Dow today after the insurer’s fourth-quarter profit fell 31
percent on lower investment income and a smaller benefit
reserve. McDonald’s Corp. slid 2.2 percent as the restaurant
chain said foreign-currency fluctuations will cut 2012 profit.
Verizon Communications Inc. retreated 1.6 percent after posting
a quarterly loss.  Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of New York Mellon Corp. paced
losses among the largest U.S. banks, dropping more than 1
percent each.  Zions Bancorporation (ZION)  tumbled 7.6 percent for the
biggest loss in the S&P 500 as the Salt Lake City-based bank was
cut to “hold” from “buy” at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. after
yesterday reporting earnings-per-share that missed the average
analyst estimate by 23 percent.  Earnings Season  Apple reported record quarterly sales and profit, topping
analysts’ estimates, as holiday purchases of the new iPhone
helped the company steer clear of a consumer spending slump that
has hurt rival technology companies. Fiscal first-quarter
earnings more than doubled to $13.1 billion, or $13.87 a share,
and sales climbed 73 percent to $46.3 billion.  The  Federal Reserve  began a two-day policy meeting, with an
announcement on  interest rates  and the outlook for the economy
expected tomorrow.  Ten-year Treasury note yields increased one basis point to
2.06 percent, the highest on a closing basis since Dec. 9. Two-
year yields were little changed at 0.24 percent.  European  Stocks (SXXP)   Three shares dropped for every one that gained in the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index  as the regional benchmark lost 0.4 percent to
trim its 2012 gain to 4.7 percent. Societe Generale SA and
Credit Agricole SA paced losses in financial shares, retreating
more than 4 percent. Royal KPN NV sank 7.2 percent to a six-year
low as the largest Dutch phone company predicted lower 2012
profit and  cash flow .  The yield on Spain’s two-year note fell seven basis points
to 3.11 percent as the government sold 2.51 billion euros ($3.3
billion) of three- and six-month bills, meeting the maximum
target for the sale. Italy’s 10-year yield increased six basis
points to 6.17 percent after reaching a six-week low yesterday.  European officials may have to weigh a Greek default that
triggers credit default swaps if no voluntary deal with
creditors is struck in time, said  Marco Buti , head of the
European Commission’s economics division.  If talks on private-sector involvement yield a deal quickly
that draws “very large participation,” then “we will not need
to trigger the CDS,” Buti said, speaking to the European
Parliament’s committee on economic and monetary affairs in
Brussels today.  IMF Forecasts  The IMF lowered its estimate for global growth this year to
3.3 percent from a September forecast of 4 percent. The
expansion next year will be 3.9 percent, down from 4.5 percent.
The euro area may enter a “mild recession” in 2012 as it
shrinks 0.5 percent. The U.S. outlook was unchanged at 1.8
percent growth, the fund said.  Natural gas climbed 1.1 percent to $2.554 per million
British thermal units on speculation a supply glut will ease.
The fuel surged 7.8 percent surge yesterday after Chesapeake
Energy Corp. said it will cut production following a slump in
prices. Oil declined 0.6 percent to $98.95 a barrel.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 0.2 percent after
rallying for five straight days as declines in eastern Europe
and Africa offset gains in India.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, jumped 1.5
percent to the highest level since Nov. 14 after the central
bank reduced its cash  reserve ratio  to 5.5 percent from 6
percent, the first cut to the amount of cash banks must put
aside since 2009. Policy makers left borrowing costs unchanged,
while signaling future interest-rate cuts were possible.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  