-- Asia to Boost West African Crude Imports on Cheaper Brent, China Demand
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-01-25T08:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/asia-to-boost-west-african-crude-imports-on-cheaper-brent-china.html
Asian refineries will boost their
imports of West African  crude oil  for loading in February to the
highest in at least seven months amid cheaper Atlantic Basin
grades and rising demand in China.  Shipments totaling 62.4 million barrels, or 2.15 million
barrels a day, will be exported from  Angola ,  Nigeria , the
Republic of Congo, the  Democratic Republic  of Congo,  Equatorial
Guinea  and Gabon, according to a survey of six traders and an
analysis of loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News. That’s
18 percent more than the revised 1.83 million barrels a day
scheduled for this month.  Refiners in Asia can buy Middle Eastern crude or West
African grades and their choice normally depends on the value of
the lighter, low-sulfur, or sweet, blends from Angola and
Nigeria versus heavier, high-sulfur, or sour, grades from  Saudi
Arabia  and Iran. Lighter crude yields more lucrative products
such as diesel and gasoline.  The spread between European and Middle East grades has been
narrowing over the past month after the U.S. and European Union
imposed tougher sanctions on  Iran . The moves came at a time when
supply of sweet crude increased in the Atlantic Basin with the
resumption of Libyan exports.  “With the return of  Libya  crude and the closure of
refineries in the U.S. and  Europe , the Atlantic Basin has to
push some barrels out and that is seen through the weaker Brent-
Dubai spread,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of the research
group Petromatrix GmbH in the Zug.,  Switzerland  said on Jan. 20
in an e-mail.  Brent-Dubai Spread  Libya will be pumping 1.2 million barrels a day more of oil
than a year ago by the middle of the year and refinery halts
will remove 1.8 million barrels of crude processing capacity in
Europe and the U.S., according to Petromatrix.  The  Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps , which measures the
European benchmark against the Persian Gulf grade, reached a 14-
month low of $2.32 a barrel on Jan. 16, according to data from
PVM Oil Associates. It was at $2.62 today. Traders make more
profit from shipping West African crude to Asia when the spread
between the two contracts shrinks.  Chinese refiners will import 37 cargoes, the most in at
least seven months, compared with 30 for January, the survey
showed.  China  International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp.,
known as Unipec, bought 28 lots, eight more than this month.  China’s imports of crude may accelerate to a record this
year as the world’s second-biggest oil user bolsters emergency
stockpiles and expands refining capacity even as the pace of
economic growth slows.  The nation may buy 9 percent more crude from overseas in
2012, according to the median estimate of seven traders and
analysts in a Bloomberg News poll on Jan. 5. China’s refining
capacity may expand by 600,000 barrels a day this year, the
survey showed.  Indian Purchases  Indian companies bought 19 shipments for February loading,
unchanged from this month, according to the survey.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, maintained
its purchases at 12 cargoes for February, including eight
shipments of Nigerian crude, the survey showed.  Asia ’s imports for January were revised up by six cargoes
to 61, after JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp.,  Japan ’s largest
refiner, bought two shipments of Gabon’s Rabi Light, while three
consignments of Rabi Blend and one Equatorial Guinea’s Aseng
will also be shipped to Asia this month, the survey showed.  Nigeria benchmark  Qua Iboe (AFCSQUA1)  was at a premium of $2.51 a
barrel to North Sea Dated Brent today, compared with an average
of $2.27 in December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s largest oil producer, plans to export
2.14 million barrels a day of crude next month while Angola will
ship 1.82 million barrels, Bloomberg calculations based on
loading programs showed.  The following tables show details of planned Asian imports.
Most cargoes are for 950,000 to 1 million barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  