-- Arab League Gets New Sense of Purpose With Syria Pressure: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-24T00:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/assad-s-fall-will-require-arab-league-and-west-to-take-the-long-view-view.html
Syria ’s rejection on Monday of an
Arab League plan calling for the country’s president, Bashar Al- Assad, to hand over power was not a surprise, and neither should
it be seen as a setback.  Rather, those hoping for an end to Syria’s bloodshed should
be heartened that the league, long a cozy club for dictators,
has found a new sense of purpose. Assad is nowhere near feeling
the sort of pressure on his regime that forced Yemen’s strongman,
Ali Abdullah Saleh, to accept a similar deal from the Gulf
Cooperation Council in November. Although it will be largely up
to the rebels within Syria to make Assad’s seat too hot to
remain in, there are several concrete steps the league, the U.S.
and the European Union can take to raise the temperature.  The Arab League suspended Syria’s membership in November
and sent a delegation of observers to verify that Assad would
make good on promises to end his regime’s military assaults,
which according to the  United Nations  have killed more than
5,000 people. Assad had no intention of backing down, and the
observers proved impotent to stop the crackdown. (The league’s
decision on Sunday to extend the mission by a month was ill
considered.)  Nevertheless, the league has succeeded in delegitimizing
Assad’s rule, in Syria and across the Arab world. Its Syria
efforts could be seen as part of a broader emerging consensus --
led by the wealthy Arab monarchies such as  Saudi Arabia  and
Qatar -- that there are red lines that the region’s absolute
rulers can no longer afford to cross. The emir of Qatar, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, has even called for an Arab military
intervention in Syria, although he received no support.  Obviously, the Persian Gulf leaders have mixed motives:
They, too, were rattled by the Arab Awakening, and feel that
peace in Syria might keep the winds of rebellion from gathering
more force. We won’t criticize them for doing the right thing,
even if it’s out of self interest. Yet they would also be wise
to step up their efforts to increase domestic political liberty,
along the lines of what King Mohammed VI of  Morocco  has achieved.
Should democracy flourish in  Egypt ,  Tunisia  and elsewhere, it
will get harder to buy the quiescence of the Gulf-state subjects.  The EU also deserves plaudits for placing an additional 22
people and eight entities on its Syria sanctions list Monday.
Over the last eight years the EU and U.S. have sanctioned scores
of Syrian individuals and companies associated with the regime,
forbidden businesses from trading in Syrian state debt, barred
imports of Syrian oil, and frozen the assets of the state
security service. More can be done.  New York ’s two senators,
 Charles Schumer  and  Kirsten Gillibrand , proposed a bill that
would block property transactions in the U.S. by Syrians
involved in the crackdown and would bar sales of  high-tech and
telecommunications  equipment that could be used for censorship
or human-rights abuses.  The U.S could also require federal contractors to certify
that they are not involved in sanctionable activity and deny
companies that do business with Syria’s energy sector access to
U.S. financial Institutions. Although Syria is a minor producer
in the global sense, oil exports provide more than 25 percent of
its government revenue. The Assad dynasty has always relied on
hard currency to ensure the support of Syria’s military and
business elite.  Aiding rebels in Syria will be much trickier than it was to
in  Libya . Russia will resist any tough UN resolutions; in fact,
it just reached a $550 million fighter-jet deal with Syria.
Syria’s relations with  Iran , and its influence in Lebanon and
ties with Hezbollah, will raise the cost and complexity of any
Western military intervention, even if the U.S. and  Europe  had
the stomach for it. Within Syria, the unrest is scattered and
lacks unified leadership -- indeed, two former officers are
reportedly in a power struggle to command the Free Syrian Army,
a force of about 20,000 deserters from Assad’s military. Still,
more humanitarian aid, intelligence and other support could be
directed to the rebels through  Turkey . It’s a perfect chance for
the Saudis and Qataris to back up their words with petrodollars.  One effect of the Arab Awakening has been to spotlight the
lack of regional cooperation in the  Middle East . As the tyrants
fall, the remaining states would be well served to focus on
building the diplomatic architecture that has enabled other
regions --  Asia , for example, through ASEAN, APEC and other
entities -- to address not just security issues but also
economic revitalization and the humanitarian crises that are
sure to develop in any time of great change. Certainly the
growing threat posed by Iran demands a strong collective
response. Perhaps, after 67 forgetful years of existence, the
 Arab League  can grow into that unifying role.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 