-- Australian Dollar Drops From 12-Week High Before Quarterly Inflation Data
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-01-24T16:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/australian-dollar-drops-from-12-week-high-on-speculation-inflation-slowing.html
Australia ’s dollar declined from the
highest level in 12 weeks on speculation a report tomorrow will
show gains in consumer prices are slowing, providing scope for
the nation’s central bank to cut interest rates.  The  New Zealand dollar  halted a two-day advance amid
forecasts the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand will keep interest
rates at a record low at a policy meeting this week. The South
Pacific nations’ currencies extended losses as European policy
makers and Greek bondholders failed to reach an agreement on a
debt-swap plan for the indebted nation, reducing risk appetite.  “Without the pressure of inflation, interest rates have
scope to come down,” said Derek Mumford, a director in Sydney
at Rochford Capital, a currency-risk management company. “I
think the RBNZ will adjust their rhetoric to suggest that they
will cut rates if needed. It could take a little bit of edge
off” the  New Zealand  dollar, he said.  Australia’s dollar declined 0.6 percent to $1.0462 at 11:07
a.m. in  New York  after yesterday touching $1.0573, the highest
since Oct. 31. The so-called Aussie also rose 0.3 percent to
81.30 yen, rising for a sixth day.  New Zealand’s dollar dropped 0.2 percent to 80.86 U.S.
cents from 81.01 yesterday, when it reached 81.42, also the
highest since Oct. 31. It strengthened 0.7 percent to 62.84 yen.  Australia’s consumer prices climbed 0.2 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three-month period, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Bureau of
Statistics report tomorrow. That compares with a 0.6 percent
gain in the third quarter.  Consumer Prices  An index of Australian leading economic indicators fell 0.3
percent to 128 in November, the New York-based Conference Board
said in an e-mailed statement today. That follows a revised
increase of 0.5 percent the previous month.  A Statistics New Zealand report on Jan. 19 showed consumer
prices in the country declined 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter
from the previous three-month period, when they advanced 0.4
percent. All 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the
RBNZ to keep interest rates unchanged at 2.5 percent at the
policy meeting on Jan. 26.  European finance ministers meeting in Brussels signaled
they would push  Greece ’s private investors to accept bigger
losses after  Charles Dallara , managing director of the  Institute
of International Finance , made what he described as the
bondholders’ “maximum” offer. Euro-area governments are
seeking to fill a deeper-than-expected hole in Greece’s finances
by saddling investors with a lower  interest rate  on exchanged
bonds, setting up a confrontation before a European Union summit
on Jan. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  