-- Nadal Sets Up Federer Match at Australian Open
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-24T13:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/azarenka-defeats-radwanska-to-reach-australian-open-women-s-semifinals.html
Rafael Nadal  fought back to beat
Tomas Berdych in four sets and set up an Australian Open
semifinal against  Roger Federer , their first final-four meeting
at a Grand Slam tennis tournament in seven years.  Nadal, the No. 2 seed from  Spain , won 6-7 (5-7), 7-6 (8-6),
6-4, 6-3 to reach the semifinals at Melbourne Park for the first
time since 2009, when the 10-time major winner took the title
with a five-set victory over Federer.  “I resisted very well in the third and the fourth sets
after three hours of intense battle,” Nadal said in a televised
court-side interview after beating No. 7 seed Berdych in 4
hours, 16 minutes. “I’m very happy how I finished my match
physically. It was very important to keep running with high
intensity and that’s very important on these kind of matches.”  Federer of  Switzerland  beat No. 11 seed Juan Martin Del Potro of  Argentina  in straight sets in his 1,000th career
singles match earlier yesterday. Women’s defending champion  Kim Clijsters  of  Belgium  and third-seeded Belarusian Victoria Azarenka advanced to a semifinal meeting.  Nadal spent more than two hours more on court than Federer
in his quarterfinal, with the first two sets alone taking nearly
2 1/2 hours. The match finished at midnight local time.  After the first set, Nadal started to move in closer during
Berdych’s serve.  “I was trying to find a solution because I felt in the
first two sets I didn’t have a lot of chances to play a lot of
points when he was serving,” Nadal said.  Opening Set  Berdych took the opening set in 75 minutes after Nadal had
saved four set points to take it to a tiebreaker. The Czech
bought up his fifth set point with a forehand that Nadal wasn’t
allowed to challenge because the chair umpire said he’d waited
too long and then wrapped up the tie-breaker with an ace.  The second set went to another tie-breaker, which Berdych
was one point away from winning when he put a volley wide. Nadal
took the next two points to pull even and recovered from 0-2
down in the third set, which he secured with an overhead volley
that prompted him a loud roar of celebration.  The Spaniard crunched a running forehand pass down the line
to break in the next game and held for a 2-0 lead to take
control of the fourth set.  Federer, 30, who has won a men’s record 16 Grand Slam
singles titles, fired 38 winners in his 6-4, 6-3, 6-2 victory
against  Del Potro  to reach the semifinals in Melbourne for a
record-extending ninth straight year.  2005 Meeting  For the first time since the 2005  French Open , Federer and
10-time major champion Nadal are on the same side of the draw at
a Grand Slam, meaning only one of them can reach the Jan. 29
final. Federer said after beating Del Potro that he wanted to
play Nadal in the semifinals.  “It’s been a long time,” Federer told reporters. “We
have been on opposite sides of the draw many times. I’d like to
play Rafa because of our great epic match earlier in the finals
here a few years ago. I’d like to get a chance to play him again
here.”  Federer took the first set with his second break of service
when Del Potro double-faulted on set point, and broke again in
the fourth game of the second set with a half-volleyed backhand
winner down the line. He saved four break points when trying to
serve out the set before holding for a two-set lead.  Federer went 2-0 up in the third set and manufactured his
fifth service break to earn the right to serve for a semifinal
spot, converting on his first match point with a backhand
winner.  Clijsters Win  Clijsters earlier knocked  Caroline Wozniacki  out of the
WTA’s No. 1 ranking by beating the Dane 6-3, 7-6 (7-4) to set up
a final-four matchup against Azarenka.  Clijsters, who saved four match points and overcame an
ankle injury againstLi Na of  China  in the previous round,
overpowered Wozniacki to extend her record in quarterfinals at
 Melbourne  Park to 7-0. She hit 39 winners, three times as many
as her opponent, as the temperature reached 35 degrees (95
degrees Fahrenheit).  “It was so hot out there, I think one of the toughest
conditions I’ve ever played in,” Clijsters told reporters. “It
was good to win that in two sets at the end.”  Clijsters is seeking her fifth major title to start what
she has said probably will be her final season on the tour.  The Belgian took the opening set with a forehand pass on
her fourth set point after a nine-minute game. After squandering
two breaks of service in the second set, Clijsters got to 5-4 in
the tiebreaker and wrapped up the victory with two forehand
winners.  Wozniacki’s loss means she’ll lose the No. 1 ranking, with
Azarenka,  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  and Petra Kvitova of the
 Czech Republic  all having a chance to take the top spot.  “We are just in January,” Wozniacki said. “In the end of
the year you see who has played the best, most consistently all
year round. I will get it back eventually.”  Azarenka earlier fought back to beat No. 8 Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland 6-7 (0-7), 6-0, 6-2 and reach the final four
of a major for the second time after Wimbledon last year.  “It was very important to see how I could adjust after not
playing really well in the first set,” Azarenka said after
lifting her winning streak in 2012 to 10 matches. “I completely
turned it around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  