-- Baker Hughes Says Fracking Shortages Hurt Profit Margin
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-01-24T18:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/baker-hughes-says-fracking-shortages-hurt-profit-margin-1-.html
Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , the world’s
third-largest oilfield services provider, said fourth-quarter
profit margin declined because it wasn’t prepared for the
explosion in hydraulic-fracturing demand in  North America .  A shortage of materials to carry out the oil and natural-
gas production method caused Baker Hughes’s North America
operating  profit  margin to drop to 15 percent in the fourth
quarter, compared to 22 percent a year earlier, the Houston-
based company said today.  The technique, also known as fracking, pumps millions of
gallons of water down a well along with sand and chemicals to
crack the underground rock and free the oil and gas. Producers
boosted spending last year on global fracking services by 63
percent to $31 billion, according to Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
 Spears & Associates Inc. , an industry consultant.  “We’ve experienced a variety of cost and efficiency
challenges associated with ramping demand,” Baker Hughes Chief
Executive Officer Martin Craighead told analysts today on a
conference call. “There are significant shortages of specific
sizes and qualities of proppants, gels and other materials.”  Baker Hughes was late to procure necessary fracking
materials and logistics, Craighead said. BJ Services, which it
bought in 2010, wasn’t “set up to scale up” in response to
demand, he said. The supply chain problem was unique to the
company and not a “market-driven issue,” he said.  Spending on U.S. fracking is expected to grow another 19
percent to $37 billion this year, Spears said in a Jan. 19
presentation.  Fourth-Quarter Profit  Baker Hughes reported fourth-quarter net income declined
6.3 percent to $314 million, or 72 cents a share, from $335
million, or 77 cents, a year earlier, according to a statement
today. Excluding costs associated with no longer using the BJ
Services name, the company missed by 10 cents the average of 31
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 22
percent to $5.4 billion.  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  are the two largest
oilfield-services companies. Halliburton said yesterday its
North American operating margin was reduced by the cost of
shifting crews from gas to oil basins. Baker Hughes had those
costs as well, Craighead said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston  at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  