-- Bank Foreclosure Deal Reviewed by States as Delaware Drops Out of Talks
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/bank-foreclosure-deal-reviewed-by-states-as-delaware-drops-out.html
State  attorneys general  reviewed a
proposed settlement with banks over foreclosure and mortgage-
servicing practices that negotiators are pressing to complete as
 Delaware  said it would reject a deal said to total $25 billion.  Representatives of Democratic attorney general offices met
at a Chicago hotel yesterday to discuss the negotiated terms and
ask questions, said Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller . Miller,
who is helping to lead talks, said an agreement with the banks
is getting closer.  “There are still issues to be worked out,” Miller said in
an interview. “This is one step along the way, and it was a
very productive day.”  State and federal officials have been negotiating a
settlement with the five largest mortgage servicers --  Bank of
America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial Inc (ALLY) . Talks were triggered by
disclosures that the companies were using faulty documents in
seizing homes.  The $25 billion deal would fund loan principal writedowns
for homeowners and provide refinancings, a person familiar with
the matter said before yesterday’s meeting. The proposal also
sets requirements for how the banks conduct home foreclosures.
The settlement would drop to $19 billion if  California  Attorney
General Kamala Harris decides not to sign on, the person said.  Delaware Out  Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  won’t sign on to the
proposed agreement as drafted, Delaware Deputy Attorney General
Ian McConnel said in a phone interview. He declined to comment
on the reason for Biden’s decision.  Biden has been among a group of attorneys general,
including  New York ’s Eric Schneiderman and Harris in California,
who have said any settlement shouldn’t protect banks from claims
that haven’t been fully investigated, such as claims stemming
from the packaging of mortgages into securities sold to
investors.  Shum Preston, a spokesman for Harris, declined to comment
on whether the state would agree to the deal. In September,
Harris called a proposed deal with the banks inadequate, saying
it would allow too few California homeowners to stay in their
homes. Harris, who is conducting her own investigation into bank
mortgage practices, also raised concerns about the scope of the
liability releases that would be given to banks as part of any
deal, protecting them from state and federal lawsuits.  California Investigation  “Attorney General Harris has consistently and repeatedly
expressed concern about protecting her ability to investigate
wrongdoing in the mortgage arena, and that remains a key lens
through which she will evaluate any proposals,” Preston said.  Schneiderman, Biden and  Nevada ’s Catherine Cortez Masto are
also conducting mortgage investigations. Massachusetts Attorney
General  Martha Coakley  has sued the five banks involved in the
talks.  States weren’t asked at the Chicago meeting to vote on
whether to join the settlement, Miller said. He declined to
comment on whether there is a deadline to vote or when a final
agreement might be reached.  “We have not yet reached an agreement with the nation’s
five largest servicers, and we won’t reach a settlement any time
this week,” Miller said in a statement yesterday.  Shaun Donovan, secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development, also attended the Chicago meeting.
Republican attorneys general were scheduled to separately
discuss the settlement by phone yesterday.  About a dozen proStesters gathered at the hotel while the
meeting was taking place behind closed doors, chanting “No
sweetheart deals” and “Protect our homes.”  Shani Smith, 36, of Chicago was among the protesters.
Smith, who has been trying to get a loan modification for her
mortgage, said she wanted to speak with Illinois Attorney
General Lisa Madigan about the accord. They were forced to leave
the building.  “We will not settle for a weak settlement,” said Smith,
who called the monetary component of the deal “a drop in the
bucket.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in Chicago at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  