-- Bank of Japan Cuts Growth Forecasts for Fiscal 2012 as Global Growth Slows
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-01-24T03:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/bank-of-japan-cuts-economic-growth-forecasts-keeps-key-rates-unchanged.html
The  Bank of Japan  cut its growth
outlook for the year starting in April while keeping its zero-
interest rate policy as  Europe ’s debt crisis reduced global
demand and keep the yen strong.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and fellow board members
lowered the economic forecast to 2 percent from an October
estimate of 2.2 percent for fiscal 2012. The central bank
maintained its projection for consumer prices to rise 0.1
percent, according to its statement released in Tokyo today.  The revisions reflect growing BOJ concern that the European
debt crisis will slow exports and keep the yen near near a
record high, cutting into corporate profits. Shirakawa has said
the European situation is the biggest threat, and analysts
including Naka Matsuzawa said he may not take further easing
steps unless the turmoil widens significantly.  “The BOJ sees European credit crunch as the biggest
risk,” Matsuzawa, chief investment strategist at Nomura
Securities in Tokyo, said before the statement was released.
“It won’t take further easing steps until the problem
reignites.”  The central bank kept its asset-buying fund at 20 trillion
yen ($260 billion), and its credit-lending program at 35
trillion yen, it said in the statement. The benchmark interest
rate was held in a range of zero to 0.1 percent. The unanimous
decisions were in line with predictions of all 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘Flat’  “ Japan ’s economic activity has been more or less flat,
mainly due to the effects of a slowdown in overseas economies
and the appreciation of the yen,” the BOJ said. “Growth
prospects for fiscal 2012 and 2013 will likely remain broadly
unchanged because the economy is expected to gradually return to
a moderate recovery path in the first half” of the year
starting April 1, it said.  GDP will probably expand 1.6 percent in the year starting
April 2013, when consumer prices will increase 0.5 percent, the
central bank said, little changed from their October
projections. In the year ending this March, the economy will
contract 0.4 percent and prices will decline 0.1 percent, both
lower than initially anticipated, the BOJ said in a statement.  “There is no sign for us as we look at the Japanese
economy and the state of inflation to think that the Bank of
Japan will do anything other than keep  interest rates  at zero
for another two to three” years at least,  Allen Sinai , co-
founder and president of Decision Economics Inc. in  New York ,
said last week. “Zero-interest rates as far as you can see,
which is a long way out, and expansion of the balance sheet.”  ‘Ideal’ Rate  Toyota Motor Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Akio Toyoda  said
on Jan. 5 the “ideal”  exchange rate  is 90 yen to the dollar
after the  Asia ’s largest automaker cut its profit forecast by
more than half in December.  The yen traded at 77.03 per dollar as of 12:52 p.m. after
it reached postwar high of 75.35 on Oct. 31. It rose to an 11-
year high of 97.04 per euro on Jan. 16.  The  World Bank  cut its global economic outlook last week to
2.5 percent growth this year from a June estimate of 3.6
percent, citing risks of a widening euro-area crisis. Japan’s
economy was forecast to expand 1.9 percent in 2012, slower than
a prior estimate of 2.6 percent growth, the World Bank said Jan.
17.  Economists predict a report tomorrow will show exports
declined for a third month in December. Consumer prices
excluding fresh food fell 0.2 percent in November from a year
earlier, a report showed last month, undescoring Japan’s
struggle to overcome decades of deflation.  The Bank of Japan has pledged to keep benchmark rates
unchanged until it sees sustained signs of inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  