-- Bank Tejarat Banned by U.S., EU in Move Stifling Iran Trade
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-01-24T05:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/bank-tejarat-banned-by-u-s-eu-in-move-stifling-iran-s-trade.html
The U.S. and European Union took
steps to cut off from the international financial system Bank
Tejarat, the last institution financing high-volume exports and
imports between  Iran  and Europe.  The coordinated actions will have consequences for tens of
billions of dollars in legitimate and illicit trade.  The  U.S. Treasury  Department yesterday designated Bank
Tejarat, Iran’s third-largest bank, for providing financial
services to the country’s banks and companies that are under
international sanctions for involvement in Iran’s nuclear and
missile proliferation. Financial institutions anywhere in the
world that do business with the bank risk being cut off
themselves from the U.S. financial system.  The action “strikes at one of Iran’s few remaining access
points to the international financial system,” Treasury
Undersecretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence David S. Cohen said in a statement. The move “will deepen Iran’s
financial isolation, make its access to hard currency even more
tenuous and further impair Iran’s ability to finance its illicit
nuclear program.”  EU foreign ministers yesterday in Brussels agreed to freeze
the assets of Bank Tejarat’s European branch in Paris. The
specific provisions were issued early today in the Official
Journal in Brussels.  Stepped-Up Campaign  The targeting of Bank Tejarat is the latest salvo in a
stepped-up campaign by the U.S. and EU to persuade Iran to
abandon suspected efforts to gain a nuclear weapons capability,
and the action may have even more significant consequences than
an EU oil embargo approved yesterday.  The EU is Iran’s principal trading partner, according to
European Commission figures. The EU exported 11.3 billion euros
($14.6 billion) in goods to Iran in 2010, led by machinery,
transportation equipment such as cars, and chemicals. Iran
exported 14.5 billion euros ($18.8 billion) in goods to the 27-
member region the same year, with fuel and minerals at the top
of the list.  EU foreign ministers announced yesterday they will ban oil
imports from Iran starting July 1, freeze European assets held
by the Central Bank of Iran, and ban trade in gold, precious
metals, diamonds and petrochemical products from Iran. The EU is
collectively the No. 2 buyer of Iranian crude, taking 18 percent
of Iran’s exports.  Nuclear Program  The UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency raised
questions in a Nov. 8 report about possible military dimensions
of  Iran’s nuclear program . The report set in motion a series of
actions by the U.S. and European allies in an effort to force
Tehran’s leadership back to nuclear negotiations. Iran says its
nuclear program is for civilian energy and medical research.  The EU asset freeze on Bank Tejarat includes a provision
allowing for a two-month delay on a “case-by-case” basis for
existing trade contracts, according to the new EU sanctions
regulations. No one answered the telephone at the bank’s Paris
office.  Bank Tejarat  has almost 2,000 offices throughout Iran,
as well as foreign branches in Paris and Dushanbe, Tajikistan,
according to the U.S. Treasury.  The EU asset freeze will complicate tens of billions of
dollars in legal trade with  Europe  and monetary transactions by
EU diplomatic missions in Tehran, according to EU diplomats,
trade lawyers and consultants.  ‘Burying Their Heads’  “A number of EU exporters today are burying their heads in
their hands, bemoaning the fact that, as they try to come out of
a recession fighting to win orders for legitimate exports to
Iran, their hands are being tightened further behind their
backs,” Nigel Kushner, chief executive officer of Whale Rock
Legal, a London law firm specialized in Iranian trade with the
EU, said by e-mail yesterday.  Kushner said some of his clients are “up in arms” over
the sanctions because “they simply have nowhere else to go” to
conduct legal trade.  Exports from the EU to Iran “will decline significantly”
as the sanctions will make it “impossible” to do business in a
safe and transparent manner, he said. The Chinese will be ready
to step in, he said.  “Iran has a penchant for Western European goods, in
particular German goods for which they will pay a premium,”
Kushner said. “They will now have to settle for other
products.”  Tracking Funds  Kushner said the decision on Tejarat wasn’t easy for some
EU diplomats as it “will make it more difficult” for the U.S.
and Europe to track the flow of funds to and from Iran.  “These payments will be driven underground through
international money exchanges, private financiers and barter
deals,” he said.  There may still be alternatives for those seeking to
conduct legal trade between Iran and the EU, such as foreign
exchange brokers and a private Iranian bank that works with a
Swiss merchant bank specializing in  India  and the  Middle East ,
according to a U.K.-based trade consultant whose clients include
Iranian companies importing from Europe. He spoke on condition
of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the subject.  If it becomes difficult to move money out of Iran and all
banks are sanctioned, payments effectively become illegitimate
even if the goods that are being paid for are legal, he said.  Emanuele Ottolenghi, an Iran sanctions specialist at the
 Foundation for the Defense of Democracies , a Washington-based
research institute, said the designation of Bank Tejarat was an
important step in hindering Iran’s efforts to acquire forbidden
technology.  Minsk Connection  Also yesterday, the U.S. Treasury Department designated
Trade Capital Bank of Minsk, Belarus, as providing financial
services to the Export  Development Bank  of Iran and for being
owned or controlled by Bank Tejarat.  The Treasury Department said Bank Tejarat has facilitated
the movement of tens of millions of dollars in an effort to
assist an effort by the  Atomic Energy Organization of Iran  to
acquire uranium. The AEOI is the main Iranian organization for
research and development of nuclear technology and manages
fissile material production programs, the U.S. said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  