-- BofA Said to Warn Investment Bankers of 25% Average Pay Cut
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-01-24T19:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/bank-of-america-is-said-to-warn-investment-bankers-of-25-compensation-cut.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender by assets, told its investment bankers to
expect compensation packages that average 25 percent less than
last year, said two people with knowledge of the discussions.  Executives gave the guidance this month ahead of formal
2011 pay discussions scheduled for this week, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private. The
compensation cut includes salary and bonus, the people said.
Jessica Oppenheim, a spokeswoman for the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based company, said she couldn’t comment.  “Until things really come back, no one should be expecting
compensation like they got in the past,” said  Jeanne Branthover , a managing director at Boyden Global Executive
Search Ltd. in New York. “There are going to be very strong
people who will not be compensated as they expected, and they
will keep their ears open to move for more money.”  Wall Street firms are curbing pay for investment bankers
and traders as the companies succumb to revenue and regulatory
pressures. Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, is scouring the global banking and markets unit
for expenses to cut after a 58 percent stock plunge last year.  Typical Pay  While the company doesn’t break out pay data for its
investment bankers, people in the industry with several years of
experience may earn from about $500,000 into “the millions,”
Branthover said. Bank of America’s global banking and markets
unit had about 12,000 people at the start of 2011, according to
a company presentation.  The division, run by co-chief operating officer Thomas K. Montag, reported its second straight quarterly loss last week as
the European sovereign-debt crisis roiled markets. The business
lost $443 million in the fourth quarter, following a $302
million loss in the preceding period. Its annual profit plunged
to $2.97 billion last year from $6.3 billion in 2010.  Fees from  investment banking , which includes advising
clients on mergers and acquisitions as well as managing sales of
shares and bonds, declined 35 percent in the fourth quarter to
$1.1 billion, the bank said. The market was “challenging”
because of  Europe  and the fallout from  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating, the lender said.  “Trading was strong in the first part of the year, but
with the issues in Europe, the U.S. downgrades, the downgrades
of our company and changes in client risk appetite, results were
weak in the second half,” Moynihan said last week on a
conference call with analysts. “We need that business to come
back or we’ve got to do more in expenses.”  Expense Cuts  Moynihan may trim as much as $3 billion in annual costs
from investment and commercial banking, trading, and wealth-
management units in the latest phase of his efficiency plan,
dubbed Project New BAC. That is in addition to the $5 billion
targeted from retail and back-office operations, mostly
accomplished through eliminating 30,000 jobs.  The review, which is scheduled to be complete in April,
probably will include staff reductions. Firms including Barclays
Plc and Credit Suisse Group AG have dismissed staff as revenue
from trading stocks and bonds has eroded.  Compensation declines at Bank of America mirror actions by
other firms.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is reducing pay for senior
investment bankers and traders by an average of 20 percent to 30
percent for 2011, people with knowledge of the move said last
week. The firm is also capping immediate cash bonuses at
$125,000 as it seeks to defer the pay of senior executives.  Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  reduced compensation and benefits
expense 21 percent to $12.2 billion in 2011. That was enough to
provide $367,057 to each of its 33,300 employees, down from
$430,700 for the 35,700 workers at the end of 2010.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest and most profitable U.S.
bank, reported earlier this month that it lowered pay at its
investment bank 9 percent in 2011, enough for an average
$341,552 per person. Average compensation is derived by dividing
the overall compensation pool by the number of employees, and
doesn’t represent actual pay for individuals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in  New York  at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net 
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 