-- BB&T Backs Down as Occupy Atlanta Fights Off Eviction of Inner-City Church
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/bb-t-backs-down-as-occupy-atlanta-resists-eviction-of-inner-city-church.html
BB&T Corp. (BBT) , the ninth-largest U.S.
bank, had been fighting with Higher Ground Empowerment Center
over a bad loan for more than three years when Occupy Atlanta
weighed in for the church this month.  In 24 hours on Jan. 11, the movement confronted BB&T,
stopping it from evicting Higher Ground, which traces its roots
in Georgia’s capital to 1904. Occupy helped broker what member
Tim Franzen called a “sweet, sweet” deal for a church that
didn’t pay its debts.  The rescue marked a concrete victory for a movement
criticized as frivolous and vague as it agitated against the
power of wealth. John A. Allison IV, a director and former chief
executive of the Winston-Salem,  North Carolina , bank, dismissed
it last month as an “attack on the very productive.”  The protesters weren’t instrumental in saving the church,
said David White, a BB&T spokesman, adding that eviction was
never imminent.  “At all times, BB&T intended to engage in further
discussions with the church prior to taking any steps toward
eviction,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  The eviction process began in January 2011, court records
show.  Higher Ground Empowerment Center , formerly Mount Gilead
Missionary Baptist Church, sits in a neighborhood called Vine
City where civil rights leader  Martin Luther King Jr . lived
before he was slain in 1968.  ‘Safe Haven’  Census figures from 2006 through 2010 show a 69 percent
poverty rate for families with children in the tract that
includes the church, which sits in the shadow of downtown
Atlanta’s  Georgia  Dome and World Congress Center. The area was
92 percent black.  Higher Ground’s financial difficulties stemmed from
expansion ambitions, the economic downturn and natural disaster,
Pastor Dexter Johnson said in an interview there.  The institution took out a $1.1 million loan from BB&T in
October 2007, intending to renovate and expand, Johnson said.  Higher Ground already owned a barber shop and apartment
house. The 48-year-old pastor planned a day-care center for the
elderly, a home for battered women, a shelter for child
prostitutes and a halfway house for felons on property nearby.  “We were going to give them a safe haven,” Johnson said.  Some parishioners had questions: “I had a couple of people
say ‘How far should a church go?’” Johnson said. “I answered
‘How far does a church not go?’ It’s our responsibility to do
what the community needs.”  In Too Deep  The plans soured. Court records indicate that the church
and its lenders were already at odds by February 2008 over loan
terms that included the church’s failure to obtain insurance on
the building that was the loan collateral. In later court
filings, the bank said the church also didn’t disclose $45,000
in new loans with finance companies.  The situation worsened when on March 14, a  tornado  damaged
the church’s foundation and steeple -- and therefore its ability
to attract parishioners and their offerings.  By December 2008, the church gave BB&T its property deed in
order to avoid foreclosure, becoming a tenant with a $2,000
monthly lease through June 2010. BB&T began eviction procedures
seven months after the lease expired.  The church was a “tenant holding over,” BB&T’s White
said. “To resolve the hold-over status and all other issues,
BB&T initiated legal proceedings to obtain the right of
possession.”  On The Brink  Higher Ground appealed, and the fight was poised for
resolution at hearing Jan. 12 in a Fulton County court on the
bank’s request to allow the eviction to proceed.  Then, Occupy Atlanta stepped in.  The Occupy movement began in  New York  on Sept. 17, when
several dozen protesters took up residence in  Manhattan ’s
Zuccotti Park to highlight the plight of average Americans who
have suffered from home foreclosures and soaring unemployment
while the largest U.S. banks recovered from the 2008 financial
crisis.  The protests spread to cities such as  Chicago ,  Los Angeles 
and  San Francisco , as well as overseas to London, Rome and
 Tokyo . The movement was leaderless, and without specific
demands.  Atlanta’s offshoot faded from public view since being
ejected from a park in October. In the church, the cause found a
focus. Occupiers descended on Higher Ground with tents and signs
the night before the eviction hearing. The encampment spread
across its parking lot and took over a lawn.  Day of Rest  Members held a press conference Jan. 11 to say that the
bank was set to destroy a 108-year-old black church on the eve
of King’s Jan. 16 birthday holiday.  BB&T asked that the hearing be postponed.  After a meeting with the bank five days later, Higher
Ground left with the deed to its properties in hand and a new,
30-year, 1 percent interest rate mortgage for an amount “far
less” than the original defaulted loan, Johnson said.  BB&T’s White said the bank couldn’t discuss those details,
because of client confidentiality.  “It took us six days to win that church,” said Franzen.
“I’m not a religious guy, but it took us six days, and on the
seventh, we rested.”  An eviction would have sullied BB&T, said John Sweeney, a
professor of mass communications at the University of North
Carolina-Chapel Hill.  Tiptoeing Away  The stand-off had at least three elements of a media
firestorm, he said in a telephone interview. They included the
church’s age, the involvement of Occupy protesters and the
holiday weekend.  “It would have been a PR nightmare,” he said. “I think
they probably saw that and said ‘Let’s see if we can tiptoe out
of this.’”  The church and the bank now speak kindly of each other.  “BB&T is all right with us,” Johnson said. “They are a
bank I would recommend to anyone.”  “We are pleased that all the parties were able to work
together to achieve an outcome that benefits the church and its
community,” said White of BB&T.  Fresh from victory, Occupy’s Franzen said the group would
now focus on the rest of Vine City, which he called “the most
underserved neighborhood in Atlanta.”  “What needs to happen, really, is that somebody needs to
regulate the banks,” he said. “In this case, the people
regulated the bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta  at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  