-- Fed Openness Poses Risk Rate Forecast to Be Viewed as Vow
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2012-01-24T15:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/bernanke-transparency-drive-poses-risk-rate-forecast-will-be-viewed-as-vow.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  was answering reporters’ questions two
weeks ago when he paused to seek their assistance on the Fed’s
campaign to open up to the public.  “Help me out here,” Plosser said after a Jan. 11 speech
in Rochester, New York. “There’s a huge confusion about this,”
he said, referring to Fed plans to start releasing policy
makers’ forecasts for the benchmark interest rate tomorrow.  Plosser said he was concerned investors might misinterpret
the projections as a pledge to keep borrowing costs low for a
specified period. That could make it harder for the central bank
to raise interest rates should the need arise, said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  “It’s not at all clear how people are supposed to react”
to the Fed’s new communications policy, Stanley said. “If it
does start to take on that sense of being a commitment,” he
said, “it runs a great risk in terms of their credibility when
they end up not being able to stick to it.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  plans to release all 17
policy makers’ rate projections for the fourth quarter of 2012,
the next few years and the long run, as well as an explanation
for their assessments. The Fed will provide the information at
the conclusion of a two-day meeting tomorrow. The FOMC convened
today at about 10 a.m.  Views Voiced  The decision to announce the projections is the latest
effort by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke to increase openness and
public understanding of the Fed. Since becoming chairman in
2006, Bernanke has begun holding regular press conferences and
voiced his views in television interviews and at town hall
meetings. He’s also announced forecasts on economic growth,
unemployment and inflation four times a year, up from twice
annually under his predecessor,  Alan Greenspan .  Chicago  Fed President  Charles Evans , who this month
reiterated his call for adding more stimulus, said on Jan. 13
that the central bank’s “enhanced communications” mark a
“substantial, first-order improvement” over the Fed’s previous
efforts. Publishing the projections will help the public better
evaluate the committee’s views, while allowing monetary policy
to “respond more strongly in the medium-term when adverse
economic shocks impede growth and employment,” he said.  Policy makers want to telegraph their expectations for the
appropriate path for the overnight lending rate between banks,
Plosser said. That shouldn’t be confused as a commitment on the
level of interest rates.  ‘Policy Views’  “What we’re doing is describing to the public the range of
policy views that the committee has,” said Plosser, 63. He
dissented twice last year against further accommodation and the
Fed’s pledge to hold rates low at least through mid-2013.  The Fed’s record in forecasting has been mixed. Transcripts
of its 2006 meetings show the  central bank  didn’t foresee the
housing collapse and financial crisis that began in 2007, or the
18-month recession that followed. A sudden decline or
improvement in the outlook for the economy may compel Fed
officials to deviate from their projected interest-rate path.  “We’re going to see how difficult it is for the Fed to
anticipate movements in key economic variables based on its
projections for the fed funds rate,” said  Paul Kasriel , chief
economist for Northern Trust Corp. in Chicago. The 2006
transcripts show “the Fed was kind of flat-footed” in its
outlook for the economy.  Raise Benchmark Rate  Economists predict the Fed will wait until the first
quarter of 2014 to raise its target for the federal funds rate
to 0.75 percent from near zero, where it’s been since December
2008, based on the median estimate of 32 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News this month.  “There are risks,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist
at  Barclays Capital  in New York. “The Fed could guide markets
to an outcome that turns out to be very different than what
actually happens. That could increase volatility.”  The yield on Treasury 10-year notes has climbed to 2.06
percent from a  record  low of 1.67 percent on Sept. 23 as
investors bought riskier assets amid signs finance officials
were near an agreement aimed at defusing  Europe ’s debt crisis.
Yields had plunged as investors speculated central banks would
have to enact further easing to avert a global recession.  Disclosing the forecasts for the fed funds rate wasn’t
intended as an easing measure, though it may inadvertently push
expectations for an  interest-rate  increase further into the
future, Plosser said.  “That’s the wrong way of reading this,” he said. “It is
about transparency.”  December Meeting  The FOMC decided to reveal the forecasts after “a number
of members noted their dissatisfaction with the committee’s
current approach,” according to the minutes of their December
2011 meeting. Several members said the commitment to keep
 interest rates low  at least through mid-2013 may need
adjustment, the minutes said.  “The actual release of the forecasts will give a lot more
information about how the Fed’s viewing the situation,” Maki
said. “I do think that is helpful.”  The forecasts are “a better way” of communicating the
path of policy than giving a date, and the quarterly release of
the projections will give the Fed flexibility to change
expectations over rates, Plosser said.  The forecasts free policy makers from the “straitjacket of
the mid-2013 pledge,” Stanley said. While the existing
commitment “does not lend itself well to discreet changes,”
the “quarterly forecasts allow you to take small tweaks.”  Amount of Clarity  Still, the number of individual forecasts by FOMC
participants may limit the amount of clarity, St. Louis Fed
chief  James Bullard , 50, said after a Jan. 13 speech.  “It’s not going to be perfect” because “you still have
17 possible paths” laid out by Fed officials, Bullard said.
There is “some risk” investors misconstrue the forecasts as a
commitment to a set course for interest rates, he said.  The central banks of Norway and  Sweden  have published the
expected path of interest rates since 2005 and 2007, and did U-
turns last year on their rate predictions. Their experience
highlights the risks for the Fed, according Robert Bergqvist,
chief economist at Stockholm-based SEB AB and former head of
research at the Riksbank, Sweden’s central bank.  The Fed’s newest move on communications may not prove
“beneficial” to the  U.S. economy  or financial-market
stability, Bergqvist said. “The risk is high that volatility in
financial markets will increase,” and “the central bank can
give false certainty” to households, investors and businesses,
he said.  Tjorvi Olafsson, an economist at the Central Bank of
Iceland since 2005, said his research indicates investors can
adapt to sudden deviations in a central bank’s expected
interest-rate path.  “Experience from other countries indicates that the risk
associated with misinterpretations of this type of projections
should be manageable,” he said in an e-mail reply to questions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  