-- Binding Greek Deal Would Trigger Swap Payments, Millstein Says
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-01-24T19:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/binding-greek-deal-would-trigger-swap-payments-millstein-says.html
A deal to relieve Greece’s debt
burden would trigger a global credit event if forced on the
nation’s bondholders, said  Jim Millstein , the U.S. Treasury
Department’s former chief restructuring officer.  Greek officials are seeking to reach an agreement with
private creditors on a voluntary debt swap. If the government
enacts legislation that compels full participation in the deal,
it should trigger payouts on credit-default swaps, or CDS, that
investors bought to insure against a default, Millstein said.  “This will be the largest CDS event we’ve ever seen in the
private market,” Millstein said at the Bloomberg Sovereign Debt
Crisis Conference hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in  New York  today.
“And who’s swimming naked when that tide goes out?”  European finance ministers pushed Greece’s private
creditors to accept bigger losses in talks that seek terms that
won’t trigger the swap payments. Standard & Poor’s managing
director of sovereign ratings,  John Chambers , said today that
the “very least” that may happen is a debt exchange that
qualifies as a default by his firm’s criteria.  “Cast your mind back to 2008: One of the things that
scared the regulators around the globe was whether or not
markets could withstand a big CDS event,” said Millstein, a
former  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  banker who last year founded his own
turnaround advisory firm, Millstein & Co. “A lot of action was
taken to avoid that. Here, it seems almost inevitable.”  Binding Deal  The International Swaps and Derivatives Association, a
trade body that declares credit events, has said that an
agreement outlined last year wouldn’t trigger CDS bought by
investors. If a Greek deal is binding for bondholders who
haven’t agreed to a voluntary deal, the so-called holdout
investors, then this will no longer be the case, Millstein said.  “If it’s made binding on holdouts, can ISDA really contend
this is a voluntary restructuring and doesn’t trigger a
restructuring credit event? I think not,” Millstein said. “If
it’s made binding on holdouts, then it is a restructuring credit
event and we’re going to see how the CDS market clears and if it
clears.”  Millstein left Lazard in 2009 and helped Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  oversee the $182.3 billion bailout of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  Part of the rescue was tied to
the New York-based insurer’s CDS obligations linked to mortgage
debt. Millstein also worked on  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s $45 billion
bailout.  A proposal from the Institute of International Finance
would lead to a loss of about 69 percent on the net-present
value of Greek bonds, two people with knowledge of the talks
said. Europe can’t let the deal disable the CDS market,
 Christian Clausen , president of the European Banking Federation,
which represents the region’s banks, said in Stockholm today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 