-- Blackstone Said to Raise More Than $6 Billion for Property Fund
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/blackstone-said-to-raise-more-than-6-billion-for-distressed-property-fund.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  secured more
than $6 billion of pledged capital for a new real estate fund
that will buy mainly distressed-property assets, said two people
with knowledge of the fundraising.  The New York-based buyout firm plans to raise at least $10
billion for the fund, known as Blackstone Real Estate Partners
VII, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
capital-raising is private. Blackstone expects the vehicle to be
fully funded this year, they said.  The company has remained one of the most active investors
in commercial real estate at a time when such Wall Street
competitors as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Whitehall funds and
Morgan Stanley’s real estate funds retreated after incurring
losses in the crash.  “Blackstone is in a bit of a unique position because so
many mega-funds have been eliminated or are struggling with
ongoing legacy issues,” said James Corl, a managing director at
Siguler Guff & Co., a New York-based private-equity firm that
raised $630 million for distressed-property investments.  Christine Anderson , a Blackstone spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Separately, the firm named  Jonathan Gray  sole head of
global real estate and made Chad Pike, formerly co-head with
Gray, a vice chairman of Blackstone Europe, according to a
letter sent to investors last month. Gray, who joined the firm
in 1992, sits on its management and executive committees.  Pike, who joined Blackstone in 1995, will continue to be
responsible mainly for real estate and may take on additional
duties, said the two people with knowledge of the firm.  Europe, Asia  Kenneth Caplan, based in  London , was promoted to head of
European real estate for Blackstone and Christopher Heady, who
works out of  Hong Kong , was named head of Asia real estate,
according to the letter to investors. Caplan has been with
Blackstone since 1997, and Heady since 2000. All the executives
are senior managing directors.  The management changes were reported last week by the U.K.
website PropertyWeek.com.  Blackstone’s real estate group employs about 200 people
globally. The unit had more than $40 billion of assets under
management as of Sept. 30, according to the firm’s website. The
firm told investors in August that it had raised $4 billion in
the first round of fundraising for Blackstone Real Estate
Partners VII, four months after it began the effort.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at   dtaub@bloomberg.net  