-- BoA-ML Sees Main Polish Rate Rising a Half-Point Through May
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2012-01-24T14:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/boa-ml-sees-main-polish-rate-rising-a-half-point-through-may.html
Poland ’s central bank will increase
its benchmark  interest rate  in quarter-point steps in March and
May as economic growth and a weak zloty keep inflation above the
2.5 percent target, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.  “As the economy is proving resilient, the Monetary Policy
Council is turning its attention to inflation,”  Raffaella
Tenconi , an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
 London , said in a report published today.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  left the benchmark seven-day
interest rate at 4.5 percent for a seventh month on Jan. 11,
citing “a stubbornly high inflation rate” spurred by the
zloty’s declines in recent months, together with data suggesting
an economic slowdown may be less than forecast.  Poland’s economy grew about 4 percent in the fourth quarter
of last year and as much as 4.2 percent in 2011, Deputy Finance
Minister  Ludwik Kotecki  said yesterday, adding that the
“balance of risks” for forecasted 2.5 percent growth of gross
domestic product in 2012 is “positive,” PAP reported. December
 industrial output  grew 7.7 percent from the same month in 2010,
exceeding forecasts.  “Headline inflation in our view has peaked, but will not
return to the 2.5 percent center of the target corridor even in
2013,” Tenconi wrote in today’s report. “Inflation
expectations of households and businesses are stuck at high
levels, raising the risk of eventual second-round effects.”  Risks to the two interest rate increases could come from
“a sudden negative growth shock to the German economy,” where
Poland sells a third of its exports, she said.  The rate decisions also hinge on the zloty, which
slumped 10.5 percent against the euro over the past 12 months,
leading to faster price growth, Tenconi said.  While the zloty has gained since the beginning of this
year, “an appreciation of the zloty to 4 against the euro is
what is needed to bring inflation back to target already this
year,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  