-- Bombs in the Sinai Desert Fuel Israel Fence-Building on Border With Egypt
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-01-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/bombs-in-the-sinai-fuel-israel-fence-building-on-egyptian-border.html
The  Sinai Peninsula  is becoming a
top security priority for Israel after more than three decades
of quiet along its border with Egypt.  Since the fall of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  almost a
year ago, a pipeline supplying natural gas to Israel through
Sinai has been bombed 10 times. Militants crossed the Egyptian
border into Israel on Aug. 18, killing eight people. In
December, a record 2,931 people, mostly African migrants,
entered Israel illegally through the porous frontier.  The response: Israel is building a fence along the 240-
kilometer (150-mile) border to block terrorists and migrants
from crossing into the country’s southern reaches from Egypt’s
Sinai Peninsula. A stretch of road to the Israeli resort city of
Eilat that runs along the border will be shifted about 750
meters eastward for security concerns.  “ Egypt  is suffering from acute instability and a weak
central government,” said Shlomo Brom, a senior research fellow
at the Institute for National Security Studies at Tel Aviv
University. “There is no real Egyptian control over Sinai, the
best example of which is their inability to secure the  gas
pipeline .”  The Sinai has become a base for radical Palestinian groups,
Islamic extremists with links with al-Qaeda and Bedouin criminal
gangs, said Brom, a former general who stepped down from the
army’s Strategic Planning Division in 1998.  ‘Great Concern’  “Sinai is a great concern for us,” Major-General Amir
Eshel, current head of the planning branch, said Jan. 17 at a
Jerusalem briefing, adding: “It’s seen as a safe haven” by
many radical groups and “both countries understand this must be
addressed.”  The Sinai bombings reduced Israel’s  imports  from Egypt to
$179 million last year compared with $355 million in 2010.
Almost all those imports are natural gas, said Shauli
Katznelson, chief economist of the Israel Export Institute in
 Tel Aviv .  The 1.35-billion shekel ($360-million) fence, originally
planned primarily to stop an increasing flow of illegal African
workers, is Israel’s main response to the new threats from
Sinai. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told his cabinet on
Jan. 15 that work is being expedited on the barrier, which
should be completed within nine or 10 months.  Israeli concerns over Egypt’s direction have heightened
since Islamic parties won a majority of seats in Egypt’s lower
house, which convened for the first time this week. Islamists
led by the  Muslim Brotherhood ’s Freedom & Justice party dominate
the lower house of the assembly. Freedom and Justice said its
bloc won 235 of the 498 elected seats, or 47 percent.  The Muslim Brotherhood, a formerly outlawed movement, has
sent mixed signals on future relations with  Israel , including on
whether it would honor the 1979 Camp David agreement.  Not Binding?  “The normal thing is for treaties forged by former regimes
to be respected,” said Muslim Brotherhood spokesman Mahmoud
Ghozlan. “This doesn’t mean that reviewing any treaty, be it
with Israel or any other country, cannot happen so that mutual
interests can be achieved.”  The Nour party, which follows an austere interpretation of
Islam and holds the second largest share of seats, has also
expressed reservations about the Camp David accords.  “We will abide by the treaty, but this does not mean
accepting a number of clauses which the Egyptian people are
clearly and unanimously against, such as exporting gas to
Israel,” said Nour spokesman Nader Bakkar.  Nonetheless, Israel’s political and security establishment
has “rushed to judgment” in imagining a “worst-case
scenario” in Egypt, said Yoram Meital, chairman of Ben Gurion
University’s Herzog Center for Middle East Studies in Beersheba.  Domestic Focus  He predicted the Egyptian military will maintain its
responsibility for security arrangements over Sinai as mandated
by the Camp David accords. Even a parliament controlled by
Islamic parties is more likely to focus on domestic issues and
will continue to honor its treaty obligations, he said.  “Israel has to stop viewing the events in Egypt solely
through a security lens,” Meital said. Leaders should emphasize
diplomacy to engage the emerging Egyptian government, he said.  The Sinai, a rocky desert wilderness through which the
Bible records Moses leading the Israelites to the Land of
Israel, was a key battleground in the 1967 and 1973 Israeli-Arab
wars. Israel returned it to Egypt under the 1979 peace treaty.  While a fence along the Egyptian border has been long
discussed by Israeli policy makers, it remained low on the
government’s priority list as long as the area was relatively
quiet. In 2010, Netanyahu ordered work to begin in earnest in
response to an increasing flow of African migrants.  Tougher Fines  At least 52,000 such migrants have entered the country
through the Egypt border, according to Israeli government
figures. Along with the border fence, the cabinet approved a
 plan  last month that includes building a new holding facility in
the country’s south to hold illegal migrants, stiffer fines for
those who employ them and stepped-up efforts at repatriation.  The  Defense Ministry  decided to build the fence in 20-
kilometer segments utilizing several different companies chosen
in government tenders. Ten have already been awarded and another
10 are expected this year. Winners included Yehuda Fences Ltd.,
 Elbit Systems Ltd (ELST) .’s Elop unit and Israel Aerospace Industries
Ltd.’s Elta subsidiary.  Nasdaq-traded  Magal Security Systems Ltd. (MAGS) , headed by Jacob Perry, former head of the Shin Bet security service, faulted the
planning. Israel needs an “indicative” fence that activates an
alarm on contact, said Perry, whose company has erected such
barriers on Israel’s national borders, as well as the  West Bank 
and the  Gaza Strip . Cameras and other electronic devices will be
sufficient, the Defense Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  The exact type of fence being built is less important than
other measures to secure the border, according to Major General
Yom Tov Samia, former head of Israel’s Southern Command.  “Any kind of fence will not be efficient unless there are
sufficient forces to patrol it, and of the right kind, including
police and border police units that can carry out arrests of
smugglers and infiltrators,” said Samia, chief executive
officer of  Israel Corp. (ILCO)  unit IC Green Energy Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  