-- BP’s McKay to Be First Witness at Gulf Oil Spill Trial
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-01-24T20:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/bp-s-mckay-will-be-first-witness-at-gulf-oil-spill-trial.html
BP (BP/)  America Inc.’s chairman and
president,  Lamar McKay , will be the first witness at the
February trial to determine liability for the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico oil spill, plaintiffs’ lawyers said.  “Mr. McKay should be instructed to be present and ready to
testify immediately upon completion of the opening statements,”
lawyers for businesses and property owners said in a Jan. 20
letter to the company’s attorney Andrew Langan. The letter was
filed today in federal court in  New Orleans .  McKay, the highest-ranking U.S. executive of  BP Plc (BP\) , “will
be on the stand for the first two days that trial testimony is
taken,” attorneys James Roy and Stephen Herman said in the
letter. Mark Bly, a BP safety official, will also be on the
witness stand in the first week of trial or by the beginning of
the second week, Roy and Herman said.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and  explosion  killed 11
workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits from businesses
and coastal property owners against BP, its partners and
contractors, including  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Switzerland-based
owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that
exploded, and Halliburton Co., which provided cementing services
to the project.  The U.S. also sued BP, Transocean and  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC) , which owned 25 percent of the well, in December 2010,
alleging violations of federal pollution laws.  Consolidated Suits  The lawsuits are consolidated for pretrial processing by
U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans. Barbier
scheduled a nonjury trial to begin Feb. 27 to determine which
companies share blame for the explosion.  Scott Dean, a BP spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail and call for comment.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  