-- Brazil Real Declines as Greek Debt Stalemate Spurs Economic Growth Concern
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-01-24T20:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/brazil-real-declines-as-greek-debt-stalemate-spurs-economic-growth-concern.html
Brazil ’s real fell for the first
time in five days as a stalemate between European policy makers
and Greek bondholders revived concern the region’s debt crisis
will squelch a global economic recovery.  The real weakened 0.2 percent to 1.7585 per  U.S. dollar  at
the close in Sao Paulo, from 1.755 yesterday. The yield on the
Brazilian interest-rate futures contract due in January 2013
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 9.84
percent.  The Greek debt stalemate sapped demand for higher-yielding
assets. Brazil’s currency fared worse than most emerging-market
peers after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday the
government will keep in place policies to prevent it from
gaining to protect local manufacturers from losing business to
imports, said Mauricio Junqueira, who helps oversee about $300
million at Squanto Investimentos in  Sao Paulo .  “The external market opened poorly because of  Europe , the
Greek negotiations are difficult,” Junqueira said by phone.
“Emerging-market currencies are getting beaten up.”  Brazil will make room for a more “flexible” monetary
policy as the government seeks to ensure economic growth of at
least 4 percent this year, Mantega told reporters yesterday.  The government will rely on credit expansion, lower
borrowing costs, an increase in public investment, policies to
prevent the currency from appreciating and a responsible fiscal
stance to shore up economic growth amid Europe’s debt crisis,
Mantega said.  “Any time the dollar weakens, Mantega will say something,
but I think it will be difficult for the government to react
unless it falls below 1.70,” Junqueira said.  Inflation Report  The real touched 1.7487 per dollar yesterday, the strongest
since Nov. 14.  Brazilian consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA-15
index, rose 0.65 percent through mid-January from the previous
month, higher than the 0.56 percent median estimate of 44
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Annual inflation eased to 6.44 percent, compared with the
central bank’s target of 4.5 percent plus or minus two
percentage points, the government statistics office in  Rio de
Janeiro  said today.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts maturing after
July 2012 fell on speculation inflation for the full month of
January will ease, said Thiago Curado, an economist at
Tendencias Consultoria Integrada in Sao Paulo.  “The full month IPCA should come below the IPCA-15
registered today,” Curado said by phone. “There should be a
drop in fuel and clothing prices at the end of the month because
of the season.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  