-- Brazil Plans to Make Room for More Elastic Monetary Policy and Cut Budget
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-01-24T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/brazil-plans-to-make-room-for-more-elastic-monetary-policy-mantega-says.html
Brazil will make room for a more
“flexible”  monetary  policy as the government seeks to ensure
economic growth of at least 4 percent this year, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  President Dilma Rousseff will cut enough of its 2012 budget
to ensure the government meets its target of a budget  surplus 
before interest payment of 139.8 billion reais ($79.7 billion),
Mantega told reporters yesterday. He said the government will
keep in place a “solid” fiscal policy even as it expands
public investment this year to fuel growth, adding the size of
the budget cut will be announced in mid-February.  “The budget cut will be enough to meet the fiscal target,
keeping the current direction that makes room for a more elastic
monetary policy,” Mantega said after a Cabinet meeting with
Rousseff. We will “give continuity to the change in the fiscal
and  monetary policy  mix we implemented in 2011, in which
monetary policy can be more flexible and the fiscal policy more
rigorous.”  The government will rely on credit expansion, lower
borrowing costs, an increase in public investment, policies to
prevent the currency from appreciating and a responsible fiscal
stance to shore up economic growth amid  Europe ’s debt crisis,
Mantega said. Since August, Rousseff’s economic team has lowered
the benchmark interest rate four times, lifted credit curbs and
reduced taxes on  consumer goods  and foreign investment as part
of a plan to offset slower global growth.  Expectations  Traders are wagering the central bank will lower the
overnight rate to as low as 9.75 percent by May, interest rate
futures show. The yield on interest rate futures contract
maturing January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo , rose 4
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 9.86 percent
yesterday, after dropping for three consecutive days.  “Mantega is talking about this to allow room for  interest
rates  to further drop,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao
Paulo-based Gradual Investimentos, said in a phone interview.
“The 4 percent growth is not feasible.”  The central bank has reduced its benchmark interest rate by
a half percentage point at each of its last four meetings as
part of a plan to shield the economy from a global slowdown.
Policy makers, who lowered the Selic rate to 10.5 percent last
week, signaled they will cut borrowing costs at the current pace
when they meet in March again.  Brazil  has taken the lead among  emerging markets  in cutting
borrowing costs as the economy shrank in the third quarter for
the first time since 2009. The move has since been followed by
policy makers in  Russia ,  Indonesia ,  Chile  and  Israel .  Economy, Inflation  Brazil’s economy shrank 0.17 percent on an annualized basis
in the third quarter, the first contraction since the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, while industrial
output has fallen for five of the last eight months.  While annual inflation has slowed in the past three months
to 6.5 percent in December, analysts expect central bank
President Alexandre Tombini to fail in his pledge to bring
consumer price increases back to the 4.5 percent mid-point of
the bank’s target in 2012, a central bank survey shows.  Analyst forecast consumer prices will rise 5.29 percent
this year and 5 percent in 2013, according to the median
forecast in a Jan. 20 central bank survey.  Real  Mantega also said the government will keep in place
policies to prevent the real from gaining in a bid to protect
local manufacturers from imports.  The real has gained 6.4 percent this year, the best
performer among the 16 most-traded currencies. It was little
changed at 1.7550 per  U.S. dollar  yesterday.  “We have a big challenge because our industry is losing
ground,” Mantega said. “We won’t allow the currency to
appreciate. We will take measures against countries that
implement a predatory competition.”  Mantega said credit needs to expand 15 percent to 17
percent this year to ensure the government’s growth target.  The central bank estimates credit expanded 17.5 percent
last year and will grow 15 percent in 2012, Tulio Maciel, the
head of the central bank’s economic research department, told
reporters Dec. 21.  “The important thing is for credit to grow and the
financial costs to drop. We will take a series of measures,”
Mantega said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ,
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Jameson at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  