-- CA Technologies Shares Gain After Net Beats Estimates, Dividend Is Boosted
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-01-25T21:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/ca-technologies-advances-on-dividend-boost-after-profit-exceeds-estimates.html
CA Inc. (CA) , the business-technology
services provider in talks with an activist investor, surged the
most in more than three years after reporting earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates and increasing dividends and share buybacks.  The shares  gained  9.7 percent to $25.03 at the close in New
York, the biggest jump since October 2008. The stock was the
second  best  performer in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The Islandia, New York-based company said income from
continuing operations rose 34 percent after sales grew in its
services and enterprise software units. CA, targeted by Taconic
Capital Advisors LP after the hedge fund acquired a 5.1 percent
stake this month aiming to boost returns, said it will increase
its annual dividend to $1 from 20 cents.  CA plans to return $2.5 billion to shareholders by March
31, 2014, by increasing the annual payout and repurchasing $1.5
billion of stock, including about $230 million remaining under
its existing authorization.  “We are not done,” Chief Executive Officer Bill McCracken
said. “We remain focused on continuing to execute on our
strategy and making further operational enhancements including
driving new product sales and increasing sales productivity.”  Income from continuing operations rose to $263 million, or
54 cents a share, from $196 million, or 38 cents, a year
earlier, the company said yesterday in a statement. Excluding
some items, profit was 65 cents, beating the 54-cent average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Full-Year Guidance  Revenue rose 10 percent to $1.26 billion, exceeding
analysts’ $1.21 billion estimate.  For the fiscal year ending March 31, CA said sales will
rise 6 percent, the high end of its prior range. The company
raised its  forecast  for adjusted earnings to $2.21 to $2.25 from
$2.13 to $2.18.  Mainframe solution sales rose 9 percent. Enterprise
software climbed 12 percent, and services gained 17 percent.  Taconic Capital said Jan. 11 it was in talks with
management to boost returns after acquiring a stake in CA.
Taconic said the company could pay out more cash to
shareholders, implement a more efficient  capital structure  and
increase profitability in its enterprise solutions division.  Taconic was co-founded by Kenneth Brody and Frank Brosens
and has offices in New York and  London .  The company told analysts in July it expected to use up to
50 percent of free  cash flow  for share buybacks, Bill Hughes, a
CA spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. In
October, executives said they were evaluating balance sheet
options, and would announce a plan in the fiscal fourth quarter,
which began this month, Hughes said.  The company was formerly known as Computer Associates Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  