-- Cabot Production Growth Seen Cut as Gas Hits 10-Year-Low: Energy
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-01-24T21:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/cabot-production-growth-seen-cut-as-gas-hits-10-year-low-energy.html
Cabot Oil & Gas Corp ., the best
performer in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index last year, may
curtail drilling to cope with natural-gas prices that slumped to
a 10-year low because of a supply glut it helped create.  Cabot will fall about $75 million short in funding its
drilling program after the benchmark U.S. gas price lost almost
half its value in the past year, Anish Patel, a managing
director with ISI Group in New York, estimated. With gas selling
for $2.53 per million British thermal units, the Houston-based
company may join other explorers in postponing or canceling
wells amid dwindling returns, said John Lutz at Frost Investment
Advisors in  San Antonio .  “Even the best companies are going to struggle with
natural- gas prices  under $3,” Lutz said in an interview.
“Cabot’s not immune to that.”  Cabot, whose stock price doubled last year, outpacing every
other U.S. gas producer, hasn’t curtailed its drilling and its
fields remain profitable at current prices, George Stark, a
company spokesman, said. Cabot fell 1.6 percent to close at
$64.04 in New York.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Dinges is counting on  cash flow 
to fund an $850 million to $900 million drilling program that
will add more than 100 wells and boost production as much as 55
percent this year.  Fueled by escalating output in shale deposits from  Texas  to
Pennsylvania, U.S. gas production rose a record 7.4 percent in
2011, swelling stockpiles and depressing prices, the Energy
Department said in a Jan. 10 report.  Rivals’ Drilling Cutbacks  Rival gas producers including  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the
second-largest U.S. producer of the fuel, and  EQT Corp. (EQT)  have
announced plans to reduce drilling in response to the glut-
induced price decline.  Cabot, based in Houston, has lost about 16 percent of its
market value this year, following the trajectory of fellow
producers for whom profits are inextricably linked to the price
of gas used to run furnaces, factories and power plants.
Chesapeake and gas producers including Range Resources Corp. and
 Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN)  followed Cabot lower today.  Yesterday, the Energy Department in  Washington  reduced its
estimate for gas reserves in the Marcellus shale by 66 percent,
citing improved data on drilling and production.  About 141 trillion cubic feet of gas can be recovered from
the Marcellus shale using current technology, down from the
previous estimate of 410 trillion, the department said in its
Annual Energy Outlook. About 482 trillion cubic feet can be
produced from shale basins across the U.S., down 42 percent from
827 trillion in last year’s outlook.  Cabot also has drawn the ire of environmental regulators
and landowners for allegedly polluting drinking water with its
wells in  Pennsylvania .  The company probably is better-positioned than peers to
withstand rock-bottom commodity prices, by virtue of its control
of  the richest portion  of the gas-soaked Marcellus Shale in the
U.S. northeast, Patel said in an interview.  Prolific Wells  Cabot’s wells are so prolific that a gas price of $2.44 per
million Btu still captures a 15 percent return, compared to the
$3.50 minimum price competitors need to generate similar
profits, he said.  “The economic profile of their wells is much better than
other wells in the Marcellus,” Patel said. Any gap between cash
flow and Dinges’s spending plan could be filled with borrowed
money, he said.  Cabot and other explorers that produce mostly gas rather
than crude, including  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  of  Fort Worth ,
Texas, and Houston-based Southwestern Energy Co., have been
battered this month by investors worried that profits are
disappearing as gas prices plunge.  Dinges told investors and analysts during an Oct. 27
conference call that cash flow will be more than ample to
support his 2012 capital projects. The plan calls for five rigs
to drill 70 to 78 wells in the Marcellus region, and one rig
each in Texas’s Eagle Ford Shale and an Oklahoma formation
called the Marmaton, he said during the call.  Eagle Ford, Marmaton  In the Eagle Ford and Marmaton regions, Cabot’s plans
include drilling or owning stakes in a combined 45 to 60 new
wells by the end of this year, Dinges told the analysts and
investors on the call.  Gas traded for $3.52 per million Btu on the day Dinges made
those comments, 40 percent more than yesterday’s price. Dinges
declined through Stark, the company spokesman, to be interviewed
for this article.  “No decision has been made on limiting the amount of
drilling that we’re doing,” Stark said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Cabot has energy contracts in place covering half its daily
January output that locked in a price of $5.20 per thousand
cubic feet, the company said in a Jan. 12 statement.  ‘Significant’ Returns  “These commodity prices, while not where we want them,
still afford our Marcellus project a significant rate of return
of around 55 to 60 percent before hedges because of their best-
in-class characteristics,” the company said in the statement.  Cash generated by Marcellus gas will be used to extract
higher-profit oil from the company’s Texas and Oklahoma
leaseholds, Dinges said during the October call. Gas accounted
for 96 percent of Cabot’s output during the first nine months of
2011, a company filing showed.  Focusing some attention on crude will assuage investors
concerned about the impact of depressed gas prices on cash flow
and profits, said Biju Perincheril, an analyst at Jefferies &
Co. in  New York , who has a “buy” on Cabot shares and doesn’t
own any. At $98 a barrel, oil sells for six times as much as
gas, on an energy-equivalent basis, based on Bloomberg
calculations.  “The only concern is gas price,” Perincheril said in a
telephone interview. A shift into more crude output “would get
investors more interested.”  Pollution Concerns  Cabot’s drilling success has been marred by water
contamination near its Marcellus drilling operations.
Pennsylvania regulators in September cited Cabot for
“improper” well construction after a liner intended to prevent
seepage failed and methane showed up in a private water well in
Lenox, Pennsylvania. Cabot was cited for three violations and
given 30 days to correct the flaws in its well.  The company vented household water wells to eliminate risk
of fire or explosion and “tightened down” its gas wells,
Stark, the Cabot spokesman, said in a Jan. 9 interview. Methane
levels in the water wells fell during a period of two weeks,
Stark said.  In another Pennsylvania town, Dimock, Cabot agreed in a
December 2010 settlement with the state to provide fresh
drinking water, install water filters in homes and pay each
family twice the value of their home. Of $4.1 million set aside
to cover claims, $1.9 million has been claimed, the company said
earlier this month.  Providing Clean Water  On Jan. 19, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said
it was stepping in to provide clean water to four families in
Dimock, and testing water at 60 homes to assess whether
contamination lingers.  Cabot’s environmental missteps contributed to an
international debate over the safety of the intensive drilling
techniques that have enabled explorers to tap shale, a type of
formation previously too hard to be profitably drilled. The
process, known as hydraulic fracturing, involves shooting high-
pressure jets of water, chemicals and sand underground to crack
rock so gas and oil can flow.  Dinges’s background as a former land supervisor for Mobil
Corp. helped him discern the most-promising tracts in the
Marcellus formation from those less likely to yield gas
bonanzas, said Drew Venker, an analyst with Lazard Capital
Markets, who has a ‘neutral’ rating on Cabot shares and doesn’t
own any.  Richest Formation  When Cabot first ventured into the Marcellus region in 2007
and 2008, the company cobbled together leaseholds in
Pennsylvania that later would prove to be the richest in the
geologic formation, ISI’s Patel said.  The section of the Marcellus Shale under Cabot’s control is
about 370 feet thick, compared with 75 feet for other parts of
the formation, Patel said. In shale-gas fields, thickness
equates to the size of the resource.  “It all comes down to the rock,” Patel said. “I don’t
think they’re doing anything differently in the way they’re
drilling these wells. They just happened to have leased acreage
in the best part of the play.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston  at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  