-- California High-Speed Rail Project Relies on Risky Funding, Auditor Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-01-24T19:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/california-high-speed-rail-project-relies-on-risky-funding-auditor-says.html
California (STOCA1) ’s plan to build a high-
speed train network relies on risky funding and oversight of the
agency charged with building the rail lines remains weak,
according to a state audit.  While the  California  High-Speed Rail Authority names the
U.S. government as its largest potential funding source for the
$98.5 billion project, its business plan provides few details on
how it will obtain the money, state Auditor Elaine Howle said
today in a  report . The plan also leaves out $96.8 billion in
operating and maintenance costs from 2025 to 2060, she said.  California is the only U.S. state working to lay tracks for
trains to run as fast as 220 miles (354 kilometers) an hour. The
network would connect  San Francisco  to  Los Angeles  by 2033. On
Jan. 3, a legislative review panel recommended against selling
debt to start the project. Ten days later, the authority’s chief
executive officer and board chairman said they would step down.
Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, remains behind the project.  “We’re working with the auditor’s office on identifying
deficiencies and we’ll continue to work with them,” Lance
Simmens, an authority spokesman, said today by telephone. The
agency will deal with the auditor’s concerns in a revised
business plan to be released in the next month, he said.  Revenue Estimates  Howle also listed concerns that the authority’s revenue
estimates and ridership projections may not be accurate. The
projections are fundamental to attracting private investment.  Nothing in the audit suggests that the work should be
halted, Simmens said.  The state, which has received $3.5 billion in U.S. funds
for the project, has said it would need $17 billion to $19
billion in federal money for the work. Congress eliminated high-
speed rail funds requested for 2012. State voters in 2008
approved the sale of $9.95 billion in bonds to finance the work.
Most of the bonds haven’t been sold.  Howle said understaffing at the authority has left it
struggling to oversee contractors and subcontractors, who
outnumber agency employees by about 25 to 1. She said the
authority has delegated too much control to contractors and may
lack the information needed to make critical decisions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  