-- California-Blend Gasoline Strengthens After Valero Has Breakdown
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-01-24T00:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/california-blend-gasoline-strengthens-after-valero-has-breakdown.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  strengthened against gasoline futures after  Valero
Energy Corp. (VLO)  reported a breakdown at the  Wilmington (VAWICRUD)  oil refinery
in  Southern California  over the weekend.  Carbob in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  climbed 1.5 cents to a premium of 11
cents a gallon against gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Prompt-delivery of the fuel rose 1.62 cents to $2.8956 a gallon.  San Antonio-based Valero reported a breakdown at the
135,000-barrel-a-day Wilmington refinery Jan. 21 that may cause
the plant to flare through Jan. 28, according to a notice with
the  South Coast Air Quality Management District .  “The flaring was due to a problem with a compressor at the
vapor recovery unit,”  Bill Day , a Valero spokesman in  San
Antonio , said in an e-mailed statement. “The refinery remains
down for the turnaround, so no impact on production.”  Valero began shutting units at the plant Jan. 13 to perform
four weeks of work on the crude unit and coker. Other production
units will also be shut during the maintenance turnaround, Day
said.  Carbob in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  strengthened 1.5 cents to a premium
of 5 cents against futures.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  was starting units at the 95,000-barrel-a-day
 Kapolei (TEKACRUD)  refinery in  Hawaii  that were shut last week for
maintenance following multiple power failures, Tina Barbee, a
Tesoro spokeswoman at the company’s headquarters in San Antonio,
said in an e-mail.  Conducting Maintenance      The Kapolei plant was forced to shut some units and reduce
rates at others because of the interruptions, triggered by bad
weather, she said.  Tesoro is also conducting maintenance at the 170,000-
barrel-a-day  Martinez (TEMTCRUD)  refinery in Northern California and the
97,000-barrel-a-day  Wilmington (SHWCCRUD)  refinery in Southern California.
The company has the ability to ship refined products from its
California refineries to Hawaii.  California-blend diesel in  San Francisco (DIEISCAD)  was unchanged at a
discount of 1 cent a gallon against Nymex heating oil futures.
The same fuel in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD)  slipped 1.37 cents to a premium of
1.13 cent against futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland (MOGHD87P) ,  Oregon , fell
2 cents to a discount of 7.5 cents to futures, the lowest level
since Aug. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  