-- Canada Dollar Declines as November Retail Sales Pace Shows Economic Risk
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-24T22:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/canada-dollar-drops-versus-greenback-before-retail-sales-as-stocks-fall.html
Canada ’s dollar was little changed
versus its U.S. counterpart amid declining equities prices after
a report showed retail sales growth slowed in November,
highlighting the risks to the economy of indebted consumers.  The Canadian currency performed worse than 10 of its 16
most traded counterparts against the U.S. dollar as crude oil,
the nation’s largest export, slid. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark
Carney  has decried Canada’s reliance on “debt-fueled household
expenditures” as consumer leverage reaches record levels,
threatening the nation’s economic momentum.  “This reaffirms Carney’s concerns,” said Dean Popplewell,
head analyst in Toronto at the online-currency trading firm
Oanda Corp., in a telephone interview referring to the retail
sales report. “These are opportunities to sell the Canadian
dollar. Risk-aversion trades are very much favored.”  The currency, nicknamed the loonie, depreciated 0.01
percent to C$1.0090 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. Toronto time. It
dropped as much as 0.6 percent, the most on an intraday basis
since Jan. 13. One Canadian dollar buys 99.10 U.S. cents.  Retail sales rose 0.3 percent to C$38.7 billion ($38.3
billion) in November, compared with a revised 0.9 percent
increase in October,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a 0.2 percent
increase based on the median of 24 responses.  Carney is relying on consumers to contribute just more than
half of the country’s 2 percent economic growth rate this year,
with exports slowed by Europe’s debt crisis and a strong
currency. Household debt will also set new highs after reaching
153 percent of disposable income in the third quarter, the
central bank predicted last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  