-- Cardiff Beats Crystal Palace in Shootout to Reach Carling Cup Soccer Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-25T00:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/cardiff-beats-crystal-palace-in-carling-cup-semifinal-shootout.html
Cardiff beat Crystal Palace 3-1 in a
penalty shootout to reach the final of the Carling Cup, English
soccer’s second-tier cup competition, for the first time.  Tom Heaton made two saves in the shootout last night for
the Bluebirds, who will face record seven-time winner Liverpool
or Premier League leader  Manchester City  on Feb. 26.  “We’ll try to win the game -- we won’t just be there for
the day out,” Heaton told Sky Sports News. “We’ve got enough
about us in this team, with the players and the management, that
we can go and get a result.”  Cardiff, of the second-tier Championship, is the first team
from outside the top level to reach the final since Birmingham
City in 2001. It’s the third trip to Wembley Stadium in five
seasons for the Bluebirds after losses in the 2008 F.A. Cup
final and the 2010 Championship playoff final.  An own goal from Palace’s Anthony Gardner in the seventh
minute at Cardiff City Stadium left the teams tied 1-1 over the
two-game semifinal. Palace played the final 12 minutes of normal
time and 30 minutes of extra time with 10 men after defender
Patrick McCarthy received his second yellow card.  Cardiff had the better chances in the game with  Kenny Miller , Filip Kiss and Aron Gunnarsson hitting the post, the
last coming in the closing seconds of extra time.  Miller led off the shootout by firing over the goal, before
Heaton stopped Jermaine Easter’s attempt. After Cardiff’s Craig
Conway scored, Heaton dived to stop Sean Scannell’s penalty.  After each team scored with its next attempt, Peter Whittingham’s conversion gave Cardiff a 3-1 lead. Palace’s
Jonathan Parr then put his shot wide to decide the matter.  Liverpool takes a 1-0 lead over Manchester City into the
home leg of its semifinal tonight at Anfield.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 