-- Carried Interest Debate in Spotlight Amid Romney Tax Release
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-01-24T23:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/carried-interest-debate-gains-momentum.html
Democrats are reviving efforts to
end a tax break for private-equity and hedge-fund executives as
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s  tax return  shows
he used it to help limit his 2010 tax rate to 13.9 percent.  Representative  Sander Levin  and Senator  Carl Levin ,
brothers and fellow Michigan Democrats, said today they are
introducing legislation in their respective chambers. Carl Levin
said the higher revenue could be used to help avoid $1.2
trillion in across-the-board spending cuts set to begin taking
effect in 2013 under last year’s debt-reduction agreement.  “The public wants loopholes-closers, and the Romney tax
returns are a poster child of these loopholes,” said Carl
Levin, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. The
senator plans to introduce a measure to increase revenue and
favors limiting the tax break, his spokesman Gordon Trowbridge
said in an e-mail.  Romney, who made a fortune of as much as $250 million in
the private-equity industry, paid an effective  tax rate  of 13.9
percent on income of $21.6 million in 2010, according to his tax
return released today. That compares with the 35 percent top
marginal tax rate.  “The fact that one of the leading Republican presidential
candidates benefited to such a significant extent from this
egregious loophole only further illustrates the need to address
this issue once and for all,” Sander Levin, the ranking
Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, said in a
statement.  Carried Interest  At issue is the tax code’s treatment of carried interest,
or the share of profits that partners in private equity firms,
 hedge funds  and real estate developments receive as most of
their compensation. That income is taxed at the 15 percent
capital gains rate rather than at ordinary income rates.  Senator  Mike Crapo , an Idaho Republican, said regarding
proposals to raise the tax on carried interest, “I don’t think
there’s many economists would say that’s a good idea right
now.”  “We’ve been having these arguments for a long time, and I
don’t expect that the politics of the presidential races are
going to change that,” Crapo said.  Even so, Democrats said they will push to include the issue
in negotiations over extending a payroll tax holiday scheduled
to expire at the end of February.  “There’s no reason that hedge fund managers and private
equity guys should be getting a 15 percent rate when they don’t
put a dollar of their own capital in,” said Representative
 Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat.  ‘Not Fair’  The Obama administration and congressional Democrats are
seeking to benefit from the debate over the carried interest
provision. President  Barack Obama  views the tax break as a
“loophole” that is “just not fair,” White House Press
Secretary  Jay Carney  said last week.  The renewed effort to tax carried interest as ordinary
income may get a boost from Obama’s State of the Union address
tonight, which will include a theme of economic fairness.  For Obama and congressional Democrats, the issue’s appeal
is more symbolic than substantive. There is almost no chance
that a divided Congress this year would raise the  tax  rates that
apply to such income. Still, the notion that some of the
nation’s richest individuals pay lower tax rates than millions
of typical Americans dovetails with rising public concern about
the gap between rich and poor.  Pew Poll  A Pew Research Center poll earlier this month found that 66
percent of Americans saw a sharp conflict between rich and poor,
up from 47 percent in 2009. The largest increase in such
sentiments was among self-described independent voters.  Some Republicans defended the provision as an incentive for
business investment and said any move to eliminate preferences
should be part of a comprehensive rewrite of the  tax code .  “We want to look at the entirety of the tax code and put
it through intense examination” because “the demand is coming
from multiple quarters to do  tax reform ,” said Representative
Charles Boustany, a Louisiana Republican and a member of the
tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.  Georgia Republican  Tom Price , another member of the panel,
said increasing the tax on carried interest would harm job-
creation.  “If that’s what the Democrats want to do, let them have
it, but that’s the wrong thing,” Price said.  Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, said public
opinion is turning in favor of changing the carried interest
rate.  “I was just home for a week, I did 30 events and virtually
everywhere I went, people were talking to me, ‘how can it be
that somebody earning millions of dollars pays a lower tax rate
than we do,’” he said. “The public has got their interest
level up and they’re understanding better how it really works.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net 
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  