-- McDonald’s Drops on Forecast Currency Fluctuations Will Hurt 2012 Profit
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-01-24T21:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/mcdonald-s-fourth-quarter-profit-increases-as-u-s-same-store-sales-climb.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, fell the most in more than four months
as it forecast foreign-currency fluctuations would reduce profit
this year.  The  shares  fell 2.2 percent to $98.75 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline for the  Oak Brook , Illinois-based
company since Sept. 9. The shares gained 31 percent last year.  McDonald’s, which gets about 60 percent of its revenue
outside the U.S., said profit may be trimmed as the European
debt crisis sinks the region’s currency. Foreign-exchange
fluctuations may cut 2012 profit by as much as 18 cents a share
and first-quarter earnings by as much as 3 cents, Chief
Financial Officer Peter Bensen said today on a conference call.  “The one thing that concerns investors right now on this
name is on the currency side,” Peter Saleh, a restaurant
analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in  New York , said in an
interview. He had estimated currency fluctuations would reduce
McDonald’s profit by about 12 cents a share this year, and “if
the dollar strengthens, it could get worse,” he said.  Profit this year may be $5.73 a share, the average estimate
of 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. McDonald’s doesn’t provide
annual earnings forecasts.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, gained 7.6
percent in the past six months. The euro has sunk 9.3 percent
against the dollar in that time.  Profit Gains  Fourth-quarter  net income  rose 11 percent to $1.38 billion,
or $1.33 a share, from $1.24 billion, or $1.16, a year earlier,
the company said in a statement today. Analysts projected $1.30
a share, the average of 24 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
McDonald’s said foreign-currency translation had no effect on
earnings for the quarter.  Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner has sought to draw U.S.
consumers with value-priced items on the Dollar Menu and
limited-time offers, such as the McRib sandwich. The restaurant
is promoting a snack portion of Chicken McBites this month for
$1.99 as U.S. consumer  confidence  continues to rise from a two-
and-a-half year low.  The restaurant, along with other food sellers, has raised
menu prices to help recoup higher raw ingredient costs.
McDonald’s most recent U.S. price increase -- less than 1
percent -- was in November, Bensen said during the call.  “Where warranted, we will strategically take increases to
offset some, but not all, of our higher costs,” he said.  Commodity Forecast  McDonald’s repeated a forecast that commodity costs will
rise as much as 5.5 percent in the U.S. and as much as 3.5
percent in  Europe  in 2012.  Margin at company-operated locations narrowed to 18.7
percent in the quarter, from 19 percent a year earlier, the
company said in a filing. Revenue increased 9.8 percent to $6.82
billion, matching analysts’ estimates.  McDonald’s had 33,510 stores globally, more than 80 percent
of which were franchise operated, as of Dec. 31. The company
will spend $2.9 billion this year to open 1,300 new restaurants
and remodel 2,400 locations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  