-- CEOs Concerned About Economy While Upbeat on Revenues, PwC Says
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-01-24T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/ceos-concerned-about-economy-while-upbeat-on-revenues-pwc-says.html
Chief executive officers are more
confident about the prospects for their own companies than they
are for the world economy in 2012, according to a  survey  by
PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Forty-eight percent of the 1,258 CEOs polled said they
expect the global economy to decline in strength this year, with
15 percent saying it will improve. By contrast, 40 percent said
they are “very confident” of revenue growth for their own
companies and more than half expect to increase headcount.  The survey was published as CEOs including Mark Parker of
 Nike Inc. (NKE)  and Brian Moynihan of Bank of America Corp. gather in
the Swiss ski resort of Davos for the  World Economic Forum ’s
annual meeting. It suggests companies are more downbeat than a
year ago, when PwC found almost half were “very confident”
about their businesses.  “CEOs are disappointed with the course of the global
economy and pace of recovery,” said Dennis M. Nally, chairman
of PricewaterhouseCoopers International. “Many CEOs are
confident they can deliver revenue growth despite the difficult
conditions.”  The biggest decline in confidence was in crisis-struck
Western  Europe , where just a quarter of CEOs said they were very
confident of revenue growth, down from almost 40 percent last
year. Fifty-one percent of Chinese corporate chiefs had the same
sentiment, compared with 72 percent a year ago.  Fiscal Policy  Eighty percent of business leaders expressed concern about
the uncertain economic outlook, while 64 percent were worried by
instability in  capital markets . Two-thirds identified fiscal
policy as a threat and 56 percent said their company had been
financially affected by Europe’s debt crisis.  Over the longer term, 46 percent of respondents said they
were “very confident” of growth prospects in the next three
years, a fall of five percentage points from last year.  Despite the economic concerns, companies are poised to keep
hiring, with only 18 percent of those surveyed saying they
planned to cut their workforce this year. Fifty-three percent of
CEOs said a potential lack of talent is a threat to expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  