-- Charter Rates Plummet With Least Baltic Ice Since 1720: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-01-24T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/charter-rates-plummet-with-least-baltic-ice-since-1720-freight.html
Oil tankers may plow through the
smallest amount of  Baltic Sea  ice in almost three centuries this
year, speeding up deliveries and driving charter rates to the
lowest since at least 1997.  This winter will be similar to or milder than 2007-08, when
the ice shrank to its smallest since records began in 1720, the
Finnish Meteorological Institute says.  Aframaxes (BTCEAFRA) , hauling about
730,000 barrels of oil, will earn $12,625 a day in 2012, the
median of 12 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.
Investors may profit by selling forward freight agreements,
traded by brokers and used to bet on transport costs, which
anticipate $19,784 on the Baltic-Northwest  Europe  route.  The Baltic Sea accounts for 12 percent of global demand for
aframaxes, each about 830 feet long, and the vessels reduce
speeds to navigate through ice, prolonging journeys and boosting
income for owners. Shrinking ice in the region, home to  Russia ’s
biggest oil-export terminal, is worsening a capacity glut that
already caused rates to tumble 46 percent last year.  “The ice season is like the  Christmas shopping season  for
aframaxes,” said Sverre Bjorn Svenning, an Oslo-based analyst
at Fearnley Consultants A/S, a unit of  Norway ’s second-largest
shipbroker. “If it doesn’t come,  results  will be poorer than
anticipated.”  Aframax rates fell 18 percent to $14,380 this year,
according to the London-based Baltic Exchange, which publishes
freight costs along more than 50 maritime routes. That compares
with an  11-fold advance  in costs for the largest oil tankers,
which carry about 2 million barrels of crude. The  MSCI All-
Country World Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 5.4 percent as Treasuries
lost 0.6 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Climate Service  Ice in the Baltic Sea now covers about 29,000 square
kilometers (11,200 square miles), an area larger than  Maryland ,
according to Jouni Vainio, a scientist at the institute in
Helsinki. That compares with 163,000 square kilometers at this
time last year, and the ice typically peaks in early March, he
said.  Temperatures in  Finland , to the north of the Baltic Sea,
averaged minus 2.9 degrees Celsius (27 degrees Fahrenheit) so
far this winter, about 5 degrees warmer than the average from
1971 to 2000, according to the country’s Climate Service Center.  About 11 percent of the aframax fleet is equipped to sail
through icy waters, according to data from RS Platou Markets AS,
an Oslo-based investment bank. Those ships cost as much as $12
million more to build than conventional vessels and burn an
extra 4 metric tons of fuel a day because they are heavier and
have thicker propellers.  Winter Ice  Fuel is the single biggest operating cost for most ships.
The price of so-called bunkers rose 32 percent to $696.91 a ton
in the past 12 months and reached the highest level since at
least October 2008 on Jan. 20, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from 25 ports.  Owners (TANKER)  rely on the winter ice to bolster rates and cover
the additional costs of building ships capable of navigating
through floes. In the past eight years, first-quarter earnings
for vessels hauling Baltic Sea cargoes to northwest Europe on
average were 24 percent higher than the rest of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A colder-than-anticipated winter may drive aframax rates
higher. Below-average temperatures are expected in the next two
weeks, potentially increasing the amount of ice, said Pauli
Jokinen of the Finnish climate center.  Owners may also boost earnings by demolishing, idling or
slowing down their ships to cut fuel costs. Aframaxes sailed at
an average of 8.2 knots in December and 219 were anchored,
compared with 9.3 knots and 174 anchored a year earlier,
according to ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.  National Oil  Demand for the vessels could also strengthen outside the
Baltic region. Shipments from  Libya , which halted during the
uprising that ousted  Muammar Qaddafi  last year, reached 800,000
barrels a day in December, compared with 555,000 a month
earlier, according to the  International Energy Agency . Aframaxes
accounted for 74 percent of the 54 tankers booked to load Libyan
crude since September, data from New York-based shipbroker Poten
& Partners show.  The vessels may also find more cargoes in  Asia .  China , the
world’s second-biggest economy after the U.S., will consume 4.2
percent more oil this year, almost four times the anticipated
gain globally, according to the IEA, an adviser to 28
industrialized nations.  China’s economy  will expand 8.5 percent,
compared with 2.3 percent in the U.S., the median of as many as
72 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Energy Agency  The aframax fleet will expand 3.6 percent this year as
global oil demand advances 1.2 percent, according to data from
London-based  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker, and
the Paris-based IEA. Outstanding orders at shipyards, led by
 South Korea  and China, are equal to 8.5 percent of existing
capacity, according to data from Redhill, England-based IHS
Fairplay.  OAO Sovcomflot, based in Moscow, has 52 aframaxes, making
it the world’s largest owner of the vessels. The state
controlled firm’s ships collected the most cargoes of any owner
in the past year from Primorsk, the biggest loading port in the
Baltic Sea, ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sovcomflot’s dollar-denominated bonds due in 2017 yielded a
record 290 basis points, or 2.90 percentage points, more than
the April 2018 dollar debt of state-controlled OAO Gazprom, the
country’s gas export monopoly, on Jan. 10. They yielded 266
basis points more on Jan. 17, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The effect of a mild winter in the Baltic on the aframax
market could be sizable,” said Thomas Zwick, an analyst at
Lorentzen & Stemoco AS, a shipping consultant in Oslo. “It
removes owners’ opportunities for periods of super profits and
thus has a significant adverse impact on average earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  