-- Chemring Reviews Future of Philadelphia Plant on Cutbacks
-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 2012-01-24T14:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/chemring-may-shut-philadelphia-plant-on-u-s-military-cutbacks.html
Chemring Group Plc (CHG) , the developer of
missile-avoidance equipment for the Joint Strike Fighter, said
it may close a plant in Philadelphia following reduced demand in
advance of NATO troop withdrawals from Afghanistan.  “We are going through the reviewing process,” including
whether demand can be met by operating a single factory, after
Chemring shut one of its three countermeasures sites in the U.S.
city last year, Chief Executive Officer  David Price  said in a
phone interview today.  The company, based in Fareham,  England , is considering how
much capacity is needed at its U.S. division that produces
decoys for protecting helicopters and transport aircraft, as
U.S. and European governments scale back military stockpiles
while preparing to pull troops out of  Afghanistan  by 2015.
Declines in countermeasures business tied to the withdrawal have
been compensated for by demand for flares as well as products
for protecting combat aircraft and ships, Price said.  Net income in the year through Oct. 31 rose 11 percent to
73.9 million pounds ($115 million) as sales jumped 25 percent to
745.3 million pounds, Chemring said today in a statement. Pretax
profit increased 1.9 percent to 90.8 million pounds, missing the
128.9 million-pound average of 12 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chemring  dropped  as much as 14 percent to 385.5 pence, the
biggest intraday drop since Nov. 18, and trading at 395.4 pence
at 1:50 p.m. in  London .  Regional Shift  Revenue from outside North Atlantic Treaty Organization
member countries increased 81 percent and accounted for 29
percent of group sales last year compared with 20 percent a year
earlier, Chemring said. Underlying operating profit at the
countermeasures unit fell 21 percent, while sales at the
division increased 3 percent.  The company already moved to increase its revenue from non
NATO countries, as it “wanted to follow where the money is,”
Price said. Countries like India and  Brazil  are investing more
in their equipment as they are looking to improve their
capability.  The manufacturer is considering “a bit of a slowdown” in
the pace of acquisitions, following an average of two to three
annually in recent years, to protect its balance sheet, Price
said. Chemring  bought   General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s detection-systems
unit in July.  “In general across the industry the feeling is that
gearing needs to be reduced,” Price added. The U.K. company
today said it’s also considering a share buyback of as much as
50 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  