-- Chesapeake Stalls Slide in Gas Prices With Cutbacks in Drilling
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/chesapeake-stalls-slide-in-gas-prices-with-cutbacks-in-drilling.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-
biggest natural-gas producer in the U.S., accelerated an
industry effort to cut back drilling to try to stop a price
decline that saw gas slide to a 10-year low last week.  Gas prices, as well as producers’ shares, surged as much as
10 percent after the move by Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake,
which accounts for 9 percent of U.S. gas output. The company’s
plan to idle 24 natural-gas rigs by the second quarter is a 69
percent reduction from 2011.  The effect may be short-lived. An improving price is likely
to encourage many producers to maintain or increase output,
Michael Hall, an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co., wrote in a
note to clients.  “Excess supply, even after curtailments in production and
activity, is likely to return quickly to the market in the event
of a price recovery,” Hall wrote in a note to clients
yesterday.  Chesapeake said it will cut spending on gas wells to $900
million this year from $3.1 billion in 2011.  Gas for February delivery rose 18.2 cents to settle at
$2.525 per million British thermal units yesterday.  Gas prices 
for next-month delivery had fallen 50 percent in the 12 months
ending Jan. 20.  More Cuts Coming  How much the cuts will slow production and prop up prices
in the short term depends on how many rivals also cut drilling,
said  Scott Hanold , a Minneapolis-based analyst for  RBC Capital
Markets .  “You’ll see more coming this quarter,” Hanold said in an
interview.  Encana Corp. (ECA) , Canada’s largest natural-gas producer, will
reduce drilling in the Haynesville Shale, centered in Louisiana,
by half this year, Ryder McRitchie, the Calgary-based company’s
 investor relations  chief, said in a Jan. 19 investor conference
call.  “Encana sees Haynesville Shale production down 20 percent
this year, very bullish for natural gas if that’s right, ”
Raymond Deacon, a Boston-based analyst for Brean Murray Carret &
Co. said yesterday in an e-mail. “We are starting to see signs
gas is putting in a floor.”  Ultra Petroleum Corp. (UPL) , a gas producer that’s been moving
into the Marcellus Shale, will reduce  capital spending  this year
“significantly” from $1.4 billion in 2011, Kelly Whitley, head
of investor relations for the Houston-based company, said
yesterday in an interview.  ‘Bare Minimum’ Drilling  Chesapeake will maintain its gas drilling at “bare minimum
levels” until profits can compete with oil, Chesapeake Chairman
and Chief Executive officer Aubrey McClendon said in yesterday’s
statement.  Chesapeake’s output cut follows  EQT Corp. (EQT) ’s Jan. 20
announcement that it will suspend drilling in its Huron Field in
Kentucky.  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN)  Chief Executive Officer Steven Mueller said in a Jan. 5 interview his company may slow
production in Arkansas’s Fayetteville Shale if prices stay low.
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , a Calgary-based producer with acreage in
the Marcellus, said Jan. 10 it will cut spending on drilling by
$500 million, to just more than $4 billion this year.  Chesapeake rose 6.3 percent to close at $22.28 in  New York .
Southwestern Energy Co. rose 10.3 percent to close at $32.46;
Ecana rose 7.4 percent to C$19.00 at the close in Toronto.  U.S. gas sales in 2011 rose by about 4.5 billion cubic feet
a day, or 7.4 percent, the largest annual gain in history,
according to the  Energy Information Administration . Hydraulic
fracturing, the practice of injecting water, sand and chemicals
underground to release gas from shale-rock formations, has
swelled available U.S. resources and production.  Weather, Pollution Rules  Other factors are contributing to low gas prices, including
mild winter weather and postponement of new federal pollution
rules that would have encouraged electric generators to use more
gas, Teri Viswanath, director of commodity strategy BNP Paribas
in Houston.  Some of the cuts in gas drilling may be offset as more
companies, such as Chesapeake and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  shift
drilling to  oil wells  that also yield gas. The number of gas
rigs fell to 780 on Jan. 20, a two-year low, according to  Baker
Hughes Inc. (BHI)  The number of rigs drilling for oil jumped to 1,223,
the most since Baker Hughes started counting oil and gas rigs
separately in 1987.  In the oil-rich Eagle Ford Shale of Texas, a third of
output, or 2.5 million cubic feet per well a day, may be gas,
said Hanold, the RBC analyst. That compares to 15 million cubic
feet a day produced by the typical Haynesville gas well, he
said.  Joint Venture Infusions  Gas produced from oil wells probably accounts for about 10
percent of the roughly 75 billion cubic feet per day produced
from onshore U.S. wells outside of Alaska, Hanold said.  Gas drilling also is being supported by a series of joint
ventures in the industry that have brought more cash to
producers to fund their operations, even at low prices.  Companies from Asia and  Europe  are buying stakes in shale
fields and partnering with producers to gain knowledge they can
use to develop shale formations in other parts of the world,
Howard Gruenspecht, acting administrator for the U.S. Energy
Information Administration said yesterday at a press conference
in  Washington .  “A lot of the world is very interested in this technology
for shale production, and there’ve been a lot of buy-ins into
shale gas producers,’ Gruenspecht said. ‘‘There’s gas, there’s
liquids and there is knowledge that are driving the drilling
business.”  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is the largest U.S. gas producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  