-- Citadel Capital’s Heikal Sees Interest in Egypt Food, Transport
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-01-24T17:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/citadel-capital-s-heikal-sees-interest-in-egypt-food-transport.html
Citadel Capital SAE (CCAP) ’s Chairman Ahmed Heikal, whose private equity firm has more than $9 billion in
investments, sees “strong” interest from foreign investors in
 Egypt ’s food, transport, and distribution companies.  “Egypt has more than 80 million citizens, they still need
to eat,” Heikal, who is attending the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland , said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“The businesses that serve them still need effective transport
and logistics solutions. We still need domestic refining
capacity. Household and industry alike still need to be hooked
up to the natural gas distribution grid.”  Egypt’s foreign direct investment plunged to $375.5 million
in the first nine months of 2011 from $5.7 billion a year
earlier, according to the most recent central bank data. Seven
weeks of elections have failed to allay tensions between the
activists who ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  and the military
council that took power from him. Protesters are calling for
mass rallies tomorrow, the anniversary of the start of the
uprising.  Tourist arrivals fell 33 percent last year, while
international reserves are at the lowest level since March 2005.
Egypt formally requested a $3.2 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  on Jan. 16 to help it support the
economy.  ‘Strong Interest’  Citadel Capital’s funds control companies investing in 15
countries including Egypt,  Kenya , Sudan and  South Africa  in
industries ranging from food to transport, mining, cement and
energy. The company raised 1.05 billion Egyptian pounds ($173.9
million) in a capital increase from its regional co-investors
last year. It also raised $234 million in equity and debt for
its railway investment in Kenya and Uganda, in addition to $150
million from the U.S. Overseas Private Investment Co.  “Opportunities to create value as a private equity
investor are still very much there, particularly when your
investments are in the right side of macro trends,” Heikal
said. “It is in sectors such as these that we see strong
interest” from international private equity investors, he said.  Citadel Capital shares , listed in Cairo, gained 4.3 percent
this year, trailing the 14.2 percent increase in Egypt’s
benchmark  EGX 30 Index .  The Cairo-based company said Jan. 9 one of its funds agreed
to sell its stake in  National Petroleum Co. (9937)  Egypt Ltd. to
Calgary, Canada-based  Sea Dragon Energy Inc. (SDX)  for $147.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Davos at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  