-- Citigroup to Weigh More Cuts in Securities Unit If Revenue Doesn’t Rebound
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-01-25T01:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/citigroup-to-weigh-more-cuts-in-securities-unit-if-revenue-doesn-t-rebound.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank , will consider further spending cuts at its securities
unit after an investment of almost $1 billion in the business
last year failed to boost revenue.  The lender, which last week announced 1,200 job reductions
to save $600 million this year at the Securities and Banking
division, will “further restructure” if revenue doesn’t
rebound in 2012, Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said on a
conference call yesterday. Profit at the unit fell 24 percent
last year to $4.9 billion as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
rattled world markets, New York-based Citigroup said last week.  “We are not oblivious to the fact that our cost structure
cannot be justified by our current revenue,” Gerspach said.
“While much of the current difficulty reflects market
conditions, we equally have some management and execution
challenges.”  The retrenchment shows how a global slowdown in deal-making
and trading has thwarted Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit ’s
efforts since the bank’s $45 billion U.S. bailout in 2008 to
increase revenue, in part by recruiting talent. Revenue in the
securities unit is down 21 percent since 2009, while
compensation and other operating costs have climbed 15 percent.  Citigroup gained 5 cents to $29.90 in  New York . The shares
have dropped 38 percent in the past year.  ‘Operating Leverage’  Gerspach, 58, said Citigroup needs the business to improve
“operating leverage,” which happens when a company increases
revenue faster than costs. The Securities and Banking unit
includes stock and bond trading, mergers advice and equity and
debt underwriting.  “We must either drive revenue growth and operating
leverage, or we will have to restructure, cut capacity and cut
expenses,” he said.  The unit is run by  James Forese , 48, who reports to Chief
Operating Officer  John Havens , 55.  Gerspach said results in equities trading and  investment
banking  were “disappointing.”  Revenue from investment banking, which includes merger
advisory and securities underwriting, fell 14 percent to $3.31
billion last year. Raymond McGuire and Tyler Dickson run that
department. Revenue from equities-trading, led by Derek Bandeen,
fell 21 percent to $2.76 billion.  Phone calls for the executives either weren’t returned or
were referred to Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a bank spokeswoman,
who declined to comment on their behalf.  ‘Upgraded Talent’  The bank invested $3.9 billion last year in all of its
businesses, including initiatives to meet regulatory
requirements, modernize branches and boost spending on consumer
marketing, Pandit said during a Jan. 17 conference call with
analysts and investors.  “We also upgraded talent in both our institutional and
consumer businesses,” Pandit, 55, said then.  The securities unit accounted for “a little less than $1
billion” of the investments, Gerspach said.  “We identified businesses in S&B that we believed were
strategically important to our long-term success, but where we
lacked scale,” Gerspach said. “Our investment spending left us
with less expense flexibility in 2011, particularly as markets
began to weaken in the second half of the year.”  ‘Expensive Traders’  Job cuts that began late last year eventually will total
5,000, Gerspach told reporters last week, or about 1.9 percent
of the company’s 266,000 employees as of Dec. 31. About 1,200 of
the job cuts will come from the securities and investment-
banking unit, Gerspach said.  “It was unwise to spend significant sums of money hiring
expensive traders and investment bankers,” said Richard Staite,
an analyst with Atlantic Equities LLC who has an “overweight”
rating on the bank’s shares. “Citigroup should focus on lower-
risk activities, particularly transaction services,  consumer
banking  and straightforward corporate banking.”  Until European officials forge an “achievable and
sustainable” resolution to the crisis, markets will continue to
experience “periods of calm and then followed by a period of
uncertainty,” Gerspach said.  “Europe continues to remain an overhang on the market,”
he said. “It still is very much up to Europe to figure out
whether or not they can come up with an achievable restructuring
that will settle things down on a more permanent basis. And I
think that’s yet to be seen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 