-- Clearwire Rises After Fourth-Quarter Sales Beat Estimates
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-01-24T21:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/clearwire-shares-jump-after-fourth-quarter-sales-beat-estimates.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the money-losing
wireless broadband provider, advanced after reporting
preliminary fourth-quarter sales that doubled, beating analysts’
estimates.  Clearwire  gained  2.8 percent to $1.81 at the close in New
York. The shares fell 62 percent last year.  Sales probably jumped to $362 million in the period from
$181 million a year earlier, the Bellevue, Washington-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts predicted $356.3
million, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, which is trying to build out a higher-speed
long-term evolution, or LTE, network, said it probably added
about 900,000 wholesale customers, for a total of 9.1 million
such subscribers during the period. Clearwire may have had 1.3
million retail customers at the year’s end.  The results show there’s still increasing demand for
fourth-generation services,  Walter Piecyk , an analyst with BTIG
LLC in New York, said in a telephone interview.  “There were analysts only a couple a months ago who were
talking about the risk that wholesale net additions were going
to go to zero, and 900,000 is a far cry from zero” said Piecyk,
who has a “buy”  rating  on the stock.  Clearwire, which has been raising money through both debt
and stock offerings to build out its LTE network, said in a
separate statement today that it plans to offer $300 million in
senior secured notes.  That’s a “positive step for a company whose stock is at
this point implying they’re going bankrupt,” Piecyk said.
“It’s hard to say that’s the case when they have over $1
billion in cash and potentially another 300 million coming in
via debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  