-- Collective Brands Seen Rising 87% With Private Equity
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-01-24T14:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/collective-brands-seen-rising-87-with-equity.html
Collective Brands Inc. (PSS)  may extract
the biggest takeover premium of any apparel retailer in the
world as the maker of Saucony and Sperry Top-Sider shoes lures
private equity buyers.  Collective Brands, which said in August it was reviewing
options to boost  shareholder value , may attract interest from
buyout firms and rivals such as  Wolverine World Wide Inc. (WWW)  when
bids are due next week, according to people familiar with the
process. The company, which also owns the Payless ShoeSource
chain, could be worth as much as $27 a share based on the value
of its  separate businesses , Morningstar Inc. said.  While the 87 percent premium would be the largest of any
deal in the industry worth at least $100 million, it still
allows acquirers to get Collective Brands at half the price of
its competitors relative to sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In a breakup, an apparel company could keep the
wholesale brands, which boosted sales by 25 percent in the first
nine months of 2011, while a private equity firm would run the
Payless chain for its  cash flow , Auriga USA LLC said.  “On the retail side of the business, this seems like
almost a perfect set-up for a private equity company,” R.J. Hottovy, director of consumer research at Chicago-based
Morningstar, said in a telephone interview. “The wholesale
brands alone would be an attractive acquisition target for any
of the major branded footwear players.”  Stephanie Waugh, a spokeswoman for Topeka, Kansas-based
Collective Brands, declined to comment on whether the company
was soliciting bids to sell itself.  Today’s Trading  Christi Cowdin, a spokeswoman for Rockford, Michigan-based
Wolverine, which owns the Hush Puppies and Merrell brands,
didn’t respond to a telephone call for comment.  Shares of Collective Brands climbed 3.7 percent to $15.49
at 9:53 a.m. in  New York , the  biggest advance  among 63 companies
in the Standard and Poor’s Midcap Consumer Discretionary Index.  Payless ShoeSource Inc. became Collective Brands after
acquiring Stride Rite Corp. in August 2007. Its retail
operations, which included about 3,800 Payless ShoeSource
outlets in the U.S. last fiscal year, accounted for 80 percent
of revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rest
came from its wholesale business, which supplies Saucony,  Sperry
Top-Sider , Stride Rite and Keds shoes to retailers.  After  plunging  71 percent from its all-time high in May
2007 and reporting same-store sales declines for four
consecutive years, Collective Brands said on Aug. 24 that it
would review “a full range” of alternatives. In the same span,
the S&P Midcap Consumer Discretionary Index fell 10 percent.  Relative Value  The decision came two months after Matthew Rubel resigned
as Collective Brands’ chairman and chief executive officer.  With the deadline for bids due by the end of January,
according to a person familiar with the process who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly, Collective Brands’ stock ended at
$14.94 yesterday, or 0.26 times its sales on a per-share basis.
Bidders may pair up later in the process, the person said.  At that valuation, the company was cheaper than any apparel
retailer with a market capitalization greater than $500 million,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company could get a takeover offer of as much as $27 a
share, or $1.6 billion, using a sum-of-the-parts analysis,
according to Morningstar. The wholesale business alone could
command $1 billion, or about $100 million more than the
retailer’s market capitalization yesterday, according to a note
last week from Hottovy.  A price of $27 a share would represent an 87 percent
premium to the stock’s  average price  over the last 20 trading
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Interesting Purchase’  Even at that level, Collective Brands would still be valued
at a 52 percent discount to  revenue . That compares with 0.96
times for the median apparel retailer worldwide, the data show.  “Fundamentally the company has not been performing well,”
 Timothy Ghriskey , who oversees $2 billion as chief investment
officer of Solaris Group in  Bedford Hills , New York, said in a
phone interview. Still, while the stock is discounted “for a
reason,” it “does represent significant value. This could be
an interesting purchase for private equity,” he said.  A buyout firm could acquire the retail business and close
more money-losing stores to boost profitability, according to
Claire Gallacher, an analyst for New York-based Auriga.
Collective Brands lost almost 13 cents on each dollar of sales
in the three months ended October, Bloomberg data show.  Facing competition from shoe departments at retailers such
as  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the company already
said last year that it will close almost 500 “under-performing
and low-volume” stores in the next three years.  ‘Slash and Burn’  “You just slash and burn and get rid of the stores that
are underperforming and then suddenly you have a business that’s
generating revenue, that’s healthy,” Gallacher said.  Christopher Svezia, an analyst at Susquehanna International
Group LLP in New York, says Collective Brands’ almost $400
million in  net debt  may deter some buyout firms from paying up
for its assets. It already had 4.3 times more debt than earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
last 12 months, the highest level among apparel retailers
greater than $500 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If the private equity firm is accessing the debt markets
to capitalize this, it becomes even intensely more levered,” he
said in a telephone interview. “It remains a head scratcher in
terms of how this looks three years from now.”  Collective Brands could still make sense in an acquisition
if a private equity firm teamed up with one of Collective
Brands’ competitors such as Wolverine and split the company into
pieces, according to Morningstar’s Hottovy.  Sales at Collective Brands’ wholesale unit jumped 25
percent in the first nine months last year, according to a
regulatory filing, versus a 16 percent increase for Wolverine.  “It’d just be a matter of leveraging new brands” through
Wolverine’s distribution network, Hottovy said. The retail unit
“is a dream scenario for a private equity company getting it at
an attractive valuation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 