-- Eurohypo to Lose Second Profit Certificates Case
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-01-24T15:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/commerzbank-s-eurohypo-division-to-lose-profit-certificates-appeal-case.html
(Corrects spelling of “illegal” in lawyer statement in
9th paragraph.)  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s  Eurohypo (EHY)  unit is
likely to lose a second case over so-called profit certificates
filed by a U.S. hedge fund, a judge said at a hearing today.  The Frankfurt appeals court will probably rule in favor of
QVT Financial LP, which brought the case, Associate Judge Klaus
Maier said in a preliminary assessment. QVT won in a lower court
over certificates originally issued by Hypothekenbank in Essen
AG and is likely to now also win on those issued by Rheinische
Hypothekenbank AG, Maier said.  Commerzbank (CBK)  acquired Eurohypo in 2007 and agreed to cover
any losses by its unit under the terms of a so-called profit-
transfer and domination accord. After being bailed out following
the financial crisis, Commerzbank stopped the payments in 2009.  “Profit certificate owners in these circumstances need at
least as much protection as shareholders,” said Maier. “They
may even need more because they have no influence on contracts
changing corporate structure which shareholders get to vote
on.”  Commerzbank last week said it would be able to raise more
capital than necessary to fill a 5.3 billion-euro ($6.9 billion)
shortfall identified by the European Banking Authority.
Commerzbank is trying to sell Eurohypo by the end of 2014 as a
condition for its rescue by the German state following the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Profit-Transfer and Domination  Because the 2007 profit-transfer and domination accord
between Commerzbank and Eurohypo didn’t address profit
certificate owners, the court must add rules the parties would
have agreed on in good faith, had they thought about it, Maier
said. Those rules would require Eurohypo to pay, he said.  Eurohypo attorney Manfred Hechtl argued the certificate
owners profited from the fact that Commerzbank took over
Eurohypo. Had Eurohypo remained on its own, it would have
suffered from the sovereign debt crisis, leaving losses with
investors, he said.  QVT attorney Josef Broich rejected the argument, saying it
turned the situation upside down.  “The real fortune hunter here is Commerzbank,” said
Broich. “By illegally withholding payments in the securities,
the lender pushed their trading pricing down and at the same
time took advantage of by buying them back cheap.”  Profit certificates are securities that entitle the holder
to a portion of a company’s profits without giving them any
ownership interest. Commerzbank had a 2009 loss of about 4.5
billion euros, with Eurohypo’s deficit totaling 902 million
euros.  Today’s case is OLG Frankfurt am Main, 5 U 92/11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Frankfurt via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  