-- Commerzbank, JPMorgan, Megaupload, Goldman, Macy’s, HSBC in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-24T11:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/commerzbank-jpmorgan-megaupload-goldman-hsbc-in-court-news.html
More than 100 bankers claim
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  broke a pledge by Dresdner Bank, which it bought
in 2009, to set aside about $516 million for bonuses and are
asking a U.K. court this week to order that they be paid.  In the trial, scheduled to begin tomorrow in  London , the
former Dresdner bankers seek about 50 million euros ($64.5
million), with individual payouts of as much as 2 million euros.
The suit is the largest in the U.K. over bonus cuts resulting
from the financial crisis following the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  After buying the bank, Commerzbank slashed by as much as 90
percent bonuses promised to workers by former Dresdner Chief
Executive Officer Stefan Jentzsch, the claimants said in court
papers. Germany’s second biggest lender argues it shouldn’t have
to make the payments because of record losses at Dresdner after
Lehman’s demise.  “Commerzbank will show that Dresdner Bank was entitled to
reduce its employees’ 2008 discretionary bonuses in the light of
the significant deterioration in the investment bank’s
performance in late 2008,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  Witnesses at the Dresdner trial will include Jentzsch and
current Commerzbank CEO  Martin Blessing , along with current and
former Dresdner employees. Commerzbank has already faced other
lawsuits in London, Germany and Singapore from workers who said
they weren’t paid what they were due after the 2009 takeover. It
won the German case and has settled others in London.  The cases include Fahmi Anar & Others v. Dresdner Kleinwort
Ltd., Commerzbank AG, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division, HQ09X05230 and Richard Attrill & 71 others v. Dresdner
Kleinwort Ltd., Commerzbank AG, HQ09X04007  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Sued by John Hancock Over Mortgage Securities  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  was sued by Manulife Financial Corp.’s
John Hancock Life Insurance unit, which accused the bank of
fraud in connection with the sale of residential mortgage-backed
securities.  The lawsuit, filed yesterday in  New York  state  Supreme
Court  in Manhattan, seeks unspecified damages for losses of
market value and principal and interest payments, as well as
rescission and recovery of payment for the investments.  John Hancock bought the securities “in reliance on the
false and misleading” statements made by the defendants, which
include Bear Stearns & Co. and  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , both of
which were acquired by JPMorgan, lawyers for the Boston-based
insurer said in the lawsuit.  “Based on these material misrepresentations and omissions,
plaintiffs purchased securities that were far riskier than had
been represented, backed by mortgage loans worth significantly
less than had been represented, and that had been made to
borrowers who were much less creditworthy than had been
represented,” attorneys for John Hancock said in the lawsuit.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  The case is John Hancock Life Insurance Co. v.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , 650195/2012, New York state Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Sued by Sealink Over Mortgage Securities  Morgan Stanley was sued by Sealink Funding Ltd., which
accused the bank of fraud in connection with more than $556
million in residential mortgage-backed securities.  Sealink, a fund created to manage Landesbank Sachsen AG’s
riskiest assets after the German lender almost collapsed, filed
the lawsuit in New York state Supreme Court in Manhattan on Jan.
20.  The securities were bought between 2006 and 2007 using
information provided by Morgan Stanley, which said it had
conducted due diligence on the lenders of the mortgages on which
the investments were based and assured Sealink that the loans
met underwriting standards and deserved the AAA ratings they
were assigned, lawyers for Sealink said in a statement.  “In truth, and as Sealink and the world would only later
discover, the originators whose loans collateralized the Morgan
Stanley RMBS at issue were among the worst of the worst culprits
in the subprime lending industry,” Sealink said in the lawsuit.  Lauren Onis, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, didn’t
immediately comment on the lawsuit in a telephone interview.  Sealink filed similar suits against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
and Bank of America’s Countrywide unit in September. Pools of
home loans securitized into bonds were a central part of the
housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the biggest
recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed, and the
crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the market for
the securities evaporated.  The case is Sealink Funding Ltd. v. Morgan Stanley,
650196/2012, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Macy’s Sues  Martha Stewart  Living Over Exclusivity Agreement  Macy’s Inc. (M)  sued Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc.
seeking to enforce an agreement allowing its department stores
exclusive rights to sell certain Martha Stewart-branded
products.  The retailer filed a complaint in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan yesterday aimed at stopping New York-based
Martha Stewart Living from executing a new sales agreement with
J.C. Penney Co., according to court documents.  Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, renewed a 2006 agreement for
Martha Stewart-branded products, such as cookware, kitchen
utensils and bed and bath items, for another five years,  Jim
Sluzewski , a spokesman for the retailer, said in an e-mail. It
expires in January 2018, Sluzewski said.  The lawsuit seeks to enforce the agreement “in which the
right for Macy’s to sell product exclusively in these categories
was clearly outlined,” Sluzewski said.  “Macy’s plans to fully support its exclusive Martha
Stewart-branded product going forward,” Sluzewski said.
“Martha Stewart is among a wide range of leading brands offered
in Macy’s home store and we will continue to expand and improve
our home offering based on localized customer preferences across
the country.”  Jeanne Meyer, a Martha Stewart Living spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail that the company “typically doesn’t comment on legal
matters.”  The case is Macy’s Inc. v.  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia (MSO) 
Inc., 650197/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Foreclosure Deal Won’t Be Reached This Week, Miller Says  Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller said a deal with the five
biggest U.S. mortgage servicers to resolve a probe of
foreclosure practices won’t be reached this week.  State and federal officials have been negotiating a
settlement with the five largest mortgage servicers --  Bank of
America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial Inc (ALLY) . Representatives of Democratic
attorney general offices met yesterday at a Chicago hotel to
discuss a proposed accord.  The deal with the banks would be worth about $25 billion,
two people familiar with the matter said last week. That would
drop to about $19 billion if California Attorney General Kamala
Harris decides not to sign on, the people said.  “We have not yet reached an agreement with the nation’s
five largest servicers, and we won’t reach a settlement any time
this week,” Miller, who has been leading the negotiations for
the states, said in a statement.  Banks would fund loan principal writedowns for homeowners
and provide refinancing, the people said. The proposal also sets
requirements for how to conduct home foreclosures. Delaware
Attorney General Beau Biden, a Democrat, won’t sign on to the
proposed foreclosure settlement as currently drafted, Deputy
Attorney General Ian McConnel said in a phone interview
yesterday.  Yesterday’s meeting in Chicago is an opportunity for
officials at Democratic attorney general offices to ask
questions before they are asked to decide whether to sign on.
Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan, who is
also attending, declined to comment during a break.  The attorneys general from all 50 states announced in 2010
they were investigating bank foreclosure practices after
disclosures that the companies were using faulty documents in
seizing homes.  Mets Owners to Ask Judge to Decide Madoff Trustee Suit  The owners of the New York Mets baseball team will ask a
Manhattan judge to decide remaining claims of $386 million in a
suit from Irving Picard, the trustee for Bernard Madoff’s
defunct firm.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff threw out most of Picard’s
$1 billion claims against the team owners and this month refused
to let the trustee appeal his ruling before a March jury trial.
The Mets owners, Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, will ask Rakoff next
month for judgment on all remaining counts of Picard’s
complaint, they said in a Jan. 20 court filing. Picard said
separately he wants a ruling before trial on one remaining count
of his lawsuit.  New York lawyer Picard originally demanded $300 million in
profit and $700 million in principal from Wilpon, Katz and a
group of family members and related entities, saying they turned
a blind eye to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. The partners denied the
allegation. In September, Rakoff dismissed all or part of nine
out of 11 claims in Picard’s suit against Wilpon and Katz.  Denying Picard’s request to let him appeal this month,
Rakoff, a fan of the New York Yankees, cited a quotation usually
attributed to that team’s Hall of Fame catcher, Yogi Berra.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Megaupload Founder Bail Delayed After Guns, Pink Cadillac Seized  Megaupload.com’s founder was ordered by a New Zealand judge
to remain in jail, three days after the U.S. shut down the file-
sharing website and police arrested him in his mansion, seizing
luxury cars, guns and art.  Kim Dotcom, the website’s German founder who legally
changed his name from Schmitz, was remanded to Jan. 25, when the
judge is scheduled to rule on his bail request, a court official
said by telephone. Dotcom and three other men appeared in court
in Albany, a suburb of Auckland, on U.S. charges.  Police used helicopters in the raid on the so-called Dotcom
Mansion on Jan. 20, the eve of Dotcom’s 38th birthday, after the
U.S. government charged seven men in an alleged $175 million
copyright infringement conspiracy. Megaupload was advertised as
having more than 1 billion visitors, more than 150 million
users, 50 million daily visitors, and accounted for 4 percent of
Internet traffic, prosecutors said.  When police arrived at Dotcom’s leased Auckland home, he
entered his house and activated electronic locks, New Zealand
police said in the statement. They neutralized locks and cut
their way into a safe room, where Dotcom was found with what
looked like a sawed-off shotgun, according to the statement.  He denied any wrong doing at yesterday’s hearing, according
to  stuff.co.nz  website.  Prosecutor Anne Toohey urged the judge to deny Dotcom’s
request for bail, saying he was a flight risk, stuff.co.nz
reported.  For more, click here.  Rajat Gupta Files Demand for Jury Trial in SEC Civil Case  Rajat Gupta, the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
charged with insider trading as part of the Galleon Group LLC
probe, filed a demand for a jury trial in the civil case brought
against him by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The SEC claims Gupta, 63, gave Raj Rajaratnam, the
convicted Galleon co-founder, information about  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs. The
agency also alleges that Gupta told Rajaratnam about quarterly
earnings of Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble, where Gupta was
also a director.  Gupta, who faces related criminal charges in a separate
case, has denied wrongdoing.  The SEC filed an administrative proceeding against Gupta in
Washington on March 1, claiming he passed illegal inside
information to Rajaratnam. The agency later withdrew that action
and sued Gupta in federal court in Manhattan, after Gupta
claimed the administrative proceeding improperly deprived him of
procedural protections, including the right to have a jury,
rather than a judge, determine the case.  Rajaratnam, 54, was found guilty in May of 14 criminal
counts of conspiracy and securities fraud. He is serving an 11-
year sentence in a federal medical prison in Massachusetts.  The case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-cv-01900, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  HSBC Withdraws Madoff Settlement Offer After Case Dismissed  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest lender, withdrew a
settlement offer with investors in a feeder fund that lost money
in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme after a U.S. court dismissed
the case.  The individual investors in 2009 sued Thema International
Fund Plc and 27 other defendants, including HSBC, Thema’s
custodian bank, alleging the bank should have known of Madoff’s
fraud. HSBC asked the court to dismiss the case in October,
saying it should be heard in Ireland and Luxembourg. The court
yesterday found Ireland was a “more appropriate forum,” the
London-based lender said in a statement yesterday.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in North
Carolina. HSBC amended its settlement with the investors in
November after the bank’s original offer was rejected by a U.S.
judge two months earlier. The proposal offered shareholders in
Thema as much as $62.5 million.  The court “declined to consider whether to grant approval
of the proposed settlement between HSBC and the plaintiff, as
was required for the settlement to become effective,” the bank
said yesterday.  “In light of the court’s decisions, HSBC has terminated
the settlement agreement,” the lender said. “The plaintiff
contests HSBC’s right to terminate and has appealed the court’s
decisions.”  Venezuela Rebuffed by U.S. High Court on Bandagro Bond Suit  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  refused to block an Ohio investor
group from suing Venezuela over potentially $900 million in bank
notes that the South American country says are forgeries.  The justices yesterday turned away an appeal from Hugo
Chavez’s Venezuelan government, which sought to invoke a U.S.
law that immunizes foreign sovereigns from some lawsuits in
American courts. The Supreme Court acted after the Obama
administration urged rejection of the appeal.  The suit by DRFP LLC, which does business under the name
Skye Ventures, may be the first of several claims over the
disputed bearer bonds, according to Venezuela’s appeal.  The notes were allegedly issued in 1981 by the Banco de
Desarrollo Agropecuario, then a state-owned Venezuelan bank also
known as Bandagro.  The two Skye Ventures notes have a face value of $50
million apiece. The investor group said in 2010 that, with
interest, the bonds were worth as much as $900 million.  Skye Ventures says it acquired its two notes only after the
Venezuelan attorney general issued a 2003 opinion declaring them
valid. The investor group then demanded payment in Columbus.
When Venezuela refused, Skye sued.  A federal appeals court in Cincinnati ruled in 2010 that
Venezuela isn’t shielded by the U.S. Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act. The court left open the possibility that
Venezuela could win dismissal of the case using a different line
of argument.  The case is Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela v. DRFP,
10-1144, U.S. Supreme Court, (Washington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Allen Stanford’s Prospective Jurors Probed for Bias by Judge  The R. Allen Stanford who arrived at the Houston federal
courthouse in shackles to start his $7 billion investment fraud
trial yesterday is far different from the Texas billionaire
prosecutors indicted 2 1/2 years ago.  Weeks before his June 2009 indictment, Stanford strode into
the same courthouse with a high-profile defense lawyer and
volunteered to surrender. U.S. marshals declined at the time to
arrest the Stanford Group Co. founder, then estimated by Forbes
to be worth $2.2 billion.  “I’m not a damn swindler,” Stanford said weeks before he
was charged. He vowed to clear his name, take back assets seized
by securities regulators, and repay more than 20,000 investors
he’s accused of defrauding through allegedly bogus certificates
of deposit at Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Now 61 and visibly thinner, Stanford has endured a string
of setbacks since he was indicted and jailed because prosecutors
said he might try to flee. In September 2009, he suffered broken
facial bones in a beating by another inmate and became addicted
to anti-anxiety medications prescribed by prison doctors after
the attack. After eight months in a prison rehabilitation unit,
Stanford claims he still can’t remember much of his life or
details of his once far-flung business empire, according to his
lawyers.  The judge interviewed 80 prospective jurors yesterday,
questioning them to determine possible bias for or against the
former financier. About a fourth of them said they had some
familiarity with Stanford’s story. By day’s end, more than half
of the panelists had been sent home, while Hittner detained the
rest for further questioning in his chambers.  The judge told them to return to court today.  Prosecutors accuse Stanford of skimming more than $1
billion in investor deposits to fund a lavish lifestyle --
including yachts, a fleet of jets, cricket teams and a private
Caribbean island -- and to support multiple women, several of
whom crowded into court almost three years ago with their
children to support the financier. The Stanford entourage has
since dwindled to occasional courtroom appearances by his mother
and a lone female admirer, who says she also visits him
regularly in prison.  Houston attorneys Ali Fazel and Robert Scardino, Stanford’s
lead defense counsel, said they’ll use thousands of bank and
business records to show jurors the financier never intended to
defraud anyone. They claim no investor lost money until the
government stepped in and seized the businesses, destroying
their value. Stanford International Bank stumbled in the same
global financial meltdown that tripped up banks worldwide in
late 2008, they said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Polly Peck Ex-CEO Nadir Accused at Trial of $233 Million Theft  Asil Nadir, the former Polly Peck International Plc chief
executive who fled Britain in 1993 following claims of fraud,
was accused at a trial in London of stealing 150 million pounds
($233.4 million) from the company.  The amount, revealed by prosecutors on the first day of a
four-month trial in London, is more than four times the figure
cited by the  Serious Fraud Office  since the case began nearly
two decades ago. Nadir, 70, and associates withdrew the money
from the now-defunct electronics and food-packaging firm’s U.K.
bank accounts and funneled it through companies in Switzerland
and the Bahamas between 1987 and 1990, prosecutors said.  Nadir “wielded very considerable power” over the
company’s operations and management, prosecutor Philip Shears
said at London’s Old Bailey criminal court. “We say he abused
that power and helped himself to tens of millions of pounds of
PPI’s money.”  When London-based Polly Peck collapsed in 1990, its
administrators found more than 700 million pounds owed to
creditors was unrecoverable from units of the company, which
Nadir built up during the 1980s by expanding into areas such as
electronics, hotels and an acquisition of the  Del Monte (DLM)  fruit
brand. Nadir agreed to return to the U.K. in 2010 to face fraud
claims nearly 20 years after fleeing.  The SFO accused Nadir of 13 counts of theft totaling about
34 million pounds, using a selection of “sample” transfers.
Nadir denies the charges.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Diamondback Avoids Prosecution, Agrees to Pay $9 Million  Diamondback Capital Management LLC won’t be criminally
prosecuted and will pay more than $9 million to end an insider-
trading investigation involving  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) 
stock.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said his office
agreed not to prosecute Diamondback for the actions of two
former employees,  Todd Newman , a former portfolio manager, and
Jesse Tortora, a former analyst. In a complaint filed last week,
prosecutors said the pair and five other men were part of a
“criminal club” of fund managers and analysts who swapped
illegal tips.  Newman, who began working at Diamondback in March 2006, was
charged with conspiracy to commit securities fraud and
securities fraud in the criminal complaint filed by Bharara’s
office on Jan. 18. Tortora has pleaded guilty and is cooperating
with the U.S., Bharara said. Newman, who hasn’t entered a plea,
was released on $3 million bond.  “The misconduct under investigation did not, and does not,
extend beyond the statement of facts and was not known by the
firm’s co-founders,” assistant U.S. attorneys Antonia Apps and
David Leibowitz said in court papers.  A lawyer hired by Diamondback concluded after an
investigation that certain trades by Newman and Tortora in Dell
and Nvidia resulted from material nonpublic information they
received from an unidentified expert-networking firm,
prosecutors said. The external probe found “no evidence that
either the conduct or the improper information” was known by
the firm’s co-founders, according to prosecutors.  Diamondback yesterday separately agreed to resolve a Jan.
18 Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit over trades made
in 2008 and 2009 by the former employees, the SEC said in a
statement.  The SEC filed claims against Diamondback, Newman and
Tortora last week as part of a wider insider-trading case that
involved five different hedge funds and investment firms. The
agency claimed Newman learned inside information about Dell’s
earnings in 2008 from Tortora.  The case is SEC v. Adondakis, 12-cv-409, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  California Slaughterhouse Law Struck Down by Top U.S. Court  The U.S. Supreme Court overturned a California law
requiring slaughterhouses to immediately euthanize animals that
are too sick to stand up, saying the measure violated a federal
meat-safety law.  The unanimous ruling yesterday is a victory for the
National Meat Association, an industry trade group that
challenged the California law.  Because federal law similarly bans the slaughter of downed
cattle for food, the California law would have had its greatest
impact on the handling of pigs. Under federal law, downed hogs
can be slaughtered after they undergo a veterinary check to
ensure they aren’t diseased. The hogs also must become
ambulatory before they can be slaughtered.  The state law was enacted in 2008 after the Humane Society
of the United States released a video of so-called downer cattle
being kicked, electrocuted, dragged with chains and rammed with
a forklift at a Westland/Hallmark Meat Co. slaughterhouse.  The California law banned slaughterhouses from buying or
selling downer animals and from butchering them for human
consumption. The measure also required humane handling of the
animals.  The Obama administration argued alongside the meat-industry
trade group in urging the court to declare the state law “pre-
empted” by the federal statute.  The case is National Meat Association v. Harris, 10-224,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court News  Christie Nominees to Supreme Court Include First Asian-American  New Jersey Governor Chris Christie said he is nominating
two people to the state Supreme Court, including the first
openly gay justice and the first Asian American.  Bruce Harris, a registered Republican and mayor of Chatham,
would be the first openly gay justice and the third black
justice, Christie, a first-term Republican, said yesterday at a
press conference in Trenton. Phil Kwon, who is undeclared, would
be the first Asian-American justice, Christie said.  The nominations need approval from the Senate, which is
controlled by Democrats. Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a
West Deptford Democrat, held up Christie’s May 2010 Supreme
Court nomination of Anne Patterson for a year, saying the
governor’s unprecedented move to deny tenure to a sitting
Supreme Court Justice, John Wallace, had politicized the court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 