-- Common Chemicals in Products May Harm Kids’ Immune Systems
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-01-24T22:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/common-chemicals-in-products-may-harm-children-s-immune-system.html
Chemicals used in consumer products,
including rain gear, stain-resistant carpeting, microwave
popcorn bags and fast-food packaging, appear to limit children’s
disease-fighting immune responses, a study found.  The research by Danish investigators, is one of the first
to examine the effects of perfluorinated compounds, or  PFCs , on
the immune system. It showed that children with the highest
levels in their blood had the weakest responses to childhood
vaccines. Higher chemical exposure also led to less infection-
fighting antibodies to keep disease at bay, the study reported.  Decreased antibody levels may signal a weakened immune
system that could have long-lasting implications, said Philippe
Grandjean, the lead author and chairman of environmental
medicine at the  University of Southern Denmark  in Odense. The
reduced vaccine response suggests a rising  public health  threat,
he said.  “If that’s true, it’s quite worrying,” said  Grandjean ,
who also serves as an adjunct professor of environmental health
at  Harvard School of Public Health  in  Boston . “It could affect
the response of the immune system to infectious diseases and how
we respond to microorganisms in general.”  Environmental experts and regulators worldwide have grown
increasingly  concerned  that perfluorinated compounds, which are
both water and grease resistant, are toxic, long-lasting and can
accumulate over time. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
started  restricting  their use a decade ago.  Research on the human-health consequences is in the early
stages, and more work is needed, the agency says.  DuPont Products  DuPont Co. (DD) , the largest U.S. chemicals company by market
value, uses one common type of PFC as a processing aid, the
company said in a statement. Trace levels of the compound, known
as perfluorooctanoic acid, can be found as unintentional
byproducts in some consumer products made with DuPont materials,
the company said.  The Wilmington, Delaware-based company plans to stop
making, buying and using the compound dubbed PFOA by 2015, and
has already introduced some new products including nonstick
cookware without it. Previous studies have shown existing
products made with PFOAs are safe for their intended uses, the
company said.  Faroe Islands Children  The researchers tracked 587 children born in the  Faroe
Islands , a fishing community located northwest of  Scotland . The
high consumption of seafood on the 18-island  archipelago  is
linked to exposure to PFCs, which were at similar or lower
levels seen in American children, the researchers said.  Children who had levels of major PFCs that were twice as
high in their blood at age 7 as their peers also had half the
antibody concentrations for tetanus and diphtheria compared with
the other children, the study found.  Those with the most exposure to PFCs by age 5 were
significantly more likely to have insufficient protective
antibody levels two years later, the researchers said.  Prenatal exposure to PFCs reduced the children’s ability to
produce antibodies years later, the study found. Higher levels
of PFCs in the mother’s blood were linked to fewer antibodies
produced by the children at age 5. The pollutants can be
transferred through placenta and breast milk, Grandjean said.  Only a handful of medical conditions, radiation treatment
and cancer drugs have a similar effect on reducing the immune
system’s response to immunizations, he said.  Alternatives Needed  The U.S. National Institute of Environmental Health
Sciences, the EPA, the Danish Council for Strategic Research and
the Danish Environmental Protection Agency funded the study. It
will appear in the Jan. 25 edition of  Journal of the American
Medical Association .  Manufacturers should look for alternatives to PFCs, and
phase out their use once safer products are developed, Grandjean
said by telephone. Until then, consumers should look for
products that are certified and marketed as PFC-free, he said.  “It’s possible and it’s a matter of consumer choice,” he
said, pointing out the recent wave of products that are free of
bisphenol-A, a chemical used to make some plastic containers,
that has been linked to a range of medical problems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  