-- Companies May Face EU Fines for Lost Data Under Privacy Rules
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-24T17:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/companies-may-face-eu-fines-for-lost-data-under-privacy-rules.html
Companies that operate in the
European Union may face fines for losing or mishandling personal
data under an overhaul of the region’s data protection rules to
be published tomorrow.  The proposal would update the EU’s 17-year-old data
protection policies and address online-advertising and social
networking sites. National data protection regulators across the
region should have the power to sanction companies if they
disregard requirements on personal information, according to a
draft copy of the proposal obtained by Bloomberg News.  The document builds on comments by EU Justice Commissioner
Viviane Reding earlier this week that companies should tell
regulators about a data breach within 24 hours. People whose
data has been accessed should be notified “as soon as
reasonably feasible,” according to the document.  Sony Corp. (6758)  was criticized last year by U.S. lawmakers for
taking six days to warn customers about a cyber attack that
exposed more than 100 million customer accounts, the second-
largest online data breach in U.S. history. Industry groups with
members including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have warned
against overly strict data-privacy rules that may stifle
innovation.  The EU’s proposal will be “a trademark people recognize
and trust worldwide,” Reding said on Jan. 22. “Reliable,
consistently applied rules make data processing safer, cheaper
and inspire users’ confidence.”  Matthew Newman , a spokesman for Reding, said the proposal
“will have sanctions that can be applied” by data protection
agencies. He declined to give details of the maximum fines. The
New York Times reported on the document earlier today.  ‘Specific and Explicit’  Websites must obtain “specific and explicit” consent from
 Internet users  to store information and to delete data that they
hold without a “legally justified interest,” Reding said.  Google, Facebook Inc.,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  are among Web companies
that collect user information and get paid by clients who can
use the data to target advertisements for products or services.
Having to get approval for individual data retention and an
obligation to purge files may reduce those companies’ revenue.  The draft rules aim to establish common legislation for the
27-member bloc, as well as national points of contact that can
make decisions that will be valid for the region. Uniform
legislation will save businesses 2.3 billion euros a year by,
for example, reducing paperwork, Reding said.  Before the proposal can be implemented, it will need the
backing of European governments and the European Parliament,
which can both demand changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 