-- U.S. Consumer Bureau Mulling Rule Exemptions for Smaller Banks
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/consumer-bureau-mulling-rule-exemptions-for-smaller-banks.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau may weigh size or market share in exempting
community banks from its rules to shield them from the greater
regulatory burdens facing their larger rivals.  Richard Cordray , the former  Ohio  treasurer and attorney
general appointed to head the consumer bureau Jan. 4, touted the
idea of exclusions for smaller lenders in a conference call
organized by the  Independent Community Bankers of America .  “The bureau will be considering two-tiered regulatory
requirements and exemption thresholds as it writes regulations
so that community banks will be able to conduct their business
without overly burdensome regulatory requirements,” the
Washington-based trade group said in its internal newsletter,
citing Cordray’s comments during the Jan. 12 call.  Jen Howard, a spokeswoman for the bureau, declined to
comment and didn’t dispute the newsletter account.  Congress created the bureau as part of the Dodd-Frank Act
after lawmakers said existing regulators failed to protect
consumers before the credit market collapse that led to record
home foreclosures and bailouts for lenders including  Bank of
America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   In promising to favor smaller firms, Cordray is following
in the footsteps of  Elizabeth Warren , who wooed community banks
while setting up the agency as an adviser to President  Barack Obama . Soon after starting work in September 2010, Warren touted
the bureau as an ally that could help smaller banks in
competition with firms whose trading practices and compensation
incentives were faulted for increasing risk before the crisis.  Going Further  By raising the prospect of exemptions, Cordray is going
further than Warren, who is credited by Obama with conceiving
the consumer bureau. Dodd-Frank, which authorizes the agency to
give exemptions based on criteria such as asset size or
transaction volume, doesn’t require them.  “He kept emphasizing the point about two-tiered
regulation,” Chris Williston, the head of the Independent
Bankers Association of Texas said in an interview after the
conference call. “He hit the point over and over.”  Community banks were politically powerful enough to obtain
an exemption from the consumer bureau’s supervision, which will
aim at banks with more than $10 billion in assets. The smaller
banks’ primary regulators -- the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
and the  Federal Reserve  -- will still examine them for
compliance with the regulations the bureau writes, according to
Alex Sanchez, president of the Florida Bankers Association.  “At the end of the day, the community banks have to comply
with CFPB rules,” Sanchez said in an interview. “So if there’s
an exemption for community banks, that really matters.”  ‘Time-Honored’  Though many community banks got bailout funds alongside the
Wall Street giants, bureau officials have extolled the smaller
lenders for being closer to customers and local affairs.  On the call this month, Cordray contrasted community banks
with the bigger firms, calling their work a “traditional, time-
honored model,” said Paul Fitzgerald, president and chief
executive officer of Hamilton, New Jersey-based First Bank.  Most community banks focus on retail finance and lending to
local and regional businesses, rather than the capital markets
speculation that caused losses at bigger firms. Cordray said on
the call that community banks weren’t responsible for the
financial crisis, according to Fitzgerald.  The Fed has expressed similar views regarding the need to
support smaller banks, an idea endorsed by Dodd-Frank provisions
that lower deposit insurance fees for smaller banks and impose
capital surcharges for larger ones.  Bernanke  Fed chairman  Ben Bernanke , in a speech to the Independent
Community Bankers of America last March, said “focusing reform
on our largest, most complex financial firms makes sense.”  ICBA President Camden Fine said carve-outs from regulations
would mark an additional political victory for community banks
over Wall Street giants.  “It’s something we have been advocating for years and
years, and we got a little bit of what we wanted in Dodd-
Frank,” Fine said in an interview.  In the 40-minute conference call with several hundred
participants, Cordray touted his experiences in working with
community banks as Ohio’s treasurer and attorney general,
according to Robert Fisher, president and chief executive of
Tioga State Bank of Spencer,  New York .  In the context of new regulations and the “two-tiered
approach”, Cordray also said that “one size does not fit
all,” according to Fisher. “We community banks very much like
to hear the words ‘two-tiered,’” Fitzgerald said.  Compliance Cost  Cordray also acknowledged a point made by community bankers
that their size restricts their ability to cope with the cost of
complying with new regulations.  “We cannot cover the cost of regulation the way a mega-
bank can by spreading the costs over a large number of
customers,” Fisher said.  The possibility that smaller banks will escape some of the
bureau’s regulations is likely to trigger pushback from bigger
companies, said  Richard Hunt , president of the Consumer Bankers
Association, which represents retail units of lenders including
JPMorgan, Bank of America, Citigroup and  Wells Fargo & Co .  “We agree with the many statements made by the CFPB that
there should be a level playing field in the banking industry,”
Hunt said in an e-mail.  Cordray, in a Jan. 19 interview, said the question of
whether the metaphor applies to competition between large and
small banks is “a more complicated issue than it appears.”  “Everybody needs to play by the rules; the rules may not
be the same for every player,” he said. “We will calibrate
this as we go.”  During the conference call, Cordray gave community bankers
the impression that he’s seeking the same political alliance
that Warren offered during her time shaping the bureau, said
Williston of Texas bankers’ association. If the bureau can give
the smaller banks a competitive edge, they will support its
work, he said.  “He is on the road to that goal,” Williston said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 