-- Oil Fluctuates in New York as Iran Responds to Europe Crude Import Embargo
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-01-24T13:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/crude-oil-trades-near-100-on-concern-iran-may-respond-to-european-embargo.html
Oil swung between gains and losses
in  New York  as Iran criticized a European embargo on its crude
exports without repeating threats to disrupt shipping in the
Persian Gulf.  Futures rose as much as 0.6 percent before dropping 0.7
percent. While a statement from Iran’s Foreign Affairs Ministry
said yesterday’s European Union decision to ban supplies from
the nation will “bear bitter fruits,” it stopped short of
warning it would close the Strait of Hormuz. An Energy
Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude stockpiles rose
last week. The American Petroleum is due to publish its weekly
supply report today.  “The Iranian crisis is masking underlying weakness in
market fundamentals,” said Andy Sommer, a senior trader at EGL
AG in Dietikon,  Switzerland , who says the price of  Brent crude 
should be $5 a barrel lower. “We have increasing supply from
places like  Libya , while U.S. oil demand numbers look pretty
weak, and Europe is the weakest link.”  Crude for March delivery rose as much as 60 cents to
$100.18 a barrel and was down 44 cents at $99.14 at 1:53 p.m.
London time. It settled at 99.58 yesterday, the highest since
Jan. 19. Brent oil for March settlement was at $110.16 a barrel,
down 42 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $11.02 today, compared with a record $27.88
on Oct. 14.  Trade Ban  The EU will freeze the assets in  Europe  of the Iranian
central bank as well as eight other entities and ban the trade
in gold, precious metals, diamonds and petrochemical products
from Iran, the 27-nation bloc said in a statement yesterday.
Europe is the second-biggest buyer of Iran’s oil after  China .  Prices were little changed today, following assurances by
 Saudi Arabia (OPCRSAUD)  to keep customers adequately supplied, and signs of
rising supplies in the U.S.  Iranian officials have previously said they may obstruct
the Strait of Hormuz. The passageway is a transit route for
about 17 million barrels of oil a day, a fifth of worldwide
consumption, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  Saudi Arabia , Iran,  Iraq , the United Arab Emirates, Qatar
and Kuwait ship crude, oil products and liquefied natural gas
through the channel.  Iran  will close the passageway if sanctions
impede the sale of its oil, state-run Fars news agency said
yesterday, citing Mohammad Kowsari, deputy head of the
parliament’s National Security and Foreign Policy commission.  ‘Hasty Decision’  The ban on imports was a “hasty decision” that will drive
up prices and threaten economic growth in Western countries, the
Iranian oil ministry said in a statement published on the
website of the state-run Fars news agency yesterday.  “The market is taking its breath to see what will happen
next with Iran,” said David Lennox, an analyst at Fat Prophets
in Sydney. “You would have thought with the embargo coming out
of the  euro zone  that the oil price would have been somewhere
around $115 but it hasn’t happened.”  U.S. oil inventories probably grew last week on
expectations of a rebound in Gulf Coast imports, a Bloomberg
News survey showed. Supplies rose by 1.5 million barrels, or 0.5
percent, to 332.7 million last week, according to the  median
estimate  of 10 analysts polled before a weekly Energy Department
report on Jan. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  