-- Daiichi Chuo Targets U.S. Coal Export Boom as It Adds Bulk Ships
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-01-25T04:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/daiichi-chuo-targets-u-s-coal-export-boom-as-it-adds-bulk-ships.html
Daiichi Chuo Kisen Kaisha (9132) , a Tokyo-
based shipping line, said it’s targeting a boom in coal exports
from the U.S. as shale gas production frees up the fuel for
sales overseas. The shares were poised for their biggest gain
since at least 1974.  “Exports of coal from the U.S. could easily double in the
next three or four years,” Saburo Koide, president of the
company, said in an interview in  Tokyo  yesterday. “We’ve
already had several inquiries on shipping coal from there,” he
said, declining to name potential customers.  The shipping line plans to add an office in  Brazil  as early
as next month to handle imports to  South America , expanding its
overseas branch network that includes China and  India , Koide
said. The U.S. can boost coal exports as much as 110 million
tons by this year as low natural gas prices erode the fuel’s
domestic demand, the International Energy Agency said last
month.  “We’re going to see more bulk ships traveling to the
U.S.,” Koide said. “China and India are already strong markets
for coal. Brazil is also expanding.”  Daiichi shares climbed 25 percent, headed for the biggest
gain since at least September 1974, to 141 yen as of 1:37 p.m.
in Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.1 percent.  Shale Rock  The development of shale gas reserves in the U.S. is
reducing the country’s reliance on coal for power stations,
opening the way for the fuel to be exported. The U.S Energy
Department forecast coal’s market share for power generation
will decline to 43.5 percent this year from 44.9 percent in
2011, according to Simmons & Co. International.  Marcellus shale rock formation, stretching across the U.S.
Northeast, has enough reserves to meet the nation’s gas demand
for about six years, according to estimates from the Energy
Department. Global coal demand may expand 2.8 percent a year to
2016 amid demand from emerging economies, the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency  said last month.  “Demand for coal from  developing countries  is increasing
as their populations and economies expand,” Koide said. Daiichi
already has won some contracts to transport coal from the U.S.,
he said.  Daiichi plans to expand its fleet to  280 ships  by the end
of March 2016, from 195 vessels in March, according to the
company’s mid-term forecast. The shipping line plans to add 111
vessels including capesizes and panamaxes in this period.  In comparison,  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. (9104) , operator of the
world’s largest merchant fleet, had  917 ships  at the end of
March, according to its annual report. The shipping line is the
largest shareholder of Daiichi with a 26 percent stake,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Daiichi will make a loss of 3.8 billion yen ($49 million)
on sales of 148 billion yen in the year ending March 31, the
company said in October. It’s scheduled to announce earnings for
the third quarter on Jan. 31. Koide declined to comment on the
company’s earnings forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  