-- Danthine Says Swiss Central Bank Determined to Enforce Franc Cap
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-01-24T16:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/danthine-says-swiss-central-bank-determined-to-enforce-franc-cap.html
Swiss central bank  governing board
member Jean-Pierre Danthine said the franc should weaken over
time and policy makers are determined to enforce their maximum
level on the currency.  The  Swiss National Bank  will “continue to enforce the
minimum rate with the utmost determination and remains prepared
to buy foreign currency in unlimited quantities,” Danthine said
at an event in Zurich today. “The Swiss franc is still highly
valued, but it should depreciate further in the future.”  Danthine also said the resignation of Philipp Hildebrand as
SNB president this month doesn’t undermine the commitment of the
central bank to maintain its minimum exchange rate. Policy
makers set a cap of 1.20 per euro in September to aid the
economic recovery and reduce the threat of deflation.  “The SNB’s institutional strength is the result of
teamwork,” Danthine said. “The current course of Swiss
monetary policy, particularly the decision to introduce a
minimum  exchange rate , is the result of a deep-rooted consensus
of this kind.”  The franc was little changed at 1.2071 against the euro as
of 5 p.m. in Zurich. It has gained 0.7 percent this year. In the
12 months before the introduction of the cap, the franc
strengthened as much as 37 percent against the euro, the
currency of the country’s main trading partners.  Danthine also said the “huge cost” of the financial
crisis has decreased the weight of objections to “leaning
against the wind” policies. Still, he said there is a
“powerful incentive” to examine instruments such as macro-
prudential tools to address vulnerabilities in the financial
system.  “Their strength is that they target the problem directly
at the root,” he said. “One important lesson to emerge from
the analysis of the recent crisis is that an interest rate
policy cannot be the sole, or even the main instrument, used to
promote financial stability. It is imperative that central banks
be endowed with alternative ‘macro-prudential’ instruments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  