-- Davos Hit by Heaviest Snow in 66 Years as Orange Gnomes Clear Up
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-01-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/davos-hit-by-worst-snow-in-66-years-as-gnomes-in-orange-clear-up.html
Delegates arriving at the Swiss
resort of Davos this week had to surmount one final obstacle on
their journeys to the World Economic Forum: five feet of snow.  Heavy snowfall during the past two months pushed average
levels at the Alpine town to 1.55 meters, the second-highest for
Jan. 24 since data were first compiled 66 years ago, according
to the  Institute for Snow and Avalanche Research  in Davos. Risks
from sliding snow are mounting as total accumulation for the
winter rose to a record and drifts reached almost twice as high
as last year, the Institute said.  “We’ve been plowing snow almost non-stop for the past two
months,” said Norbert Gruber, who oversees 40 vehicles and a
staff of street cleaners dubbed “gnomes in orange” by the local
newspaper, referring to their colored overalls. “The snow is
giving us sleepless nights because we have to start clearing at
2 a.m. in order to avoid traffic.”  Gruber and his team are trying to ensure snow drifts and
blizzards don’t prove too great a hindrance to the 2,600
delegates, including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates , who are attending the
42nd annual meeting of the World Economic Forum. Street cleaners
are dumping tons of snow on the frozen Lake Davos to clear roads
for limousines transporting participants from hotels to the
conference center.  ‘Just Amazing’  “It’s beautiful here. Just amazing,” said Keith Trent,
president of commercial businesses at Duke Energy Corp. in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , where the  average annual snowfall  is
5.5 inches.  As the temperature dropped to minus 5 degrees Celsius (23
degrees Fahrenheit) yesterday, Vijay Poonoosamy, vice president
for international and public affairs at  Etihad Airways  in  Abu
Dhabi , said he wasn’t fazed.  “It’s chilly in Abu Dhabi right now at 16 degrees and I was
freezing,” said Poonoosamy. At the  World Economic Forum , which
Poonoosamy is attending for the fourth time, “I’m not even
cold,” he said.  On the 2,663-meter high Weissfluhjoch mountain overlooking
Davos, snow piled up as high as 2.64 meters yesterday, a record
for Jan. 24 since data were first compiled in 1936.  “We’re happy when it snows,” said Claudio Rupp, head of
the Top Secret Skiing School, which counts on some forum
attendees taking a break from the scheduled events to hit the
slopes. “To us, it’s no problem,” he said, declining to reveal
names of past participants who had squeezed in ski lessons
during their time at Davos.  Told that the snowfall was the worst in decades, Nestle SA
Chairman Peter Brabeck-Letmathe bristled. “Worst? It’s the
best!” the 67-year-old executive said. “This is what winter
looks like.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  