-- Delta, Qantas, Air Canada Divert Flights Due to Solar Storm
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-01-25T03:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/delta-reroutes-some-flights-on-solar-flare.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  rerouted as
many as eight transpolar flights between the U.S. and Asia as
the most-powerful solar radiation storm since 2003 hit Earth.  Jets were sent farther south, lengthening trips by about 15
minutes, to avoid potential radio disruptions,  Anthony Black , a
Delta spokesman, said yesterday. Air Canada and  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN)  also shifted the path of some flights, while American
Airlines,  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , and  Air New Zealand
Ltd. (AIR)  said no planes had been rerouted.  Airlines are at risk for a loss of communications on Arctic
routes because they use high-frequency radios on flights in the
region instead of satellite-based systems, said Doug Biesecker,
a solar physicist at the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration ’s  Space Weather Prediction Center . Solar storms
can interfere with the radio signals, he said.  “This one is unusual because it’s so strong,” Biesecker
said in an interview from Boulder, Colorado. He said it was the
11th-most-powerful storm measured since 1975.  About 8,000 flights a year operate on polar routes,
typically between Asia and  North America , because they’re the
shortest path for many destinations on the two continents,
Biesecker said. He said the storm may last until late today New
York time.  The blast of energy from the storm can cause fluctuations
in Earth’s magnetic field, temporarily affecting navigation,
power, satellite and communications systems, according to the
space weather center. The storm moved toward Earth at 4 million
miles (6.44 million kilometers) per hour, the center said.  Storm Tracking  Delta may adjust the routes of as many as eight flights a
day over the next few days depending on the storm, Black said.
Flights between the Atlanta-based airline’s Detroit hub and  Hong
Kong , Beijing, Seoul and Shanghai may be among those affected,
he said.  “We want to ensure we maintain contact and communication
with the aircraft by making these adjustments,” Black said.  Qantas will divert its Sydney-Buenos Aires flight today,
which typically flies over the Antarctic, and add an extra five
tons of fuel to compensate for the longer route.  “We’re not flying as far south as we normally would,”
Sophia Connelly, a spokeswoman for Sydney-based Qantas, said by
telephone.  AMR Corp (AAMRQ) .’s American was “closely monitoring” the
situation, said Tim Smith, a spokesman. In addition to new
routes, airlines could change altitudes or use different
navigation or communication systems, he said. He said the Fort
Worth, Texas-based airline wasn’t doing any of those late
yesterday.  Isabelle Arthur, a spokeswoman for Dorval, Quebec-based  Air
Canada (AC/A) , said she couldn’t immediately provide details about the
extent of the rerouting forced by the storm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  