-- Democratic Payroll Negotiators to Push for Other Extensions
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-01-24T00:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/democratic-payroll-negotiators-to-push-for-other-extensions.html
Democratic U.S. senators who are
members of a panel negotiating a  payroll tax  cut extension for
the rest of 2012 say they will push to attach extensions of
other expiring and expired tax breaks to the measure.  The House and Senate conferees will hold their first
meeting tomorrow. Unless Congress acts, the 2-percentage-point
payroll tax break for employees will lapse on Feb. 29. Without
action, emergency unemployment benefits also would expire, and
physicians who are reimbursed through Medicare would receive
lower payments from the government.  An impasse in December over how to pay for continuing the
payroll tax cut led lawmakers to pass a short-term extension
before the tax break expired on Dec. 31, and the addition of
elements to the package could complicate discussions. Some of
the other tax breaks being discussed expired at the end of 2011
while others won’t expire until the end of this year.  Maryland Senator  Ben Cardin , a Democratic negotiator, said
there was “a great deal of interest to make sure that,
particularly the energy provisions, are included” with the
payroll tax cut. Though it is unclear which tax breaks Democrats
will push to extend, the list in the past included tax
incentives for renewable energy that expire at the end of 2012.  “We need to take care of giving predictability to
alternative energy,” Cardin said in an interview.  ‘Precedent’  Cardin said while there was “a lot of precedent for not
offsetting extension of existing tax policies,” such as the
renewable energy incentives, he would be willing to consider
offsetting the extension if Republicans insisted.  Senator  Bob Casey , a Pennsylvania Democrat and the chief
sponsor of the payroll extension proposal in the Senate in
December, said in an interview that he too would press to
include the other extensions in the package, although his
primary focus was on continuing the payroll tax cut through the
end of 2012.  Scott Mulhauser, a spokesman for Senate Finance Chairman
 Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, said in an e-mail that
Democratic negotiators, including Baucus, would seek to include
some of the other tax extensions in the payroll package.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, on
Dec. 13 endorsed the idea of attaching the package of tax
extensions -- including a $250 a year break for teachers and a
tuition tax credit -- to the payroll measure.  $35 Billion Package  The $35 billion package also includes incentives such as a
research and development tax credit and a benefit for banks’
overseas operations that expired on Dec. 31. Other items on past
lists have been the ability to deduct sales taxes in states with
no income tax, and accelerated depreciation for some restaurants
and motorsports tracks.  Companies including General Electric Co., Whirlpool Corp.,
Microsoft Corp. and Xerox Corp. have lobbied for the extension
of some of the tax breaks in the payroll package.  One Republican negotiator questioned whether extensions of
the other tax breaks would be better addressed apart from
payroll tax cut negotiations. Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl  said in an
interview that he “wouldn’t want to add something else to the
mix” until lawmakers had resolved the payroll tax, unemployment
and physician payment issues.  “I’m not sure this is the place to do it,” Kyl said.
“Let’s get done what we know we have to get done first and then
see if there’s anything that could be added.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  