-- Sieminski to Leave Deutsche Bank to Head U.S. Energy Agency
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-01-24T16:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/deutsche-bank-s-sieminski-to-head-u-s-energy-information-unit.html
Adam E. Sieminski, the chief energy
economist at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and an oil market analyst for
almost 40 years, was nominated by President  Barack Obama  to head
the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Sieminski will join the EIA after 14 years at Deutsche
Bank, according to a White House statement late yesterday. He
will replace Howard Gruenspecht, currently acting administrator
at the agency, an arm of the U.S. Energy Department that
supplies data on consumption and production in the world’s
biggest oil user. Sieminski didn't return a call seeking comment.  Before 2005, Sieminski was director and energy strategist
for Deutsche Bank’s global oil and gas equity team. He worked as
senior oil analyst for National Westminster Bank Plc from 1995
to 1998, and prior to that he was an analyst at Washington
Analysis Corp. from 1973.  “His long experience in oil markets and his networks
within the public and private sector will be a strong plus for
the EIA,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-market
strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  London , who first met Sieminski
when Tchilinguirian was working at the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency  from 2000 to 2006.  Nomination Process  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee will
consider the nomination before it moves to the full Senate for a
vote. The House of Representatives doesn’t have to approve the
nomination.  “We don’t foresee any major problems with Mr. Sieminski,”
Megan Hermann, Republican press secretary to the Senate Energy
and Natural Resources Committee, said in an e-mail.  The EIA has been forced to reduce the energy data it tracks
and analyzes after its budget was cut by 14 percent last year to
$95.4 million. Some of the information it didn’t produce last
year included annual oil and natural gas reserve estimates and
an inventory of domestic greenhouse gas emissions, according to
an April statement.  “Their budget has been cut back and they’ve cut some of
their data services,” said Robin Mills, an analyst at Manaar
Energy Consulting in Dubai. “That means they’ll need to be more
focused in the kind of things they look at and on what they’re
working.”  Sieminski was the fourth-most accurate forecaster for
natural gas traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  among
analysts ranked by Bloomberg in the past eight quarters. He was
appointed in 2006 to the National Petroleum Council, an advisory
committee to the U.S. energy secretary. He holds a bachelor’s
degree from  Cornell University .  “He’s a great central Pennsylvania guy,”  John Felmy , the
chief economist at the  American Petroleum Institute , the largest
energy trade group in the U.S., said in a conference call with
reporters today. “Adam will do a very good job, he’s been a
solid analyst.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  