-- Dollar Near Three-Week Low Versus Euro Before Fed Releases Rate Forecasts
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-01-25T01:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/dollar-near-three-week-low-versus-euro-before-fed-releases-rate-forecasts.html
The dollar was 0.3 percent from its
lowest level in three weeks against the euro before the Federal
Open Market Committee releases forecasts today for benchmark
U.S. interest rates for the first time.  Demand for the U.S. currency was trimmed before a report
projected to show pending home sales fell in December. Europe’s
common currency rose to this year’s high against the yen ahead
of a report predicted to show German  business confidence  gained
in January. The yen slid toward an almost four-week low against
the greenback after Japan posted a 2011 trade deficit of 2.49
trillion yen ($32 billion), its first shortfall in 31 years.  “The FOMC meeting could be negative for the  U.S. dollar 
against other currencies, but positive against the yen,” said
 Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at Westpac Banking Corp.,
 Australia ’s second-largest lender. “If they explicitly say
they’re going to leave the Fed funds rate at a record low for a
very long time, even though the market already knows that and
expects it, it may be positive for risk markets.”  The dollar traded at $1.3027 per euro as of 9:51 a.m. in
 Tokyo  from $1.3036 in New York yesterday when it reached
$1.3063, the least since Jan. 4. The greenback rose 0.2 percent
to 77.80 yen after yesterday reaching 77.85, the most since Dec.
29. The 17-nation euro rose 0.1 percent to 101.37 yen after
earlier reaching 101.52, the strongest since Dec. 28.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Reserve  said last week it will offer two charts
along with the forecasts for the benchmark rate. The first will
use shaded bars to show in which year participants in the FOMC
project that the central bank will first raise rates. The second
chart will show projections from each participant for the
appropriate federal funds rate target at the end of the next
three years and the longer run.  The Fed left its target for overnight loans between banks
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent last month and reiterated
that economic conditions may warrant “exceptionally low” rates
“at least” through mid-2013. It is forecast to keep the key
rate unchanged today, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Pending sales of existing homes in the U.S. slid 1 percent
in December after climbing 7.3 percent the prior month, the
National Association of Realtors is forecast to say today
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Japan  Exports  The yen fell against the euro after a report showed Japan’s
exports declined for the third consecutive month in December,
capping its first annual trade deficit since 1980. The figures
underscore the toll slower global growth and March’s earthquake
have taken on the economy.  Shipments dropped 8 percent in December from a year
earlier, the Ministry of Finance said today. The median estimate
of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 7.4 percent
decline.  “If concerns over Japan’s fiscal deficit continue to rise,
or if we see Japan’s sovereign rating being cut, yen will get
sold at least in the short term,” said Takuya Kawabata, a
Tokyo-based researcher at Gaitame.com Research Insitute Ltd., a
unit of Japan’s largest currency margin company.  Euro buying was also supported before a report that will
probably show German business confidence rose to a five-month
high this month as  Europe ’s largest economy showed signs of
avoiding a recession.  The Ifo institute’s business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 107.6 from 107.2 in
December, according to the median forecast of 42 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. That would be the highest since August
and the third-straight increase.  The dollar has depreciated 0.9 percent in the past week
against nine developed-nation counterparts, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has
fallen 2.3 percent while the euro has gained 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net 
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  