-- Dollar Strengthens as Greek Debt-Discussion Stalemate Spurs Safety Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-01-24T22:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/dollar-strengthens-as-greek-debt-discussion-stalemate-spurs-safety-demand.html
The dollar rose, reaching the
highest level this year against the yen, as European policy
makers and Greek bondholders failed to reach an agreement on a
debt-swap plan for the indebted nation, spurring safety demand.  The yen fell against all of its 16 major peers tracked by
Bloomberg after the  Bank of Japan  cut its economic growth
forecast for next year. The euro reached the highest level in
almost four weeks against the yen earlier after a report showed
European services and manufacturing industries unexpectedly
expanded in January. The pound rose against most peers after a
report showed the  budget deficit  shrank in December more than
predicted.  “The market got off to a bit of a poor footing in terms of
the formal rejecting of the Greek private sector investment
plans,” said Ray Attrill, a senior currency strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in New York. “We did have a spike up in dollar-yen
and it looked to be future positioning. The euro has held up
better than some of the other higher-beta Group of 10
currencies.” High-beta currencies tend to have the greatest
volatility.  The dollar rose 0.8 percent to 77.67 yen at 5 p.m. in  New
York  and touched 77.85, the highest level since Dec. 29. The
greenback dropped 0.2 percent to $1.3036 per euro. The common
currency rose 1 percent to 101.25 yen.  Currency Pattern  The dollar has appreciated 7.2 percent in the past six
months against nine developed-nation counterparts, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has
gained 6.4 percent and the euro has dropped 3.4 percent.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant chain,
said forecast fluctuations would reduce profit this year.
Currency changes may cut 2012 profit per share by 16 cents to 18
cents, driven by the weaker euro, Chief Financial Officer Peter Bensen said today on a conference call with analysts.  McDonald’s doesn’t provide annual profit forecasts. The
average estimate of 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for
2012 profit of $5.73 a share.  The yen’s slump gained further momentum after breaking
through the 70.40 yen per dollar level, which was a key
technical level,  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , said in an e-mail.  Central Bank Move  India’s rupee rose past 50 per dollar for the first time
since November as the central bank cut the amount of deposits
lenders need to set aside as reserves for the first time since
2009 and signaled future  interest-rate  cuts, joining Russia,
 China  and Brazil in shielding growth. The  Reserve Bank  of India
left the benchmark repurchase rate at 8.5 percent for a second
month.  The rupee was little changed at 50.0687 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It rose as much as 0.3
percent to 49.9250 earlier, the strongest level since Nov. 14.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, was little changed at 79.787.  Price swings in Group of Seven currencies climbed to 10.49
percent today after falling to 10.06 percent yesterday, the
least since March 2011, according to the  JPMorgan G7 Volatility
Index (JPMVXYG7) . A lower reading makes investments in currencies with
higher lending rates more attractive as the risk in such trades
is that market moves will erase profit.  Less Risk  “It looks like there’s a little bit of a pullback in risk
seeking,” said Brian Kim, a currency strategist in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “There’s
still some overhand from the  Europe  situation on broader risk
appetite.”  A euro-area  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both manufacturing and services industries rose to
50.4 from 48.3 in December, London-based Markit Economics said
today. Economists predicted 48.5 in a Bloomberg survey. A
reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said a “moderate recession” is indicated in the
first half of this year and that a return to economic growth is
“likely to be postponed to the second half of this year.”  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for the
global economy as Europe slips into a recession and growth cools
in China and  India . The world economy will expand 3.3 percent
this year and 3.9 percent in 2013, compared with September
forecasts of 4 percent and 4.5 percent, the IMF said.  Borrowing Numbers  U.K.  net borrowing  excluding support for banks was 13.7
billion pounds in December compared with 15.9 billion pounds a
year earlier, the Office for National Statistics said today.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast 14.9 billion pounds.  The pound rose 0.4 percent to $1.5626 and appreciated 0.2
percent to 83.42 pence per euro.  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said slower inflation
gives policy makers room to increase bond purchases to aid the
U.K. economy and guard against a “renewed severe downturn.” He
spoke in a speech today in Brighton, England.  European finance ministers meeting in Brussels signaled
they would push Greece’s private investors to accept bigger
losses after  Charles Dallara , managing director of the Institute
of International Finance, made what he described as the
bondholders’ “maximum” offer. Euro area governments are
seeking to fill a deeper-than-expected hole in Greece’s finances
by saddling investors with a lower interest rate on exchanged
bonds, setting up a confrontation before a European Union summit
on Jan. 30.  The 17-nation currency also fell after  Standard & Poor’s 
cut the credit ratings of  Societe Generale , France’s second-
largest bank by market value, and Credit Agricole SA, the third-
largest, to A from A+ with stable outlook.  Financial markets in Asian countries including China and
South Korea were shut today for the Lunar New Year holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  