-- Dow Chemical Wins Appeal Backing $61.7 Million Nova Verdict
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-01-24T23:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/dow-chemical-wins-appeal-upholding-61-7-million-nova-verdict.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  won an appeals
court ruling that upholds a $61.7 million patent-infringement
verdict against  Nova Chemicals Corp. (NCX)  from 2010 related to
plastic used in grocery bags.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  rejected Nova’s arguments that its Surpass plastic
didn’t infringe two Dow patents, and that the patents were
invalid. The opinion was posted on the court’s website today.  Nova, owned by Abu Dhabi-based International Petroleum
Investment Co., was accused of using Dow inventions for polymers
that are thinner and stronger than conventional plastic. The
Federal Circuit said the patents clearly described what Dow said
it invented, and that the verdict of infringement “is supported
by substantial evidence.”  With interest, the jury award was $76 million, and the
company plans to seek “substantial additional damages” for
Nova’s continued infringement in the U.S. after 2009, said Bob Plishka, a spokesman for Dow.  The company is seeking damages and an order to block
further use of the inventions in  Canada , he said.  Nova had also argued that Midland, Michigan-based Dow
transferred the patents to a holding company for tax purposes.
The majority of the three-judge panel said the trial judge was
correct to rule that the patents weren’t part of the creation of
that holding company. Circuit Judge Jimmie Reyna said he would
have sided with Nova on that issue and thrown out the verdict.  Panel Split  Nova, while saying it was disappointed with the ruling,
pointed out that the panel was split. The company can ask the
panel to reconsider its findings, or ask that the entire court
consider the case.  “We’re reviewing the decision to determine what our next
steps will be,” Pace Markowitz, a spokesman for Nova, said by
telephone.  The case is Dow Chemical Co. v. Nova Chemicals Corp.,
10-1526,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Dow Chemical Co. v. Nova
Chemicals Corp., 05cv737, U.S. District Court for the District
of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  