-- DuPont Profit Tops Estimates on Higher Paint Pigment Prices
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-01-24T14:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/dupont-posts-greater-than-estimated-earnings-of-35-cents-in-fourth-quarter.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the most valuable U.S.
chemical maker, posted fourth-quarter profit that exceeded
analysts’ estimates as higher prices for titanium-dioxide
pigment and other products offset falling sales volumes.  Net income fell 0.8 percent to $373 million, or 40 cents a
share, from $376 million, or 40 cents, a year earlier,
Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont said today in a statement.
Profit excluding a gain from the sale of a business and other
one-time items was 35 cents, topping the 33-cent  average
estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Revenue rose 14 percent to $8.43 billion, trailing the
$8.53 billion average of 10 analysts’ estimates. That’s the
first miss on revenue since the third quarter of 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales volumes tumbled 10 percent
as DuPont sold less material to solar-panel and auto makers,
particularly in Asia and  Europe , said Karen Fletcher, a company
spokeswoman.  Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  is expanding
production of solar materials, titanium-dioxide, Kevlar used in
bullet-proof clothing and engineered crop seeds to boost per-
share earnings by about 12 percent a year through 2015. Fourth-
quarter earnings benefited from a 29 percent increase in prices
achieved by DuPont’s performance-chemicals unit, the world’s
biggest producer of titanium dioxide, a white pigment used to
add opacity to paints and plastic.  Danisco Contribution  Prices (ITDIEFDN)  for titanium dioxide, known by its chemical formula
TiO2, have climbed amid globally tight supplies of titanium ore.  “TiO2 is currently the best performing major product line
for DuPont,”  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst at
Ticonderoga Securities who rates the shares “buy,” said today
in a note.  DuPont  fell  0.8 percent to $48.96 at 9:36 a.m. in  New York .  Also contributing to profit growth were two units formed
from the $7.1 billion acquisition of Copenhagen-based Danisco
A/S in June. The nutrition unit, the world’s biggest producer of
food additives, and the industrial biosciences unit, the second-
largest maker of industrial enzymes for biofuels, each added $34
million to pretax operating income.  The former Danisco businesses are reducing the volatility
of DuPont’s earnings growth,  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based
analyst at Alembic Global Advisors, said in a phone interview.  Biofuels Program  The Danisco acquisition is the most significant example of
how Kullman is transforming DuPont from a chemical producer into
what she calls a science company focused on meeting global
demand for food, energy and safety. She is accelerating DuPont’s
biofuels program with construction set to begin this year on a
commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol plant.  DuPont reiterated that adjusted earnings this year will
grow 7 percent to 12 percent to $4.20 to $4.40 a share, from
$3.93 last year. That compares with the $4.26 average estimate
of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The decline in fourth-quarter sales volumes was led by a 23
percent drop in the Asia-Pacific region and by a 33 percent
decline in the electronics unit, which was hurt by weak demand
for photovoltaics and consumer electronics. Global sales volumes
hadn’t fallen since the third quarter of 2009, according a
presentation posted on DuPont’s website.  “We were all expecting volume weakness and we got it,”
Alembic’s Ahmed said. “The surprise was how weak volumes were
in  Asia .”  Items excluded from fourth-quarter net income include a
$122 million benefit from the sale of an undisclosed unit in the
performance-materials division. Also excluded was $100 million
to settle claims that DuPont’s Imprelis herbicide killed trees,
bringing total payments to $175 million, which the company will
seek to recoup from insurance carriers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  