-- DuPont Says Demand May Not Rebound Until Second Quarter
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-01-24T21:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/dupont-says-demand-may-not-rebound-until-second-quarter.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the U.S. chemical maker
that posted a 10 percent drop in fourth-quarter sales volumes,
said demand may not fully recover until the second quarter.  Sales volumes may decline again in the first three months
from a “strong” year-earlier period, even as volumes rise from
the fourth quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  said
today on a conference call with analysts. Manufacturers have
used up inventories and demand should increase starting late in
the current quarter, she said.  “Conditions will improve in many of our industrial
businesses as the year plays out,” Kullman said on the call.  DuPont, the most valuable U.S. chemical maker, posted
fourth-quarter profit excluding a gain from the sale of a
business and other one-time items of 35 cents a share, topping
the 33-cent  average estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. A 14 percent increase in average product prices and
the June acquisition of food-additives maker Danisco A/S helped
overcome the volume decline.  The year-end demand drop reflects customers’ cash
conservation and inventory management rather than macroeconomic
conditions, Kullman said.  “We expect some conservatism to linger in the first
quarter with a rebound effect likely to come in the second
quarter,” the CEO said on the call.  ‘Mixed Bag’  Sales volumes in the performance-materials unit, which
makes automotive plastics, may drop again in the current
quarter, reducing earnings, because of falling sales in  Europe 
and inventory management, said Karen Fletcher, a company
spokeswoman. Auto production may rise 4 percent this year,
compared with an earlier forecast of 6 percent, led by gains in
 China  and  North America , Kullman said.  “It’s really a mixed bag depending on where you are in the
world,” Kullman said on a separate call with reporters.  Demand for titanium dioxide, a white pigment that led
fourth-quarter price gains, may not fully recover until midyear,
Kullman said. Full-year volumes will meet or exceed 2011 levels,
she said.  Kullman is expanding production of solar materials,
titanium dioxide, Kevlar used in bullet-proof clothing and
engineered crop seeds to boost per-share earnings by about 12
percent a year through 2015. The acquisition of Copenhagen-based
Danisco is the most significant example of how Kullman is
transforming DuPont from a chemical producer into what she calls
a science company focused on meeting global demand for food,
energy and safety.  Currency ‘Headwind’  DuPont rose 0.1 percent to $49.41 at the close in  New York .
 The shares  have gained 7.9 percent this year.  A strong dollar will be a “headwind” of 25 cents a share
for the year, double the prior forecast, Chief Financial Officer
Nicholas Fanandakis said. The biggest impact will be on
agriculture results in the first half, when DuPont gets most of
its European seed and herbicide sales, he said.  DuPont reiterated that adjusted earnings this year will
grow 7 percent to 12 percent to $4.20 to $4.40 a share, from
$3.93 last year. That compares with the $4.26 average of 19
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  