-- China Loans Ecuador $1 Billion as Correa Plans First Bond Sale Since 2005
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-01-24T21:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/ecuador-borrows-from-china-seeks-bond-sale.html
Ecuador  received a loan commitment
from China last month for at least $1 billion, helping finance a
 budget deficit  that’s projected to reach $4.23 billion this
year, central bank President Pedro Delgado said.  The South American country also plans to tap international
debt markets this year, Delgado said yesterday in an interview
at his offices in  Quito , in what would be the first global sale
since it defaulted on $3.2 billion of bonds three years ago. The
government is seeking yields of no more than 7 percent, he said.
The yield on Ecuador’s 9.375 percent bonds maturing in 2015 has
fallen 104 basis points, or 1.04 percentage points, to 9.31
percent in the past year as of 4 p.m. New York time, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “At least $1 billion is covered with financing that was
obtained from  China  at the end of the year,” said Delgado, a
49-year-old economist.  Since Ecuador’s default, the government has borrowed about
$7.25 billion from China, or 16 percent of the country’s total
outstanding debt, according to  Fitch Ratings , in exchange for
future oil exports, tapped the nation’s public pension fund and
raised taxes on companies including oil producers and banks to
finance the budget.  Telephone calls to the Chinese embassy in Quito went
unanswered.  Bond Sale  Ecuador is in talks with Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ)  and  Clifford Chance LLP (1000L)  to structure the bond sale, Delgado
said.  “We are working on this very quickly and our goal is for
sometime this year,” Delgado said about the timing of the sale.
“Everything depends on the market environment.”  No one at Lazard or  Clifford Chance  responded to telephone
messages seeking comment.  Correa probably needs to offer investors higher yields than
similar-maturity Argentine bonds, said Michael Henderson, a
London-based economist at Capital Economics Ltd.  “Foreign investors are still pretty wary,” Henderson said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “They’ll do well to get 9
percent or better, although much depends on the specifics of the
offer.”  Delgado declined to provide more details about the planned
debt sale.  Ecuadorean government debt was the third-riskiest after
Venezuela and Ukraine as of yesterday among 15  emerging markets 
tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co., according to the bank’s EMBI+
indexes.  Repurchase Offer  Ecuador, which bought back 94 percent of its defaulted
bonds in 2009, may offer to repurchase the rest of its
outstanding debt due in 2012 and 2030, Delgado said. The Andean
country wouldn’t pay more than the original offer of 35 cents on
the dollar to holders of the securities, he said.  “There’s no reason why we would pay more than what we
offered before,” Delgado said. “It would be a very bad signal
to those who participated originally.”  President  Rafael Correa  stopped payments on $3.2 billion in
bonds due 2012 and 2030 in December 2008 and March 2009, saying
the securities were “illegitimate” and “illegal.” The
government’s bonds due in 2015 were the only global notes Correa
kept servicing.  Ecuador has no plans to stop payments on securities due in
2015, Delgado said.  “It’s been very clearly established that with the 2015
bonds there was no presumption of wrongfulness,” he said.
“These are being paid and they are being paid on time.”  Oil Prices  The biggest threat to Ecuador is a sustained fall in oil
prices as the country’s use of the  U.S. dollar  as its official
currency limits monetary-policy tools to spur growth, Henderson
said.  “If prices fall back, which they look set to do, obviously
the pace of growth that we’ve seen in the past couple of years
isn’t going to be sustainable,” Henderson said.  Correa’s administration, which has raised taxes nine times
since 2007, changed its oil laws in 2010 to give the government
greater control over crude reserves.  The government canceled oil and natural-gas contracts with
companies, including  Brazil ’s  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and
Houston-based  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  in November 2010 when they
refused to sign new contracts allowing the state to take an
increased share of profits.  Crude Exports  In the following 12 months, crude exports from Ecuador, the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ smallest member,
tumbled 22 percent to 7.38 million barrels per month as of
November, according to the most recent data from the country’s
central bank.  This year, the  Finance Ministry  estimates economic growth
will slow to 5.35 percent with oil prices averaging $79.7 per
barrel, according to the Finance Ministry’s 2012 budget. Planned
maintenance at the Esmeraldas refinery, which will go off line
for six months around the end of March, will cut the economy’s
expansion as the state spends more on subsidized fuel imports,
Delgado said.  The economy slowed in the third quarter to its weakest pace
since the first three months of 2010, expanding 1.74 percent
compared with 2.33 percent in the second quarter, the central
bank said last month. Year-on-year growth in the quarter was
little changed at 9 percent, the bank said.  Last year, Ecuador renewed a contract with  PetroChina Co. (601857) ,
China’s largest oil producer, for a $1 billion loan in exchange
for future crude sales. About half of Ecuador’s crude exports go
to China as part of its debt payments with the Asian nation,
according to the nation’s state-owned oil company PetroEcuador.  The Finance Ministry said June 27 that it signed an
additional $2 billion loan with China Development Bank Corp. to
finance public works projects and announced July 1 it will get a
$571 million loan from the Export-Import Bank of China to build
a hydroelectric plant in the southern Andes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  