-- Medicines Co., Perrigo, Lauder, SOPA: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-24T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/medicines-co-perrigo-lauder-sopa-intellectual-property.html
Medicines Co. (MDCO)  and  Fresenius (FRE) ’s  APP
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (APPX)  settled litigation over patents for the
Angiomax anticoagulant drug, with Medicines agreeing to pay $30
million to license some APP drugs.  Medicines Co., based in Parsippany, New Jersey, sued
Schaumburg, Illinois-based APP in October 2009 IN Wilmington,
Delaware, federal court alleging patent infringement for plans
to market a generic copy of Angiomax. APP announced the
settlement yesterday.  “The settlement agreement includes a license by The
Medicines Co. to APP” to sell generic Angiomax in the U.S.
starting May 1, 2019, Medicines said in a statement.  Medicines will pay APP $30 million for a non-exclusive
license “to sell 10 specified generic products” to hospitals
and suppliers until Jan. 22, 2022, according to a Medicines
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The case is The Medicines Co. v. APP Pharmaceuticals, 09-
CV-00752, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Perrigo, Apotex Sued by Meda Over Generic Astepro Spray  Generic drugmakers  Perrigo Co. (PRGO)  and Apotex Inc. were sued by
 Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. (783447Q)  and accused of infringing a U.S.
patent for the nasal spray Astepro, used to treat allergies.  Meda, based in Somerset, New Jersey, contends Perrigo,
based in Allegan,  Michigan , and Apotex, of Toronto, plan to
market copies of the drug before its U.S. patent 8,071,073
expires in 2028. It filed a complaint Jan. 19 in federal court
in Trenton, New Jersey.  “Perrigo is committed to making quality health care more
affordable for our customers,” Chief Executive Officer Joseph
C. Papa said yesterday in a statement.  An Apotex spokesman, Elie Betito, didn’t immediately reply
to voice and e-mail messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Meda is a unit of Solna, Sweden-based  Meda AB. (MEDAA)   The case is Meda v. Apotex, 12-cv-361, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Trenton).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Estee Lauder  Sued Over Use of ‘Empress’ for SeanJohn Fragrance  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL)  and its M.A.C. Cosmetics unit were sued
for trademark infringement by a maker of hair-care products.  According to the complaint filed Jan. 10 in federal court
in Manhattan,  Empress Inc.  of  Dallas  objects to the use of the
word “Empress” for fragrances and other cosmetic products made
by Estee Lauder for performer  Sean Jean Combs ’ Sean John
Fragrances.  Empress, whose products target African-American women, said
it’s been in existence as a unit of Dallas-based Colberts Inc.,
since 2002. It registered its marks in the U.S.,  Canada  and
 Europe , according to the complaint.  The Texas company said that despite its opposition to the
issuance of any Empress-related marks for the Sean John products
and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s refusal to register
the marks, an Empress SeanJohn fragrance was released in August.  Customers are confused by SeanJohn’s use of the name, and
Empress said it received inquiries from customers who were
“surprised as to who was selling the products.”  It claims to be damaged by the use of the word “Empress”
for the SeanJohn products, and asked the court to bar further
infringement of its trademarks. Additionally, it seeks a court
order for the destruction of all infringing promotional
materials, and awards of money damages, defendants’ profits
flowing from the alleged infringement, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  New York-based Estee Lauder doesn’t comment on pending
litigation, spokeswoman Kathleen Pierce said in an e-mail.  Empress is represented by  Stephen R. Roth ,  Orville R.
Cockings  and  Aaron S. Eckenthal   of Lerner David Littenberg
Krumholz & Mentlik LLP  of Westfield, New Jersey.  The case is Empress Inc. v. SeanJohn Fragrances, 1:12-cv-
00193-KMW, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  New College of Humanities Trademark Application Rejected in U.K.  The New College of the Humanities, a private school in
 London  whose tuition is twice that of the maximum for public
universities in the U.K., had its application to register its
name as a trademark rejected by that country’s Intellectual
Property Office, the BBC  reported .  University of Oxford’s New College had raised concerns
about possible confusion the new school’s name would cause and
itself registered “New College, Oxford” as a trademark,
according to the BBC.  The private school told the BBC it will re-apply to
register its name as a trademark “in due course” and that it
expects to be successful the next time.  Government officials had challenged the private school’s
use of the term “university college,” noting it hadn’t
received that status and lacked the power to award its own
degrees, according to the BBC.  Alberta’s Queen of Tarts to Change Name to Dauphine After Suit  An Ontario pastry chef whose tarts were featured on Martha
Stewart’s television program sued an Alberta bakery owner for
trademark infringement, Canada’s CTV.com  reported .  The fight is over the “Queen of Tarts” trademark
registered to Stephanie Pick of Toronto in 2004, according to
CTV.com.  Linda Kearney began using the Queen of Tarts to sell her
lemon tarts in an Edmonton, Alberta, farmers market, and later
owned a bakery and café by the same name, CTV.com reported.  Pick was ordered to pay $10,000 in damages and to find a
new name for her business, which she told CTV.com will be
“Dauphine,” and has now cautioned other new business owners to
register their trademarks.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Music Group Urges ‘Hysterical’ SOPA Detractors to Be More French  The U.S. music industry would get a boost from tighter
controls on pirated content, just as  France  has seen digital
music sales rise after introducing its own rules, said an
industry group representing record labels.  Digital album sales rose 71 percent last year in France
compared with 19 percent in the U.S., the largest music market,
according to a study by the International Federation of the
Phonographic Industry, which represents record companies such as
Universal Music, Sony Music and EMI.  More than a fourth of users steal music online, causing
industrywide sales declines, the IFPI said. Still, U.S. Web
companies have fought against the Protect IP Act and the Stop
Online Piracy Act, the most recently proposed anti-piracy
legislation, which they say would require them to police users
and would restrict innovation. Wikipedia took its encyclopedia
offline and  Google Inc. put  a black bar across its logo in
protest last week. The reaction caused lawmakers to shelve the
bills.  “We’ve seen some pretty hysterical reaction to those
bills, but if you look in the long run, it is never easy to move
those things forward,” said Frances Moore, chief executive of
IFPI, which is affiliated with the Recording Industry
Association of America in the U.S. “It isn’t a question of
whether they will tackle piracy; it’s how they will tackle
piracy.”  The French legislation, passed in 2009, has increased sales
of singles on  Apple Inc. (APPL) ’s iTunes music service by 23 percent,
the IFPI said. The French law, which gives illegal downloaders
three warnings before their case is sent to a criminal court,
was opposed by Internet service providers.  Digital music revenue grew 8 percent worldwide last year to
$5.2 billion and helped slow declines in total music sales to 3
percent from 8 percent in 2010, the IFPI said. Digital music
sales in the U.S. have become the primary source of revenue for
record companies.  “Our digital business is progressing in spite of the
environment in which it operates, not because of it,” Moore
said. “We need legislation from governments with coordinated
measures that deal with piracy effectively and in all its forms.
We also need more cooperation from intermediaries such as search
engines and advertisers.”  NinjaVideo Founder Gets 14-Month Sentence in Copyright Case  One of the founders of a website that enabled unauthorized
downloading of television programs and movies has received a
prison sentence in connection with a guilty plea in a criminal
copyright-infringement case, according to Bloomberg data.  Matrhew David Howard Smith, 24, of Raleigh,  North Carolina ,
will serve 14 months in federal prison, according to the
sentence handed down Jan. 20. He pleaded guilty to conspiracy
and criminal copyright infringement in federal court Sept. 23.  He and four others associated with NinjaVideo were indicted
Sept. 9. He acknowledged that his company collected more than
$500,000 during its two years of operation. Visitors to the
NinjaVideo website could download some content for free, and
could get access to other material by making donations to the
site.  Smith must also pay more than $172,000 in restitution. He
had asked for a sentence of probation or home confinement
instead of imprisonment.  The case is U.S.A. v. Veshara, 1:11-cr-00447-AJT, U.S.
District Court, District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Sanofi Research Chemist Pleads Guilty in Trade Secrets Case  A research chemist entered a guilty plea to stealing trade
secrets from her former employer  Sanofi-Aventis. (SAN)   Yuan Li, a Chinese citizen living in Somerset, New Jersey,
pleaded guilty to taking data related to Sanofi compounds and
selling this information -- including their chemical structures
-- through the website belonging to a company in which she had a
50 percent ownership.  According to court papers, Li was a partner in Abby
Pharmatech Inc., which was purported to be a subsidiary of a
chemical company in Xiamen,  China . Between October 2008 and June
2011, she assigned Abby catalog numbers to the chemical
structures of the Sanofi compounds and offered them for sale.  Li entered her plea in federal court in Trenton, New
Jersey, Jan. 17. She faces a potential 10-year prison sentence
and a $250,000 fine.  Sentencing is set for April 23.  Li was represented by  Paul Brickfield  of  Brickfield &
Donahue  of River Edge,  New Jersey . The government’s case was
prosecuted by Gurbir S. Grewal of the Economic Crimes Unit of
the S.S. Attorney’s Office in  Newark , New Jersey.  The case is U.S. A. v. Li, 3:12-cr-00034-JAP, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  Lawmakers Consider Trade Secret Measure for Heliskiing GPS Data  Lawmakers in Alaska’s Haines Borough are considering a
measure that would designate as protectable trade secrets global
positioning system data used for helicopter skiing, Alaska’s
Chilkat Daily News  reported .  Under the present law all commercial ski-tour operators are
required to use as GPS system capable of tracking and preserving
information about the routes they use to and from skiing and
snowboarding areas, according to the newspaper.  Sean Brownell of  Alaska Heliskiing  wrote the lawmakers
demanding the data be kept from public view or “you will be
giving away our trade secrets and competitors in the heliskiing
industry would have access to all our research and confidential
information and where we ski,” the Daily News reported.  One Haines Borough lawmaker who objected to keeping the
data confidential compared the ski operations to the fishing
industry, saying “the state tells you where you can fish, but
where you put your net in the water is not proprietary,”
according to the Daily News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 