-- Megaupload’s Dotcom in Custody as New Zealand Awaits Extradition Request
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-01-24T06:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/megaupload-s-dotcom-in-custody-as-new-zealand-awaits-extradition-request.html
Kim Dotcom, the founder of
 Megaupload.com , has been detained in  New Zealand  on charges of
copyright infringement conspiracy under a U.S. request for
provisional arrest ahead of a formal extradition request.  The U.S. had sought the arrest of Dotcom, who was held
after a Jan. 20 helicopter raid on his leased Auckland mansion,
before an extradition request, Elizabeth Collins, a spokeswoman
at New Zealand’s Ministry of Justice, said in an e-mail today.
Requests for provisional arrests are made when there’s concern a
suspect will flee, according to New Zealand’s extradition law.  Dotcom is sought in the U.S. where he was indicted on
charges his file-sharing website was part of a $175 million
copyright infringement conspiracy with pirated film and music
files being exchanged. Copyright law is complex and extradition
on copyright offenses hasn’t been tested in any international
court yet, according to  Rick Shera , a New Zealand lawyer who
specializes in  information technology .  “This is, as far as we all know, the first case in which
this type of activity has really been brought to court in a way
which both parties will have their arguments heard,” Shera, a
partner at Lowndes Jordan in Auckland, said. “The dividing line
between a site which is providing these sorts of services
legitimately and one which is providing them illegally is a fine
one, and no one quite knows where the line is.”  Dotcom, Megaupload’s German founder who legally changed his
family name from Schmitz, was charged in the U.S. because some
of the site’s servers were based in Virginia and  Washington ,
according to U.S.  Justice Department ’s indictment.  Has 45 Days  “The next step in this particular case is for New Zealand
to receive a formal request for extradition,” Collins said.
“In accordance with the treaty on extradition between the
 United States  and New Zealand, the United States has 45 days
from the date of the arrest to provide this request.”  New Zealand prosecutors must show Dotcom is accused of an
offense that would be punishable by at least 12 months in jail
in both the U.S. and New Zealand, according to the 1999
 Extradition Act . Dotcom remains in a New Zealand jail, awaiting
a judge’s decision on his request to be released on bail.  North Shore District Judge David McNaughton said he would
rule on the bail request by tomorrow.  When police arrived at Dotcom’s house, on the eve of his
38th birthday, he activated electronic locks and sought refuge
in a safe room, New Zealand police said in a  statement . Police
neutralized locks and cut their way into the safe room, where
Dotcom was found with what looked like a sawed-off shotgun,
according to the statement.  Pink Cadillac  In the raid, police said they seized 18  luxury vehicles ,
including a Rolls Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe and a 1959 pink
Cadillac. The vehicles are valued at NZ$6 million ($4.9
million). Police said as much as NZ$11 million in cash was
restrained in various accounts.  Megaupload was advertised as having more than 1 billion
visitors, more than 150 million users, 50 million daily
visitors, and accounted for 4 percent of  Internet traffic , U.S.
prosecutors said.  The accused ran websites that unlawfully copied works
including films, music and television programs for more than
five years, the U.S. said. The arrests occurred as the  U.S.
Congress  considers anti-piracy legislation supported by the
movie and music industries that has prompted a backlash from
companies including Google Inc., the nonprofit Wikimedia
Foundation Inc. and Web consumers.  The conspiracy was led by Dotcom, a resident of  Hong Kong 
and New Zealand, and a dual citizen of Finland and  Germany , who
founded Megaupload Ltd., according to the indictment. Police
also arrested a Dutch citizen who lives in New Zealand and two
German nationals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  