-- Megaupload’s Dotcom Seen as Flight Risk by New Zealand Judge Denying Bail
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-01-25T00:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/megaupload-founder-dotcom-denied-bail.html
Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom,
accused of the biggest copyright infringement conspiracy in U.S.
history, will remain in a  New Zealand  jail after a judge refused
his bail request on concerns he would escape the country.  The risk of Dotcom fleeing New Zealand to a jurisdiction
such as his home country of Germany, which has no extradition
treaty with the U.S., was too great to release him, North Shore
District Judge David McNaughton wrote in a 20-page ruling
released by e-mail today.  Dotcom, 38, is sought in the U.S. where he was indicted on
charges his file-sharing website was part of a $175 million
copyright infringement conspiracy with pirated film and music
files being exchanged. He was arrested at his leased New Zealand
mansion on Jan. 20 and the U.S. has 45 days from the arrest date
to file a formal extradition request.  “Flight risk remains a real and significant possibility,”
McNaughton wrote. “I am sure that he has the financial
resources to obtain forged identity or travel documents and to
arrange transport out of the country by covert means should he
choose to do so.”  Dotcom, who legally changed his family name from Schmitz,
had access to 23 separate bank accounts in  Hong Kong  that held
more than NZ$26 million ($21 million), according to the ruling.
The FBI said his earnings for the 2010 calendar year were $42
million and it said he had NZ$10 million in New Zealand
government bonds.  From Germany to  Thailand   Prosecutors said Dotcom fled to Thailand from Germany
following an investigation a decade ago before being arrested
and returned to his homeland, according to the ruling. Dotcom
was convicted of computer hacking in 1998,  insider trading  in
2003 and for failing to disclose some share purchases last year,
McNaughton wrote. He holds a “number” of passports, the judge
said.  Dotcom “emphatically” denied any criminal misconduct, in
a statement to the court, according to the ruling.  “He denies the existence of the so-called Mega
Conspiracy,” McNaughton wrote.  Megaupload was a file storage facility, allowing users to
upload their own digital files and providing a link that let
other users access those files, Dotcom said in the statement.  Agreements  The file-sharing website had agreements with major rights
holders including the  Recording Industry Association of America ,
the  Motion Picture Association  of America, Disney, Warner
Brothers and others and removed any copyrighted items within 24
hours of being notified, according to the U.S. Digital Millenium
Copyright Act, the judge cited Dotcom as saying.  “This is a novel situation,” Rick Shera, a partner at
Lowndes Jordan in Auckland who specializes in  information
technology , said in a phone interview yesterday. “The dividing
line between a site which is providing these sorts of services
legitimately and one which is providing them illegally is a fine
one, and no one quite knows where the line is.”  Dotcom will appeal the judge’s ruling, his lawyer, Paul
Davison, told reporters outside court, according to the
stuff.co.nz  website . Davison couldn’t be reached for comment and
his office phone line was constantly busy.  Safe Room  When police arrived at Dotcom’s house on Jan. 20, he
activated electronic locks and sought refuge in a safe room, New
Zealand police said in a statement. Police neutralized locks and
cut their way into the safe room, where Dotcom was sitting
cross-legged on the floor near a safe that contained a loaded
shotgun.  Dotcom’s unlawful possession of the gun “suggests a level
of criminality which to my mind could easily extend to
exploiting criminal connections to obtain false travel documents
and leave the country undetected,” McNaughton wrote.  In the raid, police said they seized 18  luxury vehicles ,
including a Rolls Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe and a 1959 pink
Cadillac. The vehicles are valued at NZ$6 million. Police said
as much as NZ$11 million in cash was restrained in various
accounts. The U.S. received restraining orders for assets valued
at $175 million, including some assets in New Zealand, the judge
said.  U.S. Servers  The U.S. indicted Dotcom because some of Megaupload’s
servers were based in that country. Other servers were based in
 Canada  and the Netherlands, according to the ruling.  Dotcom’s participation in a 2006 gumball rally event was
typical of his conduct, according to McNaughton’s ruling. Dotcom
was driving at speeds of 250 kilometers (155 miles) per hour and
refused to pull over to a police check point when signaled, the
judge said. McNaughton said that incident didn’t factor in his
decision “whatsoever”.  Megaupload was advertised as having more than 1 billion
visitors, more than 150 million users, 50 million daily
visitors, and accounted for 4 percent of  Internet traffic , U.S.
prosecutors said. New Zealand prosecutors must show Dotcom is
accused of an offence that would be punishable by at least 12
months in jail in both the U.S. and New Zealand, according to
the 1999 Extradition Act.  “It is submitted that this is the largest prosecution to
date for infringement of copyright in the  United States ,”
McNaughton said in the ruling. “The offending is described as
unprecedented and most serious.”  Dotcom and four others were arrested Jan. 20 in New Zealand
on U.S. charges of criminal copyright infringement, conspiracy
to commit racketeering and money laundering. A fifth person was
arrested in the Netherlands, while a sixth man fled from the
 Philippines  to  Germany , according to the ruling.  The racketeering and money laundering charges each carry
maximum penalties of 20 years imprisonment and U.S. prosecutors
will press for the maximum penalty if the men are convicted,
McNaughton wrote.  The case is Kim Dotcom v.  United States of America . DCNSD
[25 January 2012]. District Court at North Shore ( Albany ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  