-- Thousands of Egyptians Rally to Mark Anniversary of Uprising
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-01-25T15:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/egypt-marks-anniversary-of-uprising.html
Tens of thousands of Egyptians
poured into the capital’s  Tahrir Square , many to protest against
the ruling generals, others to celebrate the anniversary of the
start of the uprising that ended  Hosni Mubarak ’s rule.  “I took part in the revolution a year ago and had high
hopes that change would be swift,” said Ahmed al-Keelani, a 41-
year-old hotel worker who came with his wife and two daughters
to Tahrir Square. “Instead, we got stuck in a drawn-out plan
that kept the military council in power.”  The ruling generals, who took over after Mubarak’s ouster,
have issued a mixture of warnings and promises in recent weeks
aimed at the two sides, cautioning against “foreign hands” and
“third parties” fomenting unrest while pledging to release
prisoners and partially lift the country’s state of emergency,
which extends the powers of the police.  Protesters accuse the army of mismanaging the country’s
transition and using tactics similar to Mubarak’s government to
stifle dissent. Dozens have been killed in clashes between
demonstrators and security forces in the past three months.
Seven weeks of elections, in which Islamist groups took almost
three-quarters of the seats in parliament, have failed to quiet
activists organizing the anti-military rallies.  “There may be hundreds of thousands in the streets, but
the impact won’t be as powerful,” said  Shadi Hamid , director of
research at the Brookings Doha Center in  Qatar , ahead of the
anniversary. “The majority either has strong faith in the
parliament or have had enough with street protests.”  Army Band  In the Mohandeseen neighborhood of Cairo, a group of
protestors interrupted a performance by an armed forces band
with chants of “Down with military rule.”  “What are you celebrating?” Ashraf el-Abyad, a 32-year-
old interior designer asked clapping bystanders as he held up a
rag soaked in blood that he said he found after clashes during
the uprising last January. “Are you celebrating this?”  “Enough! Have some mercy on this country. It was the army
that protected your revolution,” Mona Ramadan, 42, shot back.
“Do you want to destroy the country?”  Protests and rallies were also being held in cities
throughout  Egypt , including Alexandria and Suez.  The army council pledged Jan. 21 to release 1,959 prisoners
convicted by military courts since the beginning of last year.
This decision, as well as the suspension of the emergency law,
was unlikely to affect the public mood, Hamid said. “It doesn’t
change anything fundamental. Those who are against the army
remain against and those who are supportive still support it.”  Cede Authority  The ruling generals have said they will cede authority once
there is an elected president and a new constitution. Egypt’s
elected assembly, which is dominated by the Muslim Brotherhood’s
Freedom & Justice party, held its inaugural session Jan. 23. One
of its first tasks is to select a committee that will write the
new constitution. The army has said presidential elections will
be held by the end of June.  In a poll of Egyptians released today by Gallup Middle East
&  Africa , based in  Abu Dhabi , 86 percent of people said they
planned to vote in presidential elections but a majority said
they didn’t know for whom.  Amre Moussa , the former head of the
 Arab League , led the poll with 17 percent of votes.  The newly formed parliament also demanded the creation of a
fact-finding committee to investigate violence during the
protests of the past year. At least 846 people were killed
during the revolt that led to Mubarak’s departure last February.  The unrest has deterred tourists and foreign investors and
curbed economic growth to 1.8 percent in the fiscal year through
June, the slowest pace in at least a decade. Tourist arrivals
fell 33 percent last year, while international reserves are at
the lowest level since March 2005.  Egypt formally requested a $3.2 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  on Jan. 16 to support the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Cairo at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  