-- Egypt Accepts Most Repos in Four Weeks After Local Yields Surge
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-01-24T13:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/egypt-accepts-most-repos-in-four-weeks-after-local-yields-surge.html
Egypt  sold 20 billion Egyptian
pounds ($3.3 billion) in seven-day  repurchase agreements  today,
the most this year, after funding pressure at local banks drove
domestic debt yields to records.  The North African country’s central bank received bids
valued at 22 billion pounds compared with 12.6 billion pounds
last week, according to its data on Bloomberg. The agreements
allow government security holders to sell them back to the
regulator to access funds at a rate of 9.75 percent.  Yields on pound-denominated treasury bills have continued
to climb even as Egypt’s interim government requested a $3.2
billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund  to help
support an 18-month economic plan. Local banks borrowed about
138 billion pounds through repo contracts last quarter, about
double the amount in the previous three months, as they raised
holdings of government debt in the absence of foreign investors.  “There’s a very clear liquidity squeeze and the repo
auctions give the central bank a money-injection tool,” said
Moustafa Assal, head of fixed income at Cairo-based Beltone
Financial.  New parliament members elected a candidate of the Muslim
Brotherhood’s party as speaker yesterday in the chamber’s first
session since the ouster of former President  Hosni Mubarak .
Presidential elections are due to be held in mid-June, according
to a timeline set by the ruling military council.  T-Bill Yields  The  Finance Ministry  paid an average yield of 15.802
percent at an auction of  nine-month treasury bills  on Jan. 22,
the highest level since Bloomberg started tracking the data in
2006. The yield on  one-year notes  was also at a record 15.774
percent at a sale last week. Yields on Egypt’s dollar bonds and
its  default risk  have dropped to the lowest levels in six weeks
since the start of IMF debt talks.  The yield on the 5.75 percent dollar bonds due April 2020
fell for the eighth time in nine days, dropping 24 basis points,
or 0.24 of a percentage point, to 7.47 percent at 3:15 p.m. in
Cairo, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Five-year credit default swaps advanced three basis points
to 580, still near the lowest since Dec. 12, according to CMA.
The data provider is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  