-- Eli Manning’s Toughness Translates to Giants’ Success, Coach Coughlin Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/eli-manning-s-toughness-translates-to-giants-success-coach-coughlin-says.html
Eli Manning of the  New York Giants 
is the most durable quarterback in the National Football League
right now and his physical toughness has extended to the team’s
mentality, coach  Tom Coughlin  said.  Manning, 31, has started 129 straight games, including the
postseason, dating back to 2004 for the Giants, who play the  New
England Patriots  in the Super Bowl on Feb. 5.  “We have such great trust in him,” Coughlin said of
Manning on a media conference call yesterday. “He stands in
there and he’ll take the blows, he’ll get right back up, he gets
right back in the huddle, he’s the same positive influence on
everybody around him.”  Manning threw for a career-high 4,933 yards during the
regular season and has helped the Giants to five straight
victories, including three in the playoffs. He popped right back
up every time he was knocked down in the Giants’ 20-17 overtime
win against the  San Francisco  49ers, a victory that sent New
York back to the Super Bowl for the second time in five seasons.  Manning set franchise postseason records with 58 pass
attempts and 32 completions two days ago at rainy  Candlestick
Park  and didn’t turn the ball over even though he was sacked six
times and knocked down 12 times by the 49ers.  “He doesn’t get real upset and point the finger or want to
know what the deal is,” Coughlin said. “He’s got a real sense
of toughness about him and it’s demonstrated by the way in which
he plays.”  Passing [bn:PRSN=1707653] Peyton  Manning [] now has a chance to win his second  Super Bowl  title,
which would be one more than elder brother Peyton. And he can do
it with a victory in Indianapolis, the city in which Peyton has
spent 14 years with the Colts, winning four NFL Most Valuable
Player awards.  “I’ve been proud of Eli all year,” Peyton, 35, told
reporters in San Francisco after the NFC championship game.
“I’ve really gotten to see more of his games this year because
of my injury, so it’s been fun to watch him play. He’s been
clutch all season long. Fourth-quarter comebacks. When they’ve
needed him, he’s always been there.”  Eli Manning hasn’t missed a snap this season.  With  Peyton Manning ’s streak of 227 straight starts coming
to an end this season following neck surgery, Eli’s run is now
the longest by an active NFL quarterback and the third longest
in league history.  Brett Favre  holds the NFL record of 321
consecutive quarterback starts.  Fourth-Quarter Comebacks  Eli Manning  also threw 15 fourth-quarter touchdown passes
this season, breaking Peyton’s single-season record, and among
his six fourth-quarter comebacks was a Nov. 7 win in  New England 
that ended the Patriots’ 20-game home winning streak. It was the
last loss this season for the Patriots, who have won their past
10 games and are 15-3 overall.  The Giants rebounded from a four-game losing skid following
their win in New England in large part due to Manning, who said
he’s focused on what the opportunity in Indianapolis means to
the team, not to his legacy. The Giants, who were 7-7 a month
ago, enter the Super Bowl with a 12-7 record.  “I’m just thinking about this team and this opportunity
and what we’ve overcome and been through,” Manning said. “We
kept believing in our team that we could get hot and play our
best football. Hopefully, we can continue this momentum.”  Manning four years ago helped the Giants beat New England
17-14 in the Super Bowl with a touchdown pass with 35 seconds
left. He now can join the Patriots’  Tom Brady  and the Pittsburgh
Steelers’  Ben Roethlisberger  as the only active quarterbacks
with multiple Super Bowl victories.  “I’m not saying Eli Manning is better than Tom Brady, but
Eli Manning is playing better than Tom Brady since Week 14,”
former Super Bowl-winning quarterback Trent Dilfer, now an NFL
analyst for ESPN, said on ESPN radio. “He’s playing the best at
quarterback of anybody in football. This is as good a
quarterback matchup as you’ll find, and Eli Manning has the
advantage right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  