-- Elpida Shares Rise After Report on Merger Talks: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-01-24T02:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/elpida-shares-advance-after-yomiuri-report-on-merger-talks-tokyo-mover.html
Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , the Japanese
chipmaker facing an April deadline to repay debts, rose for a
sixth day in Tokyo after the Yomiuri said it’s in merger talks
with  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  and  Nanya Technology Corp. (2408)   Elpida climbed as much as 6.3 percent to 373 yen and traded
at 362 yen as of 10:27 a.m. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, headed
for the longest streak of gains since November 2010.  Japan ’s
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average added 0.2 percent.  The Tokyo-based chipmaker needs about 92 billion yen ($1.2
billion) to repay  loans  and bonds by April, the Yomiuri
reported, without saying where it got the information. Elpida
may ask the Innovation Network Corp., a government-affiliated
technology fund, to invest 100 billion yen as the company needs
to buy equipment to improve its chips, the report said.  “The report boosts optimism that the company can come
through this trouble,”  Mitsuo Shimizu , an equity analyst at
Cosmo Securities Co. in Tokyo, said by phone. “It can probably
secure enough funds from banks and the government.”  Elpida said in a statement that the Yomiuri report “isn’t
factual” and that it declined to comment on rumors and
speculation.  Dan Francisco, a spokesman for Boise, Idaho-based Micron,
also declined to comment. Calls to Taoyuan, Taiwan-based Nanya
went unanswered today, which is a public holiday on the island.  Falling Chip Prices  Falling  prices  of dynamic random access memory chips used
in personal computers and a stronger yen led Elpida to post a
fourth consecutive quarterly loss in the three months ended
Sept. 30. Elpida is the world’s third-largest chipmaker after
Samsung Electronics Corp. and Hynix Semiconductor Inc.  Elpida is open to tie-ups with Nanya and Inotera Memories
Inc., and the company had considered buying stakes in Taiwanese
chipmakers including Powerchip Technology Corp. and ProMos
Technologies Inc., Yukio Sakamoto, chief executive officer of
Elpida, said in an interview in October 2010. In February 2011,
he said the Japanese company had dropped plans to merge with
Taiwanese chipmakers.  Inotera is a venture between Micron and Nanya.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  