-- Emerging-Market Stocks Retreat on Greek Debt Deal Deadlock
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-01-24T21:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/emerging-markets-stocks-extend-january-rally-as-india-cuts-reserve-ratio.html
Emerging-market stocks fell from the
highest level in three months amid a stalemate between European
finance ministers and bondholders over how to resolve Greece’s
debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.2 percent to 997.60
at the close in New York, after ending yesterday at the highest
since Oct. 28. The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  jumped 1.5 percent
after the central bank unexpectedly cut the cash reserve ratio.
The  BUX Index (BUX)  slid 0.9 percent in Budapest and  Russia ’s Micex
dropped 0.7 percent. The  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index advanced for a
seventh day, its longest winning streak in 15 months.  European finance ministers balked at putting up more public
money for Greece, calling on bondholders to provide greater debt
relief in order to point the way out of the two-year-old debt
crisis. An accord with bondholders is essential to a second
financing package for  Greece , which faces a 14.5 billion euro
($18.8 billion) bond payment on March 20.  “There’s still quite a lot of headwinds that markets will
continue to face over the next few months and I don’t expect
that it will just be smooth sailing from here,” said  Nick Chamie , global head of  emerging markets  at  RBC Capital Markets .
“We’ll probably see further bouts of weakness and financial
market strains.”  The MSCI gauge of emerging-market stocks has advanced 8.9
percent this year, compared with a 4.6 percent increase for
developed-nation shares. The Emerging Markets Index trades for
10 times projected earnings, trailing the 12 times multiple for
MSCI’s developed-market measure.  Growth Outlook  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global
economic growth this year to 3.3 percent from a September
estimate of 4 percent, citing a European recession and slowing
expansion in  China  and  India . Growth in 2013 will be 3.9
percent, less than the previous projection of 4.5 percent, the
IMF said.  “The near-term outlook has noticeably deteriorated,” the
IMF said in an update of its World Economic Outlook report.
“The global recovery is threatened by intensifying strains in
the euro area and fragilities elsewhere.”  Brazil ’s Bovespa index advanced 0.2 percent as mining
companies  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA  and  Vale SA (VALE5)  followed
metal prices higher. MMX rose 2.1 percent and  Vale  gained 1.3
percent. The  Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index 
rallied 0.5 percent.  Russia, India  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , Russia’s second-largest oil producer, sank 1.7
percent in Moscow as crude retreated.  India’s central bank cut the amount of deposits banks must
set aside as reserves for the first time since 2009. The  Reserve
Bank of India  reduced the  cash reserve ratio  to 5.5 percent from
6 percent, seeking to add about 320 billion rupees ($6.4
billion) into banks, it said in a statement today. The decision
was predicted by three of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
with two foreseeing a quarter-point cut and the rest no change.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd ., India’s largest engineering company,
surged 5.8 percent. The stock has jumped 36 percent this month,
set for its best monthly rally since May 2009.  State Bank of
India Ltd ., the nation’s biggest lender, increased 5.2 percent.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 407 basis points, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. ’s EMBI Global Index.  Markets in China,  Hong Kong ,  South Korea  and  Taiwan  were
shut for a holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  