-- Lemur, Nude Nun, Donald Trump Play With Soccer Dads: Interview
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/lemur-nude-nun-terrorists-donald-trump-play-with-soccer-dads-interview.html
After drinking too many gin and
tonics in  Donald Trump ’s private Republican National Convention
skybox, Jeffrey Peckerman accidentally urinates on Sarah Palin’s
head.  This comes near the end of “Lunatics,” a novel written by
Pulitzer Prize-winner Dave Barry, whose books include “Dave
Barry’s Guide to Marriage and/or Sex,” and Alan Zweibel of
“Saturday Night Live” and “Curb Your Enthusiasm” fame.  It’s the story of two Jewish New Jersey soccer dads,
plumber Jeffrey Peckerman, written by Barry, and pet shop owner
Philip Horkman, written by Zweibel, who hate each other yet wind
up together, running from police, terrorists, thugs, pirates and
ferocious bears -- in Central Park.  At one point, in a cave in Yemen, the duo is ordered to
host a propaganda show described by the director as “joshing
camaraderie between two humorous friends, interspersed with
playful references to the need to exterminate all Jews from the
planet.”  Universal Pictures  has bought “Lunatics” as a vehicle for
 Steve Carell , and the Barry-Zweibel team is working on the
screenplay.  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York .  Lundborg: Who did more work?  Zweibel: He did.  Jeffrey Peckerman  Barry: It was 50-50, though at the end I put more thought
in because he showed no signs of wanting to finish it, so I had
to say, “Alan, it’s due tomorrow.”  Lundborg: What was the work process like?  Zweibel: I would write a chapter for my character, Philip
Horkman, and send it to Dave, not knowing what he’s going to do
with it.  Then three or four days later it would be in my inbox and
I’d open it and go, “Okay, so there’s a lot of diarrhea in this
submarine now.”  Lundborg: Which character was easier to write?  Barry: Definitely mine. All I had to do was figure out what
would be the most wrong thing to do, the most thoughtless, rude,
unacceptable thing, and that would be Jeffrey Peckerman.  Lundborg: What’s your favorite bit?  Zweibel: I love the epilogue. We had so many loose ends,
like the woman with the insulin pump. And Buddy the Lemur.  Barry: The scene in the cave where they have to make a
television broadcast. The two are surrounded by terrorists and
Alan has them telling jokes.  Lemur Wrangler  Lundborg: Your movie seems as expensive to produce as a
James Bond picture. Is that a problem?  Zweibel: Actually, the figure $300 million came up very
quickly.  Barry: That’s just the lemur budget. We have to get a lemur
wrangler. But you might just see animals borrowed from “The
Lord of the Rings.”  Lundborg: You’re both old hands at comedy, so does it get
easier?  Barry: No. But you get more confidence that if you put in
the time, you have the tools to make it work. The only times it
gets easier is if you lower your standards.  Lundborg: Our political climate certainly makes it seem
easier. For example, you wrote that  Rick Perry  said his goal was
“restoring the fundamental American right to life, liberty and
the third thing.”  Barry: I basically take events and don’t change them that
much -- just enough to remind people of what’s funny about them.  Lundborg: Why is there so much scatological humor now?  Nude Nun  Zweibel: You mean there was a time it wasn’t like this?  Lundborg: During the time of Aristophanes and of
Shakespeare there was a lot, but in America not that long ago
you didn’t constantly come across all those diarrhea and vomit
gags.  Zweibel: We’re hearkening back to “Romeo, I just soiled
myself.”  Lundborg: Why is there no sex in your book?  Zweibel: There’s a little bit. My guy falls in love with a
naked nun.  Barry: My guy masturbates in a crate.  Lundborg: Is there anything that’s taboo?  Barry: You can’t write about religion, child molestation
and rape.  Zweibel: We’re doing Jihad material, and I was a little
sensitive to that -- at what point do we cross the line?  Barry: In case there’s any question, it was Alan Zweibel,
the Jew, whose idea it was to do the Jihad jokes.  Lundborg: The worst insult is to tell someone he has no
sense of humor. Why is that?  Barry: I think it’s not just a quirk if you have no sense
of humor. It’s actually a mental deficiency, maybe a mental
disorder.  Lundborg: Laughter is the antidote to suffering?  Barry: We’re the only animals that are aware the world is
dangerous and we’re going to die.  There are two reactions to that: one is religion -- “It’s
not really going to end” -- and the other is humor, where you
laugh because you have to relieve the anxiety and there’s no
other way to do it.  If you don’t have a sense a humor, your only option is to
be very religious.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 