-- Psychiatric Group Push to Redefine Mental Illness Sparks Revolt
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-01-24T14:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/mental-illness-guidelines-that-expand-diagnosis-sparks-health-care-revolt.html
An effort that promises to broaden
the definitions of mental illnesses is spurring a revolt among
health-care professionals in the U.S. and the U.K.  A panel appointed by the American Psychiatric Association
is proposing changes to the industry’s guide for mental
illnesses, which determines how patients are diagnosed and
treated, and whether insurers pay for care. The new edition of
 the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders  is
scheduled to be published next year.  The draft is sparking a backlash among practitioners
concerned the expanding mandate will increase the number of
patients treated with drugs. The guide would loosen diagnostic
criteria on some existing ailments and brand as mental disorders
some common behaviors, including having temper tantrums three
times a week or a lack of sexual arousal. The changes may spur
unneeded and dangerous treatment for the healthy, said Allen
Frances, a psychiatrist who helped write the  current guide .  “Everyday disappointments, sufferings and eccentricities
are being redefined as psychiatric disorders, and that could
lead to medication treatment,” said Frances, a professor
emeritus at  Duke University  who lives in  San Diego ,  California .
“This is expanding the boundaries of psychiatry.”  In many cases, family doctors will use the new definitions
to treat patients, Frances said by telephone. Pressure from
drugmakers to use medications can combine with media
representations to create “an epidemic,” he said. “Once
primary care doctors and patients have the idea that they saw a
certain condition on TV, it becomes real.”  ‘Medicalizing Normality’  Darrel Regier , the psychiatric group’s research director,
characterized critics as being unconvinced medical treatment is
better than counseling. The idea of “medicalizing normality
comes from a perspective that there are no psychiatric
disorders, and you need to avoid stigmatizing people by giving
them one,” he said in a telephone interview.  An Oct. 22  letter  critical of the changes, sponsored by
units of the American Psychological Association in  Washington ,
was signed by more than 10,800 people, including psychologists,
psychiatrists, counselors, and community activists. The British
Psychological Association, based in Leicester,  England , sent a
similar letter in June 2011.  The letters identify changes such as the one affecting
 ADHD , or Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, a long-
identified illness that involves hyperactive people who have
difficulty staying focused and controlling behavior, according
to the  National Institutes of Health  in Bethesda,  Maryland .  ADHD Changes  In the present manual, a diagnosis for ADHD requires six
symptoms to be identified in adults, including some present
before age 7. The new manual requires only four to be identified
and the disorder no longer must present itself in childhood.  The changes consider research findings that impairment
persists after age 18 as symptoms decline, basically allowing
lesser issues to be addressed, according to the  www.dsm5.org 
website set up by the Arlington, Virginia-based  Psychiatric
Association  to describe the update.  “The definitions of mental illness are becoming so porous,
they’re losing meaning,” Frances said. “You overtreat labeled
patients, and take resources away from the severely ill.”  The new guide also creates a malady it calls Sexual
Interest/Arousal Disorder in Women, though no field trials are
being done to support the diagnosis, according to the DSM5
website. This illness should be diagnosed when there is an
absence or reduced interest in sex and erotic fantasies tied to
distress, the proposal suggests.  Temper Outbursts  Disruptive Mood Dysregulation Disorder , also new, is listed
as being characterized by temper outbursts that occur at least
three times a week that are out of proportion to a provocation.
This disorder is being studied in trials, according to the site.  One in 5 Americans experienced some form of mental illness
this year, according to a report this month by the U.S.
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, using
the manual’s current criteria to develop the data.  According  to
the National Institutes of Mental Health, costs in this area
rose 63 percent to $57.5 billion in 2006 from a decade earlier.  Critics say those figures may rise quickly if the new
manual is approved as proposed.  “There’s no science that says heading off minor problems
will stop major ones, and it doesn’t take into account the
dangers from medications used to treat them,” said Donna
Rockwell, a clinical psychologist in Royal Oak,  Michigan , who
signed the letter. “Then what happens is shortages that affect
people that do need help.”  90 Experts  The manual is being revised by a panel of experts from 90
universities worldwide and the review process is expected to
cost about $25 million by the time it’s published in May 2013.
The panel has had extensive vetting for conflicts of interest,
said Regier, who is also vice chairman of the  task force 
proposing the new edition.  “We’re interested in making the correct diagnosis, and the
most scientifically based diagnosis based on all the information
we have from 20 years of research,” he said. “Our intent is
not to increase or decrease prevalence, but to make something
that is more accurate and scientifically based.”  The panel has  undertaken trials  involving many of the
changes at seven sites for disorders involving adults and four
locations for children, evaluating 150 to 300 patients at each
site from August 2010 to October 2011, Regier said. The results
of the trials will be reported at the psychiatric association
meeting in May, he said.  Two practitioners who hadn’t previously seen the patients
separately met with each person to evaluate whether they had a
disorder and if so, which one, he said.  ‘Expert Scientist Bias’  Frances, who has called for an independent review of the
new edition, said the panel proposing it has “expert scientist
bias. They’re worried about the missed patient, but they’re not
conscious -- or they are naive -- about how this is used in real
life and in clinical practice.”  The October letter and the June  criticism  by the British
Psychological Association, have a spirited exchange that
resulted this month in the critics calling for an independent
scientific review of the more controversial diagnosis changes.  “It really isn’t possible to identify what kind of outside
group would have the expertise and range of discipline and
disorders we’re covering to do that kind of outside review,”
Regier said by telephone. Still, he said the panel members are
interested in the criticisms of their proposals and “we’re not
taking them lightly.”  The revision should be “a living document,” he said.
“That’s so we can convene expert panels more frequently in the
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 