-- Hepatitis C Pill Makes BioLineRx Buyout Target: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-01-25T08:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/hepatitis-c-pill-race-makes-biolinerx-a-buyout-target-israel-overnight.html
BioLineRx Ltd. (.BLRXARB)  surged in  New York 
trading, widening the premium versus its  Tel Aviv  shares to a
record, on bets the biopharmaceutical company will be acquired
following its licensing agreement for a hepatitis C treatment.  BioLineRx’s American depositary receipts jumped 69 percent
on the Nasdaq Stock Market yesterday, swelling the premium to
the Israeli stock to  28 percent . The Tel Aviv shares soared 25
percent at 10:28 a.m. in Tel Aviv today. The  Bloomberg Israel-US
25 Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest Israeli companies traded in New York
rose 0.1 percent to 92.53.  Check Point Software Technologies
Ltd. (CHKP)  led gains after Topeka Capital Markets Inc. recommended
buying shares of the maker of network security equipment.  BioLineRx’s agreement with French company Genoscience to
develop and sell a hepatitis C pill treatment boosts the odds
that the Jerusalem-based company will be bought, according to
Morgan Joseph TriArtisan Group.  Bristol-Myers (BMY)  Squibb Co. and
 Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  announced $13.3 billion of acquisitions in
the past two months to buy developers of hepatitis treatments.  “The fact that BioLineRx now has a highly novel hepatitis
C drug in its armory should make the company an appealing target
for strategic partners,” Raghuram Selvaraju, a New York-based
equity analyst at Morgan Joseph TriArtisan, said by e-mail
yesterday. “The hepatitis C viral infection space is an area
that has been particularly hot recently.”  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index has gained 10 percent this
year, outperforming the  Nasdaq Composite Index’s (CCMP)  7 percent
advance and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 4.5 percent
increase. A 14 percent jump in  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, has helped
pushed the Israel-US 25 higher. The TA-25 stock index rose 0.3
percent to 1,126.06 today.  BioLineRx ‘Euphoria’  Bristol-Myers, a biopharmaceutical company based in New
York, said on Jan. 7 it would pay about $2.5 billion in cash to
buy  Inhibitex Inc. (INHX) , which is developing an oral drug  called
INX-189 for treating hepatitis C.  Pharmasset Inc. (VRUS) , based in
Princeton, New Jersey, agreed to be acquired by Gilead Sciences
for $10.8 billion in a deal announced on Nov. 21.  Gilead, the world’s largest maker of HIV drugs, offered the
highest premium on record for a drug takeover of comparable
size, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As many as 170 million people worldwide carry the  hepatitis
C virus , a blood-borne disease that can lead to liver cirrhosis
and cancer, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta. The market for medicines to treat the
disease is about $3 billion worldwide, said  Andrew Berens , a
senior health-care analyst with Bloomberg Industries.  “The euphoria you’re seeing is mostly related to the fact
that the announcement makes the company an acquisition target,”
Berens said in a phone interview from Skillman,  New Jersey . “An
oral drug is what everyone is trying to develop because the
current injection treatments are toxic and cumbersome.”  Volumes Surge  BioLineRx’s ADRs rose to $5.55 yesterday after the shares
in Tel Aviv climbed 37 percent to 1.65 shekels, or the
equivalent of 44 cents. One ADR represents 10 shares. The Tel
Aviv shares rose to 2.06 shekels, or 55 cents, today.  Phone messages and e-mails sent to Garth Russell, a
spokesman for BioLineRx from an external public-relations
company, seeking comments on a potential buyout weren’t
returned.  Trading volumes on the stock soared yesterday, with more
than 6 million BioLineRx ADRs exchanging hands, compared with an
average of 7,000 trades a day, according to Bank of New York
Mellon Corp.  The Israeli biopharmaceutical company, whose largest
shareholder is  Teva (BLRX) , listed the ADRs on the Nasdaq Stock Market
on July 25.  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China . The nation
is also home to the largest number of startup companies per
capita in the world.  Venture Capital  Israeli technology companies raised $2.14 billion in 2011,
70 percent more than in 2010, according to the IVC-KPMG
Quarterly Survey e-mailed yesterday.  Check Point, the world’s second-largest maker of network
security equipment, climbed 1.2 percent to $56.52 in New York,
the highest closing price since Nov. 16.  Shares will probably gain 38 percent to $78 in the next 12
months, Frederick Ziegel, an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets,
wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday where he rated the company
a “buy” in initial coverage.  EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH) , a maker of network processors
that counts U.S. Internet infrastructure company  Juniper
Networks Inc. (JNPR)  as a customer, gained 3.5 percent to $34.02,
swelling the premium versus its Tel Aviv shares to $1.48, the
widest among the dually-listed companies. EZchip climbed 5.4
percent to 129.60 shekels, or $34.32, today.  Bottomed Out  The  Philadelphia Semiconductor Index (SOX) , which investors use
to track chip industry performance, added 0.4 percent yesterday,
extending this year’s gain to 14 percent.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the world’s largest maker of analog
chips, said on Jan. 24 that fourth-quarter sales and profit
declined less than analysts had predicted, signaling to
brokerage Benchmark Co. that the market for electronic
components has bottomed out.  “The chipmakers group seems to be on an upper inflection
point,” Gary Mobley, an analyst at Benchmark, said by phone
from New York yesterday. “Companies are talking about an end of
inventory depletion and see increases in bookings.”  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , the largest U.S. maker of generic over-the-
counter drugs, fell 2.1 percent in the U.S. to $97.54 yesterday
after its shares in Tel Aviv gained 0.3 percent to 373.50
shekels, or the equivalent of $98.65. The $1.11 discount was the
biggest among dually-listed companies. The Tel Aviv shares
dropped 0.8 percent to 370.50 shekels, or $98.12, today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  