-- Merkel Masters Markets With Euro Austerity Mollifying Investors
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-01-25T11:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/merkel-masters-markets-with-euro-austerity-mollifying-investors.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has
declared a truce in her campaign to master financial markets.  Merkel, who began the euro crisis seeing politicians and
investors locked in a battle for supremacy, is now using
markets’ judgments to support her calls for austerity to rescue
the single currency. At the same time, she backed off from her
demand that bondholders contribute to bailouts.  The shift underscores Merkel’s journey from scientist to
dominant crisis manager amid unprecedented economic and
financial turmoil that has thrust her to the fore of Europe’s
policy response. Delivering the opening speech today at the
World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland,
she’ll be addressing critics who say her conversion may be too
late to stop woes from splintering the 17-nation euro.  “She’s starting a little bit to employ and massage
markets, as a politician should do,”  Holger Schmieding , chief
economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co in  London , said in an
interview. “You cannot control markets, but you can work with
the markets and harness the power of markets your way if you do
it well.”  Merkel is scheduled to make her speech at 5:25 p.m. local
time.  Euro Rally  Merkel’s convergence with the European Central Bank and her
attempt to bury the hatchet with financial markets came as
concerns of an imminent euro break-up ease. The euro had its
biggest rally since October against the dollar last week. Spain
and France sold bonds at lower yields on Jan. 19, the latest
debt auctions this year to signal an easing of the crisis, at
least for now.  German business confidence jumped more than economists
forecast in January to a five-month high, according to the
Munich-based Ifo institute’s business climate index published
today. Germany’s  DAX index (DAX)  of 30 stocks has gained 8.6 percent
this year compared with a 4.3 percent increase for the Stoxx
Europe 600.  Domestically, 91 percent of Germans back Merkel’s push to
impose tougher enforcement of debt and deficit limits, according
to an FG Wahlen poll for ZDF television last month. The poll
also showed Merkel recapturing the spot as Germany’s most
popular politician for the first time since April 2010, before
Greece received the euro area’s first bailout. Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union remains the top rated party 18 months
before elections that are likely to be a referendum on her
handling of the debt crisis.  ‘Sunny Heights’  “The chancellor is back at sunny heights,”  Gerd Langguth ,
a Bonn University political scientist and Merkel biographer,
said Jan. 13 on Deutschlandfunk radio. “She’s refusing to get
excited, which seems the right thing to do,” he said in a
subsequent telephone interview.  A physicist who grew up in communist East Germany, Merkel,
57, has said she’s no economic expert. Some analysts say that
handicap in  Europe ’s leading politician has set back efforts to
combat the crisis.  Investors have repeatedly expected Merkel and fellow
leaders “to act comprehensively and with speed and they’ve done
neither,”  Gerard Lyons , chief economist at  Standard Chartered 
and a Davos delegate, said in an interview. “Fundamentally the
euro can’t survive in its current format.”  Greek Contagion  Contagion from Greece has buffeted Spain, Italy and France,
the euro region’s three biggest economies after Germany.
Greece’s debt woes required a second bailout that can’t proceed
until there’s agreement with bondholders on a 50 percent debt
writedown.  Merkel has learned along the way. She and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy last month reversed a year of policy and dropped
the idea of requiring private-investor losses under the European
Union’s permanent rescue fund, which investors, economists and
European officials blamed for worsening the market turmoil in
2011.  Requiring bondholder losses “had a very negative effect on
debt markets,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said Dec. 9 after
the last summit. Merkel also signaled that her push to make
investors accept losses on Greek sovereign bonds won’t be
repeated in other euro countries.  The previous month, as Italian yields topped the 7 percent
level that triggered bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal,
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  quit and was replaced by  Mario Monti , a former economics professor. On Nov. 24, after meeting
with Monti and Sarkozy in Strasbourg,  France , Merkel reminded
them that ignoring spreads would be a mistake because they
indicate “where work needs to be done and where you have to
keep pressing ahead.”  Merkel’s ‘Battle’  That contrasts with the antagonism she expressed 12 months
earlier. “It is true that there is a kind of battle over what
power the financial markets have and how much room for policy
making the politicians have,” she said in a Nov. 18, 2010,
speech. At stake is “what we call the primacy of politics.”  As Merkel’s approach has shifted, the faces surrounding her
at EU summits and in the glass-and-concrete chancellery in
Berlin have changed too. Lars-Hendrik Roeller, who studied
economics at the University of Pennsylvania, worked at the EU in
Brussels and ran a business school in Berlin, joined as chief
economic adviser in July.  Roeller replaced Jens Weidmann, whom Merkel sent to head
Germany’s Bundesbank. Joerg Asmussen, a former deputy German
finance minister who advised Merkel during EU summits, joined
Weidmann on the  European Central Bank ’s executive board this
month.  German Reach  Thrust into the role of Europe’s indispensable leader by
the debt crisis, Merkel is increasingly extending the reach of
German policies across the continent as other euro nations fall
behind.  Sarkozy, who met Merkel so often last year that the leaders
of Europe’s No. 1 and No. 2 economies were dubbed “Merkozy” by
the media, praised German efforts to cut labor costs, saying
Jan. 9 in Berlin that German  industrial policy  “is
unquestionably an example.” Sarkozy has suggested a sales-tax
hike emulating Germany even as he lags in polls before France’s
presidential election in April.  Monti meanwhile said his ideal is “an Italy that resembles
Germany as much as possible,” according to a Jan. 11 interview
with the Die Welt newspaper.  S&P Downgrades  As political leaders in France and Austria bemoaned the
Standard & Poor’s decision to strip them of their top credit
rating among nine euro states downgraded on Jan. 13, Merkel said
the decision “confirms my conviction” that austerity is
needed. Germany is now the only euro country with a stable AAA
credit rating at S&P.  Enlisting markets to help make her case for EU-wide budget
discipline is a change for Merkel, who said as recently as Aug.
21 that politicians have to be “unassailable” and can’t let
investors force their hand.  She’s also giving markets a human face, saying in a radio
interview broadcast Jan. 15 that they “ultimately consist of
investors, some of whom manage the life-insurance policies of
totally normal people.” Those investors “wonder, ‘Is putting
my money in Europe a good investment?’”  Merkel says it’s not about Germany trying to dominate
Europe. Rather, she says, the EU can only thrive in the global
competition with emerging powers such as China and Brazil if
governments cut debt and strive to become as competitive as
Germany, the world’s No. 2 exporter after China.  Stiglitz View  Facing down calls by economists including Nobel laureate
Joseph Stiglitz and politicians such as Irish Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  to support joint euro-area bonds and let the ECB
aid debt-strapped governments plays well for Merkel at home. It
didn’t stop her being ranked the world’s most powerful woman by
Forbes magazine in 2011, reclaiming the top spot after a one-
year hiatus.  Underscoring Germany’s dominance, leaders from Monti and
Sarkozy to Bulgarian Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  traveled to
Berlin this month to endorse a European agreement on tougher
rules for debt reduction, a policy adopted at a summit last
month. Including Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who is
due in Berlin tomorrow, six of the euro-area’s 17 leaders will
have traveled to the court of Merkel in the past two weeks.
International Monetary Fund head  Christine Lagarde , Van Rompuy
and EU Commission President Jose Barroso also paid visits.  IMF Resources  Lagarde, who is seeking $500 billion in additional IMF
lending resources as she deploys the fund to help fight Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis, prodded Merkel to contribute more to a
“firewall” and to support joint euro-area bonds.  “What we must all understand is that this is a defining
moment,” Lagarde, a former French finance minister, said in a
Jan. 23 speech in Berlin. “It is not about saving any one
country or region. It is about saving the world from a downward
economic spiral.”  For all its popularity at home, Merkel’s rejection of what
she calls “Anglo-Saxon” solutions to the debt crisis carries
global risks. Monti has warned that the economic squeeze of
austerity may lead to street protests in Italy. EU leaders are
seeking to address the threat of unrest by making growth and
jobs the official topic of their next summit on Jan. 30.  Spending cuts won’t solve the euro’s problems “and Germany
is making it all a lot worse,” Charles Grant, director of the
London-based Centre for European Reform, said in an interview.
“If Germany doesn’t change its mind, the currency won’t
survive. Merkel has lacked the courage to be a leader, someone
who changes the way people think and takes risks.”  Sarkozy Prodding  At their Nov. 24 meeting in Strasbourg, Merkel won over
Sarkozy to stop prodding the ECB to expand its support of debt-
strapped governments, easing political pressure on the central
bank.  Within a month, the ECB offered the region’s banks a record
489 billion euros ($637 billion) in three-year loans so they can
keep lending. With Europe hamstrung by Germany’s historic fear
of inflation, the loans are quantitative easing “through the
backdoor,”  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank of
New York Mellon Corp., said on Dec. 21.  Merkel has meanwhile persuaded EU governments to return to
her agenda by tightening draft rules on budget deficits after
the ECB warned against backsliding as the fiscal pact risked
being watered down. That allows bank president,  Mario Draghi , to
keep on providing banks with “enormous amounts of liquidity,”
said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels.  ‘Incarnation of Pragmatism’  “Merkel is finally getting what she wants in Europe,”
Brzeski said by phone. As a result, “the euro bonds story is
not off the table” and Merkel may end her opposition to joint
debt “at the very end of the trip” to fiscal discipline in the
region. “We know her: She’s the incarnation of pragmatism.”  As she battles the crisis that she has said poses one of
the greatest risks to European unity since World War II, Merkel
continues to signal that European partners shouldn’t look to
Germany to share more of its prosperity, which would amount to
the European “transfer union” that her coalition opposes.  “I’m still looking for what more we should do,” she told
reporters on Jan. 18 “When I have figured that out, I will tell
you what it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  