-- Erste, RZB May Need Less EBA Capital as Austria Backs Banks
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-01-24T16:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/erste-rzb-may-have-to-raise-less-capital-as-fma-backs-inclusion.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Oesterreich AG (RZBOPA)  may have to raise less capital to
meet requirements by the European Banking Authority as their
home regulator backed their demand to recognize hybrids.  Austria ’s Finanzmarktaufsicht regulator will argue the EBA
should recognize non-voting capital that the Austrian lenders
sold to private investors in 2009 in a combined deal together
with state aid, the FMA’s two co-heads, Helmut Ettl and Kurt Pribil, said in Vienna today. The final decision about the
capital recognition is up to the EBA, they said.  “We have always said that it makes sense to include that
in the overall calculation,” Ettl told journalists. “There
will be further discussions about that on the EBA level in the
coming days” about “controversial capital instruments” and
“borderline cases,” Ettl said.  “We will make our case and
present our arguments.”  The EBA told banks in October to increase their core
reserves to 9 percent of risk-weighted assets by the end of June
as part of measures introduced to respond to the euro area’s
fiscal woes. It excluded hybrid capital from the core reserves
definition, counting them only if provided in state aid measures
since 2008. European Central Bank policy makers including
Austria’s Ewald Nowotny and Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch have joined
banking lobby groups in saying that those  capital requirements 
may curb economic growth in the euro area.  Dilution Threat  RZB, the majority owner of listed  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , sold 750 million euros ($976 million) of so-
called participation capital to private investors along with
1.75 billion euros it got from the state in 2009. After an
internal revamp, 500 million euros of that was disqualified by
the EBA when it found a 2.1 billion-euro shortfall at RZB on
Dec. 8.  Raiffeisen considered swapping the participation capital
into contingent convertible bonds because exchanging it into
common shares may dilute shareholders, RZB Chief Executive
Officer Walter Rothensteiner said Dec. 21.  Erste sold 540 million euros to private investors in 2009
as part of an agreement in which it also got 1.2 billion euros
of state aid. That capital was disqualified by the EBA when it
determined a 743 million-euro shortfall at Erste. Erste plans to
fill the gap by retaining earnings and reducing assets outside
of the central and eastern European region it regards as its
core geography, it said Dec. 9.  Shares Decline  Raiffeisen and Erste fell as European banks retreated.
Raiffeisen dropped 3.1 percent to 23 euros in Vienna. Erste
declined 5.7 percent to 15.95 euros.  Ettl and Pribil said they would argue for including the
capital because it was issued under the same terms as the state
aid that is recognized by EBA.  “There was one prospectus, it was one issuance, there was
a close link” between the state and the private portion of the
capital, Ettl said. At the time, that was done to fulfill
requirements by the European Commission. “The industry has a
point” when arguing for the inclusion, he said.  The FMA won’t suggest that other hybrid capital instruments
be counted toward the EBA’s requirement, Ettl said. RZB has sold
more than 800 million euros in participation capital outside of
the state-aid deal.  Impact on Economy  Ettl, a member of the EBA’s 29-strong board of supervisors,
said the body will “evaluate” its entire recapitalization
exercise in the coming days together with bodies including the
European Systemic Risk Board, whose chairman is ECB President
 Mario Draghi . The review will focus on whether the measure
reduces the availability of credit for the European economy to a
degree where it crimps growth.  “There will be a check whether the exercise leads to
outsized deleveraging, which may cause economic problems in
 Europe ,” Ettl said. EBA’s board of supervisors will then
discuss on Feb. 8 “whether the exercise is all right or whether
there needs to be amendments,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  