-- MetLife, Prudential Accused of Fraud in Illinois Suit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-01-25T04:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/metlife-prudential-accused-of-fraud-in-illinois-suit-correct-.html
MetLife Inc. and  Prudential
Financial Inc. (PRU)  were accused of “massive fraud” in a whistle-
blower lawsuit filed in  Illinois  alleging they failed to turn
over unclaimed life insurance funds to the state.  Total Asset Recovery Services LLC, an Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based company that researches unclaimed funds held by
state treasurers on behalf of individuals, said in a complaint
that the insurers didn’t turn over money from 4,766 unclaimed
life insurance policies held by people that they knew or should
have known were deceased.  Life insurance funds not claimed for more than five years
after they are payable under the terms of the policy are deemed
abandoned and become state property under Illinois law, lawyers
for the company said in a complaint unsealed in state court in
 Chicago  today. When MetLife and Prudential converted from mutual
life insurers to public companies in 1999 and 2000, they mailed
policyholders a share of profits they had accumulated, though
some were undeliverable and returned, the lawyers said.  Using various databases, the company found that unclaimed
funds from policyholders who died from 1982 to 2004 weren’t
turned over to the state, the lawyers said. They estimated that
the amount of the funds may exceed $524 million.  Insurers’ Liability  Insurers could be liable for as much as $26 million in
penalties to Illinois and damages worth triple the amount of
funds that were withheld, according to the lawsuit. Total Asset
Recovery seeks 15 percent to 30 percent of the damages or
settlement amount. The lawsuit claims violations of Illinois’
False Claims Whistleblower Reward and Protection Act, which
allows people who disclose fraud against the state to share in
the proceeds from the lawsuit.  Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential, said the estimate used in the complaint to calculate
the value of unclaimed funds “is grossly exaggerated.” He
declined to further comment.  John Calagna , a spokesman for New York-based MetLife, said
in an e-mail that the figures in the complaint were based on
“unreliable assumptions and wildly overstated insurance
amounts.”  The case is Total Asset Recovery Services Inc. v.  MetLife
Inc. (MET) , 2011L001225, Circuit Court of Cook County (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  