-- IIF’s Dallara ‘Hopeful’ of Finding Common Ground on Greece
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-01-24T15:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/eu-calls-for-more-bondholder-concessions-as-greece-seen-going-off-track-.html
Charles Dallara , managing director
of the  Institute of International Finance , said he’s hopeful of
finding “common ground” on a Greek debt swap as European
finance ministers pushed for greater concessions from the
country’s private creditors.  “We put an offer on the table and it remains on the
table,” Dallara, who’s negotiating with Greece on behalf of
private bondholders, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today. “All parties need to contribute to the solution. We are
wiping off the face of the earth 100 billion euros ($130
billion) of claims against Greece.”  European finance ministers meeting in Brussels signaled
they would push Greece’s private investors to accept bigger
losses after Dallara made what he described as the bondholders’
“maximum” offer. Euro area governments are seeking to fill a
deeper-than-expected hole in Greece’s finances by saddling
investors with a lower  interest rate  on exchanged bonds, setting
up a confrontation before a European Union summit on Jan. 30.  Brinkmanship over Greece clouded progress toward new fiscal
rules and a beefed-up rescue fund, posing a potential setback to
the start-of-year rally in stocks, bonds and the euro. A
Bloomberg index of European  financial shares  posted its biggest
decline in two weeks.  More to Do  “Obviously Greece and the banks have to do more in order
to reach a sustainable debt level,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told reporters in Brussels before the final
session of a two-day meeting of European ministers.  European officials and the nation’s private bondholders
agreed in October to implement a 50 percent cut in the face
value of more than 200 billion euros of Greek debt by
voluntarily exchanging outstanding bonds for new securities,
with a goal of reducing  Greece ’s borrowings to 120 percent of
gross domestic product by 2020. The accord is key to a second
financing package for the cash-strapped country, which faces a
14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  The latest proposal from the IIF would lead to a loss of
about 69 percent on the net-present value of Greek bonds, two
people with knowledge of the talks said. Under the proposal, the
new 30-year bonds would carry a coupon of about 4.25 percent,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private.  Finance chiefs are pushing for coupons below 3.5 percent
for debt to be serviced until 2020 and below 4 percent over the
30 years of the next Greek package.  Paris Meeting  Dallara said he would consult with Greece’s creditors in a
meeting in Paris tomorrow “to see what their thinking is.” He
and  Jean Lemierre , a special adviser to the chairman of  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA, are leading talks for the bondholders.  There’s a lot riding on resolving the crisis cooperatively,
Dallara said at a press conference in Zurich, adding that he
hasn’t yet received a “formal” response from official parties
to the bondholders’ latest offer.  Private investors hold only about 60 percent of Greek debt,
and all parties, public and private, need to contribute to
reducing Greece’s debt, Dallara said. The  European Central Bank 
has said it won’t participate in the debt swap.  “It is important for all parties to recognize how much we
all have at stake here and work together and co-operatively to
find a solution,” Dallara told reporters. “Some might minimize
the risk of an involuntary debt exchange and point to other
cases such as  Argentina . I would caution against that
attitude.”  ‘Psychological Impact’  The difference between the losses bondholders have offered
and those mentioned by EU finance chiefs “comes down to 10
billion or 20 billion euros” over the life of the new bonds,
said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels.  “This is just nothing compared to the psychological impact
you would get on Spanish or Italian yields if Greece were to go
bust,” Brzeski said in an interview today. “They’re going to
find a deal,” he said on Bloomberg Television.  The contribution of euro governments and the  International
Monetary Fund  to the package will stay at 130 billion euros as
pledged in October.  “It’s obvious that the Greek program is off track,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters
after chairing last night’s meeting of ministers from the 17
euro countries.  The stalemate is reminiscent of October’s bargaining over
bond losses and threatens to spill into next week’s leaders’
summit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Zurich at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  