-- EU Ministers Get Deal on Clearing Rules for OTC Derivatives
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-01-24T14:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/eu-ministers-get-deal-on-clearing-rules-for-otc-derivatives-1-.html
European Union finance ministers
reached a deal to resolve a split on regulators’ powers over
clearinghouses that handle over-the-counter derivatives.  The ministers, meeting in Brussels today, struck an accord
on when supervisors in the region can override national
decisions to authorize clearing firms.  The clash had threatened progress toward the region’s
implementation of an international accord to toughen rules for
trading and clearing of OTC derivatives. The Financial Stability
Board warned last year that nations may miss an end-2012
deadline for applying the measures, and that there were signs
that the rules were being applied in an inconsistent way.  “Now we have a delicate compromise but the fine thing is
that we all agree on it,” Margrethe Vestager,  Denmark ’s economy
minister, said at the close of the debate. Denmark holds the
EU’s rotating presidency.  The U.K. government has sought to limit the override
powers, warning that they could be used to pressure U.K.-based
clearing firms to move part of their business to the euro area.
Allowing national decisions to be overturned shouldn’t set the
precedent for future EU financial laws, according to the deal.  Under the compromise deal, regulators would be able to
block a national decision to authorize a clearinghouse if they
get a two-thirds majority with other supervisors, according to a
text of the EU accord given to reporters after the discussions.
A final ruling would then be made by the European Securities and
Markets Authority.  British Lawsuit  The U.K. has sued the  European Central Bank  over its plans
to prevent trades in some euro-denominated securities from being
cleared outside the 17 countries that share the currency. The
ECB has said that being based within the euro region should
be a condition for receiving emergency funding from the central
bank.  Britain has also sought to thwart the ECB stance by seeking
safeguards in the draft derivatives legislation.  ESMA’s final decisions on whether a clearinghouse should be
authorized will be based on whether the company meets minimum
standards in the draft law on financing and other safeguards to
protect it from collapse, the document says.  Ministers also agreed to limit the number of authorities
from each EU nation that could take part in votes to block
decisions authorizing clearinghouses.  Parliament Negotiations  The draft law must be voted on by the European Parliament
and approved by EU nations before it can enter into force.  Today’s deal should spur an accord on the law at the
next negotiation meeting between governments and lawmakers,
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said.  “I’m hopeful we will have an agreement,” Barnier told
reporters after the meeting. “Clearinghouses will be the new
institutions which will be too big to fail, and so there will be
systemic risks involved.”  The negotiations have been provisionally scheduled for Jan.
31, said  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for Barnier.  Today’s agreement shouldn’t be watered down in negotiations
with lawmakers, said  George Osborne , the UK’s finance minister.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 