-- EU’s Rehn Says Spain Must Meet Budget Goal as Economy Slumps
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2012-01-24T19:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/eu-s-rehn-says-spain-must-meet-budget-goal-as-economy-slumps-2-.html
Spain  must meet its 2012 deficit
goal, European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said, rejecting calls from Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro to ease the target as the economy shrinks.  Montoro urged the EU on Jan. 22 to review the 4.4 percent
goal, which was set by the previous government amid forecasts of
economic growth. The gap amounted to 8 percent of gross domestic
product last year, more than the last administration’s 6 percent
target, as the economy slipped back toward a  recession .  “It is essential to meet the fiscal targets for 2012,”
Rehn told reporters today in Brussels. “I’m aware of the
regrettable news that the fiscal deficit in Spain seems to be
significantly higher” than the target.  While Montoro called for the goal to be eased to take the
shrinking economy into account, Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told reporters in Brussels that his government would
stick to it. The Bank of Spain estimated yesterday that Spain’s
economy will shrink 1.5 percent if the government succeeds in
cutting the  deficit  by almost half this year.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  signaled today the EU may
revise the budget goals for the whole region because of weaker
growth forecasts, even as he pledged to work toward the existing
target for as long as it remains in place.  EU Goals  “That remains to be seen,” he told reporters in Lisbon
when asked whether the EU may revise the goals.  “But Spain is going to meet the targets in its stability
program, have no doubt: today that is 4.4 percent and today,
Spain will meet that target,” he said.  The People’s Party government, in power since Dec. 21,
announced 15 billion euros ($19 billion) of budget cuts at its
second Cabinet meeting on Dec. 30 and Rajoy said more spending
cuts will follow when it presents the 2012 budget at the end of
March. The PP faces a regional election in the southern region
of Andalusia, a traditional Socialist stronghold, on March 25.  “The Spanish government has taken prompt action to address
slippages,” Rehn said, even as a “fiscal gap” persists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  