-- Stocks in Europe Drop as Greek Debt Talks Reach Impasse; French Banks Fall
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-01-24T17:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/europe-stock-futures-fall-on-greek-debt-impasse.html
European (SXXP)  stocks declined from a
five-month high as the region’s finance ministers failed to
agree on a debt-swap deal for Greece and called for a greater
contribution from bondholders.  Banks tumbled. Societe Generale SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
retreated at least 4.1 percent after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
banks’ credit ratings.  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest engineering
company, dropped 1.2 percent after saying that achieving its
goals for the year has become harder. Petroplus Holdings AG
plunged to its lowest price ever after planning to file for
insolvency.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.4 percent to 256.04 at
the close in  London . The gauge has still risen 4.7 percent so
far this year as reports added to optimism that the global
economy is strengthening.  “It seems as if we are far from an agreement,” said Yves Maillot, the Paris-based head of investments at Robeco Gestions
SA, which oversees $6.8 billion. “The problem of solvency of
countries remains, along with the question of  Greece . The market
situation is fragile. Market sentiment has been more positive
recently, with investors factoring in the  European Central
Bank ’s easing for banks.”  The region’s finance ministers, meeting in Brussels
yesterday, balked at putting up more public money for Greece,
calling on bondholders to provide greater debt relief in order
to point the way out of the two-year-old debt crisis.  Aid Package  Euro-area governments stood by an October offer of 130
billion euros ($170 billion) for a second Greek aid package.
Officials want to fill a deeper-than-expected hole in the
nation’s finances by saddling investors with a lower  interest
rate  on exchanged bonds.  Meanwhile, Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said
the Greek government intends to wrap up debt-swap talks with
private investors by Feb. 1.  A report today showed that a combined measure of  European (SXXP) 
services and manufacturing output unexpectedly expanded in
January, led by Germany, the region’s largest economy.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries jumped to 50.4, a five-month high,
from 48.3 in December, London-based Markit Economics said in an
initial estimate today. Economists forecast a reading of 48.5,
according to the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction.  National benchmark indexes fell in 14 of the 18 western
European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 lost 0.5 percent, as did the
U.K.’s FTSE 100. Germany’s DAX retreated 0.3 percent.  Bank Shares  A gauge of banking shares fell 1 percent.  Societe Generale (GLE) 
retreated 5.4 percent to 21.57 euros.  Credit Agricole  lost 4.1
percent to 5 euros.  Societe Generale, France’s second-largest lender, and
Credit Agricole had their ratings downgraded to A from A+, with
a stable outlook, S&P said yesterday.  “The downgrade of some of these banks follows the
downgrade of France,” S&P wrote.  Siemens declined 1.3 percent to 77.39 euros. The company
said achieving its full-year  goals  has become harder to reach
after profitability at its four divisions slipped as the debt
crisis weighs on the economy.  Net income from continuing operations in the fiscal first
quarter fell 27 percent to 1.36 billion euros ($1.77 billion),
the company said. That missed the average estimate of 1.47
billion euros in a Bloomberg survey of analysts. New orders also
dropped, Siemens said.  Petroplus Insolvency  Petroplus sank 84 percent to 24 centimes, its biggest
decline and the lowest price since it issued shares to the
public in November 2006. The company said it plans to file for
insolvency in Switzerland and other jurisdictions. The Swiss
refiner that has been trying to avoid bankruptcy had about $1
billion in credit lines suspended last month, preventing it from
supplying its plants with crude.  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the biggest Dutch telephone company, fell 7.2
percent to 7.93 euros. The company said 2012 profit and  cash
flow  will be lower. The company reported fourth-quarter earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization of 1.32
billion euros, compared with the average analyst estimate of
1.36 billion euros. The company also said there will be no share
buyback in 2012.  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  slid 5.8 percent to 5.30 euros.
Europe’s largest semiconductor maker predicted that first-
quarter revenue will fall as much as 10 percent from the
previous three months because of lower sales at its wireless
business.  Worst Performance  Chemring Group Plc (CHG)  tumbled 14 percent to 386.5 pence for
its biggest drop in two months and the worst performance today
in the Stoxx 600. The maker of missile avoidance systems for
fighter jets reported a 30 percent decline in full-year pretax
profit to 90.8 million pounds. Analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
cut their 2012 earnings-per-share estimate for the company by 15
percent to 54.3 pence, citing a “more cautious” outlook for
growth and margins.  SBM Offshore NV (SBMO) , the world’s biggest supplier of floating
oil-and-gas platforms, declined 12 percent to 13.10 euros, the
most since November 2008, after saying its Yme project in Norway
faces “increased challenges,” and that its chief financial
officer will step down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 