-- Europe Progressing in Debt Crisis, Investors and Economists Say
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-01-24T19:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/europe-progressing-in-debt-crisis-investors-and-economists-say.html
Europe  is making progress toward
resolving its debt crisis and investor confidence is returning,
said panelists at the Bloomberg Sovereign Debt Crisis
Conference.  The  European Central Bank ’s unlimited three-year loans to
financial institutions are helping push the region toward a
solution,  Erik Nielsen , global chief economist at UniCredit SpA,
said today at the conference, hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in New
York.  “We have turned the corner,” Nielsen said. ECB policy
makers are “doing what they have to do” by providing
additional funding.  Italian and Spanish government bonds have rallied since ECB
President Mario Draghi said last month that policy makers would
lend banks as much money as they needed for three years in
tenders held in December and February.  “ Mario Draghi  has really hit a home run” in helping the
economy,  John Taylor , the founder and chairman of New York-based
FX Concepts LLC, said at the conference. Because of the loans,
“I would expect the euro to weaken for no other reason than the
fact there are so many euros out there,” he said. The euro may
drop to parity with the dollar by year end, Taylor said.  Nielsen forecasts the euro will trade at $1.20, while
 Julian Callow , head of international economics at  Barclays
Capital , said it will be worth $1.15. The currency recovered
from a 0.5 percent decline to trade little changed at $1.3023 at
2:09 p.m. in  New York , near its highest level of the year.  Investor Confidence  ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said
there are signs investor confidence in the euro-area economy is
returning and growth may be about to rebound.  “My impression is that, since December, the  market
psychology  has begun to change,” Gonzalez-Paramo said. “Pieces
are falling into place, not just for a single country but for
the euro zone as a whole.”  European services and factory output strengthened in
January, led by Germany, survey data showed today. While the
 International Monetary Fund  today cut its forecast for global
economic growth and forecast a recession in the euro area,
Gonzalez-Paramo said the region may escape that fate.  There are “good indications” coming “from the real
economy suggesting the slowdown is just temporary,” while the
ECB’s three-year loans are providing comfort to the banking
system, he said. “It’s more likely than not that we will see a
rebound in 2012” and “it is not even sure that we will have a
recession in the end.”  Monetary Policy   Signs of resilience in the economy have given the ECB room
to pause monetary-policy action and assess the effect of its
measures to date, which include cutting its benchmark  interest
rate  to a record low of 1 percent, ongoing government-bond
purchases and the unlimited lending to banks.  The IMF today lowered its estimate for global growth this
year to 3.3 percent from a September forecast of 4 percent. The
expansion next year will be 3.9 percent, down from 4.5 percent.
The euro area may enter a “mild recession” in 2012 as it
shrinks 0.5 percent. The U.S. growth outlook was unchanged at
1.8 percent, the IMF said.  Gonzalez-Paramo said the record 489 billion-euro ($636
billion) adoption of the ECB’s first three-year loan in December
bodes well for demand at the next offering in February.  “The big take-up in December took away the stigma effect;
we had more than 500 institutions bidding,” he said. “So now
there is no stigma, so that should promote more bidding.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  