-- Europe Has ‘Many Missed Opportunities,’ Deutsche Boerse CEO Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-01-24T18:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/europe-has-many-missed-opportunities-deutsche-boerse-ceo-says.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s Chief Executive
Officer  Reto Francioni  said “ Europe  has too many missed
opportunities” and the region is “suffering the consequences
of these errors,” as regulators prepare to block his planned
takeover of  NYSE Euronext (NRX) .  “Too many times in the past decades, one-sided perceptions
of  capital markets  have prevailed in which the international
dimension was ignored, and we’re still suffering the
consequences of these errors,” Francioni said at the Frankfurt
exchange operator’s annual new year reception today. “Europe
has too many missed opportunities to show. I only have to
mention the failure to create a European rating firm, something
so vital, or the failure to stem unregulated off-market trading
as examples of this.”  The exchanges are in the final week of fighting for their
deal with the European Commission, the European Union’s
executive arm, which is scheduled to decide Feb. 1. The
commission told the two companies that they plan to block the
deal to create the world’s largest exchange because it would
monopolize derivatives trading in the region, according to two
people familiar with the draft decision in December.  Deutsche Boerse ’s attempt to merge with NYSE contributes to
work “to boost Europe’s weight in the future order of the
global financial system,” Francioni said, adding he’s awaiting
the decision from Brussels “shortly.”  Significant Opposition  The exchanges are unlikely to garner sufficient support
from EU commissioners to overturn a looming veto over their plan
to create the world’s largest exchange, according to four people
familiar with the situation. The EU’s antitrust chief,  Joaquin Almunia , won’t face significant opposition from other EU
commissioners to his proposal to block the deal at a Feb. 1
meeting, said the people, who can’t be identified because the
discussions aren’t public.  Deutsche Boerse’s chairman Manfred Gentz said he finds it
“difficult to comprehend” how European regulators can block a
deal that’s driven by global competition and will benefit the
region.  “It is neither frivolous megalomania nor a striving for
anti-competitive dominance that pushes us to fight for the
merger between our company and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,” Gentz said at
the same reception. “It is against the backdrop of markets that
can no longer be viewed as national or local or regional, but as
global.”  NYSE and Deutsche Boerse appealed directly to commission
President Jose Manuel Barroso earlier this month to salvage
their merger, arguing that if the commission stops the deal, its
decision will harm European exchanges and drive business to
other parts of the world.  Duncan Niederauer , NYSE’s chief executive officer, and
Francioni are lobbying regulators and EU officials at the  World
Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland, this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  