-- Euro-Area Manufacturing, Services Expand
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-24T11:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/euro-area-manufacturing-unexpectedly-expands.html
European services and factory output
strengthened in January, led by a “robust” performance by
 Germany , as the region’s leaders work to find a solution to the
debt crisis.  A euro-area  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries rose to 50.4, a five-month high,
from 48.3 in December, London-based Markit Economics said in a
report today. Still, incoming new business fell and the increase
in output was partly due to companies reducing order backlogs.  European finance ministers continue talks today on crafting
a long-term fix to the region’s debt crisis after calling
yesterday on bondholders to provide greater debt relief to
Greece. While the turmoil has undermined the recovery, some
measures of investor and  consumer confidence  have improved and
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has said 2012 will
be a “much better” year.  There is “tentative evidence suggesting that the downturn
in the euro zone as a whole may be gradually bottoming out,”
said Martin Van Vliet, an economist at ING Group in Amsterdam.
“However, it is premature to start talking about green shoots
of recovery” and “any return to positive growth later this
year will likely be slow and gradual.”  Economists forecast that the composite PMI would rise to
48.5, according to the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Services Growth  A gauge of euro-region  manufacturing  rose to 48.7 from
46.9, Markit said. A measure of services climbed to a five-month
high of 50.5 from 48.8. Indexes of new business and backlogs
fell in both industries.  The euro rose against the dollar after the report was
published before erasing its gain. It traded at $1.3001 as of
11:02 a.m. in London, down 0.1 percent from yesterday.  European finance ministers pushed bondholders to provide
greater debt relief for  Greece  after a meeting in Brussels
yesterday, denting newfound confidence in Europe’s strategy for
coping with the debt crisis.  European  stocks  fell from a five-month high amid the
stalemate. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  retreated 1 percent, while
Germany’s DAX Index dropped 1.1 percent. Standard & Poor’s 500
Index futures lost 0.5 percent.  The decline in S&P 500 futures indicated the U.S. gauge
will retreat from the highest level since July. The Richmond
Federal Reserve Bank is due to release its  manufacturing-sector
activity survey  for December at 10 a.m. New York time.  Staying Cautious  German manufacturing expanded in January for the first time
in four months and services growth accelerated, according to a
separate release from Markit. The composite index of both
industries reached a seven-month high. In  France , manufacturing
contracted at a faster pace this month and services
strengthened.  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said
while the euro-area economy “appears to have stabilized” he
remains “cautious about the improvement.”  “If  Europe  incurs only a relatively mild recession that
would obviously be good news for how the European debt crisis
might play out,” said Stella Wang, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in London. “However, we would caution against
too much optimism at this stage.”  Elsewhere in Europe, Britain’s budget deficit narrowed more
than economists forecast in December, slipping to 13.7 billion
pounds from 15.9 billion pounds a year earlier. Gilts rose, with
the 10-year yield falling 2 basis points to 2.14 percent.  Bank
of England  Governor  Mervyn King  is scheduled to speak at 8 p.m.
today in Brighton, England.  Japan ’s Deficit  Japan’s government said today it will probably miss its
goal of balancing the budget by 2020 even with its proposed
doubling of the  sales tax , as the country’s central bank cut its
2012 growth forecast. The Asian country’s primary budget
deficit, which excludes the cost of servicing debt, will be the
equivalent of 3.1 percent of gross domestic product for the year
through March 2021, the Cabinet Office said.  The  Bank of Japan  cut its growth projection for the year
starting April 1 to 2 percent from 2.2 percent. The central bank
kept its asset-buying fund at 20 trillion yen ($260 billion),
and its credit-lending program at 35 trillion yen.  Among other economic releases today, India’s central bank
cut the  cash reserve ratio  to 5.5 percent from 6 percent and
signaled future cuts. The  International Monetary Fund  will
unveil revisions to its World Economic Outlook at 10 a.m. in
 Washington . Without giving specific estimates, IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday in Berlin that “we
will lower growth forecasts for most parts of the world.”  German ‘Standstill’  Growth in Germany may have come to a “standstill” in the
fourth quarter and “slightly negative growth can’t be ruled
out,” the Bundesbank said yesterday. Germany’s statistics
office said Jan. 11 the economy probably shrank about 0.25
percent in the final three months of last year. Spain’s central
bank estimated yesterday that its economy shrank in the fourth
quarter. Euro-area industrial orders fell 1.3 percent in
November, according to a report today.  Still,  consumer confidence  in the euro area unexpectedly
rose this month, the Brussels-based European Commission said
yesterday. Germany’s Ifo index of  business sentiment  also
probably increased, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists. The Ifo institute will publish the data tomorrow.  Alstom SA (ALO) , the maker of power equipment and trains, on Jan.
19 reported quarterly sales that fell short of analyst
estimates. Still, the company forecast “marked progress” in
fiscal fourth-quarter sales on growth in  emerging markets .  The ECB has cut  interest rates  twice since November and
offered banks unlimited loans for three years to prevent a
credit crunch.  “I am confident that the euro will be in better shape in
2012,” Draghi said on Jan. 19. “I look at the progress that
has been achieved on the two root causes of the situation,
namely lack of fiscal discipline and lack of structural
reform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  