-- Euro-Region Debt Crisis Spells Bank Risk in East, EBRD Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-01-24T13:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/euro-crisis-spells-east-europe-bank-risk-development-bank-says.html
An escalating euro-region debt 
crisis would pose a “substantial” risk to the banking industry 
in eastern Europe, the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development said.  The EBRD revised its 2012 growth forecast for the 29 east
European and central Asian nations in which it invests to 3.1
percent from 3.2 percent in October, the London-based
development bank said in a report released today. Gross domestic
product growth is slowing from about 4.8 percent last year, the
EBRD said.  Eastern Europe’s recovery from the 2009 economic slump has
been obstructed by Europe’s debt crisis through trade and
banking links. Western European lenders, including as  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , which control
about three-quarters of the region’s banking industry, are
selling assets and raising capital to meet more stringent
capital and liquidity requirements, curtailing credit to
households and businesses in the east.  “While the most recent available GDP and other output
measures do not at this point show clear signs of a euro-zone
slowdown spreading in the region, financial sector, capital
flows and leading indicators paint a gloomier picture,” the
EBRD said. “Worryingly for the central Europe and Baltics and
southeastern Europe regions, western bank deleveraging appears
to be under way since the autumn.”  Western Deleveraging  The EBRD is working with the  International Monetary Fund  to
estimate the extent of the expected deleveraging by western
parent banks and pinpoint the most pressing needs, said  Erik Berglof , the EBRD’s chief economist at a press conference in
London today.  “Keeping the same exposures is not realistic and maybe not
even desirable because the model needs to change,” said
Berglof. “We need to find out from the private sector what they
can contribute to ensure certainty and predictability in an
orderly deleveraging.”  To avoid a repeat of the aftermath of the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., when a sudden stop in capital
flows nearly triggered a banking crisis, the EBRD has called on
European leaders, regulators and banks in both the west and the
east to work more closely together to limit the risks.  The lender has supported reviving the Vienna Initiative,
which in 2008-2009 helped avert a region-wide crisis by
persuading western banks to roll over funding for their eastern
units and inject fresh capital if needed.  ‘External Assistance’  The IMF, the EBRD, the  World Bank  and the  European
Investment Bank , which spent $42 billion in 2009-10 to help
maintain the flow of credit to businesses, should “stand ready
to provide external assistance and financial support to banks”
in eastern  Europe , the Vienna Initiative group of lenders and
regulators said in a statement after a meeting in the Austrian
capital on Jan. 16.  This time around “it’s not realistic to expect large
packages,” Berglof said. “It’s about targeted intervention.”
The EBRD has maintained “a crisis response level” of spending
for the past three years, he added.  The EBRD last year invested 9 billion euros across the
region, nearly doubling its spending from about 5 billion euros
($6.5 billion) in 2008.  Avoid Systemic Problems  “In the deleveraging process some banks will identify
their strategic markets and from the non-strategic ones they
will withdraw, this is natural,”  Piroska Nagy , director of
country strategy and policy at the EBRD said in a Jan. 18
interview in Vienna. “Our role together with the home and host
regulators and fiscal authorities is to see how that can be
managed in a way that does not cause a systemic problem.”  Every country in central Europe, the Baltic economies and
all Balkan nations except for Bulgaria had net bank-related
cross-border outflows, the EBRD said in the report.  “This suggests that transmission of the euro-zone crisis
to the region via bank subsidiaries may have already begun in
the fall of 2011, with further negative impact on credit and
possibly growth,” the EBRD said.  Credit growth when adjusted for inflation has been “very
weak or negative” since late summer in most of central Europe,
the Baltic countries and southeastern Europe, the EBRD said.
Lending has been the weakest in Croatia, Estonia, Hungary,
Slovenia, Bulgaria and Macedonia, the ex-Yugoslav republic, the
 development bank  said.  Capital Outflows  While non-performing loan levels remained high in the
region, loan-to-deposit ratios are coming down, signaling a
shift to a “healthier” lending model, the EBRD said.  Austria  last November told its three biggest banks, which
collectively are the largest lenders in eastern Europe, to limit
lending in eastern Europe to 1.1 times the funding they can
raise locally.  East Europe had net capital outflows in the third quarter
of last year, for the first time since the first quarter of
2009, as the deepening euro-region crisis prompted investors to
shun riskier  emerging markets , the EBRD said. Hungary’s  BUX
stock Index (BUX)  has lost 13 percent since June,  Poland ’s  WIG-20
Index (WIG)  has declined 17 percent and  Turkey ’s  ISE National 30 Index 
has dropped 9 percent.  Recession Forecasts  Industrial and confidence indicators have weakened in
recent quarters, a sign of “an impending economic slowdown,”
the EBRD said.  Slovenia and Hungary are forecast to slide into a recession
this year. Hungary’s contraction will be the deepest at 1.5
percent and the Slovenian economy will shrink 1.1 percent, the
EBRD said.  The central and Baltic region will expand at a 1.4 percent
rate from 3.4 percent last year. Growth in southeastern Europe
will be 1 percent, from 2.2 percent last year. Poland will
expand 2.3 percent, down from 4.2 percent last year, the EBRD
predicted.  Russia  and other former Soviet Union countries are most at
risk from lower commodity prices triggered by a weaker global
economy, the EBRD said.  Under a base-case scenario, growth in Russia “will remain
reasonably strong and will support expansion even in the non-
commodity exporting countries of the  Commonwealth of Independent
States , which depend on Russia for exports and remittances,”
the EBRD said. Russia will grow 4 percent, from 4.2 percent last
year, the EBRD forecast. Ukraine’s expansion will be half last
year’s at 2.5 percent, the EBRD said.  The EBRD, owned by 61 countries and two intergovernmental
institutions, was created in 1991 to invest in former communist
countries to help them transform their economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  