-- Mexico’s Presidential Front-Runner Extends Slide in Polls
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-01-24T21:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/mexico-s-presidential-front-runner-extends-slide-in-polls-1-.html
Enrique Pena Nieto,  Mexico ’s leading
presidential candidate, saw his support slip for the third
consecutive poll by Consulta Mitofsky after a series of campaign
blunders.  Backing for the candidate of the once dominant
 Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, slid to 41 percent in
the Jan. 14-18 poll from 42 percent in December, Mitofsky said
in an e-mailed report. While the decline was within the 3.1
percentage point margin of error, it brings the drop in his
support since October to six points.  The former Mexico state governor enjoyed double the
approval of any other candidate until he struggled in December
to name three books that influenced him and did not know the
price of tortillas in Mexico. The public gaffs are undercutting
Pena Nieto’s popularity and should be a wakeup call to his
campaign, said Javier Oliva, a political science professor at
the Mexican National Autonomous University.  “He is much more exposed to the observation of the media
than when he was governor,” Oliva said by phone from Mexico
City. “Political parties and presidential candidates are not
considering the Twitter and Facebook communities, where
criticism of Pena Nieto has been much harsher than in the
media.”  The poll was taken before a Jan. 22 El Universal interview
with Pena Nieto, in which he admitted to having two children out
of wedlock during his first marriage.  That revelation will “affect his current image in the
media as the good guy, the well-behaved, handsome man who loves
his children,” Oliva said.  Rival Candidates  Support for Josefina Vazquez Mota, who may become the
candidate for the ruling  National Action Party , or PAN, in
February, was 23 percent compared with 21 percent in December,
Mitofsky said.  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of the Party of the
Democratic Revolution, or PRD, garnered 18 percent support from
17 percent last month.  On Dec. 3, Pena Nieto struggled when asked by journalists
at a literary fair to name three books that influenced him,
finally identifying the Bible and attributing a book by Carlos
Fuentes to another author.  A week later, in an interview with the Spanish newspaper El
Pais, he didn’t know the price of tortillas, and justified his
lack of knowledge by saying he isn’t “the woman of the
household.” He later said that he was referring to his “family
context” and that the remarks shouldn’t be taken as an attack
on women.  The Mitofsky survey polled 1,000 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 