-- Fitch to Release Mortgage Models as Lewis Ranieri’s Shellpoint Complains
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-01-24T15:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/fitch-will-release-mortgage-models-as-ranieri-lender-complains-of-impact.html
Fitch Ratings  is planning to share
its grading model for U.S. home-loan bonds with issuers and
investors as industry pioneer Lewis Ranieri’s lender complains
that credit-ranking firms are hindering the market’s recovery.  Fitch knows that releasing its model publicly to be more
transparent may allow issuers to exploit flaws in its analysis,
so the firm will address this risk by making more
“qualitative” assessments than before the financial
crisis, said Grant Bailey, a managing director at the firm.  “It’s something we’re conscious of,” Bailey said
yesterday during a panel discussion at the American
Securitization Forum’s annual conference in  Las Vegas .  Issuance of bonds backed by new  U.S. home loans  without
government backing has slumped to less than $1.5 billion since
mid-2008, after peaking at about $1.2 trillion in each of 2005
and 2006. The boom in sales, fueled in part by inflated ratings,
helped create a  housing bubble . That sparked the worst financial
meltdown since the Great Depression, leaving government-backed
lending financing about 90 percent of new residential loans.  Saul Sanders, co-chief executive officer of Shellpoint
Partners LLC, a lender owned partly by Ranieri Partners, said
yesterday that rating companies are being too tough and
unpredictable, stifling the private  mortgage-bond market .  Ranieri, chairman of Uniondale, New York-based Ranieri
Partners, helped create the mortgage-securities market in the
1980s at Salomon Brothers Inc., where he was vice chairman.  Rating firms are demanding more protection for investors
against losses even amid safer lending and depressed property
prices, Sanders said. When his firm recently showed a pool of
loans to six different rating entities, the so-called credit
enhancement they said they might demand varied by 80 percent, he
said.  Opaque ‘New Paradigm’  “It’s very difficult from the origination side to
understand what the new paradigm is,” Sanders said during a
separate panel discussion.  Because issuers aren’t sure what grades potential deals
will get, lenders don’t know exactly what to charge on loans
intended for securitizations, said  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s
Peter Sack. While that confusion is impeding the private
mortgage securitization market’s recovery, it is not the biggest
constraint. Lenders are instead choosing to sell loans more
profitably through government-supported programs or to banks, he
said.  Securitization “is not the most economical thing to do,”
said Sack, co-head of real estate and mortgage finance at Credit
Suisse, speaking on a panel with Fitch’s Bailey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  