-- Foye Sees ‘Peace Dividend’ After World Trade Center Completion
-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 2012-01-24T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/foye-sees-peace-dividend-after-world-trade-center-completion.html
Substantial completion of the  World
Trade Center site  will result in a “peace dividend” that can
be invested in the  Port Authority  of New York and  New Jersey ’s
“core transportation assets,” said Patrick J. Foye, who was
confirmed as executive director of the authority in October.  He also discussed the role of government in developing real
estate and the focus of the Port Authority for today’s Bloomberg
Brief: Municipal Market newsletter:  Q. There’s been some turnover in your position. How long
would you like to stay in the job?  A. The Port Authority has had seven executive directors in
the last 10 years. For an organization focused on the long-term
and long-lived assets, that’s not healthy and it’s not good for
our region. I’d like to serve as long as I’m effective and enjoy
the confidence of  New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  and the Port board.  Q. Had the Port Authority gotten away from its core mission
in recent years?  A. To some extent, yes. Government is not a natural, or
particularly gifted, real-estate developer. That’s why the
decision to add the Durst Organization as a partner in 1WTC and,
we expect, Westfield as a partner in WTC retail, itself an
extraordinarily valuable asset, was important in bringing the
best of the private sector to these assets.  Greater focus on airports, bridges, tunnels, ports and PATH
will benefit the region and the Port Authority. I believe that
substantial completion of the World Trade Center site will
result in a “peace dividend” which after debt service incurred
for the World Trade Center will yield substantial amounts for
investment in our core transportation assets.  Q. What’s the authority’s biggest challenge now?  A. Among our greatest challenges is weathering the travails
of today’s economy, paying close attention to return on
investment, treating our customers as modern consumers expect,
meeting our commitments to our bondholders and maintaining a
focus on the future of the region. We must also realize that in
today’s economy, our toll-paying customers are experiencing the
financial stresses of today’s economy and that we must squeeze
maximum value out of every dollar. [Editor’s Note: Foye voted
against the MTA fare increase in 2010 as a member of the MTA
Board.]  Q. Will “the fourth jetport” idea first floated back in
1959 be resurrected?  A. We’re focused on the five we have: JFK, LaGuardia,
Newark, Stewart and Teterboro, thank you very much. Our plan is
to invest substantial amounts in our airports, which are one of
the major engines of the regional economy.  Q. What about public-private partnership efforts?  A. The Port Authority will be a leader in exploring uses of
private capital, design/build and other capital-raising and
risk-shedding techniques.  We’re committed to moving the Goethals Bridge project
forward.  Foye also cited projects including LaGuardia’s Central
Terminal Building and Newark Terminal A.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Mysak  in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net . 