-- Google Faces EU Antitrust Complaint From French Shopping Website
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-24T14:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/french-website-files-google-antitrust-complaint-with-eu.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  faces an antitrust
complaint at the European Commission from  Twenga , a French
shopping-comparison website, which says the world’s largest
search engine may have abused a dominant position.  Bastien Duclaux, chief executive officer of Paris, France-
based Twenga, said Google’s services “should not benefit from
any privileged treatment” in the company’s search rankings. He
said Google updates since late 2010 have demoted Twenga in favor
of Google’s own shopping comparison service.  The EU is investigating Google over claims it discriminated
against other services in its search results and stopped some
websites from accepting rival ads.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and shopping-
comparison site Foundem are among companies that asked the
agency to examine the  Mountain View , California-based search
engine.  The European Commission received the complaint from Twenga
yesterday, Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the Brussels-based
regulator, said in an e-mail. Al Verney, a spokesman for Google
in Brussels, declined to comment.  Google has “applied several algorithms last year and very
recently in order to penalize these kind of products in the
search results,” Duclaux said in a telephone interview.
“Twenga lost more than 30 percent of its audience during the
course of August.”  Duclaux said Google may also tweak the so-called quality
score of websites to demote rival advertising platforms. The
score helps set ad prices for the AdWords advertising program.  Google  said  in February that updates to the search engine
were intended to favor “high quality sites” with “original
content and information such as research, in-depth reports,
thoughtful analysis and so on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 