-- General Electric Loses IRS Appeal on Dutch Bank Tax Benefits
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-01-24T22:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/general-electric-co-loses-appeal-on-irs-tax-benefits-case.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  lost a U.S.
challenge of its 2009 victory in a battle with the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service over tax benefits from a partnership structure
with Dutch banks.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York  today reversed an
October 2009 ruling by a federal judge in  Connecticut  that
concluded GE’s arrangement with a group of Dutch banks in the
1990s was legitimate. In its ruling today, the court said that
the IRS properly imposed a monetary penalty against a General
Electric subsidiary for substantially understating its income
taxes for 1997 and 1998.  GE, the world’s largest lessor of aircraft, set up the
Castle Harbour partnership in 1993 with Dutch banks including
ING Bank NV and Rabo Merchant Bank NV. Under the terms of the
transaction, the GE subsidiary received most of the actual
leasing income. For tax purposes, 98 percent of the taxable
income was allocated to the banks and was not subject to U.S.
income taxes.  “The Court of Appeals holds that the evidence compels the
conclusion that the banks do not qualify,” the three-judge
appeals panel said in today’s ruling. “The government is
entitled to impose a penalty on the taxpayer for substantial
understatement of income.”  Airplanes  The arrangement shifted about $310 million in income from
leases on old airplanes to the banks and saved GE about $62
million over a five-year period.  The IRS subsequently determined that the arrangement was a
“sham,” and Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE paid the
government the $62 million, according to a 2009 ruling. The
partnership then sued to challenge the IRS claim that the
partnership structure had no business purpose other than
reducing tax expenses.  The federal appeals court has twice rejected the lower
court’s view of the case. In 2006, the panel reversed U.S.
District Judge Stefan R. Underhill’s 2004 ruling that concluded
the banks were valid partners and sent the case back to him for
reconsideration.  Underhill also found in favor of GE in 2009, ruling that
the IRS couldn’t impose a penalty upon the subsidiary. The IRS
appealed.  ‘Complex Disguises’  In today’s ruling, the federal appeals court panel said the
Dutch banks weren't valid partners in Castle Harbour under the
 tax code . The federal appeals court also said the IRS could
impose penalties against the GE subsidiary, known as TIFD III-E.  “This decision shows that our courts will not allow large
corporations to use complex disguises to get improper tax
breaks,” John DiCicco, acting assistant attorney general for
the  Justice Department ’s Tax Division, said in a statement. “In
fact, companies that avoid paying their fair share of the tax
burden by engaging in these types of games are setting
themselves up for substantial penalties in addition to the taxes
they should have paid in the first place.”  “We are disappointed that the Court of Appeals overturned
the trial court’s most recent favorable decision,” GE said in
an e-mailed statement. “This new ruling has no impact on GE’s
current operations, nor will it have any adverse financial
impact. We continue to analyze the court’s opinion and our
options.”  The case is TIFD II-D Inc. v.  United States of America , 10-
70, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 