-- German Stocks Retreat; Siemens Drops as Earnings Miss Estimates
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r
-- 2012-01-24T17:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/german-stocks-retreat-as-siemens-banks-decline-utilities-rwe-eon-gain.html
German stocks  declined as  Siemens AG (SIE) 
reported earnings that missed estimates and a meeting of euro-
area finance ministers finished without making progress on a
debt-swap deal for Greece’s private creditors.  Siemens fell 1.3 percent after Europe’s largest engineering
company said achieving its full-year goals has become harder as
the sovereign-debt crisis weighs on the economy.  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  slid more than 1.5 percent. EON AG and  RWE
AG (RWE) , Germany’s biggest utilities, rose.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 0.3 percent to 6,419.22 at the close
in Frankfurt, paring an earlier decline of as much as 1.5
percent. The broader HDAX Index fell 0.4 percent today.  “It’s a little bit of profit taking, combined with a
little bit of disappointment,”  Neil Smith , an analyst at  WestLB
AG (WESTLB)  in Dusseldorf, said.  Euro-area policy makers have no deadline for Greece to
conclude its talks with private bondholders on a debt swap that
both the parties broadly agreed to in October, two euro-region
officials said last night.  Finance ministers balked at putting up more taxpayer funds.
The debt swap aims to cut 100 billion euros ($130 billion) from
the 205 billion euros of privately owned Greek debt, said the
officials, who declined to be identified because the discussions
are private.  Greece’s Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said today
that the government intends to wrap up debt-swap talks with
private investors by Feb. 1.  Siemens, Deutsche Bank  Siemens slid 1.3 percent to 77.39 euros. Net income from
continuing operations in the fiscal first quarter fell 27
percent to 1.36 billion euros, the company said. That missed the
 average estimate  of 1.47 billion euros in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts. New orders also declined, making this year’s targets
harder to reach, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said.  Deutsche Bank dropped 1.8 percent to 32.90 euros, while
Commerzbank fell 2.8 percent to 1.89 euros.  A gauge of banking shares was among the worst performers of
the 19 industry groups on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index , falling 1
percent. Societe Generale SA, France’s second-largest lender,
and Credit Agricole SA had their ratings downgraded to A from
A+, with a stable outlook, Standard & Poor’s said yesterday.  EON and RWE rose 0.6 percent to 15.97 euros and 2 percent
to 26.82 euros, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Riffler in  Frankfurt  at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  