-- German Man Faces New Charges in Los Angeles Arson Spree, Prosecutors Say
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-01-24T23:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/german-man-faces-new-charges-in-los-angeles-arson-spree-prosecutors-say.html
Prosecutors added 63 more arson
counts against a German man accused of setting 49 fires in a
four-day spree after his mother was arrested and jailed pursuant
to a German extradition request.  Harry Burkhart, 24, is now charged with 100 arson-related
counts and could be sentenced to as long as 80 years in prison
if he’s convicted, according to a statement today from the  Los
Angeles  district attorney’s office.  Through his lawyer, Burkhart pleaded not guilty to the
charges at an arraignment hearing today. Los Angeles Superior
Court Judge Upinder Kalra set bail for $7.5 million.  The fires caused more than $3 million in damage, Los
Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa said Jan. 2. Burkhart, a
German citizen born in Chechnya, is accused of putting
incendiary devices under the engines of cars, many of which were
parked in the carports of apartment buildings.  Burkhart allegedly went on the rampage after a Dec. 29
hearing in Los Angeles federal court for his mother, Dorothee
Burkhart. The fires started early Dec. 30 and lasted until Jan.
2, when Burkhart was arrested.  Burkhart’s mother had been arrested the morning of Dec. 29
at  Germany ’s request. German authorities accuse her of fraud,
including not paying for a 2004 breast augmentation. She’s being
held in federal prison without bail until her extradition
hearing.  Los Angeles prosecutors said at a Jan. 5 hearing that
Burkhart experimented with ways of setting the fires and got
more sophisticated. When police searched his residence, they
found newspaper articles about the fires from the Los Angeles
Times as well as articles from German newspapers about similar
car fires in  Frankfurt  in September, according to a court
filing.  The case is People v. Burkhart, BA392381, Los Angeles
County Superior Court (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  