-- Ghizzoni Rights Offer Gamble May Win Reprieve for UniCredit
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-01-25T17:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-24/ghizzoni-gambling-on-9-8-billion-rights-offer-wins-reprieve-for-unicredit.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  Chief Executive
Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  is buying time to rescue Italy’s
biggest bank as the country teeters on the brink of recession.  The lender, which will complete a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.8
billion) rights offer Jan. 27, received preliminary indications
that individual investors will subscribe to almost all the stock
available, two people briefed on the transaction said. UniCredit
is also offering to buy back as much as 3 billion euros of bonds
to boost capital.  Ghizzoni, 56, bet investors would recognize that the bank’s
valuation, at a 23-year low this month, doesn’t reflect its
potential after the  European Central Bank ’s record cash
injections last month. If the rights offer is successful,
Ghizzoni will be able to meet regulators’ demand that his bank
raise 8 billion euros of capital. If he fails, the lender may be
forced to unravel some of the $60 billion of acquisitions it
made in the past decade or face nationalization.  “Italy had dropped into the dirty-laundry basket, and
confidence is now returning, thanks to the ECB’s commitment of
unlimited access to funds,” said Guy de Blonay, a London-based
 fund manager  at Jupiter Asset Management Plc. Failure to raise
capital would result in “the equity value going down to zero,
and the lender would be taken over by the government.”  Record Loss  UniCredit, which posted a record 10.6 billion-euro loss in
the third quarter, is tapping shareholders for the third time in
as many years after European regulators imposed higher capital
targets as  government bonds  plummeted. The bank owns about 39
billion euros of debt issued by Italy, the second-most indebted
nation in the European Union.  UniCredit offered today to repurchase Tier 1 and Tier 2
bonds from investors, who have until Feb. 3 to accept the offer.
They will receive 50 percent to 87 percent of the face value,
depending on the securities.  “It’s another step to recapitalize itself,” aimed at
boosting the core capital ratio, analysts at Banca Akros wrote
in a note. “We were expecting such moves by the Italian banks
to optimize their capital positions,” they said.  UniCredit rose 4.8 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 3.80 euros in
Milan trading today, valuing the company at 22 billion euros.  To entice investors, Ghizzoni promised a reorganization
intended to cut costs and boost profitability as the Milan-based
bank focuses on four core countries: Italy,  Germany , Austria and
Poland. The lender said it plans to eliminate 6,150 jobs in
 Europe  through 2015, about 4 percent of the worldwide total, and
wind down 48 billion euros of  non-strategic assets , including
commodity divisions in  Asia  and the U.S. It closed its European
stock-trading and research unit in November.  Government Aid   “A rights offer is basically the only thing UniCredit
could do to survive,” said Matthias Fankhauser, a fund manager
at Clariden Leu in Zurich. “In the current environment, it will
be very difficult for them to sell assets.”  A spokeswoman for UniCredit in  Rome  declined to comment.  Regulators demanded that lenders boost capital to protect
against future financial crises and achieve a core Tier 1 ratio
of 9 percent by June. Failing to raise the funds privately by
that date would leave lenders no option other than seeking
government aid, according to the  European Banking Authority .  Ghizzoni, who became CEO in September 2010, is seeking 1.5
billion euros in savings by 2015, mostly in Western Europe, as
he aims to restore annual profit to 6.5 billion euros and boost
return on tangible equity to about 12 percent, up from 3.6
percent in 2010. UniCredit’s five-year average return on equity
of 7.9 percent is about half the 14.6 percent median of the 43
companies tracked by the  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index .  Italy to  Kazakhstan   Under the leadership of corporate and investment-banking
chief Jean Pierre Mustier, the former head of  Societe Generale
SA (GLE) ’s investment-banking business, UniCredit is seeking to
increase fees it receives from corporate borrowers by selling
them more investment-banking services.  “The new business plan could create a second opportunity
for a turnaround,” Deutsche Bank AG analysts wrote in a note to
clients Jan. 17.  Ghizzoni is trying to salvage acquisitions made by his
predecessor,  Alessandro Profumo , including Germany’s HVB Group
and Rome-based Capitalia SpA. The lender, whose reach stretches
from Italy to Kazakhstan, had to write down 8.7 billion euros of
goodwill on the purchases and its investment-banking unit in the
third quarter, triggering the record loss.  Second Recession  “Ghizzoni has gained time to reorganize and improve
efficiency after the wave of purchases,” said Maurizio Binelli,
chief investment officer at Marzotto SIM SpA in Milan. “By
being present in many countries, UniCredit could benefit from a
greater fiscal and economic integration.”  Investors last year pushed UniCredit’s shares 59 percent
lower as threats to the euro region’s currency union raised
concern that the bank’s holdings of Italian sovereign debt
threatened its stability. UniCredit told investors in the
 prospectus  for its rights offer that they should weigh the
possibility the euro may be abandoned.  Italy  is poised to enter its second recession in three
years. The economy may contract as much as 1.5 percent this year
in a worst-case scenario, the  Bank of Italy  said Jan. 17. The
country’s credit rating was cut two levels Jan. 13 by  Standard &
Poor’s , which said “a difficult external financing environment
will have negative implications for growth performance.”  Investors are being offered two new shares of UniCredit at
1.943 euros each for every one they already hold. That’s 48
percent below yesterday’s closing price of 3.752 euros in Milan
trading indicating shareholders will probably exercise their
rights to reap immediate gains.  Individual Investors  Individual investors in Italy already have ordered 98
percent of the stock available to them, according to the two
people with knowledge of the transaction who declined to be
identified because the matter is private.  Institutional shareholders  are divided. Aabar Investments
PJSC, the Abu Dhabi-based sovereign-wealth fund, said it plans
to increase its stake in UniCredit to 6.5 percent through the
rights offer, which would make it the bank’s biggest investor.
Capital Research & Management Co., a Los Angeles-based
investment fund, increased its stake to 5.4 percent, becoming
the second-largest investor.  Libya ’s central bank won’t increase
its 5 percent stake as it wants to focus its funds at home, Ali
Shanbish, head of planning at the country’s central bank, said
in an interview Jan. 22.  Banking Foundations  UniCredit’s oldest shareholders, the country’s banking
foundations, which hold more than 10 percent of the lender,
aren’t exercising all their rights to buy stock.  Fondazione Cariverona, owner of a 4.2 percent stake, said
last month that it won’t exercise its rights to buy shares in
full, while the Banco di Sicilia foundation, owner of a 0.3
percent holding, won’t buy any more stock in the offer, the
newspaper La Repubblica reported Jan. 8, citing Chairman
Giovanni Puglisi.  A group of 26 underwriters led by  Charlotte , North-Carolina
based  Bank of America Corp.  and Milan-based  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  have
agreed to buy any stock investors don’t buy, guaranteeing
UniCredit will raise the funds it’s seeking.  The stock sale, Italy’s biggest in almost three years, is
testing demand for banking stocks as  Greece  seeks an accord with
bondholders on a debt swap needed to secure a second financing
package for the cash-strapped country. The region’s finance
ministers on Jan. 24 declined to give Greece more public money
and called on bondholders to accept deeper losses, bringing the
debt negotiations to another stalemate. Failure to reach a deal
may yet scupper UniCredit’s offering.  “A failure to sell stock would have a negative impact on
the whole banking industry in terms of costs, and it would make
it much harder for the lenders to raise capital,” said Angelo Drusiani, who manages about 3 billion euros at Banca Albertini
Syz & C. in Milan. “There’s only a very small chance this would
happen. This is an excellent chance to invest in Italy at low
prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  